The words of Amos which came to 
him in Accarim out of Thecue, which he saw concerning Jerusalem, in the days 
of Ozias king of Juda, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joas king of 
Israel, two years before the earthquake.  And he said, The Lord has spoken out 
of Sion, and has uttered his voice out of Jerusalem; and the pastures of the 
shepherds have mourned, and the top of Carmel is dried up. And the Lord said, For three sins of 
Damascus, and for four, I will not turn away from it; because they sawed with 
iron saws the women with child of the Galaadites.  And I will send a fire on the house of Azael, and it shall devour 
the foundations of the son of Ader.  And I will break to pieces the bars of Damascus, and will destroy 
the inhabitants out of the plain of On, and will cut in pieces a tribe out of 
the men of Charrhan: and the famous people of Syria shall be led captive, saith 
the Lord.  Thus saith the Lord; For three sins of 
Gaza, and for four, I will not turn away from them; because they took prisoners 
the captivity of Solomon, to shut them up into Idumea.  And I will send forth a fire on the walls 
of Gaza, and it shall devour its foundations.  And I will destroy the inhabitants out of Azotus, and a tribe 
shall be cut off from Ascalon, and I will stretch out my hand upon Accaron: and 
the remnant of the Philistines shall perish, saith the Lord.  Thus saith the Lord; For three 
transgressions of Tyre, and for four, I will not turn away from it; because they 
shut up the prisoners of Solomon into Idumea, and remembered not the covenant of 
brethren.  And I will send forth a 
fire on the walls of Tyre, and it shall devour the foundations of it.  Thus saith the Lord; For three sins 
of Idumea, and for four, I will not turn away from them; because they pursued 
their brother with the sword, and destroyed the mother upon the earth, and 
summoned up his anger for a testimony, and kept up his fury to the end.  And I will send forth a fire upon 
Thaman, and it shall devour the foundations of her walls.  Thus saith the Lord; For three sins 
of the children of Ammon, and for four, I will not turn away from him; because 
they ripped up the women with child of the Galaadites, that they might widen 
their coasts.  And I will kindle a 
fire on the walls of Rabbath, and it shall devour her foundations with shouting 
in the day of war, and she shall be shaken in the days of her destruction:
 and her kings shall go into 
captivity, their priests and their rulers together, saith the Lord. Thus saith the Lord; For three sins 
of Moab, and for four, I will not turn away from it; because they burnt the 
bones of the king of Idumea to lime.  But I will send forth a fire on Moab, and it shall devour the 
foundations of its cities: and Moab shall perish in weakness, with a shout, and 
with the sound of a trumpet.  And I 
will destroy the judge out of her, and slay all her princes with him, saith the 
Lord.  Thus saith the Lord; For three sins of 
the children of Judah, and for four, I will not turn away from him; because they 
have rejected the law of the Lord, and have not kept his ordinances, and their 
vain idols which they made, which their fathers followed, caused them to 
err.  And I will send a fire on 
Juda, and it shall devour the foundations of Jerusalem.  Thus saith the Lord; for three sins of 
Israel, and for four, I will not turn away from him; because they sold the 
righteous for silver, and the poor for sandals,  wherewith to tread on the dust of the earth, and they have 
smitten upon the heads of the poor, and have perverted the way of the lowly: and 
a son and his father have gone into the same maid, that they might profane the 
name of their God.  And binding 
their clothes with cords they have made them curtains near the altar, and they 
have drunk wine gained by extortion in the house of their God. Nevertheless I cut off the Amorite 
from before them, whose height was as the height of a cedar, and he was strong 
as an oak; and I dried up his fruit from above, and his roots from beneath.
 And I brought you up out of the 
land of Egypt, and led you about in the desert forty years, that ye should 
inherit the land of the Amorites.  And I took of your sons for prophets, and of your young men for 
consecration. Are not these things so, ye sons of Israel? saith the Lord.  But ye gave the consecrated ones wine to 
drink; and ye commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not.  Therefore, behold, I roll under you, 
as a waggon full of straw is rolled.  And flight shall perish from the runner, and the strong shall not 
hold fast his strength, and the warrior shall not save his life:  and the archer shall not withstand, and 
he that is swift of foot shall in no wise escape; and the horseman shall not 
save his life.  And the strong 
shall find no confidence in power: the naked shall flee away in that day, saith 
the Lord. Hear ye this word, O house of 
Israel, which the Lord has spoken concerning you, and against the whole family 
whom I brought up out of the land of Egypt, saying,  You especially have I known out of all the families of the 
earth: therefore will I take vengeance upon you for all your sins.  Shall two walk together at all, if 
they do not know one another?  Will 
a lion roar out of his thicket if he has no prey? will a lion’s whelp 
utter his voice at all out of his lair, if he have taken nothing?  Will a bird fall on the earth without a 
fowler? will a snare be taken up from the earth without having taken anything?
 Shall the trumpet sound in the 
city, and the people not be alarmed? shall there be evil in a city which the 
Lord has not wrought?  For the Lord 
God will do nothing, without revealing instruction to his servants the prophets.
 A lion shall roar, and who will 
not be alarmed? the Lord God has spoken, and who will not prophesy? Proclaim it to the regions among the 
Assyrians, and to the regions of Egypt, and say, Gather yourselves to the 
mountain of Samaria, and behold many wonderful things in the midst of it, and 
the oppression that is in it.  And 
she knew not what things would come against her, saith the Lord, even 
those that store up wrong and misery in their countries.  Therefore thus saith the Lord God; O Tyre, thy land 
shall be made desolate round about thee; and he shall bring down thy 
strength out of thee, and thy countries shall be spoiled.  Thus saith the Lord; As when a shepherd rescues from 
the mouth of a lion two legs or a piece of an ear, so shall be drawn forth the 
children of Israel who dwell in Samaria in the presence of a foreign 
tribe, and in Damascus.  Hear, O ye priests, and testify to 
the house of Jacob, saith the Lord God Almighty.  For in the day wherein I shall take vengeance of the sins of 
Israel upon him, I will also take vengeance on the altars of Bethel: and the 
horns of the altar shall be broken down, and they shall fall upon the ground.
 I will crush and smite the 
turreted-house upon the summer-house; and the ivory-houses shall be destroyed, 
and many other houses also, saith the Lord. Hear ye this word, ye heifers of the 
land of Basan that are in the mountain of Samaria, that oppress the poor, and 
trample on the needy, which say to their masters, Give us that we may drink.
 The Lord swears by his holiness, 
that, behold, the days come upon you, when they shall take you with weapons, and 
fiery destroyers shall cast those with you into boiling caldrons.  And ye shall be brought forth naked in 
the presence of each other; and ye shall be cast forth on the mountain Romman, 
saith the Lord.  Ye went into Bethel, and sinned, and 
ye multiplied sin at Galgala; and ye brought your meat-offerings in the morning,
and your tithes every third day.  And they read the law without, and called for public professions: 
proclaim aloud that the children of Israel have loved these things, saith the 
Lord. And I will give you dulness of teeth 
in all your cities, and want of bread in all your places: yet ye returned not to 
me, saith the Lord.  Also I 
withheld from you the rain three months before the harvest: and I will rain upon 
one city, and on another city I will not rain: one part shall be rained upon, 
and the part on which I shall not rain shall be dried up.  And the inhabitants of two or three cities shall 
be gathered to one city to drink water, and they shall not be satisfied: yet ye 
have not returned to me, saith the Lord.  I smote you with parching, and with blight: ye multiplied your 
gardens, your vineyards, and your fig-grounds, and the cankerworm devoured your 
olive-yards: yet not even thus did ye return to me, saith the Lord.
 I sent pestilence among you by 
the way of Egypt, and slew your young men with the sword, together with thy 
horses that were taken captive; and in my wrath against you I set fire to your 
camps: yet not even thus did ye return to me, saith the Lord.  I overthrew you, as God overthrew Sodoma 
and Gomorrha, and ye became as a brand plucked out of the fire: yet not even 
thus did ye return to me, saith the Lord.  Therefore thus will I do to thee, O 
Israel: nay because I will do thus to thee, prepare to call on thy God, O 
Israel.  For, behold, I am he that 
strengthens the thunder, and creates the wind, and proclaims to men his Christ, 
forming the morning and the darkness, and mounting on the high places of the 
earth, The Lord God Almighty is his name. Hear ye this word of the Lord, even 
a lamentation, which I take up against you. The house of Israel is fallen; it 
shall no more rise.  The virgin of 
Israel has fallen upon his land; there is none that shall raise her up.  Therefore thus saith the Lord God; The 
city out of which there went forth a thousand, in it there shall be left 
a hundred, and in that out of which there went forth a hundred, there 
shall be left ten to the house of Israel. Wherefore thus saith the Lord to the 
house of Israel, Seek ye me, and ye shall live.  But seek not Bethel, and go not into Galgala, and cross not over 
to the Well of the Oath: for Galgala shall surely go into captivity, and Bethel 
shall be as that which is not.  
Seek ye the Lord, and ye shall live; lest the house of Joseph blaze as fire, and 
it devour him, and there shall be none to quench it for the house of Israel.
 It is he that executes judgment 
in the height above, and he has established justice on the earth:  who makes all things, and changes them, 
and turns darkness into the morning, and darkens the day into night: who calls 
for the water of the sea, and pours it out on the face of the earth: the Lord is 
his name:  who dispenses ruin to 
strength, and brings distress upon the fortress.  They hated him that reproved in the 
gates, and abhorred holy speech.  
Therefore because they have smitten the poor with their fists, and ye have 
received of them choice gifts; ye have built polished houses, but ye shall not 
dwell in them; ye have planted desirable vineyards, but ye shall not drink the 
wine of them.  For I know your 
many transgressions, and your sins are great, trampling on the just, taking 
bribes, and turning aside the judgment of the poor in the gates.  Therefore the prudent shall be silent 
at that time; for it is a time of evils.  Seek good, and not evil, that ye may live: and so the Lord God 
Almighty shall be with you, as ye have said,  We have hated evil, and loved good: and restore ye judgment in 
the gates; that the Lord God Almighty may have mercy on the remnant of Joseph. Therefore thus saith the Lord God 
Almighty; In all the streets shall be lamentations; and in all the ways 
shall it be said, Woe, woe! the husbandman shall be called to mourning and 
lamentation, and to them that are skilled in complaining.  And there shall be lamentation in all the ways; 
because I will pass through the midst of thee, saith the Lord.  Woe to you that desire the day of the 
Lord! what is this day of the Lord to you? whereas it is darkness, and not 
light.  As if a man should flee 
from the face of a lion, and a bear should meet him; and he should spring into 
his house, and lean his hands upon the wall, and a serpent should bite him.
 Is not the day of the Lord 
darkness, and not light? and is not this day gloom without brightness? I hate, I reject your feasts, and I 
will not smell your meat-offerings in your general assemblies.  Wherefore if ye should bring me your 
whole-burnt-sacrifices and meat-offerings, I will not accept them: 
neither will I have respect to your grand peace-offerings.  Remove from me the sound of thy songs, 
and I will not hear the music of thine instruments.  But let judgment roll down as water, and righteousness as 
an impassable torrent.  Have ye 
offered to me victims and sacrifices, O house of Israel, forty years in the 
wilderness?  Yea, ye took up the 
tabernacle of Moloch, and the star of your god Raephan, the images of them which 
ye made for yourselves.  And I 
will carry you away beyond Damascus, saith the Lord, the Almighty God is his 
name. Woe to them that set at nought Sion, 
and that trust in the mountain of Samaria: they have gathered the harvest of 
the heads of the nations, and they have gone in themselves.  O house of Israel, pass by all of you, 
and see; and pass by thence to Ematrabba; and thence descend to Geth of the 
Philistines, the chief of all these kingdoms, see if their coasts are 
greater than your coasts.  Ye who are approaching the evil day, 
who are drawing near and adopting false sabbaths;  who sleep upon beds of ivory, and live delicately on their 
couches, and eat kids out of the flocks, and sucking calves out of the midst of 
the stalls;  who excel in the sound 
of musical instruments; they have regarded them as abiding, not as fleeting 
pleasures;  who drink strained 
wine, and anoint themselves with the best ointment; and have suffered nothing on 
occasion of the calamity of Joseph.  Therefore now shall they depart into captivity from the dominion 
of princes, and the neighing of horses shall be cut off from Ephraim. For the Lord has sworn by himself, 
saying, Because I abhor all the pride of Jacob, I do also hate his 
countries, and I will cut off his city with all who inhabit it.  And it shall come to pass, if there be 
ten men left in one house, that they shall die.  But a remnant shall be left behind, and their relations shall 
take them, and shall strenuously endeavor to carry forth their bones from the 
house: and one shall say to the heads of the house, Is there yet any one 
else with thee?   And he shall say, 
No one else. And the other shall say, Be silent, that thou name 
not the name of the Lord.   For, behold, the Lord commands, and 
he will smite the great house with breaches, and the little house with rents.
  Will horses run upon rocks? will they 
refrain from neighing at mares? for ye have turned judgment into poison, and the 
fruit of righteousness into bitterness:   
ye who rejoice at vanity, who say, Have we not possessed horns by our own 
strength?   For behold, O house of 
Israel, I will raise up against you a nation, saith the Lord of hosts; and they 
shall afflict you so that ye shall not enter into Æmath, and as it were from 
the river of the wilderness. Thus has the Lord God shewed me; 
and, behold, a swarm of locusts coming from the east; and, behold, one 
caterpillar, king Gog.  And it came 
to pass when he had finished devouring the grass of the land, that I said, Lord 
God, be merciful; who shall raise up Jacob? for he is small in number.  Repent, O Lord, for this. And this shall 
not be, saith the Lord.  Thus has the Lord shewed me; and, 
behold, the Lord called for judgment by fire, and it devoured the great deep, 
and devoured the Lord’s portion.  
Then I said, O Lord, cease, I pray thee: who shall raise up Jacob? for he is 
small in number. Repent, O Lord, for this.  This also shall not be, saith the Lord.  Thus the Lord shewed me; and behold, 
he stood upon a wall of adamant, and in his hand was an adamant.  And the Lord said to me, What seest thou, 
Amos? And I said, An adamant. And the Lord said to me, Behold, I appoint an 
adamant in the midst of my people Israel: I will not pass by them any more.
 And the joyful altars shall be 
abolished, and the sacrifices of Israel shall be set aside; and I will rise up 
against the house of Jeroboam with the sword. Then Amasias the priest of Bethel 
sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, Amos is forming conspiracies against 
thee in the midst of the house of Israel: the land will be utterly unable to 
bear all his words.  For thus says 
Amos, Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall be led away captive from 
his land.  And Amasias said to Amos, Go, seer, 
remove thou into the land of Juda, and live there, and thou shalt prophesy 
there:  but thou shalt no longer 
prophesy at Bethel: for it is the king’s sanctuary, and it is the royal house.
 And Amos answered, and said to 
Amasias, I was not a prophet, nor the son of a prophet; but I was a herdman, and 
a gatherer of sycamore fruits.  
And the Lord took me from the sheep, and the Lord said to me, Go, and prophesy 
to my people Israel.  And now hear 
the word of the Lord: Thou sayest, Prophesy not to Israel, and raise not a 
tumult against the house of Jacob.  Therefore thus saith the Lord; Thy wife shall be a harlot in the 
city, and thy sons and thy daughters shall fall by the sword, and thy land shall 
be measured with the line; and thou shalt die in an unclean land; and Israel 
shall be led captive out of his land. Thus has the Lord God shewed me. And behold a fowler’s basket.  And he said, What seest thou, Amos? And I 
said, A fowler’s basket. And the Lord said to me, The end is come upon my people 
Israel; I will not pass by them any more.  And the ceilings of the temple shall howl in that day, saith the 
Lord God: there shall be many a fallen one in every place; I will bring 
silence upon them. Hear now this, ye that oppress the 
poor in the morning, and drive the needy ones by tyranny from the earth,  saying, When will the month pass away, 
and we shall sell, and the sabbath, and we shall open the treasure, to make the 
measure small, and to enlarge the weight, and make the balance unfair?  That we may buy the poor for silver, and 
the needy for shoes; and we will trade in every kind of fruit.  The Lord swears against the pride of 
Jacob, None of your works shall ever be forgotten.  And shall not the land be troubled for these things, and 
shall not every one who dwells in it mourn? whereas destruction shall come up as 
a river, and shall descend as the river of Egypt.  And it shall come to pass in that day, 
saith the Lord God, that the sun shall go down at noon, and the light 
shall be darkened on the earth by day:  and I will turn your feasts into mourning, and all your songs 
into lamentation; and I will bring up sackcloth on all loins, and baldness on 
every head; and I will make them as the mourning of a beloved friend, and 
those with them as a day of grief. Behold, the days come, saith the 
Lord, that I will send forth a famine on the land, not a famine of bread, nor a 
thirst for water, but a famine of hearing the word of the Lord.  And the waters shall be troubled from 
sea to sea, and from the north to the east shall men run hither and 
thither, seeking the word of the Lord, and they shall not find it.  In that day shall the fair virgins and 
the young men faint for thirst;  
they who swear by the propitiation of Samaria, and who say, Thy god, O Dan, 
lives; and, Thy god, O Bersabee, lives; and they shall fall, and shall no more 
rise again. I saw the Lord standing on the 
altar: and he said, Smite the mercy-seat, and the porch shall be shaken: and cut 
through into the heads of all; and I will slay the remnant of them with the 
sword: no one of them fleeing shall escape, and no one of them, striving to save 
himself shall be delivered.  Though 
they hid themselves in hell, thence shall my hand drag them forth; and though 
they go up to heaven, thence will I bring them down.  If they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, thence will 
I search them out and take them; and if they should go down from my 
presence into the depths of the sea, there will I command the serpent, and he 
shall bite them.  And if they 
should go into captivity before the face of their enemies, there will I command 
the sword, and it shall slay them: and I will set mine eyes against them for 
evil, and not for good.  And the Lord, the Lord God Almighty,
is he that takes hold of the land, and causes it to shake, and all that 
inhabit it shall mourn; and its destruction shall go up as a river, and shall 
descend as the river of Egypt.  
It is he that builds his ascent up to the sky, and establishes his promise 
on the earth; who calls the water of the sea, and pours it out on the face of 
the earth; the Lord Almighty is his name.  Are not ye to me as the sons of the 
Ethiopians, O children of Israel? saith the Lord. Did I not bring Israel up out 
of the land of Egypt, and the Philistines from Cappadocia, and the Syrians out 
of the deep?  Behold, the eyes of 
the Lord God are upon the kingdom of sinners, and I will cut it off from the 
face of the earth; only I will not utterly cut off the house of Jacob, saith the 
Lord.  For I will give 
commandment, and sift the house of Israel among all the Gentiles, as corn 
is sifted in a sieve, and yet a fragment shall not in any wise fall upon 
the earth.  All the sinners of my 
people shall die by the sword, who say, Calamities shall certainly not draw 
near, nor come upon us. In that day I will raise up the 
tabernacle of David that is fallen, and will rebuild the ruins of it, and will 
set up the parts thereof that have been broken down, and will build it up as in 
the ancient days:  that the 
remnant of men, and all the Gentiles upon whom my name is called, may earnestly 
seek me, saith the Lord who does all these things.  Behold, the days come, saith the 
Lord, when the harvest shall overtake the vintage, and the grapes shall ripen at 
seedtime; and the mountains shall drop sweet wine, and all the hills shall be 
planted.  And I will turn the 
captivity of my people Israel, and they shall rebuild the ruined cities, and 
shall inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and shall drink the 
wine from them; and they shall form gardens, and eat the fruit of them.  And I will plant them on their land, and 
they shall no more be plucked up from the land which I have given them, saith 
the Lord God Almighty.