Now it came to pass in the thirtieth 
year, in the fourth month, on the fifth day of the month, that I was in the 
midst of the captivity by the river of Chobar; and the heavens were opened, and 
I saw visions of God.   On the fifth 
day of the month; this was the fifth year of the captivity of king Joakim.
  And the word of the Lord came to 
Jezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans, by the river 
of Chobar; and the hand of the Lord was upon me.  And I looked, and, behold, a sweeping 
wind came from the north, and a great cloud on it, and there was 
brightness round about it, and gleaming fire, and in the midst of it as it were 
the appearance of amber in the midst of the fire, and brightness in it.   And in the midst as it were the 
likeness of four living creatures. And this was their appearance; the likeness 
of a man was upon them.   And each 
one had four faces, and each one had four wings.   And their legs were straight; and their 
feet were winged, and there were sparks, like gleaming brass, and their 
wings were light.   And the hand of 
a man was under their wings on their four sides.   And the faces of them four turned not when they went; they went 
everyone straight forward.   And 
the likeness of their faces was the face of a man, and the face of a lion on the 
right of the four; and the face of a calf on the left of the four; and the face 
of an eagle to the four.   And the 
four had their wings spread out above; each one had two joined to one 
another, and two covered their bodies.   And each one went straight forward: wherever the spirit was going 
they went, and turned not back.   And in the midst of the living 
creatures there was an appearance as of burning coals of fire, as an 
appearance of lamps turning among the living creatures; and the brightness of 
fire, and out of the fire came forth lightning.   And I looked, and, behold, the 
four had each one wheel on the ground near the living creatures.   And the appearance of the wheels was as 
the appearance of beryl: and the four had one likeness: and their work was as it 
were a wheel in a wheel.   They 
went on their four sides: they turned not as they went;   neither did their backs turn: and they were high: 
and I beheld them, and the backs of them four were full of eyes round about.
  And when the living creatures went, 
the wheels went by them: and when the living creatures lifted themselves off the 
earth, the wheels were lifted off.   Wherever the cloud happened to be, there was the spirit ready to 
go: the wheels went and were lifted up with them; because the spirit of life was 
in the wheels.   When those went,
the wheels went; and when those stood, the wheels stood; and when 
those lifted themselves off the earth, they were lifted off with them: for the 
spirit of life was in the wheels.   And the likeness over the heads of 
the living creatures was as a firmament, as the appearance of crystal, spread 
out over their wings above.   And 
their wings were spread out under the firmament, reaching one to the other; two
wings to each, covering their bodies.   And I heard the sound of their wings when they went, as the sound 
of much water: and when they stood, their wings were let down.   And lo! a voice from above the 
firmament  that was over their 
head, there was as the appearance of a sapphire stone, and the 
likeness of a throne upon it: and upon the likeness of the throne was the 
likeness as an appearance of a man above.   And I saw as it were the resemblance of amber from the appearance 
of the loins and upwards, and from the appearance of the loins and under I saw 
an appearance of fire, and the brightness thereof round about.   As the appearance of the bow when it is 
in the cloud in days of rain, so was the form of brightness round about.  This was the appearance of the 
likeness of the glory of the Lord. And I saw and fell upon my face, and heard 
the voice of one speaking: and he said to me, Son of man, stand upon thy feet, 
and I will speak to thee.   And the 
Spirit came upon me, and took me up, and raised me, and set me on my feet: and I 
heard him speaking to me.   And he 
said to me, Son of Man, I send thee forth to the house of Israel, them that 
provoke me; who have provoked me, they and their fathers to this day.   And thou shalt say to them, Thus saith 
the Lord.   Whether then indeed they 
shall hear or fear, (for it is a provoking house,) yet they shall know that thou 
art a prophet in the midst of them.  And thou, son of man, fear them not, 
nor be dismayed at their face; (for they will madden and will rise up against 
thee round about, and thou dwellest in the midst of scorpions): be not afraid of 
their words, nor be dismayed at their countenance, for it is a provoking house.
  And thou shalt speak my words to 
them, whether they will hear or fear: for it is a provoking house.   And thou, son of man, hear him that 
speaks to thee; be not thou provoking, as the provoking house: open thy mouth, 
and eat what I give thee.   And I 
looked, and behold, a hand stretched out to me, and in it a volume of a book.
  And he unrolled it before me: and 
in it the front and the back were written upon: and there was written 
in it Lamentation, and mournful song, and woe.  And he said to me, Son of Man, eat 
this volume, and go and speak to the children of Israel.   So he opened my mouth, and caused me to eat the volume.
  And he said to me, Son of man,   thy mouth shall eat, and thy belly shall be filled with this 
volume that is given to thee. So I ate it; and it was in my mouth as sweet as 
honey.   And he said to me, Son of man, go thy 
way, and go in to the house of Israel, and speak my words to them.   For thou art not sent to a people of hard 
speech, but to the house of Israel;   neither to many nations of other speech and other tongues, nor of 
harsh language, whose words thou wouldest not understand: although if I had 
sent thee to such, they would have hearkened to thee.   But the house of Israel will not be willing to hearken to 
thee; for they will not hearken to me: for all the house of Israel are stubborn 
and hard-hearted.   And, behold, I 
have made thy face strong against their faces, and I will strengthen thy power 
against their power.   And it shall 
be continually stronger than a rock: be not afraid of them, neither be dismayed 
at their faces, because it is a provoking house.   And he said to me, Son of man, 
receive into thine heart all the words that I have spoken to thee, and hear 
them with thine ears.   And go 
thy way, go in to the captivity, to the children of thy people, and thou shalt 
speak to them, and say to them, Thus saith the Lord; whether they will hear, 
or whether they will forbear.   Then the Spirit took me up, and I 
heard behind me the voice as of a great earthquake, saying, 
Blessed be the glory of the Lord from his place.   And I perceived the sound of the wings of the living 
creatures clapping one to the other, and the sound of the wheels was near them, 
and the sound of the earthquake.   
And the Spirit lifted me, and took me up, and I went in the impulse of my 
spirit; and the hand of the Lord was mighty upon me.   Then I passed through the air and 
came into the captivity, and went round to them that dwelt by the river 
of Chobar who were there; and I sat there seven days, conversant in the midst of 
them.  And after the seven days the word of 
the Lord came to me, saying, Son of man,   I have made thee a watchman to the house of Israel; and thou 
shalt hear a word of my mouth, and shalt threaten them from me.   When I say to the wicked, Thou shalt 
surely die; and thou hast not warned him, to give warning to the wicked, to turn 
from his ways, that he should live; that wicked man shall die in his iniquity; 
but his blood will I require at thy hand.   But if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness, 
and from his way, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity, and thou shalt 
deliver thy soul.   And when the righteous turns away 
from his righteousness, and commits a trespass, and I shall bring punishment 
before him, he shall die, because thou didst not warn him: he shall even die in 
his sins, because his righteousness shall not be remembered; but his blood will 
I require at thine hand.   But if 
thou warn the righteous not to sin, and he sin not, the righteous shall surely 
live, because thou hast warned him; and thou shalt deliver thine own soul.  And the hand of the Lord came upon 
me; and he said to me, Arise, and go forth into the plain, and there shalt thou 
be spoken to.   And I arose, and went forth to the 
plain: and, behold, the glory of the Lord stood there, according to the vision, 
and according to the glory of the Lord, which I saw by the river of Chobar: and 
I fell on my face.   Then the 
Spirit came upon me, and set me on my feet, and spoke to me, and said to me, Go 
in, and shut thyself up in the midst of thine house.   And thou, son of man, behold, bonds are prepared for thee, 
and they shall bind thee with them, and thou shalt not come forth of the midst 
of them.   Also I will bind thy 
tongue, and thou shalt be dumb, and shalt not be to them a reprover: because it 
is a provoking house.   But when I 
speak to thee, I will open thy mouth, and thou shalt say to them, Thus saith the 
Lord, He that hears, let him hear; and he that is disobedient, let him be 
disobedient: because it is a provoking house.  And thou, son of man, take thee a 
brick, and thou shalt set it before thy face, and shalt portray on it the city,
even Jerusalem.   And thou 
shalt besiege it, and build works against it, and throw up a mound round about 
it, and pitch camps against it, and set up engines round about.   And take thou to thyself an iron pan, and 
thou shalt set it for an iron wall between thee and the city: and thou 
shalt set thy face against it, and it shall be in a siege, and thou shalt 
besiege it. This is a sign to the children of Israel.   And thou shalt lie upon thy left side, 
and lay the iniquities of the house of Israel upon it, according to the number 
of the hundred and fifty days during which thou shalt lie upon it: and 
thou shalt bear their iniquities.   
For I have appointed thee their iniquities for a number of days, for a hundred 
and ninety days: so thou shalt bear the iniquities of the house of Israel.
  And thou shalt accomplish this, 
and then shalt lie on thy right side, and shalt bear the iniquities of 
the house of Juda forty days: I have appointed thee a day for a year.   So thou shalt set thy face to the 
siege of Jerusalem, and shalt strengthen thine arm, and shalt prophesy against 
it.   And, behold, I have prepared 
bonds for thee, land thou mayest not turn from thy one side to the other, until 
the days of thy siege shall be accomplished.  Take thou also to thee wheat, and 
barley, and beans, and lentils, and millet, and bread-corn; and thou shalt cast 
them into one earthen vessel, and shalt make them into loaves for thyself; and 
thou shalt eat them a hundred and ninety days, according to the number of the 
days during which thou sleepest on thy side.   And thou shalt eat thy food by weight, twenty shekels a 
day: from time to time shalt thou eat them.   And thou shalt drink water by measure, even from time to time 
thou shalt drink the sixth part of a hin.   And thou shalt eat them as a barley cake: thou shalt bake 
them before their eyes in man’s dung.   And thou shalt say, Thus saith the 
Lord God of Israel; Thus shall the children of Israel eat unclean things among 
the Gentiles.   Then I said, Not 
so, Lord God of Israel: surely my soul has not been defiled with uncleanness; 
nor have I eaten, that which died of itself or was torn of beasts from my birth 
until now; neither has any corrupt flesh entered into my mouth.   And he said to me, Behold, I have 
given thee dung of oxen instead of man’s dung, and thou shalt prepare thy loaves 
upon it.   And he said to me, Son of man, 
behold, I break the support of bread in Jerusalem: and they shall eat bread by 
weight and in want; and shall drink water by measure, and in a state of ruin:
  that they may want bread and 
water; and a man and his brother shall be brought to ruin, and they shall pine 
away in their iniquities.  And thou, son of man, take thee a 
sword sharper than a barber’s razor; thou shalt procure it for thyself, and 
shalt bring it upon thine head, and upon thy beard: and thou shalt take a pair 
of scales, and shalt separate the hair.   A fourth part thou shalt burn in the fire in the midst of the 
city, at the fulfillment of the days of the siege: and thou shalt take a fourth 
part, and burn it up in the midst of it: and a fourth part thou shalt cut with a 
sword round about it: and a fourth part thou shalt scatter to the wind; and I 
will draw out a sword after them.   And thou shalt take thence a few in 
number, and shalt wrap them in the fold of thy garment.   And thou shalt take of these again, and cast them into the 
midst of the fire, and burn them up with fire: from thence shall come forth 
fire; and thou shalt say to the whole house of Israel,  Thus saith the Lord; This is 
Jerusalem: I have set her and the countries round about her in the midst of the 
nations.   And thou shalt declare 
mine ordinances to the lawless one from out of the nations; and my statutes 
to the sinful one of the countries round about her: because they have 
rejected mine ordinances, and have not walked in my statutes.   Therefore thus saith the Lord, Because 
your occasion for sin has been taken from the nations round about you, 
and ye have not walked in my statutes, nor kept mine ordinances, nay, ye have 
not even done according to the ordinances of the nations round about you; 
therefore thus saith the Lord;   
Behold, I am against thee, and I will execute judgment in the midst of thee in 
the sight of the nations.   And I 
will do in thee things which I have not done, and the like of which I will not 
do again, for all thine abominations.   Therefore the fathers shall eat their children in the 
midst of thee, and children shall eat their fathers; and I will execute 
judgments in thee, and I will scatter all that are left of thee to every wind.
  Therefore, as I live, saith 
the Lord; surely, because thou hast defiled my holy things with all thine 
abominations, I also will reject thee; mine eye shall not spare, and I will have 
no mercy.   A fourth part of thee 
shall be cut off by pestilence, and a fourth part of thee shall be consumed in 
the midst of thee with famine: and as for another fourth part of thee, I 
will scatter them to every wind; and a fourth part of thee shall fall by sword 
round about thee, and I will draw out a sword after them.   And my wrath and mine anger shall be 
accomplished upon them: and thou shalt know that I the Lord have spoken in my 
jealousy, when I have accomplished mine anger upon them.   And I will make thee desolate, and 
thy daughters round about thee, in the sight of every one that passes through.
  And thou shalt be mourned over 
and miserable among the nations round about thee, when I have executed judgments 
in thee in the vengeance of my wrath. I the Lord have spoken.   And when I have sent against them shafts 
of famine, then they shall be consumed, and I will break the strength of thy 
bread.   So I will send forth 
against thee famine and evil beasts, and I will take vengeance upon thee; and 
pestilence and blood shall pass through upon thee; and I will bring a sword upon 
thee round about. I the Lord have spoken.  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, set thy face 
against the mountains of Israel, and prophesy against them;   and thou shalt say,   Ye mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord; thus saith 
the Lord to the mountains, and to the hills, and to the valleys, and to the 
forests; Behold, I bring a sword upon you, and your high places shall be utterly 
destroyed.   And your altars shall 
be broken to pieces, and your consecrated plats; and I will cast down your slain
men before your idols.   And 
I will scatter your bones round about your altars,   and in all your habitations: the cities shall be made 
desolate, and the high places utterly laid waste; that your altars may be 
destroyed, and your idols be broken to pieces, and your consecrated plats be 
abolished.   And slain men 
shall fall in the midst of you, and ye shall know that I am the Lord.  When there are some of you 
escaping from the sword among the Gentiles, and when ye are scattered in the 
countries;   then they of you that 
escape among the nations whither they were carried captive shall remember me; (I 
have sworn an oath against their heart that goes a-whoring from me, and 
their eyes that go a-whoring after their practices;) and they shall mourn over 
themselves for all their abominations.   And they shall know that I the Lord have spoken.  Thus saith the Lord; Clap with thy 
hand, and stamp with thy foot and say, Aha, aha! for all the abominations 
of the house of Israel: they shall fall by the sword, and by pestilence, and by 
famine.   He that is near shall 
fall by the sword; and he that is far off shall die by the pestilence; and he 
that is in the siege shall be consumed with famine: and I will accomplish mine 
anger upon them.   Then ye shall know that I am the 
Lord, when your slain are in the midst of your idols round about your altars, on 
every high hill, and under every shady tree, where they offered a sweet 
savour to all their idols.   And I 
will stretch out my hand against them, and I will make the land desolate and 
ruined from the wilderness of Deblatha, in all their habitations: and ye 
shall know that I am the Lord.  Moreover the word of the Lord came 
to me, saying, Also, thou, son of man, say,   Thus saith the Lord;   An end is come to the land of Israel, the end is come on the 
four corners of the land.   The end 
is come on thee,   the inhabitant of 
the land: the time is come, the day has drawn nigh, not with tumult, nor with 
pangs.   Now I will pour out my 
anger upon thee near at hand, and I will accomplish my wrath on thee: and I will 
judge thee for thy ways, and recompense upon thee all thine abominations. 
  Mine eye shall not spare, nor will 
I have any mercy: for I will recompense thy ways upon thee, and thine 
abominations shall be in the midst of thee; and thou shalt know that I am the 
Lord that smite thee.    Now 
the end is come to thee, and I will send judgment upon thee: and I 
will take vengeance on thy ways, and will recompense all thine abominations upon 
thee.   Mine eye shall not spare, 
nor will I have any mercy: for I will recompense thy way upon thee, and thine 
abominations shall be in the midst of thee; and thou shalt know that I am the 
Lord.   For thus saith the Lord; Behold, the 
end is come.  Behold, the day of the Lord! although 
the rod has blossomed,   pride has 
sprung up, and will break the staff of the wicked one, and that not with 
tumult, nor with haste.   The time 
is come, behold the day: let not the buyer rejoice, and let not the seller 
mourn.   For the buyer shall never 
again return to the seller, neither shall a man cleave with the eye of hope 
to his life.   Sound ye the 
trumpet, and pass sentence on all together.   There shall be war with the sword without, and famine and 
pestilence within: he that is in the field shall die by the sword; and famine 
and pestilence shall destroy them that are in the city.  But they that escape of them shall be 
delivered, and shall be upon the mountains: and I will slay all the rest, 
every one for his iniquities.   All 
hands shall be completely weakened, and all thighs shall be defiled with 
moisture.   And they shall gird 
themselves with sackcloth, and amazement shall cover them; and shame shall be 
upon them, even upon every face, and baldness upon every head.   Their silver shall be cast forth in the 
streets, and their gold shall be despised: their souls shall not be satisfied, 
and their bellies shall not be filled: for it was the punishment of their 
iniquities.   As for their 
choice ornaments, they employed them for pride, and they made of them images of 
their abominations: therefore have I made them uncleanness to them.   And I will deliver them into the 
hands of strangers to make them a prey, and to the pests of the earth for a 
spoil; and they shall profane them.   And I will turn away my face from them, and they shall defile my 
charge, and shall go in to them unguardedly, and profane them.   And they shall work uncleanness: because 
the land is full of strange nations, and the city is full of iniquity.   And I will turn back the boasting of 
their strength; and their holy things shall be defiled.   And though propitiation shall come, and one 
shall seek peace, yet there shall be none.   There shall be woe upon woe, and there shall be message upon 
message; and a vision shall be sought from a prophet; but the law shall perish 
from the priest, and counsel from the elders.   The prince shall clothe himself with desolation, and the hands of 
the people of the land shall be made feeble: I will do to them according to 
their ways, and according to their judgments will I punish them; and they shall 
know that I am the Lord.   And it came to pass in the sixth 
year, in the fifth month, on the fifth day of the month, I was sitting in 
the house, and the elders of Juda were sitting before me: and the hand of the 
Lord came upon me.   And I looked, 
and, behold, the likeness of a man: from his loins and downwards there was 
fire, and from his loins upwards there was as the appearance of amber.
  And he stretched forth the 
likeness of a hand, and took me by the crown of my head; and the Spirit lifted 
me up between the earth and sky, and brought me to Jerusalem in a vision of God, 
to the porch of the gate that looks to the north, where was the pillar of the 
Purchaser.   And, behold, the glory 
of the Lord God of Israel was there, according to the vision which I saw in the 
plain.   And he said to me, Son of man, lift up 
thine eyes toward the north. So I lifted up mine eyes toward the north, and, 
behold, I looked from the north toward the eastern gate.   And he said to me, Son of man, hast thou 
seen what these do? They commit great abominations here so that I should keep 
away from my sanctuary: and thou shalt see yet greater iniquities.  And he brought me to the porch of the 
court.   And he said to me, Son of 
man, dig: so I dug, and behold a door.   And he said to me, Go in, and behold the iniquities which they 
practise here.   So I went in and 
looked; and beheld vain abominations, and all the idols of the house of Israel, 
portrayed upon them round about.   
And seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel, and Jechonias the son of 
Saphan stood in their presence in the midst of them, and each one held his 
censer in his hand; and the smoke of the incense went up.   And he said to me, Thou hast seen, son of man, what the 
elders of the house of Israel do, each one of them in their secret chamber: 
because they have said, The Lord see not; The Lord has forsaken the earth.  And he said to me, Thou shalt see yet 
greater iniquities which these do.   And he brought me in to the porch of the house of the Lord that 
looks to the north; and, behold there were women sitting there lamenting 
for Thammuz.   And he said to me, 
Son of man, thou hast seen; but thou shalt yet see evil practices greater 
then these.   And he brought me into the inner 
court of the house of the Lord, and at the entrance of the temple of the Lord, 
between the porch and the altar, were about twenty men, with their back parts 
toward the temple of the Lord, and their faces turned the opposite way; 
and these were worshipping the sun.   And he said to me, Son of man, thou hast seen this. Is it 
a little thing to the house of Juda to practise the iniquities which they have 
practised here? for they have filled the land with iniquity: and, behold, these 
are as scorners.   Therefore will I 
deal with them in wrath: mine eye shall not spare, nor will I have any mercy.  And he cried in mine ears with a 
loud voice, saying, The judgment of the city has drawn nigh; and each had the 
weapons of destruction in his hand.   And, behold, six men came from the way of the high gate that 
looks toward the north, and each one’s axe was in his hand; and there was one 
man in the midst of them clothed with a long robe down to the feet, and a 
sapphire girdle was on his loins: and they came in and stood near the brazen 
altar.   And the glory of the God of 
Israel, that was upon them, went up from the cherubs to the porch of the house.
  And he called the man that was clothed with the long robe, who 
had the girdle on his loins;   And 
said to him, Go through the midst of Jerusalem, and set a mark on the foreheads 
of the men that groan and that grieve for all the iniquities that are done in 
the midst of them.   And he said to 
the first in my hearing, Go after him into the city, and smite: and let not your 
eyes spare, and have no mercy.   
Slay utterly old man and youth, and virgin, and infants, and women: but go ye 
not nigh any on whom is the mark: begin at my sanctuary.   So they began with the elder men who were within in the house.
  And he said to them, Defile the 
house, and go out and fill the ways with dead bodies, and smite.   And it came to pass as they were 
smiting, that I fell upon my face, and cried out, and said, Alas, O Lord! wilt 
thou destroy the remnant of Israel, in pouring out thy wrath upon Jerusalem?
  Then said he to me, The iniquity 
of the house of Israel and Juda is become very exceedingly great: for the land 
is filled with many nations, and the city is filled with iniquity and 
uncleanness: because they have said, The Lord has forsaken the earth, The Lord 
looks not upon it.   
Therefore mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have any mercy: I have 
recompensed their ways upon their heads.   And, behold, the man clothed with the 
long robe, and girt with the girdle about his loins, answered and said, I have 
done as thou didst command me.  Then I looked, and, behold, over 
the firmament that was above the head of the cherubs there was a likeness 
of a throne over them, as a sapphire stone.   And he said to the man clothed with the long robe, Go in 
between the wheels that are under the cherubs, and fill thine hands with coals 
of fire from between the cherubs, and scatter them over the city. And he 
went in my sight.   And the cherubs stood on the right 
hand of the house, as the man went in; and the cloud filled the inner court.
  Then the glory of the Lord 
departed from the cherubs to the porch of the house; and the cloud filled the 
house, and the court was filled with the brightness of the glory of the Lord.
  And the sound of the cherubs’ 
wings was heard as far as the outer court, as the voice of the Almighty God 
speaking.   And it came to pass, when he gave a 
charge to the man clothed with the sacred robe, saying, Take fire from between 
the wheels from between the cherubs, that he went in, and stood near the wheels.
  And he stretched forth his hand 
into the midst of the fire that was between the cherubs, and took thereof, 
and put it into the hands of the man clothed with the sacred robe: and he 
took it, and went out.  And I saw the cherubs having 
the likeness of men’s hands under their wings.   And I saw, and behold, four wheels stood by the cherubs, one 
wheel by each cherub: and the appearance of the wheels was as the appearance of 
a carbuncle stone.   And as for 
their appearance, there was one likeness to the four, as if there should 
be a wheel in the midst of a wheel.   When they went, they went on their four sides; they turned not 
when they went, for whichever way the first head looked, they went; and they 
turned not as they went.   And 
their backs, and their hands, and their wings, and the wheels, were full of eyes 
round about the four wheels.   And 
these wheels were called Gelgel in my hearing.   And the cherubs were the same living creature which I saw 
by the river of Chobar.   And when the cherubs went, the wheels 
went, and they were close to them: and when the cherubs lifted up their wings to 
mount up from the earth, their wheels turned not.   When they stood, the wheels stood; and when they 
mounted up, the wheels mounted up with them: because the spirit of life 
was in them.   Then the glory of the Lord departed 
from the house, and went up on the cherubs.   And the cherubs lifted up their wings, and mounted up from the 
earth in my sight: when they went forth, the wheels were also beside them, and 
they stood at the entrance of the front gate of the house of the Lord; and the 
glory of the God of Israel was upon them above.   This is the living creature which I 
saw under the God of Israel by the river of Chobar; and I knew that they were 
cherubs.   Each one had four 
faces, and each one had eight wings; and under their wings was the 
likeness of men’s hands.   And 
as for the likeness of their faces, these are the same faces which I 
saw under the glory of the God of Israel by the river of Chobar: and they went 
each straight forward.  Moreover the Spirit took me up, and 
brought me to the front gate of the house of the Lord, that looks eastward: and 
behold at the entrance of the gate were about five and twenty men; and I saw in 
the midst of them Jechonias the son of Ezer, and Phaltias the son of Banaeas, 
the leaders of the people.   And the Lord said to me, Son of man, 
these are the men that devise vanities, and take evil counsel in this city:
  who say, Have not the houses been 
newly built? This is the caldron, and we are the flesh.   Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, son of man.
  And the Spirit of the Lord fell 
upon me, and said to me, say;   Thus saith the Lord; Thus have ye said, O house of Israel: and 
I know the devices of your spirit.   Ye have multiplied your dead in this city, and ye have filled 
your ways with slain men.   
Therefore thus saith the Lord; Your dead whom ye have smitten in the midst of 
it, these are the flesh, and this city is the caldron: but I will bring 
you forth out of the midst of it.   
Ye fear the sword; and I will bring a sword upon you, saith the Lord.   And I will bring you forth out of the 
midst of it, and will deliver you into the hands of strangers, and will execute 
judgments among you.   Ye shall 
fall by the sword; I will judge you on the mountains of Israel; and ye shall 
know that I am the Lord.   And it came to pass, while I was 
prophesying, that Phaltias the son of Banaeas died. And I fell upon my face, and 
cried with a loud voice, and said, Alas, alas, O Lord! wilt thou utterly destroy 
the remnant of Israel?   And the 
word of the Lord came to me, saying,   Son of man, thy brethren, and the men of thy captivity, and all 
the house of Israel are come to the full, to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem 
said, Keep ye far away from the Lord: the land is given to us for an 
inheritance.   Therefore say thou,
  Thus saith the Lord; I will cast them off among the nations, 
and will disperse them into every land, yet will I be to them for a little 
sanctuary in the countries which they shall enter.   Therefore say thou, Thus saith the Lord; I will also take 
them from the heathen, and gather them out of the lands wherein I have scattered 
them, and will give them the land of Israel.   And they shall enter in there, and 
shall remove all the abominations of it, and all its iniquities from it.   And I will give them another heart, and 
will put a new spirit within them; and will extract the heart of stone from 
their flesh, and give them a heart of flesh:   that they may walk in my commandments, and keep mine ordinances, 
and do them: and they shall be to me a people, and I will be to them a God.
  And as for the heart set upon 
their abominations and their iniquities, as their heart went after them, 
I have recompensed their ways on their heads, saith the Lord.  Then the cherubs lifted up their 
wings, and the wheels beside them; and the glory of the God of Israel was over 
them above.   And the glory of the 
Lord went up from the midst of the city, and stood on the mountain which was in 
front of the city.   And the Spirit took me up, and 
brought me to the land of the Chaldeans, to the captivity, in a vision by the 
Spirit of God: and I went up after the vision which I saw.   And I spoke to the captivity all the 
words of the Lord which he had shewed me.  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   Son of man, thou 
dwellest in the midst of the iniquities of those, who have eyes to see, and see 
not; and have ears to hear, and hear not: because it is a provoking house.
  Thou therefore, son of man, prepare 
thyself baggage for going into captivity by day in their sight; and thou shalt 
be led into captivity from thy place into another place in their sight; that 
they may see that it is a provoking house.   And thou shalt carry forth thy baggage, baggage for captivity, by 
day before their eyes: and thou shalt go forth at even, as a captive goes forth, 
in their sight.   Dig for thyself 
into the wall of the house, and thou shalt pass through it in their 
sight:   thou shalt be lifted up on
men’s shoulders, and shalt go forth in secret: thou shalt cover thy face, 
and shalt not see the ground: because I have made thee a sign to the house of 
Israel.   And I did thus according to all that 
he commanded me; and I carried forth my baggage for captivity by day, and in the 
evening I dug through the wall for myself, and went out secretly; I was taken up 
on men’s shoulders before them.   And the word of the Lord came to me in the morning, saying,
  Son of man, have not the house of 
Israel, the provoking house, said to thee, What doest thou?   Say to them,   Thus saith the Lord God, the Prince and the Ruler in Israel, 
even to all the house of Israel who are in the midst of them:   say, I am performing signs: as I have 
done, so shall it be to him: they shall go into banishment and captivity.   And the prince in the midst of them 
shall be borne upon shoulders, and shall go forth in secret through the wall, 
and shall dig so that he may go forth thereby: he shall cover his face, that he 
may not be seen by any eye, and he himself shall not see the ground.
  And I will spread out my net upon 
him, and he shall be caught in my toils: and I will bring him to Babylon to the 
land of the Chaldeans; but he shall not see it, though he shall die there.
  And I will scatter to every wind 
all his assistants round about him, and all that help him; and I will draw out a 
sword after them;   And they shall know that I am the 
Lord, when I have scattered them among the nations; and I will disperse them in 
the countries.   And I will leave of them a few 
men in number spared from the sword, and from famine, and pestilence; 
that they may declare all their iniquities among the nations whither they have 
gone; and they shall know that I am the Lord.  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, eat thy bread 
with sorrow, and drink thy water with torment and affliction.   And thou shalt say to the people of the 
land, Thus saith the Lord to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, on the land of 
Israel; They shall eat their bread in scarcity, and shall drink their water in 
desolation, that the land may be desolate with all that it contains: for all 
that dwell in it are ungodly.   And 
their inhabited cities shall be laid utterly waste, and the land shall be 
desolate; and ye shall know that I am the Lord.  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, what is your 
parable on the land of Israel, that ye say, The days are long, the vision has 
perished?   Therefore say to them,
  Thus saith the Lord; I will even set aside this parable, and 
the house of Israel shall no more at all use this parable: for thou shalt say to 
them, The days are at hand, and the import of every vision.   For there shall no more be any false 
vision, nor any one prophesying flatteries in the midst of the children of 
Israel.   For I the Lord will speak 
my words; I will speak and perform them, and will no more delay, for in 
your days, O provoking house, I will speak the word, and will perform it, 
saith the Lord.   Moreover the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   Son of man, behold, 
the provoking house of Israel boldly say, The vision which this man sees is for 
many days, and he prophesies for times afar off.   Therefore say to them, Thus saith the Lord; Henceforth none of my 
words shall linger, which I shall speak: I will speak and do, saith the Lord.  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   Son of man, prophesy 
against the prophets of Israel, and thou shalt prophesy, and shalt say to them, 
Hear ye the word of the Lord:   Thus saith the Lord, Woe to them that 
prophesy out of their own heart, and who see nothing at all.   Thy prophets, O Israel, are like foxes in 
the deserts.   They have not 
continued steadfast, and they have gathered flocks against the house of Israel, 
they that say,   In the day of the 
Lord, have not stood, seeing false visions, prophesying vanities, who 
say, The Lord saith, and the Lord has not sent them, and they began to try 
to confirm the word.   Have ye not 
seen a false vision? and spoken vain prophecies?   And therefore say,   Thus saith the Lord; Because your words are false, and your 
prophecies are vain, therefore, behold, I am against you, saith the Lord.   And I will stretch forth my hand against 
the prophets that see false visions, and those that utter vanities: they 
shall not partake of the instruction of my people, neither shall they be written 
in the roll of the house of Israel, and they shall not enter into the land of 
Israel; and they shall know that I am the Lord.   Because they have caused my people to err, saying, Peace; and 
there is no peace; and one builds a wall, and they plaster it, —it shall fall.
  Say to them that plaster it, 
It shall fall; and there shall be a flooding rain; and I will send great stones 
upon their joinings, and they shall fall; and there shall be a sweeping wind, 
and it shall be broken.   And lo! 
the wall has fallen; and will they not say to you, Where is your plaster 
wherewith ye plastered it?   Therefore thus saith the Lord; I will even cause to burst forth a 
sweeping blast with fury, and there shall be a flooding rain in my wrath; and in
my fury I will bring on great stones for complete destruction.   And I will break down the wall which ye 
have plastered, and it shall fall; and I will lay it on the ground, and its 
foundations shall be discovered, and it shall fall; and ye shall be consumed 
with rebukes: and ye shall know that I am the Lord.   And I will accomplish my wrath upon 
the wall, and upon them that plaster it; it shall fall: and I said to you, The 
wall is not, nor they that plaster it,   even the prophets of Israel, who prophesy concerning Jerusalem, 
and who see visions of peace for her, and there is no peace, saith the 
Lord.   And thou, son of man, set 
thy face firmly against the daughters of thy people, that prophesy out of their 
own heart; and prophesy against them.   And thou shalt say, Thus saith the Lord, Woe to the women 
that sew pillows under every elbow, and make kerchiefs on the head of every 
stature to pervert souls! The souls of my people are perverted, and they have 
saved souls alive.   And they have 
dishonoured me before my people for a handful of barley, and for pieces of 
bread, to slay the souls which should not die, and to save alive the souls which 
should not live, while ye speak to a people hearing vain speeches.   Therefore thus saith the Lord God, 
Behold, I am against your pillows, whereby ye there confound souls, and I will 
tear them away from your arms, and will set at liberty their souls which ye 
pervert to scatter them.   And I 
will tear your kerchiefs, and will rescue my people out of your hands, and they 
shall no longer be in your hands to be confounded; and ye shall know that I am 
the Lord.   Because ye have perverted the heart 
of the righteous, whereas I perverted him not, and that in order to 
strengthen the hands of the wicked, that he should not at all turn from his evil 
way and live:   therefore ye shall 
not see false visions, and ye shall no more utter prophecies: but I will 
deliver my people out of your hand; and ye shall know that I am the Lord.  And there came to me men of the 
people of Israel, of the elders, and sat before me.   And the word of the Lord came to me, saying,   Son of man, these men have conceived 
their devices in their hearts, and have set before their faces the punishment of 
their iniquities: shall I indeed answer them?   Therefore speak to them, and thou shalt say to them, Thus saith 
the Lord; Any man of the house of Israel, who shall conceive his devices in his 
heart, and shall set the punishment of his iniquity before his face, and shall 
come to the prophet; I the Lord will answer him according to the things 
in which his mind is entangled,   
that he should turn aside the house of Israel, according to their hearts that 
are estranged from me in their thoughts.   Therefore say to the house of Israel, 
Thus saith the Lord God, Be converted, and turn from your evil practices, 
and from all your sins, and turn your faces back again.   For any man of the house of Israel, or of the strangers 
that sojourn in Israel, who shall separate himself from me, and conceive his 
imaginations in his heart, and set before his face the punishment of his 
iniquity, and come to the prophet to enquire of him concerning me; I the Lord 
will answer him, according to the things wherein he is entangled.   And I will set my face against that man, 
and will make him desolate and ruined, and will cut him off from the midst of my 
people; and ye shall know that I am the Lord.   And if a prophet should cause to err 
and should speak, I the Lord have caused that prophet to err, and will stretch 
out my hand upon him, and will utterly destroy him from the midst of my people 
Israel.   And they shall bear their 
iniquity according to the trespass of him that asks; and it shall be in like 
manner to the prophet according to the trespass:   that the house of Israel may no more go astray from me, and that 
they may no more defile themselves with any of their transgressions: so shall 
they be my people, and I will be their God, saith the Lord.  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, if a land 
shall sin against me by committing a trespass, then will I stretch out my hand 
upon it, and will break its staff of bread, and will send forth famine upon it, 
and cut off from it man and beast.   And though these three men should be in the midst of it, Noe, and 
Daniel, and Job, they alone should be delivered by their righteousness, 
saith the Lord.   If again I bring evil beasts upon the 
land, and take vengeance upon it, and it be ruined, and there be no one to pass 
through for fear of the wild beasts:   and if these three men should be in the midst of it, as 
I live, saith the Lord, neither sons nor daughters shall be saved, but these 
only shall be saved, and the land shall be destroyed.   Or again if I bring a sword upon that land, and say, Let 
the sword go through the land; and I cut off from them man and beast:   though these three men were in the midst 
of it, as I live, saith the Lord, they shall not deliver sons or daughters, but 
they only shall be saved themselves.   Or if again I send pestilence 
upon that land, and pour out my wrath upon it in blood, to destroy from off it 
man and beast:   and should Noe, 
and Daniel, and Job, be in the midst of it, as I live, saith the Lord, 
there shall be left them neither sons nor daughters; only they by 
their righteousness shall deliver their souls.   Thus saith the Lord, And if I even 
send upon Jerusalem my four sore judgments, sword, and famine, and evil beasts, 
and pestilence, to destroy from out of it man and beast;   yet, behold, there shall be men left in it, the 
escaped thereof, who shall lead forth of it sons and daughters: behold, 
they shall go forth to you, and ye shall see their ways and their 
thoughts: and ye shall mourn over the evils which I have brought upon Jerusalem,
even all the evils which I have brought upon it.   And they shall comfort you, because ye shall see their 
ways and their thoughts: and ye shall know that I have not done in vain all that 
I have done in it, saith the Lord.  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   And thou, son of man—of all the wood, 
of the branches that are among the trees of the forest, what shall be made of 
the wood of the vine?   Will they 
take wood of it to make it fit for work? will they take of it a peg to 
hang any vessel upon it?   It is 
only given to the fire to be consumed; the fire consumes that which is yearly 
pruned of it, and it is utterly gone. Will it be useful for any work?
  Not even while it is yet whole 
will it be useful for any work: if the fire shall have utterly 
consumed it, will it still be fit for work?   Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord, As the vine-tree among 
the trees of the forest, which I have given up to the fire to be consumed, so 
have I given up the inhabitants of Jerusalem.   And I will set my face against them; they shall go forth of the 
fire, and yet fire shall devour them; and they shall know that I am the 
Lord, when I have set my face against them.   And I will give up the land to ruin, because they have utterly 
transgressed, saith the Lord.  Moreover the word of the Lord came 
to me, saying,   Son of man, testify 
to Jerusalem of her iniquities;   and thou shalt say, Thus saith the Lord to Jerusalem; Thy root 
and thy birth are of the land of Chanaan: thy father was an Amorite, and thy 
mother a Chettite.   And as for 
thy birth in the day wherein thou wast born, thou didst not bind thy breasts, 
and thou wast not washed in water, neither wast thou salted with salt, neither 
wast thou swathed in swaddling-bands.   Nor did mine eye pity thee, to do for thee one of all these 
things, to feel at all for thee; but thou wast cast out on the face of the 
field, because of the deformity of thy person, in the day wherein thou wast 
born.  And I passed by to thee, and saw thee 
polluted in thy blood; and I said to thee, Let there be life out of thy 
blood:   increase; I have made thee 
as the springing grass of the field. So thou didst increase and grow, and didst 
enter into great cities: thy breasts were set, and thy hair grew, whereas thou 
wast naked and bare.   And I passed by thee and saw thee, 
and, behold, it was thy time and a time of resting; and I spread my wings 
over thee, and covered thy shame, and swear to thee: and I entered into covenant 
with thee, saith the Lord, and thou becamest mine.   And I washed thee in water, and washed thy blood from 
thee, and anointed thee with oil.   And I clothed thee with embroidered garments, and clothed 
thee beneath with purple, and girded thee with fine linen, and clothed thee with 
silk,   and decked thee also with 
ornaments, and put bracelets on thine hands, and a necklace on thy neck.   And I put a pendant on thy nostril, and 
rings in thine ears, and a crown of glory on thine head.   So thou wast adorned with gold and silver; and thy 
raiment was of fine linen, and silk, and variegated work: thou didst eat fine 
flour, and oil, and honey, and didst become extremely beautiful.   And thy name went forth among the 
nations for thy beauty: because it was perfected with elegance, and in 
the comeliness which I put upon thee, saith the Lord.  Thou didst trust in thy beauty, and 
didst go a-whoring because of thy renown, and didst pour out thy fornication on 
every passer by.   And thou didst 
take of thy garments, and madest to thyself idols of needlework, and didst go 
a-whoring after them; therefore thou shalt never come in, nor shall the like 
take place.   And thou tookest thy 
fair ornaments of my gold and of my silver, of what I gave thee, and thou madest 
to thyself male images, and thou didst commit whoredom with them.   And thou didst take thy variegated 
apparel and didst clothe them, and thou didst set before them mine oil and mine 
incense.   And thou tookest 
my bread which I gave thee, (yea I fed thee with fine flour and oil and 
honey) and didst set them before them for a sweet-smelling savour: yea, it was 
so, saith the Lord.   And thou tookest thy sons and thy 
daughters, whom thou borest, and didst sacrifice these to them to be 
destroyed. Thou didst go a-whoring as if that were little,   and didst slay thy children, and gavest 
them up in offering them to them for an expiation.   This is beyond all thy fornication, and thou didst not 
remember thine infancy, when thou wast naked and bare, and didst live 
though defiled in thy blood.   And it came to pass after all thy 
wickedness, saith the Lord,   that 
thou didst build thyself a house of fornication, and didst make thyself a public 
place in every street;   and on the 
head of every way thou didst set up thy fornications, and didst defile thy 
beauty, and didst open thy feet to every passer by, and didst multiply thy 
fornication.   And thou didst go 
a-whoring after the children of Egypt thy neighbors, great of flesh; and didst 
go a-whoring, often to provoke me to anger.   And if I stretch out my hand against 
thee, then will I abolish thy statutes, and deliver thee up to the wills 
of them that hate thee, even to the daughters of the Philistines that 
turned thee aside from the way wherein thou sinned.   And thou didst go a-whoring to the 
daughters of Assur, and not even thus wast thou satisfied; yea, thou didst go 
a-whoring, and wast not satisfied.   And thou didst multiply thy covenants with the land of the 
Chaldeans; and not even with these wast thou satisfied.   Why should I make a covenant with thy 
daughter, saith the Lord, while thou doest all these things, the works of a 
harlot? and thou hast gone a-whoring in a threefold degree with thy daughters.
  Thou hast built a house of 
harlotry in every top of a way, and hast set up thine high place in every 
street; and thou didst become as a harlot gathering hires.   An adulteress resembles thee, taking 
rewards of her husband.   She has 
even given rewards to all that went a-whoring after her, and thou hast given 
rewards to all thy lovers, yea, thou didst load them with rewards, that they 
should come to thee from every side for thy fornication.   And there has happened in thee 
perverseness in thy fornication beyond other women, and they have 
committed fornication with thee, in that thou givest hires over and above, and 
hires were not given to thee; and thus perverseness happened in thee.  Therefore, harlot, hear the word of 
the Lord:   Thus saith the Lord, 
Because thou hast poured forth thy money, therefore thy shame shall be 
discovered in thy harlotry with thy lovers, and with regard to all the 
imaginations of thine iniquities, and for the blood of thy children which thou 
hast given to them.   Therefore, 
behold, I will gather all thy lovers with whom thou hast consorted, and 
all whom thou hast loved, with all whom thou didst hate; and I will gather them 
against thee round about, and will expose thy wickedness to them, and they shall 
see all thy shame.   And I will be 
avenged on thee with the vengeance of an adulteress, and I will bring upon thee 
blood of fury and jealousy.   And I 
will deliver thee into their hands, and they shall break down thy house of 
harlotry, and destroy thine high place; and they shall strip thee of thy 
garments, and shall take thy proud ornaments, and leave thee naked and bare.
  And they shall bring multitudes 
upon thee, and they shall stone thee with stones, and pierce thee with their 
swords.   And they shall burn thine 
houses with fire, and shall execute vengeance on thee in the sight of many 
women: and I will turn thee back from harlotry, and I will no more give thee 
rewards.   So will I slacken my fury against 
thee, and my jealousy shall be removed from thee, and I will rest, and be no 
more careful for thee.   
Because thou didst not remember thine infancy, and thou didst grieve me in all 
these things; therefore, behold, I have recompensed thy ways upon thine head, 
saith the Lord: for thus hast thou wrought ungodliness above all thine other 
iniquities.  These are all the things they have 
spoken against thee in a proverb, saying,   As is the mother, so is thy mother’s daughter: thou art she that 
has rejected her husband and her children; and the sisters of thy sisters have 
rejected their husbands and their children: your mother was a Chettite, and 
your father an Amorite.   Your 
elder sister who dwells on thy left hand is Samaria, she and her daughters: and 
thy younger sister, that dwells on the right hand, is Sodom and her daughters.
  Yet notwithstanding thou hast not 
walked in their ways, neither hast thou done according to their iniquities 
within a little, but thou hast exceeded them in all thy ways.   As I live, saith the Lord, 
this Sodom and her daughters have not done as thou and thy daughters have done.
  Moreover this was the sin of thy 
sister Sodom, pride: she and her daughters lived in pleasure, in fullness of 
bread and in abundance: this belonged to her and her daughters, and they 
helped not the hand of the poor and needy.   And they boasted, and wrought iniquities before me: so I cut them 
off as I saw fit.   Also Samaria has not sinned according 
to half of thy sins; but thou hast multiplied thine iniquities beyond them, and 
thou hast justified thy sisters in all thine iniquities which thou hast 
committed.   Thou therefore bear 
thy punishment, for that thou hast corrupted thy sisters by thy sins which thou 
hast committed beyond them; and thou hast made them appear more righteous 
than thyself: thou therefore be ashamed, and bear thy dishonour, in that thou 
hast justified thy sisters.   And I 
will turn their captivity, even the captivity of Sodom and her daughters; 
and I will turn the captivity of Samaria and her daughters; and I will turn thy 
captivity in the midst of them:   
that thou mayest bear thy punishment, and be dishonoured for all that thou hast 
done in provoking me to anger.   And thy sister Sodom and her 
daughters shall be restored as they were at the beginning, and thou and thy 
daughters shall be restored as ye were at the beginning.   And surely thy sister Sodom was not 
mentioned by thy mouth in the days of thy pride:   before thy wickedness was discovered, even now thou art the 
reproach of the daughters of Syria, and of all that are round about her, even 
of the daughters of the Philistines that compass thee round about.   As for thine ungodliness and 
thine iniquities, thou hast borne them, saith the Lord.   Thus saith the Lord; I will even do 
to thee as thou hast done, as thou hast dealt shamefully in these things to 
transgress my covenant.   And I 
will remember my covenant made with thee in the days of thine infancy, 
and I will establish to thee an everlasting covenant.   Then thou shalt remember thy way, and shalt be utterly 
dishonoured when thou receivest thine elder sisters with thy younger ones: and I 
will give them to thee for building up, but not by thy covenant.   And I will establish my covenant with 
thee; and thou shalt know that I am the Lord:   that thou mayest remember, and be ashamed, and mayest no more be 
able to open thy mouth for thy shame, when I am reconciled to thee for all that 
thou hast done, saith the Lord.  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   Son of man, relate a 
tale, and speak a parable to the house of Israel:   and thou shalt say, Thus saith the Lord; A great eagle with large 
wings, spreading them out very far, with many claws, which has the design of 
entering into Libanus—and he took the choice branches of the cedar:
  he cropped off the ends of the 
tender twigs, and brought them into the land of Chanaan; he laid them up in a 
walled city.   And he took of the 
seed of the land, and sowed it in a field planted by much water; he set it in a 
conspicuous place.   And it sprang 
up, and became a weak and little vine, so that the branches thereof appeared 
upon it, and its roots were under it: and it became a vine, and put forth 
shoots, and sent forth its tendrils.   And there was another great eagle, 
with great wings and many claws: and, behold, this vine bent itself round toward 
him, and her roots were turned towards him, and she sent forth her 
branches towards him, that he might water her together with the growth of 
her plantation.   She thrives in a 
fair field by much water, to produce shoots and bear fruit, that she might 
become a great vine.   Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord; 
Shall it prosper? shall not the roots of her tender stem and her fruit be 
blighted? yea, all her early shoots shall be dried up, and that not by a 
mighty arm, nor by many people, to tear her up from her roots.   And, behold, it thrives: shall it 
prosper? shall it not wither as soon as the east wind touches it? it shall be 
withered together with the growth of its shoots.   Moreover the word of the Lord came to 
me saying,   Son of man, say now to 
the provoking house, Know ye not what these things were? say to them, 
Whenever the king of Babylon shall come against Jerusalem, then he shall take 
her king and her princes, and shall take them home to Babylon.   And he shall take of the seed royal, and 
shall make a covenant with him, and shall bind him with an oath: and he shall 
take the princes of the land:   
that it may become a weak kingdom, so as never to lift itself up, that he may 
keep his covenant, and establish it.   And if he shall revolt from him, to send his messengers 
into Egypt, that they may give him horses and much people; shall he 
prosper? shall he that acts as an adversary be preserved? and shall he that 
transgresses the covenant be preserved?   As I live, saith the Lord, 
verily in the place where the king is that made him king, who dishonoured 
my oath, and who broke my covenant, shall he die with him in the midst of 
Babylon.   And Pharaoh shall make 
war upon him not with a large force or great multitude, in throwing up a mound, 
and in building of forts, to cut off souls.   Whereas he has profaned the oath so as to break the covenant, 
when, behold, I engage his hand, and he has done all these things to him, he 
shall not escape.   Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord;
As I live, surely mine oath which he has profaned, and my covenant which 
he has transgressed, I will even recompense it upon his head.   And I will spread a net upon him, and he 
shall be caught in its snare.   In 
every battle of his they shall fall by the sword, and I will scatter his 
remnant to every wind: and ye shall know that I the Lord have spoken it.  For thus saith the Lord; I will even 
take of the choice branches of the cedar from the top thereof, I 
will crop off their hearts, and I will plant it on a high mountain:   and I will hang it on a lofty mountain 
of Israel: yea, I will plant it, and it shall put forth shoots, and shall bear 
fruit, and it shall be a great cedar: and every bird shall rest beneath it, even 
every fowl shall rest under its shadow: its branches shall be restored.   And all the trees of the field shall 
know that I am the Lord that bring low the high tree, and exalt the low tree, 
and wither the green tree, and cause the dry tree to flourish: I the Lord have 
spoken, and will do it.  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   Son of man, what mean 
ye by this parable among the children of Israel, saying, The fathers have eaten 
unripe grapes, and the children’s teeth have been set on edge?   As I live, saith the Lord, 
surely this parable shall no more be spoken in Israel.   For all souls are mine; as the soul of the father, so also 
the soul of the son, they are mine: the soul that sins, it shall die.   But the man who shall be just, who 
executes judgment and righteousness,   who shall not eat upon the mountains, and shall not at all lift 
up his eyes to the devices of the house of Israel, and shall not defile his 
neighbor’s wife, and shall not draw nigh to her that is removed,   and shall not oppress any man, but 
shall return the pledge of the debtor, and shall be guilty of no plunder, shall 
give his bread to the hungry, and clothe the naked;   and shall not lend his money upon usury, and shall not 
receive usurious increase, and shall turn back his hand from injustice, shall 
execute righteous judgment between a man and his neighbor,   and has walked in my commandments and 
kept mine ordinances, to do them; he is righteous, he shall surely live, saith 
the Lord.  And if he beget a mischievous son, 
shedding blood and committing sins,   who has not walked in the way of his righteous father, but has 
even eaten upon the mountains, and has defiled his neighbor’s wife,   and has oppressed the poor and needy, 
and has committed robbery, and not restored a pledge, and has set his eyes upon 
idols, has wrought iniquities,   
has lent upon usury, and taken usurious increase; he shall by no means live: he 
has wrought all these iniquities; he shall surely die; his blood shall be upon 
him.   And if he beget a son, and the son 
see all his father’s sins which he has wrought, and fear, and not do according 
to them,   and if he has not 
eaten on the mountains, and has not set his eyes on the devices of the house of 
Israel, and has not defiled his neighbor’s wife,   and has not oppressed a man, and has not retained the pledge, nor 
committed robbery, has given his bread to the hungry, and has clothed the naked,
  and has turned back his hand from 
unrighteousness, has not received interest or usurious increase, has wrought 
righteousness, and walked in mine ordinances; he shall not die for the 
iniquities of his father, he shall surely live.   But if his father grievously afflict, or plunder, he has wrought 
enmity in the midst of my people, and shall die in his iniquity.   But ye will say, Why has not the son 
borne the iniquity of the father? Because the son has wrought judgment and 
mercy, has kept all my statues, and done them, he shall surely live.   But the soul that sins shall die: and 
the son shall not bear the iniquity of the father, nor shall the father bear the 
iniquity of the son: the righteousness of the righteous shall be upon him, and 
the iniquity of the transgressor shall be upon him.  And if the transgressor turn away 
from all his iniquities which he has committed, and keep all my commandments, 
and do justice and mercy, he shall surely live, and shall by no means die.
  None of his trespasses which he 
has committed shall be remembers: in his righteousness which he has done he 
shall live.   Shall I at all desire 
death of the sinner, saith the Lord, as I desire that he should turn from
his evil way, and live?   But when the righteous man turns away 
from his righteousness, and commits iniquity, according to all the 
transgressions which the transgressor has wrought, none of his righteousness 
which he has wrought shall be at all remembered: in his trespass wherein he has 
trespassed, and in his sins wherein he has sinned, in them shall he die.   Yet ye have said, The way of the Lord 
is not straight. Hear now, all the house of Israel; will not my way be straight? 
Is your way straight?   When the 
righteous turns away from his righteousness and commits a trespass, and dies in 
the trespass he has committed, he shall even die in it.   And when the wicked man turns away from 
his wickedness that he has committed, and shall do judgment and justice, he has 
kept his soul,   and has turned 
away from all his ungodliness which he has committed: he shall surely live, he 
shall not die.   Yet the house of Israel say, The way 
of the Lord is not right. Is not my way right, O house of Israel? is not your 
way wrong?   I will judge you, O 
house of Israel, saith the Lord, each one according to his way: be converted, 
and turn from all your ungodliness, and it shall not become to you the 
punishment of iniquity.   Cast away 
from yourselves all your ungodliness wherein ye have sinned against me; and make 
to yourselves a new heart and a new spirit: for why should ye die, O house of 
Israel?   For I desire not the 
death of him that dies, saith the Lord.  Moreover do thou take up a 
lamentation for the prince of Israel,   and say, Why is thy mother become a whelp in the midst of lions? 
in the midst of lions she has multiplied her whelps.   And one of her whelps sprang forth; he became a lion, and 
learned to take prey, he devoured men.   And the nations heard a report of him; he was caught in their 
pit, and they brought him into the land of Egypt in chains.   And she saw that he was driven away 
from her, and her hope of him perished, and she took another of 
her whelps; she made him a lion.   
And he went up and down in the midst of lions, he became a lion, and learned to 
take prey, he devoured men.   And he 
prowled in his boldness and laid waste their cities, and made the land desolate, 
and the fullness of it, by the voice of his roaring.   Then the nations set upon him from the 
countries round about, and they spread their nets upon him: he was taken in 
their pit.   And they put him in 
chains and in a cage, and he came to the king of Babylon; and he cast him 
into prison, that his voice should not be heard on the mountains of Israel.
  Thy mother was as a vine and as a 
blossom on a pomegranate tree, planted by water: her fruit and her shoot 
abounded by reason of much water.   And she became a rod for a tribe of princes, and was elevated in 
her bulk in the midst of other trees, and she saw her bulk in the 
multitude of her branches.   But she was broken down in wrath, she 
was cast upon the ground, and the east wind dried up her choice branches: 
vengeance came upon them, and the rod of her strength was withered; fire 
consumed it.   And now they have 
planted her in the wilderness, in a dry land.   And fire is gone out of a rod of her choice boughs, and 
has devoured her; and there was no rod of strength in her. Her race is become a 
parable of lamentation, and it shall be for a lamentation.  And it came to pass in the seventh 
year, on the fifteenth day of the month, there came men of the elders of the 
house of Israel to enquire of the Lord, and they sat before me.   And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, speak to the 
elders of the house of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, Thus saith the Lord; 
Are ye come to enquire of me? As I live, I will not be enquired of by 
you, saith the Lord.   Shall I 
utterly take vengeance on them, son of man? testify to them of the iniquities of 
their fathers:  and thou shalt say 
to them, Thus saith the Lord;   From the day that I chose the house of Israel, and became 
known to the seed of the house of Jacob, and was known to them in the land of 
Egypt, and helped them with my hand, saying, I am the Lord your God;   in that day I helped them with my hand, 
to bring them out of the land of Egypt into the land which I prepared for them, 
a land flowing with milk and honey, it is abundant beyond every land.   And I said to them, Let every one cast 
away the abominations of his eyes, and defile not yourselves with the devices of 
Egypt: I am the Lord your God.   But they revolted from me, and would 
not hearken to me: they cast not away the abominations of their eyes, and 
forsook not the devices of Egypt: then I said that I would pour out my wrath 
upon them, to accomplish my wrath upon them in the midst of Egypt.   But I wrought so that my name 
should not be at all profaned in the sight of the Gentiles, in the midst of whom 
they are, among whom I was made known to them in their sight, to bring them out 
of the land of Egypt.  And I brought them into the 
wilderness.   And I gave them my 
commandments, and made known to them mine ordinances, all which if a man 
shall do, he shall even live in them.   And I gave them my sabbaths, that they should be for a sign 
between me and them, that they should know that I am the Lord that sanctify 
them.   And I said to the house of Israel in 
the wilderness, Walk ye in my commandments: but they walked not in them, 
and they rejected mine ordinances, which if a man shall do, he shall even 
live in them; and they grievously profaned my sabbaths: and I said that I would 
pour out my wrath upon them in the wilderness, to consume them.   But I wrought so that my name 
should not be at all profaned before the Gentiles, before whose eyes I brought 
them out.   But I lifted up my hand against them 
in the wilderness once for all, that I would not bring them into the land which 
I gave them, a land flowing with milk and honey, it is sweeter than all lands:
  because they rejected mine 
ordinances, and walked not in my commandments, but profaned my sabbaths, and 
went after the imaginations of their hearts.   Yet mine eyes spared them, so as 
not to destroy them utterly, and I did not make an end of them in the 
wilderness.   And I said to their 
children in the wilderness, Walk not ye in the customs of your fathers, and keep 
not their ordinances, and have no fellowship with their practices, nor defile 
yourselves with them.   I 
am the Lord your God; walk in my commandments, and keep mine ordinances, and 
do them;   and hallow my sabbaths, 
and let them be a sign between me and you, that ye may know that I am the Lord 
your God.   But they provoked me, and their 
children walked not in my commandments, and they took no heed to mine ordinances 
to do them, which if a man shall do, he shall even live in them, and they 
profaned my sabbaths: then I said that I would pour out my wrath upon them in 
the wilderness, to accomplish mine anger upon them.   But I wrought so that my name might not be at all profaned 
before the Gentiles; and I brought them out in their sight.   I lifted up my hand against them in 
the wilderness, that I would scatter them among the Gentiles, and 
disperse them in the countries;   
because they kept not mine ordinances, and rejected my commandments, and 
profaned my sabbaths, and their eyes went after the imaginations of their 
fathers.   So I gave them commandments that 
were not good, and ordinances in which they should not live.   And I will defile them by their own 
decrees, when I pass through upon every one that opens the womb, that I may 
destroy them.  Therefore, son of man, speak to the 
house of Israel, and thou shalt say to them, Thus saith the Lord: Hitherto have 
your fathers provoked me in their trespasses in which they transgressed against 
me.   Whereas I brought them into 
the land concerning which I lifted up mine hand to give it them; and they looked 
upon every high hill, and every shady tree, and they sacrificed there to their 
gods, and offered there sweet-smelling savour, and there they poured out their 
drink-offerings.   And I said to 
them, What is Abama, that ye go in thither? and they called its name Abama, 
until this day.   Therefore say to the house of Israel, 
Thus saith the Lord, Do ye pollute yourselves with the iniquities of your 
fathers, and do ye go a-whoring after their abominations,   and do ye pollute yourselves with the 
first-fruits of your gifts, in the offerings wherewith ye pollute yourselves in 
all your imaginations, until this day; and shall I answer you, O house of 
Israel? As I live, saith the Lord, I will not answer you, neither shall 
this thing come upon your spirit.   And it shall not be as ye say, We will be as the nations, and as 
the tribes of the earth, to worship stocks and stones.  Therefore, as I live, saith 
the Lord, I will reign over you with a strong hand, and with a high arm, and 
with outpoured wrath:   I will 
bring you out from the nations, and will take you out of the lands wherein ye 
were dispersed, with a strong hand, and with a high arm, and with outpoured 
wrath.   And I will bring you into 
the wilderness of the nations, and will plead with you there face to face.
  As I pleaded with your fathers in the 
wilderness of the land of Egypt, so will I judge you, saith the Lord.   And I will cause you to pass under my 
rod, and I will bring you in by number.   And I will separate from among you the ungodly and the revolters; 
for I will lead them forth out of their place of sojourning, and they shall not 
enter into the land of Israel: and ye shall know that I am the Lord, even 
the Lord.   And as to you, O house of 
Israel, thus saith the Lord, even the Lord; Put away each one his evil 
practices, and hereafter if ye hearken to me, then shall ye no more profane my 
holy name by your gifts and by devices.   For upon my holy mountain, on the high mountain, saith the Lord,
even the Lord, there shall all the house of Israel serve me for ever: and 
there will I accept you, and there will I have respect to your 
first-fruits, and the first-fruits of your offerings, in all your holy things.
  I will accept you with a 
sweet-smelling savour, when I bring you out from the nations, and take you out 
of the countries wherein ye have been dispersed; and I will be sanctified among 
you in the sight of the nations.   
And ye shall know that I am the Lord, when I have brought you into the land of 
Israel, into the land concerning which I lifted up my hand to give it to your 
fathers.   And ye shall there 
remember your ways, and your devices wherewith ye defiled yourselves; and ye 
shall bewail yourselves for all your wickedness.   And ye shall know that I am the Lord, when I have done thus to 
you, that my name may not be profaned in your evil ways, and in your corrupt 
devices, saith the Lord.  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, set thy face 
against Thaeman, and look toward Darom, and prophesy against the chief forest of 
Nageb,   and thou shalt say to the 
forest of Nageb, Hear the word of the Lord; thus saith the Lord, even the 
Lord; Behold, I will kindle a fire in thee, and it shall devour in thee 
every green tree, and every dry tree: the flame that is kindled shall not be 
quenched, and every face shall be scorched with it from the south to the north.
  And all flesh shall know that I 
the Lord have kindled it: it shall not be quenched.   And I said, Not so, O Lord God! they 
say to me, Is not this that is spoken a parable?  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   Therefore prophesy, son of man, set 
thy face steadfastly toward Jerusalem, and look toward their holy places, and 
thou shalt prophesy against the land of Israel,   and thou shalt say to the land of Israel, Thus saith the Lord; 
Behold, I am against thee, and I will draw forth my sword out of its sheath, and 
I will destroy out of thee the transgressor and unrighteous.   Because I will destroy out of thee the 
unrighteous and the transgressor, therefore so shall my sword come forth 
out of its sheath against all flesh from the south to the north:   and all flesh shall know that I the Lord 
have drawn forth my sword out of its sheath: it shall not return any more.
  And thou, son of man, groan with the 
breaking of thy loins; thou shalt even groan heavily in their sight.   And it shall come to pass, if they shall 
say to thee, Wherefore dost thou groan? that thou shalt say, For the report; 
because it comes: and every heart shall break, and all hands shall become 
feeble, and all flesh and every spirit shall faint, and all thighs shall be 
defiled with moisture: behold, it comes, saith the Lord.  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, prophesy, and 
thou shalt say, Thus saith the Lord; Say, Sword, sword, be sharpened and rage,
  that thou mayest slay victims; be 
sharpened that thou mayest be bright, ready for slaughter, slay, set at nought, 
despise every tree.   And he made 
it ready for his hand to hold: the sword is sharpened, it is ready to put into 
the hand of the slayer.   Cry out and howl, son of man: for 
this sword is come upon my people, this sword is come upon all the 
princes of Israel: they shall be as strangers: judgment with the sword is 
come upon my people: therefore clap thine hands, for sentence has been passed:
  and what if even the tribe be 
rejected? it shall not be, saith the Lord God.   And thou, son of man, prophesy, and 
clap thine hands, and take a second sword: the third sword is the sword 
of the slain, the great sword of the slain: and thou shalt strike them with 
amazement, lest the heart should faint   and the weak ones be multiplied at every gate—they are given up 
to the slaughter of the sword: it is well fitted for slaughter, it is well 
fitted for glittering.   And do 
thou go on, sharpen thyself on the right and on the left whithersoever thy face 
may set itself.   And I also will clap my hands, and 
let loose my fury: I the Lord have spoken it.  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   and thou, son of man, 
appoint thee two ways, that the sword of the king of Babylon may enter in: the 
two shall go forth of one country; and there shall be a force at the top 
of the way of the city, thou shalt set it at the top of the way,   that the sword may enter in upon Rabbath 
of the children of Ammon, and upon Judea, and upon Jerusalem in the midst 
thereof.   For the king of Babylon shall stand 
on the old way, at the head of the two ways, to use divination, to make bright 
the arrow, and to enquire of the graven images, and to examine the victims.
  On his right was the divination 
against Jerusalem, to cast a mound, to open the mouth in shouting, to lift up 
the voice with crying, to cast a mound against her gates, to cast up a heap, and 
to build forts.   And he was to 
them as one using divination before them, and he himself recounting his 
iniquities, that they might be borne in mind.   Therefore thus saith the Lord, 
Because ye have caused your iniquities to be remembered, in the discovery of 
your wickedness, so that your sins should be seen, in all your wickedness and in 
your evil practices; because ye have caused remembrance of them, 
in these shall ye be taken.   And 
thou profane wicked prince of Israel, whose day, even an end, is come in 
a sea of iniquity, thus saith the Lord;   Thou hast taken off the mitre and put on the crown, it shall not 
have such another after it: thou hast abased that which was high, and 
exalted that which was low.   
Injustice, injustice, injustice, will I make it: woe to it: such shall it be 
until he comes to whom it belongs; and I will deliver it to him.  And thou, son of man, prophesy, and 
thou shalt say, Thus saith the Lord, concerning the children of Ammon, and 
concerning their reproach; and thou shalt say, O sword, sword, drawn for 
slaughter, and drawn for destruction, awake, that thou mayest gleam.   While thou art seeing vain visions, 
and while thou art prophesying falsehoods, to bring thyself upon the necks of 
ungodly transgressors, the day is come, even an end, in a season of 
iniquity.   Turn, rest not in this place wherein 
thou wert born: in thine own land will I judge thee.   And I will pour out my wrath upon thee, I will blow upon 
thee with the fire of my wrath, and I will deliver thee into the hands of 
barbarians skilled in working destruction.   Thou shalt be fuel for fire; thy blood shall be in the midst of 
thy land; there shall be no remembrance at all of thee: for I the Lord have 
spoken it.  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   And thou, son of man, 
wilt thou judge the bloody city? yea, declare thou to her all her iniquities.
  And thou shalt say, Thus saith the 
Lord God: O city that sheds blood in the midst of her, so that her time should 
come, and that forms devices against herself, to defile herself;   in their blood which thou hast shed, thou 
hast transgressed; and in thy devices which thou hast formed, thou hast polluted 
thyself; and thou hast brought nigh thy days, and hast brought on the time of 
thy years: therefore have I made thee a reproach to the Gentiles, and a mockery 
to all the countries,   to those 
near thee, and to those far distant from thee; and they shall mock thee, thou 
that art notoriously unclean, and abundant in iniquities.   Behold, the princes of the house of 
Israel have conspired in thee each one with his kindred, that they might shed 
blood.   In thee they have reviled 
father and mother; and in thee they have behaved unjustly toward the stranger: 
they have oppressed the orphan and widow.   And they have set at nought my holy things, and in thee they have 
profaned my sabbaths.   There are 
robbers in thee, to shed blood in thee; and in thee they have eaten upon the 
mountains: they have wrought ungodliness in the midst of thee.   In thee they have uncovered the father’s 
shame; and in thee they have humbled her that was set apart for uncleanness.
  They have dealt unlawfully each 
one with his neighbor’s wife; and each one in ungodliness has defiled his 
daughter-in-law: and in thee they have humbled each one his sister, the daughter 
of his father.   In thee they have received gifts to 
shed blood; they have received in thee interest and usurious increase; and by 
oppression thou hast brought thy wickedness to the full, and hast forgotten me, 
saith the Lord.   And if I shall smite my hand at 
thine iniquities which thou hast accomplished, which thou hast wrought, and 
at thy blood that has been shed in the midst of thee,   shall thy heart endure? shall thine hands be strong in the 
days which I bring upon thee? I the Lord have spoken, and will do it.
  And I will scatter thee among the 
nations, and disperse thee in the countries, and thy uncleanness shall be 
removed out of thee.   And I will 
give heritages in thee in the sight of the nations, and ye shall know that I am 
the Lord.  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, behold, the 
house of Israel are all become to me as it were mixed with brass, and 
iron, and tin, and lead; they are mixed up in the midst of the silver.   Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord 
God; Because ye have become one mixture, therefore I will gather you into the 
midst of Jerusalem.   As silver, 
and brass, and iron, and tin, and lead, are gathered into the midst of the 
furnace, to blow fire into it, that they may be melted: so will I take you 
in my wrath, and I will gather and melt you.   And I will blow upon you in the fire of my wrath, and ye shall be 
melted in the midst thereof.   As 
silver is melted in the midst of a furnace, so shall ye be melted in the midst 
thereof; and ye shall know that I the Lord have poured out my wrath upon you.  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, say to her, 
Thou art the land that is not rained upon, neither has rain come upon thee in 
the day of wrath;   whose princes 
in the midst of her are as roaring lions seizing prey, devouring souls by 
oppression, and taking bribes; and thy widows are multiplied in the midst of 
thee.   Her priests also have set 
at nought my law, and profaned my holy things: they have not distinguished 
between the holy and profane, nor have they distinguished between the unclean 
and the clean, and have hid their eyes from my sabbaths, and I was profaned in 
the midst of them.   Her princes in 
the midst of her are as wolves ravening to shed blood, that they may get 
dishonest gain.   And her prophets 
that daub them shall fall, that see vanities, that prophesy falsehoods, saying, 
Thus saith the Lord, when the Lord has not spoken.   That sorely oppress the people of the land with injustice, 
and commit robbery; oppressing the poor and needy, and not dealing justly with 
the stranger.   And I sought from among them a man 
behaving uprightly, and standing before me perfectly in the time of wrath, so 
that I should not utterly destroy her: but I found him not.   So I have poured out my wrath upon her 
in the fury of mine anger, to accomplish it. I have recompensed their 
ways on their own heads, saith the Lord God.  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   Son of man, there were 
two women, daughters of one mother:   and they went a-whoring in Egypt in their youth: there their 
breasts fell, there they lost their virginity.   And their names were Oola the elder, and Ooliba her sister: and 
they were mine, and bore sons and daughters: and as for their names, 
Samaria was Oola, and Jerusalem was Ooliba.   And Oola went a-whoring from me, and 
doted on her lovers, on the Assyrians that were her neighbors,   clothed with purple, princes and 
captains; they were young men and choice, all horseman riding on horses.
  And she bestowed her fornication 
upon them; all were choice sons of the Assyrians: and on whomsoever she doted 
herself, with them she defiled herself in all their devices.   And she forsook not her fornication with 
the Egyptians: for in her youth they committed fornication with her, and they 
deflowered her, and poured out their fornication upon her.   Therefore I delivered her into the hands 
of her lovers, into the hands of the children of the Assyrians, on whom she 
doted.   They uncovered her shame: 
they took her sons and daughters, and slew her with the sword: and she became a 
byword among women: and they wrought vengeance in her for the sake of the 
daughters.  And her sister Ooliba saw it, 
and she indulged in her fondness more corruptly than she, and in her fornication 
more than the fornication of her sister.   She doted upon the sons of the Assyrian, princes and captains, 
her neighbours, clothed with fine linen, horsemen riding on horses; they were 
all choice young men.   And I saw 
that they were defiled, that the two had one way.   And she increased her fornication, 
and she saw men painted on the wall, likenesses of the Chaldeans painted with a 
pencil,   having variegated girdles 
on their loins, having also richly dyed attire upon their heads; all had 
a princely appearance, the likeness of the children of the Chaldeans, of their 
native land.   And she doted upon 
them as soon as she saw them, and sent forth messengers to them into the land of 
the Chaldeans.   And the sons of 
Babylon came to her, into the bed of rest, and they defiled her in her 
fornication, and she was defiled by them, and her soul was alienated from them.
  And she exposed her fornication, 
and exposed her shame: and my soul was alienated from her, even as my soul was 
alienated from her sister.   And thou didst multiply thy 
fornication, so as to call to remembrance the days of thy youth, wherein thou 
didst commit whoredom in Egypt,   
and thou didst dote upon the Chaldeans, whose flesh is as the flesh of the 
asses, and their members as the members of horses.   And thou didst look upon the iniquity of thy youth, 
the things which thou wroughtest in Egypt in thy lodgings, where were the 
breasts of thy youth.  Therefore, Ooliba, thus saith the 
Lord; Behold, I will stir up thy lovers against thee, from whom thy soul 
is alienated, and I will bring them upon thee round about,   the children of Babylon, and all the 
Chaldeans, Phacuc, and Sue, and Hychue, and all the sons of the Assyrians with 
them; choice young men, governors and captains, all princes and renowned, riding 
on horses.   And they all shall 
come upon thee from the north, chariots and wheels, with a multitude of nations, 
shields and targets; and the enemy shall set a watch against thee round 
about: and I will set judgment before them, and they shall take vengeance on 
thee with their judgments.   And I 
will bring upon thee my jealousy, and they shall deal with thee in great wrath: 
they shall take away thy nose and thine ears; and shall cast down thy remnant 
with the sword: they shall take thy sons and thy daughters; and thy remnant fire 
shall devour.   And they shall 
strip thee of thy raiment, and take away thine ornaments.   So I will turn back thine ungodliness 
from thee, and thy fornication from the land of Egypt: and thou shalt not lift 
up thine eyes upon them, and shalt no more remember Egypt.   Wherefore thus saith the Lord God; 
Behold, I will deliver thee into the hands of those whom thou hatest, 
from whom thy soul is alienated.   
And they shall deal with thee in hatred, and shall take all the fruits of 
thy labours and thy toils, and thou shalt be naked and bare: and the shame of 
thy fornication shall be exposed: and thy ungodliness and thy fornication   brought this upon thee, in that thou 
wentest a-whoring after the nations, and didst defile thyself with their 
devices.   Thou didst walk in the way of thy 
sister; and I will put her cup into thine hands.   Thus saith the Lord; Drink thy sister’s cup, deep and large, and 
full, to cause complete drunkenness.   And thou shalt be thoroughly weakened; and the cup of 
destruction, the cup of thy sister Samaria,   drink thou it, and I will take away her feasts and her new moons: 
for I have spoken it, saith the Lord.   Therefore thus saith the Lord; Because thou has forgotten me, and 
cast me behind thy back, therefore receive thou the reward of thine 
ungodliness and thy fornication.  And the Lord said to me, Son of man, 
wilt thou not judge Oola and Ooliba? and declare to them their iniquities?
  For they have committed adultery, 
and blood was in their hands, they committed adultery with their devices, and 
they passed through the fire to them their children which they bore to me.
  So long too as they did these 
things to me, they defiled my sanctuary, and profaned my sabbaths.   And when they sacrificed their children 
to their idols, they also went into my sanctuary to profane it: and whereas they 
did thus in the midst of my house;   and whereas they did thus to the men that came from afar, to whom 
they sent messengers, and as soon as they came, immediately thou didst wash 
thyself, and didst paint thine eyes and adorn thyself with ornaments,   and satest on a prepared bed, and before 
it there was a table set out, and as for mine incense and mine 
oil, they rejoiced in them,   and 
they raised a sound of music, and that with men coming from the 
wilderness out of a multitude of men, and they put bracelets on their hands, and 
a crown of glory on their heads;   Therefore I said, Do they not commit 
adultery with these? and has she also gone a-whoring after the manner of 
a harlot?   And they went in to 
her, as men go in to a harlot; so they went in to Oola and to Ooliba to 
work iniquity.   And they are just 
men, and shall take vengeance on them with the judgment of an adulteress and the 
judgment of blood: for they are adulteresses, and blood is in their hands.
  Thus saith the Lord God, Bring up a 
multitude upon them, and send trouble and plunder into the midst of them.   And stone them with the stones of a 
multitude, and pierce them with their swords: they shall slay their sons and 
their daughters, and shall burn up their houses.   And I will remove ungodliness out of the land, and all the women 
shall be instructed, and shall not do according to their ungodliness.   And your ungodliness shall be 
recompensed upon you, and ye shall bear the guilt of your devices: and ye shall 
know that I am the Lord.  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, in the ninth year, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, 
saying,   Son of man, write for 
thyself daily from this day, on which the king of Babylon set himself against 
Jerusalem, even from this day.   And speak a parable to the provoking house, and thou shalt say to 
them,   Thus saith the Lord; Set on the caldron, and pour water into 
it:   and put the pieces into it, 
every prime piece, the leg and shoulder taken off from the bones,   which are taken from choice 
cattle, and burn the bones under them: her bones are boiled and cooked in the 
midst of her.   Therefore thus saith the Lord; O 
bloody city, the caldron in which there is scum, and the scum has not gone out 
of, she has brought it forth piece by piece, no lot has fallen upon it.   For her blood is in the midst of her; I 
have set it upon a smooth rock: I have not poured it out upon the earth, so that 
the earth should cover it;   that my 
wrath should come up for complete vengeance to be taken: I set her blood upon a 
smooth rock, so as not to cover it.   Therefore thus saith the Lord, I will 
also make the firebrand great,   
and I will multiply the wood, and kindle the fire, that the flesh may be 
consumed, and the liquor boiled away;   and that it may stand upon the coals, that her brass may 
be thoroughly heated, and be melted in the midst of her filthiness, and her scum 
may be consumed,   and her abundant 
scum may not come forth of her.   
Her scum shall become shameful, because thou didst defile thyself: and what if 
thou shalt be purged no more until I have accomplished my wrath?   I the Lord have spoken; and it shall 
come, and I will do it; I will not delay, neither will I have any mercy: 
I will judge thee, saith the Lord, according to thy ways, and according to thy 
devices: therefore will I judge thee according to thy bloodshed, and according 
to thy devices will I judge thee, thou unclean, notorious, and abundantly 
provoking one.  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, behold I take 
from thee the desire of thine eyes by violence: thou shalt not lament, neither 
shalt thou weep.   Thou shalt groan 
for blood, and have mourning upon thy loins; thy hair shall not be braided upon 
thee, and thy sandals shall be on thy feet; thou shalt in no wise be 
comforted by their lips, and thou shalt not eat the bread of men.   And I spoke to the people in the 
morning, as he commanded me in the evening, and I did in the morning as it was 
commanded me.   And the people said 
to me, Wilt thou not tell us what these things are that thou doest?   Then I said to them, The word of the 
Lord came to me, saying,   Say to 
the house of Israel,   Thus saith the Lord; Behold, I will profane my 
sanctuary, the boast of your strength, the desire of your eyes, and for which 
your souls are concerned; and your sons and your daughters, whom ye have left, 
shall fall by the sword.   And ye 
shall do as I have done: ye shall not be comforted at their mouth, and ye shall 
not eat the bread of men.   And 
your hair shall be upon your head, and your shoes on your feet: neither 
shall ye at all lament or weep; but ye shall pine away in your iniquities, and 
shall comfort every one his brother.   And Jezekiel shall be for a sign to you: according to all that I 
have done shall ye do, when these things shall come; and ye shall know that I am 
the Lord.   And thou, son of man, shall it 
not be in the day when I take their strength from them, the pride of 
their boasting, the desires of their eyes, and the pride of their soul, their 
sons and their daughters,   that in 
that day he that escapes shall come to thee, to tell it thee in thine 
ears?   In that day thy mouth shall 
be opened to him that escapes; thou shalt speak, and shalt be no longer dumb: 
and thou shalt be for a sign to them, and they shall know that I am the Lord.  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   Son of man, set thy 
face steadfastly against the children of Ammon, and prophesy against them;
  and thou shalt say to the children 
of Ammon,   Hear ye the word of the Lord; thus saith the Lord; Forasmuch 
as ye have rejoiced against my sanctuary, because it was profaned; and against 
the land of Israel, because it was laid waste; and against the house of Juda, 
because they went into captivity;   
therefore, behold, I will deliver you to the children of Kedem for an 
inheritance, and they shall lodge in thee with their stuff, and they shall pitch 
their tents in thee: they shall eat thy fruits, and they shall drink thy milk.
  And I will give up the city of 
Ammon for camels’ pastures, and the children of Ammon for a pasture of sheep: 
and ye shall know that I am the Lord.   For thus saith the Lord; Because thou 
hast clapped thine hands, and stamped with thy foot, and heartily rejoiced 
against the land of Israel;   
therefore I will stretch out my hand against thee, and I will make thee a spoil 
to the nations; and I will utterly destroy thee from among the peoples, and I 
will completely cut thee off from out of the countries: and thou shalt know that 
I am the Lord.  Thus saith the Lord; Because Moab has 
said, Behold, are not the house of Israel and Juda like all the other 
nations?   Therefore, behold, I will 
weaken the shoulder of Moab from his frontier cities, even the choice 
land, the house of Bethasimuth above the fountain of the city, by the sea-side.
  I have given him the children of 
Kedem in addition to the children of Ammon for an inheritance, that there may be 
no remembrance of the children of Ammon.   And I will execute vengeance on Moab; and they shall know that I 
am the Lord.   Thus saith the Lord; Because of what 
the Idumeans have done in taking vengeance on the house of Juda, and because 
they have remembered injuries, and have exacted full recompense;   therefore thus saith the Lord; I will 
also stretch out my hand upon Idumea, and will utterly destroy out of it man and 
beast; and will make it desolate; and they that are pursued out of Thaeman shall 
fall by the sword.   And I will 
execute my vengeance on Idumea by the hand of my people Israel: and they shall 
deal in Idumea according to mine anger and according to my wrath, and they shall 
know my vengeance, saith the Lord.   Therefore thus saith the Lord, 
Because the Philistines have wrought revengefully, and raised up vengeance 
rejoicing from their heart to destroy the Israelites to a man;   therefore thus saith the Lord; Behold, I
will stretch out my hand upon the Philistines, and will utterly destroy 
the Cretans, and will cut off the remnant that dwell by the sea-coast.   And I will execute great vengeance upon 
them; and they shall know that I am the Lord, when I have brought my vengeance 
upon them.  And it came to pass in the eleventh 
year, on the first day of the month, that the word of the Lord 
came to me, saying,   Son of man, because Sor has said 
against Jerusalem, Aha, she is crushed: the nations are destroyed: she is turned 
to me: she that was full is made desolate:   therefore thus saith the Lord; Behold, I am against thee, O Sor, 
and I will bring up many nations against thee, as the sea comes up with its 
waves.   And they shall cast down 
the walls of Sor, and shall cast down thy towers: and I will scrape her dust 
from off her, and make her a bare rock.   She shall be in the midst of the sea a place for repairing nets: 
for I have spoken it, saith the Lord: and it shall be a spoil for the 
nations.   And her daughters 
which are in the field shall be slain with the sword, and they shall know 
that I am the Lord.   For thus saith the Lord; Behold, I 
will bring up against thee, O Sor, Nabuchodonosor king of Babylon from the 
north: he is a king of kings, with horses, and chariots, and horsemen, and a 
concourse of very many nations.   He 
shall slay thy daughters that are in the field with the sword, and shall set a 
watch against thee, and build forts around thee, and carry a rampart round 
against thee, and set up warlike works, and array his spears against thee.
  He shall cast down with his swords 
thy walls and thy towers.   By 
reason of thy multitude of his horses their dust shall cover thee, and by reason 
of the sound of his horsemen and the wheels of his chariots the walls shall be 
shaken, when he enters into thy gates, as one entering into a city from the 
plain.   With the hoofs of his 
horses they shall trample all thy streets: he shall slay thy people with the 
sword, and shall bring down to the ground the support of thy strength.   And he shall prey upon thy power, and 
plunder thy substance, and shall cast down thy walls, and break down thy 
pleasant houses: and he shall cast thy stones and thy timber and thy dust into 
the midst of thy sea.   And he 
shall destroy the multitude of thy musicians, and the sound of thy psalteries 
shall be heard no more.   And I 
will make thee a bare rock: thou shalt be a place to spread nets upon; thou 
shalt be built no more: for I the Lord have spoken it, saith the Lord.  For thus saith the Lord God to Sor; 
Shall not the isles shake at the sound of thy fall, while the wounded are 
groaning, while they have drawn a sword in the midst of thee?   And all the princes of the nations of 
the sea shall come down from their thrones, and shall take off their crowns from 
their heads, and shall take off their embroidered raiment: they shall be utterly 
amazed; they shall sit upon the ground, and fear their own destruction, 
and shall groan over thee.   And 
they shall take up a lamentation for thee, and shall say to thee, How art thou 
destroyed from out of the sea, the renowned city, that brought her terror upon 
all her inhabitants.   And the 
isles shall be alarmed at the day of thy fall.   For thus saith the Lord God; When I 
shall make the city desolate, as the cities that shall not be inhabited, when I 
have brought the deep up upon thee,   and great waters shall cover thee; and I shall bring thee down to 
them that go down to the pit, to the people of old time, and shall cause thee to 
dwell in the depths of the earth, as in everlasting desolation, with them that 
go down to the pit, that thou mayest not be inhabited, nor stand upon the land 
of life;   I will make thee a 
destruction, and thou shalt be no more for ever, saith the Lord God.  And the word of the Lord came to me 
saying,   And thou, son of man, take up a 
lamentation against Sor;   and thou 
shalt say to Sor that dwells at the entrance of the sea, to the mart of the 
nations coming from many islands, Thus saith the Lord to Sor;   Thou hast said, I have clothed myself with my beauty.   In the heart of the sea thy sons have put 
beauty upon thee for Beelim.   Cedar 
in Senir was employed for thee in building: boards of cypress timber were taken 
out of Libanus, and wood to make thee masts of fir.   They made thine oars of wood out of the land of 
Basan; thy sacred utensils they made of ivory, thy shady houses of wood from the 
isles of Chetiim.   Fine linen with 
embroidery from Egypt supplied the couch, to put honour upon thee, and to clothe 
thee with blue and purple from the isles of Elisai; and they became thy 
coverings.   And thy princes were the dwellers in 
Sidon, and the Aradians were thy rowers: thy wise men, O Sor, who were in thee, 
these were thy pilots.   The elders 
of the Biblians, and their wise men, who were in thee, these helped thy counsel: 
and all the ships of the sea and their rowers traded for thee to the utmost 
west.   Persians and Lydians and Libyans were 
in thine army: thy warriors hung in thee shields and helmets; these gave thee 
thy glory.   The sons of the 
Aradians and thine army were upon the walls; there were guards in thy towers: 
they hung their quivers on thy battlements round about; these completed thy 
beauty.   The Carthaginians were thy merchants 
because of the abundance of all thy strength; they furnished thy market with 
silver, and gold, and iron, and tin, and lead.   Greece, both the whole world, and the adjacent coasts, 
these traded with thee in the persons of men, and they gave as thy 
merchandise vessels of brass.   Out of the house of Thogarma horses 
and horsemen furnished the market.   The sons of the Rhodians were thy merchants; from the islands 
they multiplied thy merchandise, even elephants’ teeth: and to them that 
came in thou didst return thy prices,   even men as thy merchandise, from the multitude of 
thy trading population, myrrh and embroidered works from Tharsis: Ramoth 
also and Chorchor furnished thy market.   Juda and the children of Israel, these were thy merchants; in the 
sale of corn and ointments and cassia: and they gave the best honey, and oil, 
and resin, to thy trading population.   The people of Damascus were thy merchants by reason of the 
abundance of all thy power; wine out of Chelbon, and wool from Miletus; and they 
brought wine into thy market.   Out of Asel came wrought iron, 
and there is the sound of wheels among thy trading population.   The people of Daedan were thy 
merchants, with choice cattle for chariots.   Arabia and all the princes of Kedar, these were thy traders with 
thee, bringing camels, and lambs, and rams, in which they trade with 
thee.   The merchants of Sabba and 
Ramma, these were thy merchants, with choice spices, and precious stones: and 
they brought gold to thy market.   
Charra, and Chanaa, these were thy merchants: Assur, and Charman, were thy 
merchants:   bringing for 
merchandise blue, and choice stores bound with cords, and cypress wood.   Ships were thy merchants, in abundance, 
with thy trading population: and thou wast filled and very heavily loaded 
in the heart of the sea.  Thy rowers have brought thee into 
great waters: the south wind has broken thee in the heart of the sea.   Thy forces, and thy gain, and that of 
thy traders, and thy rowers, and thy pilots, and thy counselors, and they that 
traffic with thee, and all thy warriors that are in thee: and all thy company in 
the midst of thee shall perish in the heart of the sea, in the day of thy fall.
  At the cry of thy voice thy 
pilots shall be greatly terrified.   And all the rowers and the mariners 
shall come down from the ships, and the pilots of the sea shall stand on the 
land.   And they shall wail over 
thee with their voice, and cry bitterly, and put earth on their heads, and 
spread ashes under them.   And their sons shall take up a 
lament for thee, even a lamentation for Sor, saying,   How large a reward hast thou gained from 
the sea? thou hast filled nations out of thine abundance; and out of thy mixed 
merchandise thou hast enriched all the kings of the earth.   Now art thou broken in the sea, thy 
traders are in the deep water, and all thy company in the midst of thee: all thy 
rowers have fallen.   All the 
dwellers in the islands have mourned over thee, and their kings have been 
utterly amazed, and their countenance has wept.   Merchants from the nations have hissed at thee; thou art utterly 
destroyed, and shalt not be any more for ever.  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   And thou, son of man, say to the 
prince of Tyrus, Thus saith the Lord; Because thine heart has been exalted, and 
thou hast said, I am God, I have inhabited the dwelling of God in the heart of 
the sea; yet thou art man and not God, though thou hast set thine heart as the 
heart of God:   art thou wiser than 
Daniel? or have not the wise instructed thee with their knowledge?   Hast thou gained power for thyself by 
thine own knowledge or thine own prudence, and gotten gold 
and silver in thy treasures?   By 
thy abundant knowledge and thy traffic thou hast multiplied thy power; thy heart 
has been lifted up by thy power.   Therefore thus saith the Lord; Since 
thou hast set thine heart as the hart of God;   because of this, behold, I will bring on thee strange 
plagues from the nations; and they shall draw their swords against thee, and 
against the beauty of thy knowledge,   and they shall bring down thy beauty to destruction. And they 
shall bring thee down; and thou shalt die the death of the slain in the heart of 
the sea.   Wilt thou indeed say, I 
am God, before them that slay thee? whereas thou art man, and not God.   Thou shalt perish by the hands of 
strangers among the multitude of the uncircumcised: for I have spoken it, saith 
the Lord.  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, take up a 
lamentation for the prince of Tyre, and say to him, Thus saith the Lord God; 
Thou art a seal of resemblance, and crown of beauty.   Thou wast in the delight of the paradise of God; thou hast 
bound upon thee every precious stone, the sardius, and topaz, and emerald, and 
carbuncle, and sapphire, and jasper, and silver, and gold, and ligure, and 
agate, and amethyst, and chrysolite, and beryl, and onyx: and thou hast filled 
thy treasures and thy stores in thee with gold.   From the day that thou wast created thou wast with the 
cherub: I set thee on the holy mount of God; thou wast in the midst of the 
stones of fire.   Thou wast 
faultless in thy days, from the day that thou wast created, until iniquity was 
found in thee.   Of the abundance of thy merchandise 
thou hast filled thy storehouses with iniquity, and hast sinned: therefore thou 
hast been cast down wounded from the mount of God, and the cherub has brought 
thee out of the midst of the stones of fire.   Thy heart has been lifted up because of thy beauty; thy knowledge 
has been corrupted with thy beauty: because of the multitude of thy sins I have 
cast thee to the ground, I have caused thee to be put to open shame before 
kings.   Because of the multitude 
of thy sins and the iniquities of thy merchandise, I have profaned thy sacred 
things; and I will bring fire out of the midst of thee, this shall devour thee; 
and I will make thee to be ashes upon thy land before all that see thee.
  And all that know thee among the 
nations shall groan over thee: thou art gone to destruction, and thou shalt not 
exist any more.  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, set thy face 
against Sidon, and prophesy against it,   and say, Thus saith the Lord; Behold, I am against thee, O Sidon; 
and I will be glorified in thee; and thou shalt know that I am the Lord, when I 
have wrought judgments in thee, and I will be sanctified in thee.   Blood and death shall be in thy 
streets; and men wounded with swords shall fall in thee and on every side 
of thee; and they shall know that I am the Lord.   And there shall no more be in the house of Israel a thorn of 
bitterness and a pricking briar proceeding from them that are round about them, 
who dishonoured them; and they shall know that I am the Lord.   Thus saith the Lord God; I will also 
gather Israel from the nations, among whom they have been scattered, and I will 
be sanctified among them, and before the peoples and nations: and they shall 
dwell upon their land, which I gave to my servant Jacob.   Yea, they shall dwell upon it safely, and they shall 
build houses, and plant vineyards, and dwell securely, when I shall execute 
judgment on all that have dishonoured them, even on those that are 
round about them; and they shall know that I am the Lord their God, and the God 
of their fathers.  In the twelfth year, in the tenth 
month, on the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, set thy face 
against Pharao king of Egypt, and prophesy against him, and against the whole of 
Egypt:   and say,   Thus saith the Lord; Behold, I am against Pharao, the great 
dragon that lies in the midst of his rivers, that says, The rivers are mine, and 
I made them.   And I will put hooks 
in thy jaws, and I will cause the fish of thy river to stick to thy sides, and I 
will bring thee up out of the midst of thy river:   and I will quickly cast down thee and all the fish of thy river: 
thou shalt fall on the face of the plain, and shalt by no means be gathered, and 
shalt not be brought together: I have given thee for food to the wild beasts of 
the earth and to the fowls of the sky.   And all the dwellers in Egypt shall know that I am the Lord, 
because thou hast been a staff of reed to the house of Israel.   When they took hold of thee with their 
hand, thou didst break: and when every hand was clapped against them, and when 
they leaned on thee, thou wast utterly broken, and didst crush the loins of them 
all.  Therefore thus saith the Lord; Behold, 
I will bring a sword upon thee, and will cut off from thee man and beast;
  and the land of Egypt shall be 
ruined and desert; and they shall know that I am the Lord; because thou sayest, 
The rivers are mine, and I made them.   Therefore, behold, I am against thee, 
and against all thy rivers, and I will give up the land of Egypt to desolation, 
and the sword, and destruction, from Magdol and Syene even to the borders of the 
Ethiopians.   No foot of man shall 
pass through it, and no foot of beast shall pass through it, and it shall not be 
inhabited for forty years.   And I will cause her land to be 
utterly destroyed in the midst of a land that is desolate, and her cities shall 
be desolate forty years in the midst of cities that are desolate: and I 
will disperse Egypt among the nations, and will utterly scatter them into the 
countries.   Thus saith the Lord; After forty 
years I will gather the Egyptians from the nations among whom they have been 
scattered;   and I will turn the 
captivity of the Egyptians, and will cause them to dwell in the land of 
Phathore, in the land whence they were taken;   and it shall be a base kingdom beyond all other kingdoms; 
it shall not any more be exalted over the nations; and I will make them few in 
number, that they may not be great among the nations.   And they shall no more be to the house 
of Israel a confidence bringing iniquity to remembrance, when they follow after 
them; and they shall know that I am the Lord.  And it came to pass in the 
twenty-seventh year, on the first day of the month, the word of the Lord 
came to me, saying,   Son of man, Nabuchodonosor king of 
Babylon caused his army to serve a great service against Tyre; every head was 
bald, and every shoulder peeled; yet there was no reward to him or to his army
serving against Tyre, nor for the service wherewith they served against 
it.   Thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I 
will give to Nabuchodonosor king of Babylon the land of Egypt, and he shall 
take the plunder thereof, and seize the spoils thereof; and it shall be a 
reward for his army.   In return 
for his service wherewith he served against Tyre, I have given him the land of 
Egypt; thus saith the Lord God:   In that day shall a horn spring forth 
for all the house of Israel, and I will give thee an open mouth in the midst of 
them; and they shall know that I am the Lord.  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   Son of man, prophesy, 
and say, Thus saith the Lord; Woe, woe worth the day!   For the day of the Lord is nigh, a day of 
cloud; it shall be the end of the nations.   And the sword shall come upon the 
Egyptians, and there shall be tumult in Ethiopia, and in Egypt men shall 
fall down slain together, and her foundations shall fall.   Persians, and Cretans, and Lydians, and Libyans, and all 
the mixed multitude, and they of the children of my covenant, shall fall by the 
sword therein.   And the supports of 
Egypt shall fall; and the pride of her strength shall come down from Magdol to 
Syene: they shall fall by the sword in it, saith the Lord.   And it shall be made desolate in the 
midst of desolate countries, and their cities shall be desolate in the 
midst of desolate cities:   and they 
shall know that I am the Lord, when I shall send fire upon Egypt, and when 
all that help her shall be broken.   In that day shall messengers go forth hasting to destroy Ethiopia 
utterly, and there shall be tumult among them in the day of Egypt: for, behold 
it comes.   Thus saith the Lord God; I will also 
destroy the multitude of the Egyptians by the hand of Nabuchodonosor king of 
Babylon,   his hand and his 
people’s; they are plagues sent forth from the nations to destroy the 
land: and they all shall unsheath their swords against Egypt, and the land shall 
be filled with slain.   And I will 
make their rivers desolate, and will destroy the land and the fulness of it by 
the hands of strangers: I the Lord have spoken.   For thus saith the Lord God; I will 
also destroy the nobles from Memphis, and the princes of Memphis out of the land 
of Egypt; and they shall be no more.   And I will destroy the land of Phathore, and will send fire upon 
Tanis, and will execute vengeance on Diospolis.   And I will pour out my wrath upon Sais the strength of Egypt, and 
will destroy the multitude of Memphis.   And I will send fire upon Egypt; and Syene shall be sorely 
troubled; and there shall be a breaking in Diospolis, and waters shall be poured 
out.   The youths of Heliopolis and 
Bubastum shall fall by the sword, and the women shall go into captivity.   And the day shall be darkened in 
Taphnae, when I have broken there the scepters of Egypt: and the pride of her 
strength shall perish there: and a cloud shall cover her, and her daughters 
shall be taken prisoners.   And I 
will execute judgment on Egypt; and they shall know that I am the Lord.  And it came to pass in the eleventh 
year, in the first month, on the seventh day of the month, the word of 
the Lord came to me, saying,   Son 
of man, I have broken the arms of Pharao, king of Egypt; and, behold, it has not 
been bound up to be healed, to have a plaster put upon it, or to be 
strengthened to lay hold of the sword.   Therefore thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I am against Pharao 
king of Egypt, and I will break his strong and outstretched arms, and will smite 
down his sword out of his hand.   
And I will disperse the Egyptians among the nations, and will utterly scatter 
them among the countries.   And I will strengthen the arms of the 
king of Babylon, and put my sword into his hand: and he shall bring it upon 
Egypt, and shall take her plunder and seize her spoils.   Yea, I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, 
and the arms of Pharao shall fail: and they shall know that I am the Lord, when 
I have put my sword into the hands of the king of Babylon, and he shall stretch 
it out over the land of Egypt.   
And I will disperse the Egyptians among the nations, and utterly scatter them 
among the countries; and they all shall know that I am the Lord.  And it came to pass in the eleventh 
year, in the third month, on the first day of the month, the word of the 
Lord came to me, saying,   Son of 
man, say to Pharao king of Egypt, and to his multitude;   To whom hast thou compared thyself in thy haughtiness?   Behold, the Assyrian was a cypress in 
Libanus, and was fair in shoots, and high in stature: his top reached to the 
midst of the clouds.   The water 
nourished him, the depth made him grow tall; she led her rivers round about his 
plants, and she sent forth her streams to all the trees of the field.   Therefore was his stature exalted above 
all the trees of the field, and his branches spread far by the help of much 
water.   All the birds of the sky 
made their nests in his boughs, and under his branches all the wild beasts of 
the field bred; the whole multitude of nations dwelt under his shadow.   And he was fair in his height by reason 
of the multitude of his branches: for his roots were amidst much water.   And such cypresses as this were in 
the paradise of God; and there were no pines like his shoots, and there were no 
firs like his branches: no tree in the paradise of God was like him in his 
beauty,   because of the multitude 
of his branches: and the trees of God’s paradise of delight envied him.  Therefore thus saith the Lord; 
Because thou art grown great, and hast set thy top in the midst of the clouds, 
and I saw when he was exalted;   
therefore I delivered him into the hands of the prince of the nations, and he 
wrought his destruction.   And 
ravaging strangers from the nations have destroyed him, and have cast him down 
upon the mountains: his branches fell in all the valleys, and his boughs were 
broken in every field of the land; and all the people of the nations are gone 
down from their shelter, and have laid him low.   All the birds of the sky have settled 
on his fallen trunk, and all the wild beasts of the field came upon his boughs:
  in order that none of the trees 
by the water should exalt themselves by reason of their size: whereas they set 
their top in the midst of the clouds, yet they continued not in their high state 
in their place, all that drank water, all were consigned to death, to the depth 
of the earth, in the midst of the children of men, with them that go down to the 
pit.   Thus saith the Lord God; In the day 
wherein he went down to Hades, the deep mourned for him: and I stayed her 
floods, and restrained her abundance of water: and Libanus saddened for him, all 
the trees of the field fainted for him.   At the sound of his fall the nations quaked, when I brought him 
down to Hades with them that go down to the pit: and all the trees of Delight 
comforted him in the heart, and the choice of plants of Libanus, all that 
drink water.   For they went down 
to hell with him among the slain with the sword; and his seed, even they 
that dwelt under his shadow, perished in the midst of their life.   To whom art thou compared? descend, 
and be thou debased with the trees of paradise to the depth of the earth: thou 
shalt lie in the midst of the uncircumcised with them that are slain by the 
sword. Thus shall Pharao be, and the multitude of his host, saith the Lord God.  And it came to pass in the twelfth 
year, in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, that the 
word of the Lord came to me, saying,   Son of man, take up a lamentation for Pharao king of Egypt, and 
say to him,   Thou art become like a lion of the nations, and as a serpent 
that is in the sea: and thou didst make assaults with thy rivers, and didst 
disturb the water with thy feet, and didst trample thy rivers.   Thus saith the Lord; I will also cast 
over thee the nets of many nations, and will bring thee up with my hook:   and I will stretch thee upon the earth: 
the fields shall be covered with thee, and I will cause all the birds of 
the sky to settle upon thee, and I will fill with thee all the wild 
beasts of the earth.   And I will 
cast thy flesh upon the mountains, and will saturate them with thy blood.
  And the land shall be drenched 
with thy dung, because of thy multitude upon the mountains: I will fill the 
valleys with thee.   And I will veil 
the heavens when thou art extinguished, and will darken the stars thereof; I 
will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give her light.   All the bodies that give light in 
the sky, shall be darkened over thee, and I will bring darkness upon the earth, 
saith the Lord God.   And I will provoke to anger the heart 
of many people, when I shall lead thee captive among the nations, to a land 
which thou hast not known.   And 
many nations shall mourn over thee, and their kings shall be utterly amazed, 
when my sword flies in their faces, as they wait for their own fall from 
the day of thy fall.   For thus saith the Lord God; The 
sword of the king of Babylon shall come upon thee,   with the swords of mighty men; and I will cast down thy 
strength: they are all destroying ones from the nations, and they shall 
destroy the pride of Egypt, and all her strength shall be crushed.   And I will destroy all her cattle from
beside the great water; and the foot of man shall not trouble it any 
more, and the step of cattle shall no more trample it.   Thus shall their waters then be at rest, and their rivers 
shall flow like oil, saith the Lord,   when I shall give up Egypt to destruction, and the land shall be 
made desolate with the fullness thereof; when I shall scatter all that dwell in 
it, and they shall know that I am the Lord.   There is a lamentation, and thou shalt utter it; and the 
daughters of the nations shall utter it, even for Egypt, and they shall 
mourn for it over all the strength thereof, saith the Lord God.  And it came to pass in the twelfth 
year, in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the month, the word of 
the Lord came to me, saying,   Son of man, lament over the strength 
of Egypt, for the nations shall bring down her daughters dead to the depth of 
the earth, to them that go down to the pit.   They shall fall with him in the midst of them that are 
slain with the sword, and all his strength shall perish: the giants also shall 
say to thee,   Be thou in the depth 
of the pit: to whom art thou superior? yea, go down, and lie with the 
uncircumcised, in the midst of them that are slain with the sword.   There are Assur and all his company: 
all his slain have been laid there:   and their burial is in the depth of the pit, and his company are 
set around about his tomb: all the slain that fell by the sword, who had caused 
the fear of them to be upon the land of the living.   There is Ælam and all his host round 
about his tomb: all the slain that fell by the sword, and the uncircumcised that 
go down to the deep of the earth, who caused their fear to be upon the land of 
the living: and they have received their punishment with them that go down to 
the pit,   in the midst of the 
slain.   There were laid Mosoch, and Thobel, 
and all his strength round about his tomb: all his slain men, all the 
uncircumcised, slain with the sword, who caused their fear to be in the land of 
the living.   And they are laid 
with the giants that fell of old, who went down to Hades with their 
weapons of war: and they laid their swords under their heads, but their 
iniquities were upon their bones, because they terrified all men during their 
life.   And thou shalt lie in the 
midst of the uncircumcised, with them that have been slain by the sword.   There are laid the princes of Assur, 
who yielded their strength to a wound of the sword: these are laid with the 
slain, with them that go down to the pit.   There are the princes of the north,
even all the captains of Assur, who go down slain to Hades: they 
lie uncircumcised among the slain with the sword together with their terror and 
their strength, and they have received their punishment with them that go down 
to the pit.   King Pharao shall see them, and shall 
be comforted over all their force, saith the Lord God.   For I have caused his fear to be upon the land of the 
living yet he shall lie in the midst of the uncircumcised with them that are 
slain with the sword, even Pharao, and all his multitude with him, saith 
the Lord God.  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   Son of man, speak to 
the children of thy people, and thou shalt say to them,   On whatsoever land I shall bring a sword, and the people of 
the land take one man of them, and set him for their watchman:   and he shall see the sword coming upon 
the land, and blow the trumpet, and sound an alarm to the people;   and he that hears the sound of the 
trumpet shall hear indeed, and yet not take heed, and the sword 
shall come upon him, and overtake him, his blood shall be upon his own 
head.   Because he heard the sound 
of the trumpet, and took no heed, his blood shall be upon him: but the other, 
because he took heed, has delivered his soul.   But if the watchman see the sword 
coming, and do not sound the trumpet, and the people do not watch; and the sword 
come, and take a soul from among them, that soul is taken because of its 
iniquity; but the blood thereof will I require at the watchman’s hand.
  And thou, son of man, I have set thee
as a watchman to the house of Israel, and thou shalt hear a word from my 
mouth.   When I say to the sinner, 
Thou shalt surely die; if thou speak not to warn the wicked from his way, 
the wicked himself shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at 
thine hand.   But if thou forewarn 
the wicked of his way to turn from it, and he turn not from his way, he shall 
die in his ungodliness; but thou hast delivered thine own soul.  And thou, son of man, say to the 
house of Israel; Thus have ye spoken, saying, Our errors, and our iniquities 
weigh upon us, and we pine away in them, and how then shall we live?   Say to them, Thus saith the Lord; As 
I live, I desire not the death of the ungodly, as that the ungodly should turn 
from his way and live: turn ye heartily from your way; for why will ye die, O 
house of Israel?   Say to the children of thy people, 
The righteousness of the righteous shall not deliver him, in the day wherein he 
errs: and the iniquity of the ungodly shall not harm him, in the day wherein he 
turns from his iniquity, but the righteous erring shall not be able to 
deliver himself.   When I say to the righteous, Thou 
shalt live; and he trusts in his righteousness, and shall commit iniquity, 
none of his righteousnesses shall be remembered; in his unrighteousness which he 
has wrought, in it shall he die.   And when I say to the ungodly, Thou 
shalt surely die; and he shall turn from his sin, and do judgment and justice,
  and return the pledge, and repay 
that which he has robbed, and walk in the ordinances of life, so as to do 
no wrong; he shall surely live, and shall not die.   None of his sins which he has committed shall be 
remembered: because he has wrought judgment and righteousness; by them shall he 
live.   Yet the children of thy people will 
say, The way of the Lord is not straight: whereas this their way is not 
straight.   When the righteous 
turns away from his righteousness, and shall commit iniquities, then shall he 
die in them.   And when the sinner 
turns from his iniquity, and shall do judgment and righteousness, he shall live 
by them.   And this is that which 
ye said, The way of the Lord is not straight. I will judge you, O house 
of Israel, every one for his ways.   And it came to pass in the tenth year 
of our captivity, in the twelfth month, on the fifth day of the month, 
that one that had escaped from Jerusalem came to me, saying, The city is 
taken.   Now the hand of the Lord 
had come upon me in the evening, before he came; and he opened my mouth, when he 
came to me in the morning: and my mouth was open, it was no longer kept closed.
  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, they that 
inhabit the desolate places on the land of Israel say, Abram was one, and 
he possessed the land: and we are more numerous; to us the land is given for a 
possession.   Therefore say to them, Thus 
saith the Lord God, As I live, surely they that are in the desolate 
places shall fall by swords and they that are in the open plain shall be given 
for food to the wild beasts of the field, and them that are in the fortified 
cities and them that are in the caves I will slay with pestilence.   And I will make the land desert, and the 
pride of her strength shall perish; and the mountains of Israel shall be made 
desolate by reason of no man passing through.   And they shall know that I am the Lord; and I will make their 
land desert, and it shall be made desolate because of all their abominations 
which they have wrought.  And as for thee, son of man, 
the children of thy people are they that speak concerning thee by the walls, and 
in the porches of the houses, and they talk one to another, saying, Let us come 
together, and let us hear the words that proceed from the Lord.   They approach thee as a people comes 
together, and sit before thee, and hear thy words, but they will not do them: 
for there is falsehood in their mouth, and their heart goes after 
their pollutions.   And thou art to 
them as a sound of a sweet, well-tuned psaltery, and they will hear thy words, 
but they will not do them.   But 
whenever it shall come to pass, they will say, Behold, it is come: and 
they shall know that there was a prophet in the midst of them.  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   Son of man, prophesy 
against the shepherds of Israel, prophesy, and say to the shepherds,   Thus saith the Lord God; O shepherds of Israel, do shepherds 
feed themselves? do not the shepherds feed the sheep?   Behold, ye feed on the milk, and clothe yourselves with 
the wool, and slay the fat: but ye feed not my sheep.   The weak one ye have not strengthened, and the sick ye 
have not cherished, and the bruised ye have not bound up, and the stray one ye 
have not turned back, and the lost ye have not sought; and the strong ye have 
wearied with labour.   And my sheep 
were scattered, because there were no shepherds: and they became meat to all the 
wild beasts of the field.   And my 
sheep were scattered on every mountain, and on every high hill: yea, they were 
scattered on the face of the earth, and there was none to seek them out, nor to 
bring them back.  Therefore, ye shepherds, hear the word 
of the Lord.   As I live, 
saith the Lord God, surely because my sheep became a prey, and my sheep became 
meat to all the wild beasts of the field, because there were no shepherds, and 
the shepherds sought not out my sheep, and the shepherds fed themselves, but fed 
not my sheep.   For this cause, O 
shepherds,   thus saith the Lord 
God, Behold, I am against the shepherds; and I will require my sheep at their 
hands, and will turn them back that they shall not feed my sheep, and the 
shepherds shall no longer feed them; and I will deliver my sheep out of their 
mouth, and they shall no longer be meat for them.   For thus saith the Lord God, Behold, 
I will seek out my sheep, and will visit them.   As the shepherd seeks his flock, in the day when there is 
darkness and cloud, in the midst of the sheep that are separated: so will I seek 
out my sheep, and will bring them back from every place where they were 
scattered in the day of cloud and darkness.   And I will bring them out from the Gentiles, and will gather them 
from the countries, and will bring them into their own land, and will feed them 
upon the mountains of Israel, and in the valleys, and in every inhabited place 
of the land.   I will feed them in 
a good pasture, on a high mountain of Israel: and their folds shall be there, 
and they shall lie down, and there shall they rest in perfect prosperity, and 
they shall feed in a fat pasture on the mountains of Israel.   I will feed my sheep, and I will cause 
them to rest; and they shall know that I am the Lord: thus saith the Lord God.
  I will seek that which is lost, 
and I will recover the stray one, and will bind up that which was broken, and 
will strengthen the fainting, and will guard the strong, and will feed them with 
judgment.  And as for you, ye sheep, thus 
saith the Lord God, Behold, I will distinguish between sheep and sheep, 
between rams and he-goats.   
And is it not enough for you that ye fed on the good pasture, that ye 
trampled with your feet the remnant of your pasture? and that ye drank 
the standing water, that ye disturbed the residue with your feet?   So my sheep fed on that which ye had 
trampled with your feet; and they drank the water that had been disturbed by 
your feet.   Therefore thus saith the Lord God; 
Behold, I will separate between the strong sheep and the weak sheep.   Ye did thrust with your sides and 
shoulders, and pushed with your horns, and ye cruelly treated all the sick.
  Therefore I will save my sheep, 
and they shall not be any more for a prey; and will judge between ram and ram.
  And I will raise up one shepherd over 
them, and he shall tend them, even my servant David, and he shall be 
their shepherd;   and I the Lord 
will be to them a God, and David a prince in the midst of them; I the Lord have 
spoken it.   And I will make with 
David a covenant of peace and I will utterly destroy evil beasts from off the 
land; and they shall dwell in the wilderness, and sleep in the forests.   And I will settle them round about my 
mountain; and I will give you the rain, the rain of blessing.   And the trees that are in the field 
shall yield their fruit, and the earth shall yield her strength, and they shall 
dwell in the confidence of peace on their land, and they shall know that I am 
the Lord, when I have broken their yoke; and I will deliver them out of the hand 
of those that enslaved them.   And 
they shall no more be a spoil to the nations, and the wild beasts of the land 
shall no more at all devour them; and they shall dwell safely, and there shall 
be none to make them afraid.   And 
I will raise up for them a plant of peace, and they shall no more perish with 
hunger upon the land, and they shall no more bear the reproach of the nations.
  And they shall know that I am the 
Lord their God, and they my people. O house of Israel, saith the Lord God,
  ye are my sheep, even the sheep 
of my flock, and I am the Lord your God, saith the Lord God.  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   Son of man, set thy 
face against mount Seir, and prophesy against it,   and say to it,   Thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I am against thee, O mount 
Seir, and I will stretch out my hand against thee, and will make thee a waste, 
and thou shalt be made desolate.   
And I will cause desolation in thy cities, and thou shalt be desolate, and thou 
shalt know that I am the Lord.   
Because thou hast been a perpetual enemy, and hast laid wait craftily for the 
house of Israel, with the hand of enemies with a sword, in the time of 
injustice, at the last:   Therefore, as I live, saith the Lord 
God, verily thou hast sinned even to blood, therefore blood shall pursue thee.
  And I will make mount Seir a 
waste, and desolate, and I will destroy from off it men and cattle:   and I will fill thy hills and thy valleys 
with slain men, and in all thy plains there shall fall in thee men slain with 
the sword.   I will make thee a 
perpetual desolation, and thy cities shall not be inhabited any more: and thou 
shalt know that I am the Lord.  Because thou saidst, The two nations 
and the two countries shall be mine, and I shall inherit them; whereas the Lord 
is there:   therefore, as I 
live, saith the Lord, I will even deal with thee according to thine enmity, and 
I will be made known to thee when I shall judge thee:   and thou shalt know that I am the Lord. I have heard the 
voice of thy blasphemies, whereas thou hast said, The desert mountains of Israel 
are given to us for food;   and 
thou hast spoken swelling words against me with thy mouth: I have heard them.
  Thus saith the Lord; When all the 
earth is rejoicing, I will make thee desert.   Thou shalt be desert, O mount Seir, and all Idumea; and it shall 
be utterly consumed: and thou shalt know that I am the Lord their God.  And thou, son of man, prophesy to 
the mountains of Israel, and say to the mountains of Israel, Hear ye the word of 
the Lord:   Thus saith the Lord God; Because the 
enemy has said against you, Aha, the old waste places are become a possession 
for us:   therefore prophesy, and 
say, Thus saith the Lord God; Because ye have been dishonoured, and hated by 
those round about you, that ye might be a possession to the remainder of the 
nations, and ye became a by-word, and a reproach to the nations:   therefore, ye mountains of Israel, hear 
the word of the Lord; Thus saith the Lord to the mountains, and to the hills, 
and to the streams, and to the valleys, and to the places that have been 
made desolate and destroyed, and to the cities that have been deserted, and have 
become a spoil and a trampling to the nations that were left round about;   therefore, thus saith the Lord; Verily in 
the fire of my wrath have I spoken against the rest of the nations, and against 
all Idumea, because they have appropriated my land to themselves for a 
possession with joy, disregarding the lives of the inhabitants, to 
destroy it by plunder:   
therefore prophesy concerning the land of Israel, and say to the mountains, and 
to the hills, and to the valleys, and to the forests, Thus saith the Lord; 
Behold, I have spoken in my jealousy and in my wrath, because ye have borne the 
reproaches of the heathen:   
therefore I will lift up my hand against the nations that are round about you; 
they shall bear their reproach.   But your grapes and your fruits, O 
mountains of Israel, shall my people eat; for they are hoping to come.   For, behold, I am toward you, and I will 
have respect to you, and ye shall be tilled and sown:   and I will multiply men upon you, even all the 
house of Israel to the end: and the cities shall be inhabited, and the desolate 
land shall be built upon.   And I 
will multiply men and cattle upon you; and I will cause you to dwell as at the 
beginning, and will treat you well, as in your former times: and ye shall 
know that I am the Lord.   And I 
will increase men upon you, even my people Israel; and they shall inherit 
you, and ye shall be to them for a possession; and ye shall no more be bereaved 
of them.   Thus saith the Lord God: Because they 
said to thee, Thou land devourest men, and hast been bereaved of thy 
nation;   therefore thou shalt no 
more devour men, and thou shalt no more bereave thy nation, saith the Lord God.
  And there shall no more be heard 
against you the reproach of the nations, and ye shall no more bear the revilings 
of the peoples, saith the Lord God.  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, the house of 
Israel dwelt upon their land, and defiled it by their way, and with their idols, 
and with their uncleannesses; and their way was before me like the uncleanness 
of a removed woman.   So I poured 
out my wrath upon them:   and I 
dispersed them among the nations, and utterly scattered them through the 
countries: I judged them according to their way and according to their sin.
  And they went in among the 
nations, among which they went, and they profaned my holy name, while it was 
said of them, These are the people of the Lord, and they came forth out of his 
land.   But I spared them for the 
sake of my holy name, which the house of Israel profaned among the nations, 
among whom they went.   Therefore say to the house of Israel, 
Thus saith the Lord; I do not this, O house of Israel, for your sakes, but 
because of my holy name, which ye have profaned among the nations, among whom ye 
went.   And I will sanctify my 
great name, which was profaned among the nations, which ye profaned in the midst 
of them; and the nations shall know that I am the Lord, when I am sanctified 
among you before their eyes.   And I will take you out from the 
nations, and will gather you out of all the lands, and will bring you into your 
own land:   and I will sprinkle 
clean water upon you, and ye shall be purged from all your uncleannesses, and 
from all your idols, and I will cleanse you.   And I will give you a new heart, and will put a new spirit in 
you: and I will take away the heart of stone out of your flesh, and will give 
you a heart of flesh.   And I will 
put my Spirit in you, and will cause you to walk in mine ordinances, and to keep 
my judgments, and do them.   And ye shall dwell upon the land which I gave to your fathers; 
and ye shall be to me a people, and I will be to you a God.   And I will save you from all your 
uncleannesses: and I will call for the corn, and multiply it, and will not bring 
famine upon you.   And I will 
multiply the fruit of the trees, and the produce of the field, that ye may not 
bear the reproach of famine among the nations.   And ye shall remember your evil ways 
and your practices that were not good, and ye shall be hateful in your own sight 
for your transgressions and for your abominations.   Not for your sakes do I this, saith the Lord God,
as it is known to you: be ye ashamed and confounded for your ways, O 
house of Israel.   Thus saith the Lord God; In the day 
wherein I shall cleanse you from all your iniquities I will also cause the 
cities to be inhabited, and the waste places shall be built upon:   and the desolate land shall be 
cultivated, whereas it was desolate in the eyes of every one that passed by.
  And they shall say, That desolate 
land is become like a garden of delight; and the waste and desolate and ruined 
cities are inhabited.   And the 
nations, as many as shall have been left round about you, shall know that I the 
Lord have built the ruined cities and planted the waste lands: I 
the Lord have spoken, and will do it.   Thus saith the Lord God; Yet for 
this will I be sought by the house of Israel, to establish them; I will multiply 
them even men as sheep;   as 
holy sheep, as the sheep of Jerusalem in her feasts; thus shall the desert 
cities be full of flocks of men: and they shall know that I am the Lord.  And the hand of the Lord came upon 
me, and the Lord brought me forth by the Spirit, and set me in the midst of the 
plain, and it was full of human bones.   And he led me round about them every way: and, behold, there 
were very many on the face of the plain, very dry.   And he said to me, Son of man, will 
these bones live? and I said, O Lord God, thou knowest this.   And he said to me, Prophesy upon these 
bones, and thou shalt say to them, Ye dry bones, hear the word of the Lord.
  Thus saith the Lord to these 
bones; Behold, I will bring upon you the breath of life:   and I will lay sinews upon you, and will 
bring up flesh upon you, and will spread skin upon you, and will put my Spirit 
into you, and ye shall live; and ye shall know that I am the Lord.   So I prophesied as the Lord 
commanded me: and it came to pass while I was prophesying, that, behold, 
there was a shaking, and the bones approached each one to his joint.   And I looked, and behold, sinews and 
flesh grew upon them, and skin came upon them above: but there was not breath in 
them.   And he said to me, Prophesy 
to the wind, prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, Thus saith the Lord; 
Come from the four winds, and breathe upon these dead men, and let them 
live.   So I prophesied as he 
commanded me, and the breath entered into them, and they lived, and stood upon 
their feet, a very great congregation.   And the Lord spoke to me, saying, Son 
of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel: and they say, Our bones are 
become dry, our hope has perished, we are quite spent.   Therefore prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord; Behold, I
will open your tombs, and will bring you up out of your tombs, and will 
bring you into the land of Israel.   And ye shall know that I am the Lord, when I have opened your 
graves, that I may bring up my people from their graves.   And I will put my Spirit within you, and 
ye shall live, and I will place you upon your own land: and ye shall know that I
am the Lord; I have spoken, and will do it, saith the Lord.  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,   Son of man, take for 
thyself a rod, and write upon it, Juda, and the children of Israel his 
adherents; and thou shalt take for thyself another rod, and thou shalt inscribe 
it for Joseph, the rod of Ephraim, and all the children of Israel that belong to 
him.   And thou shalt joint them 
together for thyself, so as that they should bind themselves into one stick; and 
they shall be in thine hand.   And it shall come to pass, when the 
children of thy people shall say to thee, Wilt thou not tell us what thou 
meanest by these things?   Then 
shalt thou say to them, Thus saith the Lord; behold, I will take the tribe of 
Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel that belong to 
him, and I will add them to the tribe of Juda, and they shall become one rod in 
the hand of Juda.   And the rods on 
which thou didst write shall be in thine hand in their presence.   And thou shalt say to them, Thus saith 
the Lord God; Behold, I will take the whole house of Israel out of the 
midst of the nations, among whom they have gone, and I will gather them from all 
that are round about them, and I will bring them into the land of Israel.   And I will make them a nation in my 
land, even on the mountains of Israel; and they shall have one prince: and they 
shall be no more two nations, neither shall they be divided any more at all into 
two kingdoms:   that they may no 
more defile themselves with their idols; and I will deliver them from all their 
transgressions whereby they have sinned, and will cleanse them; and they shall 
be to me a people, and I the Lord will be to them a God.   And my servant David shall be 
a prince in the midst of them: there shall be one shepherd of them all; 
for they shall walk in mine ordinances, and keep my judgments, and do them.
  And they shall dwell in their 
land, which I have given to my servant Jacob, where their fathers dwelt; and 
they shall dwell upon it: and David my servant shall be their prince 
forever.   And I will make with them a covenant 
of peace; it shall be an everlasting covenant with them; and I will establish my 
sanctuary in the midst of them for ever.   And my tabernacle shall be among them; and I will be to them a 
God, and they shall be my people.   And the nations shall know that I am the Lord that sanctifies 
them, when my sanctuary is in the midst of them for ever.  And the word of the Lord came to 
me, saying,   Son of man, set thy 
face against Gog, and the land of Magog, Rhos, prince of Mesoch and Thobel, and 
prophesy against him,   and say to 
him, Thus saith the Lord God;   Behold, I am against thee, Rhos prince of Mesoch and Thobel:
  and I will gather thee, and all 
thine host, horses and horsemen, all wearing breast-plates, with a great 
multitude, shields and helmets and swords:   Persians, and Ethiopians, and Libyans; all with helmets and 
shields.   Gomer, and all belonging 
to him; the house of Thorgama, from the end of the north, and all belonging to 
him; and many nations with thee.   Be thou prepared, prepare thyself, 
thou, and all thy multitude that is assembled with thee, and thou shalt be to me 
for a guard.   He shall be prepared 
after many days, and he shall come at the end of years, and shall come to a land 
that is brought back from the sword, when the people are gathered from 
many nations against the land of Israel, which was entirely desolate: and he is 
come forth out of the nations, and they shall all dwell securely.   And thou shalt go up as rain, and shalt 
arrive as a cloud to cover the land, and there shall be thou, and all that are 
about thee, and many nations with thee.   Thus saith the Lord God; It shall 
also come to pass in that day, that thoughts shall come up into thine heart, and 
thou shalt devise evil devices.   
And thou shalt say, I will go up to the rejected land; I will come upon them 
that are at ease in tranquility, and dwelling in peace, all inhabiting a land in 
which there is no wall, nor bars, nor have they doors;   to seize plunder, and to take their spoil; to turn my 
hands against the desolate land that is now inhabited, and against a 
nation that is gathered from many nations, that have acquired property, dwelling 
in the midst of the land.   Sabba, 
and Daedan, and Carthaginian merchants, and all their villages shall say to 
thee, Thou art come for plunder to take a prey, and to get spoils: thou hast 
gathered thy multitude to take silver and gold, to carry off property, to take 
spoils.  Therefore prophesy, son of man, and 
say to Gog, Thus saith the Lord; Wilt thou not arise in that day, when my people 
Israel are dwelling securely,   and 
come out of thy place from the farthest north, and many nations with thee? all 
of them mounted on horses, a great gathering, and a large force?   And thou shalt come up upon my people 
Israel as a cloud to cover the land; it shall come to pass in the last days, 
that I will bring thee up upon my land, that all the nations may know me, when I 
am sanctified in thee before them.   Thus saith the Lord God, to Gog; Thou 
art he concerning whom I spoke in former times, by the hand of my 
servants the prophets of Israel, in those days and years, that I would bring 
thee up against them.   And it 
shall come to pass in that day, in the day when Gog shall come against the land 
of Israel, saith the Lord God,   
that my wrath and my jealousy shall arise, I have spoken in the fire of 
mine anger, verily in that day there shall be a great shaking in the land of 
Israel;   and the fish of the sea 
shall quake at the presence of the Lord, and the birds of the sky and the wild 
beasts of the field, and all the reptiles that creep upon the earth, and all the 
men that are on the face of the earth; and the mountains shall be rent, and the 
valleys shall fall, and every wall on the land shall fall.   And I will summon against it even every 
fear, saith the Lord: the sword of every man shall be against his 
brother.   And I will judge him 
with pestilence, and blood, and sweeping rain, and hailstones; and I will rain 
upon him fire and brimstone, and upon all that are with him, and upon many 
nations with him.   And I will be magnified, and 
sanctified, and glorified; and I will be known in the presence of many nations, 
and they shall know that I am the Lord.  And thou, son of man, prophesy 
against Gog, and say, Thus saith the Lord; Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, 
Rhos prince of Mesoch and Thobel:   
and I will assemble thee, and guide thee, and raise thee up on the extremity of 
the north, and I will bring thee up upon the mountains of Israel.   And I will destroy the bow out of thy 
left hand, and thine arrows out of thy right hand, and I will cast thee down on 
the mountains of Israel;   and thou 
and all that belong to thee shall fall, and the nations that are with thee shall 
be given to multitudes of birds, even to every fowl, and I have given 
thee to all the wild beasts of the field to be devoured.   Thou shalt fall on the face of the field: for I have 
spoken it, saith the Lord.   And I will send a fire upon Gog, and 
the islands shall be securely inhabited: and they shall know that I am the Lord.
  And my holy name shall be known in 
the midst of my people Israel; and my holy name shall no more be profaned: and 
the nations shall know that I am the Lord, the Holy One in Israel.   Behold it is come, and thou shalt know 
that it shall be, saith the Lord God; this is the day concerning which I have 
spoken.   And they that inhabit the cities of 
Israel shall come forth, and make a fire with the arms, the shields and the 
spears, and bows and arrows, and hand-staves, and lances, and they shall keep 
fire burning with them for seven years:   and they shall not take any wood out of the field, neither shall 
they cut any out of the forests, but they shall burn the weapons with fire: and 
they shall plunder those that plundered them, and spoil those that spoiled them, 
saith the Lord.   And it shall come to pass that 
in that day I will give to Gog a place of renown, a tomb in Israel, the 
burial-place of them that approach the sea: and they shall build round about the 
outlet of the valley, and there they shall bury Gog and all his multitude: and
the place shall then be called the burial-place of Gog.   And the house of Israel shall bury them, 
that the land may be cleansed in the space of seven months.   Yea, all the people of the land shall 
bury them; and it shall be to them a place of renown in the day wherein 
it was glorified, saith the Lord.   And they shall appoint men continually to go over the land, to 
bury them that have been left on the face of the earth, to cleanse it after the 
space of seven months, and they shall seek them out.   And every one that goes through the 
land, and sees a man’s bone, shall set up a mark by it, until the buriers shall 
have buried it in the valley, the burial place of Gog.   For the name of the city shall be Burial-place: so 
shall the land be cleansed.   And thou, son of man, say, Thus saith 
the Lord; Say to every winged bird, and to all the wild beasts of the field, 
Gather yourselves, and come; gather yourselves from all places round 
about to my sacrifice, which I have made for you, even a great sacrifice 
on the mountains of Israel, and ye shall eat flesh, and drink blood.   Ye shall eat the flesh of mighty men, 
and ye shall drink the blood of princes of the earth, rams, and calves and 
goats, and they are all fatted calves.   And ye shall eat fat till ye are full, and shall drink wine till 
ye are drunken, of my sacrifice which I have prepared for you.   And ye shall be filled at my table, 
eating horse, and rider, and mighty man, and every warrior, saith the Lord.
  And I will set my glory among you, 
and all the nations shall see my judgment which I have wrought, and my hand 
which I have brought upon them.   
And the house of Israel shall know that I am the Lord their God, from this day 
and onwards.  And all the nations shall know that 
the house of Israel were led captive because of their sins, because they 
rebelled against me, and I turned away my face from them, and delivered them 
into the hands of their enemies, and they all fell by the sword.   According to their uncleannesses and 
according to their transgressions did I deal with them, and I turned away my 
face from them.   Therefore thus saith the Lord God, 
Now will I turn back captivity in Jacob, and will have mercy on the house of 
Israel, and will be jealous for the sake of my holy name.   And they shall bear their reproach, and the iniquity 
which they committed when they dwelt upon their land in peace. Yet there shall 
be none to terrify them  
when I have brought them back from the nations, and gathered them out of the 
countries of the nations: and I will be sanctified among them in the presence of 
the nations.   And they shall know 
that I am the Lord their God, when I have been manifested to them among the 
nations.   And I will no more turn 
away my face from them, because I have poured out my wrath upon the house of 
Israel, saith the Lord God.  And it came to pass in the 
twenty-fifth year of our captivity, in the first month, on the tenth day 
of the month, in the fourteenth year after the taking of the city, in that day 
the hand of the Lord was upon me, and brought me   in a vision of God into the land of Israel, and set me on a very 
high mountain, and upon it there was as it were the frame of a city 
before me.   And he brought me in thither, and, 
behold, there was a man, and the appearance of him was as the appearance 
of shining brass, and in his hand was a builder’s line, and a measuring reed; 
and he stood at the gate.   And the 
man said to me,   Look with thine eyes at him whom thou hast seen, son of man, 
and hear with thine ears, and lay up in thine heart all things that I show thee; 
for thou hast come in hither that I might show thee, and thou shalt show 
all things that thou seest to the house of Israel.  And behold a wall round about the 
house without, and in the man’s hand a reed, the measure of it was six 
cubits by the cubit, and a span: and he measured across the front wall; the 
breadth was equal to the reed, and the length of it equal to the reed.   And he entered by seven steps into the 
gate that looks eastward, and he measured across the porch of the gate equal to 
the reed.   And the chamber was 
equal in length to the reed, and equal in breadth to the reed; and the porch 
between the chambers six cubits; and the second chamber equal in breadth to the 
reed, and equal in length to the reed, and the porch five cubits.   And the third chamber equal in length to 
the reed, and equal in breadth to the reed.   And the porch of the gateway (near the porch of the gate) eight 
cubits; and the posts there of two cubits; and the porch of the gate was inward:
  and the chambers of the gate of 
the chamber in front were three on one side and three on the other, and
there was one measure to the three: there was one measure to the 
porches on this side and on that.   And he measured the breadth of the door of the gateway, ten 
cubits; and the breadth of the gateway thirteen cubits.   And the space before the chambers was narrowed to a cubit 
in front of the chambers on this side and on that side: and the chamber was six 
cubits this way, and six cubits that way.   And he measured the gate from the 
wall of one chamber to the wall of the other chamber: the breadth was 
twenty-five cubits, the one gate over against the other gate.   And the open space of the porch of the 
gate without, was twenty cubits to the chambers round about the gate.   And the open space of the gate without 
to the open space of the porch of the gate within was fifty cubits.   And there were secret windows 
to the chambers, and to the porches within the gate of the court round about, 
and in the same manner windows to the porches round about within: and on the 
porch there were palm-trees on this side and on that side.   And he brought me into the inner 
court, and, behold, there were chambers, and peristyles round about the 
court; thirty chambers within the ranges of columns.   And the porticos were behind the gates; according to the 
length of the gates, was the lower peristyle.   And he measured the breadth of the court, from the open space of 
the outer gate inwards to the open space of the gate looking outwards: a hundred 
cubits was the distance to the place of the gate looking eastward: and he 
brought me to the north;   and 
behold a gate looking northwards belonging to the outer court, and he 
measured it, both the length of it and the breadth;   and the chambers, three on this side and three on that; 
and the posts, and the porches, and the palm-trees thereof: and they were 
according to the measures of the gate that looks eastward: the length thereof 
was fifty cubits, and the breadth thereof was twenty-five cubits.   And its windows, and its porches, and 
its palm-trees, were according to the dimensions of the gate looking 
eastward; and they went up to it by seven steps; and the porches were within.
  And there was a gate to 
the inner court looking toward the north gate, after the manner of the gate 
looking toward the east; and he measured the court from gate to gate, a hundred 
cubits.   And he brought me to the south side, 
and behold a gate looking southwards: and he measured it, and its chambers, and 
its posts, and its porches, according to these dimensions.   And its windows and its porches round 
about were according to the windows of the porch: the length thereof was fifty 
cubits, and the breadth thereof was five and twenty cubits.   And it had seven steps, and porches 
within: and it had palm-trees on the posts, one on one side, and one on 
the other side.   And there was 
a gate opposite the gate of the inner court southward: and he measured the court 
from gate to gate, a hundred cubits in breadth southward.   And he brought me into the inner 
court of the south gate: and he measured the gate according to these measures;
  and the chambers, and the posts,
   and the porches, according to 
these measures: and there were windows to it and to the porches round 
about: its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits,
  from the porch to the outer 
court: and there were palm-trees to the post thereof, and eight 
steps.   And he brought me in at the gate that 
looks eastward: and he measured it according to these measures:   and the chambers, and the posts, and the 
porches according to these measures: and there were windows to it, and 
porches round about: the length of it was fifty cubits, and the breadth of it 
twenty-five cubits.   And there 
were porches opening into the inner court, and palm-trees on the 
posts on this side and on that side: and it had eight steps.   And he brought me in at the northern 
gate, and measured it according to these measures;   and the chambers, and the posts, and the porches: and 
it had windows round about, and it had its porches: the length of 
it was fifty cubits, and the breadth twenty-five cubits.   And its porches were toward the inner court; and 
there were palm-trees to the posts on this side and on that side: and it 
had eight steps.   Its chambers and its door-ways, and 
its porches at the second gate served as a drain,   that they might slay in it the sin-offerings, and the 
trespass-offerings.   And behind 
the drain for the whole-burnt-offerings at the north gate, two tables 
eastward behind the second gate; and behind the porch of the gate two 
tables eastward.   Four on one side 
and four on the other side behind the gate; upon them they kill the victims, in 
front of the eight tables of sacrifices.   And there were four tables of hewn stone for 
whole-burnt-offerings, the breadth of them was a cubit and a half, and 
the length of them two cubits and a half, and their height 
was a cubit: on them they shall place the instruments with which they slay there 
the whole-burnt-offerings and the victims.   And they shall have within a border of hewn stone round about of 
a span broad, and over the tables above screens for covering them from 
the wet and from the heat.   And he brought me into the inner 
court, and behold there were two chambers in the inner court, one behind 
the gate looking to the north, turning southward, and one behind the southern 
gate, but which looks to the north.   And he said to me, This chamber that looks to the south, is for 
the priests that keep the charge of the house.   And the chamber that looks to the north is for the priests that 
keep the charge of the altar: they are the sons of Sadduc, those of the tribe of 
Levi who draw near to the Lord to serve him.   And he measured the court, the length
whereof was a hundred cubits, and the breadth a hundred cubits, on its 
four sides; and the altar in front of the house.   And he brought me into the porch of the house; and he measured 
the post of the porch, the breadth was five cubits on one side and five cubits 
on the other side; and the breadth of the door was fourteen cubits, and 
the side-pieces of the door of the porch were three cubits on one side, 
and three cubits on the other side.   And the length of the porch was twenty cubits, and the breadth 
twelve cubits; and they went up to it by ten steps; and there were 
pillars to the porch, one on this side and one on that side.  And he brought me into the temple, 
the porch of which he measured, six cubits the breadth on one side, and six 
cubits the breadth of the porch on the other side.   And the breadth of the gateway was ten cubits, and the 
side-pieces of the gateway were five cubits on this side, and five cubits on 
that side: and he measured the length of it, forty cubits, and the breadth, 
twenty cubits.   And he went into the inner court, and 
measured the post of the door, two cubits; and the door, six cubits; and the 
side-pieces of the door, seven cubits on one side, and seven cubits on the other 
side.   And he measured the length 
of the doors, forty cubits; and the breadth, twenty cubits, in front of the 
temple: and he said, This is the holy of holies.   And he measured the wall of the house, 
six cubits: and the breadth of each side, four cubits round about.   And the sides were twice ninety, side 
against side; and there was a space in the wall of the house at the sides 
round about, that they should be for them that take hold of them to see, that 
they should not at all touch the walls of the house.   And the breadth of the upper side was made 
according to the projection out of the wall, against the upper one round about 
the house, that it might be enlarged above, and that men might go up to 
the upper chambers from those below, and from the ground-sills to the third 
story.   And as for the height of the house 
round about, each space between the sides was equal to a reed of six 
cubits;   and the breadth of the 
wall of each side without was five cubits; and the spaces that were left between 
the sides of the house,   and 
between the chambers, were a width of twenty cubits, the circumference of the 
house.   And the doors of the chambers were 
toward the space left by the one door that looked northward, and there was 
one door southward; and the breadth of the remaining open space was five 
cubits in extent round about.  And the partition wall in 
front of the remaining space, toward the west, was seventy cubits in breadth; 
the breadth of the partition wall was five cubits round about, and the length of 
it ninety cubits.   And he measured 
in front of the house a length of a hundred cubits, and the remaining spaces and 
the partitions; and the walls thereof were in length a hundred cubits.   And the breadth in front of the house, 
and the remaining spaces before it were a hundred cubits.   And he measured the length of the 
partition in front of the space left by the back parts of that house; and the 
spaces left on this side and on that side were in length a hundred cubits: 
and the temple and the corners and the outer porch were ceiled.   And the windows were latticed, giving 
light round about to the three stories, so as to look through: and the 
house and the parts adjoining were planked round about, and so was the 
floor, and from the floor up to the windows, and the window shutters 
folded back in three parts for one to look through.   And almost all the way to the inner, and close to the 
outer side, and upon all the wall round about within and without,   were carved cherubs and palm-trees 
between the cherubs, and each cherub had two faces.   The face of a man was toward one 
palm-tree on this side and on that side, and the face of a lion toward another 
palm-tree on this side and on that side: the house was carved all round.   From the floor to the ceiling were 
cherubs and palm-trees carved.   And the holy place and the temple 
opened on four sides; in front of the holy places the appearance was as the look 
of   a wooden altar, the height of 
it three cubits, and the length two cubits, and the breadth two cubits; and it 
had horns, and the base of it and the sides of it were of wood: and he said to 
me, This is the table, which is before the face of the Lord.   And the temple had two doors, 
and the sanctuary had two doors, with two turning leaves apiece;
  two leaves to the one, and two 
leaves to the other door.   And 
there was carved work upon them, and cherubs on the doors of the temple, and 
palm-trees according to the carving of the sanctuary; and there were 
stout planks in front of the porch without.   And there were secret windows; 
and he measured from side to side, to the roofing of the porch; and the sides of 
the house were closely planked.  And he brought me into the inner 
court eastward, opposite the northern gate: and he brought me in, and behold 
five chambers near the vacant space, and near the northern partition,   a hundred cubits in length toward the 
north, and in breadth fifty,   
ornamented accordingly as the gates of the inner court, and arranged accordingly 
as the peristyles of the outer court, with triple porticos fronting one 
another.   And in front of the 
chambers was a walk ten cubits in breadth, the length reaching to a 
hundred cubits; and their doors were northward.   And the upper walks were in like manner: for the peristyle 
projected from it, even from the range of columns below, and there was 
a space between; so were there a peristyle and a space between, and so 
were there two porticos.   For 
they were triple, and they had not pillars like the pillars of the outer ones: 
therefore they projected from the lower ones and the middle ones from the 
ground.   And there was light without, 
corresponding to the chambers of the outer court looking toward the front of the 
northern chambers; the length of them was fifty cubits.   For the length of the chambers looking 
toward the inner court was fifty cubits, and these are the ones that front the 
others; the whole was a hundred cubits.   And there were doors of these 
chambers for an outlet toward the east, so that one should go through them out 
of the outer court,   by the 
opening of the walk at the corner; and the south parts were toward the south, 
toward the remaining space, and toward the partition, and so were the 
chambers.   And the walk was in 
front of them, according to the measures of the chambers toward the north, both 
according to the length of them, and according to the breadth of them, and 
according to all their openings, an according to all their turnings, and 
according to their lights, and according to their doors.   So were the measures of the chambers toward the 
south, and according to the doors at the entrance of the walk, as it were the 
distance of a reed for light, and eastward as one went in by them.   And he said to me, The chambers 
toward the north, and the chambers toward the south, in front of the void 
spaces, these are the chambers of the sanctuary, wherein the priests the sons of 
Sadduc, who draw night to the Lord, shall eat the most holy things: and there 
shall they lay the most holy things, and the meat-offering, and the 
sin-offerings, and the trespass-offerings; because the place is holy.   None shall go in thither except the 
priests, and they shall not go forth of the holy place into the outer 
court, that they that draw nigh to me may be continually holy, and may 
not touch their garments in which they minister, with defilement, for 
they are holy; and they shall put on other garments whenever they come in 
contact with the people.  So the measurement of the house 
within was accomplished: and he brought me forth by the way of the gate that 
looks eastward, and measured the plan of the house round about in order.   And he stood behind the gate looking 
eastward, and measured five hundred cubits with the measuring reed.
  And he turned to the north and 
measured in front of the north side five hundred cubits with the 
measuring reed.   And he turned to 
the west, and measured in front of the west side, five hundred cubits 
with the measuring reed.   And he 
turned to the south, and measured in front of the south side, five hundred 
cubits by the measuring reed.   The four sides he measured by the same reed, and he marked 
out the house and the circumference of the parts round about, a space of 
five hundred cubits eastward, and a breadth of five hundred cubits, to 
make a division between the sanctuary and the outer wall, that belonged to 
the design of the house.  Moreover he brought me to the gate 
looking eastward, and led me forth.   And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel came by the eastern 
way; and there was a voice of an army, as the sound of many redoubling 
their shouts, and the earth shone like light from the glory round about.
  And the vision which I saw was 
like the vision which I saw when I went in to anoint the city: and the vision of 
the chariot which I saw was like the vision which I saw at the river Chobar; and 
I fell upon my face.   And the glory of the Lord came into 
the house, by the way of the gate looking eastward.   And the Spirit took me up, and brought me into the inner 
court; and, behold, the house of the Lord was full of glory.   And I stood, and behold there was 
a voice out of the house of one speaking to me, and a man stood near me,   and he said to me,   Son of man, thou hast seen the place of my throne, and the 
place of the soles of my feet, in which my name shall dwell in the midst of the 
house of Israel for ever; and the house of Israel shall no more profane my holy 
name, they and their princes, by their fornication, or by the murders of 
their princes in the midst of them;   when they set my door-way by their door-way, and my thresholds 
near to their thresholds: and they made my wall as it were joining myself and 
them, and they profaned my holy name with their iniquities which they wrought: 
and I destroyed them in my wrath and with slaughter.   And now let them put away from me their fornication, and 
the murders of their princes, and I will dwell in the midst of them forever.
  And thou, son of man, shew the house 
to the house of Israel, that they may cease from their sins; and shew its 
aspect and the arrangement of it.   And they shall bear their punishment for all the things that they 
have done: and thou shalt describe the house, and its entrances, and the plan 
thereof, and all its ordinances, and thou shalt make known to them all the 
regulations of it, and describe them before them: and they shall keep all 
my commandments, and all my ordinances, and do them.   And thou shalt shew the plan of the 
house on the top of the mountain: all its limits round about shall be 
most holy.  And these are the measures of the 
altar by the cubit of a cubit and a span, the cavity shall be a cubit 
deep, and a cubit shall be the breadth, and the border on the rim of it round 
about shall be a span: and this shall be the height of the altar   from the bottom at the commencement of 
the hollow part to this great mercy-seat, from beneath was two cubits, and the 
breadth was a cubit; and from the little mercy-seat to the great mercy-seat, 
four cubits, and the breadth was a cubit.   And the altar shall be four cubits; and from the altar and 
above the horns a cubit.   And the 
altar shall be of the length of twelve cubits, by twelve cubits in 
breadth, square upon its four sides.   And the mercy-seat shall be 
fourteen cubits in length, by fourteen cubits in breadth on its four sides; and
there shall be a border to it carried round about it of half a cubit; and 
the rim of it shall be a cubit round about; and the steps thereof looking 
eastward.   And he said to me, Son of man, thus 
saith the Lord God of Israel; These are the ordinances of the altar in the day 
of its being made, to offer upon it whole-burnt-offerings, and to pour blood 
upon it.   And thou shalt appoint 
to the priests the Levites of the seed of Sadduc, that draw nigh to me, saith 
the Lord God, to minister to me, a calf of the herd for a sin-offering.   And they shall take of its blood, and 
shall put it on the four horns of the altar, and upon the four corners of 
the propitiatory, and upon the base round about, and they shall make atonement 
for it.   And they shall take the 
calf of the sin-offering, and it shall be consumed by fire in the separate place 
of the house, outside the sanctuary.   And on the second day they shall take two kids of the goats 
without blemish for a sin-offering; and they shall make atonement for the altar, 
as they made atonement with the calf.   And after they have finished the atonement, they shall bring an 
unblemished calf of the herd, and an unblemished ram of the flock.   And ye shall offer them before 
the Lord, and the priests shall sprinkle salt upon them, and shall offer them up
as whole-burnt-offerings to the Lord.   Seven days shalt thou offer a kid 
daily for a sin-offering, and a calf of the herd, and a ram out of the flock: 
they shall sacrifice them unblemished for seven days:   and they shall make atonement for the altar, and shall 
purge it; and they shall consecrate themselves.   And it shall come to pass from the eighth day and onward, that 
the priests shall offer your whole-burnt-offerings on the altar, and your 
peace-offerings; and I will accept you, saith the Lord.  Then he brought me back by the way 
of the outer gate of the sanctuary that looks eastward; and it was shut.   And the Lord said to me, This gate shall 
be shut, it shall not be opened, and no one shall pass through it; for the Lord 
God of Israel shall enter by it, and it shall be shut.   For the prince, he shall sit in it, to eat bread before 
the Lord; he shall go in by the way of the porch of the gate, and shall go forth 
by the way of the same.  And he brought me in by the way of the 
gate that looks northward, in front of the house: and I looked, and, behold, the 
house was full of the glory of the Lord: and I fell upon my face.   And the Lord said to me, Son of man, 
attend with thine heart, and see with thine eyes, and hear with thine 
ears all that I say to thee, according to all the ordinances of the house of the 
Lord, and all the regulations thereof; and thou shalt attend well to the 
entrance of the house, according to all its outlets, in all the holy things.
  And thou shalt say to the 
provoking house, even to the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord God; 
Let it suffice you to have committed all your iniquities, O house of 
Israel!   that ye have brought in 
aliens, uncircumcised in heart, and uncircumcised in flesh, to be in my 
sanctuary, and to profane it, when ye offered bread, flesh, and blood; and ye 
transgressed my covenant by all your iniquities;   and ye appointed others to keep the charges in my 
sanctuary.   Therefore thus saith the Lord God; No 
alien, uncircumcised in heart or uncircumcised in flesh, shall enter into my 
sanctuary, of all the children of strangers that are in the midst of the house 
of Israel.  But as for the Levites who departed 
far from me when Israel went astray from me after their imaginations, they shall 
even bear their iniquity.   yet 
they shall minister in my sanctuary, being porters at the gates of the 
house, and serving the house: they shall slay the victims and the 
whole-burnt-offerings for the people, and they shall stand before the people to 
minister to them.   Because they 
ministered to them before their idols, and it became to the house of Israel a 
punishment of iniquity; therefore have I lifted up my hand against them, saith 
the Lord God.   And they shall not 
draw nigh to me to minister to me in the priests’ office, nor to approach the 
holy things of the children of Israel, nor to approach my holy of holies: 
but they shall bear their reproach for the error wherein they erred.   They shall bring them to keep the 
charges of the house, for all the service of it, and for all that they shall do.
  The priests the Levites, the sons of 
Sadduc, who kept the charges of my sanctuary when the house of Israel went 
astray from me, these shall draw night to me to minister to me, and shall stand 
before my face, to offer sacrifice to me, the fat and the blood, saith the Lord 
God.   These shall enter into my 
sanctuary, and these shall approach my table, to minister to me, and they shall 
keep my charges.  And it shall come to pass when they 
enter the gates of the inner court, that they shall put on linen robes; 
and they shall not put on woollen garments when they minister at the gate of the 
inner court.   And they shall have 
linen mitres upon their heads, and shall have linen drawers upon their loins; 
and they shall not tightly gird themselves.   And when they go out into the outer court to the people, they 
shall put off their robes, in which they minister; and they shall lay them up in 
the chambers of the sanctuary, and shall put on other robes, and they shall not 
sanctify the people with their robes.   And they shall not shave their heads, nor shall they pluck off 
their hair; they shall carefully cover their heads.   And no priest shall drink any wine, when they go into the 
inner court.   Neither shall they 
take to themselves to wife a widow, or one that is put away, but a virgin of the 
seed of Israel: but if there should happen to be a priest’s widow, they shall 
take her.   And they shall teach my people to 
distinguish between holy and profane, and they shall make known to them 
the difference between unclean and clean.   And these shall attend at a judgment of blood to decide it: they 
shall rightly observe my ordinances, and judge my judgments, and keep my 
statutes and my commandments in all my feasts; and they shall hallow my 
sabbaths.   And they shall not go in to the dead 
body of a man to defile themselves: only a priest may defile himself for 
a father, or for a mother, or for a son, or for a daughter, or for a brother, or 
for his sister, who has not been married.   And after he has been cleansed, let him number to himself seven 
days.   And on whatsoever day they 
shall enter into the inner court to minister in the holy place, they shall bring 
a propitiation, saith the Lord God.   And it shall be to them for an 
inheritance: I am their inheritance: and no possession shall be given them among 
the children of Israel; for I am their possession.   And these shall eat the meat-offerings, and the 
sin-offerings, and the trespass-offerings; and every special offering in Israel 
shall be theirs.   And the 
first-fruits of all things, and the first-born of all animals and all 
offerings, of all your first-fruits there shall be a share for the 
priests; and ye shall give your earliest produce to the priest, to bring your 
blessings upon your houses.   And 
the priests shall eat no bird or beast that dies of itself, or is taken of wild 
beasts.  And when ye measure the land for 
inheritance, ye shall set apart first-fruits to the Lord, a holy space of the 
land, in length twenty and five thousand reeds, and in breadth twenty 
thousand; it shall be holy in all the borders thereof round about.   And there shall be a sanctuary out of 
this, five hundred reeds in length by five hundred in breadth, a square 
round about; and there shall be a vacant space beyond this of 
fifty cubits round about.   And out 
of this measurement shalt thou measure the length five and twenty thousand, and 
the breadth twenty thousand: and in it shall be the holy of holies.   Of the land shall be a portion for 
the priests that minister in the holy place, and it shall be for them that draw 
nigh to minister to the Lord: and it shall be to them a place for houses set 
apart for their sacred office;   the 
length shall be twenty-five thousand, and the breadth twenty thousand: 
and the Levites that attend the house, they shall have cities to dwell in for a 
possession.   And ye shall appoint for the 
possession of the city five thousand in breadth, and in length twenty-five 
thousand: after the manner of the first-fruits of the holy portion, they shall 
be for all the house of Israel.   And the prince shall have a portion 
out of this, and out of this there shall be a portion for the 
first-fruits of the sanctuary, and for the possession of the city, in 
front of the first-fruits of the sanctuary, and in front of the possession of 
the city westward, and from the western parts eastward: and the length shall 
be equal to one of the parts of the western borders, and the length shall 
be to the eastern borders of the land.   And he shall have it for a possession in Israel: and the princes 
of Israel shall no more oppress my people; but the house of Israel shall inherit 
the land according to their tribes.  Thus saith the Lord God; Let it 
suffice you, ye princes of Israel: remove injustice and misery, execute judgment 
and justice; take away oppression from my people, saith the Lord God.   Ye shall have a just balance, and a just 
measure, and a just choenix for measure.   And in like manner there shall be one choenix as a measure of 
capacity; the tenth of the gomor shall be the choenix, and the tenth of 
the gomor shall be in fair proportion to the gomor.   And the weights shall be twenty oboli, your pound 
shall be five shekels, fifteen shekels and fifty shekels.  And these are the first-fruits which 
ye shall offer; a sixth part of a gomor of wheat, and the sixth part of it 
shall consist of an ephah of a core of barley.   And ye shall give as the appointed measure of oil 
one bath of oil out of ten baths; for ten baths are a gomor.   And one sheep from the flock out of ten, 
as an oblation from all the tribes of Israel, for sacrifices, and for 
whole-burnt-offerings, and for peace-offerings, to make atonement for you, saith 
the Lord God.   And all the people 
shall give these first-fruits to the prince of Israel.   And through the prince shall be 
offered the whole-burnt-offerings and the meat-offerings, and the 
drink-offerings in the feasts, and at the new moons, and on the sabbaths; and in 
all the feasts of the house of Israel: he shall offer the sin-offerings, and the 
meat-offering, and the whole-burnt-offerings, and the peace-offerings, to make 
atonement for the house of Israel.   Thus saith the Lord God; In the first 
month, on the first day of the month, ye shall take a calf without 
blemish out of the herd, to make atonement for the holy place.   And the priest shall take of the blood 
of the atonement, and put it on the thresholds of the house, and upon the four 
corners of the temple, and upon the altar, and upon the thresholds of the gate 
of the inner court.   And thus 
shalt thou do in the seventh month; on the first day of the month thou 
shalt take a rate from each one; and ye shall make atonement for the house.
  And in the first month, on the 
fourteenth day of the month, ye shall have the feast of the passover; 
seven days shall ye eat unleavened bread.   And the prince shall offer in that day a calf for a sin-offering 
for himself, and the house, and for all the people of the land.   And for the seven days of the feast he 
shall offer as whole-burnt-offerings to the Lord seven calves and seven rams 
without blemish daily for the seven days; and a kid of the goats daily for a 
sin-offering, and a meat-offering.   And thou shalt prepare a cake for the calf, and cakes for the 
ram, and a hin of oil for the cake.   And in the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the 
month, thou shalt sacrifice in the feast in the same way seven days, as they 
sacrificed the sin-offerings, and the whole-burnt-offerings, and the 
freewill-offering, and the oil.  Thus saith the Lord God; The gate 
that is in the inner court, that looks eastward, shall be shut the six working 
days; but let it be opened on the sabbath-day, and it shall be opened on 
the day of the new moon.   And the 
prince shall enter by the way of the porch of the inner gate, and shall stand at 
the entrance of the gate, and the priests shall prepare his 
whole-burnt-offerings and his peace-offerings, and he shall worship at the 
entrance of the gate: then shall he come forth; but the gate shall not be shut 
till evening.   And the people of 
the land shall worship at the entrance of that gate, both on the sabbaths and at 
the new moons, before the Lord.   And the prince shall offer 
whole-burnt-offerings to the Lord on the sabbath-day, six lambs without blemish, 
and a ram without blemish;   and a 
freewill-offering, a meat-offering for the ram, and a meat-offering for the 
lambs, the gift of his hand, and a hin of oil for the meat-offering.   And on the day of the new moon a calf 
without blemish, and six lambs, and there shall be a ram without blemish;   and a meat-offering for the ram, and 
there shall be a meat-offering for the calf as a freewill-offering, and for the 
lambs, according as his hand can furnish, and there shall be a hin of oil 
for the cake.   And when the prince goes in, he shall 
go in by the way of the porch of the gate, and he shall go forth by the way of 
the gate.   And whenever the people 
of the land shall go in before the Lord at the feasts, he that goes in by the 
way of the north gate to worship shall go forth by the way of the south gate; 
and he that goes in by the way of the south gate shall go forth by the way of 
the north gate: he shall not return by the gate by which he entered, but he 
shall go forth opposite it.   And 
the prince shall enter with them in the midst of them when they go in; and when 
they go forth, he shall go forth.   And in the feasts and in the general 
assemblies the freewill oblation shall be a meat-offering for the calf, and a 
meat-offering for the ram, and for the lambs, as his hand can furnish, and a hin 
of oil for the meat-offering.   And 
if the prince should prepare as a thanksgiving a 
whole-burnt-peace-offering to the Lord, and should open for himself the gate 
looking eastward, and offer his whole-burnt-offering, and his peace-offerings, 
as he does on the sabbath-day; then shall he go out, and shall shut the doors 
after he has gone out.   And he shall prepare daily as a 
whole-burnt-offering to the Lord a lamb of a year old without blemish: in the 
morning shall he prepare it.   And 
he shall prepare a freewill-offering for it in the morning, the sixth part of a 
measure of flour, and a third part of a hin of oil to mix therewith 
the fine flour, as a freewill-offering to the Lord, a perpetual 
ordinance.   Ye shall prepare the 
lamb, and the freewill-offering, and the oil in the morning, for a 
perpetual whole-burnt-sacrifice.  Thus saith the Lord God; If the 
prince shall give a gift to one of his sons out of his inheritance, this shall 
be to his sons a possession as an inheritance.   But if he give a gift to one of his servants, then it 
shall belong to him until the year of release; and then he shall restore
it to the prince: but of the inheritance of his sons the possession 
shall continue to them.   And the 
prince shall by no means take of the inheritance of the people, to oppress them: 
he shall give an inheritance to his sons out of his own possession: that 
my people be not scattered, every one from his possession.  And he brought me into the entrance 
of the place behind the gate, into the chamber of the sanctuary belonging 
to the priests, that looks toward the north: and, behold, there was a place set 
apart.   And he said to me, This is 
the place where the priests shall boil the trespass-offerings and the 
sin-offerings, and there shall they bake the meat-offering always; so as not to 
carry them out into the outer court, to sanctify the people.   And he brought me into the outer 
court, and led me round upon the four sides of the court; and, behold, there was 
a court on each of the sides of the court,   on every side a court, even a court for all 
the four sides, and each little court belonging to the court was 
in length forty cubits, and in breadth thirty cubits, there was 
one measure to the four.   And 
there were chambers in them round about, round about the four, and 
cooking-places formed under the chambers round about.   And he said to me, These are the cooks’ houses, where they 
that serve the house shall boil the sacrifices of the people.  And he brought me to the entrance 
of the house; and, behold, water issued from under the porch eastward, for the 
front of the house looked eastward; and the water came down from the right side, 
from the south to the altar.   And 
he brought me out by the way of the northern gate, and he led me round by the 
way outside to the gate of the court that looks eastward; and, behold, water 
came down from the right side,   in
the direction in which a man went forth opposite; and there was a 
measuring line in his hand, and he measured a thousand cubits with the 
measure;   and he passed through the 
water; it was water of a fountain: and again he measured a 
thousand, and passed through the water; and the water was up to the thighs: and
again he measured a thousand; and he passed through water up to the 
loins.   and again he 
measured a thousand; and he could not pass through: for the water rose as 
of a torrent which men cannot pass over.   And he said to me, Hast thou seen 
this, son of man? Then he brought me, and led me back to the brink of the 
river   as I returned; and, behold, 
on the brink of the river there were very many trees on this side and on 
that side.   And he said to me, This 
is the water that goes forth to Galilee that lies eastward, and it is gone down 
to Arabia, and has reached as far as to the sea to the outlet of the water: and 
it shall heal the waters.   And it 
shall come to pass, that every animal of living and moving 
creatures, all on which the river shall come, shall live: and there shall be 
there very many fish; for this water shall go thither, and it shall heal them, 
and they shall live: everything on which the river shall come shall live.   And fishers shall stand there from 
Ingadin to Enagallim; it shall be a place to spread out nets upon; it shall be 
distinct; and the fishes thereof shall be as the fishes of the great sea, 
a very great multitude.   But at 
the outlet of the water, and the turn of it, and where it overflows its banks, 
they shall not heal at all; they are given to salt.   And every fruit tree shall grow by the river, even 
on the bank of it on this side and on that side: they shall not decay upon it, 
neither shall their fruit fail: they shall bring forth the first-fruit of their 
early crop, for these their waters come forth of the sanctuary: and their fruit 
shall be for meat, and their foliage for health.  Thus saith the Lord God; Ye shall 
inherit these borders of the land; they are given by lot to the twelve 
tribes of the children of Israel.   And ye shall inherit it, each according to his brother’s portion,
even the land concerning which I lifted up my hand to give it to 
your fathers: and this land shall fall to you by lot.   And these are the borders of the land 
that lies northward, from the great sea that comes down, and divides the 
entrance of Emaseldam;   Maabthera, 
Ebrameliam, between the coasts of Damascus and the coasts of Emathi, the 
habitation of Saunan, which places are above the coasts of Auranitis.
  These are the borders from the 
sea, from the habitations of Ænan, the coasts of Damascus, and the northern 
coasts.   And the eastern 
coasts between Loranitis, and Damascus, and the land of Galaad, and the land of 
Israel, the Jordan divides to the sea that is east of the city of palm-trees. 
These are the eastern coasts.   And the southern and south-western coasts are from Thaeman 
and the city of palm-trees, to the water of Marimoth Cadem, reaching forth to 
the great sea. This part is the south and south-west.   This part of the great sea forms a border, till one 
comes opposite the entrance of Emath, even as far as the entrance 
thereof. These are the parts west of Emath.   So ye shall divide this land to them,
even to the tribes of Israel.   Ye shall cast the lot upon it, for yourselves and the strangers 
that sojourn in the midst of you, who have begotten children in the midst of 
you: and they shall be to you as natives among the children of Israel; they 
shall eat with you in their inheritance in the midst of the tribes of 
Israel.   And they shall be in the 
tribe of proselytes among the proselytes that are with them: there shall ye give 
them an inheritance, saith the Lord God.  And these are the names of the 
tribes from the northern corner, on the side of the descent that draws a line to 
the entrance of Emath the palace of Ælam, the border of Damascus northward on 
the side of Emath the palace; and they shall have the eastern parts as far as 
the sea, for Dan, one portion.   And from the borders of Dan eastward as far as the west 
sea-coast, for Asser, one.   And 
from the borders of Asser, from the eastern parts as far as the west coasts, for 
Nephthalim, one.   And from the 
borders of Nephthalim, from the east as far as the west coasts, for Manasse, 
one.   And from the borders of 
Manasse, from the eastern parts as far as the west coasts, for Ephraim, one.
  And from the borders of Ephraim, 
from the eastern parts to the west coasts, for Ruben, one.   And from the borders of Ruben, from the 
eastern parts as far as the west coasts, for Juda, one.   And from the borders of Juda, from the eastern parts shall 
be the offering of first-fruits, in the breadth twenty-five thousand reeds, 
and in length as one of the portions measured from the east even to the 
western parts: and the sanctuary shall be in the midst of them.   As for the first-fruits which they 
shall offer to the Lord, it shall be in length twenty-five thousand, and 
in breadth twenty-five thousand.   
Out of this shall be the first-fruits of the holy things to the priests, 
northward, five and twenty-thousand, and towards the west, ten thousand, and 
southward, five and twenty thousand: and the mountain of the sanctuary, shall be 
in the midst of it,   for the 
priests, for the consecrated sons of Sadduc, who keep the charges of the house, 
who erred not in the error of the children of Israel, as the Levites erred.
  And the first-fruits shall be 
given to them out of the first-fruits of the land, even a most holy 
portion from the borders of the Levites.   And the Levites shall have the
part, next to the borders of the priests, in length twenty-five thousand, 
and in breadth ten thousand: the whole length shall be five and twenty 
thousand, and the breadth twenty thousand.   No part of it shall be sold, nor measured as for sale, 
neither shall the first-fruits of the land be taken away: for they are holy to 
the Lord.   But concerning the five 
thousand that remain in the breadth in the five and twenty thousand, they shall 
be a suburb to the city for dwelling, and for a space before it: and the city 
shall be in the midst thereof.   
And these shall be its dimensions; from the northern side four thousand 
and five hundred, and from the southern side four thousand and five hundred, and 
from the eastern side four thousand and five hundred, and from the western side
they shall measure four thousand five hundred.   And there shall be a space to the city northward two 
hundred and fifty, and southward two hundred and fifty, and eastward two hundred 
and fifty, and westward two hundred and fifty.   And the remainder of the length that 
is next to the first-fruits of the holy portion shall be ten thousand 
eastward, and ten thousand westward: and they shall be the first-fruits of the 
sanctuary; and the fruits thereof shall be for bread to them that labour for the 
city.   And they that labour for 
the city shall labour for it out of all the tribes of Israel.   The whole offering shall be a 
square of twenty-five thousand by twenty-five thousand: ye shall separate 
again part of it, the first-fruits of the sanctuary, from the possession of 
the city.   And the prince shall have the 
remainder on this side and on that side from the first-fruits of the sanctuary, 
and there shall be a possession of the city, for five and twenty thousand 
cubits in length, to the eastern and western borders, for five and twenty 
thousand to the western borders, next to the portions of the prince; and the 
first-fruits of the holy things and the sanctuary of the house shall be 
in the midst of it.   And there 
shall be a portion taken from the Levites, from the possession of the 
city in the midst of the princes between the borders of Juda and the borders of 
Benjamin, and it shall be the portion of the princes.   And as for the rest of the 
tribes, from the eastern parts as far as the western, Benjamin shall have 
one portion.   And from the 
borders of Benjamin, from the eastern parts to the western, Symeon, one.   And from the borders of Symeon, from the 
eastern parts to the western, Issachar, one.   And from the borders of Issachar, from the eastern parts to the 
western, Zabulon, one.   And from 
the borders of Zabulon, from the east to the western parts, Gad, one.   And from the borders of Gad, from the 
eastern parts to the south-western parts; his coasts shall even be from Thaeman, 
and the water of Barimoth Cades, for an inheritance, unto the great sea.   This is the land, which ye shall divide 
by lot to the tribes of Israel, and these are their portions, saith the Lord 
God.   And these are the goings out of the 
city northward, four thousand and five hundred by measure.   And the gates of the city shall be 
after the names of the tribes of Israel: three gates northward; the gate of 
Ruben, one, and the gate of Juda, one, and the gate of Levi, one.   And eastward four thousand and five 
hundred: and three gates; the gate of Joseph, one, and the gate of Benjamin, 
one, and the gate of Dan, one.   
And southward, four thousand and five hundred by measure: and three gates; the 
gate of Symeon, one, and the gate of Issachar, one, and the gate of Zabulon, 
one.   And westward, four thousand 
and five hundred by measure: and three gates; the gate of Gad, one, and 
the gate of Asser, one, and the gate of Nephthalim, one.   The circumference, eighteen thousand
measures: and the name of the city, from the day that it shall be 
finished, shall be the name thereof.