

Chapter 
1
 
1:1 Now the word of the Lord came 
to Jonas the son of Amathi, saying, 2 
Rise, and go to Nineve, the great city, and preach in it; for the 
cry of its wickedness is come up to me. 3 
But Jonas rose up to flee to Tharsis from the presence of the 
Lord. And he went down to Joppa, and found a ship going to Tharsis: and he paid 
his fare, and went up into it, to sail with them to Tharsis from the presence of 
the Lord. 
2:1 Now the Lord had commanded a great 
whale to swallow up Jonas: and Jonas was in the belly of the whale three days 
and three nights. 
2 And Jonas prayed to the Lord his God 
out of the belly of the whale, 3 and 
said, I cried in my affliction to the Lord my God, and he hearkened 
to me, even to my cry out of the belly of hell: thou heardest my voice. 4 Thou didst cast me into the depths 
of the heart of the sea, and the floods compassed me: all thy billows and thy 
waves have passed upon me. 5 And I 
said, I am cast out of thy presence: shall I indeed look again toward thy holy 
temple? 6 Water was poured around me 
to the soul: the lowest deep compassed me, my head went down 
7 to the clefts of the mountains; I went 
down into the earth, whose bars are the everlasting barriers: yet, O Lord my 
God, let my ruined life be restored. 
 
8 When my soul was failing me, I 
remembered the Lord; and may my prayer come to thee into thy holy temple. 
9 They that observe vanities and lies have 
forsaken their own mercy. 10 But I 
will sacrifice to thee with the voice of praise and thanksgiving: all that I 
have vowed I will pay to thee, the Lord of my salvation. But Jonas was very deeply grieved, 
and he was confounded.  And he 
prayed to the Lord, and said, O Lord, were not these my words when I was yet in 
my land? therefore I made haste to flee to Tharsis; because I knew that thou are 
merciful and compassionate, long-suffering, and abundant in kindness, and 
repentest of evil.  And now, Lord 
God, take my life from me; for it is better for me to die than to live.
 And the Lord said to Jonas, Art 
thou very much grieved? And Jonas went out from the city, and 
sat over against the city; and he made for himself there a booth, and he sat 
under it, until he should perceive what would become of the city.  And the Lord God commanded a gourd, and 
it came up over the head of Jonas, to be a shadow over his head, to shade him 
from his calamities: and Jonas rejoiced with great joy for the gourd.  And God commanded a worm the next 
morning, and it smote the gourd, and it withered away.  And it came to pass at the rising of the sun, that God 
commanded a burning east wind; and the sun smote on the head of Jonas, and he 
fainted, and despaired of his life, and said, It is better for me to die 
than to live.  And God said to 
Jonas, Art thou very much grieved for the gourd? And he said, I am very much 
grieved, even to death.  And the Lord said, Thou hadst pity on 
the gourd, for which thou has not suffered, neither didst thou rear it; which 
came up before night, and perished before another night:  and shall not I spare Nineve, the great 
city, in which dwell more than twelve myriads of human beings, who do not know 
their right hand or their left hand; and also much cattle?