And it came to pass after the death of Moses, that the Lord spoke to Joshua the son of Naue, the minister of Moses, saying,  Moses my servant is dead; now then arise, go over Jordan, thou and all this people, into the land, which I give them.  Every spot on which ye shall tread I will give it to you, as I said to Moses.  The wilderness and Antilibanus, as far as the great river, the river Euphrates, and as far as the extremity of the sea; your costs shall be from the setting of the sun.  Not a man shall stand against you all the days of thy life; and as I was with Moses, so will I also be with thee, and I will not fail thee, or neglect thee.  Be strong and ‘quit thyself like a man, for thou shalt divide the land to this people, which I sware to give to your fathers.  Be strong, therefore, and quit thyself like a man, to observe and do as Moses my servant commanded thee; and thou shalt not turn therefrom to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayest be wise in whatsoever thou mayest do.  And the book of this law shall not depart out of thy mouth, and thou shalt meditate in it day and night, that thou mayest know how to do all the things that are written in it; then shalt thou prosper, and make thy ways prosperous, and then shalt thou be wise.  Lo! I have commanded thee; be strong and courageous, be not cowardly nor fearful, for the Lord thy God is with thee in all places whither thou goest.  And Joshua commanded the scribes of the people, saying,  Go into the midst of the camp of the people, and command the people, saying, Prepare provisions; for yet three days and ye shall go over this Jordan, entering in to take possession of the land, which the Lord God of your fathers gives to you.  And to Ruben, and to Gad, and to the half tribe of Manasse, Joshua said,  Remember the word which Moses the servant of the Lord commanded you, saying, the Lord your God has caused you to rest, and has given you this land.  Let your wives and your children and your cattle dwell in the land, which he has given you; and ye shall go over well armed before your brethren, every one of you who is strong; and ye shall fight on their side;  until the Lord your God shall have given your brethren rest, as also to you, and they also shall have inherited the land, which the Lord your God gives them; then ye shall depart each one to his inheritance, which Moses gave you beyond Jordan eastward.  And they answered Joshua and said, We will do all things which thou commandest us, and we will go to every place whither thou shalt send us.  Whereinsoever we hearkened to Moses we will hearken to thee; only let the Lord our God be with thee, as he was with Moses.  And whosoever shall disobey thee, and whosoever shall not hearken to thy words as thou shalt command him, let him die; but be thou strong and courageous. And Joshua the son of Naue sent out of Sattin two young men to spy the land, saying, Go up and view the land and Jericho: and the two young men went and entered into Jericho; and they entered into the house of a harlot, whose name was Raab, and lodged there.  An it was reported to the king of Jericho, saying, Men of the sons of Israel have come in hither to spy the land.  And the king of Jericho sent and spoke to Raab, saying, Bring out the men that entered into thine house this night; for they are come to spy out the land.  And the woman took the two men and hid them; and she spoke to the messengers, saying, The men came in to me,  but when the gate was shut in the evening, the men went out; I know not whither they are gone: follow after them, if ye may overtake them.  But she had brought them up upon the house, and hid them in the flax-stalks that were spread by her on the house.  And the men followed after them in the way to Jordan to the fords; and the gate was shut. And it came to pass when the men who pursued after them were gone forth, and before the spies had lain down to sleep, that she came up to them on the top of the house;  and she said to them, I know that the Lord has given you the land; for the fear of you has fallen upon us.  For we have heard that the Lord God dried up the Red Sea before you, when ye came out of the land of Egypt, and all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites, who were beyond Jordan, to Seon and Og, whom ye utterly destroyed.  And when we heard it we were amazed in our heart, and there was no longer any spirit in any of us because of you, for the Lord your god is God in heaven above, and on the earth beneath.  And now swear to me by the Lord God; since I deal mercifully with you, so do ye also deal mercifully with the house of my father:  and save alive the house of my father, my mother, and my brethren, and all my house, and all that they have, and ye shall rescue my soul from death.  And the men said to her, Our life for yours even to death: and she said, When the Lord shall have delivered the city to you, ye shall deal mercifully and truly with me.  And she let them down by the window;  and she said to them, Depart into the hill-country, lest the pursuers meet you, and ye shall be hidden there three days until your pursuers return from after you, and afterwards ye shall depart on your way.  And the men said to her, We are clear of this thy oath.  Behold, we shall enter into a part of the city, and thou shalt set a sign; thou shalt bind this scarlet cord in the window, by which thou hast let us down, and thou shalt bring in to thyself, into thy house, thy father, and thy mother, and thy brethren, and all the family of thy father.  And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall go outside the door of thy house, his guilt shall be upon him, and we shall be quit of this thine oath; and we will be responsible for all that shall be found with thee in thy house.  But if any one should injure us, or betray these our matters, we shall be quit of this thine oath.  And she said to them, Let it be according to your word; and she sent them out, and they departed.  And they came to the hill-country, and remained there three days; and the pursuers searched all the roads, and found them not.  And the two young men returned, and came down out of the mountain; and they went over to Joshua the son of Naue, and told him all things that had happened to them.  And they said to Joshua, The Lord has delivered all the land into our power, and all the inhabitants of that land tremble because of us. And Joshua rose up early in the morning, and departed from Sattin; and they came as far as Jordan, and lodged there before they crossed over.  And it came to pass after three days, that the scribes went through the camp;  and they charged the people, saying, When ye shall see the ark of the covenant of the Lord our God, and our priests and the Levites bearing it, ye shall depart from your places, and ye shall go after it.  But let there be a distance between you and it; ye shall stand as much as two thousand cubits from it. Do not draw nigh to it, that ye may know the way which ye are to go; for ye have not gone the way before.  And Joshua said to the people, Sanctify yourselves against to-morrow, for to-morrow the Lord will do wonders among you.  And Joshua said to the priests, Take up the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and go before the people: and the priests took up the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and went before the people.  And the Lord said to Joshua, This day do I begin to exalt thee before all the children of Israel, that they may know that as I was with Moses, so will I also be with thee.  And now charge the priests that bear the ark of the covenant, saying, As soon as ye shall enter on a part of the water of Jordan, then ye shall stand in Jordan.  And Joshua said to the children of Israel, Come hither, and hearken to the word of the Lord our God.  Hereby ye shall know that the living God is among you, and will utterly destroy from before our face the Chananite, and the Chettite and Pherezite, and the Evite, and the Amorite, and the Gergesite, and the Jebusite.  Behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth passes over Jordan.  Choose for yourselves twelve men of the sons of Israel, one of each tribe.  And it shall come to pass, when the feet of the priests that bear the ark of the covenant of the Lord of the whole earth rest in the water of Jordan, the water of Jordan below shall fail, and the water coming down from above shall stop. And the people removed from their tents to cross over Jordan, and the priests bore the ark of the covenant of the Lord before the people.  And when the priests that bore the ark of the covenant of the Lord entered upon Jordan, and the feet of the priests that bore the ark of the covenant of the Lord were dipped in part of the water of Jordan; (now Jordan overflowed all its banks about the time of wheat harvest:)  then the waters that came down from above stopped; there stood one solid heap very far off, as far as the region of Kariathiarim, and the lower part came down to the sea of Araba, the salt sea, till it completely failed; and the people stood opposite Jericho.  And the priests that bore the ark of the covenant of the Lord stood on dry land in the midst of Jordan; and all the children of Israel went through on dry land, until all the people had completely gone over Jordan. And when the people had completely passed over Jordan, the Lord spoke to Joshua, saying,  Take men from the people, one of each tribe,  and charge them; and ye shall take out of the midst of Jordan twelve fit stones, and having carried them across together with yourselves, place them in your camp, where ye shall encamp for the night.  And Joshua having called twelve men of distinction among the children of Israel, one of each tribe,  said to them, Advance before me in the presence of the Lord into the midst of Jordan, and each having taken up a stone from thence, let him carry it on his shoulders, according to the number of the twelve tribes of Israel:  that these may be to you continually for an appointed sign, that when thy son asks thee in future, saying, What are these stones to us?  then thou mayest explain to thy son, saying, The river Jordan was dried up from before the ark of the covenant of the Lord of the whole earth, when it passed it: and these stones shall be for a memorial for you for the children of Israel for ever.  And the children of Israel did so, as the Lord commanded Joshua; and they took up twelve stones out of the midst of Jordan, (as the Lord commanded Joshua, when the children of Israel had completely passed over,)and carried these stones with them into the camp, and laid them down there.  And Joshua set also other twelve stones in Jordan itself, in the place that was under the feet of the priests that bore the ark of the covenant of the Lord; and there they are to this day. And the priests that bore the ark of the covenant stood in Jordan, until Joshua had finished all that the Lord commanded him to report to the people; and the people hasted and passed over.  And it came to pass when all the people had passed over, that the ark of the covenant of the Lord passed over, and the stones before them.  And the sons of Ruben, and the sons of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasse passed over armed before the children of Israel, as Moses commanded them.  Forty thousand armed for battle went over before the Lord to war, to the city of Jericho.  In that day the Lord magnified Joshua before all the people of Israel; and they feared him, as they did Moses, as long as he lived.  And the Lord spoke to Joshua, saying,  Charge the priests that bear the ark of the covenant of the testimony of the Lord, to go up out of Jordan.  And Joshua charged the priests, saying, Go up out of Jordan.  And it came to pass when the priests who bore the ark of the covenant of the Lord were gone up out of Jordan, and set their feet upon the land, that the water of Jordan returned impetuously to its place, and went as before over all its banks.  And the people went up out of Jordan on the tenth day of the first month; and the children of Israel encamped in Galgala in the region eastward from Jericho.  And Joshua set these twelve stones which he took out of Jordan, in Galgala,  saying, When your sons ask you, saying, What are these stones?  Tell your sons, that Israel went over this Jordan on dry land,  when the Lord our God had dried up the water of Jordan from before them, until they had passed over; as the Lord our God did to the Red Sea, which the Lord our God dried up from before us, until we passed over.  That all the nations of the earth might know, that the power of the Lord is mighty, and that ye might worship the Lord our God in every work. And it came to pass when the kings of the Amorites who were beyond Jordan heard, and the kings of Phoenicia by the sea, that the Lord God had dried up the river Jordan from before the children of Israel when they passed over, that their hearts failed, and they were terror-stricken, and there was no sense in them because of the children of Israel.  And about this time the Lord said to Joshua, Make thee stone knives of sharp stone, and sit down and circumcise the children of Israel the second time.  And Joshua made sharp knives of stone, and circumcised the children of Israel at the place called the "Hill of Foreskins."  And this is the way in which Joshua purified the children of Israel; as many as were born in the way, and as many as were uncircumcised of them that came out of Egypt,  all these Joshua circumcised; for forty and two years Israel wondered in the wilderness of Mabdaris—  Wherefore most of the fighting men that came out of the land of Egypt, were uncircumcised, who disobeyed the commands of God; concerning whom also he determined that they should not see the land, which the Lord sware to give to their fathers, even a land flowing with milk and honey.  And in their place he raised up their sons, whom Joshua circumcised, because they were uncircumcised, having been born by the way.  And when they had been circumcised they rested continuing there in the camp till they were healed.  And the Lord said to Joshua the son of Naue, On this day have I removed the reproach of Egypt from you: and he called the name of that place Galgala. And the children of Israel kept the passover on the fourteenth day of the month at evening, to the westward of Jericho on the opposite side of the Jordan in the plain.  And they ate of the grain of the earth unleavened and new corn.  In this day the manna failed, after they had eaten of the corn of the land, and the children of Israel no longer had manna: and they took the fruits of the land of the Phoenicians in that year. And it came to pass when Joshua was in Jericho, that he looked up with his eyes and saw a man standing before him, and there was a drawn sword in his hand; and Joshua drew near and said to him, Art thou for us or on the side of our enemies?  And he said to him, I am now come, the chief captain of the host of the Lord.   And Joshua fell on his face upon the earth, and said to him, Lord, what commandest thou thy servant?   And the captain of the Lord’s host said to Joshua, Loose thy shoe off thy feet, for the place whereon thou now standest is holy. Now Jericho was closely shut up and besieged, and none went out of it, and none came in.  And the Lord said to Joshua, Behold, I deliver Jericho into thy power, and its king in it, and its mighty men.  And do thou set the men of war round about it.  And it shall be that when ye shall sound with the trumpet, all the people shall shout together.   And when they have shouted, the walls of the city shall fall of themselves; and all the people shall enter, each one rushing direct into the city. And Joshua the son of Naue went in to the priests, and spoke to them, saying,   And let seven priests having seven sacred trumpets proceed thus before the Lord, and let them sound loudly; and let the ark of the covenant of the Lord follow.   Charge the people to go round, and encompass the city; and let your men of war pass on armed before the Lord.  And let the men of war proceed before, and the priests bringing up the rear behind the ark of the covenant of the Lord proceed sounding the trumpets.  And Joshua commanded the people, saying, Cry not out, nor let any one hear your voice, until he himself declare to you the time to cry out, and then ye shall cry out.  And the ark of the covenant of God having gone round immediately returned into the camp, and lodged there.  And on the second day Joshua rose up in the morning, and the priests took up the ark of the covenant of the Lord.  And the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets went on before the Lord; and afterwards the men of war went on, and the remainder of the multitude went after the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and the priests sounded with the trumpets.  And all the rest of the multitude compassed the city six times from within a short distance, and went back again into the camp; this they did six days.  And on the seventh day they rose up early, and compassed the city on that day seven times.  And it came to pass at the seventh circuit the priests blew the trumpets; and Joshua said to the children of Israel, Shout, for the Lord has given you the city.  And the city shall be devoted, it and all things that are in it, to the Lord of Hosts: only do ye save Raab the harlot, and all things in her house.  But keep yourselves strictly from the accursed thing, lest ye set your mind upon and take of the accursed thing, and ye make the camp of the children of Israel and accursed thing, and destroy us.  And all the silver, or gold, or brass, or iron, shall be holy to the Lord; it shall be carried into the treasury of the Lord.  And the priests sounded with the trumpets: and when the people heard the trumpets, all the people shouted at once with a loud and strong shout; and all the wall fell round about, and all the people went up into the city:  and Joshua devoted it to destruction, and all things that were in the city, man and woman, young man and old, and calf and ass, with the edge of the sword.  And Joshua said to the two young men who had acted a spies, Go into the house of the woman, and bring her out thence, and all that she has.  And the two young men who had spied out the city entered into the house of the woman, and brought out Raab the harlot, and her father, and her mother, and her brethren, and her kindred, and all that she had; and they set her without the camp of Israel.  And the city was burnt with fire with all things that were in it; only of the silver, and gold, and brass, and iron, they gave to be brought into the treasury of the Lord.  And Joshua saved alive Raab the harlot, and all the house of her father, and caused her to dwell in Israel until this day, because she hid the spies which Joshua sent to spy out Jericho.  And Joshua adjured them on that day before the Lord, saying, Cursed be the man who shall build that city: he shall lay the foundation of it in his first-born, and he shall set up the gates of it in his youngest son. And so did Hozan of Baethel; he laid the foundation in Abiron his first-born, and set up the gates of it in his youngest surviving son.  And the Lord was with Joshua, and his name was in all the land. But the children of Israel committed a great trespass, and purloined part of the accursed thing; and Achar the son of Charmi, the son of Zambri, the son of Zara, of the tribe of Juda, took of the accursed thing; and the Lord was very angry with the children of Israel.  And Joshua sent men to Gai, which is by Baethel, saying, Spy out Gai: and the men went up and spied Gai.  And they returned to Joshua, and said to him, Let not all the people go up, but let about two or three thousand men go up and take the city by siege: carry not up thither the whole people, for the enemy are few.  And there went up about three thousand men, and they fled from before the men of Gai.  And the men of Gai slew of them to the number of thirty-six men, and they pursued them from the gate, and destroyed them from the steep hill; and the heart of the people was alarmed and became as water. And Joshua tore his garments; and Joshua fell on the earth on his face before the Lord until evening, he and the elders of Israel; and they cast dust on their heads.  And Joshua said, I pray, Lord, wherefore has thy servant brought this people over Jordan to deliver them to the Amorite to destroy us? would we had remained and settled ourselves beyond Jordan.  And what shall I say since Israel has turned his back before his enemy?  And when the Chananite and all the inhabitants of the land hear it, they shall compass us round and destroy us from off the land: and what wilt thou do for thy great name? And the Lord said to Joshua, Rise up; why hast thou fallen upon thy face?  The people has sinned, and transgressed the covenant which I made with them; they have stolen from the cursed thing, and put it into their store.  And the children of Israel will not be able to stand before their enemies; they will turn their back before their enemies, for they have become an accursed thing: I will not any longer be with you, unless ye remove the cursed thing from yourselves.  Rise, sanctify the people and tell them to sanctify themselves for the morrow: thus says the Lord God of Israel, The accursed thing is among you; ye shall not be able to stand before your enemies, until ye shall have removed the cursed thing from among you.  And ye shall all be gathered together by your tribes in the morning, and it shall come to pass that the tribe which the Lord shall shew, ye shall bring by families; and the family which the Lord shall shew, ye shall bring by households; and the household which the Lord shall shew, ye shall bring man by man.  And the man who shall be pointed out, shall be burnt with fire, and all that he has; because he has transgressed the covenant of the Lord, and has wrought wickedness in Israel. And Joshua rose up early, and brought the people by their tribes; and the tribe of Juda was pointed out.  And it was brought by their families, and family of the Zaraites was pointed out.  And it was brought man by man, and Achar the son of Zambri the son of Zara was pointed out.  And Joshua said to Achar, Give glory this day to the Lord God of Israel, and make confession; and tell me what thou hast done, and hide it not from me.  And Achar answered Joshua, and said, Indeed I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel: thus and thus have I done:  I saw in the spoil an embroidered mantle, and two hundred didrachms of silver, and one golden wedge of fifty didrachms, and I desired them and took them; and, behold, they are hid in my tent, and the silver is hid under them.  And Joshua sent messengers, and they ran to the tent into the camp; and these things were hidden in his tent, and the silver under them.  And they brought them out of the tent, and brought them to Joshua and the elders of Israel, and they laid them before the Lord.  And Joshua took Achar the son of Zara, and brought him to the valley of Achor, and his sons, and his daughters, and his calves, and his asses, and all his sheep, and his tent, and all his property, and all the people were with him; and he brought them to Emec Achor.  And Joshua said to Achar, Why hast thou destroyed us? the Lord destroy thee as at this day. And all Israel stoned him with stones.  And they set up over him a great heap of stones; and the Lord ceased from his fierce anger. Therefore he called the place Emecachor until this day. And the Lord said to Joshua, Fear not, nor be timorous: take with thee all the men of war, and arise, go up to Gai; behold, I have given into thy hands the king of Gai, and his land.  And thou shalt do to Gai, as thou didst to Jericho and its king; and thou shalt take to thyself the spoil of its cattle; set now for thyself an ambush for the city behind.  And Joshua and all the men of war rose to go up to Gai; and Joshua chose out thirty thousand mighty men, and he sent them away by night.  And he charged them, saying, Do ye lie in ambush behind the city: do not go far from the city, and ye shall all be ready.  Land I and all with me will draw near to the city: and it shall come to pass when the inhabitants of Gai shall come forth to meet us, as before, that we will flee from before them.  And when they shall come out after us, we will draw them away from the city; and they will say, These men flee from before us, as also before.  And ye shall rise up out of the ambuscade, and go into the city.  Ye shall do according to this word, lo! I have commanded you.  And Joshua sent them, and they went to lie in ambush; and they lay between Baethel and Gai, westward of Gai.  And Joshua rose up early in the morning, and numbered the people; and he went up, he and the elders before the people to Gai.  And all the men of war went up with him, and they went forward and came over against the city eastward.  And the ambuscade was on the west side of the city.  And it came to pass when the king of Gai saw it, he hasted and went out to meet them direct to the battle, he and all the people that were with him: and he knew not that there was an ambuscade formed against him behind the city.  And Joshua and Israel saw, and retreated from before them.  And they pursued after the children of Israel, and they themselves went to a distance from the city.  There was no one left in Gai who did not pursue after Israel; and they left the city open, and pursued after Israel.  And the Lord said to Joshua, Stretch forth thy hand with the spear that is in thy hand toward the city, for I have delivered it into thy hands; and the liers in wait shall rise up quickly out of their place.  And Joshua stretched out his hand and his spear toward the city, and the ambuscade rose up quickly out of their place; and they came forth when he stretched out his hand; and they entered into the city, and took it; and they hasted and burnt the city with fire.  And when the inhabitants of Gai looked round behind them, then they saw the smoke going up out of the city to heaven, and they were no longer able to flee this way or that way.  And Joshua and all Israel saw that the ambuscade had taken the city, and that the smoke of the city went up to heaven; and they turned and smote the men of Gai.  And these came forth out of the city to meet them; and they were in the midst of the army, some being on this side, and some on that; and they smote them until there was not left of them one who survived and escaped.  And they took the king of Gai alive, and brought him to Joshua.  And when the children of Israel had ceased slaying all that were in Gai, and in the fields, and in the mountain on the descent, from whence they pursued them even to the end, then Joshua returned to Gai, and smote it with the edge of the sword.  And they that fell in that day, men and women, were twelve thousand: they slew all the inhabitants of Gai.  Beside the spoils that were in the city, all things which the children of Israel took as spoil for themselves according to the command of the Lord, as the Lord commanded Joshua.  And Joshua burnt the city with fire: he made it an uninhabited heap for ever, even to this day.  And he hanged the king of Gai on a gallows; and he remained on the tree till evening: and when the sun went down, Joshua gave charge, and they took down his body from the tree, and cast it into a pit, and they set over him a heap of stones until this day. And when the kings of the Amorites on the other side of Jordan, who were in the mountain country, and in the plain, and in all the coast of the great sea, and those who were near Antilibanus, and the Chettites, and the Chananites, and the Pherezites, and the Evites, and the Amorites, and the Gergesites, and the Jebusites, heard of it,  they came all together at the same time to make war against Joshua and Israel. And the inhabitants of Gabaon heard of all that the Lord did to Jericho and Gai.  And they also wrought craftily, and they went and made provision and prepared themselves; and having taken old sacks on their shoulders, and old and rent and patched bottles of wine,  and the upper part of their shoes and their sandals old and clouted on their feet, and their garments old upon them—and the bread of their provision was dry and mouldy and corrupt.  And they came to Joshua into the camp of Israel to Galgala, and said to Joshua and Israel, We are come from a far land: now then make a covenant with us.  And the children of Israel said to the Chorrhaean, Peradventure thou dwellest amongst us; and how should I make a covenant with thee?  And they said to Joshua, We are thy servants: and Joshua said to them, Whence are ye, and whence have ye come?  And they said, Thy servants are come from a very far country in the name of the Lord thy God: for we have heard his name, and all that he did in Egypt,  and all that he did to the kings of the Amorites, who were beyond Jordan, to Seon king of the Amorites, and Og king of Basan, who dwelt in Astaroth and in Edrain.  And our elders and all that inhabit our land when they heard spoke to us, saying, Take to yourselves provision for the way, and go to meet them; and ye shall say to them, We are thy servants, and now make a covenant with us.  These are the loaves—we took them hot for our journey on the day on which we came out to come to you; and now they are dried and become mouldy.  And these are the skins of wine which we filled when new, and they are rent; and our garments and our shoes are worn out because of the very long journey.  And the chiefs took of their provision, and asked not counsel of the Lord.  And Joshua made peace with them, and they made a covenant with them to preserve them; and the princes of the congregation sware to them.  And it came to pass three days after they had made a covenant with them, they heard that they were near neighbours, and that they dwelt among them.  And the children of Israel departed and came to their cities; and their cities were Gabaon, and Kephira, and Berot, and the cities of Jarin.  Land the children of Israel fought not with them, because all the princes sware to them by the Lord God of Israel; and all the congregation murmured at the princes.  And the princes said to all the congregation: We have sworn to them by the Lord God of Israel, and now we shall not be able to touch them.  This we will do; take them alive, and we will preserve them: so there shall not be wrath against us by reason of the oath which we swore to them.  They shall live, and shall be hewers of wood and drawers of water to all the congregation, as the princes said to them. And Joshua called them together and said to them, Why have ye deceived me, saying, We live very far from you; whereas ye are fellow-countrymen of those who dwell among us?  And now ye are cursed: there shall not fail of you a slave, or a hewer of wood, or a drawer of water to me and my God.  And they answered Joshua, saying, It was reported to us what the Lord thy God charged his servant Moses, to give you this land, and to destroy us and all that dwelt on it from before you; and we feared very much for our lives because of you, and therefore we did this thing.  And now, behold, we are in your power; do to us as it is pleasing to you, and as it seems good to you.  Aand they did so to them; and Joshua rescued them in that day out of the hands of the children of Israel, and they did not slay them.  And Joshua made them in that day hewers of wood and drawers of water to the whole congregation, and for the altar of God: therefore the inhabitants of Gabaon became hewers of wood and drawers of water for the altar of God until this day, even for the place which the Lord should choose. And when Adoni-bezec king of Jerusalem heard that Joshua had taken Gai, and had destroyed it, as he did to Jericho and its king, even so they did to Gai and its king, and that the inhabitants of Gabaon had gone over to Joshua and Israel;  then they were greatly terrified by them, for the king knew that Gabaon was a great city, as one of the chief cities, and all its men were mighty.  So Adoni-bezec king of Jerusalem sent to Elam king of Hebron, and to Phidon king of Jerimuth, and to Jephtha king of Lachis, and to Dabin king of Odollam, saying,  Come up hither to me, and help me, and let us take Gabaon; for the Gabaonites have gone over to Joshua and to the children of Israel.  And the five kings of the Jebusites went up, the king of Jerusalem, and the king of Chebron, and the king of Jerimuth, and the king of Lachis, and the king of Odollam, they and all their people; and encamped around Gabaon, and besieged it.  And the inhabitants of Gabaon sent to Joshua into the camp to Galgala, saying, Slack not thy hands from thy servants: come up quickly to us, and help us, and rescue us; for all the kings of the Amorites who dwell in the hill country are gathered together against us.  And Joshua went up from Galgala, he and all the people of war with him, every one mighty in strength.  And the Lord said to Joshua, Fear them not, for I have delivered them into thy hands; there shall not one of them be left before you.  And when Joshua came suddenly upon them, he had advanced all the night out of Galgala.  And the Lord struck them with terror before the children of Israel; and the Lord destroyed them with a great slaughter at Gabaon; and they pursued them by the way of the going up of Oronin, and they smote them to Azeca and to Makeda.  And when they fled from the face of the children of Israel at the descent of Oronin, then the Lord cast upon them hailstones from heaven to Azeca; and they were more that died by the hailstones, than those whom the children of Israel slew with the sword in the battle.  Then Joshua spoke to the Lord, in the day in which the Lord delivered the Amorite into the power of Israel, when he destroyed them in Gabaon, and they were destroyed from before the children of Israel: and Joshua said, Let the sun stand over against Gabaon, and the moon over against the valley of Ælon.  And the sun and the moon stood still, until God executed vengeance on their enemies; and the sun stood still in the midst of heaven; it did not proceed to set till the end of one day.  And there was not such a day either before or after, so that God should hearken to a man, because the Lord fought on the side of Israel. And these five kings fled, and hid themselves in a cave that is in Makeda.  And it was told Joshua, saying, The five kings have been found hid in the cave that is in Makeda.  And Joshua said, Roll stones to the mouth of the cave, and set men to watch over them.  But do not ye stand, but pursue after your enemies, and attack the rear of them, and do not suffer them to enter into their cities; for the Lord our God has delivered them into our hands.  And it came to pass when Joshua and all Israel ceased destroying them utterly with a very great slaughter, that they that escaped took refuge in the strong cities.  And all the people returned safe to Joshua to Makeda; and no one of the children of Israel murmured with his tongue.  And Joshua said, Open the cave, and bring out these five kings out of the cave.  And they brought out the five kings out of the cave, the king of Jerusalem, and the king of Chebron, and the king of Jerimuth, and the king of Lachis, and the king of Odollam.  And when they brought them out to Joshua, then Joshua called together all Israel, and the chiefs of the army that went with him, saying to them, Come forward and set your feet on their necks; and they came and set their feet on their necks.  And Joshua said to them, Do not fear them, neither be cowardly; be courageous and strong, for thus the Lord will do to all your enemies, against whom ye fight.  And Joshua slew them, and hanged them on five trees; and they hung upon the trees until the evening.  And it came to pass toward the setting of the sun, Joshua commanded, and they took them down from the trees, and cast them into the cave into which they had fled for refuge, and rolled stones to the cave, which remain till this day. And they took Makeda on that day, and slew the inhabitants with the edge of the sword, and they utterly destroyed every living thing that was in it; and there was none left in it that was preserved and had escaped; and they did to the king of Makeda, as they did to the king of Jericho.  And Joshua and all Israel with him departed out of Makeda to Lebna, and besieged Lebna.  And the Lord delivered it into the hands of Israel: and they took it, and its king, and slew the inhabitants with the edge of the sword, and every thing breathing in it; and there was not left in it any that survived and escaped; and they did to its king, as they did to the king of Jericho.  And Joshua and all Israel with him departed from Lebna to Lachis, and he encamped about it, and besieged it.  And the Lord delivered Lachis into the hands of Israel; and they took it on the second day, and they put the inhabitants to death with the edge of the sword, and utterly destroyed it, as they had done to Lebna.  Then Elam the king of Gazer went up to help Lachis; and Joshua smote him and his people with the edge of the sword, until there was not left to him one that was preserved and escaped.  And Joshua and all Israel with him departed from Lachis to Odollam, and he besieged it and took it.  And the Lord delivered it into the hand of Israel; and he took it on that day, and slew the inhabitants with the edge of the sword, and slew every thing breathing in it, as they did to Lachis.  And Joshua and all Israel with him departed to Chebron, and encamped about it.  And he smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the living creatures that were in it; there was no one preserved: they destroyed it and all things in it, as they did to Odollam.  And Joshua and all Israel returned to Dabir; and they encamped about it;  and they took it, and its king, and its villages: and he smote it with the edge of the sword, and they destroyed it, and every thing breathing in it; and they did not leave in it any one that was preserved: as they did to Chebron and her king, so they did to Dabir and her king.  And Joshua smote all the land of the hill country, and Nageb and the plain country, and Asedoth, and her kings, they did not leave of them one that was saved: and they utterly destroyed every thing that had the breath of life, as the Lord God of Israel commanded,  from Cades Barne to Gaza, all Gosom, as far as Gabaon.  And Joshua smote, once for all, all their kings, and their land, because the Lord God of Israel fought on the side of Israel. And when Jabis the king of Asor heard, he sent to Jobab king of Maron, and to the king of Symoon, and to the king of Aziph,  and to the kings who were by the great Sidon, to the hill country and to Araba opposite Keneroth, and to the plain, and to Phenaeddor,  and to the Chananites on the coast eastward, and to the Amorites on the coast, and the Chettites, and the Pherezites, and the Jebusites in the mountain, and the Evites, and those dwelling under mount Aermon in the land Massyma.  And they and their kings with them went forth, as the sand of the sea in multitude, and horses, and very many chariots.  And all the kings assembled in person, and came to the same place, and encamped at the waters of Maron to war with Israel.  And the Lord said to Joshua, Be not afraid of them, for to-morrow at this time I will put them to flight before Israel: thou shalt hough their horses, and burn their chariots with fire  And Joshua and all the men of war came upon them at the water of Maron suddenly; and they attacked them in the hill country.  And the Lord delivered them into the power of Israel; and they smote them and pursued them to great Sidon, and to Maseron, and to the plains of Massoch eastward; and they destroyed them till there was not one of them left that survived.  And Joshua did to them, as the Lord commanded him: he houghed their horses, and burned their chariots with fire. And Joshua returned at that time, and took Asor and her king; now Asor in former time was the chief of these kingdoms.  And they slew with the sword all that breathed in it, and utterly destroyed them all, and there was no living thing left in it; and they burnt Asor with fire.  And Joshua took all the cities of the kingdoms, and their kings, and slew them with the edge of the sword; and utterly slew them, as Moses the servant of the Lord commanded.  But all the walled cities Israel burnt not; but Israel burnt Asor only.  And the children of Israel took all its spoils to themselves; and they slew all the men with the edge of the sword, until he destroyed them; they left not one of them breathing.  As the Lord commanded his servant Moses, even so Moses commanded Joshua; and so Joshua did, he transgressed no precept of all that Moses commanded him.  And Joshua took all the hill country, and all the land of Nageb, and all the land of Gosom, and the plain country, and that toward the west, and the mountain of Israel and the low country by the mountain;  from the mountain of Chelcha, and that which goes up to Seir, and as far as Balagad, and the plains of Libanus, under mount Aermon; and he took all their kings, and destroyed, and slew them.  And for many days Joshua waged war with these kings.  And there was no city which Israel took not; they took all in war.  For it was of the Lord to harden their hearts to go forth to war against Israel, that they might be utterly destroyed, that mercy should not be granted to them, but that they should be utterly destroyed, as the Lord said to Moses.  And Joshua came at that time, and utterly destroyed the Enakim out of the hill country, from Chebron and from Dabir, and from Anaboth, and from all the race of Israel, and from all the mountain of Juda with their cities; and Joshua utterly destroyed them.  There was not any one left of the Enakim by the children of Israel, only there was left of them in Gaza, and in Gath, and in Aseldo.  And Joshua took all the land, as the Lord commanded Moses; and Joshua gave them for an inheritance to Israel by division according to their tribes; and the land ceased from war. And these are the kings of the land, whom the children of Israel slew, and inherited their land beyond Jordan from the east, from the valley of Arnon to the mount of Aermon, and all the land of Araba on the east.  Seon king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Esebon, ruling from Arnon, which is in the valley, on the side of the valley, and half of Galaad as far as Jaboc, the borders of the children of Ammon.  And Araba as far as the sea of Chenereth eastward, and as far as the sea of Araba; the salt sea eastward by the way to Asimoth, from Thaeman under Asedoth Phasga.  And Og king of Basan, who dwelt in Astaroth and in Edrain, was left of the giants  ruling from mount Aermon and from Secchai, and over all the land of Basan to the borders of Gergesi, and Machi, and the half of Galaad of the borders of Seon king of Esebon.  Moses the servant of the Lord and the children of Israel smote them; and Moses gave them by way of inheritance to Ruben, and Gad, and to the half tribe of Manasse.  And these are the kings of the Amorites, whom Joshua and the children of Israel slew beyond Jordan by the sea of Balagad in the plain of Libanus, and as far as the mountain of Chelcha, as men go up to Seir: and Joshua gave it to the tribes of Israel to inherit according to their portion;  in the mountain, and in the plain, and in Araba, and in Asedoth, and in the wilderness, and Nageb; the Chettite, and the Amorite, and the Chananite, and the Pherezite, and the Evite, and the Jebusite.  The king of Jericho, and the king of Gai, which is near Baethel;  the king of Jerusalem, the king of Chebron,  the king of Jerimuth, the king of Lachis;  the king of Ælam, the king of Gazer;  the king of Dabir, the king of Gader:  the king of Hermath, the king of Ader;  the king of Lebna, the king of Odollam,  the king of Elath,  the king of Taphut, the king of Opher,  the king of Ophec of Aroc,  the king of Asom,  the king of Symoon, the king of Mambroth, the king of Aziph,  the king of Cades, the king of Zachac,  the king of Maredoth, the king of Jecom of Chermel,  the king of Odollam belonging to Phennealdor, the king of Gei of Galilee:  the king of Thersa: all these were twenty-nine kings. And Joshua was old and very advanced in years; and the Lord said to Joshua, Thou art advanced in years, and there is much land left to inherit.  And this is the land that is left: the borders of the Phylistines, the Gesirite, and the Chananite,  from the wilderness before Egypt, as far as the borders of Accaron on the left of the Chananites the land is reckoned to the five principalities of the Phylistines, to the inhabitant of Gaza, and of Azotus, and of Ascalon, and of Geth, and of Accaron, and to the Evite;  from Thaeman even to all the land of Chanaan before Gaza, and the Sidonians as far as Aphec, as far as the borders of the Amorites.  And all the land of Galiath of the Phylistines, and all Libanus eastward from Galgal, under the mountain Aermon as far as the entering in of Emath;  every one that inhabits the hill country from Libanus as far as Masereth Memphomaim. All the Sidonians, I will destroy them from before Israel; but do thou give them by inheritance to Israel, as I charged thee. And now divide this land by lot to the nine tribes, and to the half tribe of Manasse.  From Jordan to the great sea westward thou shalt give it them: the great sea shall be the boundary. But to the two tribes and to the half tribe of Manasse, to Ruben and to Gad Moses gave an inheritance beyond Jordan: Moses the servant of the Lord gave it to them eastward,  from Aroer, which is on the bank of the brook of Arnon, and the city in the midst of the valley, and all Misor from Maedaban.  All the cities of Seon king of the Amorites, who reigned from Esebon to the coasts of the children of Ammon;  and the region of Galaad, and the borders of the Gesirites and the Machatites, the whole mount of Aermon, and all the land of Basan to Acha.  All the kingdom of Og in the region of Basan, who reigned in Astaroth and in Edrain: he was left of the giants; and Moses smote him, and destroyed him.  But the children of Israel destroyed not the Gesirite and the Machatite and the Chananite; and the king of the Gesiri and the Machatite dwelt among the children of Israel until this day.  Only no inheritance was given to the tribe of Levi: the Lord God of Israel, he is their inheritance, as the Lord said to them; and this is the division which Moses made to the children of Israel in Araboth Moab, on the other side of Jordan, by Jericho.  And Moses gave the land to the tribe of Ruben according to their families.  And their borders were from Aroer, which is opposite the brook of Arnon, and theirs is the city that is in the valley of Arnon; and all Misor,  to Esebon, and all the cities in Misor, and Daebon, and Baemon-Baal, and the house of Meelboth;  and Basan, and Bakedmoth, and Maephaad,  and Kariathaim, and Sebama, and Serada, and Sion in mount Enab;  and Baethphogor, and Asedoth Phasga, and Baetthasinoth,  and all the cities of Misor, and all the kingdom of Seon king of the Amorites, whom Moses smote, even him and the princes of Madian, and Evi, and Roboc, and Sur, and Ur, and Robe prince of the spoils of Sion, and the inhabitants of Sion.  And Balaam the son of Baeor the prophet they slew in the battle.  And the borders of Ruben were—even Jordan was the boundary; this is the inheritance of the children of Ruben according to their families, these were their cities and their villages.  And Moses gave inheritance to the sons of Gad according to their families.  And their borders were Jazer, all the cities of Galaad, and half the land of the children of Ammon to Araba, which is before Arad.  And from Esebon to Araboth by Massepha, and Botanim, and Maan to the borders of Daebon,  and Enadom, and Othargai, and Baenthanabra, and Soccotha, and Saphan, and the rest of the kingdom of Sean king of Esebon: and Jordan shall be the boundary as far as part of the sea of Chenereth beyond Jordan eastward.  This is the inheritance of the children of Gad according to their families and according to their cities: according to their families they will turn their backs before their enemies, because their cities and their villages were according to their families.  And Moses gave to half the tribe of Manasse according to their families.  And their borders were from Maan, and all the kingdom of Basan, and all the kingdom of Og king of Basan, and all the villages of Jair, which are in the region of Basan, sixty cities:  and the half of Galaad, and in Astaroth, and in Edrain, royal cities of Og in the land of Basan, Moses gave to the sons of Machir the sons of Manasse, even to the half-tribe sons of Machir the sons of Manasse, according to their families.  These are they whom Moses caused to inherit beyond Jordan in Araboth Moab, beyond Jordan by Jericho eastward.  And these are they of the children of Israel that received their inheritance in the land of Chanaan, to whom Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the sonof Naue, and the heads of the families of the tribes of the children of Israel, gave inheritance.  They inherited according to their lots, as the Lord commanded by the hand of Joshua to the nine tribes and the half tribe, on the other side of Jordan.  But to the Levites he gave no inheritance among them.  For the sons of Joseph were two tribes, Manasse and Ephraim; and there was none inheritance in the land given to the Levites, only cities to dwell in, and their suburbs separated for the cattle, and their cattle.  As the Lord commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel; and they divided the land. And the children of Juda came to Joshua in Galgal, and Chaleb the son of Jephone the Kenezite said to him, Thou knowest the word that the Lord spoke to Moses the man of God concerning me and thee in Cades Barne.  For I was forty years old when Moses the servant of God sent me out of Cades Barne to spy out the land; and I returned him an answer according to his mind.  My brethren that went up with me turned away the heart of the people, but I applied my self to follow the Lord my God.  And Moses sware on that day, saying, The land on which thou art gone up, it shall be thy inheritance and thy children’s for ever, because thou hast applied thyself to follow the Lord our God.  And now the Lord has kept me alive as he said: this is the forty-fifth year since the Lord spoke that word to Moses; and Israel journeyed in the wilderness; and now, behold, I am this day eighty-five years old.  I am still strong this day, as when the Lord sent me: just so strong am I now to go out and to come in for war.  And now I ask of thee this mountain, as the Lord said in that day; for thou heardest this word on that day; and now the Enakim are there, cities great and strong: if then the Lord should be with me, I will utterly destroy them, as the Lord said to me.  And Joshua blessed him, and gave Chebron to Chaleb the son of Jephone the son of Kenez for an inheritance.  Therefore Chebron became the inheritance of Chaleb the son of Jephone the Kenezite until this day, because he followed the commandment of the Lord God of Israel.  And the name of Chebron before was the city Argob, it is the metropolis of the Enakim: and the land rested from war. And the borders of the tribe of Juda according to their families were from the borders of Idumea from the wilderness of sin, as far as Cades southward.  And their borders were from the south as far as a part of the salt sea from the high country that extends southward.  And they proceed before the ascent of Acrabin, and go out round Sena, and go up from the south to Cades Barne; and go out to Asoron, and proceed up to Sarada, and go out by the way that is west of Cades.  And they go out to Selmona, and issue at the valley of Egypt; and the termination of its boundaries shall be at the sea: these are their boundaries southward.  And their boundaries eastward are all the salt sea as far as Jordan; and their borders from the north, and from the border of the sea, and from part of Jordan—  the borders go up to Baethaglaam, and they go along from the north to Baetharaba, and the borders go on up to the stone of Baeon the son of Ruben.  And the borders continue on to the fourth part of the valley of Achor, and go down to Galgal, which is before the approach of Adammin, which is southward in the valley, and terminate at the water of the fountain of the sun; and their going forth shall be the fountain of Rogel.  And the borders go up to the valley of Ennom, behind Jebus southward; this is Jerusalem: and the borders terminate at the top of the mountain, which is before the valley of Ennom toward the sea, which is by the side of the land of Raphain northward.  And the border going forth from the top of the mountain terminates at the fountain of the water of Naphtho, and terminates at mount Ephron; and the border will lead to Baal; this is the city of Jarim.  And the border will go round from Baal to the sea, and will go on to the mount of Assar behind the city of Jarin northwards; this is Chaslon: and it will come down to the city of Sun, and will go on to the south.  And the border terminates behind Accaron northward, and the borders will terminate at Socchoth, and the borders will go on to the south, and will terminate at Lebna, and the issue of the borders will be at the sea; and their borders shall be toward the sea, the great sea shall be the boundary.  These are the borders of the children of Juda round about according to their families. And to Chaleb the son of Jephone he gave a portion in the midst of the children of Juda by the command of God; and Joshua gave him the city of Arboc the metropolis of Enac; this is Chebron.  And Chaleb the son of Jephone destroyed thence the three sons of Enac, Susi, and Tholami, and Achima.  And Chaleb went up thence to the inhabitants of Dabir; and the name of Dabir before was the city of Letters.  And Chaleb said, Whosoever shall take and destroy the city of Letters, and master it, to him will I give my daughter Ascha to wife.  And Gothoniel the son of Chenez the brother of Chaleb took it; and he gave him Ascha his daughter to wife.  And it came to pass as she went out that she counselled him, saying, I will ask of my father a field; and she cried from off her ass; and Chaleb said to her, What is it?  And she said to him, Give me a blessing, for thou hast set me in the land of Nageb; give me Botthanis: and he gave her Gonaethla the upper, and Gonaethla the lower. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Juda.  And their cities were cities belonging to the tribe of the children of Juda on the borders of Edom by the wilderness, and Baeseleel, and Ara, and Asor,  and Icam, and Regma, and Aruel,  and Cades, and Asorionain, and Maenam,  and Balmaenan, and their villages,  and the cities of Aseron, this is Asor,  and Sen, and Salmaa, and Molada,  and Seri, and Baephalath,  and Cholaseola, and Beersabee; and their villages, and their hamlets,  Bala and Bacoc, and Asom,  and Elboudad, and Baethel, and Herma,  and Sekelac, and Macharim, and Sethennac,  and Labos, and Sale, and Eromoth; twenty-nine cities, and their villages.  In the plain country Astaol, and Raa, and Assa,  and Ramen, and Tano, and Iluthoth, and Maeani,  and Jermuth, and Odollam, and Membra, and Saocho, and Jazeca.  And Sacarim and Gadera, and its villages; fourteen cities, and their villages;  Senna, and Adasan, and Magadalgad,  and Dalad, and Maspha, and Jachareel,  and Basedoth, and Ideadalea;  and Chabra, and Maches, and Maachos,  and Geddor, and Bagadiel, and Noman, and Machedan: sixteen cities, and their villages;  Lebna, and Ithac, and Anoch,  and Jana, and Nasib,  and Keilam, and Akiezi, and Kezib, and Bathesar, and Ælom: ten cities, and their villages;  Accaron and her villages, and their hamlets:  from Accaron, Gemna, and all the cities that are near Asedoth; and their villages.  Asiedoth, and her villages, and her hamlets; Gaza, and its villages and its hamlets as far as the river of Egypt, and the great sea is the boundary.  And in the hill country Samir, and Jether, and Socha,  and Renna and the city of Letters, this is Dabir;  and Anon, and Es, and Man, and Æsam,  and Gosom, and Chalu, and Channa, and Gelom: eleven cities, and their villages;  Ærem, and Remna, and Soma,  and Jemain, and Baethachu, and Phacua,  and Euma, and the city Arboc, this is Chebron, and Soraith: nine cities and their villages:  Maor, and Chermel, and Ozib, and Itan,  and Jariel, and Aricam, and Zacanaim,  and Gabaa, and Thamnatha; nine cities, and their villages;  Ælua, and Bethsur, and Geddon,  and Magaroth, and Baethanam, and Thecum; six cities, and their villages; Theco, and Ephratha, this is Baethleem, and Phagor, and Ætan, and Culon, and Tatam, and Thobes, and Carem, and Galem, and Thether, and Manocho: eleven cities, and their villages,  Cariathbaal, this is the city of Jarim, and Sotheba: two cities, and their villages:  and Baddargeis, and Tharabaam, and Ænon;  and Æochioza, and Naphlazon, and the cities of Sadon, and Ancades; seven cities, and their villages.  And the Jebusite dwelt in Jerusalem, and the children of Juda could not destroy them; and the Jebusites dwelt in Jerusalem to this day. And the borders of the children of Joseph were from Jordan by Jericho eastward; and they will go up from Jericho to the hill country, to the wilderness, to Baethel Luza.  And they will go out to Baethel, and will proceed to the borders of Achatarothi.  And they will go across to the sea to the borders of Aptalim, as far as the borders of Baethoron the lower, and the going forth of them shall be to the sea.  And the sons of Joseph, Ephraim and Manasse, took their inheritance. And the borders of the children of Ephraim were according to their families, and the borders of their inheritance were eastward to Ataroth, and Eroc as far as Baethoron the upper, and Gazara.  And the borders will proceed to the sea to Icasmon north of Therma; they will go round eastward to Thenasa, and Selles, and will pass on eastward to Janoca,  and to Macho, and Ataroth, and these are their villages; and they will come to Jericho, and will issue at Jordan.  And the borders will proceed from Tapho to the sea to Chelcana; and their termination will be at the sea; this is the inheritance of the tribe of Ephraim according to their families.  And the cities separated to the sons of Ephraim were in the midst of the inheritance of the sons of Manasse, all the cities and their villages.  And Ephraim did not destroy the Chananite who dwelt in Gazer; and the Chananite dwelt in Ephraim until this day, until Pharao the king of Egypt went up and took it, and burnt it with fire; and the Chananites, and Pherezites, and the dwellers in Gaza they destroyed, and Pharao gave them for a dowry to his daughter. And the borders of the tribe of the children of Manasse, (for he was the first-born of Joseph,) assigned to Machir the first-born of Manasse the father of Galaad, for he was a warrior, were in the land of Galaad and of Basan.  And there was land assigned to the other sons of Manasse according to their families; to the sons of Jezi, and to the sons of Kelez, and to the sons of Jeziel, and to the sons of Sychem, and to the sons of Symarim, and to the sons of Opher: these are the males according to their families.  And Salpaad the sons of Opher had no sons but daughters: and these are the names of the daughters of Salpaad; Maala, and Nua, and Egla, and Melcha, and Thersa.  And they stood before Eleazar the priest, and before Joshua, and before the rulers, saying, God gave a charge by the hand of Moses, to give us an inheritance in the midst of our brethren: so there was given to them by the command of the Lord an inheritance among the brethren of their father.  And their lot fell to them from Anassa, and to the plain of Labec of the land of Galaad, which is beyond Jordan.  For the daughters of the sons of Manasse inherited a portion in the midst of their brethren, and the land of Galaad was assigned to the remainder of the sons of Manasse. And the borders of the sons of Manasse were Delanath, which is before the sons of Anath, and it proceeds to the borders even to Jamin and Jassib to the fountain of Thaphthoth.  It shall belong to Manasse, and Thapheth on the borders of Manasse shall belong to the sons of Ephraim.  And the borders shall go down to the valley of Carana southward by the valley of Jariel, (there is a turpentine tree belonging to Ephraim between that and the city of Manasse:) and the borders of Manasse are northward to the brook; and the sea shall be its termination.  Southward the land belongs to Ephraim, and northward to Manasse; and the sea shall be their cost; and northward they shall border upon Aseb, and eastward upon Issachar.  And Manasses shall have in the portion of Issachar and Aser Baethsan and their villages, and the inhabitants of Dor, and its villages, and the inhabitants of Mageddo, and its villages, and the third part of Mapheta, and its villages.  And the sons of Manasse were not able to destroy these cities; and the Chananite began to dwell in that land.  And it came to pass that when the children of Israel were strong, they made the Chananites subject, but they did not utterly destroy them. And the sons of Joseph answered Joshua, saying, Wherefore hast thou caused us to inherit one inheritance, and one line? whereas I am a great people, and God has blessed me.  And Joshua said to them, If thou be a great people, go up to the forest, and clear the land for thyself, If mount Ephraim be too little for thee.  And they said, The mount of Ephraim does not please us, and the Chananite dwelling in it in Baethsan, and in its villages, and in the valley of Jezrael, has choice cavalry and iron.  And Joshua said to the sons of Joseph, If thou art a great people, and hast great strength, thou shalt not have only one inheritance.  For thou shalt have the wood, for there is a wood, and thou shalt clear it, and the land shall be thine; even when thou shalt have utterly destroyed the Chananite, for he has chosen cavalry; yet thou art stronger than he. And all the congregation of the children of Israel were assembled at Selo, and there they pitched the tabernacle of witness; and the land was subdued by them. And the sons of Israel remained, even those who had not received their inheritance, seven tribes.  And Joshua said to the sons of Israel, How long will ye be slack to inherit the land, which the Lord our God has given you?  Appoint of yourselves three men of each tribe, and let them rise up and go through the land, and let them describe it before me, as it will be proper to divide it.  And they came to him: and he divided to them seven portions, saying, Juda shall stand to them a border southward, and the sons of Joseph shall stand to them northward.  And do ye divide the land into seven parts, and bring the description hither to me, and I will give you a lot before the Lord our God.  For the sons of Levi have no part among you; for the priesthood of the Lord is his portion; and Gad, and Ruben, and the half tribe of Manasse, have received their inheritance beyond Jordan eastward, which Moses the servant of the Lord gave to them.  And the men rose up and went; and Joshua charged the men who went to explore the land, saying, Go and explore the land, and come to me, and I will bring you forth a lot here before the Lord in Selo.  And they went, and explored the land: and they viewed it, and described it according to the cities, seven parts in a book, and brought the book to Joshua.  And Joshua cast the lot for them in Selo before the Lord. And the lot of the tribe of Benjamin came forth first according to their families: and the borders of their lot came forth between the children of Juda and the children of Joseph.  And their borders were northward: the borders shall go up from Jordan behind Jericho northward, and shall go up to the mountain westward, and the issue of it shall be Baethon of Mabdara.  And the borders will go forth thence to Luz, behind Luz, from the south of it; this is Baethel: and the borders shall go down to Maatarob Orech, to the hill country, which is southward of Baethoron the lower.  And the borders shall pass through and proceed to the part that looks toward the sea, on the south, from the mountain in front of Baethoron southward, and its termination shall be at Cariath-Baal, this is Cariath-Jarin, a city of the children of Juda; this is the part toward the west.  And the south side on the part of Cariath-Baal; and the borders shall go across to Gasin, to the fountain of the water of Naphtho.  And the borders shall extend down on one side, this is in front of the forest of Sonnam, which is on the side of Emec Raphain northward, and it shall come down to Gaeenna behind Jebusai southward: it shall come down to the fountain of Rogel.  And the borders shall go across to the fountain of Baethsamys:  and shall proceed to Galiloth, which is in front by the going up of Æthamin; and they shall come down to the stone of Baeon of the sons of Ruben; and shall pass over behind Baetharaba northward, and shall go down to the borders behind the sea northward.  And the termination of the borders shall be at the creek of the salt sea northward to the side of Jordan southward: these are their southern borders.  And Jordan shall be their boundary on the east: this is the inheritance of the children of Benjamin, these are their borders round about according to their families.  And the cities of the children of Benjamin according to their families were Jericho, and Bethagaeo, and the Amecasis,  and Baethabara, and Sara, and Besana,  and Æein, and Phara, and Ephratha,  and Carapha, and Cephira, and Moni, and Gabaa, twelve cities and their villages:  Gabaon, and Rama, and Beerotha;  and Massema, and Miron, and Amoke;  and Phira, and Caphan, and Nacan, and Selecan, and Thareela,  and Jebus (this is Jerusalem); and Gabaoth, Jarim, thirteen cities, and their villages; this is the inheritance of the sons of Benjamin according to their families. And the second lot came out for the children of Symeon; and their inheritance was in the midst of the lots of the children of Juda.  And their lot was Beersabee, and Samaa, and Caladam,  and Arsola, and Bola, and Jason,  and Erthula, and Bula, and Herma,  and Sikelac, and Baethmachereb, and Sarsusin,  and Batharoth, and their fields, thirteen cities, and their villages.  Eremmon, and Thalcha, and Jether, and Asan; four cities and their villages,  round about their cities as far as Balec as men go to Bameth southward: this is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Symeon according to their families.  The inheritance of the tribe of the children of Symeon was a part of the lot of Juda, for the portion of the children of Juda was greater than theirs; and the children of Symeon inherited in the midst of their lot. And the third lot came out to Zabulon according to their families: the bounds of their inheritance shall be—Esedekgola shall be their border,  the sea and Magelda, and it shall reach to Baetharaba in the valley, which is opposite Jekman.  And the border returned from Sedduc in a contrary direction eastward from Baethsamys, to the borders of Chaselothaith, and shall pass on to Dabiroth, and shall proceed upward to Phangai.  And thence it shall come round in the opposite direction eastward to Gebere to the city of Catasem, and shall go on to Remmonaa Matharaoza.  And the borders shall come round northward to Amoth, and their going out shall be at Gaephael,  and Catanath, and Nabaal, and Symoon, and Jericho, and Baethman.  This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Zabulon according to their families, these cities and their villages. And the fourth lot came out to Issachar.  And their borders were Jazel, and Chasaloth, and Sunam,  and Agin, and Siona, and Reeroth,  and Anachereth, and Dabiron, and Kison, and Rebes,  and Remmas, and Jeon, and Tomman, and Æmarec, and Bersaphes.  And the boundaries shall border upon Gaethbor, and upon Salim westward, and Baethsamys; and the extremity of his bounds shall be Jordan.  This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Issachar according to their families, the cities and their villages. And the fifth lot came out to Aser according to their families.  And their borders were Exeleketh, and Aleph, and Baethok, and Keaph,  and Elimelech, and Amiel, and Maasa, and the lot will border on Carmel westward, and on Sion, and Labanath.  And it will return westward from Baethegeneth, and will join Zabulon and Ekgai, and Phthaeel northwards, and the borders will come to Saphthaebaethme, and Inael, and will go on to Chobamasomel,  and Elbon, and Raab, and Ememaon, and Canthan to great Sidon.  And the borders shall turn back to Rama, and to the fountain of Masphassat, and the Tyrians; and the borders shall return to Jasiph, and their going forth shall be the sea, and Apoleb, and Echozob,  and Archob, and Aphec, and Raau.  This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Aser according to their families, the cities and their villages. And the sixth lot came out to Nephthali.  And their borders were Moolam, and Mola, and Besemiin, and Arme, and Naboc, and Jephthamai, as far as Dodam; and their goings out were Jordan.  And the coasts will return westward by Athabor, and will go out thence to Jacana, and will border on Zabulon southward, and Aser will join it westward, and Jordan eastward.  And the walled cities of the Tyrians, Tyre, and Omathadaketh, and Kenereth,  and Armaith, and Areal, and Asor,  and Cades, and Assari, and the well of Asor;  and Keroe, and Megalaarim, and Baetthame, and Thessamys.  This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Nephthali. And the seventh lot came out to Dan.  And their borders were Sarath, and Asa, and the cities of Sammaus,  and Salamin, and Ammon, and Silatha,  and Elon, and Thamnatha, and Accaron;  and Alcatha, and Begethon, and Gebeelan,  and Azor, and Banaebacat, and Gethremmon.  And westward of Hieracon the border was near to Joppa.   This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Dan, according to their families, these are their cities and their villages: and the children of Dan did not drive out the Amorite who afflicted them in the mountain; and the Amorite would not suffer them to come down into the valley, but they forcibly took from them the border of their portion. And they proceeded to take possession of the land according to their borders, and the children of Israel gave an inheritance to Joshua the son of Naue among them,  by the command of God, and they gave him the city which he asked for, Thamnasarach, which is in the mount of Ephraim; and he built the city, and dwelt in it.  These are the divisions which Eleazar the priest divided by lot, and Joshua the son of Naue, and the heads of families among the tribes of Israel, according to the lots, in Selo before the Lord by the doors of the tabernacle of testimony, and they went to take possession of the land. And the Lord spoke to Joshua, saying,  Speak to the children of Israel, saying, Assign the cities of refuge, of which I spoke to you by Moses.  Even a refuge to the slayer who has smitten a man unintentionally; and the cities shall be to you a refuge, and the slayer shall not be put to death by the avenger of blood, until he have stood before the congregation for judgment.   And Joshua separated Cades in Galilee in the mount Nephthali, and Sychem in the mount Ephraim, and the city of Arboc; this is Chebron, in the mountain of Juda.  And beyond Jordan he appointed Bosor in the wilderness in the plain out of the tribe of Ruben, and Aremoth in Galaad out of the tribe of Gad, and Gaulon in the country of Basan out of the tribe of Manasse.   These were the cities selected for the sons of Israel, and for the stranger abiding among them, that every one who smites a soul unintentionally should flee thither, that he should not die by the hand of the avenger of blood, until he should stand before the congregation for judgment. And the heads of the families of the sons of Levi drew near to Eleazar the priest, and to Joshua the son of Naue, and to the heads of families of the tribes of Israel.  And they spoke to them in Selo in the land of Chanaan, saying, The Lord gave commandment by Moses to give us cities to dwell in, and the country round about for our cattle.  So the children of Israel gave to the Levites in their inheritance by the command of the Lord the cities and the country round.  And the lot came out for the children of Caath; and the sons of Aaron, the priests the Levites, had by lot thirteen cities out of the tribe of Juda, and out of the tribe of Symeon, and out of the tribe of Benjamin.  And to the sons of Caath that were left were given by lot ten cities, out of the tribe of Ephraim, and out of the tribe of Dan, and out of the half tribe of Manasse.  And the sons of Gedson had thirteen cities, out of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Aser, and out of the tribe of Nephthali, and out of the half tribe of Manasse in Basan.  And the sons of Merari according to their families had by lot twelve cities, out of the tribe of Ruben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zabulon.  And the children of Israel gave to the Levites the cities and their suburbs, as the Lord commanded Moses, by lot. And the tribe of the children of Juda, and the tribe of the children of Symeon, and part of the tribe of the children of Benjamin gave these cities, and they were assigned  to the sons of Aaron of the family of Caath of the sons of Levi, for the lot fell to these.  And they gave to them Cariatharboc the metropolis of the sons of Enac; this is Chebron in the mountain country of Juda, and the suburbs round it.  But the lands of the city, and its villages Joshua gave to the sons of Chaleb the son of Jephonne for a possession.  And to the sons of Aaron he gave the city of refuge for the slayer, Chebron, and the suburbs belonging to it; and Lemna and the suburbs belonging to it;  and Ælom and its suburbs; and Tema and its suburbs;  and Gella and its suburbs; and Dabir and its suburbs;  and Asa and its suburbs; and Tany and its suburbs; and Baethsamys and its suburbs: nine cities from these two tribes.  And from the tribe of Benjamin, Gabaon and its suburbs; and Gatheth and its suburbs;  and Anathoth and its suburbs; and Gamala and its suburbs; four cities.  All the cities of the sons of Aaron the priests, thirteen.  And to the families, even the sons of Caath the Levites, that were left of the sons of Caath, there was given their priests’ city,  out of the tribe of Ephraim; and they gave them the slayer’s city of refuge, Sychem, and its suburbs, and Gazara and its appendages, and its suburbs;  and Baethoron and its suburbs: four cities:  and the tribe of Dan, Helcothaim and its suburbs; and Gethedan and its suburbs:  and Ælon and its suburbs; and Getheremmon and its suburbs: four cities.  And out of the half tribe of Manasse, Tanach and its suburbs; and Jebatha and its suburbs; two cities.  In all were given ten cities, and the suburbs of each belonging to them, to the families of the sons of Caath that remained.  And Joshua gave to the sons of Gedson the Levites out of the other half tribe of Manasse cities set apart for the slayers, Gaulon in the country of Basan, and its suburbs; and Bosora and its suburbs; two cities.  And out of the tribe of Issachar, Kison and its suburbs; and Debba and its suburbs;  and Remmath and its suburbs; and the well of Letters, and its suburbs; four cities.  And out of the tribe of Aser, Basella and its suburbs; and Dabbon and its suburbs;  and Chelcat and its suburbs; and Raab and its suburbs; four cities.  And of the tribe of Nephthali, the city set apart for the slayer, Cades in Galilee, and its suburbs; and Nemmath, and its suburbs; and Themmon and its suburbs; three cities.  All the cities of Gedson according to their families were thirteen cities.  And to the family of the sons of Merari the Levites that remained, he gave out of the tribe of Zabulon, Maan and its suburbs; and Cades and its suburbs,  and Sella and its suburbs: three cities.  And beyond Jordan over against Jericho, out of the tribe of Ruben, the city of refuge for the slayer, Bosor in the wilderness; Miso and its suburbs; and Jazer and its suburbs; and Decmon and its suburbs; and Mapha and its suburbs; four cities.   And out of the tribe of Gad the city of refuge for the slayer, both Ramoth in Galaad, and its suburbs; Camin and its suburbs; and Esbon and its suburbs; and Jazer and its suburbs: the cities were four in all.   All these cities were given to the sons of Merari according to the families of them that were left out of the tribe of Levi; and their limits were the twelve cities.   All the cities of the Levites in the midst of the possession of the children of Israel, were forty-eight cities,   and their suburbs round about these cities: a city and the suburbs round about the city to all these cities: and Joshua ceased dividing the land by their borders: and the children of Israel gave a portion to Joshua because of the commandment of the Lord: they gave him the city which he asked: they gave him Thamnasachar in mount Ephraim; and Joshua built the city, and dwelt in it: and Joshua took the knives of stone, wherewith he circumcised the children of Israel that were born in the desert by the way, and put them in Thamnasachar.  So the Lord gave to Israel all the land which he sware to give to their fathers: and they inherited it, and dwelt in it.   And the Lord gave them rest round about, as he sware to their fathers: not one of all their enemies maintained his ground against them; the Lord delivered all their enemies into their hands.   There failed not one of the good things which the Lord spoke to the children of Israel; all came to pass. Then Joshua called together the sons of Ruben, and the sons of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasse,  and said to them, Ye have heard all that Moses the servant of the Lord commanded you, and ye have hearkened to my voice in all that he commanded you.  Ye have not deserted your brethren these many days: until this day ye have kept the commandment of the Lord your God.  And now the Lord our God has given our brethren rest, as he told them: now then return and depart to your homes, and to the land of your possession, which Moses gave you on the other side Jordan.  But take great heed to do the commands and the law, which Moses the servant of the Lord commanded you to do; to love the Lord our God, to walk in all his ways, to keep his commands, and to cleave to him, and serve him with all your mind, and with all your soul.  And Joshua blessed them, and dismissed them; and they went to their homes.  And to one half the tribe of Manasse Moses gave a portion in the land of Basan, and to the other half Joshua gave a portion with his brethren on the other side of Jordan westward: and when Joshua sent them away to their homes, then he blessed them.  And they departed with much wealth to their houses, and they divided the spoil of their enemies with their brethren; very much cattle, and silver, and gold, and iron, and much raiment.  So the sons of Ruben, and the sons of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasse, departed from the children of Israel in Selo in the land of Chanaan, to go away into Galaad, into the land of their possession, which they inherited by the command of the Lord, by the hand of Moses. And they came to Galaad of Jordan, which is in the land of Chanaan: and the children of Ruben, and the children of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasse built there an alter by Jordan, a great altar to look at.  And the children of Israel heard say, Behold, the sons of Ruben, and the sons of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasse have built an alter at the borders of the land of Chanaan at Galaad of Jordan, on the opposite side to the children of Israel.  And all the children of Israel gathered together to Selo, so as to go up and fight against them.  And the children of Israel sent to the sons of Ruben, and the sons of Gad, and to the sons of the half tribe of Manasse into the land of Galaad, both Phinees the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest,  and ten of the chiefs with him; there was one chief of every household out of all the tribes of Israel; (the heads of families are the captains of thousands in Israel.)  And they came to the sons of Ruben, and to the sons of Gad, and to the half tribe of Manasse into the land of Galaad; and they spoke to them, saying,  Thus says the whole congregation of the Lord, What is this transgression that ye have transgressed before the God of Israel, to turn away today from the Lord, in that ye have built for yourselves an alter, so that ye should be apostates from the Lord?  Is the sin of Phogor too little for you, whereas we have not been cleansed from it until this day, though there was a plague among the congregation of the Lord?  And ye have this day revolted from the Lord; and it shall come to pass if ye revolt this day from the Lord, that to-morrow there shall be wrath upon all Israel.  And now if the land of your possession be too little, cross over to the land of the possession of the Lord, where the tabernacle of the Lord dwells, and receive ye an inheritance among us; and do not become apostates from God, neither do ye apostatize from the Lord, because of your having built an altar apart from the altar of the Lord our God.  Lo! did not Achar the son of Zara commit a trespass taking of the accursed thing, and there was wrath on the whole congregation of Israel? and he himself died alone in his own sin. And the sons of Ruben, and the sons of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasse answered, and spoke to the captains of the thousands of Israel, saying,  God even God is the Lord, and God even God himself knows, and Israel he shall know; if we have transgressed before the Lord by apostasy, let him not deliver us this day.  And if we have built to ourselves an altar, so as to apostatize from the Lord our God, so as to offer upon it a sacrifice of whole-burnt-offerings, so as to offer upon it a sacrifice of peace-offering, —the Lord shall require it.  But we have done this for the sake of precaution concerning this thing, saying, Lest hereafter your sons should say to our sons, What have ye to do with the Lord God of Israel?  Whereas the Lord has set boundaries between us and you, even Jordan, and ye have no portion in the Lord: so your sons shall alienate our sons, that they should not worship the Lord.  And we gave orders to do thus, to build this altar, not for burnt-offerings, nor for meat-offerings;  but that this may be a witness between you and us, and between our posterity after us, that we may do service to the Lord before him, with our burnt-offerings and our meat-offerings and our peace-offerings: so your sons shall not say to our sons, hereafter, Ye have no portion in the Lord.  And we said, If ever it should come to pass that they should speak so to us, or to our posterity hereafter; then shall they say, Behold the likeness of the altar of the Lord, which our fathers made, not for the sake of burnt-offerings, nor for the sake of meat-offerings, but it is a witness between you and us, and between our sons.  Far be it from us therefore that we should turn away from the Lord this day so as to apostatize from the Lord, so as that we should build an altar for burnt-offerings, and for peace-offerings, besides the altar of the Lord which is before his tabernacle. And Phinees the priest and all the chiefs of the congregation of Israel who were with him heard the words which the children of Ruben, and the children of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasse spoke; and it pleased them.  And Phinees the priest said to the sons of Ruben, and to the sons of Gad, and to the half of the tribe of Manasse, To-day we know that the Lord is with us, because ye have not trespassed grievously against the Lord, and because ye have delivered the children of Israel out of the hand of the Lord.  So Phinees the priest and the princes departed from the children of Ruben, and from the children of Gad, and from the half tribe of Manasse out of Galaad into the land of Chanaan to the children of Israel; and reported the words to them.  And it pleased the children of Israel; and they spoke to the children of Israel, and blessed the God of the children of Israel, and told them to go up no more to war against the others to destroy the land of the children of Ruben, and the children of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasse: so they dwelt upon it.  And Joshua gave a name to the altar of the children of Ruben, and the children of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasse; and said, It is a testimony in the midst of them, that the Lord is their God. And it came to pass after many days after the Lord had given Israel rest from all his enemies round about, that Joshua was old and advanced in years.  And Joshua called together all the children of Israel, and their elders, and their chiefs, and their judges, and their officers; and said to them, I am old and advanced in years.  And ye have seen all that the Lord our God has done to all these nations before us; for it is the Lord your God who has fought for you.  See, that I have given to you these nations that are left to you by lots to your tribes, all the nations beginning at Jordan; and some I have destroyed; and the boundaries shall be at the great sea westward.  And the Lord our God, he shall destroy them before us, until they utterly perish; and he shall send against them the wild beasts, until he shall have utterly destroyed them and their kings from before you; and ye shall inherit their land, as the Lord our God said to you.  Do ye therefore strive diligently to observe and do all things written in the book of the law of Moses, that ye turn not to the right hand or to the left;  that ye go not in among these nations that are left; and the names of their gods shall not be named among you, neither shall ye serve them, neither shall ye bow down to them.  But ye shall cleave to the Lord our God, as ye have done until this day.  And the Lord shall destroy them before you, even great and strong nations; and no one has stood before us until this day.  One of you has chased a thousand, for the Lord our God, he fought for you, as he said to us. And take ye great heed to love the Lord our God.  For if ye shall turn aside and attach yourselves to these nations that are left with you, and make marriages with them, and become mingled with them and they with you,  know that the Lord will no more destroy these nations from before you; and they will be to you snares and stumbling-blocks, and nails in your heels, and darts in your eyes, until ye be destroyed from off this good land, which the Lord your God has given you.  But I hasten to go the way of death, as all that are upon the earth also do: and ye know in your heart and in your soul, that not one word has fallen to the ground of all the words which the Lord our God has spoken respecting all that concerns us; there has not one of them failed.  And it shall come to pass, that as all the good things are come upon us which the Lord God will bring upon you all the evil things, until he shall have destroyed you from off this good land, which the Lord has given you,  when ye transgress the covenant of the Lord our God, which he has charged us, and go and serve other gods, and bow down to them. And Joshua gathered all the tribe of Israel to Selo, and convoked their elders, and their officers, and their judges, and set them before God.  And Joshua said to all the people, Thus says the Lord God of Israel, Your fathers at first sojourned beyond the river, even Thara, the father of Abraam and the father of Nachor; and they served other gods.  And I took your father Abraam from the other side of the river, and I guided him through all the land, and I multiplied his seed;  and I gave to him Isaac, and to Isaac Jacob and Esau: and I gave to Esau mount Seir for him to inherit: and Jacob and his sons went down to Egypt, and became there a great and populous and mighty nation: and the Egyptians afflicted them.  And I smote Egypt with the wonders that I wrought among them.  And afterwards God brought out our fathers from Egypt, and ye entered into the Red Sea; and the Egyptians pursued after our fathers with chariots and horses into the Red Sea.  And we cried aloud to the Lord; and he put a cloud and darkness between us and the Egyptians, and he brought the sea upon them, and covered them; and your eyes have seen all that the Lord did in the land of Egypt; and ye were in the wilderness many days.  And he brought us into the land of the Amorites that dwelt beyond Jordan, and the Lord delivered them into our hands; and ye inherited their land, and utterly destroyed them from before you.  And Balac, king of Moab, son of Sepphor, rose up, and made war against Israel, and sent and called Balaam to curse us.  But the Lord thy God would not destroy thee; and he greatly blessed us, and rescued us out of their hands, and delivered them to us.  And ye crossed over Jordan, and came to Jericho; and the inhabitants of Jericho fought against us, the Amorite, and the Chananite, and the Pherezite, and the Evite, and the Jebusite, and the Chettite, and the Gergesite, and the Lord delivered them into our hands.  And he sent forth the hornet before you; and he drove them out from before you, even twelve kings of the Amorites, not with thy sword, nor with thy bow.  And he gave you a land on which ye did not labour, and cities which ye did not build, and ye were settled in them; and ye eat of vineyards and oliveyards which ye did not plant.  And now fear the Lord, and serve him in righteousness and justice; and remove the strange gods, which our fathers served beyond the river, and in Egypt; and serve the Lord.  But if it seem not good to you to serve the Lord, choose to yourselves this day whom ye will serve, whether the gods of your fathers that were on the other side of the river, or the gods of the Amorites, among whom ye dwell upon their land: but I and my house will serve the Lord, for he is holy.  And the people answered and said, Far be it from us to forsake the Lord, so as to serve other gods.  The Lord our God, he is God; he brought up us and our fathers from Egypt, and kept us in all the way wherein we walked, and among all the nations through whom we passed.  And the Lord cast out the Amorite, and all the nations that inhabited the land from before us: yea, we will serve the Lord, for he is our God.  And Joshua said to the people, Indeed ye will not be able to serve the Lord, for God is holy; and he being jealous will not forgive your sins and your transgressions.  Whensoever ye shall forsake the Lord and serve other gods, then he shall come upon you and afflict you, and consume you, because he has done you good.  And the people said to Joshua, Nay, but we will serve the Lord.  And Joshua said to the people, Ye are witnesses against yourselves, that ye have chosen the Lord to serve him.  And now take away the strange gods that are among you, and set your heart right toward the Lord God of Israel.  And the people said to Joshua, We will serve the Lord, and we will hearken to his voice.  So Joshua made a covenant with the people on that day, and gave them a law and an ordinance in Selo before the tabernacle of the God of Israel.  And he wrote these words in the book of the laws of God: and Joshua took a great stone, and set it up under the oak before the Lord.  And Joshua said to the people, Behold, this stone shall be among you for a witness, for it has heard all the words that have been spoken to it by the Lord; for he has spoken to you this day; and this stone shall be among you for a witness in the last days, whenever ye shall deal falsely with the Lord my God.  And Joshua dismissed the people, and they went every man to his place. And it came to pass after these things that Joshua the son of Naue the servant of the Lord died, at the age of a hundred and ten years.  And they buried him by the borders of his inheritance in Thamnasarach in the mount of Ephraim, northward of the mount of Galaad: there they put with him into the tomb in which they buried him, the knives of stone with which he circumcised the children of Israel in Galgala, when he brought them out of Egypt, as the Lord appointed them; and there they are to this day.  And Israel served the Lord all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that lived as long as Joshua, and all that knew all the works of the Lord which he wrought for Israel.  And the children of Israel brought up the bones of Joseph out of Egypt, and buried them in Sicima, in the portion of the land which Jacob bought of the Amorites who dwelt in Sicima for a hundred ewe-lambs; and he gave it to Joseph for a portion.  And it came to pass afterwards that Eleazar the high-priest the son of Aaron died, and was buried in Gabaar of Phinees his son, which he gave him in mount Ephraim.  In that day the children of Israel took the ark of God, and carried it about among them; and Phinees exercised the priest’s office in the room of Eleazar his father till he died, and he was buried in his own place Gabaar: but the children of Israel departed every one to their place, and to their own city: and the children of Israel worshipped Astarte, and Astaroth, and the gods of the nations round about them; and the Lord delivered them into the hands of Eglom king of Moab and he ruled over them eighteen years.