And the word of the Lord came to 
Michaeas the son of Morasthi, in the days of Joatham, and Achaz, and Ezekias, 
kings of Juda, concerning what he saw regarding Samaria and Jerusalem.  Hear these words, ye people; 
and let the earth give heed, and all that are in it: and the Lord God shall be 
among you for a testimony, the Lord out of his holy habitation.  For, behold, the Lord comes forth out of 
his place, and will come down, and will go upon the high places of the earth.
 And the mountains shall be shaken 
under him, and the valleys shall melt like wax before the fire, and as water 
rushing down a declivity.  All these calamities are for 
the transgression of Jacob, and for the sin of the house of Israel. What is the 
transgression of Jacob? is it not Samaria? and what is the sin of the 
house of Juda? is it not Jerusalem?  Therefore I will make Samaria as a store-house of the 
fruits of the field, and as a planting of a vineyard: and I will utterly 
demolish her stones, and I will expose her foundations.  And they shall cut in pieces all the graven images, and 
all that she has hired they shall burn with fire, and I will utterly destroy all 
her idols: because she has gathered of the hires of fornication, and of the 
hires of fornication has she amassed wealth. Therefore shall she lament and wail, 
she shall go barefooted, and being naked she shall make lamentation as 
that of serpents, and mourning as of the daughters of sirens.  For her plague has become grievous; for 
it has come even to Juda; and has reached to the gate of my people, even to 
Jerusalem.  Ye that are in Geth, exalt not 
yourselves, and ye Enakim, do not rebuild from the ruins of the house in 
derision: sprinkle dust in the place of your laughter.  The inhabitant of Sennaar, fairly 
inhabiting her cities, came not forth to mourn for the house next to her: she 
shall receive of you the stroke of grief.  Who has begun to act for good 
to her that dwells in sorrow? for calamities have come down from the Lord upon 
the gates of Jerusalem,  even 
a sound of chariots and horsemen: the inhabitants of Lachis, she is the leader 
of sin to the daughter of Sion: for in thee were found the transgressions of 
Israel.  Therefore shall he cause 
men to be sent forth as far as the inheritance of Geth, even vain houses; 
they are become vanity to the kings of Israel;  until they bring the heirs, O inhabitant of Lachis: the 
inheritance shall reach to Odollam, even the glory of the daughter of 
Israel.  Shave thine hair, and 
make thyself bald for thy delicate children; increase thy widowhood as an eagle; 
for thy people are gone into captivity from thee. They meditated troubles, and wrought 
wickedness on their beds, and they put it in execution with the daylight; for 
they have not lifted up their hands to God.  And they desired fields, and plundered orphans, and oppressed 
families, and spoiled a man and his house, even a man and his inheritance.
 Therefore thus saith the Lord; Behold, 
I devise evils against this family, out of which ye shall not lift up your 
necks, neither shall ye walk upright speedily: for the time is evil.  In that day shall a parable be taken 
up against you, and a plaintive lamentation shall be uttered, saying, We are 
thoroughly miserable: the portion of my people has been measured out with a 
line, and there was none to hinder him so as to turn him back; your fields have 
been divided.  Therefore thou shalt 
have no one to cast a line for the lot.  Weep not with tears in the assembly of the Lord, neither let 
any weep for these things; for he shall not remove the reproaches,  who says, The house of Jacob has provoked 
the Spirit of the Lord; are not these his practices? Are not the Lord’s words 
right with him? and have they not proceeded correctly?  Even beforetime my people withstood him as an enemy 
against his peace; they have stripped off his skin to remove hope in the 
conflict of war.  The leaders of my 
people shall be cast forth from their luxurious houses; they are rejected 
because of their evil practices; draw ye near to the everlasting mountains.
 Arise thou, and depart; for this is 
not thy rest because of uncleanness: ye have been utterly destroyed;  ye have fled, no one pursuing you: 
thy spirit has framed falsehood, it has dropped on thee for wine and strong 
drink. But it shall come to pass, that out of the dropping of this 
people,  Jacob shall be completely 
gathered with all his people: I will surely receive the remnant of 
Israel; I will cause them to return together, as sheep in trouble, as a flock in 
the midst of their fold: they shall rush forth from among men through the breach 
made before them:  they have 
broken through, and passed the gate, and gone out by it: and their king has gone 
out before them, and the Lord shall lead them. And he shall say, Hear now these 
words, ye heads of the house of Jacob, and ye remnant of the house of Israel; is 
it not for you to know judgment?  
who hate good, and seek evil; who tear their skins off them, and 
their flesh off their bones:  even 
as they devoured the flesh of my people, and stripped their skins off them, and 
broke their bones, and divided them as flesh for the caldron, and as meat 
for the pot,  thus they shall cry 
to the Lord, but he shall not hearken to them; and he shall turn away his face 
from them at that time, because they have done wickedly in their practices 
against themselves.  Thus saith the Lord concerning the 
prophets that lead my people astray, that bit with their teeth, and proclaim 
peace to them; and when nothing was put into their mouth, they raised up 
war against them:  therefore there 
shall be night to you instead of a vision, and there shall be to you darkness 
instead of prophecy; and the sun shall go down upon the prophets, and the day 
shall be dark upon them.  And the 
seers of night-visions shall be ashamed, and the prophets shall be laughed to 
scorn: and all the people shall speak against them, because there shall be none 
to hearken to them.  Surely I will 
strengthen myself with the Spirit of the Lord, and of judgment, and of power, to 
declare to Jacob his transgressions, and to Israel his sins.  Hear now these words, ye chiefs of the 
house of Jacob, and the remnant of the house of Israel, who hate judgment, and 
pervert all righteousness;  who 
build up Sion with blood, and Jerusalem with iniquity.  The heads thereof have judged for gifts, and the priests 
thereof have answered for hire, and her prophets have divined for silver: and 
yet they have rested on the Lord, saying, Is not the Lord among us? no evil 
shall come upon us.  Therefore on 
your account Sion shall be ploughed as a field, and Jerusalem shall be as a 
storehouse of fruits, and the mountain of the house as a grove of the forest. And at the last days the mountain of 
the Lord shall be manifest, established on the tops of the mountains, and it 
shall be exalted above the hills; and the peoples shall hasten to it.  And many nations shall go, and say, Come, 
let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; 
and they shall shew us his way, and we will walk in his paths: for out of Sion 
shall go forth a law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.  And he shall judge among many peoples, 
and shall rebuke strong nations afar off; and they shall beat their swords into 
ploughshares, and their spears into sickles; and nation shall no more lift up 
sword against nation, neither shall they learn to war any more.  And every one shall rest under his vine, 
and every one under his fig-tree; and there shall be none to alarm them: 
for the mouth of the Lord Almighty has spoken these words.  For all other nations shall walk 
everyone in his own way, but we will walk in the name of the Lord our God for 
ever and ever.  In that day, saith the Lord, I will 
gather her that is bruised, and will receive her that is cast out, and those 
whom I rejected.  And I will make 
her that was bruised a remnant, and her that was rejected a mighty nation: and 
the Lord shall reign over them in mount Sion from henceforth, even for ever. And thou, dark tower of the flock, 
daughter of Sion, on thee the dominion shall come and enter in, even the 
first kingdom from Babylon to the daughter of Jerusalem.  And now, why hast thou known calamities? was there not a 
king to thee? or has thy counsel perished that pangs as of a woman in travail 
have seized upon thee?  Be in 
pain, and strengthen thyself, and draw near, O daughter of Sion, as a woman in 
travail: for now thou shalt go forth out of the city, and shalt lodge in the 
plain, and shalt reach even to Babylon: thence shall the Lord thy God deliver 
thee, and thence shall he redeem thee out of the hand of thine enemies.  And now have many nations gathered 
against thee, saying, We will rejoice, and our eyes shall look upon Sion.  But they know not the thought of the 
Lord, and have not understood his counsel: for he has gathered them as sheaves 
of the floor.  Arise, and thresh 
them, O daughter of Sion: for I will make thine horns iron, and I will make 
thine hoofs brass: and thou shalt utterly destroy many nations, and shalt 
consecrate their abundance to the Lord, and their strength to the Lord of all 
the earth. Now shall the daughter of Sion 
be completely hedged in: he has laid siege against us: they shall smite the 
tribes of Israel with a rod upon the cheek.  And thou, Bethleem, house of Ephratha, 
art few in number to be reckoned among the thousands of Juda; yet 
out of thee shall one come forth to me, to be a ruler of Israel; and his goings 
forth were from the beginning, even from eternity.  Therefore shall he appoint them to 
wait till the time of her that travails: she shall bring forth, and then 
the remnant of their brethren shall return to the children of Israel.  And the Lord shall stand, and see, and 
feed his flock with power, and they shall dwell in the glory of the name of the 
Lord their God: for now shall they be magnified to the ends of the earth.  And she shall have peace when Assur 
shall come into your land, and when he shall come up upon your country; and 
there shall be raised up against him seven shepherds, and eight attacks of men.
 And they shall tend the Assyrian 
with a sword, and the land of Nebrod with her trench: and he shall deliver 
you from the Assyrian, when he shall come upon your land, and when he shall 
invade your coasts. And the remnant of Jacob shall be 
among the Gentiles in the midst of many peoples, as dew falling from the Lord, 
and as lambs on the grass; that none may assemble nor resist among the sons of 
men.  And the remnant of Jacob 
shall be among the Gentiles in the midst of many nations, as a lion in the 
forest among cattle, and as a lion’s whelp among the flocks of sheep, 
even as when he goes through, and selects, and carries off his prey, and 
there is none to deliver.  Thine 
hand shall be lifted up against them that afflict thee, and all thine enemies 
shall be utterly destroyed.  And it shall come to pass in that 
day, saith the Lord, that I will utterly destroy the horses out of the 
midst of thee, and destroy thy chariots;  and I will utterly destroy the cities of thy land, and demolish 
all thy strong-holds:  and I will 
utterly destroy thy sorceries out of thine hands; and there shall be no 
soothsayers in thee.  And I will 
utterly destroy thy graven images, and thy statues out of the midst of thee; and 
thou shalt never any more worship the works of thine hands.  And I will cut off the groves out of the 
midst of thee, and I will abolish thy cities.  and I will execute vengeance on the heathen in anger and wrath, 
because they hearkened not. Hear now a word: the Lord God has 
said; Arise, plead with the mountains, and let the hills hear thy voice.  Hear ye, O mountains, the controversy 
of the Lord, and ye valleys even the foundations of the earth: for 
the Lord has a controversy with his people, and will plead with Israel.
 O my people, what have I done to 
thee? or wherein have I grieved thee? or wherein have I troubled thee? answer 
me.  For I brought tee up out of 
the land of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the house of bondage, and sent 
before thee Moses, and Aaron, and Mariam.  O my people, remember now, what 
counsel Balac king of Moab took against thee, and what Balaam the son of Beor 
answered him, from the reeds to Galgal; that the righteousness of the Lord might 
be known. Wherewithal shall I reach the Lord, 
and lay hold of my God most high? shall I reach him by 
whole-burnt-offerings, by calves of a year old?  Will the Lord accept thousands of rams, or ten thousands of fat 
goats? should I give my first-born for ungodliness, the fruit of my body for the 
sin of my soul?  Has it not 
been told thee, O man, what is good? or what does the Lord require of 
thee, but to do justice, and love mercy, and be ready to walk with the Lord thy 
God? The Lord’s voice shall be proclaimed 
in the city, and he shall save those that fear his name: hear, O tribe; and who 
shall order the city?  Is there 
not fire, and the house of the wicked heaping up wicked treasures, and that 
with the pride of unrighteousness?  Shall the wicked be justified by the balanced, or deceitful 
weights in the bag,  whereby they 
have accumulated their ungodly wealth, and they that dwell in the city have 
uttered falsehoods, and their tongue has been exalted in their mouth?  Therefore will I begin to smite thee; 
I will destroy thee in thy sins.  
Thou shalt eat, and shalt not be satisfied; and there shall be darkness upon 
thee; and he shall depart from thee, and thou shalt not escape; and all 
that shall escape shall be delivered over to the sword.  Thou shalt sow, but thou shalt not reap; thou shalt press 
the olive, but thou shalt not anoint thyself with oil; and shalt make 
wine, but ye shall drink no wine: and the ordinances of my people shall be 
utterly abolished.  For thou hast 
kept the statues of Zambri, and done all the works of the house of 
Achaab; and ye have walked in their ways, that I might deliver thee to utter 
destruction, and those that inhabit the city to hissing: and ye shall bear the 
reproach of nations. Alas for me! for I am become as one 
gathering straw in harvest, and as one gathering grape-gleanings in the 
vintage, when there is no cluster for me to eat the first-ripe fruit: alas my 
soul!  For the godly is perished 
from the earth; and there is none among men that orders his way aright: 
they all quarrel even to blood: they grievously afflict every one his neighbour:
 they prepare their hands for 
mischief, the prince asks a reward, and the judge speaks flattering 
words; it is the desire of their soul:  therefore I will take away their goods as a devouring moth, and 
as one who acts by a rigid rule in a day of visitation. Woe, woe, thy 
times of vengeance are come; now shall be their lamentations.  Trust not in friends, and confide not in 
guides: beware of thy wife, so as not to commit anything to her.  For the son dishonours his father, the 
daughter will rise up against her mother, the daughter-in-law against her 
mother-in-law: those in his house shall be all a man’s enemies. But I will look to the Lord; I will 
wait upon God my Saviour: my God will hearken to me.  Rejoice not against me, mine enemy; 
for I have fallen yet shall arise; for though I should sit in darkness, 
the Lord shall be a light to me.  I 
will bear the indignation of the Lord, because I have sinned against him, until 
he make good my cause: he also shall maintain my right, and shall bring me out 
to the light, and I shall behold his righteousness.  And she that is mine enemy shall see it, 
and shall clothe herself with shame, who says, Where is the Lord thy God? 
mine eyes shall look upon her: now shall she be for trampling as mire in the 
ways.  It is the day of making of 
brick; that day shall be thine utter destruction, and that day shall utterly 
abolish thine ordinances.  And thy 
cities shall be levelled, and parted among the Assyrians; and thy strong cities 
shall be parted from Tyre to the river, and from sea to sea, and from mountain 
to mountain.  And the land shall 
be utterly desolate together with them that inhabit it, because of the fruit of 
their doings. Tend thy people with thy rod, the 
sheep of thine inheritance, those that inhabit by themselves the thicket in the 
midst of Carmel: they shall feed in the land of Basan, and in the land of Galaad, 
as in the days of old.  And according to the days of thy 
departure out of Egypt shall ye see marvellous things.  The nations shall see and be ashamed; 
and at all their might they shall lay their hands upon their mouth, their ears 
shall be deafened.  They shall 
lick the dust as serpents crawling on the earth, they shall be confounded in 
their holes; they shall be amazed at the Lord our God, and will be afraid of 
thee.  Who is a God like thee, cancelling 
iniquities, and passing over the sins of the remnant of his inheritance? and he 
has not kept his anger for a testimony, for he delights in mercy.  He will return and have mercy upon us; 
he will sink our iniquities, and they shall be cast into the depth of the sea,
even all our sins.  He 
shall give blessings truly to Jacob, and mercy to Abraam, as thou swarest to our 
fathers, according to the former days.