 The vision of Obdias. Thus saith the 
Lord God to Idumea; I have heard a report from the Lord, and he has sent forth a 
message to the nations.  Arise ye, and let us rise up against 
her to war.  Behold, I have made 
thee small among the Gentiles: thou art greatly dishonoured. The pride of thine 
heart has elated thee, dwelling as thou dost in the holes of the rocks,
as one that exalts his habitation, saying in his heart, Who will bring me 
down to the ground?  If thou 
shouldest mount up as the eagle, and if thou shouldest make thy nest among the 
stars, thence will I bring thee down, saith the Lord.  If thieves came in to thee, or robbers by night, where 
wouldest thou have been cast away? would they not have stolen just enough 
for themselves? and if grape-gatherers went in to thee, would they not leave a 
gleaning?  How has Esau been searched out, and 
how have his hidden things been detected?  They sent thee to thy coasts: all the men of thy covenant have 
withstood thee; thine allies have prevailed against thee, they have set snares 
under thee: they have no understanding.  In that day, saith the Lord, I will 
destroy the wise men out of Idumea, and understanding out of the mount of Esau.
 And thy warriors from Thaeman 
shall be dismayed, to the end that man may be cut off from the mount of Esau.
 Because of the slaughter and the 
sin committed against thy brother Jacob, shame shall cover thee, and thou 
shalt be cut off for ever.  From 
the day that thou stoodest in opposition to him, in the days when 
foreigners were taking captive his forces, and strangers entered into his gates, 
and cast lots on Jerusalem, thou also wast as one of them.  And thou shouldest not have looked on 
the day of thy brother in the day of strangers; nor shouldest thou have rejoiced 
against the children of Juda in the day of their destruction; neither shouldest 
thou have boasted in the day of their affliction.  Neither shouldest thou have gone into the gates of the 
people in the day of their troubles; nor yet shouldest thou have looked upon 
their gathering in the day of their destruction, nor shouldest thou have 
attacked their host in the day of their perishing.  Neither shouldest thou have stood at the opening of their 
passages, to destroy utterly those of them that were escaping; neither shouldest 
thou have shut up his fugitives in the day of affliction.  For the day of the Lord is near upon 
all the Gentiles: as thou have done, so shall it be done to thee: thy 
recompense shall be returned on thine own head.  For as thou hast drunk upon my holy mountain, so 
shall all the nations drink wine; they shall drink, and go down, and be as if 
they were not. But on mount Sion there shall be 
deliverance, and there shall be a sanctuary; and the house of Jacob shall take 
for an inheritance those that took them for an inheritance.  And the house of Jacob shall be fire, 
and the house of Joseph a flame, and the house of Esau shall be for 
stubble; and Israel shall flame forth against them, and shall devour 
them, and there shall not be a corn-field left to the house of Esau; 
because the Lord has spoken.  And 
they that dwell in the south shall inherit the mount of Esau, and they in 
the plain the Philistines: and they shall inherit the mount of Ephraim, and the 
plain of Samaria, and Benjamin, and the land of Galaad.  And this shall be the domain 
of the captivity of the children of Israel, the land of the Chananites as far as 
Sarepta; and the captives of Jerusalem shall inherit as far as Ephratha; 
they shall inherit the cities of the south.  And they that escape shall come up 
from mount Sion, to take vengeance on the mount of Esau; and the kingdom shall 
be the Lord’s.