In the eighth month, in the second 
year of the reign of Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zacharias, the 
son of Barachias, the son of Addo, the prophet, saying,  The Lord has been very angry with your 
fathers.  And thou shalt say to 
them, Thus saith the Lord Almighty: Turn to me, saith the Lord of hosts, and I 
will turn to you, saith the Lord of hosts.  And be ye not as your fathers, whom the prophets before charged, 
saying, Thus saith the Lord Almighty: Turn ye from your evil ways, and from your 
evil practices: but they hearkened not, and attended not to hearken to me, saith 
the Lord.  Where are your fathers, and the 
prophets? Will they live for ever?  But do ye receive my words and mine ordinances, all that I 
command by my Spirit to my servants the prophets, who lived in the days of your 
fathers; and they answered and said, As the Lord Almighty determined to do to 
us, according to our ways, and according to our practices, so has he done to us. On the twenty-fourth day in the 
eleventh month, this is the month Sabat, in the second year of the reign of 
Darius, the word of the Lord came to Zacharias, the son of Barachias, the son of 
Addo, the prophet, saying,  I saw by night, and behold a man 
mounted on a red horse, and he stood between the shady mountains; and behind him 
were red horses, and grey, and piebald, and white.  And I said, What are these, my lord? And the angel 
spoke with me said to me, I will shew thee what these things are.  And the man that stood between the 
mountains answered, and said to me, These are they whom the Lord has sent 
forth to go round the earth.  And 
they answered the angel of the Lord that stood between the mountains, and said, 
We have gone round all the earth, and, behold, all the earth is inhabited, and 
is at rest.  Then the angel of the Lord answered 
and said, O Lord Almighty, how long wilt thou have no mercy on Jerusalem, and 
the cities of Juda, which thou has disregarded these seventy years?  And the Lord Almighty answered the angel 
that spoke with me good words and consolatory sayings.  And the angel that spoke with me said to me, Cry out and 
say,  Thus saith the Lord Almighty; I have been jealous for 
Jerusalem and Sion with great jealousy.  And I am very angry with the heathen that combine to attack 
her: forasmuch as I indeed was a little angry, but they combined to attack
her for evil.  Therefore 
thus saith the Lord: I will return to Jerusalem with compassion; and my house 
shall be rebuilt in her, saith the Lord Almighty, and a measuring line shall yet 
be stretched out over Jerusalem.  
And the angel that spoke with me said to me, Cry yet, and say, Thus saith the 
Lord Almighty; Yet shall cities be spread abroad through prosperity; and the 
Lord shall yet have mercy upon Sion, and shall choose Jerusalem. And I lifted up mine eyes and looked, 
and behold four horns.  And I said 
to the angel that spoke with me, What are these things, my lord? And he 
said to me, These are the horns that have scattered Juda, and Israel, and 
Jerusalem.  And the Lord shewed me 
four artificers.  And I said, What 
are these coming to do? And he said, These are the horns that scattered Juda, 
and they broke Israel in pieces, and none of them lifted up his head: and these 
are come forth to sharpen them for their hands, even the four horns, the 
nations that lifted up the horn against the land of the Lord to scatter it. And I lifted up mine eyes, and 
looked, and behold a man, and in his hand a measuring line.  And I said to him, Whither goest thou? 
And he said to me, To measure Jerusalem, to see what is the breadth of it, and 
what is the length of it.  And, 
behold, the angel that spoke with me stood by, and another angel went 
forth to meet him,  and spoke to 
him, saying, Run and speak to that young man, saying,  Jerusalem shall be fully inhabited by reason of the abundance 
of men and cattle in the midst of her.  And I will be to her, saith the Lord, a wall of fire round about, 
and I will be for a glory in the midst of her. Ho, ho, flee from the land of the 
north, saith the Lord: for I will gather you from the four winds of heaven, 
saith the Lord,  even to 
Sion: deliver yourselves, ye that dwell with the daughter of Babylon.
 For thus saith the Lord Almighty; 
After the glory has he sent me to the nations that spoiled you: for he that 
touches you is as one that touches the apple of his eye.  For, behold, I bring my hand upon them, and they shall be 
a spoil to them that serve them: and ye shall know that the Lord Almighty has 
sent me. Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of 
Sion: for, behold, I come, and will dwell in the midst of thee, saith the Lord.
 And many nations shall flee for 
refuge to the Lord in that day, and they shall be for a people to him, and they 
shall dwell in the midst of thee: and thou shalt know that the Lord Almighty has 
sent me to thee.  And the Lord 
shall inherit Juda his portion in the holy land, and he will yet choose 
Jerusalem.  Let all flesh fear 
before the Lord: for he has risen up from his holy clouds. And the Lord shewed me Jesus the 
high priest standing before the angel of the Lord, and the Devil stood on his 
right hand to resist him.  And the 
Lords said to the Devil, The Lord rebuke thee, O Devil, even 
the Lord that has chosen Jerusalem rebuke thee: behold! is not this as a brand 
plucked from the fire?   Now Jesus 
was clothed in filthy raiment, and stood before the angel.   And the Lord answered and spoke to 
those who stood before him, saying, Take away the filthy raiment from him: and 
he said to him, Behold, I have taken away thine iniquities: and clothe ye him 
with a long robe,   and place a pure 
mitre upon his head. So they placed a pure mitre upon his head, and clothed him 
with garments: and the angel of the Lord stood by.   And the angel of the Lord testified to Jesus, saying,
  Thus saith the Lord Almighty;
 If thou wilt walk in my ways, and take heed to my charges, 
then shalt thou judge my house: and if thou wilt diligently keep my court, then 
will I give thee men to walk in the midst of these that stand here.  Hear now, Jesus the high priest, thou, and thy 
neighbours that are sitting before thee: for they are diviners, for, 
behold, I bring forth my servant The Branch.   
For as for the stone which I have set before the face of Jesus, on the 
one stone are seven eyes: behold, I am digging a trench, saith the Lord 
Almighty, and I will search out all the iniquity of that land in one day.   In that day, saith the Lord Almighty, ye 
shall call together every man his neighbour under the vine and under the 
fig-tree. And the angel that talked with me 
returned, and awakened me, as when a man is awakened out of his sleep.  And he said to me, What seest thou? 
And I said, I have seen, and behold a candlestick all of gold, and its bowl upon 
it, and seven lamps upon it, and seven oil funnels to the lamps upon it:  and two olive-trees above it, one on the 
right of the bowl, and one on the left.  And I inquired, and spoke to the angel that talked with me, 
saying, What are these things, my lord?  And the angel that talked with me answered, and spoke to me, 
saying, Knowest thou not what these things are? And I said, No, my lord.
 And he answered and spoke to me, 
saying, This is the word of the Lord to Zorobabel, saying,  Not by mighty power, nor by strength, but by my Spirit, saith 
the Lord Almighty.  Who art thou, 
the great mountain before Zorobabel, that thou shouldest prosper? whereas I will 
bring out the stone of the inheritance, the grace of it the equal of my 
grace.  And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,  The hands of Zorobabel 
have laid the foundation of this house, and his hands shall finish it: and thou 
shalt know that the Lord Almighty has sent me to thee.  For who has despised the small days? surely they shall 
rejoice, and shall see the plummet of tin in the hand of Zorobabel: these are 
the seven eyes that look upon all the earth. And I answered, and said to him, What 
are these two olive-trees, which are on the right and left hand of the 
candlestick?  And I asked the 
second time, and said to him, What are the two branches of the olive-trees that 
are by the side of the two golden pipes that pour into and communicate with the 
golden oil funnels?  And he said 
to me, Knowest thou not what these are? and I said, No, my lord.  And he said, These are the two anointed 
ones that stand by the Lord of the whole earth. And I turned, and lifted up mine 
eyes, and looked and behold a flying sickle.  And he said to me, What seest thou? And I said, I see a flying 
sickle, of the length of twenty cubits, and of the breadth of ten cubits.  And he said to me,  This is the curse that goes forth over the face of the whole 
earth: for every thief shall be punished with death on this side, and every 
false swearer shall be punished on that side.  And I will bring it forth, saith the Lord Almighty, and it shall 
enter into the house of the thief, and into the house of him that swears falsely 
by my name: and it shall rest in the midst of his house, and shall consume it, 
and the timber of it, and the stones of it. And the angel that talked with me went 
forth, and said to me, Lift up thine eyes, and see this that goes forth.  And I said, What is it? And he said, This 
is the measure that goes forth. And he said, This is their iniquity in all the 
earth.  And behold a talent of lead 
lifted up: and behold a woman sat in the midst of the measure.  And he said, This is iniquity. And he 
cast it into the midst of the measure, and cast the weight of lead on the mouth 
of it.  And I lifted up mine eyes, 
and saw, and, behold, two women coming forth, and the wind was in their wings; 
and they had stork’s wings: and they lifted up the measure between the earth and 
the sky.  And I said to the angel 
that spoke with me, Whither do these carry away the measure?  And he said to me, To build it a house 
in the land of Babylon, and to prepare a place for it; and they shall set 
it there on its own base. And I turned, and lifted up mine 
eyes, and looked, and, behold, four chariots coming out from between two 
mountains; and the mountains were brazen mountains.  In the first chariot were red horses; and in the 
second chariot black horses;  and 
in the third chariot white horses; and in the fourth chariot piebald and 
ash-coloured horses.  And I 
answered and said to the angel that talked with me, What are these, my Lord?
 And the angel that talked with me 
answered and said, These are the four winds of heaven, and they are going 
forth to stand before the Lord of all the earth.  As for the chariot in which were the black horses, they 
went out to the land of the north; and the white went out after them; and the 
piebald went out to the land of the south.  And the ash-coloured went out, and looked to go and compass the 
earth: and he said, Go, and compass the earth. And they compassed the earth.
 And he cried out and spoke to me, 
saying, Behold, these go out to the land of the north, and they have quieted 
mine anger in the land of the north. And the word of the Lord came to me, 
saying,  Take the things of the 
captivity from the chief men, and from the useful men of it, and from them that 
have understood it; and thou shalt enter in that day into the house of Josias 
the son of Sophonias that came out of Babylon.  And thou shalt take silver and gold, and make crowns, and thou 
shalt put them upon the head of Jesus the son of Josedec the high priest;
 and thou shalt say to him, Thus 
saith the Lord Almighty;  Behold the man whose name is The Branch; and he shall spring 
up from his stem, and build the house of the Lord.  And he shall receive power, and shall sit and rule upon 
his throne; and there shall be a priest on his right hand, and a peaceable 
counsel shall be between them both.  And the crown shall be to them that 
wait patiently, and to the useful men of the captivity, and to them that have 
known it, and for the favour of the son of Sophonias, and for a psalm in the 
house of the Lord.  And they 
that are far from them shall come and build in the house of the Lord, and ye 
shall know that the Lord Almighty has sent me to you: and this shall come 
to pass, if ye will diligently hearken to the voice of the Lord your God. And it came to pass in the fourth 
year of Darius the king, that the word of the Lord came to Zacharias on 
the fourth day of the ninth month, which is Chaseleu.  And Sarasar and Arbeseer the king and his 
men sent to Bethel, and that to propitiate the Lord,  speaking to the priests that were in the 
house of the Lord Almighty, and to the prophets, saying, The holy offering has 
come in hither in the fifth month, as it has done already many years.  And the word of the Lord of hosts came 
to me, saying,  Speak to the whole 
people of the land, and to the priests, saying, Though ye fasted or lamented in 
the fifth or seventh months (yea, behold, these seventy years) have ye at 
all fasted to me?  And if ye eat or 
drink, do ye not eat and drink for yourselves?  Are not these the words which the Lord spoke by the former 
prophets, when Jerusalem was inhabited and in prosperity, and her cities round 
about her, and the hill country and the low country was inhabited? And the word of the Lord came to 
Zacharias, saying,  Thus saith the 
Lord Almighty;  Judge righteous judgment, and deal mercifully and 
compassionately every one with his brother:  and oppress not the widow, or the fatherless, or the stranger, or 
the poor; and let not one of you remember in his heart the injury of his 
brother.  But they refused to attend, and madly 
turned their back, and made their ears heavy, so that they should not hear.
 And they made their heart 
disobedient, so as not to hearken to my law, and the words which the Lord 
Almighty sent forth by his Spirit by the former prophets: so there was great 
wrath from the Lord Almighty.  And 
it shall come to pass, that as he spoke, and they hearkened not, so they 
shall cry, and I will not hearken, saith the Lord Almighty.  And I will cast them out among all the 
nations, whom they know not; and the land behind them shall be made utterly 
destitute of any going through or returning: yea they have made the choice land 
a desolation. And the word of the Lord Almighty 
came, saying,  Thus saith the Lord 
Almighty; I have been jealous for Jerusalem and for Sion with great jealousy, 
and I have been jealous for her with great fury.  Thus saith the Lord; I will return to 
Sion, and dwell in the midst of Jerusalem: and Jerusalem shall be called a true 
city, and the mountain of the Lord Almighty a holy mountain.  Thus saith the Lord Almighty; There 
shall yet dwell old men and old women in the streets of Jerusalem, every one 
holding his staff in his hand for age.  And the broad places of the city shall be filled with boys and 
girls playing in the streets thereof.  Thus saith the Lord Almighty; If it 
shall be impossible in the sight of the remnant of this people in those days, 
shall it also be impossible in my sight? saith the Lord Almighty.  Thus saith the Lord Almighty; Behold, 
I will save my people from the east country, and the west country;  and I will bring them in, and cause 
them to dwell in the midst of Jerusalem: and they shall be to me a people, 
and I will be to them a God, in truth and in righteousness. Thus saith the Lord Almighty; Let your 
hands be strong, ye that hear in these days these words out of the mouth 
of the prophets, from the day that the house of the Lord Almighty was founded, 
and from the time that the temple was built.  For before those days the wages of men could not be profitable, 
and there could be no hire of cattle, and there could be no peace by reason of 
the affliction to him that went out or to him that came in: for I would have let 
loose all men, every one against his neighbour.  But now I will not do to the remnant of this people 
according to the former days, saith the Lord Almighty.  But I will shew peace: the vine shall yield her fruit, and 
the land shall yield her produce, and the heaven shall give its dew: and I will 
give as an inheritance all these things to the remnant of my people.  And it shall come to pass, as ye were a 
curse among the nations, O house of Juda, and house of Israel; so will I save 
you, and ye shall be a blessing: be of good courage, and strengthen your hands.
 For thus saith the Lord Almighty; As 
I took counsel to afflict you when your fathers provoked me, saith the Lord 
Almighty, and I repented not:  so 
have I prepared and taken counsel in these days to do good to Jerusalem and to 
the house of Juda: be ye of good courage.  These are the things which ye shall do; speak truth every 
one with his neighbour; judge truth and peaceable judgment in your gates:  and let none of you devise evil in his 
heart against his neighbour; and love not a false oath: for all these things I 
hate, saith the Lord Almighty. And the word of the Lord Almighty 
came to me, saying,  Thus saith 
the Lord Almighty, The fourth fast, and the fifth fast, and the seventh fast, 
and the tenth fast, shall be to the house of Juda for joy and gladness, and for 
good feasts; and ye shall rejoice; and love ye the truth and peace.  Thus saith the Lord Almighty; Yet 
shall many peoples come, and the inhabitants of many cities;  and the inhabitants of five cities shall 
come together to one city, saying, Let us go to make supplication to the Lord, 
and to seek the face of the Lord Almighty; I will go also.  And many peoples and many nations shall 
come to seek earnestly the face of the Lord Almighty in Jerusalem, and to obtain 
favour of the Lord.  Thus saith the Lord Almighty; In 
those days my word shall be fulfilled if ten men of all the languages of 
the nations should take hold—even take hold of the hem of a Jew, saying, We will 
go with thee; for we have heard that God is with you. The burden of the word of the Lord, 
in the land of Sedrach, and his sacrifice shall be in Damascus; for the 
Lord looks upon men, and upon all the tribes of Israel.  And in Emath, even in her coasts, are Tyre 
and Sidon, because they were very wise.  And Tyrus built strong-holds for herself, and heaped up silver as 
dust, and gathered gold as the mire of the ways.  And therefore the Lord will take them 
for a possession, and will smite her power in the sea; and she shall be consumed 
with fire.  Ascalon shall see, and 
fear; Gaza also, and shall be greatly pained, and Accaron; for she is ashamed at 
her trespass; and the king shall perish from Gaza, and Ascalon shall not be 
inhabited.  And aliens shall dwell 
in Azotus, and I will bring down the pride of the Philistines.  And I will take their blood out of their 
mouth, and their abominations from between their teeth; and these also shall be 
left to our God, and they shall be as a captain of a thousand in Juda, and 
Accaron as a Jebusite.  And I will 
set up a defence for my house, that they may not pass through, nor turn back, 
neither shall there any more come upon them one to drive them away: for now have 
I seen with mine eyes. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Sion; 
proclaim it aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem; behold, the King is coming to 
thee, just, and a Saviour; he is meek and riding on an ass, and a young foal.
 And he shall destroy the chariots 
out of Ephraim, and the horse out of Jerusalem, and the bow of war shall be 
utterly destroyed; and there shall be abundance and peace out of the 
nations; and he shall rule over the waters as far as the sea, and the rivers 
to the ends of the earth.  And thou by the blood of thy covenant 
has sent forth thy prisoners out of the pit that has no water.  Ye shall dwell in strongholds, ye 
prisoners of the congregation: and for one day of thy captivity I will 
recompense thee double.  For I 
have bent thee, O Juda, for myself as a bow, I have filled Ephraim; and I 
will raise up thy children, O Sion, against the children of the Greeks, and I 
will handle thee as the sword of a warrior.  And the Lord shall be over them, and his arrow shall go 
forth as lightning: and the Lord Almighty shall blow with the trumpet; and shall 
proceed with the tumult of his threatening.  The Lord Almighty shall protect them, and they shall destroy 
them, and overwhelm them with sling-stones; and they shall swallow them down as 
wine, and fill the bowls as the altar.  And the Lord their God shall save them in that day, even 
his people as a flock; for holy stones are rolled upon his land.  For if he has anything good, and if he 
has anything fair, the young men shall have corn, and there shall be 
fragrant wine to the virgins. Ask ye of the Lord rain in season, 
the early and the latter: the Lord has given bright signs, and will give them 
abundant rain, to every one grass in the field.  For the speakers have uttered grievous things, and the diviners
have seen false visions, and they have spoken false dreams, they have 
given vain comfort: therefore have they fallen away like sheep, and been 
afflicted, because there was no healing.  Mine anger was kindled against the 
shepherds, and I will visit the lambs; and the Lord God Almighty shall visit his 
flock, the house of Juda, and he shall make them as his goodly horse in war.
 And from him he looked, and from 
him he set the battle in order, and from him came the bow in 
anger, and from him shall come forth every oppressor together.  And they shall be as warriors treading 
clay in the ways in war; and they shall set the battle in array, because the 
Lord is with them, and the riders on horses shall be put to shame.  And I will strengthen the house of 
Juda, and save the house of Joseph, and I will settle them; because I have loved 
them: and they shall be as if I had not cast them off: for I am the Lord 
their God, and I will hear them.  
And they shall be as the warriors of Ephraim, and their heart shall rejoice as 
with wine: and their children also shall see it, and be glad; and their 
heart shall rejoice in the Lord.  I 
will make a sign to them, and gather them in; for I will redeem them, and they 
shall be multiplied according to their number before.  And I will sow them among the people; 
and they that are afar off shall remember me: they shall nourish their children, 
and they shall return.  And I will 
bring them again from the land of Egypt, and I will gather them in from among 
the Assyrians; and I will bring them into the land of Galaad and to Libanus; and 
there shall not even one of them be left behind.  And they shall pass through a narrow sea, they shall smite the 
waves in the sea, and all the deep places of the rivers shall be dried up: and 
all the pride of the Assyrians shall be taken away, and the sceptre of Egypt 
shall be removed.  And I will 
strengthen them in the Lord their God; and they shall boast in his name, saith 
the Lord. Open thy doors, O Libanus, and let 
the fire devour thy cedars.  Let 
the pine howl, because the cedar has fallen; for the mighty men have been 
greatly afflicted: howl, ye oaks of the land of Basan; for the thickly planted 
forest has been torn down.  There is a voice of the 
shepherds mourning; for their greatness is brought low: a voice of roaring 
lions; for the pride of Jordan is brought down. Thus saith the Lord Almighty, Feed the 
sheep of the slaughter;  which 
their possessors have slain, and have not repented: and they that sold them 
said, Blessed be the Lord; for we have become rich: and their shepherds have 
suffered no sorrow for them.  
Therefore I will no longer have mercy upon the inhabitants of the land, saith 
the Lord: but, behold, I will deliver up the men every one into the hand of his 
neighbour, and into the hand of his king; and they shall destroy the land, and I 
will not rescue out of their hand.  And I will tend the flock of slaughter 
in the land of Chanaan: and I will take for myself two rods; the one I called 
Beauty, and the other I called Line; and I will tend the flock.  And I will cut off three shepherds in one 
month; and my soul shall grieve over them, for their souls cried out against me.
 And I said, I will not tend you: 
that which dies, let it die; and that which falls off, let it fall off; and let 
the rest eat every one the flesh of his neighbour.  And I will take my beautiful staff, 
and cast it away, that I may break my covenant which I made with all the people.
 And it shall be broken in that 
day; and the Chananites, the sheep that are kept for me, shall know that it is 
the word of the Lord.  And I will 
say to them, If it be good in your eyes, give me my price, or refuse it. 
And they weighed for my price thirty pieces of silver.  And the Lord said to me, Drop them into the furnace, and I 
will see if it is good metal, as I was proved for their sakes. And I took 
the thirty pieces of silver, and cast them into the furnace in the house of the 
Lord.  And I cast away my second rod,
even Line, that I might break the possession between Juda and Israel.
 And the Lord said to me, Take yet 
to thee shepherd’s implements belonging to an unskillful shepherd.  For, behold, I will raise up a 
shepherd against the land: he shall not visit that which is perishing, and he 
shall not seek that which is scattered, and he shall not heal that which is 
bruised, nor guide that which is whole: but he shall devour the flesh of the 
choice ones, and shall dislocate the joints of their necks.  Alas for the vain shepherds that have 
forsaken the sheep! the sword shall be upon the arms of such a one, and 
upon his right eye: his arm shall be completely withered, and his right eye 
shall be utterly darkened. The burden of the word of the Lord 
for Israel; saith the Lord, that stretches out the sky, and lays the foundation 
of the earth, and forms the spirit of man within him.  Behold, I will make Jerusalem as trembling 
door-posts to all the nations round about, and in Judea there shall be a siege 
against Jerusalem.  And it shall 
come to pass in that day that I will make Jerusalem a trodden stone to 
all the nations: every one that tramples on it shall utterly mock at it, 
and all the nations of the earth shall be gathered together against it.  In that day, saith the Lord Almighty, I 
will smite every horse with amazement, and his rider with madness: but I will 
open mine eyes upon the house of Juda, and I will smite all the horses of the 
nations with blindness.  And the captains of thousands of Juda 
shall say in their hearts, We shall find for ourselves the inhabitants of 
Jerusalem in the Lord Almighty their God.  In that day I will make the captains of thousands of Juda as a 
firebrand among wood, and as a torch of fire in stubble; and they shall devour 
on the right hand and on the left all the nations round about: and Jerusalem 
shall dwell again by herself, even in Jerusalem.  And the Lord shall save the tabernacles of Juda as at the 
beginning, that the boast of the house of David, and the pride of the 
inhabitants of Jerusalem, may not magnify themselves against Juda.  And it shall come to pass in that day, 
that the Lord shall defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and the weak one 
among them in that day shall be as David, and the house of David as the house of 
God, as the angel of the Lord before them.  And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will seek to 
destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem.  And I will pour upon the house of David, and upon the 
inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and compassion: and they shall 
look upon me, because they have mocked me, and they shall make 
lamentation for him, as for a beloved friend, and they shall grieve 
intensely, as for a firstborn son.  In that day the lamentation in 
Jerusalem shall be very great, as the mourning for the pomegranate grove cut 
down in the plain.  And the land 
shall lament in separate families, the family of the house of David by itself, 
and their wives by themselves; the family of the house of Nathan by itself, and 
their wives by themselves;  the 
family of the house of Levi by itself, and their wives by themselves; the family 
of Symeon by itself, and their wives by themselves;  all the families that are left, each family by itself, and 
their wives by themselves. In that day every place shall be 
opened to the house of David and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem for removal and 
for separation.  And it shall come 
to pass in that day, saith the Lord of hosts, that I will utterly destroy 
the names of the idols from off the land, and there shall be no longer any 
remembrance of them: and I will cut off the false prophets and the evil spirit 
from the land.  And it shall come 
to pass, if a man will yet prophesy, that his father and his mother which gave 
birth to him shall say to him, Thou shalt not live; for thou has spoken lies in 
the name of the Lord: and his father and his mother who gave him birth shall 
bind him as he is prophesying.  And it shall come to pass in that day,
that the prophets shall be ashamed every one of his vision when he 
prophesies; and they shall clothe themselves with a garment of hair, because 
they have lied.  And one 
shall say, I am not a prophet, for I am a tiller of the ground, for a man 
brought me up thus from my youth.  And I will say to him, What are these wounds between thine hands? 
and he shall say, Those with which I was wounded in my beloved house. Awake, O sword, against my shepherds, 
and against the man who is my citizen, saith the Lord Almighty: smite the 
shepherds, and draw out the sheep: and I will bring mine hand upon the little 
ones.  And it shall come to pass,
that in all the land, saith the Lord, two parts thereof shall be cut off 
and perish; but the third shall be left therein.  And I will bring the third part through the fire, and I 
will try them as silver is tried, and I will prove them as gold is proved: they 
shall call upon my name, and I will hear them, and say, This is my people: and 
they shall say, The Lord is my God. Behold, the days of the Lord come, 
and thy spoils shall be divided in thee.  And I will gather all the Gentiles to Jerusalem to war, and the 
city shall be taken, and the houses plundered, and the women ravished; and half 
of the city shall go forth into captivity, but the rest of my people shall not 
be utterly cut off from the city.  And the Lord shall go forth, and fight 
with those Gentiles as when he fought in the day of war.  And his feet shall stand in that day on the mount of 
Olives, which is before Jerusalem on the east, and the mount of Olives shall 
cleave asunder, half of it toward the east and the west, a very great division; 
and half the mountain shall lean to the north, and half of it to the south.
 And the valley of my mountains 
shall be closed up, and the valley of the mountains shall be joined on to Jasod, 
and shall be blocked up as it was blocked up in the days of the earthquake, in 
the days of Ozias king of Juda; and the Lord my God shall come, and all the 
saints with him.  And it shall come 
to pass in that day that there shall be no light,  and there shall be for one day cold and frost, and that day 
shall be known to the Lord, and it shall not be day nor night: 
but towards evening it shall be light. And in that day living water shall 
come forth out of Jerusalem; half of it toward the former sea, and half of it 
toward the latter sea: and so shall it be in summer and spring.  And the Lord shall be king over all the 
earth: in that day there shall be one Lord, and his name one,  compassing all the earth, and the 
wilderness from Gabe unto Remmon south of Jerusalem. And Rama shall remain in 
its place. From the gate of Benjamin to the place of the first gate, to the gate 
of the corners, and to the tower of Anameel, as far as the king’s winepresses,
 they shall dwell in the city; and 
there shall be no more any curse, and Jerusalem shall dwell securely.  And this shall be the overthrow with 
which the Lord will smite all the nations, as many as have fought against 
Jerusalem; their flesh shall consume away while they are standing upon their 
feet, and their eyes shall melt out of their holes, and their tongue shall 
consume away in their mouth.  And 
there shall be in that day a great panic from the Lord upon them; and they shall 
lay hold every man of the hand of his neighbour, and his hand shall be clasped 
with the hand of his neighbour.  
Juda also shall fight in Jerusalem; and God shall gather the strength of 
all the nations round about, gold, and silver, and apparel, in great abundance.
 And this shall be the overthrow 
of the horses, and mules, and camels, and asses, and all the beasts that are in 
those camps, according to this overthrow. And it shall come to pass, that 
whosoever shall be left of all the nations that came against Jerusalem, shall 
even come up every year to worship the king, the Lord Almighty, and to keep the 
feast of tabernacles.  And it 
shall come to pass, that whosoever of all the families of the earth shall 
not come up to Jerusalem to worship the king, the Lord Almighty, even these 
shall be added to the others.  And 
if the family of Egypt shall not go up, nor come; then upon them shall be the 
overthrow with which the Lord shall smite all the nations, whichever of them 
shall not come up to keep the feast of tabernacles.  This shall be the sin of Egypt, and the sin of all the 
nations, whosoever shall not come up to keep the feast of tabernacles.  In that day there shall be upon the 
bridle of every horse Holiness to the Lord Almighty; and the caldrons in the 
house of the Lord shall be as bowls before the altar.  And every pot in Jerusalem and in Juda shall be holy to 
the Lord Almighty: and all that sacrifice shall come and take of them, and shall 
seethe meat in them: and in that day there shall be no more the Chananite 
in the house of the Lord Almighty.