
First Clement












CLEMENT OF ROME, First Epistle

Letter of Clement to the Corinthians
CHAPTER 1 -- SALUTATION, AND PRAISE FOR THE CORINTHIANS BEFORE SCHISM BROKE 
FORTH AMONG THEM. 
The Church of God which sojourns at Rome, to the Church of God sojourning at 
Corinth, to those who are called and sanctified by the will of God, through our 
Lord Jesus Christ: Grace to you, and peace, from Almighty God through Jesus 
Christ, be multiplied. 
Owing, dear brethren, to the sudden and successive calamitous events which 
have happened to ourselves, we feel that we have been somewhat tardy in turning 
our attention to the points respecting which you consulted us; and especially to 
that shameful and detestable sedition, utterly abhorrent to the elect of God, 
which a few rash and self-confident persons have kindled to such a pitch of 
frenzy, that your venerable and illustrious name, worthy to be universally 
loved, has suffered grievous injury. For who ever dwelt even for a short time 
among you, and did not find your faith to be as fruitful of virtue as it was 
firmly established? Who did not admire the sobriety and moderation of your 
godliness in Christ? Who did not proclaim the magnificence of your habitual 
hospitality? And who did not rejoice over your perfect and well-grounded 
knowledge? For you did all things without respect of persons, and walked in the 
commandments of God, being obedient to those who had the rule over you, and 
giving all fitting honour to the presbyters among you. You enjoined young men to 
be of a sober and serious mind; you instructed your wives to do all things with 
a blameless, becoming, and pure conscience, loving their husbands as in duty 
bound; and you taught them that, living in the rule of obedience, they should 
manage their household affairs becomingly, and be in every respect marked by 
discretion. 
CHAPTER 2 -- PRAISE OF THE CORINTHIANS CONTINUED. 
Moreover, you were all distinguished by humility, and were in no respect 
puffed up with pride, but yielded obedience rather than extorted it, and were 
more willing to give than to receive? Content with the provision which God had 
made for you, and carefully attending to His words, you were inwardly filled 
with His doctrine, and His sufferings were before your eyes. Thus a profound and 
abundant peace was given to you all, and you had an insatiable desire for doing 
good, while a full outpouring of the Holy Spirit was upon you all. Full of holy 
designs, and with true earnestness of mind and a godly confidence, you stretched 
forth your hands to God Almighty, beseeching Him to be merciful to you, if you 
had been guilty of any involuntary transgression. Day and night you were anxious 
for the whole brotherhood, that the number of God's elect might be saved with 
mercy and a good conscience. You were sincere and uncorrupted, and forgetful of 
injuries between one another. Every kind of faction and schism was abominable in 
your sight. You mourned over the transgressions of your neighhours: their 
deficiencies you deemed your own. You never grudged any act of kindness, being 
"ready to every good work." Adorned by a thoroughly virtuous and religious life, 
you did all things in the fear of God. The commandments and ordinances of the 
Lord were written upon the tablets of your hearts. 
CHAPTER 3 -- THE SAD STATE OF THE CORINTHIAN CHURCH AFTER SEDITION AROSE IN 
IT FROM ENVY AND EMULATION. 
Every kind of honour and happiness was bestowed upon you, and then was 
fulfilled that which is written, "My beloved ate and drink, and was enlarged and 
became fat, and kicked." Hence flowed emulation and envy, strife and sedition, 
persecution and disorder, war and captivity. So the worthless rose up against 
the honoured, those of no reputation against such as were renowned, the foolish 
against the wise, the young against those advanced in years. For this reason 
righteousness and peace are now far departed from you, inasmuch as every one 
abandons the fear of God, and is become blind in His faith, neither walks in the 
ordinances of His appointment, nor acts a part becoming a Christian, but walks 
after his own wicked lusts, resuming the practice of an unrighteous and ungodly 
envy, by which death itself entered into the world. 
CHAPTER 4 -- MANY EVILS HAVE ALREADY FLOWED FROM THIS SOURCE IN ANCIENT 
TIMES. 
For thus it is written: "And it came to pass after certain days, that Cain 
brought of the fruits of the earth a sacrifice to God; and Abel also brought of 
the firstlings of his sheep, and of the fat thereof. And God had respect to Abel 
and to his offerings, but Cain and his sacrifices He did not regard. And Cain 
was deeply grieved, and his countenance fell. And God said to Cain, Why are you 
grieved, and why is your countenance fallen? If you offer rightly, but do not 
divide rightly, have you not sinned? Be at peace: your offering returns to 
yourself, and you shall again possess it. And Cain said to Abel his brother, Let 
us go into the field. And it came to pass, while they were in the field, that 
Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and killed him." You see, brethren, how 
envy and jealousy led to the murder of a brother. Through envy, also, our father 
Jacob fled from the face of Esau his brother. Envy made Joseph be persecuted 
unto death, and to come into bondage. Envy compelled Moses to flee from the face 
of Pharaoh king of Egypt, when he heard these words from his fellow countryman, 
"Who made you a judge or a ruler over us? Will you kill me, as you killed the 
Egyptian yesterday?" On account of envy, Aaron and Miriam had to make their home 
outside of the camp. Envy brought down Dathan and Abiram alive to Hades, through 
the sedition which they excited against God's servant Moses. Through envy, David 
underwent the hatred not only of foreigners, but was also persecuted by Saul 
king of Israel. 
CHAPTER 5 -- NO LESS EVILS HAVE ARISEN FROM THE SAME SOURCE IN THE MOST 
RECENT TIMES. THE MARTYRDOM OF PETER AND PAUL. 
But not to dwell upon ancient examples, let us come to the most recent 
spiritual heroes. Let us take the noble examples furnished in our own 
generation. Through envy and jealousy, the greatest and most righteous pillars 
[of the Church] have been persecuted and put to death. Let us set before our 
eyes the illustrious apostles. Peter, through unrighteous envy, endured not one 
or two, but numerous labours, and when he had finally suffered martyrdom, 
departed to the place of glory due to him. Owing to envy, Paul also obtained the 
reward of patient endurance, after being seven times thrown into captivity, 
compelled to flee, and stoned. After preaching both in the east and west, he 
gained the illustrious reputation due to his faith, having taught righteousness 
to the whole world, and come to the extreme limit of the west, and suffered 
martyrdom under the prefects. Thus was he removed from the world, and went into 
the holy place, having proved himself a striking example of patience. 
CHAPTER 6 -- CONTINUATION. SEVERAL OTHER MARTYRS. 
To these men who spent their lives in the practice of holiness, there is to 
be added a great multitude of the elect, who, having through envy endured many 
indignities and tortures, furnished us with a most excellent example. Through 
envy, those women, the Danaids and Dircae, being persecuted, after they had 
suffered terrible and unspeakable torments, finished the course of their faith 
with steadfastness, and though weak in body, received a noble reward. Envy has 
alienated wives from their husbands, and changed that saying of our father Adam, 
"This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh." Envy and strife have 
overthrown great cities and rooted up mighty nations. 
CHAPTER 7 -- AN EXHORTATION TO REPENTANCE. 
These things, beloved, we write to you, not merely to admonish you of your 
duty, but also to remind ourselves. For we are struggling in the same arena, and 
the same conflict is assigned to both of us. So let us give up vain and 
fruitless cares, and approach to the glorious and venerable rule of our holy 
calling. Let us attend to what is good, pleasing, and acceptable in the sight of 
Him who formed us. Let us look steadfastly to the blood of Christ, and see how 
precious that blood is to God, which, having been shed for our salvation, has 
set the grace of repentance before the whole world. Let us turn to every age 
that has passed, and learn that, from generation to generation, the Lord has 
granted a place of repentance to all who would be converted to Him. Noah 
preached repentance, and as many as listened to him were saved. Jonah proclaimed 
destruction to the Ninevites; but they, repenting of their sins, propitiated God 
by prayer, and obtained salvation, although they were aliens [to the covenant] 
of God. 
CHAPTER 8 -- CONTINUATION RESPECTING REPENTANCE. 
The ministers of the grace of God have, by the Holy Spirit, spoken of 
repentance; and the Lord of all things has himself declared with an oath 
regarding it, "As I live, says the Lord, I desire not the death of the sinner, 
but rather his repentance;" adding, moreover, this gracious declaration: "Repent 
O house of Israel, of your iniquity. Say to the children of My people, Though 
your sins reach from earth to heaven, and though they be redder than scarlet, 
and blacker than sackcloth, if you turn to Me with your whole heart, and say, 
Father! I will listen to you, as to a holy people." And in another place He 
says: "Wash, and become clean; put away the wickedness of your souls from before 
my eyes; cease from your evil ways, and learn to do well; seek out judgment, 
deliver the oppressed, judge the fatherless, and see that justice is done to the 
widow; and come, and let us reason together. He declares, "Though your sins be 
like crimson, I will make them white as snow; though they be like scarlet, I 
will whiten them like wool. And if you are willing and obey Me, you shall eat 
the good of the land; but if you refuse, and will not listen to Me, the sword 
shall devour you, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken these things." Desiring, 
therefore, that all His beloved should be partakers of repentance, He has, by 
His almighty will, established [these declarations]. 
CHAPTER 9 -- EXAMPLES OF THE SAINTS. 
So let us yield obedience to His excellent and glorious will; and imploring 
His mercy and loving-kindness, while we forsake all fruitless labours, and 
strife, and envy, which leads to death, let us turn and have recourse to His 
compassions. Let us steadfastly contemplate those who have perfectly ministered 
to His excellent glory. Let us take (for instance) Enoch, who, being found 
righteous in obedience, was translated, and death was never known to happen to 
him? Noah, being found faithful, preached regeneration to the world through his 
ministry; and the Lord saved by him the animals which, with one accord, entered 
into the ark. 
CHAPTER 10 -- CONTINUATION OF THE ABOVE. 
Abraham, called "the friend," was found faithful, inasmuch as he obeyed the 
words of God. He, in the exercise of obedience, went out from his own country, 
and from his kindred, and from his father's house, in order that, by forsaking a 
small territory, and a weak family, and an insignificant house, he might inherit 
the promises of God. For God said to him, "Leave your country, and your kindred, 
and your father's house, and go into the land which I shall show you. And I will 
make you a great nation, and will bless you, and make your name great, and you 
shall be blessed. And I will bless those who bless you, and curse those who 
curse you; and in you shall all the families of the earth be blessed." And 
again, on his departing from Lot, God said to him. "Lift up your eyes, and look 
from the place where you now are, northward, and southward, and eastward, and 
westward; for all the land which you see, to you will I give it, and to your 
seed for ever. And I will make your seed as the dust of the earth, [so that] if 
a man can number the dust of the earth, then shall your seed also be numbered." 
And again [the Scripture] says, "God brought forth Abram, and said to him, Look 
up now to heaven, and count the stars if you are able to number them; so shall 
your seed be. And Abram believed God, and it was counted to him for 
righteousness." On account of his faith and hospitality, a son was given him in 
his old age; and in the exercise of obedience, he offered him as a sacrifice to 
God on one of the mountains which He showed him. 
CHAPTER 11 -- CONTINUATION. LOT. 
On account of his hospitality and godliness, Lot was saved out of Sodom when 
all the country around him was punished by means of fire and brimstone, the Lord 
thus making it manifest that He does not forsake those who hope in Him, but 
gives up those who depart from Him to punishment and torture. For Lot's wife, 
who went forth with him, being of a different mind from himself and not 
continuing in agreement with him [as to the command which had been given them], 
was made an example of, so as to be a pillar of salt to this day. This was done 
that all might know that those who are of a double mind, and who distrust the 
power of God, bring down judgment on themselves, and become a sign to all 
succeeding generations. 
CHAPTER 12 -- THE REWARDS OF FAITH AND HOSPITALITY. RAHAB. 
On account of her faith and hospitality, Rahab the harlot was saved. For when 
spies were sent by Joshua, the son of Nun, to Jericho, the king of the country 
ascertained that they had come to spy out their land, and sent men to seize 
them, in order that, when taken, they might be put to death. But the hospitable 
Rahab received them, and hid them on the roof of her house under some stalks of 
flax. And when the men sent by the king arrived and said "There came men to you 
who are to spy out our land; bring them forth, for so the king commands," she 
answered them, "The two men whom you seek came to me, but quickly departed again 
and are gone," thus not discovering the spies to them. Then she said to the men, 
"I know assuredly that the Lord your God has given you this city, for the fear 
and dread of you have fallen on its inhabitants. When therefore you shall have 
taken it, keep me and the house of my father in safety." And they said to her, 
"It shall be as you have spoken to us. As soon, therefore, as you know that we 
are at hand, you shall gather all your family under your roof, and they shall be 
preserved, but anyone found outside of your dwelling shall perish." Moreover, 
they gave her a sign to this effect, that she should hang forth from her house a 
scarlet thread. And thus they made it manifest that redemption should flow 
through the blood of the Lord to all those who believe and hope in God. You see, 
beloved, that there was not only faith, but prophecy, in this woman. 
CHAPTER 13 -- AN EXHORTATION TO HUMILITY. 
Let us therefore, brethren, be of humble mind, laying aside all haughtiness, 
and pride, and foolishness, and angry feelings; and let us act according to that 
which is written (for the Holy Spirit says, "Let not the wise man glory in his 
wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might, neither let the rich man 
Story in his riches; but let him that glories glory in the Lord, in diligently 
seeking Him, and doing judgment and righteousness" ), being especially mindful 
of the words of the Lord Jesus which He spoke, teaching us meekness and 
long-suffering. For thus He spoke: "Be merciful, that you may obtain mercy; 
forgive, that it may be forgiven to you; as you do, so shall it be done to you; 
as you judge, so shall you be judged; as you are kind, so shall kindness be 
shown to you; with what measure you measure, with the same it shall be measured 
to you." By this precept and by these rules let us establish ourselves, that we 
walk with all humility in obedience to His holy words. For the holy word says, 
"On whom shall I look, but on him that is meek and peaceable, and who trembles 
at My words?" 
CHAPTER 14 -- WE SHOULD OBEY GOD RATHER THAN THE AUTHORS OF SEDITION. 
It is right and holy therefore, men and brethren, to obey God rather than to 
follow those who, through pride and sedition, have become the leaders of a 
detestable emulation. For we shall incur no slight injury, but rather great 
danger, if we rashly yield ourselves to the inclinations of men who aim at 
exciting strife and tumults, so as to draw us away from what is good. Let us be 
kind one to another after the pattern of the tender mercy and benignity of our 
Creator. For it is written, "The kind-hearted shall inhabit the land, and the 
guiltless shall be left upon it, but transgressors shall be destroyed from off 
the face of it." And again [the Scripture] says, "I saw the ungodly highly 
exalted, and lifted up like the cedars of Lebanon: I passed by, and, behold, he 
was not; and I diligently sought his place, and could not find it. Preserve 
innocence, and look on equity: for there shall be a remnant to the peaceful 
man." 
CHAPTER 15 -- WE MUST ADHERE TO THOSE WHO CULTIVATE PEACE, NOT TO THOSE WHO 
MERELY PRETEND TO DO SO. 
Let us cleave, therefore, to those who cultivate peace with godliness, and 
not to those who hypocritically profess to desire it. For [the Scripture] says 
in a certain place, "This people honours Me with their lips, but their heart is 
far from Me." And again: "They bless with their mouth, but curse with their 
heart." And again it says, "They loved Him with their mouth, and lied to Him 
with their tongue; but their heart was not right with Him, neither were they 
faithful in His covenant." "Let the deceitful lips become silent," [and "let the 
Lord destroy all the lying lips,] and the boastful tongue of those who have 
said, Let us magnify our tongue; our lips are our own; who is lord over us? For 
the oppression of the poor, and for the sighing of the needy, will I now arise, 
says the Lord: I will place him in safety; I will deal confidently with him." 
CHAPTER 16 -- CHRIST AS AN EXAMPLE OF HUMILITY. 
For Christ is of those who are humble-minded, and not of those who exalt 
themselves over His flock. Our Lord Jesus Christ, the Sceptre of the majesty of 
God, did not come in the pomp of pride or arrogance, although He might have done 
so, but in a lowly condition, as the Holy Spirit had declared regarding Him. For 
He says, "Lord, who has believed our report, and to whom is the arm of the Lord 
revealed? We have declared [our message] in His presence: He is, as it were, a 
child, and like a root in thirsty ground; He has no form nor glory, yea, we saw 
Him, and He had no form nor comeliness; but His form was without eminence, yea, 
deficient in comparison with the [ordinary] form of men. He is a man exposed to 
stripes and suffering, and acquainted with the endurance of grief: for His 
countenance was turned away; He was despised, and not esteemed. He bears our 
iniquities, and is in sorrow for our sakes; yet we supposed that [on His own 
account] He was exposed to labour, and stripes, and affliction. But He was 
wounded for our transgressions, and bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement 
of our peace was upon Him, and by His stripes we were healed. All we, like 
sheep, have gone astray; [every] man has wandered in his own way; and the Lord 
has delivered Him up for our sins, while He in the midst of His sufferings opens 
not His mouth. He was brought as a sheep to the slaughter, and as a lamb before 
her shearer is dumb, so He opens not His mouth. In His humiliation His judgment 
was taken away; who shall declare His generation? For His life is taken from the 
earth. For the transgressions of my people was He brought down to death. And I 
will give the wicked for His sepulchre, and the rich for His death, because He 
did no iniquity, nor was guile found in His mouth. And the Lord is pleased to 
purify Him by stripes. If you make an offering for sin, your soul shall see a 
long-lived seed. And the Lord is pleased to relieve Him of the affliction of His 
soul, to show Him light, and to form Him with understanding, to justify the Just 
One who ministers well to many; and He Himself shall carry their sins. On this 
account He shall inherit many, and shall divide the spoil of the strong; because 
His soul was delivered to death, and He was reckoned among the transgressors, 
and He bare the sins of many, and for their sins was He delivered." And again He 
says, "I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people. 
All who see Me have derided Me; they have spoken with their lips; they have 
wagged their head, [saying] He hoped in God, let Him deliver Him, let Him save 
Him, since He delights in Him." You see, beloved, what is the example which has 
been given us; for if the Lord thus humbled Himself, what shall we do who have 
through Him come under the yoke of His grace? 
CHAPTER 17 -- THE SAINTS AS EXAMPLES OF HUMILITY. 
Let us be imitators also of those who in goat-skins and sheep-skins went 
about proclaiming the coming of Christ; I mean Elijah, Elisha, and Ezekiel among 
the prophets, with those others to whom a like testimony is borne [in 
Scripture]. Abraham was specially honoured, and was called the friend of God; 
yet he, earnestly regarding the glory of God, humbly declared, "I am but dust 
and ashes." Moreover, it is thus written of Job, "Job was a righteous man, and 
blameless, truthful, God-fearing, and one that kept himself from all evil." But 
bringing an accusation against himself, he said, "No man is free from 
defilement, even if his life be but of one day." Moses was called faithful in 
all God's house; and through his instrumentality, God punished Egypt with 
plagues and tortures. Yet he, though thus greatly honoured, did not adopt lofty 
language, but said, when the divine oracle came to him out of the bush, "Who am 
I, that You send me? I am a man of a feeble voice and a slow tongue." And again 
he said, "I am but as the smoke of a pot." 
CHAPTER 18 -- DAVID AS AN EXAMPLE OF HUMILITY. 
But what shall we say concerning David, to whom such testimony was borne, and 
of whom God said, "I have found a man after My own heart, David the son of 
Jesse; and in everlasting mercy have I anointed him?" Yet this very man says to 
God, "Have mercy on me, O Lord, according to Your great mercy; and according to 
the multitude of Your compassions, blot out my transgression. Wash me still more 
from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my iniquity, and 
my sin is ever before me. Against You only have I sinned, and done that which 
was evil in Your sight; that You may be justified in Your sayings, and may 
overcome when You are judged. For, behold, I was conceived in transgressions, 
and in my sins did my mother conceive me. For, behold, You have loved truth; the 
secret and hidden things of wisdom have You shown me. you shall sprinkle me with 
hyssop, and I shall be cleansed; you shall wash me, and I shall be whiter than 
snow. you shall make me to hear joy and gladness; my bones, which have been 
humbled, shall exult. Turn away Your face from my sins, and blot out all my 
iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within 
me. Cast me not away from Your presence, and take not Your Holy Spirit from me. 
Restore to me the joy of Your salvation, and establish me by Your governing 
Spirit. I will teach transgressors Your ways, and the ungodly shall be converted 
to You. Deliver me from blood-guiltiness, O God, the God of my salvation: my 
tongue shall exult in Your righteousness. O Lord, you shall open my mouth, and 
my lips shall show forth Your praise. For if You had desired sacrifice, I would 
have given it; You will not delight in burnt-offerings. The sacrifice 
[acceptable] to God is a bruised spirit; a broken and a contrite heart God will 
not despise." 
CHAPTER 19 -- IMITATING THESE EXAMPLES, LET US SEEK AFTER PEACE. 
Thus the humility and godly submission of so great and illustrious men have 
rendered not only us, but also all the generations before us, better; even as 
many as have received His oracles in fear and truth. So, having so many great 
and glorious examples set before us, let us turn again to the practice of that 
peace which from the beginning was the mark set before us; and let us look 
steadfastly to the Father and Creator of the universe, and cleave to His mighty 
and surpassingly great gifts and benefactions, of peace. Let us contemplate Him 
with our understanding, and look with the eyes of our soul to His long-suffering 
will. Let us reflect how free from wrath He is towards all His creation. 
CHAPTER 20 -- THE PEACE AND HARMONY OF THE UNIVERSE. 
The heavens, revolving under His government, are subject to Him in peace. Day 
and night run the course appointed by Him, in no way hindering each other. The 
sun and moon, with the companies of the stars, roll on in harmony according to 
His command, within their prescribed limits, and without any deviation. The 
fruitful earth, according to His will, brings forth food in abundance, at the 
proper seasons, for man and beast and all the living beings upon it, never 
hesitating, nor changing any of the ordinances which He has fixed. The 
unsearchable places of abysses, and the indescribable arrangements of the lower 
world, are restrained by the same laws. The vast unmeasurable sea, gathered 
together by His working into various basins, never passes beyond the bounds 
placed around it, but does as He has commanded. For He said, "Thus far shall you 
come, and your waves shall be broken within you." The ocean, impassible to man, 
and the worlds beyond it, are regulated by the same enactments of the Lord. The 
seasons of spring, summer, autumn, and winter, peacefully give place to one 
another. The winds in their several quarters fulfill, at the proper time, their 
service without hindrance. The ever-flowing fountains, formed both for enjoyment 
and health, furnish without fail their breasts for the life of men. The very 
smallest of living beings meet together in peace and concord. All these the 
great Creator and Lord of all has appointed to exist in peace and harmony; while 
He does good to all, but most abundantly to us who have fled for refuge to His 
compassions through Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom be glory and majesty for ever 
and ever. Amen. xxxxx 
CHAPTER 21 -- LET US OBEY GOD, AND NOT THE AUTHORS OF SEDITION. 
Take heed, beloved, lest His many kindnesses lead to the condemnation of us 
all. [For thus it must be] unless we walk worthy of Him, and with one mind do 
those things which are good and well-pleasing in His sight. For [the Scripture] 
says in a certain place, "The Spirit of the Lord is a candle searching the 
secret parts of the belly." Let us reflect how near He is, and that none of the 
thoughts or reasonings in which we engage are hid from Him. It is right, 
therefore, that we should not leave the post which His will has assigned us. Let 
us rather offend those men who are foolish, and inconsiderate, and lifted up, 
and who glory in the pride of their speech, than [offend] God. Let us reverence 
the Lord Jesus Christ, whose blood was given for us; let us esteem those who 
have the rule over us; let us honour the aged among us; let us train up the 
young men in the fear of God; let us direct our wives to that which is good. Let 
them exhibit the lovely habit of purity [in all their conduct]; let them show 
forth the sincere disposition of meekness; let them make manifest the command 
which they have of their tongue, by their manner of speaking; let them display 
their love, not by preferring one to another, but by showing equal affection to 
all that piously fear God. Let your children be partakers of true Christian 
training; let them learn of how great avail humility is with God -- how much the 
spirit of pure affection can prevail with Him -- how excellent and great His 
fear is, and how it saves all those who walk in it with a pure mind. For He is a 
Searcher of the thoughts and desires [of the heart]: His breath is in us; and 
when He pleases, He will take it away. 
CHAPTER 22 -- THESE EXHORTATIONS ARE CONFIRMED BY THE CHRISTIAN FAITH, WHICH 
PROCLAIMS THE MISERY OF SINFUL CONDUCT. 
Now the faith which is in Christ confirms all these [admonitions]. For He 
Himself by the Holy Ghost thus addresses us: "Come, you children, listen to Me; 
I will teach you the fear of the Lord. What man is he that desires life, and 
loves to see good days? Keep your tongue from evil, and your lips from speaking 
guile. Depart from evil, and do good; seek peace, and pursue it. The eyes of the 
Lord are upon the righteous, and His ears are [open] to their prayers. The face 
of the Lord is against those who do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them 
from the earth. The righteous cried, and the Lord heard him, and delivered him 
out of all his troubles." "Many are the stripes [appointed for] the wicked; but 
mercy shall compass those about who hope in the Lord." 
CHAPTER 23 -- BE HUMBLE, AND BELIEVE THAT CHRIST WILL COME AGAIN. 
The all-merciful and beneficent Father has bowels [of compassion] towards 
those who fear Him, and kindly and lovingly bestows His favours upon those who 
come to Him with a simple mind. So let us not be double-minded; neither let our 
soul be lifted up on account of His exceedingly great and glorious gifts. Far 
from us be that which is written, "Wretched are they who are of a double mind, 
and of a doubting heart; who say, These things we have heard even in the times 
of our fathers; but, behold, we have grown old, and none of them has happened to 
us.." You foolish ones! compare yourselves to a tree: take [for instance] the 
vine. First of all, it sheds its leaves, then it buds, next it puts forth 
leaves, and then it flowers; after that comes the sour grape, and then follows 
the ripened fruit. You perceive how in a little time the fruit of a tree comes 
to maturity. Of a truth, soon and suddenly shall His will be accomplished, as 
the Scripture also bears witness, saying, "Speedily will He come, and will not 
tarry;" and, "The Lord shall suddenly come to His temple, even the Holy One, for 
whom you look." 
CHAPTER 24 -- GOD CONTINUALLY SHOWS US IN NATURE THAT THERE WILL BE A 
RESURRECTION. 
Let us consider, beloved, how the Lord continually proves to us that there 
shall be a future resurrection, of which He has rendered the Lord Jesus Christ 
the first-fruits by raising Him from the dead. Let us contemplate, beloved, the 
resurrection which is at all times taking place. Day and night declare to us a 
resurrection. The night sinks to sleep, and the day arises; the day [again] 
departs, and the night comes on. Let us behold the fruits [of the earth], how 
the sowing of grain takes place. The sower goes forth, and casts it into the 
ground; and the seed being thus scattered, though dry and naked when it fell 
upon the earth, is gradually dissolved. Then out of its dissolution the mighty 
power of the providence of the Lord raises it up again, and from one seed many 
arise and bring forth fruit. 
CHAPTER 25 -- THE PHOENIX AN EMBLEM OF OUR RESURRECTION. 
Let us consider that wonderful sign [of the resurrection] which takes place 
in Eastern lands, that is, in Arabia and the countries round about. There is a 
certain bird which is called a phoenix. This is the only one of its kind, and 
lives five hundred years. And when the time of its dissolution draws near that 
it must die, it builds itself a nest of frankincense, and myrrh, and other 
spices, into which, when the time is fulfilled, it enters and dies. But as the 
flesh decays a certain kind of worm is produced, which, being nourished by the 
juices of the dead bird, brings forth feathers. Then, when it has acquired 
strength, it takes up that nest in which are the bones of its parent, and 
bearing these it passes from the land of Arabia into Egypt, to the city called 
Heliopolis. And, in open day, flying in the sight of all men, it places them on 
the altar of the sun, and having done this, hastens back to its former abode. 
The priests then inspect the registers of the dates, and find that it has 
returned exactly as the five hundredth year was completed. 
CHAPTER 26 -- WE SHALL RISE AGAIN, THEN, AS THE SCRIPTURE ALSO TESTIFIES. 
Do we then deem it any great and wonderful thing for the Maker of all things 
to raise up again those who have piously served Him in the assurance of a good 
faith, when even by a bird He shows us the mightiness of His power to fulfil His 
promise? For [the Scripture] says in a certain place, "You shall raise me up, 
and I shall confess to You;" and again, "I laid down, and slept; I awaked, 
because You are with me;" and again, Job says, "you shall raise up this flesh of 
mine, which has suffered all these things." 
CHAPTER 27 -- IN THE HOPE OF THE RESURRECTION, LET US CLEAVE TO THE 
OMNIPOTENT AND OMNISCIENT GOD. 
Having then this hope, let our souls be bound to Him who is faithful in His 
promises, and just in His judgments. He who has commanded us not to lie, shall 
much more Himself not lie; for nothing is impossible with God, except to lie. 
Let His faith therefore be stirred up again within us, and let us consider that 
all things are nigh unto Him. By the word of His might He established all 
things, and by His word He can overthrow them. "Who shall say to Him, What have 
you done? or, Who shall resist the power of His strength?" When and as He 
pleases He will do all things, and none of the things determined by Him shall 
pass away? All things are open before Him, and nothing can be hidden from His 
counsel. "The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament shows His 
handy-work. Day to day utters speech, and night to night shows knowledge. And 
there are no words or speeches of which the voices are not heard." 
CHAPTER 28 -- GOD SEES ALL THINGS: THEREFORE LET US AVOID TRANSGRESSION. 
Since then all things are seen and heard [by God], let us fear Him, and 
forsake those wicked works which proceed from evil desires; so that, through His 
mercy, we may be protected from the judgments to come. For whither can any of us 
flee from His mighty hand? Or what world will receive any of those who run away 
from Him? For the Scripture says in a certain place, "Whither shall I go, and 
where shall I be hid from Your presence? If I ascend into heaven, You are there; 
if I go away even to the uttermost parts of the earth, there is Your right hand; 
if I make my bed in the abyss, there is Your Spirit." Whither, then, shall any 
one go, or where shall he escape from Him who comprehends all things? 
CHAPTER 29 -- LET US ALSO DRAW NEAR TO GOD IN PURITY OF HEART. 
Let us then draw near to Him with holiness of spirit, lifting up pure and 
undefiled hands to Him, loving our gracious and merciful Father, who has made us 
partakers in the blessings of His elect. For thus it is written, "When the Most 
High divided the nations, when He scattered the sons of Adam, He fixed the 
bounds of the nations according to the number of the angels of God. His people 
Jacob became the portion of the Lord, and Israel the lot of His inheritance." 
And in another place [the Scripture] says, "Behold, the Lord takes to Himself a 
nation out of the midst of the nations, as a man takes the first-fruits of his 
threshing-floor; and from that nation shall come forth the Most Holy. 
CHAPTER 30 -- LET US DO THOSE THINGS THAT PLEASE GOD, AND FLEE FROM THOSE HE 
HATES, THAT WE MAY BE BLESSED. 
Seeing, therefore, that we are the portion of the Holy One, let us do all 
those things which pertain to holiness, avoiding all evil-speaking, all 
abominable and impure embraces, together with all drunkenness, seeking after 
change, all abominable lusts, detestable adultery, and execrable pride. "For 
God," says [the Scripture], "resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble." 
Let us cleave, then, to those to whom grace has been given by God. Let us clothe 
ourselves with concord and humility, ever exercising self-control, standing far 
off from all whispering and evil-speaking, being justified by our works, and not 
our words. For [the Scripture] says, "He that speaks much, shall also hear much 
in answer. And does he that is ready in speech deem himself righteous? Blessed 
is he that is born of woman, who lives but a short time: be not given to much 
speaking." Let our praise be in God, and not of ourselves; for God hates those 
who commend themselves. Let testimony to our good deeds be borne by others, as 
it was in the case of our righteous forefathers. Boldness, and arrogance, and 
audacity belong to those that are accursed of God; but moderation, humility, and 
meekness to such as are blessed by Him. 
CHAPTER 31 -- LET US SEE BY WHAT MEANS WE MAY OBTAIN THE DIVINE BLESSING. 
Let us cleave then to His blessing, and consider what are the means of 
possessing it. Let us think over the things which have taken place from the 
beginning. For what reason was our father Abraham blessed? was it not because he 
wrought righteousness and truth through faith? Isaac, with perfect confidence, 
as if knowing what was to happen, cheerfully yielded himself as a sacrifice. 
Jacob, through reason of his brother, went forth with humility from his own 
land, and came to Laban and served him; and there was given to him the sceptre 
of the twelve tribes of Israel. 
CHAPTER 32 -- WE ARE JUSTIFIED NOT BY OUR OWN WORKS, BUT BY FAITH. 
Whosoever will candidly consider each particular, will recognise the 
greatness of the gifts which were given by him. For from him have sprung the 
priests and all the Levites who minister at the altar of God. From him also [was 
descended] our Lord Jesus Christ according to the flesh. From him [arose] kings, 
princes, and rulers of the race of Judah. Nor are his other tribes in small 
glory, inasmuch as God had promised, "Your seed shall be as the stars of 
heaven." All these, therefore, were highly honoured, and made great, not for 
their own sake, or for their own works, or for the righteousness which they 
wrought, but through the operation of His will. And we, too, being called by His 
will in Christ Jesus, are not justified by ourselves, nor by our own wisdom, or 
understanding, or godliness, or works which we have wrought in holiness of 
heart; but by that faith through which, from the beginning, Almighty God has 
justified all men; to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. 
CHAPTER 33 -- BUT LET US NOT OWE UP THE PRACTICE OF GOOD WORKS AND LOVE. GOD 
HIMSELF IS AN EXAMPLE TO US OF GOOD WORKS. 
What shall we do, then, brethren? Shall we become slothful in well-doing, and 
cease from the practice of love? God forbid that any such course should be 
followed by us! But rather let us hasten with all energy and readiness of mind 
to perform every good work. For the Creator and Lord of all Himself rejoices in 
His works. For by His infinitely great power He established the heavens, and by 
His incomprehensible wisdom He adorned them. He also divided the earth from the 
water which surrounds it, and fixed it upon the immoveable foundation of His own 
will. The animals also which are upon it He commanded by His own word into 
existence. So likewise, when He had formed the sea, and the living creatures 
which are in it, He enclosed them [within their proper bounds] by His own power. 
Above all, with His holy and undefiled hands He formed man, the most excellent 
[of His creatures], and truly great through the understanding given him -- the 
express likeness of His own image. For thus says God: "Let us make man in Our 
image, and after Our likeness. So God made man; male and female He created 
them." Having thus finished all these things, He approved them, and blessed 
them, and said, "Increase and multiply." We see, then, how all righteous men 
have been adorned with good works, and how the Lord Himself, adorning Himself 
with His works, rejoiced. Having therefore such an example, let us without delay 
accede to His will, and let us work the work of righteousness with our whole 
strength. 
CHAPTER 34 -- GREAT IS THE REWARD OF GOOD WORKS WITH GOD. JOINED TOGETHER IN 
HARMONY, LET US IMPLORE THAT REWARD FROM HIM. 
The good servant receives the bread of his labour with confidence; the lazy 
and slothful cannot look his employer in the face. It is requisite, therefore, 
that we be prompt in the practice of well-doing; for of Him are all things. And 
thus He forewarns us: "Behold, the Lord [cometh], and His reward is before His 
face, to render to every man according to his work." He exhorts us, therefore, 
with our whole heart to attend to this, that we be not lazy or slothful in any 
good work. Let our boasting and our confidence be in Him. Let us submit 
ourselves to His will. Let us consider the whole multitude of His angels, how 
they stand ever ready to minister to His will. For the Scripture says, "Ten 
thousand times ten thousand stood around Him, and thousands of thousands 
ministered to Him, and cried, Holy, holy, holy, the Lord of Sabaoth; the whole 
creation is full of His glory." And let us therefore, conscientiously gathering 
together in harmony, cry to Him earnestly, as with one mouth, that we may be 
made partakers of His great and glorious promises. For [the Scripture] says, 
"Eye has not seen, nor ear heard, neither has it entered into the heart of man, 
the things which He has prepared for those who wait for Him." 
CHAPTER 35 -- IMMENSE IS THIS REWARD. HOW SHALL WE OBTAIN IT? 
How blessed and wonderful, beloved, are the gifts of God! Life in 
immortality, splendour in righteousness, truth in perfect confidence, faith in 
assurance, self-control in holiness! And all these fall under the cognizance of 
our understandings [now]; what then shall those things be which are prepared for 
such as wait for Him? The Creator and Father of all worlds, the Most Holy, alone 
knows their amount and their beauty. Let us therefore earnestly strive to be 
found in the number of those who wait for Him, in order that we may share in His 
promised gifts. But how, beloved, shall this be done? If our understanding be 
fixed by faith rewards God; if we earnestly seek the things which are pleasing 
and acceptable to Him; if we do the things which are in harmony with His 
blameless will; and if we follow the way of truth, casting away from us all 
unrighteousness and iniquity, along with all covetousness, strife, evil 
practices, deceit, whispering, and evil-speaking, all hatred of God, pride and 
haughtiness, vainglory and ambition. For they that do such things are hateful to 
God; and not only they that do them, but also those who take pleasure in those 
who do them. For the Scripture says, "But to the sinner God said, Why do you 
declare my statutes, and take my covenant into your mouth, seeing you hate 
instruction, and cast my words behind you? When you saw a thief, you consented 
with him, and made your portion with adulterers. Your mouth has abounded with 
wickedness, and your tongue contrived deceit. You sit, and speak against your 
brother; you slander your own mother's son. These things you have done, and I 
kept silence; you thought, wicked one, that I should be like you. But I will 
reprove you, and set yourself before you. Consider now these things, you who 
forget God, lest He tear you in pieces, like a lion, and there be none to 
deliver. The sacrifice of praise will glorify Me, and a way is there by which I 
will show him the salvation of God." 
CHAPTER 36 -- ALL BLESSINGS ARE GIVEN TO US THROUGH CHRIST. 
This is the way, beloved, in which we find our Saviour, even Jesus Christ, 
the High Priest of all our offerings, the defender and helper of our infirmity. 
By Him we look up to the heights of heaven. By Him we behold, as in a glass, His 
immaculate and most excellent visage. By Him are the eyes of our hearts opened. 
By Him our foolish and darkened understanding blossoms up anew towards His 
marvellous light. By Him the Lord has willed that we should taste of immortal 
knowledge, "who, being the brightness of His majesty, is by so much greater than 
the angels, as He has by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they." 
For it is thus written, "Who makes His angels spirits, and His ministers a flame 
of fire." But concerning His Son the Lord spoke thus: "You are my Son, today 
have I begotten You. Ask of Me, and I will give You the heathen for Your 
inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for Your possession." And 
again He says to Him, "Sit at My right hand, until I make Your enemies Your 
footstool." But who are His enemies? All the wicked, and those who set 
themselves to oppose the will of God. 
CHAPTER 37 -- CHRIST IS OUR LEADER, AND WE HIS SOLDIERS. 
Let us then, men and brethren, with all energy act the part of soldiers, in 
accordance with His holy commandments. Let us consider those who serve under our 
generals, with what order, obedience, and submissiveness they perform the things 
which are commanded them. All are not prefects, nor commanders of a thousand, 
nor of a hundred, nor of fifty, nor the like, but each one in his own rank 
performs the things commanded by the king and the generals. The great cannot 
subsist without the small, nor the small without the great. There is a kind of 
mixture in all things, and thence arises mutual advantage. Let us take our body 
for an example. The head is nothing without the feet, and the feet are nothing 
without the head; yea, the very smallest members of our body are necessary and 
useful to the whole body. But all work harmoniously together, and are under one 
common rule for the preservation of the whole body. 
CHAPTER 38 -- LET THE MEMBERS OF THE CHURCH SUBMIT THEMSELVES, AND NO ONE 
EXALT HIMSELF ABOVE ANOTHER. 
Let our whole body, then, be preserved in, Christ Jesus; and let every one be 
subject to his neighbour, according to the special gift bestowed upon him. Let 
the strong not despise the weak, and let the weak show respect to the strong. 
Let the rich man provide for the wants of the poor; and let the poor man bless 
God, because He has given him one by whom his need may be supplied. Let the wise 
man display his wisdom, not by [mere] words, but through good deeds. Let the 
humble not bear testimony to himself, but leave witness to be borne to him by 
another. Let him that is pure in the flesh not grow proud of it, and boast, 
knowing that it was another who bestowed on him the gift of continence. Let us 
consider, then, brethren, of what matter we were made, -- who and what manner of 
beings we came into the world, as it were out of a sepulchre, and from utter 
darkness. He who made us and fashioned us, having prepared His bountiful gifts 
for us before we were born, introduced us into His world. Since, therefore, we 
receive all these things from Him, we ought for everything to give Him thanks; 
to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. 
CHAPTER 39 -- THERE IS NO REASON FOR SELF-CONCEIT. 
Foolish and inconsiderate men, who have neither wisdom nor instruction, mock 
and deride us, being eager to exalt themselves in their own conceits. For what 
can a mortal man do? or what strength is there in one made out of the dust? For 
it is written, "There was no shape before mine eyes, only I heard a sound, and a 
voice [saying], What then? Shall a man be pure before the Lord? or shall such an 
one be [counted] blameless in his deeds, seeing He does not confide in His 
servants, and has charged even His angels with perversity? The heaven is not 
clean in His sight: how much less they that dwell in houses of clay, of which 
also we ourselves were made! He smote them as a moth; and from morning even 
until evening they endure not. Because they could furnish no assistance to 
themselves, they perished. He breathed upon them, and they died, because they 
had no wisdom. But call now, if any one will answer you, or if you will look to 
any of the holy angels; for wrath destroys the foolish man, and envy kills him 
that is in error. I have seen the foolish taking root, but their habitation was 
presently consumed. Let their sons be far from safety; let them be despised 
before the gates of those less than themselves, and there shall be none to 
deliver. For what was prepared for them, the righteous shall eat; and they shall 
not be delivered from evil." 
CHAPTER 40 -- LET US PRESERVE IN THE CHURCH THE ORDER APPOINTED BY GOD. 
These things therefore being manifest to us, and since we look into the 
depths of the divine knowledge, it behoves us to do all things in [their proper] 
order, which the Lord has commanded us to perform at stated times. He has 
enjoined offerings [to be presented] and service to be performed [to Him], and 
that not thoughtlessly or irregularly, but at the appointed times and hours. 
Where and by whom He desires these things to be done, He Himself has fixed by 
His own supreme will, in order that all things being piously done according to 
His good pleasure, may be acceptable to Him. Those, therefore, who present their 
offerings at the appointed times, are accepted and blessed; for inasmuch as they 
follow the laws of the Lord, they sin not. For his own peculiar services are 
assigned to the high priest, and their own proper place is prescribed to the 
priests, and their own special ministrations devolve on the Levites. The layman 
is bound by the laws that pertain to laymen. 
CHAPTER 41 -- CONTINUATION OF THE SAME SUBJECT. 
Let every one of you, brethren, give thanks to God in his own order, living 
in all good conscience, with becoming gravity, and not going beyond the rule of 
the ministry prescribed to him. Not in every place, brethren, are the daily 
sacrifices offered, or the peace-offerings, or the sin-offerings and the 
trespass-offerings, but in Jerusalem only. And even there they are not offered 
in any place, but only at the altar before the temple, that which is offered 
being first carefully examined by the high priest and the ministers already 
mentioned. Those, therefore, who do anything beyond that which is agreeable to 
His will, are punished with death. You see, brethren, that the greater the 
knowledge that has been vouchsafed to us, the greater also is the danger to 
which we are exposed. 
CHAPTER 42 -- THE ORDER OF MINISTERS IN THE CHURCH. 
The apostles have preached the Gospel to us from the Lord Jesus Christ; Jesus 
Christ [has done sol from God. Christ therefore was sent forth by God, and the 
apostles by Christ. Both these appointments, then, were made in an orderly way, 
according to the will of God. Having therefore received their orders, and being 
fully assured by the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, and established in 
the word of God, with full assurance of the Holy Ghost, they went forth 
proclaiming that the kingdom of God was at hand. And thus preaching through 
countries and cities, they appointed the first-fruits [of their labours], having 
first proved them by the Spirit, to be bishops and deacons of those who should 
afterwards believe. Nor was this any new thing, since indeed many ages before it 
was written concerning bishops and deacons. For thus says the Scripture a 
certain place, "I will appoint their bishops s in righteousness, and their 
deacons in faith." 
CHAPTER 42 -- MOSES OF OLD STILLED THE CONTENTION WHICH AROSE CONCERNING THE 
PRIESTLY DIGNITY. 
And what wonder is it if those in Christ who were entrusted with such a duty 
by God, appointed those [ministers] before mentioned, when the blessed Moses 
also, "a faithful servant in all his house," noted down in the sacred books all 
the injunctions which were given him, and when the other prophets also followed 
him, bearing witness with one consent to the ordinances which he had appointed? 
For, when rivalry arose concerning the priesthood, and the tribes were 
contending among themselves as to which of them should be adorned with that 
glorious title, he commanded the twelve princes of the tribes to bring him their 
rods, each one being inscribed with the name of the tribe. And he took them and 
bound them [together], and sealed them with the rings of the princes of the 
tribes, and laid them up in the tabernacle of witness on the table of God. And 
having shut the doors of the tabernacle, he sealed the keys, as he had done the 
rods, and said to them, Men and brethren, the tribe whose rod shall blossom has 
God chosen to fulfil the office of the priesthood, and to minister to Him. And 
when the morning was come, he assembled all Israel, six hundred thousand men, 
and showed the seals to the princes of the tribes, and opened the tabernacle of 
witness, and brought forth the rods. And the rod of Aaron was found not only to 
have blossomed, but to bear fruit upon it. What think you, beloved? Did not 
Moses know beforehand that this would happen? Undoubtedly he knew; but he acted 
thus, that there might be no sedition in Israel, and that the name of the true 
and only God might be glorified; to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. 
CHAPTER 44 -- THE ORDINANCES OF THE APOSTLES, THAT THERE MIGHT BE NO 
CONTENTION RESPECTING THE PRIESTLY OFFICE. 
Our apostles also knew, through our Lord Jesus Christ, and there would be 
strife on account of the office of the episcopate. For this reason, therefore, 
inasmuch as they had obtained a perfect fore-knowledge of this, they appointed 
those [ministers] already mentioned, and afterwards gave instructions, that when 
these should fall asleep, other approved men should succeed them in their 
ministry. We are of opinion, therefore, that those appointed by them, or 
afterwards by other eminent men, with the consent of the whole Church, and who 
have blame-lessly served the flock of Christ in a humble, peaceable, and 
disinterested spirit, and have for a long time possessed the good opinion of 
all, cannot be justly dismissed from the ministry. For our sin will not be 
small, if we eject from the episcopate those who have blamelessly and holily 
fulfilled its duties. Blessed are those presbyters who, having finished their 
course before now, have obtained a fruitful and perfect departure [from this 
world]; for they have no fear lest any one deprive them of the place now 
appointed them. But we see that you have removed some men of excellent behaviour 
from the ministry, which they fulfilled blamelessly and with honour. 
CHAPTER 45 -- IT IS THE PART OF THE WICKED TO VEX THE RIGHTEOUS. 
Ye are fond of contention, brethren, and full of zeal about things which do 
not pertain to salvation. Look carefully into the Scriptures, which are the true 
utterances of the Holy Spirit. Observe that nothing of an unjust or counterfeit 
character is written in them. There you will not find that the righteous were 
cast off by men who themselves were holy. The righteous were indeed persecuted, 
but only by the wicked. They were cast into prison, but only by the unholy; they 
were stoned, but only by transgressors; they were slain, but only by the 
accursed, and such as had conceived an unrighteous envy against them. Exposed to 
such sufferings, they endured them gloriously. For what shall we say, brethren? 
Was Daniel s cast into the den of lions by such as feared God? Were Ananias, and 
Azarias, and Mishael shut up in a furnace of fire by those who observed the 
great and glorious worship of the Most High? Far from us be such a thought! Who, 
then, were they that did such things? The hateful, and those full of all 
wickedness, were roused to such a pitch of fury, that they inflicted torture on 
those who served God with a holy and blameless purpose [of heart], not knowing 
that the Most High is the Defender and Protector of all such as with a pure 
conscience venerate" His all-excellent name; to whom be glory for ever and ever. 
Amen. But they who with confidence endured [these things] are now heirs of glory 
and honour, and have been exalted and made illustrious by God in their memorial 
for ever and ever. Amen. 
CHAPTER 46 -- LET US CLEAVE TO THE RIGHTEOUS: YOUR STRIFE IS PERNICIOUS. 
Such examples, therefore, brethren, it is right that we should follow; since 
it is written, "Cleave to the holy, for those who cleave to them shall 
[themselves] be made holy." And again, in another place, [the Scripture] says, 
"With a harmless man you shall prove thyself harmless, and with an elect man you 
shall be elect, and with a perverse man you shall show thyself perverse." Let us 
cleave, therefore, to the innocent and righteous, since these are the elect of 
God. Why are there strifes, and tumults, and divisions, and schisms, and wars 
among you? Have we not [all] one God and one Christ? Is there not one Spirit of 
grace poured out upon us? And have we not one calling in Christ? Why do we 
divide and tear to pieces the members of Christ, and raise up strife against our 
own body, and have reached such a height of madness as to forget that "we are 
members one of another?" Remember the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, how He 
said, "Woe to that man [by whom offences come]! It were better for him that he 
had never been born, than that he should cast a stumbling-block before one of my 
elect. Yea, it were better for him that a millstone should be hung about [his 
neck], and he should be sunk in the depths of the sea, than that he should cast 
a stumbling-block before one of my little ones. Your schism has subverted [the 
faith of] many, has discouraged many, has given rise to doubt in many, and has 
caused grief to us all. And still your sedition continues. 
CHAPTER 47 -- YOUR RECENT DISCORD IS WORSE THAN THE FORMER WHICH TOOK PLACE 
IN THE TIMES OF PAUL. 
Take up the epistle of the blessed Apostle Paul. What did he write to you at 
the time when the Gospel first began to be preached? Truly, under the 
inspiration of the Spirit, he wrote to you concerning himself, and Cephas, and 
Apollos, because even then parties had been formed among you. But that 
inclination for one above another entailed less guilt upon you, inasmuch as your 
partialities were then shown towards apostles, already of high reputation, and 
towards a man whom they had approved. But now reflect who those are that have 
perverted you, and lessened the renown of your far-famed brotherly love. It is 
disgraceful, beloved, yea, highly disgraceful, and unworthy of your Christian 
profession, that such a thing should be heard of as that the most steadfast and 
ancient Church of the Corinthians should, on account of one or two persons, 
engage in sedition against its presbyters. And this rumour has reached not only 
us, but those also who are unconnected with us; so that, through your 
infatuation, the name of the Lord is blasphemed, while danger is also brought 
upon yourselves. 
CHAPTER 48 -- LET US RETURN TO THE PRACTICE OF BROTHERLY LOVE. 
Let us therefore, with all haste, put an end s to this [state of things]; and 
let us fall down before the Lord, and beseech Him with tears, that He would 
mercifully be reconciled to us, and restore us to our former seemly and holy 
practice of brotherly love. For [such conduct] is the gate of righteousness, 
which is set open for the attainment of life, as it is written, "Open to me the 
gates of righteousness; I will go in by them, and will praise the Lord: this is 
the gate of the Lord: the righteous shall enter in by it." Although, therefore, 
many gates have been set open, yet this gate of righteousness is that gate in 
Christ by which blessed are all they that have entered in and have directed 
their way in holiness and righteousness, doing all things without disorder. Let 
a man be faithful: let him be powerful in the utterance of knowledge; let him be 
wise in judging of words; let him be pure in all his deeds; yet the more he 
seems to be superior to others [in these respects], the more humble-minded ought 
he to be, and to seek the common good of all, and not merely his own advantage. 
CHAPTER 49 -- THE PRAISE OF LOVE. 
Let him who has love in Christ keep the commandments of Christ. Who can 
describe the [blessed] bond of the love of God? What man is able to tell the 
excellence of its beauty, as it ought to be told? The height to which love 
exalts is unspeakable. Love unites us to God. Love covers a multitude of sins. 
Love bears all things, is long-suffering in all things. There is nothing base, 
nothing arrogant in love. Love admits of no schisms: love gives rise to no 
seditions: love does all things in harmony. By love have all the elect of God 
been made perfect; without love nothing is well-pleasing to God. In love has the 
Lord taken us to Himself. On account of the Love he bore us, Jesus Christ our 
Lord gave His blood for us by the will of God; His flesh for our flesh, and His 
soul for our souls. 
CHAPTER 50 -- LET US PRAY TO BE THOUGHT WORTHY OF LOVE. 
Ye see, beloved, how great and wonderful a thing is love, and that there is 
no declaring its perfection. Who is fit to be found in it, except such as God 
has vouchsafed to render so? Let us pray, therefore, and implore of His mercy, 
that we may live blameless in love, free from all human partialities for one 
above another. All the generations from Adam even to this day have passed away; 
but those who, through the grace of God, have been made perfect in love, now 
possess a place among the godly, and shall be made manifest at the revelation of 
the kingdom of Christ. For it is written, "Enter into thy secret chambers for a 
little time, until my wrath and fury pass away; and I will remember a propitious 
day, and will raise you up out of your graves." Blessed are we, beloved, if we 
keep the commandments of God in the harmony of love; that so through love our 
sins may be forgiven us. For it is written, "Blessed are they whose 
transgressions are forgiven, and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man 
whose sin the Lord will not impute to him, and in whose mouth there is no 
guile." This blessedness comes upon those who have been chosen by God through 
Jesus Christ our Lord; to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. 
CHAPTER 51 -- LET THE PARTAKERS IN STRIFE ACKNOWLEDGE THEIR SINS. 
Let us therefore implore forgiveness for all those transgressions which 
through any [suggestion] of the adversary we have committed. And those who have 
been the leaders of sedition and disagreement ought to have respect to the 
common hope. For such as live in fear and love would rather that they themselves 
than their neighbours should be involved in suffering. And they prefer to bear 
blame themselves, rather than that the concord which has been well and piously 
handed down to us should suffer. For it is better that a man should acknowledge 
his transgressions than that he should harden his heart, as the hearts of those 
were hardened who stirred up sedition against Moses the servant of God, and 
whose condemnation was made manifest [to all]. For they went down alive into 
Hades, and death swallowed them up. Pharaoh with his army and all the princes of 
Egypt, and the chariots with their riders, were sunk in the depths of the Red 
Sea, and perished, for no other reason than that their foolish hearts were 
hardened, after so many signs and wonders had been wrought in the land of Egypt 
by Moses the servant of God. 
CHAPTER 52 -- SUCH A CONFESSION IS PLEASING TO GOD. 
The Lord, brethren, stands in need of nothing; and He desires nothing of any 
one, except that confession be made to Him. For, says the elect David, "I will 
confess to the Lord; and that will please Him more than a young bullock that has 
horns and hoofs. Let the poor see it, and be glad." And again he says, "Offer to 
God the sacrifice of praise, and pay your vows to the Most High. And call upon 
Me in the day of your trouble: I will deliver you, and you shall glorify Me." 
For "the sacrifice of God is a broken spirit." 
CHAPTER 53 -- THE LOVE OF MOSES TOWARDS HIS PEOPLE. 
Ye understand, beloved, you understand well the Sacred Scriptures, and you 
have looked very earnestly into the oracles of God. Call then these things to 
your remembrance. When Moses went up into the mount, and abode there, with 
fasting and humiliation, forty days and forty nights, the Lord said to him, 
"Moses, Moses, get down quickly from here; for your people whom you brought out 
of the land of Egypt have committed iniquity. They have quickly departed from 
the way in which I commanded them to walk, and have made to themselves molten 
images." And the Lord said to him, "I have spoken to you once and again, saying, 
I have seen this people, and, behold, it is a stiff-necked people: let Me 
destroy them, and blot out their name from under heaven; and I will make you a 
great and wonderful nation, and one much more numerous than this." But Moses 
said, "Far be it from You, Lord: pardon the sin of this people; else blot me 
also out of the book of the living." O marvellous love! O insuperable 
perfection! The servant speaks freely to his Lord, and asks forgiveness for the 
people, or begs that he himself might perish along with them. 
CHAPTER 54 -- HE WHO IS FULL OF LOVE WILL INCUR EVERY LOSS, THAT PEACE MAY BE 
RESTORED TO THE CHURCH. 
Who then among you is noble-minded? who compassionate? who full of love? Let 
him declare, "If on my account sedition and disagreement and schisms have 
arisen, I will depart, I will go away whithersoever you desire, and I will do 
whatever the majority commands; only let the flock of Christ live on terms of 
peace with the presbyters set over it." He that acts thus shall procure to 
himself great glory in the Lord; and every place will welcome him. For "the 
earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof." These things they who live a 
godly life, that is never to be repented of, both have done and always will do. 
CHAPTER 55 -- EXAMPLES OF SUCH LOVE. 
To bring forward some examples from among the heathen: Many kings and 
princes, in times of pestilence, when they had been instructed by an oracle, 
have given themselves up to death, in order that by their own blood they might 
deliver their fellow-citizens [from destruction]. Many have gone forth from 
their own cities, that so sedition might be brought to an end within them. We 
know many among ourselves who have given themselves up to bonds, in order that 
they might ransom others. Many, too, have surrendered themselves to slavery, 
that with the price which they received for themselves, they might provide food 
for others. Many women also, being strengthened by the grace of God, have 
performed numerous manly exploits. The blessed Judith, when her city was 
besieged, asked of the elders permission to go forth into the camp of the 
strangers; and, exposing herself to danger, she went out for the love which she 
bare to her country and people then besieged; and the Lord delivered Holofernes 
into the hands of a woman. Esther also, being perfect in faith, exposed herself 
to no less danger, in order to deliver the twelve tribes of Israel from 
impending destruction. For with fasting and humiliation she entreated the 
everlasting God, who sees all things; and He, perceiving the humility of her 
spirit, delivered the people for whose sake she had encountered peril. 
CHAPTER 56 -- LET US ADMONISH AND CORRECT ONE ANOTHER. 
Let us then also pray for those who have fallen into any sin, that meekness 
and humility may be given to them, so that they may submit, not to us, but to 
the will of God. For in this way they shall secure a fruitful and perfect 
remembrance from us, with sympathy for them, both in our prayers to God, and our 
mention of them to the saints. Let us receive correction, beloved, on account of 
which no one should feel displeased. Those exhortations by which we admonish one 
another are both good [in themselves] and highly profitable, for they tend to 
unite us to the will of God. For thus says the holy Word: "The Lord has severely 
chastened me, yet has not given me over to death." "For whom the Lord loves He 
chastens, and scourges every son whom He receives." "The righteous," it says, 
"shall chasten me in mercy, and reprove me; but let not the oil of sinners make 
fat my head." And again he says, "Blessed is the man whom the Lord reproves, and 
reject not the warning of the Almighty. For He causes sorrow, and again restores 
[to gladness]; He wounds, and His hands make whole. He shall deliver you in six 
troubles, yea, in the seventh no evil shall touch you. In famine He shall rescue 
you from death, and in war He shall free you from the power of the sword. From 
the scourge of the tongue will He hide you, and you shall not fear when evil 
comes. you shall hugh at the unrighteous and the wicked, and shall not be afraid 
of the beasts of the field. For the wild beasts shall be at peace with you: then 
shall you know that your house shall be in peace, and the habitation of your 
tabernacle shall not fail? You shall know also that your seed shall be great, 
and your children like the grass of the field. And you shall come to the grave 
like ripened corn which is reaped in its season, or like a heap of the 
threshing-floor which is gathered together at the proper time." You see, 
beloved, that protection is afforded to those who are chastened of the Lord; for 
since God is good, He corrects us, that we may be admonished by His holy 
chastisement. 
CHAPTER 57 -- LET THE AUTHORS OF SEDITION SUBMIT THEMSELVES. 
Ye therefore, who laid the foundation of this sedition, submit yourselves to 
the presbyters, and receive correction so as to repent, bending the knees of 
your hearts. Learn to be subject, laying aside the proud and arrogant 
self-confidence of your tongue. For it is better for you that you should occupy 
a humble but honourable place in the flock of Christ, than that, being highly 
exalted, you should be cast out from the hope of His people. For thus speaks 
all-virtuous Wisdom: "Behold, I will bring forth to you the words of My Spirit, 
and I will teach you My speech. Since I called, and you did not hear; I held 
forth My words, and you regarded not, but set at naught My counsels, and yielded 
not at My reproofs; therefore I too will laugh at your destruction; yea, I will 
rejoice when ruin comes upon you, and when sudden confusion overtakes you, when 
overturning presents itself like a tempest, or when tribulation and oppression 
fall upon you. For it shall come to pass, that when you call upon Me, I will not 
hear you; the wicked shall seek Me, and they shall not find Me. For they hated 
wisdom, and did not choose the fear of the Lord; nor would they listen to My 
counsels, but despised My reproofs. So they shall eat the fruits of their own 
way, and they shall be filled with their own ungodliness." . . . 
CHAPTER 58 -- BLESSINGS SOUGHT FOR ALL THAT CALL UPON GOD. 
May God, who sees all things, and who is the Ruler of all spirits and the 
Lord of all flesh -- who chose our Lord Jesus Christ and us through Him to be a 
peculiar people -- grant to every soul that calls upon His glorious and holy 
Name, faith, fear, peace, patience, long-suffering, self-control, purity, and 
sobriety, to the well-pleasing of His Name, through our High Priest and 
Protector, Jesus Christ, by whom be to Him glory, and majesty, and power, and 
honour, both now and for evermore. Amen. 
CHAPTER 59 -- THE CORINTHIANS ARE EXHORTED SPEEDILY TO SEND BACK WORD THAT 
PEACE HAS BEEN RESTORED. THE BENEDICTION. 
Send back speedily to us in peace and with joy these our messengers to you: 
Claudius Ephebus and Valerius Bito, with Fortunatus: that they may the sooner 
announce to us the peace and harmony we so earnestly desire and long for [among 
you], and that we may the more quickly rejoice over the good order 
re-established among you. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you, and 
with all everywhere that are the called of God through Him, by whom be to Him 
glory, honour, power, majesty, and eternal dominion, from everlasting to 
everlasting. Amen. 

