
First Clement












CLEMENT OF ROME, First Epistle

THE FIRST EPISTLE OF CLEMENT TO THE CORINTHIANS
translated by Charles H. Hoole, 1885
CHAPTER 0 
0:1 The Church of God which sojourneth at Rome, to the Church of God which 
sojourneth at Corinth, to them that are called and sanctified in the will of God 
through our Lord Jesus Christ: Grace and peace be multiplied unto you from 
Almighty God through Jesus Christ. 
CHAPTER 1 
1:1 On account of the sudden and repeated calamities and mischances, 
brethren, that have come upon us, we suppose that we have the more slowly given 
heed to the things that are disputed among you, beloved, and to the foul and 
unholy sedition, alien and foreign to the elect of God, which a few headstrong 
and self-willed persons have kindled to such a degree of madness, that your 
venerable and famous name, worthy to be loved of all men, is greatly blasphemed. 

1:2 For who that hath tarried among you hath not approved your most virtuous 
and firm faith, hath not admired your sober and seemly piety in Christ, hath not 
proclaimed your splendid disposition of hospitality, hath not deemed blessed 
your perfect and unerring knowledge? 
1:3 For ye did all things without respect of persons, and walked in the laws 
of God, submitting yourselves to them that have the rule over you, and giving 
the due honour to the presbyters that are among you. Young men ye enjoined to 
think such things as be sober and grave. Women ye exhorted to perform all things 
in a blameless and honourable and pure conscience, loving dutifully their own 
husbands; and ye taught them to manage the affairs of their houses with gravity, 
keeping in the rule of obedience, being temperate in all things. 
CHAPTER 2 
2:1 And ye were all humble, boasting of nothing, submitting yourselves rather 
than subjecting others, more gladly giving than receiving, content with the 
provision that God had given you; and attending diligently to his words, ye 
received them into your very hearts, and his sufferings were before your eyes. 
2:2 Thus a deep and rich peace was given to all, and an insatiable longing 
for doing good, and a plentiful outpouring of the Holy Spirit was upon all of 
you. 
2:3 And ye, being filled with a holy desire, with excellent zeal and pious 
confidence, stretched out your arms to Almighty God, beseeching him to be 
merciful unto you, if ye had in anything unwillingly done amiss. 
2:4 Ye contended day and night for the whole brotherhood, that in his mercy 
and good pleasure the number of his elect might be saved. 
2:5 Ye were simple and sincere without malice one toward another: 
2:6 all sedition and all schism were abominable unto you. Ye grieved over the 
transgressions of your neighbour, judging his short-comings your own. 
2:7 Ye repented not of any well-doing, being ready to every good work; 
2:8 and being adorned with a very virtuous and holy habit of life, ye did all 
things in his fear. The commandments and ordinances of the Lord were written on 
the breadth of your heart. 
CHAPTER 3 
3:1 All honour and enlargement was given to you, and then was fulfilled that 
which is written: -- The beloved ate and drank, and was enlarged and grew fat 
and kicked. 
3:2 From this came emulation and envy, strife and sedition, persecution and 
disorder, war and captivity. 
3:3 Thus the mean men were lifted up against the honourable; those of no 
repute against those of good repute; the foolish against the wise; the young 
against the elder. 
3:4 Through this justice and peace are afar off, because each of you leaveth 
off the fear of God and is dimsighted in his faith, nor walketh in the laws of 
his commandments, nor behaveth as becometh a citizen of Christ; but each walketh 
according to his own evil lusts, having taken up unjust and unholy envy, by 
which also death entered into the world. 
CHAPTER 4 
4:1 For it is thus written: And it came to pass after certain days, that Cain 
brought of the fruits of the ground a sacrifice to God, and Abel brought also of 
the firstlings of the sheep and of their fat. 
4:2 And God had respect unto Abel and unto his gifts; but unto Cain and his 
gifts he had no regard. 
4:3 And Cain was grieved greatly, and his countenance fell. 
4:4 And God said unto Cain, Why art thou very sorrowful, and why hath thy 
countenance fallen? If thou hast rightly offered, but hast not rightly divided, 
hast thou not sinned? 
4:5 Hold thy peace; thy gift returneth unto thee, and thou shalt be master 
over it. 
4:6 And Cain said unto Abel, Let us pass over into the field. And it came to 
pass while they were in the field, Cain rose up against Abel his brother and 
slew him. 
4:7 Ye see, brethren, jealousy and envy wrought the slaughter of a brother. 
4:8 Through envy our father Jacob fled from the face of his brother Esau. 
4:9 Envy caused Joseph to be persecuted unto death, and to enter into 
bondage. 
4:10 Envy compelled Moses to flee from the face of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, 
because he heard his countryman say, Who made thee a judge or a decider over us? 
Wilt thou kill me, as thou didst the Egyptian yesterday? 
4:11 Through envy Aaron and Miriam pitched their tents without the camp. 
4:12 Envy brought down Dathan and Abiram alive to the grave, because they 
contended against Moses, the servant of God. 
4:13 Through envy David suffered jealousy not only of foreigners, but was 
persecuted also by Saul, king of Israel. 
CHAPTER 5 
5:1 But let us pass from ancient examples, and come unto those who have in 
the times nearest to us, wrestled for the faith. 
5:2 Let us take the noble examples of our own generation. Through jealousy 
and envy the greatest and most just pillars of the Church were persecuted, and 
came even unto death. 
5:3 Let us place before our eyes the good Apostles. 
5:4 Peter, through unjust envy, endured not one or two but many labours, and 
at last, having delivered his testimony, departed unto the place of glory due to 
him. 
5:5 Through envy Paul, too, showed by example the prize that is given to 
patience: 
5:6 seven times was he cast into chains; he was banished; he was stoned; 
having become a herald, both in the East and in the West, he obtained the noble 
renown due to his faith; 
5:7 and having preached righteousness to the whole world, and having come to 
the extremity of the West, and having borne witness before rulers, he departed 
at length out of the world, and went to the holy place, having become the 
greatest example of patience. 
CHAPTER 6 
6:1 To these men, who walked in holiness, there was gathered a great 
multitude of the elect, who, having suffered, through envy, many insults and 
tortures, became a most excellent example among us. 
6:2 Through envy women were persecuted, even the Danaides and Dircae, who, 
after enduring dreadful and unholy insults, attained to the sure course of the 
faith; and they who were weak in body received a noble reward. 
6:3 Envy hath estranged the minds of wives from their husbands, and changed 
the saying of our father Adam: This is now bone of my bone, and flesh of my 
flesh. 
6:4 Envy and strife have overthrown mighty cities and rooted out great 
nations. 
CHAPTER 7 
7:1 These things we enjoin you, beloved, not only by way of admonition to 
you, but as putting ourselves also in mind. For we are in the same arena, and 
the same contest is imposed upon us. 
7:2 Wherefore, let us leave empty and vain thoughts, and come unto the 
glorious and venerable rule of our holy calling. 
7:3 Let us consider what is good and pleasing and acceptable before him who 
made us. 
7:4 Let us look steadfastly to the blood of Christ, and see how precious in 
the sight of God is his blood, which having been poured out for our salvation, 
brought to the whole world the grace of repentance. 
7:5 Let us go back to all generations, and learn that in every generation God 
hath granted a place for repentance to such as wished to return unto him. 
7:6 Noah preached repentance, and as many as hearkened unto him were saved. 
7:7 Jonah prophesied destruction to the Ninevites, and they, repenting of 
their sins, appeased God through prayer, and, though alien from God, obtained 
salvation. 
CHAPTER 8 
8:1 The ministers of the grace of God spake by the Holy Spirit concerning 
repentance; 
8:2 and the Lord of all himself spake concerning repentance with an oath. As 
I live, saith the Lord, I desire not the death of a sinner, as I desire his 
repentance; adding thereto an excellent saying: 
8:3 Repent, O house of Israel, from your iniquity: Say unto the sons of my 
people, Though your sins reach from earth to heaven, and though they be redder 
than scarlet, and blacker than sackcloth, and ye turn unto me with your whole 
heart and say, My father, I will hearken unto you as to an holy people. 
8:4 And in another place he speaketh in this wise: Wash, and be ye clean; 
take away the wickedness from your souls from before my eyes; cease from your 
evil deeds, learn to do well; seek judgment; deliver him that is oppressed; give 
judgment for the orphan, and justify the widow; and come and let us reason 
together, saith he; and though your sins be as purple, I will make them white as 
snow; and though they be as scarlet, I will make them white as wool. And if ye 
be willing and hearken unto me, ye shall eat the good things of the earth; but 
if ye be not willing, and hearken not, the sword shall devour you; for the mouth 
of the Lord hath said this. 
8:5 Desiring, therefore, that all his beloved ones should partake of 
repentance, he hath confirmed it by his almighty will. 
CHAPTER 9 
9:1 Wherefore, let us submit ourselves to his excellent and glorious will, 
and, becoming suppliants of his mercy and goodness, let us fall before him and 
betake ourselves to his mercies, having laid aside the vain toil and the strife 
and the jealousy that leadeth unto death. 
9:2 Let us look steadfastly at those that have ministered with perfectness to 
his excellent glory. 
9:3 Let us take as example Enoch, who, having been found just by reason of 
obedience, was translated, and his death was not found. 
9:4 Noah, having been found faithful, preached, by his ministry, regeneration 
unto the world, and by him God preserved the animals that entered with one 
consent into the ark. 
CHAPTER 10 
10:1 Abraham, who was called the friend, was found faithful, inasmuch as he 
became obedient to the words of God. 
10:2 This man, by obedience, went out from his land and his kinsfolk, and the 
house of his father, that, by leaving a scanty land and weak kinsfolk and a 
small house, he might inherit the promises of God. 
10:3 For he saith unto him, Go out from thy land and thy kinsfolk, and the 
house of thy father, unto the land that I shall show thee, and I will make thee 
a great nation, and bless thee, and magnify thy name, and thou shalt be blessed; 
and I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee, and in 
thee shall all the tribes of the earth be blessed. 
10:4 And again, when he separated from Lot, God said unto him, Lift up thine 
eyes, and look from the place where thou now art unto the north and unto the 
south, and unto the east and unto the sea; for all the land which thou seest, to 
thee will I give it and to thy seed for ever, 
10:5 and I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth: if any man can number 
the dust of the earth, thy seed also shall be numbered. 
10:6 And again he saith, God brought forth Abraham, and said unto him: Look 
up to heaven and number the stars, if thou art able to number them, so shall thy 
seed be. And Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him for righteousness. 
10:7 Through faith and hospitality a son was given unto him in old age, and 
through obedience he offered him a sacrifice unto God on one of the mountains 
that he showed him. 
CHAPTER 11 
11:1 By hospitality and goodness Lot was saved out of Sodom when the whole 
region round about was judged with fire and brimstone; the Lord making it 
manifest that he leaveth not them that hope upon him, but appointeth to 
punishment and torment them that turn in another way. 
11:2 For his wife, who went out together with him, being of another mind, and 
not being in concord with him, was on that account placed as a sign, so that she 
became a pillar of salt even to this day; that it might be known to all that the 
double-minded, and they who doubt concerning the power of God, are for a 
judgment and a sign to all generations. 
CHAPTER 12 
12:1 Through faith and hospitality Rahab the harlot was saved; 
12:2 for when spies were sent unto Jericho by Jesus, the son of Nun, the king 
of the land knew that they had come to spy out his country, and sent out men to 
apprehend them that they might be taken and put to death. 
12:3 But the hospitable Rahab having received them, hid them in an upper 
story under the stalks of flax. 
12:4 When, therefore, the men from the king came upon her, and said, There 
came unto thee men who are spies of this our land; bring them out, for the king 
so commandeth it; she answered, The two men whom ye are seeking entered in unto 
me, but they departed quickly and are on their way; but she showed not the men 
unto them. 
12:5 And she said unto the men, Of a surety I know that the Lord your God has 
given over this city unto you; for the fear and trembling of you hath fallen 
upon them that inhabit it; when, therefore, it hath happened unto you to take 
it, save me and the house of my father. 
12:6 And they say unto her, So shall it be, even as thou hast spoken unto us. 
When, therefore, thou hast perceived that we are coming, thou shalt gather 
together all thy household under thy roof, and they shall be saved; but as many 
as shall be found without the house shall be destroyed. 
12:7 And they proceeded further to give her a sign, that she should hang from 
her house scarlet, making it manifest beforehand that through the blood of the 
Lord there shall be redemption to all who believe and hope upon God. 
12:8 Behold, beloved, how there was not only faith, but prophecy in the 
woman. 
CHAPTER 13 
13:1 Let us therefore, brethren, be humble, laying aside all boasting and 
pride, and folly and wrath, and let us do that which is written; for the Holy 
Spirit saith, Let not the wise boast in his wisdom, nor the strong in his 
strength, nor the rich in his riches; but let him that boasteth make his boast 
in the Lord, even by seeking him and doing judgment and justice. Let us 
especially remember the words of our Lord Jesus Christ which he spake when 
teaching gentleness and long-suffering, for he spake thus: 
13:2 Show mercy, that ye may obtain mercy; forgive, that it may be forgiven 
unto you; as ye do, so shall it be done unto you; as ye give, so shall it be 
given unto you; as ye judge, so shall ye be judged; as ye are kindly 
affectioned, so shall kindness be showed unto you; with whatsover measure ye 
measure, with the same shall it be measured unto you. 
13:3 With this commandment and with these exhortations let us strengthen 
ourselves, that we may walk obedient to his holy words with all humility. For 
the Holy Scripture saith, 
13:4 Upon whom shall I have respect but upon him that is meek and quiet, and 
that trembleth at my words? 
CHAPTER 14 
14:1 It is therefore meet and right, men and brethren, that we should be 
obedient unto God rather than follow them that in pride and disorderliness are 
leaders of detestable sedition. 
14:2 For we shall incur no slight harm, but rather a great danger, if we 
rashly give ourselves up to the wills of men who launch out into strife and 
sedition so as to estrange us from that which is good. 
14:3 Let us, therefore, show kindness towards them according to the mercy and 
sweetness of him that made us. 
14:4 For it is written, The men of kindness shall inherit the land. The 
innocent shall be left upon it; but they that be lawless shall be destroyed out 
of it. 
14:5 And again he saith, I saw the unrighteous man exalted on high and lifted 
up like the cedars of Lebanon. And I passed by, and behold he was not; I sought 
his place and found it not. Keep innocence, and regard righteousness; for there 
is a remnant that remaineth to the man of peace. 
CHAPTER 15 
15:1 Let us therefore cleave unto them who live in peace and godliness, not 
unto them who hypocritically profess to desire peace. 
15:2 For he saith in a certain place, This people honoureth me with their 
lips, but their heart is far from me. 
15:3 And again, With their mouth did they bless, but with their heart did 
they curse. 
15:4 And again he saith, They loved him with their mouth, and with their 
tongue they lied against him. For their heart was not right with him, nor were 
they faithful in his covenant. 
15:5 Let the crafty lips be put to silence, and may the Lord destroy all the 
deceitful lips, even the haughty tongue, they who said, Let us magnify our 
tongue, our lips are our own; who is master over us? 
15:6 On account of the misery of the poor, and on account of the groaning of 
the needy, I will now arise, saith the Lord; I will set him in safety, I will 
deal confidently with him. 
CHAPTER 16 
16:1 For Christ belongeth unto them that are humble, not unto them that exalt 
themselves over his flock. 
16:2 Our Lord Jesus Christ, who is the sceptre of the majesty of God, came 
not in the arrogance of boasting and pride, though he was able to do so; but in 
humility, even as the Holy Spirit spake concerning him. 
16:3 For he saith, Lord, who hath believed our report, and to whom hath the 
arm of the Lord been revealed? Like a child have we delivered our message before 
him; he is as a root in a thirsty land. There is no form nor glory in him, and 
we beheld him, and he had neither form nor comeliness, but his form was 
despised, lacking comeliness, beyond the form of the sons of men. He was a man 
stricken and in toil, knowing how to bear infirmity, for his face was turned 
away; it was dishonoured and held in no reputation. 
16:4 He beareth our sins and suffereth pain on our account, and we esteemed 
him as one in toil, stricken and afflicted. 
16:5 He was wounded for our sins, and for our transgressions did he suffer 
infirmity; the chastisement of our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we 
were healed. 
16:6 All we, like sheep, have gone astray, every one hath erred in his own 
way, 
16:7 and the Lord hath given him up for our sins; and he, through affliction, 
openeth not his mouth. He was led like a sheep to the slaughter, and as a lamb 
before its shearers is dumb, so openeth he not his mouth. 
16:8 In his humiliation his judgment was taken away, and who shall declare 
his generation, for his life is taken from the earth; 
16:9 for the iniquity of my people he hath come unto death. 
16:10 And I will give the wicked in requital for his burial, and the rich for 
his death: for he did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth: and the Lord 
willeth to purify him from stripes. 
16:11 If ye make an offering for sin your soul shall prolong its days. 
16:12 And the Lord willeth to take away from the travail of his soul, to show 
him light and to form him by knowledge, to justify the righteous man who serveth 
many well; and their sins he shall bear himself. 
16:13 Wherefore he shall receive the inheritance of many, and shall divide 
the spoils of the strong, because his soul was delivered up unto death, and he 
was numbered among the transgressors, 
16:14 and he bore the sins of many, and was given up for their sins. 
16:15 And again he saith, I am a worm and no man -- a reproach of men and 
despised of the people; 
16:16 all they who saw me mocked me, they spake with their lips, they shook 
the head; he hoped in God, let him deliver him, let him save him, because he 
desireth him. 
16:17 See, beloved, what is the example that hath been given unto us; for if 
the Lord so humbled himself, what shall we do who have through his mercy come 
under the yoke of his grace? 
CHAPTER 17 
17:1 Let us be imitators of them also who went about in goat-skins and 
sheep-skins, preaching the coming of Christ; we mean Elias and Elisaeus and 
Ezekiel the prophets, and beside them those who have obtained a good report. 
17:2 Abraham obtained an exceeding good report, and was called the friend of 
God, and saith, looking steadfastly to the glory of God in humility, I am but 
earth and ashes. 
17:3 And, moreover, concerning Job, it is thus written: Job was a just man 
and blameless, truthful, one that feared God, and abstained from all evil. 
17:4 But he himself, accusing himself, saith, No one is pure from pollution, 
though his life be but for one day. 
17:5 Moses was called faithful in all his house, and by his ministry God 
judged his people Israel by stripes and punishment. But he, though he was 
greatly glorified, spake not haughtily, but said, when the oracle was given him 
out of the bush, Who am I that thou sendest me? I am weak of voice and slow of 
tongue. 
17:6 And again he saith, I am but as the smoke from a pot. 
CHAPTER 18 
18:1 But what shall we say of David, who obtained a good report; unto whom 
God said, I have found a man after my own heart, David, the son of Jesse, with 
my everlasting mercy have I anointed him. 
18:2 But he himself saith unto God, Have mercy upon me, O God, according to 
thy great mercy, according to the multitude of thy compassion do away with mine 
iniquity; 
18:3 wash me throughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. For I 
know my iniquity, and my sin is ever before me. 
18:4 Against thee only have I sinned, and done this evil in thy sight, that 
thou mightest be justified in thy words, and overcome when thou art judged. 
18:5 Behold, I was shapen in wickedness, and in sin did my mother conceive 
me. 
18:6 Behold, thou hast loved truth; thou hast shown me the secret and hidden 
things of thy wisdom. 
18:7 Thou shalt sprinkle me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Thou shalt 
wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. 
18:8 Thou shalt make me to hear of joy and gladness; the bones that have been 
humiliated shall rejoice. 
18:9 Turn away thy face from my sins, and blot out all my misdeeds. 
18:10 Create in me a new heart, O Lord, and renew a right spirit within me. 
18:11 Cast me not away from thy presence, and take not thy Holy Spirit from 
me. 
18:12 O give me again the joy of thy salvation, and establish me with thy 
guiding Spirit. 
18:13 I will teach sinners thy ways; the ungodly shall be converted unto 
thee. 
18:14 Deliver me from blood-guiltiness, O God, thou God of my salvation; 
18:15 my tongue shall rejoice in thy righteousness. O Lord, thou shalt open 
my mouth, and my lips shall show forth thy praise. 
18:16 For if thou hadst desired sacrifice, I would have given it; in whole 
burnt offerings thou wilt not delight. 
18:17 The sacrifice of God is a broken spirit; a broken and a contrite heart 
God will not despise. 
CHAPTER 19 
19:1 The humility of men so many in number and so great, and who have 
obtained so good a report, and their subjection through obedience, hath made not 
only us but the generations before us better, namely, those who in fear and 
truth have received his oracles. 
19:2 Since, therefore, we have become the partakers in many great and 
glorious actions, let us finally return to that goal of peace that was given us 
from the beginning; let us look steadfastly to the Father and Creator of the 
whole world, and let us cleave to the glorious and excellent gifts and benefits 
of his peace. 
19:3 Let us behold him in spirit, and look with the eyes of the soul to his 
long-suffering will. Let us consider how gentle he is toward all his creation. 
CHAPTER 20 
20:1 The heavens, being put in motion by his appointment, are subject to him 
in peace; 
20:2 night and day accomplish the course ordered by him, in nothing hindering 
one another. 
20:3 The sun and the moon and the dances of the stars according to his 
appointment, in harmony and without any violation of order, roll on the courses 
appointed to them. 
20:4 The fruitful earth bringeth forth in due season, according to his will, 
abundant nourishment for men and beasts; nothing doubting, nor changing in 
anything from the things that are decreed by him. 
20:5 The unsearchable things of the abyss, and the secret ordinances of the 
lower parts of the earth, are held together by the same command. 
20:6 The hollow of the vast sea, gathered together by his hand into its 
reservoirs, transgresseth not the bounds placed around it; but even as he hath 
appointed to it, so it doeth; 
20:7 for he said, Thus far shalt thou come, and thy waves shall be broken 
within thee. 
20:8 The ocean, impassable to men, and the worlds that are beyond it, are 
governed by the same commandments of their Master. 
20:9 The seasons of spring and summer, autumn and winter, in peace succeed 
one another. 
20:10 The fixed stations of the winds, each in their due time, perform their 
services without offence. The ever-flowing fountains, made for enjoyment and 
health, offer their breasts without fail to sustain the lives of men. Even the 
smallest of animals come together in peace and harmony. 
20:11 All these things the great Maker and Master of all things hath 
appointed to be in peace and harmony, doing good unto all things, but more 
especially unto us, who have fled for refuge to his mercies, through our Lord 
Jesus Christ, 
20:12 to whom be glory and majesty for ever and ever. Amen. 
CHAPTER 21 
21:1 Beware, beloved, lest his many blessings come to be a condemnation to 
all of us, unless, walking worthily of him, we do what is honourable and well 
pleasing before him with oneness of mind. 
21:2 For he saith in a certain place, The Spirit of the Lord is a candle, 
searching out the secret places of the heart. 
21:3 Let us see how near he is at hand, and how none of our thoughts and 
reasonings do escape him. 
21:4 It is right, therefore, that we should not desert from his will. 
21:5 Let us offend against men who are foolish, and senseless, and puffed up 
in the pride of their own speech, rather than against God. 
21:6 Let us have respect to our Lord Jesus Christ, whose blood was given for 
us. Let us reverence them that are over us. Let us honour our elders. Let us 
instruct the young in the discipline of the fear of God. Let us direct our wives 
to that which is good; 
21:7 let them show forth the lovely habit of chastity, and exhibit the pure 
disposition of meekness. Let them make manifest by their conversation the 
government of their tongues; let them show love, not according to partiality, 
but equally to all that fear the Lord in holiness. 
21:8 Let your children be partakers of the discipline of Christ; let them 
learn how much humility availeth before God; what power a pure love hath with 
God; how his fear is honourable and great, preserving all who, with a pure mind, 
walk in holiness before him. 
21:9 For he is a searcher out of thoughts and counsels, his breath is in us, 
and when he willeth he will take it away. 
CHAPTER 22 
22:1 All these things doth the faith which is in Christ assure. For he 
himself, through the Holy Spirit, thus calleth unto us: Come, ye children, 
hearken unto me, I will teach you the fear of the Lord. 
22:2 What man is he that wisheth for life and would fain see good days? 
22:3 Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips that they speak no guile. 
22:4 Turn away from evil and do good; 
22:5 seek peace and pursue it. 
22:6 The eyes of the Lord are over the just, and his ears are open to their 
prayer. But the face of the Lord is against them that do evil, to destroy their 
memorial out of the land. 
22:7 The righteous cried, and the Lord heard him, and delivered him out of 
all his troubles. 
22:8 Many are the afflictions of the sinner, but they that hope in the Lord, 
mercy shall compass them round about. 
CHAPTER 23 
23:1 The Father whose mercies are over all things, who loveth to do good, 
hath bowels of compassion for them that fear him, and with gentleness and 
kindness bestoweth his favour upon them that come unto him with a pure mind. 
23:2 Wherefore let us not be double-minded, nor let our hearts form vain 
imaginations concerning his excellent and glorious gifts. 
23:3 Let not that scripture be applicable unto us which saith, Wretched are 
the double-minded, even they that doubt in their heart and say, We have heard 
these things in the time of our fathers; and lo, we have grown old, and none of 
them hath happened unto us. 
23:4 O foolish ones! compare yourselves to a tree. Take, for example, the 
vine: first it sheddeth its leaves, then cometh the bud, then the leaf, then the 
flower, after that the unripe grape, then the ripe grape. See how in a little 
time the fruit of the tree attaineth to maturity. 
23:5 Of a truth, quickly and suddenly shall his will be fulfilled; the 
scripture also bearing witness that he shall come quickly, and shall not tarry; 
and the Lord shall come suddenly into his temple, even the holy one, whom ye 
expect. 
CHAPTER 24 
24:1 Let us consider, beloved, how the Master showeth to us continually the 
resurrection that is about to be, of which he hath made our Lord Jesus Christ 
the first fruit, having raised him from the dead. 
24:2 Let us look, beloved, at the resurrection that is ever taking place. 
24:3 Day and night show to us the resurrection; the night is lulled to rest, 
the day ariseth; the day departeth, the night cometh on. 
24:4 Let us consider the fruits, in what way a grain of corn is sown. 
24:5 The sower goeth forth and casteth it into the ground, and when the seeds 
are cast into the ground, they that fell into the ground dry and naked are 
dissolved; then after their dissolution, the mighty power of the providence of 
the Lord raiseth them up, and from one seed many grow up and bring forth fruits. 

CHAPTER 25 25:1 Let us consider the wonderful sign that happeneth in the 
region of the east, even about Arabia. 
25:2 There is a bird which is called the phoenix. This, being the only one of 
its kind, liveth for five hundred years. And when the time of its death draweth 
near, it maketh for itself a nest of frankincense and myrrh and the other 
perfumes, into which, when its time is fulfilled, it entereth, and then dieth. 
25:3 But as its flesh rotteth, a certain worm is produced, which being 
nourished by the moisture of the dead animal, putteth forth feathers. Then, when 
it hath become strong, it taketh the nest wherein are the bones of its ancestor, 
and bearing them, it flieth from the region of Arabia to that of Egypt, to the 
city which is called Heliopolis; 
25:4 there, in day-time, in the sight of all, it flieth up, and placeth them 
upon the altar of the sun, and having done so, returneth back. 
25:5 The priests, therefore, look into the registers of the times, and find 
that it has come at the completion of the five-hundredth year. 
CHAPTER 26 
26:1 Shall we then think it great and wonderful, if the Maker of all things 
shall make a resurrection of those who, in the confidence of a good faith, have 
piously seized him, when even by means of a bird he showeth the greatness of his 
promises? 
26:2 For he saith in a certain place, And thou shalt raise me up, and I will 
give thanks unto thee; and again: I slumbered and slept; I arose up because thou 
art with me. 
26:3 And again Job saith, Thou shalt raise up this my flesh, which hath 
suffered all these things. 
CHAPTER 27 
27:1 In this hope, therefore, let our souls be bound unto him who is faithful 
in his promises and just in his judgments. 
27:2 He who hath commanded men not to lie, much more shall he not lie; for 
nothing is impossible with God, except to lie. 
27:3 Let our faith, therefore, in him be kindled afresh within us, and let us 
consider that all things are near unto him. 
27:4 By the word of his majesty did he constitute all things, and by a word 
he is able to destroy them. 
27:5 Who shall say unto him, What hast thou done? or who shall resist the 
might of his strength? He will do all things when he willeth and as he willeth, 
and none of the things decreed by him shall pass away. 
27:6 All things are before him, and nothing hath escaped his counsel: 
27:7 seeing that the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament 
showeth the work of his hands: day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto 
night proclaimeth knowledge; and there is no speech nor language where their 
voices are not heard. 
CHAPTER 28 
28:1 Since, therefore, all things are seen and heard of him, let us fear him 
and abandon the filthy desires for evil deeds, that we may be sheltered by his 
mercy from the judgments to come. 
28:2 For whither can any of us fly from his mighty hand, and what world shall 
receive any of them that desert from him? 
28:3 For the scripture saith in a certain place, Whither shall I go, and 
where shall I conceal myself from thy face? If I ascend into heaven, thou art 
there; if I depart into the uttermost parts of the earth, there is thy right 
hand; if I shall make my bed in the abyss, there is thy Spirit. 
28:4 Whither then shall we depart, and where shall we fly from him that 
embraceth all things? 

CHAPTER 29 
29:1 Let us, therefore, approach him with holiness of spirit, lifting unto 
him pure and undefiled hands; loving the kind and compassionate Father who hath 
made us a part of his elect. 
29:2 For it is thus written, When The Most High divided the nations, when he 
dispersed the sons of Adam, he settled the boundaries of the nations according 
to the number of the angels of God. The portion of the Lord was his people 
Jacob. 
29:3 Israel was the measurement of his inheritance. And in another place he 
saith, Behold the Lord taketh to himself a nation from the midst of the nations, 
even as a man taketh the firstfruits of his threshingfloor; and there shall go 
forth from that nation the Holy of Holies. 
CHAPTER 30 
30:1 Since, therefore, we are a portion of the Holy One, let us do all such 
things as pertain unto holiness, avoiding evil-speaking, foul and impure 
embraces, drunkenness, disorderliness, abominable desires, detestable adultery, 
execrable pride; 
30:2 for God, he saith, resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the 
humble. 
30:3 Let us cleave, therefore, to them to whom grace has been given from God. 
Let us clothe ourselves with concord, being humble, temperate, keeping ourselves 
far from all whispering and evil speaking, justified by our deeds, and not by 
our words. 
30:4 For he saith, He who saith many things shall, in return, hear many 
things. Doth he that is eloquent think himself to be just? 
30:5 -- doth he that is born of woman and liveth but for a short time think 
himself to be blessed? Be not abundant in speech. 
30:6 Let our praise be in God, and not for ourselves, for God hateth the 
self-praisers. 
30:7 Let the testimony of right actions be given us from others, even as it 
was given to our fathers who were just. 
30:8 Audacity, self-will, and boldness belong to them who are accursed of 
God; but moderation, humility, and meekness, to them that are blessed of God. 
CHAPTER 31 
31:1 Let us cleave, therefore, to his blessing, and let us see what are the 
ways of blessing. Let us consult the records of the things that happened from 
the beginning. 
31:2 On what account was our father Abraham blessed? Was it not that he 
wrought righteousness and truth through faith? 
31:3 Isaac, with confidence, knowing the future, willingly became a 
sacrifice. 
31:4 Jacob, with humility, flying from his brother, went out from his own 
land and journeyed unto Laban and served as a slave, and there were given unto 
him the twelve tribes of Israel. 
CHAPTER 32 

32:1 If any one will consider these things with sincerity and one by one, he 
will recognize the magnificence of the gifts that were given by him. 
32:2 For from Jacob came the priests and all the Levites that serve the altar 
of God. From him came our Lord Jesus Christ according to the flesh; from him 
came the kings and rulers and governors of the tribe of Judah; and the remainder 
of his tribes are of no small glory, since God hath promised, Thy seed shall be 
as the stars of heaven. 
32:3 All these, therefore, have been glorified and magnified, not through 
themselves or through their works, or through the righteousness that they have 
done, but through his will. 
32:4 And we who through his will have been called in Christ Jesus are 
justified, not by ourselves, or through our wisdom or understanding or 
godliness, or the works that we have done in holiness of heart, but by faith, by 
which all men from the beginning have been justified by Almighty God, to whom be 
glory world without end. Amen. 
CHAPTER 33 
33:1 What, then, shall we do, brethren? Shall we cease from well-doing, and 
abandon charity? May the Master never allow that this should happen to us! but 
let us rather with diligence and zeal hasten to fulfil every good work. 
33:2 For the Maker and Lord of all things rejoiceth in his works. 
33:3 By his supreme power he founded the heavens, and by his incomprehensible 
understanding he ordered them. The earth he separated from the water that 
surrounded it, and fixed it on the firm foundation of his own will. The animals 
which inhabit therein he commanded to be by his ordinance. Having made 
beforehand the sea and the animals that are therein, he shut them in by his own 
power. 
33:4 Man, the most excellent of all animals, infinite in faculty, he moulded 
with his holy and faultless hands, in the impress of his likeness. 
33:5 For thus saith God: Let us make man in our own image, and after our own 
likeness. And God made man. Male and female made he them. 
33:6 When, therefore, he had finished all things, he praised and blessed 
them, and said, Be fruitful, and multiply. 
33:7 Let us see, therefore, how all the just have been adorned with good 
works. Yea, the Lord himself rejoiced when he had adorned himself with his 
works. 
33:8 Having, therefore, this example, let us come in without shrinking to his 
will; let us work with all our strength the work of righteousness. 
CHAPTER 34 
34:1 The good workman receiveth boldly the bread of his labour, but the 
slothful and remiss looketh not his employer in the face. 
34:2 It is therefore right that we should be zealous in well-doing, for from 
Him are all things; 
34:3 for he telleth us beforehand, Behold the Lord cometh, and his reward is 
before his face, to give to every one according to his work. 
34:4 He exhorteth us, therefore, with this reward in view, to strive with our 
whole heart not to be slothful or remiss towards every good work. 
34:5 Let our glorying and our confidence be in him; let us submit ourselves 
to his will; let us consider the whole multitude of his angels, how they stand 
by and serve his will. 
34:6 For the scripture saith, Ten thousand times ten thousand stood beside 
him, and thousands of thousands served him; and they cried, Holy, holy, holy 
Lord of Sabaoth! all creation is full of his glory. 
34:7 And let us, being gathered together in harmony and a good conscience, 
cry earnestly, as it were with one mouth, unto him, that we may become partakers 
of his great and glorious promises; 
34:8 for he saith, Eye hath not seen, and ear hath not heard, neither hath 
there entered into the heart of man, what things he hath prepared for them that 
wait for him. 
CHAPTER 35 
35:1 Behold, beloved, how blessed and wonderful are the gifts of God 
35:2 -- life in immortality, cheerfulness in righteousness, truth in liberty, 
faith in confidence, temperance in sanctification; and all these things have 
already come within our cognizance. 
35:3 What therefore are the things that are prepared for them that abide in 
patience? The Maker and Father of the worlds, the all-holy one, he knoweth how 
many and how beautiful they are. 
35:4 Let us, therefore, strive to be found in the number of them that await 
him, that we may partake of the promised gifts. 
35:5 And how will this be, beloved? If our mind be established by faith 
toward God; if we seek out what is pleasant and acceptable in his sight; if we 
perform such things as harmonize with his blameless will, and follow in the way 
of truth, casting from us all unrighteousness and lawlessness, covetousness, 
strife, malice and fraud, whispering and evil speaking, hatred of God, pride and 
insolence, vainglory and churlishness. 
35:6 For they who do these things are hateful unto God, and not only they who 
do them, but also they who have pleasure in them that do them. 
35:7 For the scripture saith: But unto the sinner God hath said, Why dost 
thou speak of my ordinances, and takest my covenant in thy mouth: 
35:8 but thou hast hated instruction and hast cast my words behind thee. When 
thou sawest a thief thou wentest with him, and hast cast in thy portion with the 
adulterers; thy mouth hath abounded with evil, and thy tongue hath contrived 
deceit. Thou satest and spakest against thy brother, and hast slandered the son 
of thy mother. 
35:9 This hast thou done, and I kept silence. Thou thoughtest, O wicked one, 
that I was like unto thee; 
35:10 but I will convict thee, and set thyself before thee. 
35:11 Consider this, ye who forget God, lest he seize you as a lion, and 
there be none to save you. 
35:12 The sacrifice of praise shall honour me; and there is the way by which 
I will show him the salvation of God. 
CHAPTER 36 
36:1 This is the way, beloved, in which we found our salvation; even Jesus 
Christ, the high priest of our oblations, the champion and defender of our 
weakness. 
36:2 Through him we look steadfastly to the heights of the heavens; through 
him we behold, as in a glass, the immaculate and lofty countenance of God the 
Father; through him the eyes of our heart were opened; through him our foolish 
and darkened understanding springeth up again to his marvellous light; through 
him the Lord hath willed us to taste of immortal knowledge; who, being the 
brightness of his glory, is so far better than the angels, as he hath, by 
inheritance, obtained a more excellent name than they. 
36:3 For it is thus written: Who maketh his angels spirits, his ministers a 
flame of fire. 
36:4 But of his Son the Lord hath thus said: Thou art my Son, to-day have I 
begotten thee. Ask of me, and I will give thee the heathen for thine 
inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the world for thy possession. 
36:5 And, again, he saith unto him: Sit on my right hand until I make thy 
enemies thy footstool. 
36:6 Who then are the enemies? Even the wicked, and they who resist the will 
of God. 
CHAPTER 37 
37:1 Let us, therefore, men and brethren, carry on our warfare with all 
earnestness in his faultless ordinances. 
37:2 Let us consider those who fight under our rulers, how orderly and 
obediently and submissively they perform what is commanded them. 
37:3 All are not prefects, or commanders of thousands, or commanders of 
hundreds, or commanders of fifties, or such-like; but each in his own rank 
performeth what has been ordered by the king or the commanders. 
37:4 The great cannot exist without the small, nor the small without the 
great. There is a certain mixture in all things, and from thence ariseth their 
use. 
37:5 Let us take, for example, our body; the head is nothing without the 
feet, nor the feet without the head. The smallest members of the body are 
necessary and useful to the whole body, and all unite and work with harmonious 
obedience for the preservation of the whole body. 
CHAPTER 38 
38:1 Let, therefore, our whole body be saved in Christ Jesus, and let each be 
subject to his neighbour, according to the gift which he hath received. 
38:2 Let not the strong man despise the weak, and let the weak pay regard to 
the strong. Let him that is rich minister to him that is poor. Let him that is 
poor praise God that he hath given unto him one by whom his want may be 
supplied. Let the wise show his wisdom, not in words, but in good deeds; let him 
that is humble not bear witness to himself, but leave another to bear witness to 
him. Let him that is pure in the flesh boast not of it, knowing that it is 
another that giveth him the power of continence. 
38:3 Let us consider, brethren, of what matter we are made, of what sort and 
who we are that have come into the world, as it were out of the tomb and 
darkness. He that made and fashioned us hath brought us into this world, having 
prepared beforehand his benefactions, even before we were born. 
38:4 Having, therefore, all these things from him, we ought in all respects 
to give thanks unto him, to whom be glory world without end. Amen. 
CHAPTER 39 
39:1 The senseless and unwise, the foolish and unruly, make a mock of us, 
wishing to exalt themselves in their own imagination. 
39:2 For what can a mortal do? or what strength hath he that is born of 
earth? 
39:3 For it is written, There was no form before my eyes, only I heard a 
breath and a voice. 
39:4 For what? shall a mortal be pure before the Lord? or is a man blameless 
from his works? seeing that he putteth no trust in his servants, and beholdeth 
somewhat of iniquity in his angels; 
39:5 yea, the heaven is not pure in his sight. Away, ye who dwell in houses 
of clay, of whom are we also even of the same clay. He hath smitten them even as 
it were a moth, and in a single day they are no more. Because they could not 
help themselves they perished: 
39:6 he blew among them, and they died, because they had no wisdom. 
39:7 Call, now, and see if there is any one that will obey thee, if thou 
shalt behold any of the holy angels. For anger destroyeth the fool, and envy 
putteth him to death that is gone out of the way. 
39:8 I have beheld the foolish casting forth roots, but straightway his 
habitation was eaten up. 
39:9 Let his sons be far from safety, let them be mocked at the gates of 
their inferiors, and there shall be none to deliver them. For that which had 
been prepared for them the just shall eat, and they shall not be delivered out 
of their troubles. 
CHAPTER 40 
40:1 Since, therefore, these things have been made manifest before unto us, 
and since we have looked into the depths of the divine knowledge, we ought to do 
everything in order, whatsoever the Lord hath commanded us to do at the 
appointed seasons, and to perform the offerings and liturgies. 
40:2 These he hath not commanded to be done at random or in disorder, but at 
fixed times and seasons. 
40:3 But when and by whom he wisheth them to be fulfilled he himself hath 
decided by his supreme will; that all things, being done piously, according to 
his good pleasure, might be acceptable to his will. 
40:4 They, therefore, who at the appointed seasons make their offerings are 
acceptable and blessed; for while following the laws of the Master they do not 
completely sin. 
40:5 For to the High Priest were assigned special services, and to the 
priests a special place hath been appointed; and on the Levites special duties 
are imposed. But he that is a layman is bound by the ordinances of laymen. 
CHAPTER 41 
41:1 Let each of you, brethren, in his own order, give thanks unto God, 
continuing in a good conscience, not transgressing the fixed rule of his 
ministry, with all gravity. 
41:2 Not in every place, brethren, are sacrifices offered continually, either 
in answer to prayer, or concerning sin and neglect, but in Jerusalem only; and 
even there the offering is not made in every place, but before the temple in the 
court of the altar, after that which is offered has been diligently examined by 
the high priest and the appointed ministers. 
41:3 They, therefore, who do anything contrary to that which is according to 
his will have for their punishment death. 
41:4 Ye see, brethren, by as much as we have been thought worthy of greater 
knowledge, by so much the more are we exposed to danger. 
CHAPTER 42 
42:1 The Apostles received for us the gospel from our Lord Jesus Christ; our 
Lord Jesus Christ received it from God. 
42:2 Christ, therefore, was sent out from God, and the Apostles from Christ; 
and both these things were done in good order, according to the will of God. 
42:3 They, therefore, having received the promises, having been fully 
persuaded by the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, and having been 
confirmed by the word of God, with the full persuasion of the Holy Spirit, went 
forth preaching the good tidings that the kingdom of God was at hand. 
42:4 Preaching, therefore, through the countries and cities, they appointed 
their firstfruits to be bishops and deacons over such as should believe, after 
they had proved them in the Spirit. 
42:5 And this they did in no new way, for in truth it had in long past time 
been written concerning bishops and deacons; for the scripture, in a certain 
place, saith in this wise: I will establish their bishops in righteousness, and 
their deacons in faith. 
CHAPTER 43 
43:1 And wherein is it wonderful, if they who, in Christ, were entrusted by 
God with this work appointed the aforesaid officers? since even the blessed 
Moses, the faithful servant in all his house, signified in the sacred books all 
the things that were commanded unto him, whom also the prophets have followed, 
bearing witness together to the laws which were appointed by him. 
43:2 For he, when a strife arose concerning the priesthood, and when the 
tribes contended which of them should be adorned with that glorious name, 
commanded the twelve chiefs of the tribes to bring to him rods, each inscribed 
with the name of a tribe; and when he had taken them, he bound them together, 
and sealed them with the seals of the heads of the tribes, and laid them up on 
the table of God, in the tabernacle of the testimony. 
43:3 And when he had closed the tabernacle, he sealed the keys, and likewise 
the rods, 
43:4 and said unto them, Men and brethren, of whatever tribe the rod shall 
bud, this hath God chosen to be his priest, and to serve him. 
43:5 And when morning was come, he called together all Israel, even six 
hundred thousand men, and showed unto the heads of the tribes the seals, and 
opened the tabernacle of the testimony and brought forth the rods, and the rod 
of Aaron was found not only to have budded, but also bearing fruit. 
43:6 What think ye, beloved? did not Moses know beforehand that this was 
about to happen? Most assuredly did he know it. But, that there might be no 
disorder in Israel, he did thus that the name of the true and only God might be 
glorified, to whom be glory world without end. Amen. 
CHAPTER 44 
44:1 Our Apostles, too, by the instruction of our Lord Jesus Christ, knew 
that strife would arise concerning the dignity of a bishop; 
44:2 and on this account, having received perfect foreknowledge, they 
appointed the above-mentioned as bishops and deacons: and then gave a rule of 
succession, in order that, when they had fallen asleep, other men, who had been 
approved, might succeed to their ministry. 
44:3 Those who were thus appointed by them, or afterwards by other men of 
good repute, with the consent of the whole Church, who have blamelessly 
ministered to the flock of Christ with humility, quietly, and without 
illiberality, and who for a long time have obtained a good report from all, 
these, we think, have been unjustly deposed from the ministry. 
44:4 For it will be no small sin in us if we depose from the office of bishop 
those who blamelessly and piously have made the offerings. 
44:5 Happy are the presbyters who finished their course before, and died in 
mature age after they had borne fruit; for they do not fear lest any one should 
remove them from the place appointed for them. 
44:6 For we see that ye have removed some men of honest conversation from the 
ministry, which had been blamelessly and honourably performed by them. 
CHAPTER 45 
45:1 Ye are contentious, brethren, and are zealous concerning things that 
pertain not unto salvation. 
45:2 Look diligently into the scriptures, which are the true sayings of the 
Holy Spirit. 
45:3 Ye know how that nothing unjust or corrupt hath been written in them; 
for ye will not in them find the just expelled by holy men. 
45:4 The just were persecuted, but it was by the lawless; they were thrown 
into prison, but it was by the unholy; they were stoned, but it was by sinners; 
they were slain, but it was by wicked men, even by those who had taken up an 
unjust envy against them. 
45:5 They, therefore, when they suffered all these things, suffered them with 
a good report. 
45:6 For what shall we say, brethren? was it by those that feared God that 
Daniel was cast into the den of lions? 
45:7 Was it by those who practised the magnificent and glorious worship of 
the Most High that Ananias, Azarias, and Misael, were shut up in the fiery 
furnace? Let us not suppose that such was the case. Who, then, were the men who 
did these things? Abominable men and full of all wickedness were inflamed to 
such a degree of wrath that they cast into tortures those who, with a holy and a 
blameless purpose, served God, not knowing that the Most High is a champion and 
defender of those who with a pure conscience serve his most excellent name, to 
whom be glory world without end. Amen. 
45:8 But they, abiding steadfastly in their confidence, have inherited honour 
and glory, and have both been exalted and made beautiful by God, in the memory 
that is made of them world without end. Amen. 
CHAPTER 46 
46:1 To such examples ought we also to cleave, brethren. 
46:2 For it is written, Cleave unto them that are holy, for they that cleave 
unto them shall be made holy. 
46:3 And again, in another place he saith, With the guiltless man thou shalt 
be guiltless, and with the excellent thou shalt be excellent, and with him that 
is crooked thou shalt be perverse. 
46:4 Let us, therefore, cleave to the guiltless and the just, for they are 
the elect of God. 
46:5 Why are there strivings, and anger, and division, and war among you? 
46:6 Have we not one God and one Christ? Is not the Spirit of grace, which 
was poured out upon us, one? Is not our calling one in Christ? 
46:7 Why do we tear apart and rend asunder the members of Christ, and make 
sedition against our body, and come to such a degree of madness that we forget 
we are members one of another? Remember the words of our Lord Jesus, 
46:8 for he said, Woe unto that man; it were good for him if he had never 
been born, rather than that he should cause one of my elect to offend. It were 
better for him that a millstone were tied about him, and that he were cast into 
the sea, rather than that he should cause one of my little ones to offend. 
46:9 This your schism has perverted many; hath cast many into despondency; 
many into doubt; all of us into grief, and, as yet, your sedition remaineth. 
CHAPTER 47 
47:1 Take into your hands the epistle of the blessed Apostle Paul. 
47:2 What did he first write unto you in the beginning of his gospel? 
47:3 Of a truth, he warned you spiritually, in a letter, concerning himself, 
and concerning Cephas and Apollos, because even then there were factions among 
you; 
47:4 but the faction of that time brought less sin upon you; for ye inclined 
unto Apostles of good repute, and unto a man approved among them. 
47:5 But now consider who they are that have perverted you, and have 
diminished the glory of your famous brotherly love. 
47:6 Disgraceful, brethren, yea, very disgraceful is it, and unworthy of the 
conduct which is in Christ, that it should be reported that the most firm and 
ancient Church of the Corinthians hath, on account of one or two persons, made 
sedition against its presbyters. 
47:7 And this report came not only unto us, but also unto the Gentiles, who 
go not with us. So that ye heap blasphemies on the name of the Lord through your 
folly, and withal cause danger to yourselves. 
CHAPTER 48 
48:1 Let us, therefore, remove this thing as quickly as possible, and let us 
fall before the feet of the Master, and beseech him with tears, that he will 
have mercy and be reconciled unto us, and restore us again to the grave and pure 
conversation of brotherly love. 
48:2 For this is a gate of righteousness opened unto life, as it is written, 
Open unto me the gates of righteousness; I will go in unto them, and give thanks 
unto the Lord: 
48:3 this is the gate of the Lord; the righteous shall enter thereby. 
48:4 Now, since many gates have been opened, the gate of righteousness is 
that which is in Christ. Happy are all they that enter therein, and who keep 
their path straight in holiness and righteousness, quietly performing all their 
duties. 
48:5 If a man be faithful, if he be mighty to expound knowledge, if he be 
wise in the interpretation of words, if he be pure in his deeds, 
48:6 by so much the more ought he to be humble, and by as much as he seemeth 
to be greater, by so much the more ought he to seek the common advantage of all, 
and not of himself alone. 
CHAPTER 49 
49:1 Let him that hath the love which is in Christ keep the commandments of 
Christ. 
49:2 Who can describe sufficiently the bond of the love of God? 
49:3 Who is sufficient to speak as he ought of the excellence of its beauty? 
49:4 The height to which love leads up is unspeakable. 
49:5 Love joineth us unto God; love hideth a multitude of sins; love beareth 
all things; is long suffering in all things. In love there is nothing illiberal, 
nothing haughty. Love hath no schism; love maketh not sedition; love doth all 
things in harmony; in love all the elect of God have been made perfect. Without 
love nothing is acceptable unto God. 
49:6 In love, our Master hath taken us to himself. Through the love that he 
hath for us, Jesus Christ our Lord hath given his blood for us, by the will of 
God, his flesh for our flesh, his soul for our soul. 

CHAPTER 50 
50:1 Ye see, brethren, how great and wonderful a thing love is, and how there 
is no describing its perfection. 
50:2 Who is sufficient to be found in it, except those whom God shall have 
deemed worthy? Let us pray, therefore, and ask from his mercy that we may live 
in love, without human partiality, blameless. 
50:3 All the generations, from Adam even unto this day, are gone by; but they 
who have been made perfect in love according to the grace of God inhabit the 
abode of the pious, and shall be made manifest in the visitation of the kingdom 
of Christ. 
50:4 For it is written, Enter into the secret chambers but a little while, 
until my anger and wrath be passed, and I will remember the good day, and will 
raise you up from your sepulchres. 
50:5 Blessed are we, beloved, if we do the commandments of God in the harmony 
of love, so that through love our sins may be forgiven us. 
50:6 For it is written, Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven, and 
whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord imputeth not sin, 
and in whose mouth there is no guile. 
50:7 This blessedness cometh unto them who are elect by God, through Jesus 
Christ our Lord, to whom be glory world without end. Amen. 
CHAPTER 51 
51:1 Whatever errors, therefore, we have committed through the assaults of 
the adversary, let us for these ask pardon; and they who have been leaders of 
the sedition and division ought to consider the common ground of our hope. 
51:2 For they who have their conversation in fear and love wish that they 
themselves, rather than their neighbours, should fall into suffering; and would 
rather that themselves should undergo condemnation, than that the harmony which 
hath been honourably and justly handed down to us should do so. 
51:3 For it is better that a man should make confession concerning his sins, 
than that he should harden his heart, even as the heart of them was hardened who 
made sedition against Moses the servant of God; whose condemnation was manifest, 

51:4 for they went down alive into hell, and death swallowed them up. 
51:5 Pharaoh and his army, and all the leaders of Egypt, their chariots and 
their riders, through no other cause were sunk in the Red Sea, and perished 
there, than through the hardening of their foolish hearts, after that the signs 
and wonders happened in Egypt through the hand of Moses the servant of God. 
CHAPTER 52 
52:1 The Lord of all things, brethren, is in need of naught; neither 
requireth he anything of any one, except to confess unto him. 
52:2 For the elect David saith, I will confess unto the Lord, and that shall 
please him more than a young calf that putteth forth horns and hoofs. Let the 
poor behold and rejoice thereat. 
52:3 And again he saith, Offer unto the Lord the sacrifice of praise: pay thy 
vows unto the Most High. And call upon me in the day of thy affliction, and I 
will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. 
52:4 For the sacrifice unto God is a broken spirit. 
CHAPTER 53 
53:1 Ye know, beloved, and know well, the sacred scriptures, and have looked 
into the oracles of God; call, therefore, these things to remembrance. 
53:2 For, when Moses had gone up into the mount, and had tarried there forty 
days and forty nights in fasting and humiliation, the Lord said unto him, Moses, 
Moses, get thee down quickly hence, for thy people, whom thou broughtest out of 
the land of Egypt, have wrought iniquity. They have gone astray quickly out of 
the way that thou commandest them, and have made unto themselves molten images. 
53:3 And the Lord said unto him, I have spoken unto thee once and twice, 
saying, I have beheld this people, and, lo, it is a stiffnecked people. Let me 
alone, that I may destroy them, and I will wipe out their name from under 
heaven, and make of thee a nation great and wonderful, and far more numerous 
than they. 
53:4 And Moses said, Be it far from thee, O Lord. Forgive this people their 
sin, or wipe my name also out of the book of the living. 
53:5 Oh, the great love! Oh, the unsurpassable perfection! The servant is 
bold towards the Lord: he asketh remission for the people, or demands otherwise 
that he himself should be destroyed together with them. 
CHAPTER 54 
54:1 Who among you is noble? who is compassionate? who is filled with love? 
54:2 Let him speak in this wise: If through me sedition and strife arise, I 
will depart, I will go away whithersoever ye will, and I will do that which is 
commanded by the majority, only let the flock of Christ be at peace together 
with the appointed presbyters. 
54:3 He who doeth this shall gain for himself great glory in the Lord, and 
every place shall receive him; for the earth is the Lord's, and the fulness 
thereof. 
54:4 These things have they done who are citizens of the kingdom of God, 
which needeth not to be repented of, and these things will they yet do. 
CHAPTER 55 
55:1 But, to bring forward examples from the Gentiles, also many kings and 
leaders, when a time of pestilence had arisen, being warned by oracles, gave 
themselves unto death, that they might deliver their citizens by their blood. 
Many went out from their own cities, that there might be no more sedition 
therein. 
55:2 We know that many among us gave themselves up unto bonds, that they 
might deliver others. Many have given themselves up unto slavery, and, having 
received their own price, have therewith fed others. 
55:3 Many women, waxing strong through the grace of God, have performed many 
manly deeds. 
55:4 The blessed Judith, when the city was besieged, asked of the elders that 
she should be permitted to go forth into the camp of the aliens. 
55:5 She therefore delivered herself unto danger, and went out through love 
of her country and of her people, who were besieged. And the Lord delivered 
Olophernes into the hands of a woman. 
55:6 To no smaller danger did Esther, being perfect in faith, expose herself, 
that she might deliver the twelve tribes of Israel, who were about to perish. 
For by fasting and humiliation she besought the Master, who overlooketh all 
things, the God of Ages, who, seeing the humiliation of her soul, delivered the 
people for whose sake she put herself in jeopardy. 

CHAPTER 56 
56:1 Let us, therefore, pray for those who have fallen into any 
transgression, that moderation and humility may be given unto them, to the end 
that they should submit themselves, I do not say unto us, but unto the will of 
God; for so shall they obtain a fruitful and perfect remembrance and compassion 
before God and his saints. 
56:2 Let us accept, brethren, that discipline at which no one needeth to be 
offended. The admonition which we make one toward another is good and useful 
exceedingly, for it joineth us unto the will of God. 
56:3 For thus speaketh the holy word: The Lord hath chastened me with 
chastisements, but he hath not given me over unto death. 
56:4 For whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he 
receiveth. 
56:5 The righteous shall chastise me in pity and shall rebuke me, but let not 
the oil of sinners anoint mine head. 
56:6 And again he saith: Blessed is the man whom the Lord hath rebuked; 
refuse not thou the admonition of the Almighty, for he maketh thee to grieve, 
and again he restoreth thee; 
56:7 he hath smitten, and his hands have healed thee; 
56:8 six times shall he deliver thee from calamity, and the seventh time evil 
shall not touch thee. 
56:9 In the time of famine he shall deliver thee from death, in war he shall 
redeem thee from the hand of iron. 
56:10 From the scourge of the tongue shall he hide thee, and thou shalt not 
be afraid when evils approach. 
56:11 The unjust and the sinner shalt thou laugh to scorn; 
56:12 and of the wild beasts thou shalt not be afraid, for the wild beasts 
shall be at peace with thee. 
56:13 Then shalt thou know that thy house shall be at peace; the habitation 
of thy tabernacle shall not fail. 
56:14 Thou shalt know that thy seed is abundant, thy children like all the 
herb of the field. 
56:15 Thou shalt come to thy tomb like a ripe ear of corn reaped in due 
season, like the heap of a threshing-floor that is gathered at its proper time. 
56:16 Ye see, beloved, that there is a protection for them that are chastened 
by the Master, for God chasteneth us because he is good, to the end that we 
should be admonished by his holy discipline. 
CHAPTER 57 
57:1 Do ye, therefore, that have laid the foundation of the sedition submit 
yourselves to the presbyters, and be chastised to repentance, bending the knees 
of your hearts. 
57:2 Learn to submit yourselves, laying aside the vain and haughty self-will 
of your tongues; for it is better that you should be small and approved in the 
flock of Christ, rather than that, seeming to be superior to others, ye should 
be cast out of his hope. 
57:3 For thus saith the most excellent Wisdom, Behold, I will send upon you 
the language of my Spirit; I will teach you my word. 
57:4 Since I called and ye did not hearken, and prolonged my words, and ye 
attended not, but made my counsels of none effect, and were not obedient to my 
reproofs, therefore I will laugh at your destruction, I will exult when 
desolation cometh upon you; when perturbation hath suddenly come upon you, and 
ruin is at hand like a whirlwind, when tribulation and oppression cometh upon 
you. 
57:5 For the time shall come when ye shall call upon me, and I shall not 
hearken unto you; the wicked shall seek me, and shall not find me. They hated 
wisdom and chose not the fear of the Lord; they were not willing to attend to my 
counsels, they mocked at my rebukes. 
57:6 Wherefore they shall eat the fruits of their own way; they shall be 
filled with their own unrighteousness. 
57:7 For because they wronged the innocent they shall be slain, and judgment 
shall destroy the unrighteous; but he who hearkeneth unto me shall abide 
trusting in hope, and shall rest securely from all evil. 
CHAPTER 58 
58:1 Let us, therefore, submit to his all-holy and glorious name, and escape 
the threats that have been before spoken by Wisdom against the disobedient, that 
we may abide trusting in the most holy name of his greatness. 
58:2 Accept this our advice, and it will not be repented of by you. For as 
God liveth, and as the Lord Jesus Christ liveth, and the Holy Spirit, the 
confidence and hope of the elect, he who observeth in humility with earnest 
obedience, and repining not, the ordinances and commands given by God, he shall 
be reckoned and counted in the number of them that are saved by Jesus Christ, 
through whom is there to him glory, world without end. Amen. 
CHAPTER 59 
59:1 But if some should be disobedient to the things spoken by him through 
us, let them know that they will entangle themselves in no small transgression 
and danger, 
59:2 but that we shall be guiltless of this sin; and we will ask, making with 
earnestness our prayer and supplication, that the Maker of all things may keep 
uninjured in all the world the number of those that have been numbered as his 
elect, through his beloved Son, Jesus Christ, through whom he hath called us 
from darkness unto light, and from ignorance to a knowledge of the glory of his 
name. 
59:3 That we may hope in thy name, which is the first of all things, open the 
eyes of our heart to know thee, who art alone highest among the highest, holy 
among the holy, who puttest down the haughtiness of the proud, who scatterest 
the reasonings of the Gentiles, who exaltest the humble on high, and lowerest 
the lofty, who makest rich and makest poor, who killest and makest to live, the 
only benefactor of spirits, and God of all flesh, who lookest into the abysses, 
who beholdest the works of men, who art the helper of those in danger, the 
saviour of those who have lost hope, who art the maker and bishop of every soul, 
who makest the nations to multiply upon earth, and out of all hast chosen those 
that love thee through Jesus Christ thy beloved Son, through whom thou hast 
taught us, hast sanctified us, hast honoured us. 
59:4 We ask thee, Lord, to be our helper and assister, save those of us who 
are in affliction, have compassion on the humble, raise the fallen, appear to 
those who are in need, heal the sinners, convert those of thy people who are 
wandering from the way, feed the hungry, ransom our prisoners, raise up the 
sick, encourage the feeble-hearted, let all the nations know that thou art God 
alone and Jesus Christ thy Son, and that we are thy people and the sheep of thy 
pasture. 

CHAPTER 60 
60:1 Thou hast made manifest the everlasting constitution of the world by the 
things that happen. Thou, Lord, who art faithful in all generations, hast 
founded the world; thou who art just in thy judgments, who art wonderful in 
strength and greatness; thou who art wise in creating and prudent in 
establishing the things that are made; thou that art good in the things that are 
seen and faithful among them that trust upon thee, merciful and compassionate, 
forgive us our transgressions and unrighteousnesses, our sins and our 
negligences. 
60:2 Take not into account every sin of thy servants and handmaids, but 
purify us with the purification of thy truth, and make straight our steps in 
holiness and righteousness and singleness of heart, that we may so walk and do 
such things as are right and well pleasing before thee, and before our rulers. 
60:3 Yea, Lord, cause thy face to appear to us in peace to our good, that we 
may be sheltered by thy mighty hand, and preserved from all sin by thy lofty 
arm, and deliver us from those that hate us unjustly. 
60:4 Give unity and peace both to us and to all that dwell upon the earth, as 
thou gavest to our fathers when they called upon thee with faith and truth, so 
that we should become obedient to thy all-powerful and most excellent name, and 
to those who rule and govern us upon the earth. 
CHAPTER 61 
61:1 Thou, Lord, hast given the authority of the kingdom to them through thy 
almighty and unspeakable power, so that we, knowing the estimation and honour 
given to them by thee, might submit ourselves to them, in no way opposing thy 
will; to whom give, O Lord, health, peace, concord, stability, so that they may 
discharge the rule given unto them by thee without offence; 
61:2 for thou, heavenly Lord, everlasting King, givest to the sons of men 
glory and honour and authority over the things that are upon the earth. Do thou, 
Lord, direct their counsel according to what is good and pleasing before thee, 
that, fulfilling with peace and meekness and piety the authority given unto them 
by thee, they may obtain mercy from thee. 
61:3 Thou who alone art able to do these and greater good things among us, to 
thee do we give thanks through the high priest and protector of our souls, Jesus 
Christ, through whom to thee be the glory and majesty, now and to all 
generations, world without end. Amen. 
CHAPTER 62 
62:1 Concerning the things that pertain to our religion, and the things that 
are most useful to a virtuous life, for those who are willing to live piously 
and righteously, we have sufficiently charged you, men and brethren. 
62:2 For we have handled every argument concerning faith and repentance, and 
genuine love and temperance, and moderation and patience, reminding you that ye 
must by righteousness and truth and long-suffering approve yourselves with piety 
to almighty God, being of one mind, without malice, in love and peace with 
earnest obedience, even as our fathers, who were beforementioned, approved 
themselves with humility both with regard to God the Father and Creator and to 
all men. 
62:3 And these things have we so much the more gladly put you in mind of, 
inasmuch as we knew plainly that we wrote unto men who are faithful and of high 
repute, and who have looked into the oracles of the instruction of God. 
CHAPTER 63 
63:1 It is right, therefore, that those who have attended to so great and so 
many examples should submit their necks, and fill the place of obedience, so 
that being at peace from the vain sedition we may attain, without any blame, to 
the end set before us in truth. 
63:2 For joy and rejoicing will ye afford us if, becoming obedient to the 
things that have been written by us, ye put an end, by the suggestion of the 
Holy Spirit, to the unlawful wrath of your discord, according to the 
supplication which we have made concerning peace and unity in this epistle. 
63:3 But we have also sent unto you men who are faithful and prudent, who 
from youth up to old age have behaved blamelessly among us, who also will be 
witnesses between yourselves and us; 
63:4 and this we have done that ye may know that our whole thought has been 
and is this, that ye may speedily be at peace among yourselves. 
CHAPTER 64 
64:1 Finally, my God, who overlooketh all things, who is the Master of 
spirits and Lord of all flesh, who hath chosen our Lord Jesus Christ, and us 
through him to be a peculiar people, give unto every soul that is called after 
his glorious and holy name, faith, fear, peace, patience, long-suffering, 
continence, purity, sobriety, to the well-pleasing of his name, through our high 
priest and protector, Jesus Christ, through whom be ascribed unto him glory and 
greatness, strength and honour, both now and world without end. Amen. 
CHAPTER 65 
65:1 See that ye send back quickly unto us in peace and with joy Claudius 
Ephebus and Valerius Bito, together also with Fortunatus, who were sent unto you 
from us, that they may the more quickly bring us news of your peace and order, 
which we pray for and desire, so that we may the sooner have joy concerning your 
good order. 
65:2 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you, and with all who 
everywhere are called of God through him, to whom through him be glory, honour, 
might, majesty, and eternal dominion, world without end. Amen. 
END OF 1 CLEMENT 

