
First Clement












CLEMENT OF ROME, First Epistle

THE FIRST EPISTLE OF CLEMENT TO THE CORINTHIANS
Translated by J.B. Lightfoot. 
1Clem prologue:1
The Church of God which sojourneth in Rome to the Church of God which
sojourneth in Corinth, to them which are called and sanctified by the
will of God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Grace to you and peace
from Almighty God through Jesus Christ be multiplied.
1Clem 1:1
 By reason of the sudden and repeated calamities and reverses which
are befalling us, brethren, we consider that we have been somewhat
tardy in giving heed to the matters of dispute that have arisen among
you, dearly beloved, and to the detestable and unholy sedition, so
alien and strange to the elect of God, which a few headstrong and
self-willed persons have kindled to such a pitch of madness that your
name, once revered and renowned and lovely in the sight of all men,
hath been greatly reviled.
1Clem 1:2
For who that had sojourned among you did not approve your most
virtuous and steadfast faith? Who did not admire your sober and
forbearing piety in Christ? Who did not publish abroad your
magnificent disposition of hospitality? Who did not congratulate you
on your perfect and sound knowledge?
1Clem 1:3
For ye did all things without respect of persons, and ye walked after
the ordinances of God, submitting yourselves to your rulers and
rendering to the older men among you the honor which is their due.
On the young too ye enjoined modest and seemly thoughts: and the
women ye charged to perform all their duties in a blameless and
seemly and pure conscience, cherishing their own husbands, as is
meet; and ye taught them to keep in the rule of obedience, and to
manage the affairs of their household in seemliness, with all
discretion.
1Clem 2:1
 And ye were all lowly in mind and free from arrogance, yielding
rather than claiming submission, more glad to give than to
receive, and content with the provisions which God supplieth. And
giving heed unto His words, ye laid them up diligently in your
hearts, and His sufferings were before your eyes.
1Clem 2:2
Thus a profound and rich peace was given to all, and an insatiable
desire of doing good. An abundant outpouring also of the Holy Spirit
fell upon all;
1Clem 2:3
and, being full of holy counsel, in excellent zeal and with a pious
confidence ye stretched out your hands to Almighty God, supplicating
Him to be propitious, if unwillingly ye had committed any sin.
1Clem 2:4
Ye had conflict day and night for all the brotherhood, that the
number of His elect might be saved with fearfulness and intentness of
mind.
1Clem 2:5
Ye were sincere and simple and free from malice one towards another.
1Clem 2:6
Every sedition and every schism was abominable to you. Ye mourned
over the transgressions of your neighbors: ye judged their
shortcomings to be your own.
1Clem 2:7
Ye repented not of any well-doing, but were ready unto every good
work.
1Clem 2:8
Being adorned with a most virtuous and honorable life, ye performed
all your duties in the fear of Him. The commandments and the
ordinances of the Lord were written on the tablets of your hearts.
1Clem 3:1
 All glory and enlargement was given unto you, and that was fulfilled
which is written My beloved ate and drank and was enlarged and
waxed fat and kicked.
1Clem 3:2
Hence come jealousy and envy, strife and sedition, persecution and
tumult, war and captivity.
1Clem 3:3
So men were stirred up, the mean against the honorable, the ill
reputed against the highly reputed, the foolish against the wise, the
young against the elder.
1Clem 3:4
For this cause righteousness and peace stand aloof, while each
man hath forsaken the fear of the Lord and become purblind in the
faith of Him, neither walketh in the ordinances of His commandments
nor liveth according to that which becometh Christ, but each goeth
after the lusts of his evil heart, seeing that they have conceived an
unrighteous and ungodly jealousy, through which also death entered
into the world.
1Clem 4:1
 For so it is written, And it came to pass after certain days that
Cain brought of the fruits of the earth a sacrifice unto God, and
Abel he also brought of the firstlings of the sheep and of their
fatness.
1Clem 4:2
And God looked upon Abel and upon his gifts, but unto Cain and unto
his sacrifices He gave no heed.
1Clem 4:3
And Cain sorrowed exceedingly, and his countenance fell.
1Clem 4:4
And God said unto Cain, Wherefore art thou very sorrowful and
wherefore did thy countenance fall? If thou hast offered aright and
hast not divided aright, didst thou not sin? Hold thy peace.
1Clem 4:5
Unto thee shall he turn, and thou shalt rule over him. {This last
phrase has also been translated: Be at peace: thine offering
returns to thyself, and thou shalt again possess it.}
1Clem 4:6
And Cain said unto Abel his brother, Let us go over unto the plain.
And it came to pass, while they Were in the plain, that Cain rose up
against Abel his brother and slew him.
1Clem 4:7
Ye see, brethren, jealousy and envy wrought a brother's murder.
1Clem 4:8
By reason of jealousy our father Jacob ran away from the face of Esau
his brother.
1Clem 4:9
Jealousy caused Joseph to be persecuted even unto death, and to come
even unto bondage.
1Clem 4:10
Jealousy compelled Moses to flee from the face of Pharaoh king of
Egypt while it was said to him by his own countryman, Who made thee
a judge or a decider over us, Wouldest thou slay me, even as
yesterday thou slewest the Egyptian?
1Clem 4:11
By reason of jealousy Aaron and Miriam were lodged outside the camp.
1Clem 4:12
Jealousy brought Dathan and Abiram down alive to hades, because they
made sedition against Moses the servant of God.
1Clem 4:13
By reason of jealousy David was envied not only by the Philistines,
but was persecuted also by Saul [king of Israel].
1Clem 5:1
 But, to pass from the examples of ancient days, let us come to those
champions who lived nearest to our time. Let us set before us the
noble examples which belong to our generation.
1Clem 5:2
By reason of jealousy and envy the greatest and most righteous
pillars of the Church were persecuted, and contended even unto death.
1Clem 5:3
Let us set before our eyes the good Apostles.
1Clem 5:4
There was Peter who by reason of unrighteous jealousy endured not one
not one but many labors, and thus having borne his testimony went to
his appointed place of glory.
1Clem 5:5
By reason of jealousy and strife Paul by his example pointed out the
prize of patient endurance. After that he had been seven times in
bonds, had been driven into exile, had been stoned, had preached in
the East and in the West, he won the noble renown which was the
reward of his faith,
1Clem 5:6
having taught righteousness unto the whole world and having reached
the farthest bounds of the West; and when he had borne his testimony
before the rulers, so he departed from the world and went unto the
holy place, having been found a notable pattern of patient endurance.
1Clem 6:1
 Unto these men of holy lives was gathered a vast multitude of the
elect, who through many indignities and tortures, being the victims
of jealousy, set a brave example among ourselves.
1Clem 6:2
By reason of jealousy women being persecuted, after that they had
suffered cruel and unholy insults as Danaids and Dircae, safely
reached the goal in the race of faith, and received a noble reward,
feeble though they were in body.
1Clem 6:3
Jealousy hath estranged wives from their husbands and changed the
saying of our father Adam, This now is bone of my bones and flesh
of my flesh.
1Clem 6:4
Jealousy and strife have overthrown great cities and uprooted great
nations.
1Clem 7:1
 These things, dearly beloved, we write, not only as admonishing you,
but also as putting ourselves in remembrance. For we are in the same
lists, and the same contest awaiteth us.
1Clem 7:2
Wherefore let us forsake idle and vain thoughts; and let us conform
to the glorious and venerable rule which hath been handed down to us;
1Clem 7:3
and let us see what is good and what is pleasant and what is
acceptable in the sight of Him that made us.
1Clem 7:4
Let us fix our eyes on the blood of Christ and understand how
precious it is unto His Father, because being shed for our salvation
it won for the whole world the grace of repentance.
1Clem 7:5
Let us review all the generations in turn, and learn how from
generation to generation the Master hath given a place for repentance
unto them that desire to turn to Him.
1Clem 7:6
Noah preached repentance, and they that obeyed were saved.
1Clem 7:7
Jonah preached destruction unto the men of Nineveh; but they,
repenting of their sins, obtained pardon of God by their
supplications and received salvation, albeit they were aliens from
God.
1Clem 8:1
 The ministers of the grace of God through the Holy Spirit spake
concerning repentance.
1Clem 8:2
Yea and the Master of the universe Himself spake concerning
repentance with an oath:
1Clem 8:3
for, as I live saith the Lord, I desire not the death of the
sinner, so much as his repentance,
1Clem 8:4
and He added also a merciful judgment: Repent ye, O house of
Israel, of your iniquity; say unto the sons of My people, Though
your sins reach from the earth even unto the heaven, and though
they be redder than scarlet and blacker than sackcloth, and ye turn
unto Me with your whole heart and say Father, I will give ear unto
you as unto a holy people.
1Clem 8:5
And in another place He saith on this wise, Wash, be ye clean. Put
away your iniquities from your souls out of My sight. Cease from
your iniquities; learn to do good; seek out judgment; defend him
that is wronged: give judgment for the orphan, and execute
righteousness for the widow; and come and let us reason together,
saith He; and though your sins be as crimson, I will make them
white as snow; and though they be as scarlet, I will make them
white as wool. And if ye be willing and will hearken unto Me, ye
shall eat the good things of the earth; but if ye be not willing,
neither hearken unto Me, a sword shall devour you; for the mouth of
the Lord hath spoken these things.
1Clem 8:6
Seeing then that He desireth all His beloved to be partakers of
repentance, He confirmed it by an act of His almighty will.
1Clem 9:1
 Wherefore let us be obedient unto His excellent and glorious will;
and presenting ourselves as suppliants of His mercy and goodness, let
us fall down before Him and betake ourselves unto His compassions,
forsaking the vain toil and the strife and the jealousy which leadeth
unto death.
1Clem 9:2
Let us fix our eyes on them that ministered perfectly unto His
excellent glory.
1Clem 9:3
Let us set before us Enoch, who being found righteous in obedience
was translated, and his death was not found.
1Clem 9:4
Noah, being found faithful, by his ministration preached regeneration
unto the world, and through him the Master saved the living creatures
that entered into the ark in concord.
1Clem 10:1
 Abraham, who was called the 'friend,' was found faithful in that he
rendered obedience unto the words of God.
1Clem 10:2
He through obedience went forth from his land and from his kindred
and from his father's house, that leaving a scanty land and a feeble
kindred and a mean house he might inherit the promises of God.
1Clem 10:3
For He saith unto him Go forth from thy land and from thy kindred
and from thy father's house unto the land which I shall show thee,
and I will make thee into a great nation, and I will bless thee and
will magnify thy name, and thou shalt be blessed. And I will bless
them that bless thee, and I will curse them that curse thee; and in
thee shall all the tribes of the earth be blessed.
1Clem 10:4
And again, when he was parted from Lot, God said unto him Look up
with thine eyes, and behold from the place where thou now art, unto
the north and the south and the sunrise and the sea; for all the
land which thou seest, I will give it unto thee and to thy seed for
ever;
1Clem 10:5
and I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth. If any man can
count the dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also be counted.
1Clem 10:6
And again He saith; God led Abraham forth and said unto him, Look
up unto the heaven and count the stars, and see whether thou canst
number them. So shall thy seed be. And Abraham believed God, and it
was reckoned unto him for righteousness.
1Clem 10:7
For his faith and hospitality a son was given unto him in old age,
and by obedience he offered him a sacrifice unto God on one of the
mountains which He showed him.
1Clem 11:1
 For his hospitality and godliness Lot was saved from Sodom, when all
the country round about was judged by fire and brimstone; the Master
having thus fore shown that He forsaketh not them which set their
hope on Him, but appointeth unto punishment and torment them which
swerve aside.
1Clem 11:2
For when his wife had gone forth with him, being otherwise minded and
not in accord, she was appointed for a sign hereunto, so that she
became a pillar of salt unto this day, that it might be known unto
all men that they which are double-minded and they which doubt
concerning the power of God are set for a judgment and for a token
unto all the generations.
1Clem 12:1
 For her faith and hospitality Rahab the harlot was saved.
1Clem 12:2
For when the spies were sent forth unto Jericho by Joshua the son of
Nun, the king of the land perceived that they were come to spy out
his country, and sent forth men to seize them, that being seized they
might be put to death.
1Clem 12:3
So the hospitable Rahab received them and hid them in the upper
chamber under the flax stalks.
1Clem 12:4
And when the messengers of the king came near and said, The spies
of our land entered in unto thee: bring them forth, for the king so
ordereth: then she answered, The men truly, whom ye seek,
entered in unto me, but they departed forthwith and are sojourning
on the way; and she pointed out to them the opposite road.
1Clem 12:5
And she said unto the men, Of a surety I perceive that the Lord
your God delivereth this city unto you; for the fear and the dread
of you is fallen upon the inhabitants thereof. When therefore it
shall come to pass that ye take it, save me and the house of my
father.
1Clem 12:6
And they said unto her, It shall be even so as thou hast spoken
unto us. Whensoever therefore thou perceivest that we are coming,
thou shalt gather all thy folk beneath thy roof and they shall be
saved; for as many as shall be found without the house shall
perish.
1Clem 12:7
And moreover they gave her a sign, that she should hang out from her
house a scarlet thread, thereby showing beforehand that through the
blood of the Lord there shall be redemption unto all them that
believe and hope on God.
1Clem 12:8
Ye see, dearly beloved, not only faith, but prophecy, is found in the
woman.
1Clem 13:1
 Let us therefore be lowly minded, brethren, laying aside all
arrogance and conceit and folly and anger, and let us do that which
is written. For the Holy Ghost saith, Let not the wise man boast in
his wisdom, nor the strong in his strength, neither the rich in his
riches; but he that boasteth let him boast in the Lord, that he may
seek Him out, and do judgment and righteousness most of all
remembering the words of the Lord Jesus which He spake, teaching
forbearance and long-suffering:
1Clem 13:2
for thus He spake Have mercy, that ye may receive mercy: forgive,
that it may be forgiven to you. As ye do, so shall it be done to
you. As ye give, so shall it be given unto you. As ye judge, so
shall ye be judged. As ye show kindness, so shall kindness be
showed unto you. With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured
withal to you.
1Clem 13:3
With this commandment and these precepts let us confirm ourselves,
that we may walk in obedience to His hallowed words, with lowliness
of mind.
1Clem 13:4
For the holy word saith, Upon whom shall I look, save upon him that
is gentle and quiet and feareth Mine oracles?
1Clem 14:1
 Therefore it is right and proper, brethren, that we should be
obedient unto God, rather than follow those who in arrogance and
unruliness have set themselves up as leaders in abominable jealousy.
1Clem 14:2
For we shall bring upon us no common harm, but rather great peril, if
we surrender ourselves recklessly to the purposes of men who launch
out into strife and seditions, so as to estrange us from that which
is right.
1Clem 14:3
Let us be good one towards another according to the compassion and
sweetness of Him that made us. For it is written:
1Clem 14:4
The good shall be dwellers in the land, and the innocent shall be
left on it but they that transgress shall be destroyed utterly from
it.
1Clem 14:5
And again He saith I saw the ungodly lifted up on high and exalted
as the cedars of Lebanon. And I passed by, and behold he was not;
and sought out his place, and I found it not. Keep innocence and
behold uprightness; for there is a remnant for the peaceful man.
1Clem 15:1
 Therefore let us cleave unto them that practice peace with
godliness, and not unto them that desire peace with dissimulation.
1Clem 15:2
For He saith in a certain place This people honoreth Me with their
lips, but their heart is far from Me,
1Clem 15:3
and again, they blessed with their mouth, but they cursed with
their heart.
1Clem 15:4
And again He saith, They loved Him with their mouth, and with their
tongue they lied unto Him; and their heart was not upright with
Him, neither were they steadfast in His covenant.
1Clem 15:5
For this cause let the deceitful lips be made dumb which speak
iniquity against the righteous. And again May the Lord utterly
destroy all the deceitful lips, the tongue that speaketh proud
things, even them that say, Let us magnify our tongue; our lips are
our own; who is lord over us?
1Clem 15:6
For the misery of the needy and for the groaning of the poor I will
now arise, saith the Lord. I will set him in safety; I will deal
boldly by him.
1Clem 16:1
 For Christ is with them that are lowly of mind, not with them that
exalt themselves over the flock.
1Clem 16:2
The scepter of the majesty of God, even our Lord Jesus Christ, came
not in the pomp of arrogance or of pride, though He might have done
so, but in lowliness of mind, according as the Holy Spirit spake
concerning Him.
1Clem 16:3
For He saith Lord, who believed our report? and to whom was the arm
of the Lord revealed? We announced Him in His presence. As a child
was He, as a root in a thirsty ground. There is no form in Him,
neither glory. And we beheld Him, and He had no form nor
comeliness, but His form was mean, lacking more than the form of
men. He was a man of stripes and of toil, and knowing how to bear
infirmity: for His face is turned away. He was dishonored and held
of no account.
1Clem 16:4
He beareth our sins and suffereth pain for our sakes: and we
accounted Him to be in toil and in stripes and in affliction.
1Clem 16:5
And He was wounded for our sins and hath been afflicted for our
iniquities. The chastisement of our peace is upon Him. With His
bruises we were healed.
1Clem 16:6
We all went astray like sheep, each man went astray in his own
path:
1Clem 16:7
and the Lord delivered Him over for our sins. And He openeth not
His mouth, because He is afflicted. As a sheep He was led to
slaughter; and as a lamb before his shearer is dumb, so openeth He
not His mouth. In His humiliation His judgment was taken away.
1Clem 16:8
His generation who shall declare? For His life is taken away from
the earth.
1Clem 16:9
For the iniquities of my people He is come to death.
1Clem 16:10
And I will give the wicked for His burial, and the rich for His
death; for He wrought no iniquity, neither was guile found in His
mouth. And the Lord desireth to cleanse Him from His stripes.
1Clem 16:11
If ye offer for sin, your soul shall see along lived seed.
1Clem 16:12
And the Lord desireth to take away from the toil of His soul, to
show Him light and to mould Him with understanding, to justify a
Just One that is a good servant unto many. And He shall bear their
sins.
1Clem 16:13
Therefore He shall inherit many, and shall divide the spoils of the
strong; because His soul was delivered unto death, and He was
reckoned unto the transgressors;
1Clem 16:14
and He bare the sins of many, and for their sins was He delivered
up.
1Clem 16:15
And again He Himself saith; But I am a worm and no man, a reproach
of men and an outcast of the people.
1Clem 16:16
All they that beheld me mocked at me; they spake with their lips;
they wagged their heads, saying, He hoped on the Lord; let Him
deliver him, or let Him save him, for He desireth him.
1Clem 16:17
Ye see, dearly beloved, what is the pattern that hath been given unto
us; for, if the Lord was thus lowly of mind, what should we do, who
through Him have been brought under the yoke of His grace?
1Clem 17:1
 Let us be imitators also of them which went about in goatskins and
sheepskins, preaching the coming of Christ. We mean Elijah and Elisha
and likewise Ezekiel, the prophets, and besides them those men also
that obtained a good report.
1Clem 17:2
Abraham obtained an exceeding good report and was called the friend
of God; and looking steadfastly on the glory of God, he saith in
lowliness of mind, But I am dust and ashes.
1Clem 17:3
Moreover concerning Job also it is thus written; And Job was
righteous and unblamable, one that was true and honored God and
abstained from all evil.
1Clem 17:4
Yet he himself accuseth himself saying, No man from filth; no, not
though his life be but for a day.
1Clem 17:5
Moses was called faithful in all His house, and through his
ministration God judged Egypt with the plagues and the torments which
befell them. Howbeit he also, though greatly glorified, yet spake no
proud words, but said, when an oracle was given to him at the bush,
Who am I, that Thou sendest me?
1Clem 17:6
Nay, I am feeble of speech and slow of tongue. And again he saith,
But I am smoke from the pot.
1Clem 18:1
 But what must we say of David that obtained a good report? of whom
God said, I have found a man after My heart, David the son of
Jesse: with eternal mercy have I anointed him.
1Clem 18:2
Yet he too saith unto God Have mercy upon me, O God, according to
Thy great mercy; and according to the multitude of Thy compassions,
blot out mine iniquity.
1Clem 18:3
Wash me yet more from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.
For I acknowledge mine iniquity, and my sin is ever before me.
Against Thee only did I sin, and I wrought evil in Thy sight; that
Thou mayest be justified in Thy words, and mayest conquer in Thy
pleading.
1Clem 18:4
For behold, in iniquities was I conceived, and in sins did my
mother bear me. For behold Thou hast loved truth: the dark and
hidden things of Thy wisdom hast Thou showed unto me.
1Clem 18:5
Thou shalt sprinkle me with hyssop, and I shall be made clean. Thou
shalt wash me, and I shall become whiter than snow.
1Clem 18:6
Thou shalt make me to hear of joy and gladness. The bones which
have been humbled shall rejoice.
1Clem 18:7
Turn away Thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities.
1Clem 18:8
Make a clean heart within me, O God, and renew a right spirit in
mine inmost parts. Cast me not away from Thy presence, and take not
Thy Holy Spirit from me.
1Clem 18:9
Restore unto me the joy of Thy salvation, and strengthen me with a
princely spirit.
1Clem 18:10
I will teach sinners Thy ways, and godless men shall be converted
unto Thee.
1Clem 18:11
Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God, the God of my salvation.
My tongue shall rejoice in Thy righteousness.
1Clem 18:12
Lord, Thou shalt open my mouth, and my lips shall declare Thy
praise.
1Clem 18:13
For, if Thou hadst desired sacrifice, I would have given it: in
whole burnt offerings Thou wilt have no pleasure.
1Clem 18:14
A sacrifice unto God is a contrite spirit; a contrite and humbled
heart God will not despise.
1Clem 19:1
 The humility therefore and the submissiveness of so many and so
great men, who have thus obtained a good report, hath through
obedience made better not only us but also the generations which were
before us, even them that received His oracles in fear and truth.
1Clem 19:2
Seeing then that we have been partakers of many great and glorious
doings, let us hasten to return unto the goal of peace which hath
been handed down to us from the beginning, and let us look
steadfastly unto the Father and Maker of the whole world, and cleave
unto His splendid and excellent gifts of peace and benefits.
1Clem 19:3
Let us behold Him in our mind, and let us look with the eyes of our
soul unto His long-suffering will. Let us note how free from anger He
is towards all His creatures.
1Clem 20:1
 The heavens are moved by His direction and obey Him in peace.
1Clem 20:2
Day and night accomplish the course assigned to them by Him, without
hindrance one to another.
1Clem 20:3
The sun and the moon and the dancing stars according to His
appointment circle in harmony within the bounds assigned to them,
without any swerving aside.
1Clem 20:4
The earth, bearing fruit in fulfillment of His will at her proper
seasons, putteth forth the food that supplieth abundantly both men
and beasts and all living things which are thereupon, making no
dissension, neither altering anything which He hath decreed.
1Clem 20:5
Moreover, the inscrutable depths of the abysses and the unutterable
statutes of the nether regions are constrained by the same
ordinances.
1Clem 20:6
The basin of the boundless sea, gathered together by His workmanship
into it's reservoirs, passeth not the barriers wherewith it is
surrounded; but even as He ordered it, so it doeth.
1Clem 20:7
For He said, So far shalt thou come, and thy waves shall be broken
within thee.
1Clem 20:8
The ocean which is impassable for men, and the worlds beyond it, are
directed by the same ordinances of the Master.
1Clem 20:9
The seasons of spring and summer and autumn and winter give way in
succession one to another in peace.
1Clem 20:10
The winds in their several quarters at their proper season fulfill
their ministry without disturbance; and the ever flowing fountains,
created for enjoyment and health, without fail give their breasts
which sustain the life for men. Yea, the smallest of living things
come together in concord and peace.
1Clem 20:11
All these things the great Creator and Master of the universe ordered
to be in peace and concord, doing good unto all things, but far
beyond the rest unto us who have taken refuge in His compassionate
mercies through our Lord Jesus Christ,
1Clem 20:12
to whom be the glory and the majesty for ever and ever. Amen.
1Clem 21:1
 Look ye, brethren, lest His benefits, which are many, turn unto
judgment to all of us, if we walk not worthily of Him, and do those
things which are good and well pleasing in His sight with concord.
1Clem 21:2
For He saith in a certain place, The Spirit of the Lord is a lamp
searching the closets of the belly.
1Clem 21:3
Let us see how near He is, and how that nothing escapeth Him of our
thoughts or our devices which we make.
1Clem 21:4
It is right therefore that we should not be deserters from His will.
1Clem 21:5
Let us rather give offense to foolish and senseless men who exalt
themselves and boast in the arrogance of their words, than to God.
1Clem 21:6
Let us fear the Lord Jesus [Christ], whose blood was given for us.
Let us reverence our rulers; let us honor our elders; let us instruct
our young men in the lesson of the fear of God. Let us guide our
women toward that which is good:
1Clem 21:7
let them show forth their lovely disposition of purity; let them
prove their sincere affection of gentleness; let them make manifest
the moderation of their tongue through their silence; let them show
their love, not in factious preferences but without partiality
towards all them that fear God, in holiness. Let our children be
partakers of the instruction which is in Christ:
1Clem 21:8
let them learn how lowliness of mind prevaileth with God, what power
chaste love hath with God, how the fear of Him is good and great and
saveth all them that walk therein in a pure mind with holiness.
1Clem 21:9
For He is the searcher out of the intents and desires; whose breath
is in us, and when He listeth, He shall take it away.
1Clem 22:1
 Now all these things the faith which is in Christ confirmeth: for He
Himself through the Holy Spirit thus invite thus: Come, my
children, hearken unto Me, I will teach you the fear of the Lord.
1Clem 22:2
What man is he that desireth life and loveth to see good days?
1Clem 22:3
Make thy tongue to cease from evil, and thy lips that they speak no
guile.
1Clem 22:4
Turn aside from evil and do good.
1Clem 22:5
Seek peace and ensue it.
1Clem 22:6
The eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and His ears are
turned to their prayers. But the face of the Lord is upon them that
do evil, to destroy their memorial from the earth.
1Clem 22:7
The righteous cried out, and the Lord heard him, and delivered him
from all his troubles. Many are the troubles of the righteous, and
the Lord shall deliver him from them all.
1Clem 22:8
And again Many are the stripes of the sinner, but them that set
their hope on the Lord mercy shall compass about.
1Clem 23:1
 The Father, who is pitiful in all things, and ready to do good, hath
compassion on them that fear Him, and kindly and lovingly bestoweth
His favors on them that draw nigh unto Him with a single mind.
1Clem 23:2
Therefore let us not be double-minded, neither let our soul indulge in
idle humors respecting His exceeding and glorious gifts.
1Clem 23:3
Let this scripture be far from us where He saith Wretched are the
double-minded, Which doubt in their soul and say, These things we
did hear in the days of our fathers also, and behold we have grown
old, and none of these things hath befallen us.
1Clem 23:4
Ye fools, compare yourselves unto a tree; take a vine. First it
sheddeth its leaves, then a shoot cometh, then a leaf, then a
flower, and after these a sour berry, then a full ripe grape. Ye
see that in a little time the fruit of the tree attaineth unto
mellowness.
1Clem 23:5
Of a truth quickly and suddenly shall His will be accomplished, the
scripture also bearing witness to it, saying He shall come quickly
and shall not tarry; and the Lord shall come suddenly into His
temple, even the Holy One, whom ye expect.
1Clem 24:1
 Let us understand, dearly beloved, how the Master continually
showeth unto us the resurrection that shall be hereafter; whereof He
made the Lord Jesus Christ the firstfruit, when He raised Him from
the dead.
1Clem 24:2
Let us behold, dearly beloved, the resurrection which happeneth at
its proper season.
1Clem 24:3
Day and night show unto us the resurrection. The night falleth
asleep, and day ariseth; the day departeth, and night cometh on.
1Clem 24:4
Let us mark the fruits, how and in what manner the sowing taketh
place.
1Clem 24:5
The sower goeth forth and casteth into the earth each of the
seeds; and these falling into the earth dry and bare decay: then out
of their decay the mightiness of the Master's providence raiseth them
up, and from being one they increase manifold and bear fruit.
1Clem 25:1
 Let us consider the marvelous sign which is seen in the regions of
the east, that is, in the parts about Arabia.
1Clem 25:2
There is a bird, which is named the phoenix. This, being the only
one of its kind, liveth for five hundred years; and when it hath now
reached the time of its dissolution that it should die, it maketh for
itself a coffin of frankincense and myrrh and the other spices, into
the which in the fullness of time it entereth, and so it dieth.
1Clem 25:3
But, as the flesh rotteth, a certain worm is engendered, which is
nurtured from the moisture of the dead creature and putteth forth
wings. Then, when it is grown lusty, it taketh up that coffin where
are the bones of its parent, and carrying them journeyeth from the
country of Arabia even unto Egypt, to the place called the City of
the Sun;
1Clem 25:4
and in the daytime in the sight of all, flying to the altar of the
Sun, it layeth them thereupon; and this done, it setteth forth to
return.
1Clem 25:5
So the priests examine the registers of the times, and they find that
it hath come when the five hundredth year is completed.
1Clem 26:1
 Do we then think it to be a great and marvelous thing, if the
Creator of the universe shall bring about the resurrection of them
that have served Him with holiness in the assurance of a good faith,
seeing that He showeth to us even by a bird the magnificence of His
promise?
1Clem 26:2
For He saith in a certain place And Thou shalt raise me up, and I
will praise Thee; and; I went to rest and slept, I was awaked,
for Thou art with me.
1Clem 26:3
And again Job saith And Thou shall raise this my flesh which hath
endured all these things.
1Clem 27:1
 With this hope therefore let our souls be bound unto Him that is
faithful in His promises and that is righteous in His judgments.
1Clem 27:2
He that commanded not to lie, much more shall He Himself not lie:
for nothing is impossible with God save to lie.
1Clem 27:3
Therefore let our faith in Him be kindled within us, and let us
understand that all things are nigh unto Him.
1Clem 27:4
By a word of His majesty He compacted the universe; and by a word He
can destroy it.
1Clem 27:5
Who shall say unto Him, What hast thou done? or who shall resist
the might of His strength? When He listeth, and as He listeth, He
will do all things; and nothing shall pass away of those things that
He hath decreed.
1Clem 27:6
All things are in His sight, and nothing escapeth His counsel,
1Clem 27:7
seeing that The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament
proclaimeth His handiwork. Day uttereth word unto day, and night
proclaimeth knowledge unto night; and there are neither words nor
speeches, whose voices are not heard.
1Clem 28:1
 Since therefore all things are seen and heard, let us fear Him and
forsake the abominable lusts of evil works, that we maybe shielded by
His mercy from the coming judgments.
1Clem 28:2
For where can any of us escape from His strong hand? And what world
will receive any of them that desert from His service?
1Clem 28:3
For the holy writing saith in a certain place Where shall I go, and
where shall I be hidden from Thy face? If I ascend into the heaven,
Thou art there; if I depart into the farthest parts of the earth,
there is Thy right hand; if I make my bed in the depths, there is
Thy Spirit.
1Clem 28:4
Whither then shall one depart, or where shall one flee, from Him that
embraceth the universe?
1Clem 29:1
 Let us therefore approach Him in holiness of soul, lifting up pure
and undefiled hands unto Him, with love towards our gentle and
compassionate Father who made us an elect portion unto Himself.
1Clem 29:2
For
thus it is written: When the Most High divided the nations, when He
dispersed the sons of Adam, He fixed the boundaries of the nations
according to the number of the angels of God. His people Jacob
became the portion of the Lord, and Israel the measurement of His
inheritance.
1Clem 29:3
And in another place He saith, Behold, the Lord taketh for Himself
a nation out of the midst of the nations, as a man taketh the first
fruits of his threshing floor; and the holy of holies shall come
forth from that nation.
1Clem 30:1
 Seeing then that we are the special portion of a Holy God, let us do
all things that pertain unto holiness, forsaking evil speakings,
abominable and impure embraces, drunkennesses and tumults and hateful
lusts, abominable adultery, hateful pride.
1Clem 30:2
For God, He saith, resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the
lowly.
1Clem 30:3
Let us therefore cleave unto those to whom grace is given from God.
Let us clothe ourselves in concord, being lowlyminded and temperate,
holding ourselves aloof from all back biting and evil speaking, being
justified by works and not by words.
1Clem 30:4
For He saith, He that saith much shall hear also again. Doth the
ready talker think to be righteous?
1Clem 30:5
Blessed is the offspring of a woman that liveth but a short time.
Be not thou abundant in words.
1Clem 30:6
Let our praise be with God, and not of ourselves: for God hateth
them that praise themselves.
1Clem 30:7
Let the testimony to our well doing be given by others, as it was
given unto our fathers who were righteous.
1Clem 30:8
Boldness and arrogance and daring are for them that are accursed of
God; but forbearance and humility and gentleness are with them that
are blessed of God.
1Clem 31:1
 Let us therefore cleave unto His blessing, and let us see what are
the ways of blessing. Let us study the records of the things that
have happened from the beginning.
1Clem 31:2
Wherefore was our father Abraham blessed? Was it not because he
wrought righteousness and truth through faith?
1Clem 31:3
Isaac with confidence, as knowing the future, was led a willing
sacrifice.
1Clem 31:4
Jacob with humility departed from his land because of his brother,
and went unto Laban and served; and the twelve tribes of Israel were
given unto him.
1Clem 32:1
 If any man will consider them one by one in sincerity, he shall
understand the magnificence of the gifts that are given by Him.
1Clem 32:2
For of Jacob are all the priests and levites who minister unto the
altar of God; of him is the Lord Jesus as concerning the flesh; of
him are kings and rulers and governors in the line of Judah; yea and
the rest of his tribes are held in no small honor, seeing that God
promised saying, Thy seed shall be as the stars of heaven.
1Clem 32:3
They all therefore were glorified and magnified, not through
themselves or their own works or the righteous doing which they
wrought, but through His will.
1Clem 32:4
And so we, having been called through His will in Christ Jesus, are
not justified through ourselves or through our own wisdom or
understanding or piety or works which we wrought in holiness of
heart, but through faith, whereby the Almighty God justified all men
that have been from the beginning; to whom be the glory for ever and
ever. Amen.
1Clem 33:1
 What then must we do, brethren? Must we idly abstain from doing
good, and forsake love? May the Master never allow this to befall us
at least; but let us hasten with instancy and zeal to accomplish
every good work.
1Clem 33:2
For the Creator and Master of the universe Himself rejoiceth in His
works.
1Clem 33:3
For by His exceeding great might He established the heavens, and in
His incomprehensible wisdom He set them in order. And the earth He
separated from the water that surroundeth it, and He set it firm on
the sure foundation of His own will; and the living creatures which
walk upon it He commanded to exist by His ordinance. Having before
created the sea and the living creatures therein, He enclosed it by
His own power.
1Clem 33:4
Above all, as the most excellent and exceeding great work of His
intelligence, with His sacred and faultless hands He formed man in
the impress of His own image.
1Clem 33:5
For thus saith God Let us make man after our image and after our
likeness. And God made man; male and female made He them.
1Clem 33:6
So having finished all these things, He praised them and blessed them
and said, Increase and multiply.
1Clem 33:7
We have seen that all the righteous were adorned in good works. Yea,
and the Lord Himself having adorned Himself with worlds rejoiced.
1Clem 33:8
Seeing then that we have this pattern, let us conform ourselves with
all diligence to His will; let us with all our strength work the work
of righteousness.
1Clem 34:1
 The good workman receiveth the bread of his work with boldness, but
the slothful and careless dareth not look his employer in the face.
1Clem 34:2
It is therefore needful that we should be zealous unto well doing,
for of Him are all things:
1Clem 34:3
since He forewarneth us saying, Behold, the Lord, and His reward is
before His face, to recompense each man according to his work.
1Clem 34:4
He exhorteth us therefore to believe on Him with our whole heart, and
to be not idle nor careless unto every good work.
1Clem 34:5
Let our boast and our confidence be in Him: let us submit ourselves
to His will; let us mark the whole host of His angels, how they stand
by and minister unto His will.
1Clem 34:6
For the scripture saith, Ten thousands of ten thousands stood by
Him, and thousands of thousands ministered unto Him: and they cried
aloud, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of Sabaoth; all creation is
full of His glory.
1Clem 34:7
Yea, and let us ourselves then, being gathered together in concord
with intentness of heart, cry unto Him as from one mouth earnestly
that we may be made partakers of His great and glorious promises.
1Clem 34:8
For He saith, Eye hath not seen and ear hath not heard, and it hath
not entered into the heart of man what great things He hath
prepared for them that patiently await Him.
1Clem 35:1
 How blessed and marvelous are the gifts of God, dearly beloved!!
1Clem 35:2
Life in immortality, splendor in righteousness, truth in boldness,
faith in confidence, temperance in sanctification! And all these
things fall under our apprehension.
1Clem 35:3
What then, think ye, are the things preparing for them that patiently
await Him? The Creator and Father of the ages, the All holy One
Himself knoweth their number and their beauty.
1Clem 35:4
Let us therefore contend, that we may be found in the number of those
that patiently await Him, to the end that we may be partakers of His
promised gifts.
1Clem 35:5
But how shall this be, dearly beloved? If our mind be fixed through
faith towards God; if we seek out those things which are well
pleasing and acceptable unto Him; if we accomplish such things as
beseem His faultless will, and follow the way of truth, casting off
from ourselves all unrighteousness and iniquity, covetousness,
strifes, malignities and deceits, whisperings and backbitings, hatred
of God, pride and arrogance, vainglory and inhospitality.
1Clem 35:6
For they that do these things are hateful to God; and not only they
that do them, but they also that consent unto them.
1Clem 35:7
For the scripture saith, But unto the sinner said God, Wherefore
dost thou declare Mine ordinances, and takest My covenant upon thy
lips?
1Clem 35:8
Yet Thou didst hate instruction and didst cast away My words behind
thee. If thou sawest a thief thou didst keep company with him, and
with the adulterers thou didst set thy portion. Thy mouth
multiplied wickedness and thy tongue wove deceit. Thou sattest and
spakest against thy brother, and against the son of thy mother thou
didst lay a stumbling block.
1Clem 35:9
These things Thou hast done, and I kept silence. Thou thoughtest,
unrighteous man, that I should be like unto thee.
1Clem 35:10
I will convict thee and will set thee face to face with thyself.
1Clem 35:11
Now understand ye these things, ye that forget God, lest at any
time He seize you as a lion, and there be none to deliver.
1Clem 35:12
The sacrifice of praise shall glorify Me, and there is the way
wherein I will show him the salvation of God.
1Clem 36:1
 This is the way, dearly beloved, wherein we found our salvation,
even Jesus Christ the High priest of our offerings, the Guardian and
Helper of our weakness.
1Clem 36:2
Through Him let us look steadfastly unto the heights of the heavens;
through Him we behold as in a mirror His faultless and most excellent
visage; through Him the eyes of our hearts were opened; through Him
our foolish and darkened mind springeth up unto the light; through
Him the Master willed that we should taste of the immortal knowledge
Who being the brightness of His majesty is so much greater than
angels, as He hath inherited a more excellent name.
1Clem 36:3
For so it is written Who maketh His angels spirits and His
ministers aflame of fire
1Clem 36:4
but of His Son the Master said thus, Thou art My Son, I this day
have begotten thee. Ask of Me, and I will give Thee the Gentiles
for Thine inheritance, and the ends of the earth for Thy
possession.
1Clem 36:5
And again He saith unto Him Sit Thou on My right hand, until I make
Thine enemies a footstool for Thy feet.
1Clem 36:6
Who then are these enemies? They that are wicked and resist His
will.
1Clem 37:1
 Let us therefore enlist ourselves, brethren, with all earnestness in
His faultless ordinances.
1Clem 37:2
Let us mark the soldiers that are enlisted under our rulers, how
exactly, how readily, how submissively, they execute the orders given
them.
1Clem 37:3
All are not prefects, nor rulers of thousands, nor rulers of
hundreds, nor rulers of fifties, and so forth; but each man in his
own rank executeth the orders given by the king and the governors.
1Clem 37:4
The great without the small cannot exist, neither the small without
the great. There is a certain mixture in all things, and therein is
utility.
1Clem 37:5
Let us take our body as an example. The head without the feet is
nothing; so likewise the feet without the head are nothing: even the
smallest limbs of our body are necessary and useful for the whole
body: but all the members conspire and unite in subjection, that the
whole body maybe saved.
1Clem 38:1
 So in our case let the whole body be saved in Christ Jesus, and let
each man be subject unto his neighbor, according as also he was
appointed with his special grace.
1Clem 38:2
Let not the strong neglect the weak; and let the weak respect the
strong. Let the rich minister aid to the poor; and let the poor give
thanks to God, because He hath given him one through whom his wants
may be supplied. Let the wise display his wisdom, not in words, but
in good works. He that is lowly in mind, let him not bear testimony
to himself, but leave testimony to be borne to him by his neighbor.
He that is pure in the flesh, let him be so, and not boast, knowing
that it is Another who bestoweth his continence upon him.
1Clem 38:3
Let us consider, brethren, of what matter we were made; who and what
manner of beings we were, when we came into the world; from what a
sepulchre and what darkness He that molded and created us brought us
into His world, having prepared His benefits aforehand ere ever we
were born.
1Clem 38:4
Seeing therefore that we have all these things from Him, we ought in
all things to give thanks to Him, to whom be the glory for ever and
ever. Amen.
1Clem 39:1
 Senseless and stupid and foolish and ignorant men jeer and mock at
us, desiring that they themselves should be exalted in their
imaginations.
1Clem 39:2
For what power hath a mortal? or what strength hath a child of earth?
1Clem 39:3
For it is written; There was no form before mine eyes; only I heard
a breath and a voice.
1Clem 39:4
What then? Shall a mortal be clean in the sight of the Lord; or
shall a man be unblamable for his works? seeing that He is
distrustful against His servants and noteth some perversity against
His angels.
1Clem 39:5
Nay, the heaven is not clean in His sight. Away then, ye that dwell
in houses of clay, whereof, even of the same clay, we ourselves are
made. He smote them like a moth, and from morn to even they are no
more. Because they could not succor themselves, they perished.
1Clem 39:6
He breathed on them and they died, because they had no wisdom.
1Clem 39:7
But call thou, if perchance one shall obey thee, or if thou shalt
see one of the holy angels. For wrath killeth the foolish man, and
envy slayeth him that has gone astray.
1Clem 39:8
And I have seen fools throwing out roots, but forthwith their
habitation was eaten up.
1Clem 39:9
Far be their sons from safety. May they be mocked at the gates of
inferiors, and there shall be none to deliver them. For the things
which are prepared for them, the righteous shall eat; but they
themselves shall not be delivered from evils.
1Clem 40:1
 Forasmuch then as these things are manifest beforehand, and we have
searched into the depths of the Divine knowledge, we ought to do all
things in order, as many as the Master hath commanded us to perform
at their appointed seasons.
1Clem 40:2
Now the offerings and ministrations He commanded to be performed with
care, and not to be done rashly or in disorder, but at fixed times
and seasons.
1Clem 40:3
And where and by whom He would have them performed, He Himself fixed
by His supreme will: that all things being done with piety according
to His good pleasure might be acceptable to His will.
1Clem 40:4
They therefore that make their offerings at the appointed seasons are
acceptable and blessed: for while they follow the institutions of
the Master they cannot go wrong.
1Clem 40:5
For unto the high priest his proper services have been assigned, and
to the priests their proper office is appointed, and upon the levites
their proper ministrations are laid. The layman is bound by the
layman's ordinances.
1Clem 41:1
 Let each of you, brethren, in his own order give thanks unto God,
maintaining a good conscience and not transgressing the appointed
rule of his service, but acting with all seemliness.
1Clem 41:2
Not in every place, brethren, are the continual daily sacrifices
offered, or the freewill offerings, or the sin offerings and the
trespass offerings, but in Jerusalem alone. And even there the
offering is not made in every place, but before the sanctuary in the
court of the altar; and this too through the high priest and the afore
said ministers, after that the victim to be offered hath been
inspected for blemishes.
1Clem 41:3
They therefore who do any thing contrary to the seemly ordinance of
His will receive death as the penalty.
1Clem 41:4
Ye see, brethren, in proportion as greater knowledge hath been
vouchsafed unto us, so much the more are we exposed to danger.
1Clem 42:1
 The Apostles received the Gospel for us from the Lord Jesus
Christ; Jesus Christ was sent forth from God.
1Clem 42:2
So then Christ is from God, and the Apostles are from Christ. Both
therefore came of the will of God in the appointed order.
1Clem 42:3
Having therefore received a charge, and having been fully assured
through the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ and confirmed in
the word of God with full assurance of the Holy Ghost, they went
forth with the glad tidings that the kingdom of God should come.
1Clem 42:4
So preaching everywhere in country and town, they appointed their
firstfruits, when they had proved them by the Spirit, to be bishops
and deacons unto them that should believe.
1Clem 42:5
And this they did in no new fashion; for indeed it had been written
concerning bishops and deacons from very ancient times; for thus
saith the scripture in a certain place, I will appoint their
bishops in righteousness and their deacons in faith.
1Clem 43:1
 And what marvel, if they which were entrusted in Christ with such a
work by God appointed the aforesaid persons? seeing that even the
blessed Moses who was a faithful servant in all His house recorded
for a sign in the sacred books all things that were enjoined upon
him. And him also the rest of the prophets followed, bearing witness
with him unto the laws that were ordained by him.
1Clem 43:2
For he, when jealousy arose concerning the priesthood, and there was
dissension among the tribes which of them was adorned with the
glorious name, commanded the twelve chiefs of the tribes to bring to
him rods inscribed with the name of each tribe. And he took them and
tied them and sealed them with the signet rings of the chiefs of the
tribes, and put them away in the tabernacle of the testimony on the
table of God.
1Clem 43:3
And having shut the tabernacle he sealed the keys and likewise also
the doors.
1Clem 43:4
And he said unto them, Brethren, the tribe whose rod shall bud, this
hath God chosen to be priests and ministers unto Him.
1Clem 43:5
Now when morning came, he called together all Israel, even the six
hundred thousand men, and showed the seals to the chiefs of the
tribes and opened the tabernacle of the testimony and drew forth the
rods. And the rod of Aaron was found not only with buds, but also
bearing fruit.
1Clem 43:6
What think ye, dearly beloved? Did not Moses know beforehand that
this would come to pass? Assuredly he knew it. But that disorder
might not arise in Israel, he did thus, to the end that the Name of
the true and only God might be glorified: to whom he the glory for
ever and ever. Amen...
1Clem 44:1
 And our Apostles knew through our Lord Jesus Christ that there would
be strife over the name of the bishop's office.
1Clem 44:2
For this cause therefore, having received complete foreknowledge,
they appointed the aforesaid persons, and afterwards they provided a
continuance, that if these should fall asleep, other approved men
should succeed to their ministration. Those therefore who were
appointed by them, or afterward by other men of repute with the
consent of the whole Church, and have ministered unblamably to the
flock of Christ in lowliness of mind, peacefully and with all
modesty, and for long time have borne a good report with all these
men we consider to be unjustly thrust out from their ministration.
1Clem 44:3
For it will be no light sin for us, if we thrust out those who have
offered the gifts of the bishop's office unblamably and holily.
1Clem 44:4
Blessed are those presbyters who have gone before, seeing that their
departure was fruitful and ripe: for they have no fear lest any one
should remove them from their appointed place.
1Clem 44:5
For we see that ye have displaced certain persons, though they were
living honorably, from the ministration which had been respected by
them blamelessly.
1Clem 45:1
 Be ye contentious, brethren, and jealous about the things that
pertain unto salvation.
1Clem 45:2
Ye have searched the scriptures, which are true, which were given
through the Holy Ghost;
1Clem 45:3
and ye know that nothing unrighteous or counterfeit is written in
them. Ye will not find that righteous persons have been thrust out
by holy men.
1Clem 45:4
Righteous men were persecuted, but it was by the lawless; they were
imprisoned, but it was by the unholy. They were stoned by
transgressors: they were slain by those who had conceived a
detestable and unrighteous jealousy.
1Clem 45:5
Suffering these things, they endured nobly.
1Clem 45:6
For what must we say, brethren? Was Daniel cast into the lions' den
by them that feared God?
1Clem 45:7
Or were Ananias and Azarias and Misael shut up in the furnace of fire
by them that professed the excellent and glorious worship of the Most
High? Far be this from our thoughts. Who then were they that did
these things? Abominable men and full of all wickedness were stirred
up to such a pitch of wrath, as to bring cruel suffering upon them
that served God in a holy and blameless purpose, not knowing that the
Most High is the champion and protector of them that in a pure
conscience serve His excellent Name: unto whom be the glory for ever
and ever. Amen.
1Clem 45:8
But they that endured patiently in confidence
inherited glory and honor; they were exalted, and had their names
recorded by God in their memorial for ever and ever. Amen.
1Clem 46:1
 To such examples as these therefore, brethren, we also ought to
cleave.
1Clem 46:2
For it is written; Cleave unto the saints, for they that cleave
unto them shall be sanctified.
1Clem 46:3
And again He saith in another place; With the guiltless man thou
shalt be guiltless, and with the elect thou shalt be elect, and
with the crooked thou shalt deal crookedly.
1Clem 46:4
Let us therefore cleave to the guiltless and righteous: and these
are the elect of God.
1Clem 46:5
Wherefore are there strifes and wraths and factions and divisions and
war among you?
1Clem 46:6
Have we not one God and one Christ and one Spirit of grace that was
shed upon us? And is there not one calling in Christ?
1Clem 46:7
Wherefore do we tear and rend asunder the members of Christ, and stir
up factions against our own body, and reach such a pitch of folly, as
to forget that we are members one of another?
1Clem 46:8
Remember the words of Jesus our Lord: for He said, Woe unto that
man; it were good for him if he had not been born, rather than that
at he should offend one of Mine elect. It were better for him that
a millstone were hanged about him, and be cast into the sea, than
that he should pervert one of Mine elect.
1Clem 46:9
Your division hath perverted many; it hath brought many to despair,
many to doubting, and all of us to sorrow. And your sedition still
continueth.
1Clem 47:1
 Take up the epistle of the blessed Paul the Apostle.
1Clem 47:2
What wrote he first unto you in the beginning of the Gospel?
1Clem 47:3
Of a truth he charged you in the Spirit concerning himself and Cephas
and Apollos, because that even then ye had made parties.
1Clem 47:4
Yet that making of parties brought less sin upon you; for ye were
partisans of Apostles that were highly reputed, and of a man approved
in their sight.
1Clem 47:5
But now mark ye, who they are that have perverted you and diminished
the glory of your renowned love for the brotherhood.
1Clem 47:6
It is shameful, dearly beloved, yes, utterly shameful and unworthy of
your conduct in Christ, that it should be reported that the very
steadfast and ancient Church of the Corinthians, for the sake of one
or two persons, maketh sedition against its presbyters.
1Clem 47:7
And this report hath reached not only us, but them also which differ
from us, so that ye even heap blasphemies on the Name of the Lord by
reason of your folly, and moreover create peril for yourselves.
1Clem 48:1
 Let us therefore root this out quickly, and let us fall down before
the Master and entreat Him with tears, that He may show Himself
propitious and be reconciled unto us, and may restore us to the
seemly and pure conduct which belongeth to our love of the brethren.
1Clem 48:2
For this is a gate of righteousness opened unto life, as it is
written; Open me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter in
thereby and preach the Lord.
1Clem 48:3
This is the gate of the Lord; the righteous shall enter in
thereby.
1Clem 48:4
Seeing then that many gates are opened, this is that gate which is in
righteousness, even that which is in Christ, whereby all are blessed
that have entered in and direct their path in holiness and
righteousness, performing all things without confusion.
1Clem 48:5
Let a man be faithful, let him be able to expound a deep saying, let
him be wise in the discernment of words, let him be strenuous in
deeds, let him be pure;
1Clem 48:6
for so much the more ought he to be lowly in mind, in proportion as
he seemeth to be the greater; and he ought to seek the common
advantage of all, and not his own.
1Clem 49:1
 Let him that hath love in Christ fulfill the commandments of Christ.
1Clem 49:2
Who can declare the bond of the love of God?
1Clem 49:3
Who is sufficient to tell the majesty of its beauty?
1Clem 49:4
The height, where unto love exalteth, is unspeakable.
1Clem 49:5
Love joineth us unto God; love covereth a multitude of sins; love
endureth all things, is long-suffering in all things. There is
nothing coarse, nothing arrogant in love. Love hath no divisions,
love maketh no seditions, love doeth all things in concord. In love
were all the elect of God made perfect; without love nothing is well
pleasing to God:
1Clem 49:6
in love the Master took us unto Himself; for the
love which He had toward us, Jesus Christ our Lord hath given His
blood for us by the will of God, and His flesh for our flesh and His
life for our lives.
1Clem 50:1
 Ye see, dearly beloved, how great and marvelous a thing is love, and
there is no declaring its perfection.
1Clem 50:2
Who is sufficient to be found therein, save those to whom God shall
vouchsafe it? Let us therefore entreat and ask of His mercy, that we
may be found blameless in love, standing apart from the factiousness
of men. All the generations from Adam unto this day have passed
away: but they that by God's grace were perfected in love dwell in
the abode of the pious; and they shall be made manifest in the
visitation of the Kingdom of God.
1Clem 50:3
For it is written; Enter into the closet for a very little while
until Mine anger and Mine wrath shall pass away, and I will
remember a good day and will raise you from your tombs.
1Clem 50:4
Blessed were we, dearly beloved, if we should be doing the
commandments of God in concord of love, to the end that our sins may
through love be forgiven us.
1Clem 50:5
For it is written; Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven,
and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord
shall impute no sin, neither is guile in his mouth.
1Clem 50:6
This declaration of blessedness was pronounced upon them that have
been elected by God through Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom be the
glory for ever and ever. Amen.
1Clem 51:1
 For all our transgressions which we have committed through any of
the wiles of the adversary, let us entreat that we may obtain
forgiveness. Yea and they also, who set themselves up as leaders of
faction and division, ought to look to the common ground of hope.
1Clem 51:2
For such as walk in fear and love desire that they themselves should
fall into suffering rather than their neighbors; and they pronounce
condemnation against themselves rather than against the harmony which
hath been handed down to us nobly and righteously.
1Clem 51:3
For it is good for a man to make confession of his trespasses rather
than to harden his heart, as the heart of those was hardened who made
sedition against Moses the servant of God; whose condemnation was
clearly manifest,
1Clem 51:4
for they went down to hades alive, and Death shall be their
shepherd.
1Clem 51:5
Pharaoh and his host and all the rulers of Egypt, their chariots
and their horsemen, were overwhelmed in the depths of the Red Sea,
and perished for none other reason but because their foolish hearts
were hardened after that the signs and the wonders had been wrought
in the land of Egypt by the hand of Moses the servant of God.
1Clem 52:1
 The Master, brethren, hath need of nothing at all. He desireth not
anything of any man, save to confess unto Him.
1Clem 52:2
For the elect David saith; I will confess unto the Lord, and it
shall please Him more than a young calf that groweth horns and
hoofs. Let the poor see it, and rejoice.
1Clem 52:3
And again He saith; Sacrifice to God a sacrifice of praise, and pay
thy vows to the Most High: and call upon Me in the day of thine
affliction, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me.

1Clem 52:4
For a sacrifice unto God is a broken spirit.
1Clem 53:1
 For ye know, and know well, the sacred scriptures, dearly beloved,
and ye have searched into the oracles of God. We write these things
therefore to put you in remembrance.
1Clem 53:2
When Moses went up into the mountain and had spent forty days and
forty nights in fasting and humiliation, God said unto him; Moses,
Moses, come down , quickly hence, for My people whom thou leadest
forth from the land of Egypt have wrought iniquity: they have
transgressed quickly out of the way which thou didst command unto
them: they have made for themselves molten images.

1Clem 53:3
And the Lord said unto him; I have spoken unto thee once and twice,
saying, I have seen this people, and behold it is stiff-necked. Let
Me destroy them utterly, and I will blot out their name from under
heaven, and I will make of thee a nation great and wonderful and
numerous more than this.
1Clem 53:4
And Moses said; Nay, not so, Lord Forgive this people their sin, or
blot me also out of the book of the living.
1Clem 53:5
O mighty love! O unsurpassable perfection! The servant is bold with
his Master; he asketh forgiveness for the multitude, or he demandeth
that himself also be blotted out with them.
1Clem 54:1
 Who therefore is noble among you? Who is compassionate? Who is
fulfilled with love?
1Clem 54:2
Let him say; If by reason of me there be faction and strife and
divisions, I retire, I depart, whither ye will, and I do that which
is ordered by the people: only let the flock of Christ be at peace
with its duly appointed presbyters.
1Clem 54:3
He that shall have done this, shall win for himself great renown in
Christ, and every place will receive him: for the earth is the
Lord's and the fullness thereof.
1Clem 54:4
Thus have they done and will do, that live as citizens of that
kingdom of God which bringeth no regrets.
1Clem 55:1
 But, to bring forward examples of Gentiles also; many kings and
rulers, when some season of pestilence pressed upon them, being
taught by oracles have delivered themselves over to death, that they
might rescue their fellow citizens through their own blood. Many
have retired from their own cities, that they might have no more
seditions.
1Clem 55:2
We know that many among ourselves have delivered themselves to
bondage, that they might ransom others. Many have sold themselves to
slavery, and receiving the price paid for themselves have fed others.
1Clem 55:3
Many women being strengthened through the grace of God have
performed many manly deeds.
1Clem 55:4
The blessed Judith, when the city was beleaguered, asked of the
elders that she might be suffered to go forth into the camp of the
aliens.
1Clem 55:5
So she exposed herself to peril and went forth for love of her
country and of her people which were beleaguered; and the Lord
delivered Holophernes into the hand of a woman.
1Clem 55:6
To no less peril did Esther also, who was perfect in faith, expose
herself, that she might deliver the twelve tribes of Israel, when
they were on the point to perish. For through her fasting and her
humiliation she entreated the all seeing Master, the God of the
ages; and He, seeing the humility of her soul, delivered the people
for whose sake she encountered the peril.
1Clem 56:1
 Therefore let us also make intercession for them that are in any
transgression, that forbearance and humility may be given them, to
the end that they may yield not unto us, but unto the will of God.
For so shall the compassionate remembrance of them with God and the
saints be fruitful unto them, and perfect.
1Clem 56:2
Let us accept chastisement, whereat no man ought to be vexed, dearly
beloved. The admonition which we give one to another is good and
exceeding useful; for it joineth us unto the will of God.
1Clem 56:3
For thus saith the holy word; The Lord hath indeed chastened me,
and hath not delivered me over unto death.
1Clem 56:4
For whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth, and scourgeth every son
whom He receiveth.
1Clem 56:5
For the righteous, it is said, shall chasten me in mercy and
shall reprove me, but let not the mercy of sinners anoint my head.
1Clem 56:6
And again He saith; Blessed is the man whom the Lord hath reproved,
and refuse not thou the admonition of the Almighty. For He causeth
pain, and he restoreth again:
1Clem 56:7
He hath smitten, and His hands have healed.
1Clem 56:8
Six times shall He rescue thee from afflictions and at the seventh
no evil shall touch thee.
1Clem 56:9
In famine he shall deliver thee from death, and in war He shall
release thee from the arm of the sword.
1Clem 56:10
And from the scourge of the tongue He shall hide thee and thou
shalt not be afraid when evils approach.
1Clem 56:11
Thou shalt laugh at the unrighteous and wicked, and of the wild
beasts thou shalt not be afraid.
1Clem 56:12
For wild beasts shall be at peace with thee.
1Clem 56:13
Then shalt thou know that thy house shall be at peace: and the
abode of thy tabernacle shall not go wrong,
1Clem 56:14
and thou shalt know that thy seed is many, and thy children as the
plenteous herbage of the field.
1Clem 56:15
And thou shalt come to the grave as ripe corn reaped in due season,
or as the heap of the threshing floor gathered together at the
right time.
1Clem 56:16
Ye see, dearly beloved, how great protection there is for them that
are chastened by the Master: for being a kind father He chasteneth
us to the end that we may obtain mercy through His holy chastisement.
1Clem 57:1
 Ye therefore that laid the foundation of the sedition, submit
yourselves unto the presbyters and receive chastisement unto
repentance, bending the knees of your heart.
1Clem 57:2
Learn to submit yourselves, laying aside the arrogant and proud
stubbornness of your tongue. For it is better for you to be found
little in the flock of Christ and to have your name on God's roll,
than to be had in exceeding honor and yet be cast out from the hope
of Him.
1Clem 57:3
For thus saith the All virtuous Wisdom; Behold I will pour out for
you a saying of My breath, and I will teach you My word.
1Clem 57:4
Because I called and ye obeyed not, and I held out words and ye
heeded not, but made My councils of none effect, and were
disobedient unto My reproofs; therefore I also will laugh at your
destruction, and will rejoice over you when ruin cometh upon you,
and when confusion overtaketh you suddenly, and your overthrow is
at hand like a whirlwind,
1Clem 57:5
or when ye call upon Me, yet will I not here you. Evil men shall
seek me and not find me: for they hated wisdom, and chose not the
fear of the Lord, neither would they give head unto My councils,
but mocked at My reproofs.
1Clem 57:6
Therefore they shall eat the fruits of their own way, and shall be
filled with their own ungodliness.
1Clem 57:7
For because they wronged babes, they shall be slain, and
inquisition shall destroy the ungodly. But he that heareth Me shall
dwell safely trusting in hope, and shall be quiet from all fear of
all evil.
1Clem 58:1
 Let us therefore be obedient unto His most holy and glorious Name,
thereby escaping the threatenings which were spoken of old by the
mouth of Wisdom against them which disobey, that we may dwell safely,
trusting in the most holy Name of His majesty.
1Clem 58:2
Receive our counsel, and ye shall have no occasion of regret. For as
God liveth, and the Lord Jesus Christ liveth, and the Holy Spirit,
who are the faith and the hope of the elect, so surely shall he, who
with lowliness of mind and instant in gentleness hath without
regretfulness performed the ordinances and commandments that are
given by God, be enrolled and have a name among the number of them
that are saved through Jesus Christ, through whom is the glory unto
Him for ever and ever. Amen.
1Clem 59:1
 But if certain persons should be disobedient unto the words spoken
by Him through us, let them understand that they will entangle
themselves in no slight transgression and danger;
1Clem 59:2
but we shall be guiltless of this sin. And we will ask, with
instancy of prayer and supplication, that the Creator of the universe
may guard intact unto the end the number that hath been numbered of
His elect throughout the whole world, through His beloved Son Jesus
Christ, through whom He called us from darkness to light, from
ignorance to the full knowledge of the glory of His Name.
1Clem 59:3
 [Grant unto us, Lord,] that we may set our hope on Thy Name which is
the primal source of all creation, and open the eyes of our hearts,
that we may know Thee, who alone abidest Highest in the lofty, Holy
in the holy; who layest low in the insolence of the proud, who
settest the lowly on high, and bringest the lofty low; who
makest rich and makest poor; who killest and makest alive; who
alone art the Benefactor of spirits and the God of all flesh; who
lookest into the abysses, who scanest the works of man; the Succor
of them that are in peril, the Savior of them that are in 
despair; The Creator and Overseer of every spirit; who multipliest
the nations upon earth, and hast chosen out from all men those that
love Thee through Jesus Christ, Thy beloved Son, through whom Thou
didst instruct us, didst sanctify us, didst honor us.
1Clem 59:4
We beseech Thee, Lord and Master, to be our help and succor. Save
those among us who are in tribulation; have mercy on the lowly; lift
up the fallen; show Thyself unto the needy; heal the ungodly; convert
the wanderers of Thy people; feed the hungry; release our prisoners;
raise up the weak; comfort the fainthearted. Let all the Gentiles
know that Thou art the God alone, and Jesus Christ is Thy Son, and
we are Thy people and the sheep of Thy pasture.
1Clem 60:1
 Thou through Thine operations didst make manifest the everlasting
fabric of the world. Thou, Lord, didst create the earth. Thou that
art faithful throughout all generations, righteous in Thy judgments,
marvelous in strength and excellence, Thou that art wise in creating
and prudent in establishing that which Thou hast made, that art good
in the things which are seen and faithful with them that trust on
Thee, pitiful and compassionate, forgive us our iniquities and our
unrighteousnesses and our transgressions and shortcomings.
1Clem 60:2
Lay not to our account every sin of Thy servants and Thine handmaids,
but cleanse us with the cleansing of Thy truth, and guide our steps
to walk in holiness and righteousness and singleness of heart
and to do such things as are good and well pleasing in Thy sight
and in the sight of our rulers.
1Clem 60:3
Yea, Lord, make Thy face to shine upon us in peace for our good,
that we may be sheltered by Thy mighty hand and delivered from
every sin by Thine uplifted arm. And deliver us from them that
hate us wrongfully.
1Clem 60:4
Give concord and peace to us and to all that dwell on the earth, as
Thou gavest to our fathers, when they called on Thee in faith
and truth with holiness, [that we may be saved,] while we render
obedience to Thine almighty and most excellent Name, and to our
rulers and governors upon the earth.
1Clem 61:1
 Thou, Lord and Master, hast given them the power of sovereignty
through Thine excellent and unspeakable might, that we knowing the
glory and honor which Thou hast given them may submit ourselves unto
them, in nothing resisting Thy will. Grant unto them therefore, O
Lord, health peace, concord, stability, that they may administer the
government which Thou hast given them without failure.
1Clem 61:2
For Thou, O heavenly Master, King of the ages, givest to the sons of
men glory and honor and power over all things that are upon the
earth. Do Thou, Lord, direct their counsel according to that which
is good and well pleasing in Thy sight, that, administering in peace
and gentleness with Godliness the power which Thou hast given them,
they may obtain Thy favor.
1Clem 61:3
O Thou, who alone art able to do these things and things far more
exceeding good than these for us, we praise Thee through the High
priest and Guardian of our souls, Jesus Christ, through whom be the
glory and the majesty unto Thee both now and for all generations and
for ever and ever. Amen.
1Clem 62:1
 As touching those things which befit our religion and are most
useful for a virtuous life to such as would guide [their steps] in
holiness and righteousness, we have written fully unto you, brethren.
1Clem 62:2
For concerning faith and repentance and genuine love and temperance
and sobriety and patience we have handled every argument, putting you
in remembrance, that ye ought to please Almighty God in righteousness
and truth and long suffering with holiness, laying aside malice and
pursuing concord in love and peace, being instant in gentleness; even
as our fathers, of whom we spake before, pleased Him, being lowly
minded toward their Father and God and Creator and towards all men.
1Clem 62:3
And we have put you in mind of these things the more gladly, since we
knew well that we were writing to men who are faithful and highly
accounted and have diligently searched into the oracles of the
teaching of God.
1Clem 63:1
 Therefore it is right for us to give heed to so great and so many
examples and to submit the neck and occupying the place of obedience
to take our side with them that are the leaders of our souls, that
ceasing from this foolish dissension we may attain unto the goal
which lieth before us in truthfulness, keeping aloof from every
fault.
1Clem 63:2
For ye will give us great joy and gladness, if ye render obedience
unto the things written by us through the Holy Spirit, and root out
the unrighteous anger of your jealousy, according to the entreaty
which we have made for peace and concord in this letter.
1Clem 63:3
And we have also sent faithful and prudent men that have walked among
us from youth unto old age unblamably, who shall also be witnesses
between you and us.
1Clem 63:4
And this we have done that ye might know that we have had, and still
have, every solicitude that ye should be speedily at peace.
1Clem 64:1
 Finally may the All seeing God and Master of spirits and Lord of all
flesh, who chose the Lord Jesus Christ, and us through Him for a
peculiar people, grant unto every soul that is called after His
excellent and holy Name faith, fear, peace, patience, long-suffering,
temperance, chastity and soberness, that they may be well pleasing
unto His Name through our High priest and Guardian Jesus Christ,
through whom unto Him be glory and majesty, might and honor, both now
and for ever and ever. Amen.
1Clem 65:1
 Now send ye back speedily unto us our messengers Claudius Ephebus
and Valerius Bito, together with Fortunatus also, in peace and with
joy, to the end that they may the more quickly report the peace and
concord which is prayed for and earnestly desired by us, that we also
may the more speedily rejoice over your good order.
1Clem 65:2
 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you and with all men in
all places who have been called by God and through Him, through whom
be glory and honor, power and greatness and eternal dominion, unto
Him, from the ages past and forever and ever. Amen.

