
1 Corinthians












Paul's First Letter to the Corinthians 

1:1Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus 
Christ through the will of God, and our brother Sosthenes, 1:2to the assembly of 
God which is at Corinth; those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be 
saints, with all who call on the name of our Lord Jesus Christ in every place, 
both theirs and ours: 1:3Grace to you and peace from God our 
Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
1:4I always thank my God concerning you, 
for the grace of God which was given you in Christ Jesus; 1:5that in everything 
you were enriched in him, in all speech and all knowledge; 1:6even as the 
testimony of Christ was confirmed in you: 1:7so that you come behind in no gift; 
waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ; 1:8who will also 
confirm you until the end, blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. 1:9God 
is faithful, through whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus 
Christ, our Lord. 1:10Now I beg you, brothers, through the 
name of our Lord, Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing and that there 
be no divisions among you, but that you be perfected together in the same mind 
and in the same judgment. 1:11For it has been reported to me 
concerning you, my brothers, by those who are from Chloe's household, that there 
are contentions among you. 1:12Now I mean this, that each one of you 
says, "I follow Paul," "I follow Apollos," "I follow Cephas," and, "I follow 
Christ." 1:13Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified 
for you? Or were you baptized into the name of Paul? 1:14I thank God that I 
baptized none of you, except Crispus and Gaius, 1:15so that no one 
should say that I had baptized you into my own name. 1:16(I also baptized 
the household of Stephanas; besides them, I don't know whether I baptized any 
other.) 1:17For Christ sent me not to baptize, but 
to preach the Gospel--not in wisdom of words, so that the cross of Christ 
wouldn't be made void. 1:18For the word of the cross is 
foolishness to those who are dying, but to us who are saved it is the power of 
God. 1:19For it is written, 
 "I will destroy the wisdom of the 
wise,      I will bring the discernment of the 
discerning to nothing." 
1:20Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? 
Where is the lawyer of this world? Hasn't God made foolish the wisdom of this 
world? 1:21For seeing that in the wisdom of God, 
the world through its wisdom didn't know God, it was God's good pleasure through 
the foolishness of the preaching to save those who believe. 1:22For Jews ask for 
signs, Greeks seek after wisdom, 1:23but we preach Christ crucified; a 
stumbling block to Jews, and foolishness to Greeks, 1:24but to those who 
are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of 
God. 1:25Because the foolishness of God is wiser 
than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. 1:26For you see your 
calling, brothers, that not many are wise according to the flesh, not many 
mighty, and not many noble; 1:27but God chose the foolish things of the 
world that he might put to shame those who are wise. God chose the weak things 
of the world, that he might put to shame the things that are strong; 1:28and God chose the lowly things of the 
world, and the things that are despised, and the things that are not, that he 
might bring to nothing the things that are: 1:29that no flesh 
should boast before God. 1:30But of him, you are in Christ Jesus, 
who was made to us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification, and 
redemption: 1:31that, according as it is written, "He 
who boasts, let him boast in the Lord." 
2:1When I came to you, brothers, I didn't 
come with excellence of speech or of wisdom, proclaiming to you the testimony of 
God. 2:2For I determined not to know anything 
among you, except Jesus Christ, and him crucified. 2:3I was with you in 
weakness, in fear, and in much trembling. 2:4My speech and my preaching were not in 
persuasive words of human wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of 
power, 2:5that your faith wouldn't stand in the 
wisdom of men, but in the power of God. 2:6We speak wisdom, however, among those 
who are full grown; yet a wisdom not of this world, nor of the rulers of this 
world, who are coming to nothing. 2:7But we speak God's wisdom in a mystery, 
the wisdom that has been hidden, which God foreordained before the worlds for 
our glory, 2:8which none of the rulers of this world 
has known. For had they known it, they wouldn't have crucified the Lord of 
glory. 2:9But as it is written, 
 "Things which an eye didn't see, and an ear didn't 
hear,      Which didn't enter into the heart 
of man, 
 These God has prepared for those who love him." 
2:10But to us, God revealed them through 
the Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yes, the deep things of God. 2:11For who among men knows the things of a 
man, except the spirit of the man, which is in him? Even so, no one knows the 
things of God, except God's Spirit. 2:12But we received, not the spirit of the 
world, but the Spirit which is from God, that we might know the things that were 
freely given to us by God. 2:13Which things also we speak, not in 
words which man's wisdom teaches, but which the Holy Spirit teaches, comparing 
spiritual things with spiritual things. 2:14Now the natural man doesn't receive the 
things of God's Spirit, for they are foolishness to him, and he can't know them, 
because they are spiritually discerned. 2:15But he who is spiritual discerns all 
things, and he himself is judged by no one. 2:16"For who has known 
the mind of the Lord, that he should instruct him?" But we have Christ's mind. 
3:1Brothers, I couldn't speak to you as to 
spiritual, but as to fleshly, as to babies in Christ. 3:2I fed you with milk, 
not with meat; for you weren't yet ready. Indeed, not even now are you ready, 3:3for 
you are still fleshly. For insofar as there is jealousy, strife, and factions 
among you, aren't you fleshly, and don't you walk in the ways of men? 3:4For 
when one says, "I follow Paul," and another, "I follow Apollos," aren't you 
fleshly? 3:5Who then is Apollos, and who is Paul, 
but servants through whom you believed; and each as the Lord gave to him? 3:6I 
planted. Apollos watered. But God gave the increase. 3:7So then neither he 
who plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God who gives the increase. 3:8Now 
he who plants and he who waters are the same, but each will receive his own 
reward according to his own labor. 3:9For we are God's fellow workers. You are 
God's farming, God's building. 3:10According to the grace of God which was 
given to me, as a wise master builder I laid a foundation, and another builds on 
it. But let each man be careful how he builds on it. 3:11For no one can lay 
any other foundation than that which has been laid, which is Jesus Christ. 3:12But if anyone builds on the foundation 
with gold, silver, costly stones, wood, hay, or stubble; 3:13each man's work 
will be revealed. For the Day will declare it, because it is revealed in fire; 
and the fire itself will test what sort of work each man's work is. 3:14If 
any man's work remains which he built on it, he will receive a reward. 3:15If 
any man's work is burned, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, but 
as through fire. 
3:16Don't you know that you are a temple of 
God, and that God's Spirit lives in you? 3:17If anyone destroys the temple of God, 
God will destroy him; for God's temple is holy, which you are. 3:18Let no one deceive himself. If anyone 
thinks that he is wise among you in this world, let him become a fool, that he 
may become wise. 3:19For the wisdom of this world is 
foolishness with God. For it is written, "He has taken the wise in their 
craftiness." 3:20And again, "The Lord knows the 
reasoning of the wise, that it is worthless." 3:21Therefore let no 
one boast in men. For all things are yours, 3:22whether Paul, or 
Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or 
things to come. All are yours, 3:23and you are Christ's, and Christ is 
God's. 
4:1So let a man think of us as Christ's 
servants, and stewards of God's mysteries. 4:2Here, moreover, it 
is required of stewards, that they be found faithful. 4:3But with me it is a 
very small thing that I should be judged by you, or by man's judgment. Yes, I 
don't judge my own self. 4:4For I know nothing against myself. Yet I 
am not justified by this, but he who judges me is the Lord. 4:5Therefore judge 
nothing before the time, until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the 
hidden things of darkness, and reveal the counsels of the hearts. Then each man 
will get his praise from God. 
4:6Now these things, brothers, I have in a 
figure transferred to myself and Apollos for your sakes, that in us you might 
learn not to think beyond the things which are written, that none of you be 
puffed up against one another. 4:7For who makes you different? And what do 
you have that you didn't receive? But if you did receive it, why do you boast as 
if you had not received it? 4:8You are already filled. You have already 
become rich. You have come to reign without us. Yes, and I wish that you did 
reign, that we also might reign with you. 4:9For, I think that God has displayed us, 
the apostles, last of all, like men sentenced to death. For we are made a 
spectacle to the world, both to angels and men. 4:10We are fools for 
Christ's sake, but you are wise in Christ. We are weak, but you are strong. You 
have honor, but we have dishonor. 4:11Even to this present hour we hunger, 
thirst, are naked, are beaten, and have no certain dwelling place. 4:12We 
toil, working with our own hands. When people curse us, we bless. Being 
persecuted, we endure. 4:13Being defamed, we entreat. We are made 
as the filth of the world, the dirt wiped off by all, even until now. 4:14I 
don't write these things to shame you, but to admonish you as my beloved 
children. 4:15For though you have ten thousand tutors 
in Christ, yet not many fathers. For in Christ Jesus, I became your father 
through the Gospel. 4:16I beg you therefore, be imitators of 
me. 4:17Because of this I have sent Timothy to 
you, who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, who will remind you of my 
ways which are in Christ, even as I teach everywhere in every assembly. 4:18Now some are puffed up, as though I 
were not coming to you. 4:19But I will come to you shortly, if the 
Lord is willing. And I will know, not the word of those who are puffed up, but 
the power. 4:20For the Kingdom of God is not in word, 
but in power. 4:21What do you want? Shall I come to you 
with a rod, or in love and a spirit of gentleness? 
5:1It is actually reported that there is 
sexual immorality among you, and such sexual immorality as is not even named 
among the Gentiles, that one has his father's wife. 5:2You are puffed up, 
and didn't rather mourn, that he who had done this deed might be removed from 
among you. 5:3For I most assuredly, as being absent in 
body but present in spirit, have already, as though I were present, judged him 
who has done this thing. 5:4In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
you being gathered together, and my spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus 
Christ, 5:5are to deliver such a one to Satan for 
the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the day of the 
Lord Jesus. 
5:6Your boasting is not good. Don't you 
know that a little yeast leavens the whole lump? 5:7Purge out the old 
yeast, that you may be a new lump, even as you are unleavened. For indeed 
Christ, our Passover, has been sacrificed in our place. 5:8Therefore let us 
keep the feast, not with old yeast, neither with the yeast of malice and 
wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. 5:9I 
wrote to you in my letter to have no company with sexual sinners; 5:10yet not at all meaning with the sexual 
sinners of this world, or with the covetous and extortioners, or with idolaters; 
for then you would have to leave the world. 5:11But as it is, I 
wrote to you not to associate with anyone who is called a brother who is a 
sexual sinner, or covetous, or an idolater, or a slanderer, or a drunkard, or an 
extortioner. Don't even eat with such a person. 5:12For what have I to 
do with also judging those who are outside? Don't you judge those who are 
within? 5:13But those who are outside, God judges. 
"Put away the wicked man from among yourselves." 
6:1Dare any of you, having a matter against 
his neighbor, go to law before the unrighteous, and not before the saints? 6:2Don't you know that the saints will 
judge the world? And if the world is judged by you, are you unworthy to judge 
the smallest matters? 6:3Don't you know that we will judge 
angels? How much more, things that pertain to this life? 6:4If then, you have to 
judge things pertaining to this life, do you set them to judge who are of no 
account in the assembly? 6:5I say this to move you to shame. Isn't 
there even one wise man among you who would be able to decide between his 
brothers? 6:6But brother goes to law with brother, 
and that before unbelievers! 6:7Therefore it is already altogether a 
defect in you, that you have lawsuits one with another. Why not rather be 
wronged? Why not rather be defrauded? 6:8No, but you yourselves do wrong, and 
defraud, and that against your brothers. 6:9Or don't you know that the unrighteous 
will not inherit the Kingdom of God? Don't be deceived. Neither the sexually 
immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor male prostitutes, nor homosexuals, 
6:10nor thieves, nor covetous, nor 
drunkards, nor slanderers, nor extortioners, will inherit the Kingdom of God. 6:11Such were some of you, but you were 
washed. But you were sanctified. But you were justified in the name of the Lord 
Jesus, and in the Spirit of our God. 6:12"All things are lawful for me," but not 
all things are expedient. "All things are lawful for me," but I will not be 
brought under the power of anything. 6:13"Foods for the belly, and the belly for 
foods," but God will bring to nothing both it and them. But the body is not for 
sexual immorality, but for the Lord; and the Lord for the body. 6:14Now God raised up the Lord, and will 
also raise us up by his power. 6:15Don't you know that your bodies are 
members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ, and make them 
members of a prostitute? May it never be! 6:16Or don't you know 
that he who is joined to a prostitute is one body? For, "The two," says he, 
"will become one flesh." 6:17But he who is joined to the Lord is one 
spirit. 6:18Flee sexual immorality! "Every sin that 
a man does is outside the body," but he who commits sexual immorality sins 
against his own body. 6:19Or don't you know that your body is a 
temple of the Holy Spirit which is in you, which you have from God? You are not 
your own, 6:20for you were bought with a price. 
Therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. 
7:1Now concerning the things about which 
you wrote to me: it is good for a man not to touch a woman. 7:2But, because of 
sexual immoralities, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her 
own husband. 7:3Let the husband render to his wife the 
affection owed her, and likewise also the wife to her husband. 7:4The 
wife doesn't have authority over her own body, but the husband. Likewise also 
the husband doesn't have authority over his own body, but the wife. 7:5Don't deprive one another, unless it is 
by consent for a season, that you may give yourselves to fasting and prayer, and 
may be together again, that Satan doesn't tempt you because of your lack of 
self-control. 
7:6But this I say by way of concession, not 
of commandment. 7:7Yet I wish that all men were like me. 
However each man has his own gift from God, one of this kind, and another of 
that kind. 7:8But I say to the unmarried and to 
widows, it is good for them if they remain even as I am. 7:9But if they don't 
have self-control, let them marry. For it's better to marry than to burn. 7:10But to the married I command--not I, 
but the Lord--that the wife not leave her husband 7:11(but if she 
departs, let her remain unmarried, or else be reconciled to her husband), and 
that the husband not leave his wife. 
7:12But to the rest I--not the Lord--say, 
if any brother has an unbelieving wife, and she is content to live with him, let 
him not leave her. 7:13The woman who has an unbelieving 
husband, and he is content to live with her, let her not leave her husband. 7:14For the unbelieving husband is 
sanctified in the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified in the husband. 
Otherwise your children would be unclean, but now are they holy. 7:15Yet if the unbeliever departs, let 
there be separation. The brother or the sister is not under bondage in such 
cases, but God has called us in peace. 7:16For how do you know, wife, whether you 
will save your husband? Or how do you know, husband, whether you will save your 
wife? 7:17Only, as the Lord has distributed to 
each man, as God has called each, so let him walk. So I command in all the 
assemblies. 
7:18Was anyone called having been 
circumcised? Let him not become uncircumcised. Has anyone been called in 
uncircumcision? Let him not be circumcised. 7:19Circumcision is 
nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of the commandments of 
God. 7:20Let each man stay in that calling in 
which he was called. 7:21Were you called being a bondservant? 
Don't let that bother you, but if you get an opportunity to become free, use it. 
7:22For he who was called in the Lord being 
a bondservant is the Lord's free man. Likewise he who was called being free is 
Christ's bondservant. 7:23You were bought with a price. Don't 
become bondservants of men. 7:24Brothers, let each man, in whatever 
condition he was called, stay in that condition with God. 
7:25Now concerning virgins, I have no 
commandment from the Lord, but I give my judgment as one who has obtained mercy 
from the Lord to be trustworthy. 7:26I think that it is good therefore, 
because of the distress that is on us, that it is good for a man to be as he is. 
7:27Are you bound to a wife? Don't seek to 
be freed. Are you free from a wife? Don't seek a wife. 7:28But if you marry, 
you have not sinned. If a virgin marries, she has not sinned. Yet such will have 
oppression in the flesh, and I want to spare you. 7:29But I say this, 
brothers: the time is short, that from now on, both those who have wives may be 
as though they had none; 7:30and those who weep, as though they 
didn't weep; and those who rejoice, as though they didn't rejoice; and those who 
buy, as though they didn't possess; 7:31and those who use the world, as not 
using it to the fullest. For the mode of this world passes away. 7:32But I desire to have you to be free 
from cares. He who is unmarried is concerned for the things of the Lord, how he 
may please the Lord; 7:33but he who is married is concerned 
about the things of the world, how he may please his wife. 7:34There is also a 
difference between a wife and a virgin. The unmarried woman cares about the 
things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit. But she who 
is married cares about the things of the world--how she may please her husband. 
7:35This I say for your own profit; not 
that I may ensnare you, but for that which is appropriate, and that you may 
attend to the Lord without distraction. 7:36But if any man thinks that he is 
behaving inappropriately toward his virgin, if she is past the flower of her 
age, and if need so requires, let him do what he desires. He doesn't sin. Let 
them marry. 7:37But he who stands steadfast in his 
heart, having no necessity, but has power over his own heart, to keep his own 
virgin, does well. 7:38So then both he who gives his own 
virgin in marriage does well, and he who doesn't give her in marriage does 
better. 7:39A wife is bound by law for as long as 
her husband lives; but if the husband is dead, she is free to be married to 
whoever she desires, only in the Lord. 7:40But she is happier if she stays as she 
is, in my judgment, and I think that I also have God's Spirit. 
8:1Now concerning things sacrificed to 
idols: We know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love builds 
up. 8:2But if anyone thinks that he knows 
anything, he doesn't yet know as he ought to know. 8:3But if anyone loves 
God, the same is known by him. 8:4Therefore concerning the eating of 
things sacrificed to idols, we know that no idol is anything in the world, and 
that there is no other God but one. 8:5For though there are things that are 
called "gods," whether in the heavens or on earth; as there are many "gods" and 
many "lords;" 8:6yet to us there is one God, the Father, 
of whom are all things, and we for him; and one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom 
are all things, and we live through him. 8:7However, that knowledge isn't in all 
men. But some, with consciousness of the idol until now, eat as of a thing 
sacrificed to an idol, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled. 8:8But 
food will not commend us to God. For neither, if we don't eat, are we the worse; 
nor, if we eat, are we the better. 8:9But be careful that by no means does 
this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to the weak. 8:10For if a man sees 
you who have knowledge sitting in an idol's temple, won't his conscience, if he 
is weak, be emboldened to eat things sacrificed to idols? 8:11And through your 
knowledge, he who is weak perishes, the brother for whose sake Christ died. 8:12Thus, sinning against the brothers, and 
wounding their conscience when it is weak, you sin against Christ. 8:13Therefore, if food causes my brother to 
stumble, I will eat no meat forevermore, that I don't cause my brother to 
stumble. 
9:1Am I not free? Am I not an apostle? 
Haven't I seen Jesus Christ, our Lord? Aren't you my work in the Lord? 9:2If 
to others I am not an apostle, yet at least I am to you; for you are the seal of 
my apostleship in the Lord. 9:3My defense to those who examine me is 
this. 9:4Have we no right to eat and to drink? 9:5Have 
we no right to take along a wife who is a believer, even as the rest of the 
apostles, and the brothers of the Lord, and Cephas? 9:6Or have only 
Barnabas and I no right to not work? 9:7What soldier ever serves at his own 
expense? Who plants a vineyard, and doesn't eat of its fruit? Or who feeds a 
flock, and doesn't drink from the flock's milk? 9:8Do I speak these 
things according to the ways of men? Or doesn't the law also say the same thing? 
9:9For it is written in the law of Moses, 
"You shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain." Is it for the oxen 
that God cares, 9:10or does he say it assuredly for our 
sake? Yes, it was written for our sake, because he who plows ought to plow in 
hope, and he who threshes in hope should partake of his hope. 9:11If 
we sowed to you spiritual things, is it a great thing if we reap your fleshly 
things? 9:12If others partake of this right over 
you, don't we yet more? Nevertheless we did not use this right, but we bear all 
things, that we may cause no hindrance to the Gospel of Christ. 9:13Don't you know that those who serve 
around sacred things eat from the things of the temple, and those who wait on 
the altar have their portion with the altar? 9:14Even so the Lord 
ordained that those who proclaim the Gospel should live from the Gospel. 9:15But I have used none of these things, 
and I don't write these things that it may be done so in my case; for I would 
rather die, than that anyone should make my boasting void. 9:16For if I preach the 
Gospel, I have nothing to boast about; for necessity is laid on me; but woe is 
to me, if I don't preach the Gospel. 9:17For if I do this of my own will, I have 
a reward. But if not of my own will, I have a stewardship entrusted to me. 9:18What then is my reward? That, when I 
preach the Gospel, I may present the Gospel of Christ without charge, so as not 
to abuse my authority in the Gospel. 9:19For though I was free from all, I 
brought myself under bondage to all, that I might gain the more. 9:20To 
the Jews I became as a Jew, that I might gain Jews; to those who are under the 
law, as under the law, that I might gain those who are under the law; 9:21to 
those who are without law, as without law (not being without law toward God, but 
under law toward Christ), that I might win those who are without law. 9:22To 
the weak I became as weak, that I might gain the weak. I have become all things 
to all men, that I may by all means save some. 9:23Now I do this for 
the Gospel's sake, that I may be a joint partaker of it. 9:24Don't you know that 
those who run in a race all run, but one receives the prize? Run like that, that 
you may win. 9:25Every man who strives in the games 
exercises self-control in all things. Now they do it to receive a corruptible 
crown, but we an incorruptible. 9:26I therefore run like that, as not 
uncertainly. I fight like that, as not beating the air, 9:27but I beat my body 
and bring it into submission, lest by any means, after I have preached to 
others, I myself should be rejected. 
10:1Now I would not have you ignorant, 
brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the 
sea; 10:2and were all baptized into Moses in the 
cloud and in the sea; 10:3and all ate the same spiritual food; 10:4and all drank the same spiritual drink. 
For they drank of a spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ. 
10:5However with most of them, God was not 
well pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. 10:6Now these things 
were our examples, to the intent we should not lust after evil things, as they 
also lusted. 10:7Neither be idolaters, as some of them 
were. As it is written, "The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to 
play." 10:8Neither let us commit sexual 
immorality, as some of them committed, and in one day twenty-three thousand 
fell. 10:9Neither let us test the Lord, as some 
of them tested, and perished by the serpents. 10:10Neither grumble, 
as some of them also grumbled, and perished by the destroyer. 10:11Now all these things happened to them 
by way of example, and they were written for our admonition, on whom the ends of 
the ages have come. 10:12Therefore let him who thinks he stands 
be careful that he doesn't fall. 
10:13No temptation has taken you except 
what is common to man. God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted 
above what you are able, but will with the temptation also make the way of 
escape, that you may be able to endure it. 10:14Therefore, my 
beloved, flee from idolatry. 10:15I speak as to wise men. Judge what I 
say. 10:16The cup of blessing which we bless, 
isn't it a communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, isn't it 
a communion of the body of Christ? 10:17Because we, who are many, are one 
bread, one body; for we all partake of the one bread. 10:18Consider Israel 
after the flesh. Don't those who eat the sacrifices have communion with the 
altar? 
10:19What am I saying then? That a thing 
sacrificed to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything? 10:20But I say that the things which the 
Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons, and not to God, and I don't desire 
that you would have communion with demons. 10:21You can't both 
drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You can't both partake of the 
table of the Lord, and of the table of demons. 10:22Or do we provoke 
the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he? 10:23"All things are 
lawful for me," but not all things are profitable. "All things are lawful for 
me," but not all things build up. 10:24Let no one seek his own, but each one 
his neighbor's good. 10:25Whatever is sold in the butcher shop, 
eat, asking no question for the sake of conscience, 10:26for "the earth is 
the Lord's, and its fullness." 10:27But if one of those who don't believe 
invites you to a meal, and you are inclined to go, eat whatever is set before 
you, asking no questions for the sake of conscience. 10:28But if anyone says 
to you, "This was offered to idols," don't eat it for the sake of the one who 
told you, and for the sake of conscience. For "the earth is the Lord's, and all 
its fullness." 10:29Conscience, I say, not your own, but 
the other's conscience. For why is my liberty judged by another conscience? 10:30If I partake with thankfulness, why am 
I denounced for that for which I give thanks? 10:31Whether therefore 
you eat, or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. 10:32Give no occasions for stumbling, 
either to Jews, or to Greeks, or to the assembly of God; 10:33even as I also 
please all men in all things, not seeking my own profit, but the profit of the 
many, that they may be saved. 
11:1Be imitators of me, even as I also am 
of Christ. 11:2Now I praise you, brothers, that you 
remember me in all things, and hold firm the traditions, even as I delivered 
them to you. 11:3But I would have you know that the head 
of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman is the man, and the head of 
Christ is God. 11:4Every man praying or prophesying, 
having his head covered, dishonors his head. 11:5But every woman 
praying or prophesying with her head unveiled dishonors her head. For it is one 
and the same thing as if she were shaved. 11:6For if a woman is 
not covered, let her also be shorn. But if it is shameful for a woman to be 
shorn or shaved, let her be covered. 11:7For a man indeed ought not to have his 
head covered, because he is the image and glory of God, but the woman is the 
glory of the man. 11:8For man is not from woman, but woman 
from man; 11:9for neither was man created for the 
woman, but woman for the man. 11:10For this cause the woman ought to have 
authority on her head, because of the angels. 
11:11Nevertheless, neither is the woman 
independent of the man, nor the man independent of the woman, in the Lord. 11:12For as woman came from man, so a man 
also comes through a woman; but all things are from God. 11:13Judge for 
yourselves. Is it appropriate that a woman pray to God unveiled? 11:14Doesn't even nature itself teach you 
that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him? 11:15But if a woman has 
long hair, it is a glory to her, for her hair is given to her for a covering. 11:16But if any man seems to be 
contentious, we have no such custom, neither do God's assemblies. 
11:17But in giving you this command, I 
don't praise you, that you come together not for the better but for the worse. 
11:18For first of all, when you come 
together in the assembly, I hear that divisions exist among you, and I partly 
believe it. 11:19For there also must be factions among 
you, that those who are approved may be revealed among you. 11:20When therefore you 
assemble yourselves together, it is not possible to eat the Lord's supper. 11:21For in your eating each one takes his 
own supper before others. One is hungry, and another is drunken. 11:22What, don't you have houses to eat and 
to drink in? Or do you despise God's assembly, and put them to shame who don't 
have? What shall I tell you? Shall I praise you? In this I don't praise you. 
11:23For I received from the Lord that 
which also I delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night in which he was 
betrayed took bread. 11:24When he had given thanks, he broke it, 
and said, "Take, eat. This is my body, which is broken for 
you. Do this in memory of me." 11:25In the same way he also took the cup, 
after supper, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in my 
blood. Do this, as often as you drink, in memory of me." 11:26For as often as you eat this bread and 
drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. 11:27Therefore whoever eats this bread or 
drinks the Lord's cup in a manner unworthy of the Lord will be guilty of the 
body and the blood of the Lord. 11:28But let a man examine himself, and so 
let him eat of the bread, and drink of the cup. 11:29For he who eats 
and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, if he 
doesn't discern the Lord's body. 11:30For this cause many among you are weak 
and sickly, and not a few sleep. 11:31For if we discerned ourselves, we 
wouldn't be judged. 11:32But when we are judged, we are 
punished by the Lord, that we may not be condemned with the world. 11:33Therefore, my brothers, when you come 
together to eat, wait one for another. 11:34But if anyone is hungry, let him eat 
at home, lest your coming together be for judgment. The rest I will set in order 
whenever I come. 
12:1Now concerning spiritual things, 
brothers, I don't want you to be ignorant. 12:2You know that when 
you were heathen, you 
were led away to those mute idols, however you might be led. 12:3Therefore I make 
known to you that no man speaking by God's Spirit says, "Jesus is accursed." No 
one can say, "Jesus is Lord," but by the Holy Spirit. 12:4Now there are 
various kinds of gifts, but the same Spirit. 
12:5There are various kinds of service, and 
the same Lord. 12:6There are various kinds of workings, 
but the same God, who works all things in all. 12:7But to each one is 
given the manifestation of the Spirit for the profit of all. 12:8For to one is given 
through the Spirit the word of wisdom, and to another the word of knowledge, 
according to the same Spirit; 12:9to another faith, by the same Spirit; 
and to another gifts of healings, by the same Spirit; 12:10and to another 
workings of miracles; and to another prophecy; and to another discerning of 
spirits; to another different kinds of languages; and to another the 
interpretation of languages. 12:11But the one and the same Spirit works 
all of these, distributing to each one separately as he desires. 
12:12For as the body is one, and has many 
members, and all the members of the body, being many, are one body; so also is 
Christ. 12:13For in one Spirit we were all baptized 
into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether bond or free; and were all given 
to drink into one Spirit. 12:14For the body is not one member, but 
many. 12:15If the foot would say, "Because I'm 
not the hand, I'm not part of the body," it is not therefore not part of the 
body. 12:16If the ear would say, "Because I'm not 
the eye, I'm not part of the body," it's not therefore not part of the body. 12:17If the whole body were an eye, where 
would the hearing be? If the whole were hearing, where would the smelling be? 12:18But now God has set the members, each 
one of them, in the body, just as he desired. 12:19If they were all 
one member, where would the body be? 12:20But now they are many members, but one 
body. 12:21The eye can't tell the hand, "I have 
no need for you," or again the head to the feet, "I have no need for you." 12:22No, much rather, those members of the 
body which seem to be weaker are necessary. 12:23Those parts of the 
body which we think to be less honorable, on those we bestow more abundant 
honor; and our unpresentable parts have more abundant propriety; 12:24whereas our presentable parts have no 
such need. But God composed the body together, giving more abundant honor to the 
inferior part, 12:25that there should be no division in 
the body, but that the members should have the same care for one another. 12:26When one member suffers, all the 
members suffer with it. Or when one member is honored, all the members rejoice 
with it. 
12:27Now you are the body of Christ, and 
members individually. 12:28God has set some in the assembly: 
first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracle workers, then 
gifts of healings, helps, governments, and various kinds of languages. 12:29Are all apostles? Are all prophets? 
Are all teachers? Are all miracle workers? 12:30Do all have gifts 
of healings? Do all speak with various languages? Do all interpret? 12:31But earnestly desire the best gifts. 
Moreover, I show a most excellent way to you. 
13:1If I speak with the languages of men 
and of angels, but don't have love, I have become sounding brass, or a clanging 
cymbal. 13:2If I have the gift of prophecy, and 
know all mysteries and all knowledge; and if I have all faith, so as to remove 
mountains, but don't have love, I am nothing. 13:3If I dole out all 
my goods to feed the poor, and if I give my body to be burned, but don't have 
love, it profits me nothing. 
13:4Love is patient and is kind; love 
doesn't envy. Love doesn't brag, is not proud, 13:5doesn't behave 
itself inappropriately, doesn't seek its own way, is not provoked, takes no 
account of evil; 13:6doesn't rejoice in unrighteousness, but 
rejoices with the truth; 13:7bears all things, believes all things, 
hopes all things, endures all things. 13:8Love never fails. But where there are 
prophecies, they will be done away with. Where there are various languages, they 
will cease. Where there is knowledge, it will be done away with. 13:9For we know in part, and we prophesy in 
part; 13:10but when that which is complete has 
come, then that which is partial will be done away with. 13:11When I was a 
child, I spoke as a child, I felt as a child, I thought as a child. Now that I 
have become a man, I have put away childish things. 13:12For now we see in 
a mirror, dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then I will know 
fully, even as I was also fully known. 13:13But now faith, hope, and love 
remain--these three. The greatest of these is love. 
14:1Follow after love, and earnestly desire 
spiritual gifts, but especially that you may prophesy. 14:2For he who speaks 
in another language speaks not to men, but to God; for no one understands; but 
in the Spirit he speaks mysteries. 14:3But he who prophesies speaks to men for 
their edification, exhortation, and consolation. 14:4He who speaks in 
another language edifies himself, but he who prophesies edifies the assembly. 14:5Now I desire to have you all speak with 
other languages, but rather that you would prophesy. For he is greater who 
prophesies than he who speaks with other languages, unless he interprets, that 
the assembly may be built up. 
14:6But now, brothers, if I come to 
you speaking with other languages, what would I profit you, unless I speak to 
you either by way of revelation, or of knowledge, or of prophesying, or of 
teaching? 14:7Even things without life, giving a 
voice, whether pipe or harp, if they didn't give a distinction in the sounds, 
how would it be known what is piped or harped? 14:8For if the trumpet 
gave an uncertain sound, who would prepare himself for war? 14:9So also you, unless 
you uttered by the tongue words easy to understand, how would it be known what 
is spoken? For you would be speaking into the air. 14:10There are, it may 
be, so many kinds of sounds in the world, and none of them is without meaning. 
14:11If then I don't know the meaning of 
the sound, I would be to him who speaks a foreigner, and he who speaks would be 
a foreigner to me. 14:12So also you, since you are zealous for 
spiritual gifts, seek that you may abound to the building up of the assembly. 14:13Therefore let him who speaks in 
another language pray that he may interpret. 14:14For if I pray in 
another language, my spirit prays, but my understanding is unfruitful. 
14:15What is it then? I will pray with the 
spirit, and I will pray with the understanding also. I will sing with the 
spirit, and I will sing with the understanding also. 14:16Otherwise if you 
bless with the spirit, how will he who fills the place of the unlearned say the 
"Amen" at your giving of thanks, seeing he doesn't know what you say? 14:17For you most assuredly give thanks 
well, but the other person is not built up. 14:18I thank my God, I 
speak with other languages more than you all. 14:19However in the 
assembly I would rather speak five words with my understanding, that I might 
instruct others also, than ten thousand words in another language. 
14:20Brothers, don't be children in 
thoughts, yet in malice be babies, but in thoughts be mature. 14:21In the law it is written, "By men of 
strange languages and by the lips of strangers I will speak to this people. Not 
even thus will they hear me, says the Lord." 14:22Therefore other 
languages are for a sign, not to those who believe, but to the unbelieving; but 
prophesying is for a sign, not to the unbelieving, but to those who believe. 14:23If therefore the whole assembly is 
assembled together and all speak with other languages, and unlearned or 
unbelieving people come in, won't they say that you are crazy? 14:24But if all prophesy, and someone 
unbelieving or unlearned comes in, he is reproved by all, and he is judged by 
all. 14:25And thus the secrets of his heart are 
revealed. So he will fall down on his face and worship God, declaring that God 
is among you indeed. 
14:26What is it then, brothers? When you 
come together, each one of you has a psalm, has a teaching, has a revelation, 
has another language, has an interpretation. Let all things be done to build 
each other up. 14:27If any man speaks in another language, 
let it be two, or at the most three, and in turn; and let one interpret. 14:28But if there is no interpreter, let 
him keep silent in the assembly, and let him speak to himself, and to God. 14:29Let the prophets speak, two or three, 
and let the others discern. 14:30But if a revelation is made to another 
sitting by, let the first keep silent. 14:31For you all can prophesy one by one, 
that all may learn, and all may be exhorted. 14:32The spirits of the 
prophets are subject to the prophets, 14:33for God is not a God of confusion, but 
of peace. 
As in all the assemblies of the saints, 14:34let your wives 
keep silent in the assemblies, for it has not been permitted for them to speak; 
but let them be in subjection, as the law also says. 14:35If they desire to 
learn anything, let them ask their own husbands at home, for it is shameful for 
a woman to chatter in the assembly. 14:36What? Was it from you that the word of 
God went out? Or did it come to you alone? 14:37If any man thinks 
himself to be a prophet, or spiritual, let him recognize the things which I 
write to you, that they are the commandment of the Lord. 14:38But if anyone is 
ignorant, let him be ignorant. 14:39Therefore, brothers, desire earnestly 
to prophesy, and don't forbid speaking with other languages. 14:40Let all things be done decently and in 
order. 
15:1Now I declare to you, brothers, the 
Gospel which I preached to you, which also you received, in which you also 
stand, 15:2by which also you are saved, if you 
hold firmly the word which I preached to you--unless you believed in vain. 15:3For I delivered to you first of all 
that which I also received: that Christ died for our sins according to the 
Scriptures, 15:4that he was buried, that he was raised 
on the third day according to the Scriptures, 15:5and that he 
appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve. 15:6Then he appeared to over five hundred 
brothers at once, most of whom remain until now, but some have also fallen 
asleep. 15:7Then he appeared to James, then to all 
the apostles, 15:8and last of all, as to the child born 
at the wrong time, he appeared to me also. 15:9For I am the least 
of the apostles, who is not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted 
the assembly of God. 15:10But by the grace of God I am what I 
am. His grace which was bestowed on me was not futile, but I worked more than 
all of them; yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me. 15:11Whether then it is I or they, so we 
preach, and so you believed. 
15:12Now if Christ is preached, that he has 
been raised from the dead, how do some among you say that there is no 
resurrection of the dead? 15:13But if there is no resurrection of the 
dead, neither has Christ been raised. 15:14If Christ has not been raised, then 
our preaching is in vain, and your faith also is in vain. 15:15Yes, we are found 
false witnesses of God, because we testified about God that he raised up Christ, 
whom he didn't raise up, if it is so that the dead are not raised. 15:16For if the dead aren't raised, neither 
has Christ been raised. 15:17If Christ has not been raised, your 
faith is vain; you are still in your sins. 15:18Then they also who 
are fallen asleep in Christ have perished. 15:19If we have only 
hoped in Christ in this life, we are of all men most pitiable. 
15:20But now Christ has been raised from 
the dead. He became the first fruits of those who are asleep. 15:21For since death came by man, the 
resurrection of the dead also came by man. 15:22For as in Adam all 
die, so also in Christ all will be made alive. 15:23But each in his 
own order: Christ the first fruits, then those who are Christ's, at his coming. 
15:24Then the end comes, when he will 
deliver up the Kingdom to God, even the Father; when he will have abolished all 
rule and all authority and power. 15:25For he must reign until he has put all 
his enemies under his feet. 15:26The last enemy that will be abolished 
is death. 15:27For, "He put all things in subjection 
under his feet." But when he says, "All things are put in subjection," it is 
evident that he is excepted who subjected all things to him. 15:28When all things have been subjected to 
him, then the Son will also himself be subjected to him who subjected all things 
to him, that God may be all in all. 15:29Or else what will they do who are 
baptized for the dead? If the dead aren't raised at all, why then are they 
baptized for the dead? 15:30Why do we also stand in jeopardy every 
hour? 15:31I affirm, by the boasting in you which 
I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily. 15:32If I fought with 
animals at Ephesus for human purposes, what does it profit me? If the dead are 
not raised, then "let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die." 15:33Don't be deceived! "Evil 
companionships corrupt good morals." 15:34Wake up righteously, and don't sin, 
for some have no knowledge of God. I say this to your shame. 15:35But someone will say, "How are the 
dead raised?" and, "With what kind of body do they come?" 15:36You foolish one, 
that which you yourself sow is not made alive unless it dies. 15:37That which you sow, you don't sow the 
body that will be, but a bare grain, maybe of wheat, or of some other kind. 15:38But God gives it a body even as it 
pleased him, and to each seed a body of its own. 15:39All flesh is not 
the same flesh, but there is one flesh of men, another flesh of animals, another 
of fish, and another of birds. 15:40There are also celestial bodies, and 
terrestrial bodies; but the glory of the celestial differs from that of the 
terrestrial. 15:41There is one glory of the sun, another 
glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for one star differs from 
another star in glory. 15:42So also is the resurrection of the 
dead. It is sown in corruption; it is raised in incorruption. 15:43It is sown in dishonor; it is raised 
in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is raised in power. 15:44It is sown a 
natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body and there 
is also a spiritual body. 
15:45So also it is written, "The first man, 
Adam, became a living soul." The last Adam became a life-giving spirit. 15:46However that which is spiritual isn't 
first, but that which is natural, then that which is spiritual. 15:47The first man is of the earth, made of 
dust. The second man is the Lord from heaven. 15:48As is the one made 
of dust, such are those who are also made of dust; and as is the heavenly, such 
are they also that are heavenly. 15:49As we have borne the image of those 
made of dust, let's 
also bear the image of the heavenly. 15:50Now I say this, brothers, that flesh and 
blood can't inherit the Kingdom of God; neither does corruption inherit 
incorruption. 
15:51Behold, I tell you a mystery. We will 
not all sleep, but we will all be changed, 15:52in a moment, in 
the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and 
the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we will be changed. 15:53For this corruptible must put on 
incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. 15:54But when this 
corruptible will have put on incorruption, and this mortal will have put on 
immortality, then what is written will happen: "Death is swallowed up in 
victory." 
 15:55"Death, where is your 
sting?      Hades, where is your victory?" 
15:56The sting of death is sin, and the 
power of sin is the law. 15:57But thanks be to God, who gives us the 
victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. 15:58Therefore, my beloved brothers, be 
steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the Lord's work, because you know that 
your labor is not in vain in the Lord. 
16:1Now concerning the collection for the 
saints, as I commanded the assemblies of Galatia, you do likewise. 16:2On 
the first day of the week, let each one of you save, as he may prosper, that no 
collections be made when I come. 16:3When I arrive, I will send whoever you 
approve with letters to carry your gracious gift to Jerusalem. 16:4If 
it is appropriate for me to go also, they will go with me. 16:5But I will come to 
you when I have passed through Macedonia, for I am passing through Macedonia. 16:6But with you it may be that I will 
stay, or even winter, that you may send me on my journey wherever I go. 16:7For I do not wish to see you now in 
passing, but I hope to stay a while with you, if the Lord permits. 16:8But I will stay at Ephesus until 
Pentecost, 16:9for a great and effective door has 
opened to me, and there are many adversaries. 16:10Now if Timothy 
comes, see that he is with you without fear, for he does the work of the Lord, 
as I also do. 16:11Therefore let no one despise him. But 
set him forward on his journey in peace, that he may come to me; for I expect 
him with the brothers. 
16:12Now concerning Apollos, the brother, I 
strongly urged him to come to you with the brothers; and it was not at all his 
desire to come now; but he will come when he has an opportunity. 
16:13Watch! Stand firm in the faith! Be 
courageous! Be strong! 16:14Let all that you do be done in love. 
16:15Now I beg you, brothers (you know the 
house of Stephanas, that it is the first fruits of Achaia, and that they have 
set themselves to minister to the saints), 16:16that you also be 
in subjection to such, and to everyone who helps in the work and labors. 16:17I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas, 
Fortunatus, and Achaicus; for that which was lacking on your part, they 
supplied. 16:18For they refreshed my spirit and 
yours. Therefore acknowledge those who are like that. 
16:19The assemblies of Asia greet you. 
Aquila and Priscilla greet you much in the Lord, together with the assembly that 
is in their house. 16:20All the brothers greet you. Greet one 
another with a holy kiss. 
16:21This greeting is by me, Paul, with my 
own hand. 16:22If any man doesn't love the Lord Jesus 
Christ, let him be accursed. Come, Lord! 16:23The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be 
with you. 16:24My love to all of you in Christ Jesus. 
Amen. 




Notes:
[1] back to 1:10 The word 
for "brothers" here and where context allows may also be correctly translated 
"brothers and sisters" or "siblings."
[2] back to 12:2 or 
Gentiles
[3] back to 14:6 The word 
for "brothers" here and where context allows may also be correctly translated 
"brothers and sisters" or "siblings."
[4] back to 15:49 NU, TR 
read "we will" instead of "let's"
[5] back to 15:50 The 
word for "brothers" here and where context allows may also be correctly 
translated "brothers and sisters" or "siblings."
[6] back to 16:22 Greek: 
anathema.
[7] back to 16:22 
Aramaic: Maranatha! 

