
2 Clement












THE SECOND EPISTLE OF CLEMENT 
CHAP. I.--WE OUGHT TO THINK HIGHLY OF CHRIST. 
BRETHREN, it is fitting that you should think of Jesus Christ as of God,--as 
the Judge of the living and the dead. And it does not become us to think lightly 
of our salvation; for if we think little of Him, we shall also hope but to 
obtain little [from Him]. And those of us who hear carelessly of these things, 
as if they were of small importance, commit sin, not knowing whence we have been 
called, and by whom, and to what place, and how much Jesus Christ submitted to 
suffer for our sakes. What return, then, shall we make to Him, or what fruit 
that shall be worthy of that which tie has given to us? For, indeed, how great 
are the benefits which we owe to Him! He has graciously given us light; as a 
Father, He has called us sons; He has saved us when we were ready to perish. 
What praise, then, shall we give to Him, or what return shall we make for the 
things which we have received? We were deficient in understanding, worshipping 
stones and wood, and gold, and silver, and brass, the works of men's hands; and 
our whole life was nothing else than death. Involved in blindness, and with such 
darkness before our eyes, we have received sight, and through His will have laid 
aside that cloud by which we were enveloped. For He had compassion on us, and 
mercifully saved us, observing the many errors in which we were entangled, as 
well as the destruction to which we were exposed, and that we had no hope of 
salvation except it came to us from Him. For He called us when we were not, and 
willed that out of nothing we should attain a real existence. 
CHAP. II.--THE CHURCH, FORMERLY BARREN, IS NOW FRUITFUL. 
"Rejoice, thou barren that bearest not; break forth and cry, thou that 
travailest not; for she that is desolate hath many more children than she that 
hath an husband." In that He said, "Rejoice, thou barren that bearest not," He 
referred to us, for our church was barren before that children were given to 
her. But when He said, "Cry out, thou that travailest not," He means this, that 
we should sincerely offer up our prayers to God, and should not, like women m 
travail, show signs of weakness. And in that He said, "For she that is desolate 
hath many more children than she that hath an husband," [He means] that our 
people seemed to be outcast from God, but now, through believing, have become 
more numerous than those who are reckoned to possess God. And another Scripture 
saith, "I came not to call the righteous, but sinners." This means that those 
who are perishing must be saved. For it is indeed a great and admirable thing to 
establish not the things which are standing, but those that are falling. Thus 
also did Christ desire to save the things which were perishing, and has saved 
many by coming and calling us when hastening to destruction. 
CHAP. III.--THE DUTY OF CONFESSING CHRIST. 
Since, then, He has displayed so great mercy towards us, and especially in 
this respect, that we who are living should not offer sacrifices to gods that 
are dead, or pay them worship, but should attain through Him to the knowledge of 
the true Father, whereby shall we show that we do indeed know Him, but by not 
denying Him through whom this knowledge has been attained? For He himself 
declares, "Whosoever shall confess me before men, him will I confess before my 
Father." This, then, is our reward if we shall confess Him by whom we have been 
saved. But in what way shall we confess Him? By doing what He says, and not 
transgressing His commandments, and by honouring Him not with our lips only, but 
with all our heart and all our mind. For He says in Isaiah, "This people 
honoureth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me." 
CHAP. IV.--TRUE CONFESSION OF CHRIST. 
Let us, then, not only call Him Lord, for that will not save us. For He 
saith, "Not every one that saith to me, Lord, Lord, shall be saved, but he that 
worketh righteousness." Wherefore, brethren, let us confess Him by our works, by 
loving one another, by not committing adultery, or speaking evil of one another, 
or cherishing envy; but by being continent, compassionate, and good. We ought 
also to sympathize with one another, and not be avaricious. By such works let us 
confess Him, and not by those that are of an opposite kind. And it is not 
fitting that we should fear men, but rather God. For this reason, if we should 
do such [wicked] things, the Lord hath said, "Even though ye were gathered 
together to me in my very bosom, yet if ye were not to keep my commandments, I 
would cast you off, and say unto you, Depart from me; I know you not whence ye 
are, ye workers of iniquity." 
CHAP. V.--THIS WORLD SHOULD BE DESPISED. 
Wherefore, brethren, leaving [willingly] our sojourn in this present world, 
let us do the will of Him that called us, and not fear to depart out of this 
world. For the Lord saith, "Ye shall be as lambs in the midst of wolves." And 
Peter answered and said unto Him, "What, then, if the wolves shall tear in 
pieces the lambs?" Jesus said unto Peter, "The lambs have no cause after they 
are dead to fear the wolves; and in like manner, fear not ye them that kill you, 
and can do nothing more unto you; but fear Him who, after you are dead, has 
power over both soul and body to cast them into hell-fire." And consider, 
brethren, that the sojourning in the flesh in this world is but brief and 
transient, but the promise of Christ is great and wonderful, even the rest of 
the kingdom to come, and of life everlasting. By what course of conduct, then, 
shall we attain these things, but by leading a holy and righteous life, and by 
deeming these worldly things as not belonging to us, and not fixing our desires 
upon them? For if we desire to possess them, we fall away from the path of 
righteousness. 
CHAP. VI.--THE PRESENT AND FUTURE WORLDS ARE ENEMIES TO EACH OTHER. 
Now the Lord declares, "No servant can serve two masters." If we desire, 
then, to serve both God and mammon, it will be unprofitable for us. "For what 
will it profit if a man gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" This world 
and the next are two enemies. The one urges to adultery and corruption, avarice 
and deceit; the other bids farewell to these things. We cannot, therefore, be 
the friends of both; and it behoves us, by renouncing the one, to make sure of 
the other. Let us reckon that it is better to hate the things present, since 
they are trifling, and transient, and corruptible; and to love those [which are 
to come,] as being good and incorruptible. For if we do the will of Christ, we 
shall find rest; otherwise, nothing shall deliver us from eternal punishment, if 
we disobey His commandments. For thus also saith the Scripture in Ezekiel, "If 
Noah, Job, and Daniel should rise up, they should not deliver their children in 
captivity." Now, if men so eminently righteous are not able by their 
righteousness to deliver their children, how can we hope to enter into the royal 
residence of God unless we keep our baptism holy and undefiled? Or who shall be 
our advocate, unless we be found possessed of works of holiness and 
righteousness? 
CHAP. VII.--WE MUST STRIVE IN ORDER TO BE CROWNED. 
Wherefore, then, my brethren, let us struggle with all earnestness, knowing 
that the contest is [in our case] close at hand, and that many undertake long 
voyages to strive for a corruptible reward; yet all are not crowned, but those 
only that have laboured hard and striven gloriously. Let us therefore so strive, 
that we may all be crowned. Let us run the straight course, even the race that 
is incorruptible; and let us m great numbers set out for it, and strive that we 
may be crowned. And should we not all be able to obtain the crown, let us at 
least come near to it. We must remember that he who strives in the corruptible 
contest, if he be found acting unfairly, is taken away and scourged, and cast 
forth from the lists. What then think ye? If one does anything unseemly in the 
incorruptible contest, what shall he have to bear? For of those who do not 
preserve the seal [unbroken], [the Scripture] saith, "Their worm shall not die, 
and their fire shall not be quenched, and they shall be a spectacle to all 
flesh." 
CHAP. VIII.--THE NECESSITY OF REPENTANCE WHILE WE ARE ON EARTH. 
As long, therefore, as we are upon earth, let us practise repentance, for we 
are as clay in the hand of the artificer. For as the potter, if he make a 
vessel, and it be distorted or broken in his hands, fashions it over again; but 
if he have before this cast it into the furnace of fire, can no longer find any 
help for it: so let us also, while we are in this world, repent with our whole 
heart of the evil deeds we have done in the flesh, that we may be saved by the 
Lord, while we have yet an opportunity of repentance. For after we have gone out 
of the world, no further power of confessing or repenting will there belong to 
us. Wherefore, brethren, by doing the will of the Father, and keeping the flesh 
holy, and observing the commandments of the Lord, we shall obtain eternal life. 
For the Lord saith in the Gospel, "If ye have not kept that which was small, who 
will commit to you the great? For I say unto you, that he that is faithful in 
that which is least, is faithful also in much." This, then, is what He means: 
"Keep the flesh holy and the seal undefiled, that ye may receive eternal life." 
CHAP. IX.--WE SHALL RE JUDGED IN THE FLESH. 
And let no one of you say that this very flesh shall not be judged, nor rise 
again. Consider ye in what [state] ye were saved, in what ye received sight, if 
not while ye were in this flesh. We must therefore preserve the flesh as the 
temple of God. For as ye were called in the flesh, ye shall also come [to be 
judged] in the flesh. As Christ the Lord who saved us, though He was first a 
Spirit became flesh, and thus called us, so shall we also receive the reward in 
this flesh. Let us therefore love one another, that we may all attain to the 
kingdom of God. While we have an opportunity of being healed, let us yield 
ourselves to God that healeth us, and give to Him a recompense. Of what sort? 
Repentance out of a sincere heart; for He knows all things beforehand, and is 
acquainted with what is in our hearts. Let us therefore give Him praise, not 
with the mouth only, but also with the heart, that tie may accept us as sons. 
For the Lord has said, "Those are my brethren who do the will of my Father." 
CHAP. X.--VICE IS TO BE FORSAKEN, AND VIRTUE FOLLOWED. 
Wherefore, my brethren, let us do the will of the Father who called us, that 
we may live; and let us earnestly follow after virtue, but forsake every wicked 
tendency which would lead us into transgression; and flee from ungodliness, lest 
evils overtake us. For if we are diligent in doing good, peace will follow us. 
On this account, such men cannot find it [i.e. peace] as are influenced by human 
terrors, and prefer rather present enjoyment to the promise which shall 
afterwards be fulfilled. For they know not what torment present enjoyment 
recurs, or what felicity is involved in the future promise. And if, indeed, they 
themselves only aid such things, it would be [the more] tolerable; but now they 
persist in imbuing innocent souls with their pernicious doctrines, not knowing 
that they shall receive a double condemnation, both they and those that hear 
them. 
CHAP. XI.--WE OUGHT TO SERVE GOD, TRUSTING IN HIS PROMISES. 
Let us therefore serve God with a pure heart, and we shall be righteous; but 
if we do not serve Him, because we believe not the promise of God, we shall be 
miserable. For the prophetic word also declares, "Wretched are those of a double 
mind, and who doubt in their heart, who say, All these things have we heard even 
in the times of our fathers; but though we have waited day by day, we have seen 
none of them [accomplished]. Ye fools! compare yourselves to a tree; take, for 
instance, the vine. First of all it sheds its leaves, then the bud appears; 
after that the sour grape, and then the fully-ripened fruit. So, likewise, my 
people have borne disturbances and afflictions, but afterwards shall they 
receive their good things." Wherefore, my brethren, let us not be of a double 
mind, but let us hope and endure, that we also may obtain the reward. For He is 
faithful who has promised that He will bestow on every one a reward according to 
his works. If, therefore, we shall do righteousness in the sight of God, we 
shall enter into His kingdom, and shall receive the promises, which "ear hath 
not heard, nor eye seen, neither have entered into the heart of man." 
CHAP. XII.--WE ARE CONSTANTLY TO LOOK FOR THE KINGDOM OF GOD. 
Let us expect, therefore, hour by hour, the kingdom of God in love and 
righteousness, since we know not the day of the appearing of God. For the Lord 
Himself, being asked by one when His kingdom would come, replied, "When two 
shall be one, that which is without as that which is within, and the male with 
the female, neither male nor female." Now, two are one when we speak the truth 
one to another, and there is unfeignedly one soul in two bodies. And "that which 
is without as" that which is within meaneth this: He calls the soul "that which 
is within," and the body "that which is without." As, then, thy body is visible 
to sight, so also let thy soul be manifest by good works. And "the male, with 
the female, neither male nor female, this He saith, that brother seeing sister 
may have no thought concerning her as female, and that she may have no thought 
concerning him as male. "If ye do these things, saith He, "the kingdom of my 
Father shall come." 
CHAP. XIII.--GOD'S NAME NOT TO BE BLASPHEMED. 
Brethren, then, let us now at length repent, let us soberly turn to that 
which is good; for we are full of abundant folly and wickedness. Let us wipe out 
from us our former sins, and repenting from the heart be saved; and let us not 
be men-pleasers, nor be willing to please one another only, but also the men 
without, for righteousness sake, that the name may not be, because of us, 
blasphemed. For the Lord saith, "Continually my name is blasphemed among all 
nations," and "Wherefore my name is blasphemed; blasphemed in what? In your not 
doing the things which I wish." For the nations, hearing from our mouth the 
oracles of God, marvel at their excellence and worth; thereafter learning that 
our deeds are not worthy of the words which we speak,--receiving this occasion 
they turn to blasphemy, saying that they are a fable and a delusion. For, 
whenever they hear from us that God saith, "No thank have ye, if ye love them 
which love you, but ye have thank, if ye love your enemies and them which hate 
you " --whenever they hear these words, they marvel at the surpassing measure of 
their goodness; but when they see, that not only do we not love those who hate, 
but that we love not even those who love, they laugh us to scorn, and the name 
is blasphemed. 
CHAP. XIV.--THE CHURCH SPIRITUAL. 
So, then, brethren, if we do the will of our Father God, we shall be members 
of the first church, the spiritual,--that which was created before sun and moon; 
but if we shall not do the will of the Lord, we shall come under the Scripture 
which saith, "My house became a den of robbers." So, then, let us elect to 
belong to the church of life, that we may be saved. I think not that ye are 
ignorant that the living church is the body of Christ (for the Scripture, saith, 
"God created man male and female;" the male is Christ, the female the church,) 
and that the Books and the Apostles teach that the church is not of the present, 
but from the beginning. For it was spiritual, as was also our Jesus, and was 
made manifest at the end of the days in order to save us. The church being 
spiritual, was made manifest in the flesh of Christ, signifying to us that if 
any one of us shall preserve it in the flesh and corrupt it not, he shall 
receive it in the Holy Spirit. For this flesh is the type of the spirit; no one, 
therefore, having corrupted the type, will receive afterwards the antitype. 
Therefore is it, then, that He saith, brethren, "Preserve ye the flesh, that ye 
may become partakers of the spirit." If we say that the flesh is the church and 
the spirit Christ, then it follows that he who shall offer outrage to the flesh 
is guilty of outrage on the church. Such an one, therefore, will not partake of 
the spirit, which is Christ. Such is the life and immortality, which this flesh 
may afterwards receive, the Holy Spirit cleaving to it; and no one can either 
express or utter what things the Lord hath prepared for His elect. 
CHAP. XV.--HE WHO SAVES AND HE WHO IS SAVED. 
I think not that I counted trivial counsel concerning continence; following 
it, a man will not repent thereof, but will save both himself and me who 
counselled. For it is no small reward to turn back a wandering and perishing 
soul for its salvation. For this recompense we are able to render to the God who 
created us, if he who speaks and hears beth speak and hear with faith and love. 
Let us, therefore, continue in that course in which we, righteous and holy, 
believed, that with confidence we may ask God who saith, "Whilst thou art still 
speaking, I will say, Here I am." For these words are a token of a great 
promise, for the Lord saith that He is more ready to give than he who asks. So 
great, then, being the goodness of which we are partakers, let us not grudge one 
another the attainment of so great blessings. 
For in proportion to the pleasure with which these words are fraught to those 
who shall follow them, in that proportion is the condemnation with which they 
are fraught to those who shall refuse to hear. 
CHAP. XVI--PREPARATION FOR THE DAY OF JUDGMENT. 
So, then, brethren, having received no small occasion to repent, while we 
have opportunity, let us turn to God who called us, while yet we have One to 
receive us. For if we renounce these indulgences and conquer the soul by not 
fulfilling its wicked desires, we shall be partakers of the mercy of Jesus. Know 
ye that the day of judgment draweth nigh like a burning oven, and certain of the 
heavens and all the earth will melt, like lead melting in fire; and then will 
appear the hidden and manifest deeds of men. Good, then, is alms as repentance 
from sin; better is fasting than prayer, and alms than both; "charity covereth a 
multitude of sins," and prayer out of a good conscience delivereth from death. 
Blessed is every one that shall be found complete in these; for alms lightens 
the burden of sin. 
CHAP. XVII.--SAME SUBJECT CONTINUED. 
Let us, then, repent with our whole heart, that no one of us may perish 
amiss. For if we have commands and engage in withdrawing from idols and 
instructing others, how much more ought a soul already knowing God not to 
perish. Rendering, therefore, mutual help, let us raise the weak also in that 
which is good, that all of us may be saved and convert one another and admonish. 
And not only now let us seem to believe and give heed, when we are admonished by 
the elders; but also when we take our departure home, let us remember the 
commandments of the Lord, and not be allured back by worldly lusts, but let us 
often and often draw near and try to make progress in the Lord's commands, that 
we all having the same mind may be gathered together for life. For the Lord 
said, "I come to gather all nations [kindreds] and tongues." This means the day 
of His appearing, when He will come and redeem us--each one according to his 
works. And the unbelievers will see His glory and might, and, when they see the 
empire of the world in Jesus, they will be surprise, saying, "Woe to us, because 
Thou wast, and we knew not and believed not and obeyed not the elders who show 
us plainly of our salvation." And "their worm shall not die, neither shall their 
fire be quenched; and they shall be a spectacle unto all flesh." It is of the 
great day of judgment He speaks, when they shall see those among us who were 
guilty of ungodliness and erred in their estimate of the commands of Jesus 
Christ. The righteous, having succeeded both in enduring the trials and hating 
the indulgences of the soul, whenever they witness how those who have swerved 
and denied Jesus by words or deeds are punished with grievous torments in fire 
unquenchable, will give glory to their God and say, "There will be hope for him 
who has served God with his whole heart." 
CHAP. XVIII.--THE AUTHOR SINFUL, YET PURSUING. 
And let us, then, be of the number of those who give thanks, who have served 
God, and not of the ungodly who are judged. For I myself, though a sinner every 
whir and not yet fleeing temptation but continuing in the midst of the tools of 
the devil, study to follow after righteousness, that I may make, be it only 
some, approach to it, fearing the judgment to come. 
CHAP. XIX.--REWARD OF THE RIGHTEOUS, ALTHOUGH THEY MAY SUFFER. 
So then, brothers and sisters, after the God of truth I address to you an 
appeal that ye may give heed to the words written, that ye may save both 
yourselves and him who reads an address in your midst. For as a reward I ask of 
you repentance with the whole heart, while ye bestow upon yourselves salvation 
and life. For by so doing we shall set a mark for all the young who wish to be 
diligent in godliness and the goodness of God. And let not us, in our folly, 
feel displeasure and indignation, whenever any one admonishes us and turns us 
from unrighteousness to righteousness. For there are some wicked deeds which we 
commit, and know it not, because of the double-mindedness and unbelief present 
in our breasts, and our understanding is darkened by vain desires. Let us, 
therefore, work righteousness, that we may be saved to the end. Blessed are they 
who obey these commandments, even if for a brief space they suffer in this 
world, and they will gather the imperishable fruit of the resurrection. Let not 
the godly man, therefore, grieve; if for the present he suffer affliction, 
blessed is the time that awaits him there; rising up to life again with the 
fathers he will rejoice for ever without a grief. 
CHAP. XX.--GODLINESS, NOT GAIN, THE TRUE RICHES. 
But let it not even trouble your mind, that we see the unrighteous possessed 
of riches and the servants of God straitened. Let us, therefore, brothers and 
sisters, believe; in a trial of the living God we strive and are exercised in 
the present life, that we may obtain the crown in that which is to come. No one 
of the righteous received fruit speedily, but waiteth for it. For if God 
tendered the reward of the righteous in a trice, straightway were it commerce 
that we practised, and not godliness. For it were as if we were righteous by 
following after not godliness but gain; and for this reason the divine judgment 
baffled the spirit that is unrighteous and heavily weighed the fetter. To the 
only God, invisible, Father of truth, who sent forth to us the Saviour and 
Author of immortality, through whom He also manifested to us the truth and the 
heavenly life, to Him be glory for ever and ever. Amen. 

