
2 Corinthians












2 Corinthians. The Second Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians 

1:1Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through 
the will of God, and Timothy our brother, unto the church of God which is at 
Corinth, with all the saints that are in the whole of Achaia: 1:2Grace to you and 
peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 1:3Blessed be 
the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of 
all comfort; 1:4who comforteth us in all our affliction, 
that we may be able to comfort them that are in any affliction, through the 
comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. 1:5For as the 
sufferings of Christ abound unto us, even so our comfort also aboundeth through 
Christ. 1:6But whether we are afflicted, it is for 
your comfort and salvation; or whether we are comforted, it is for your comfort, 
which worketh in the patient enduring of the same sufferings which we also 
suffer: 1:7and our hope for you is stedfast; 
knowing that, as ye are partakers of the sufferings, so also are ye of the 
comfort. 1:8For we would not have you ignorant, 
brethren, concerning our affliction which befell us in Asia, that we were 
weighed down exceedingly, beyond our power, insomuch that we despaired even of 
life: 1:9yea, we ourselves have had the sentence 
of death within ourselves, that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God who 
raiseth the dead: 1:10who delivered us out of so great a 
death, and will deliver: on whom we have set our hope that he will also still 
deliver us; 1:11ye also helping together on our behalf 
by your supplication; that, for the gift bestowed upon us by means of many, 
thanks may be given by many persons on our behalf. 1:12For our glorifying 
is this, the testimony of our conscience, that in holiness and sincerity of God, 
not in fleshly wisdom but in the grace of God, we behaved ourselves in the 
world, and more abundantly to you-ward. 1:13For we write no other things unto you, 
than what ye read or even acknowledge, and I hope ye will acknowledge unto the 
end: 1:14as also ye did acknowledge us in part, 
that we are your glorying, even as ye also are ours, in the day of our Lord 
Jesus. 1:15And in this confidence I was minded to 
come first unto you, that ye might have a second benefit; 1:16and by you to pass 
into Macedonia, and again from Macedonia to come unto you, and of you to be set 
forward on my journey unto Judaea. 1:17When I therefore was thus minded, did I 
show fickleness? or the things that I purpose, do I purpose according to the 
flesh, that with me there should be the yea yea and the nay nay? 1:18But as God is faithful, our word toward 
you is not yea and nay. 1:19For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who 
was preached among you by us, even by me and Silvanus and Timothy, was 
not yea and nay, but in him is yea. 1:20For how many soever be the promises of 
God, in him is the yea: wherefore also through him is the Amen, unto the glory 
of God through us. 1:21Now he that establisheth us with you in 
Christ, and anointed us, is God; 1:22who also sealed us, and gave us 
the earnest of the Spirit in our hearts. 1:23But I call God for a witness upon my 
soul, that to spare you I forbare to come unto Corinth. 1:24Not that we have 
lordship over your faith, but are helpers of your joy: for in faith ye stand 
fast. 

2:1But I determined this for myself, that I 
would not come again to you with sorrow. 2:2For if I make you sorry, who then is he 
that maketh me glad but he that is made sorry by me? 2:3And I wrote this 
very thing, lest, when I came, I should have sorrow from them of whom I ought to 
rejoice; having confidence in you all, that my joy is the joy of you all. 
2:4For out of much affliction and anguish 
of heart I wrote unto you with many tears; not that ye should be made sorry, but 
that ye might know the love that I have more abundantly unto you. 2:5But 
if any hath caused sorrow, he hath caused sorrow, not to me, but in part (that I 
press not too heavily) to you all. 2:6Sufficient to such a one is this 
punishment which was inflicted by the many; 2:7so that contrariwise 
ye should rather forgive him and comfort him, lest by any means such a one 
should be swallowed up with his overmuch sorrow. 2:8Wherefore I beseech 
you to confirm your love toward him. 2:9For to this end also 
did I write, that I might know the proof of you, whether ye are obedient in all 
things. 2:10But to whom ye forgive anything, I 
forgive also: for what I also have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, 
for your sakes have I forgiven it in the presence of Christ; 2:11that no advantage may be gained over us 
by Satan: for we are not ignorant of his devices. 2:12Now when I came to 
Troas for the gospel of Christ, and when a door was opened unto me in the Lord, 
2:13I had no relief for my spirit, because 
I found not Titus my brother: but taking my leave of them, I went forth into 
Macedonia. 2:14But thanks be unto God, who always 
leadeth us in triumph in Christ, and maketh manifest through us the savor of his 
knowledge in every place. 2:15For we are a sweet savor of Christ unto 
God, in them that are saved, and in them that perish; 2:16to the one a savor 
from death unto death; to the other a savor from life unto life. And who is 
sufficient for these things? 2:17For we are not as the many, corrupting 
the word of God: but as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God, speak 
we in Christ. 

3:1Are we beginning again to commend 
ourselves? or need we, as do some, epistles of commendation to you or from you? 
3:2Ye are our epistle, written in our 
hearts, known and read of all men; 3:3being made manifest that ye are an 
epistle of Christ, ministered by us, written not with ink, but with the Spirit 
of the living God; not in tables of stone, but in tables that are hearts 
of flesh. 3:4And such confidence have we through 
Christ to God-ward: 3:5not that we are sufficient of ourselves, 
to account anything as from ourselves; but our sufficiency is from God; 3:6who 
also made us sufficient as ministers of a new covenant; not of the letter, but 
of the spirit: for the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life. 3:7But 
if the ministration of death, written, and engraven on stones, came with 
glory, so that the children of Israel could not look stedfastly upon the face of 
Moses for the glory of his face; which glory was passing away: 3:8how 
shall not rather the ministration of the spirit be with glory? 3:9For 
if the ministration of condemnation hath glory, much rather doth the 
ministration of righteousness exceed in glory. 3:10For verily that 
which hath been made glorious hath not been made glorious in this respect, by 
reason of the glory that surpasseth. 3:11For if that which passeth away 
was with glory, much more that which remaineth is in glory. 3:12Having therefore such a hope, we use 
great boldness of speech, 3:13and are not as Moses, who 
put a veil upon his face, that the children of Israel should not look stedfastly 
on the end of that which was passing away: 3:14but their minds 
were hardened: for until this very day at the reading of the old covenant the 
same veil remaineth, it not being revealed to them that it is done away 
in Christ. 3:15But unto this day, whensoever Moses is 
read, a veil lieth upon their heart. 3:16But whensoever it shall turn to the 
Lord, the veil is taken away. 3:17Now the Lord is the Spirit: and where 
the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. 3:18But we all, with 
unveiled face beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are transformed 
into the same image from glory to glory, even as from the Lord the Spirit. 


4:1Therefore seeing we have this ministry, 
even as we obtained mercy, we faint not: 4:2but we have renounced the hidden things 
of shame, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the word of God deceitfully; 
but by the manifestation of the truth commending ourselves to every man's 
conscience in the sight of God. 4:3And even if our gospel is veiled, it is 
veiled in them that perish: 4:4in whom the god of this world hath 
blinded the minds of the unbelieving, that the light of the gospel of the glory 
of Christ, who is the image of God, should not dawn upon them. 4:5For 
we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus as Lord, and ourselves as your 
servants for Jesus' sake. 4:6Seeing it is God, that said, Light shall 
shine out of darkness, who shined in our hearts, to give the light of the 
knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. 4:7But we have this 
treasure in earthen vessels, that the exceeding greatness of the power may be of 
God, and not from ourselves; 4:8we are pressed on every side, yet 
not straitened; perplexed, yet not unto despair; 4:9pursued, yet not 
forsaken; smitten down, yet not destroyed; 4:10always bearing 
about in the body the dying of Jesus, that the life also of Jesus may be 
manifested in our body. 4:11For we who live are always delivered 
unto death for Jesus' sake, that the life also of Jesus may be manifested in our 
mortal flesh. 4:12So then death worketh in us, but life 
in you. 4:13But having the same spirit of faith, 
according to that which is written, I believed, and therefore did I speak; we 
also believe, and therefore also we speak; 4:14knowing that he 
that raised up the Lord Jesus shall raise up us also with Jesus, and shall 
present us with you. 4:15For all things are for your 
sakes, that the grace, being multiplied through the many, may cause the 
thanksgiving to abound unto the glory of God. 4:16Wherefore we faint 
not; but though our outward man is decaying, yet our inward man is renewed day 
by day. 4:17For our light affliction, which is for 
the moment, worketh for us more and more exceedingly an eternal weight of glory; 
4:18while we look not at the things which 
are seen, but at the things which are not seen: for the things which are seen 
are temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal. 


5:1For we know that if the earthly house of 
our tabernacle be dissolved, we have a building from God, a house not made with 
hands, eternal, in the heavens. 5:2For verily in this we groan, longing to 
be clothed upon with our habitation which is from heaven: 5:3if so be that being 
clothed we shall not be found naked. 5:4For indeed we that are in this 
tabernacle do groan, being burdened; not for that we would be unclothed, but 
that we would be clothed upon, that what is mortal may be swallowed up of life. 
5:5Now he that wrought us for this very 
thing is God, who gave unto us the earnest of the Spirit. 5:6Being therefore 
always of good courage, and knowing that, whilst we are at home in the body, we 
are absent from the Lord 5:7(for we walk by faith, not by sight); 5:8we 
are of good courage, I say, and are willing rather to be absent from the body, 
and to be at home with the Lord. 5:9Wherefore also we make it our aim, 
whether at home or absent, to be well-pleasing unto him. 5:10For we must all be 
made manifest before the judgment-seat of Christ; that each one may receive the 
things done in the body, according to what he hath done, whether it 
be good or bad. 5:11Knowing therefore the fear of the Lord, 
we persuade men, but we are made manifest unto God; and I hope that we are made 
manifest also in your consciences. 5:12We are not again commending ourselves 
unto you, but speak as giving you occasion of glorying on our behalf, 
that ye may have wherewith to answer them that glory in appearance, and not in 
heart. 5:13For whether we are beside ourselves, it 
is unto God; or whether we are of sober mind, it is unto you. 5:14For the love of Christ constraineth us; 
because we thus judge, that one died for all, therefore all died; 5:15and he died for all, that they that 
live should no longer live unto themselves, but unto him who for their sakes 
died and rose again. 5:16Wherefore we henceforth know no man 
after the flesh: even though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now we 
know him so no more. 5:17Wherefore if any man is in Christ, 
he is a new creature: the old things are passed away; behold, they are 
become new. 5:18But all things are of God, who 
reconciled us to himself through Christ, and gave unto us the ministry of 
reconciliation; 5:19to wit, that God was in Christ 
reconciling the world unto himself, not reckoning unto them their trespasses, 
and having committed unto us the word of reconciliation. 5:20We are ambassadors 
therefore on behalf of Christ, as though God were entreating by us: we beseech 
you on behalf of Christ, be ye reconciled to God. 5:21Him who knew no sin 
he made to be sin on our behalf; that we might become the righteousness 
of God in him. 

6:1And working together with him we 
entreat also that ye receive not the grace of God in vain 6:2(for he saith, 
 At an acceptable time I hearkened unto thee, 
 And in a day of salvation did I succor thee: 
behold, now is the acceptable time; behold, now is the day of salvation): 6:3giving no occasion of stumbling in 
anything, that our ministration be not blamed; 6:4but in everything 
commending ourselves, as ministers of God, in much patience, in afflictions, in 
necessities, in distresses, 6:5in stripes, in imprisonments, in 
tumults, in labors, in watchings, in fastings; 6:6in pureness, in 
knowledge, in long suffering, in kindness, in the Holy Spirit, in love 
unfeigned, 6:7in the word of truth, in the power of 
God; by the armor of righteousness on the right hand and on the left, 6:8by 
glory and dishonor, by evil report and good report; as deceivers, and yet 
true; 6:9as unknown, and yet well known; 
as dying, and behold, we live; as chastened, and not killed; 6:10as sorrowful, yet 
always rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, and 
yet possessing all things. 6:11Our mouth is open unto you, O 
Corinthians, our heart is enlarged. 6:12Ye are not straitened in us, but ye are 
straitened in your own affections. 6:13Now for a recompense in like kind (I 
speak as unto my children), be ye also enlarged. 6:14Be not unequally 
yoked with unbelievers: for what fellowship have righteousness and iniquity? or 
what communion hath light with darkness? 6:15And what concord hath Christ with 
Belial? or what portion hath a believer with an unbeliever? 6:16And what agreement 
hath a temple of God with idols? for we are a temple of the living God; even as 
God said, I will dwell in them, and walk in them; and I will be their God, and 
they shall be my people. 6:17Wherefore 
 Come ye out from among them, and be ye separate, 
saith the Lord, 
 And touch no unclean thing; 
 And I will receive you, 
 6:18And will be to you a Father, 
 And ye shall be to me sons and daughters, 
saith the Lord Almighty. 

7:1Having therefore these promises, 
beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and spirit, 
perfecting holiness in the fear of God. 7:2Open your hearts to us: we wronged no 
man, we corrupted no man, we took advantage of no man. 7:3I say it not to 
condemn you: for I have said before, that ye are in our hearts to die 
together and live together. 7:4Great is my boldness of speech toward 
you, great is my glorying on your behalf: I am filled with comfort, I overflow 
with joy in all our affliction. 7:5For even when we were come into 
Macedonia our flesh had no relief, but we were afflicted on every side; 
without were fightings, within were fears. 7:6Nevertheless he that 
comforteth the lowly, even God, comforted us by the coming of Titus; 7:7and 
not by his coming only, but also by the comfort wherewith he was comforted in 
you, while he told us your longing, your mourning, your zeal for me; so that I 
rejoiced yet more. 7:8For though I made you sorry with my 
epistle, I do not regret it: though I did regret it (for I see that that 
epistle made you sorry, though but for a season), 7:9I now rejoice, not 
that ye were made sorry, but that ye were made sorry unto repentance; for ye 
were made sorry after a godly sort, that ye might suffer loss by us in nothing. 
7:10For godly sorrow worketh repentance 
unto salvation, a repentance which bringeth no regret: but the sorrow of 
the world worketh death. 7:11For behold, this selfsame thing, that 
ye were made sorry after a godly sort, what earnest care it wrought in you, yea 
what clearing of yourselves, yea what indignation, yea what fear, yea what 
longing, yea what zeal, yea what avenging! In everything ye approved yourselves 
to be pure in the matter. 7:12So although I wrote unto you, I 
wrote not for his cause that did the wrong, nor for his cause that 
suffered the wrong, but that your earnest care for us might be made manifest 
unto you in the sight of God. 7:13Therefore we have been comforted: And 
in our comfort we joyed the more exceedingly for the joy of Titus, because his 
spirit hath been refreshed by you all. 7:14For if in anything I have gloried to 
him on your behalf, I was not put to shame; but as we spake all things to you in 
truth, so our glorying also which I made before Titus was found to be truth. 7:15And his affection is more abundantly 
toward you, while he remembereth the obedience of you all, how with fear and 
trembling ye received him. 7:16I rejoice that in everything I am of 
good courage concerning you. 

8:1Moreover, brethren, we make known to you 
the grace of God which hath been given in the churches of Macedonia; 8:2how 
that in much proof of affliction the abundance of their joy and their deep 
poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality. 8:3For according to 
their power, I bear witness, yea and beyond their power, they gave of 
their own accord, 8:4beseeching us with much entreaty in 
regard of this grace and the fellowship in the ministering to the saints: 8:5and 
this, not as we had hoped, but first they gave their own selves to the 
Lord, and to us through the will of God. 8:6Insomuch that we exhorted Titus, that as 
he made a beginning before, so he would also complete in you this grace also. 8:7But 
as ye abound in everything, in faith, and utterance, and knowledge, and 
in all earnestness, and in your love to us, see that ye 
abound in this grace also. 8:8I speak not by way of commandment, but 
as proving through the earnestness of others the sincerity also of your love. 8:9For 
ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though he was rich, yet for 
your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might become rich. 8:10And herein I give my judgment: 
for this is expedient for you, who were the first to make a beginning a year 
ago, not only to do, but also to will. 8:11But now complete the doing also; that 
as there was the readiness to will, so there may be the completion 
also out of your ability. 8:12For if the readiness is there, it 
is acceptable according as a man hath, not according as he 
hath not. 8:13For I say not this that 
others may be eased and ye distressed; 8:14but by equality: 
your abundance being a supply at this present time for their want, that 
their abundance also may become a supply for your want; that there may be 
equality: 8:15as it is written, He that 
gathered much had nothing over; and he that gathered little had no 
lack. 8:16But thanks be to God, who putteth the 
same earnest care for you into the heart of Titus. 8:17For he accepted 
indeed our exhortation; but being himself very earnest, he went forth unto you 
of his own accord. 8:18And we have sent together with him the 
brother whose praise in the gospel is spread through all the churches; 8:19and not only so, but who was also 
appointed by the churches to travel with us in the matter of this grace, 
which is ministered by us to the glory of the Lord, and to show our 
readiness: 8:20Avoiding this, that any man should 
blame us in the matter of this bounty which is ministered by us: 8:21for we take thought for things 
honorable, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men. 8:22and we have sent with them our brother, 
whom we have many times proved earnest in many things, but now much more 
earnest, by reason of the great confidence which he hath in you. 8:23Whether any inquire about Titus, 
he is my partner and my fellow-worker to you-ward, or our 
brethren, they are the messengers of the churches, they are the 
glory of Christ. 8:24Show ye therefore unto them in the face 
of the churches the proof of your love, and of our glorying on your behalf. 

9:1For as touching the ministering to the 
saints, it is superfluous for me to write to you: 9:2for I know your 
readiness, of which I glory on your behalf to them of Macedonia, that Achaia 
hath been prepared for a year past; and your zeal hath stirred up very many of 
them. 9:3But I have sent the brethren, that our 
glorying on your behalf may not be made void in this respect; that, even as I 
said, ye may be prepared: 9:4lest by any means, if there come with me 
any of Macedonia and find you unprepared, we (that we say not, ye) should be put 
to shame in this confidence. 9:5I thought it necessary therefore to 
entreat the brethren, that they would go before unto you, and make up beforehand 
your aforepromised bounty, that the same might be ready as a matter of bounty, 
and not of extortion. 9:6But this I say, He that soweth 
sparingly shall reap also sparingly; and he that soweth bountifully shall reap 
also bountifully. 9:7Let each man do according 
as he hath purposed in his heart: not grudgingly, or of necessity: for God 
loveth a cheerful giver. 9:8And God is able to make all grace abound 
unto you; that ye, having always all sufficiency in everything, may abound unto 
every good work: 9:9as it is written, 
 He hath scattered abroad, he hath given to the poor; 
 His righteousness abideth for ever. 
9:10And he that supplieth seed to the sower 
and bread for food, shall supply and multiply your seed for sowing, and increase 
the fruits of your righteousness: 9:11ye being enriched in everything unto 
all liberality, which worketh through us thanksgiving to God. 9:12For the ministration of this service 
not only filleth up the measure of the wants of the saints, but aboundeth also 
through many thanksgivings unto God; 9:13seeing that through the proving of 
you by this ministration they glorify God for the obedience of your 
confession unto the gospel of Christ, and for the liberality of your 
contribution unto them and unto all; 9:14while they themselves also, with 
supplication on your behalf, long after you by reason of the exceeding grace of 
God in you. 9:15Thanks be to God for his unspeakable 
gift. 

10:1Now I Paul myself entreat you by the 
meekness and gentleness of Christ, I who in your presence am lowly among you, 
but being absent am of good courage toward you: 10:2yea, I beseech you, 
that I may not when present show courage with the confidence wherewith I count 
to be bold against some, who count of us as if we walked according to the flesh. 
10:3For though we walk in the flesh, we do 
not war according to the flesh 10:4(for the weapons of our warfare are not 
of the flesh, but mighty before God to the casting down of strongholds), 10:5casting down imaginations, and every 
high thing that is exalted against the knowledge of God, and bringing every 
thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ; 10:6and being in 
readiness to avenge all disobedience, when your obedience shall be made full. 10:7Ye 
look at the things that are before your face. If any man trusteth in himself 
that he is Christ's, let him consider this again with himself, that, even as he 
is Christ's, so also are we. 10:8For though I should glory somewhat 
abundantly concerning our authority (which the Lord gave for building you up, 
and not for casting you down), I shall not be put to shame: 10:9that I may not seem 
as if I would terrify you by my letters. 10:10For, His letters, 
they say, are weighty and strong; but his bodily presence is weak, and his 
speech of no account. 10:11Let such a one reckon this, that, what 
we are in word by letters when we are absent, such are we also in deed 
when we are present. 10:12For we are not bold to number or 
compare ourselves with certain of them that commend themselves: but they 
themselves, measuring themselves by themselves, and comparing themselves with 
themselves, are without understanding. 10:13But we will not glory beyond 
our measure, but according to the measure of the province which God 
apportioned to us as a measure, to reach even unto you. 10:14For we stretch not 
ourselves overmuch, as though we reached not unto you: for we came even as far 
as unto you in the gospel of Christ: 10:15not glorying beyond our 
measure, that is, in other men's labors; but having hope that, as your 
faith groweth, we shall be magnified in you according to our province unto 
further abundance, 10:16so as to preach the gospel even unto 
the parts beyond you, and not to glory in another's province in regard of 
things ready to our hand. 10:17But he that glorieth, let him glory in 
the Lord. 10:18For not he that commendeth himself is 
approved, but whom the Lord commendeth. 

11:1Would that ye could bear with me in a 
little foolishness: but indeed ye do bear with me. 11:2For I am jealous 
over you with a godly jealousy: for I espoused you to one husband, that I might 
present you as a pure virgin to Christ. 11:3But I fear, lest by 
any means, as the serpent beguiled Eve in his craftiness, your minds should be 
corrupted from the simplicity and the purity that is toward Christ. 11:4For if he that cometh preacheth another 
Jesus, whom we did not preach, or if ye receive a different spirit, which 
ye did not receive, or a different gospel, which ye did not accept, ye do well 
to bear with him. 11:5For I reckon that I am not a whit 
behind the very chiefest apostles. 11:6But though I be rude in speech, 
yet am I not in knowledge; nay, in every way have we made this 
manifest unto you in all things. 11:7Or did I commit a sin in abasing myself 
that ye might be exalted, because I preached to you the gospel of God for 
nought? 11:8I robbed other churches, taking wages 
of them that I might minister unto you; 11:9and when I was 
present with you and was in want, I was not a burden on any man; for the 
brethren, when they came from Macedonia, supplied the measure of my want; and in 
everything I kept myself from being burdensome unto you, and so will I 
keep myself. 11:10As the truth of Christ is in me, no 
man shall stop me of this glorying in the regions of Achaia. 11:11Wherefore? because I love you not? God 
knoweth. 11:12But what I do, that I will do, that I 
may cut off occasion from them that desire an occasion; that wherein they glory, 
they may be found even as we. 11:13For such men are false apostles, 
deceitful workers, fashioning themselves into apostles of Christ. 11:14And no marvel; for even Satan 
fashioneth himself into an angel of light. 11:15It is no great 
thing therefore if his ministers also fashion themselves as ministers of 
righteousness, whose end shall be according to their works. 11:16I say again, let 
no man think me foolish; but if ye do, yet as foolish receive me, that I 
also may glory a little. 11:17That which I speak, I speak not after 
the Lord, but as in foolishness, in this confidence of glorying. 11:18Seeing that many glory after the 
flesh, I will glory also. 11:19For ye bear with the foolish gladly, 
being wise yourselves. 11:20For ye bear with a man, if he bringeth 
you into bondage, if he devoureth you, if he taketh you captive, if he 
exalteth himself, if he smiteth you on the face. 11:21I speak by way of 
disparagement, as though we had been weak. Yet whereinsoever any is bold (I 
speak in foolishness), I am bold also. 11:22Are they Hebrews? so am I. Are they 
Israelites? so am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? so am I. 11:23Are they ministers 
of Christ? (I speak as one beside himself) I more; in labors more abundantly, in 
prisons more abundantly, in stripes above measure, in deaths oft. 11:24Of the Jews five times received I 
forty stripes save one. 11:25Thrice was I beaten with rods, once 
was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, a night and a day have I been in the 
deep; 11:26in journeyings often, in 
perils of rivers, in perils of robbers, in perils from my 
countrymen, in perils from the Gentiles, in perils in the city, 
in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in 
perils among false brethren; 11:27in labor and travail, in 
watchings often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness. 
11:28Besides those things that are without, 
there is that which presseth upon me daily, anxiety for all the churches. 11:29Who is weak, and I am not weak? who is 
caused to stumble, and I burn not? 11:30If I must needs glory, I will glory of 
the things that concern my weakness. 11:31The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, 
he who is blessed for evermore knoweth that I lie not. 11:32In Damascus the 
governor under Aretas the king guarded the city of the Damascenes in order to 
take me: 11:33and through a window was I let down in 
a basket by the wall, and escaped his hands. 

12:1I must needs glory, though it is not 
expedient; but I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. 12:2I 
know a man in Christ, fourteen years ago (whether in the body, I know not; or 
whether out of the body, I know not; God knoweth), such a one caught up even to 
the third heaven. 12:3And I know such a man (whether in the 
body, or apart from the body, I know not; God knoweth), 12:4how that he was 
caught up into Paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for 
a man to utter. 12:5On behalf of such a one will I glory: 
but on mine own behalf I will not glory, save in my weaknesses. 12:6For if I should desire to glory, I 
shall not be foolish; for I shall speak the truth: but I forbear, lest any man 
should account of me above that which he seeth me to be, or heareth from 
me. 12:7And by reason of the exceeding 
greatness of the revelations, that I should not be exalted overmuch, there was 
given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to buffet me, that I 
should not be exalted overmuch. 12:8Concerning this thing I besought the 
Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. 12:9And he hath said 
unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my power is made perfect in 
weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my weaknesses, that the 
power of Christ may rest upon me. 12:10Wherefore I take pleasure in 
weaknesses, in injuries, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses, for 
Christ's sake: for when I am weak, then am I strong. 12:11I am become 
foolish: ye compelled me; for I ought to have been commended of you: for in 
nothing was I behind the very chiefest apostles, though I am nothing. 12:12Truly the signs of an apostle were 
wrought among you in all patience, by signs and wonders and mighty works. 12:13For what is there wherein ye were made 
inferior to the rest of the churches, except it be that I myself was not 
a burden to you? forgive me this wrong. 12:14Behold, this is the third time I am 
ready to come to you; and I will not be a burden to you: for I seek not yours, 
but you: for the children ought not to lay up for the parents, but the parents 
for the children. 12:15And I will most gladly spend and be 
spent for your souls. If I love you more abundantly, am I loved the less? 12:16But be it so, I did not myself burden 
you; but, being crafty, I caught you with guile. 12:17Did I take 
advantage of you by any one of them whom I have sent unto you? 12:18I exhorted Titus, and I sent the 
brother with him. Did Titus take any advantage of you? walked we not in the same 
spirit? walked we not in the same steps? 12:19Ye think all this 
time that we are excusing ourselves unto you. In the sight of God speak we in 
Christ. But all things, beloved, are for your edifying. 12:20For I fear, lest by any means, when I 
come, I should find you not such as I would, and should myself be found of you 
such as ye would not; lest by any means there should be strife, jealousy, 
wraths, factions, backbitings, whisperings, swellings, tumults; 12:21lest again when I come my God should 
humble me before you, and I should mourn for many of them that have sinned 
heretofore, and repented not of the uncleanness and fornication and 
lasciviousness which they committed. 

13:1This is the third time I am coming to 
you. At the mouth of two witnesses or three shall every word established. 13:2I 
have said beforehand, and I do say beforehand, as when I was present the second 
time, so now, being absent, to them that have sinned heretofore, and to all the 
rest, that, if I come again, I will not spare; 13:3seeing that ye seek 
a proof of Christ that speaketh in me; who to you-ward is not weak, but is 
powerful in you: 13:4for he was crucified through weakness, 
yet he liveth through the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but we 
shall live with him through the power of God toward you. 13:5Try your own 
selves, whether ye are in the faith; prove your own selves. Or know ye not as to 
your own selves, that Jesus Christ is in you? unless indeed ye be reprobate. 13:6But I hope that ye shall know that we 
are not reprobate. 13:7Now we pray to God that ye do no evil; 
not that we may appear approved, but that ye may do that which is honorable, 
though we be as reprobate. 13:8For we can do nothing against the 
truth, but for the truth. 13:9For we rejoice, when we are weak, and 
ye are strong: this we also pray for, even your perfecting. 13:10For this cause I 
write these things while absent, that I may not when present deal sharply, 
according to the authority which the Lord gave me for building up, and not for 
casting down. 13:11Finally, brethren, farewell. Be 
perfected; be comforted; be of the same mind; live in peace: and the God of love 
and peace shall be with you. 13:12Salute one another with a holy kiss. 
13:13All the saints salute you. 13:14The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, 
and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Spirit, be with you all. 

