
2 Timothy












2 Timothy. The Second Epistle of Paul the Apostle to Timothy 

1:1Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through 
the will of God, according to the promise of the life which is in Christ Jesus, 
1:2to Timothy, my beloved child: Grace, 
mercy, peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. 1:3I thank God, whom I 
serve from my forefathers in a pure conscience, how unceasing is my remembrance 
of thee in my supplications, night and day 1:4longing to see thee, 
remembering thy tears, that I may be filled with joy; 1:5having been reminded 
of the unfeigned faith that is in thee; which dwelt first in thy grandmother 
Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and, I am persuaded, in thee also. 1:6For 
which cause I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which 
is in thee through the laying on of my hands. 1:7For God gave us not 
a spirit of fearfulness; but of power and love and discipline. 1:8Be 
not ashamed therefore of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner: but 
suffer hardship with the gospel according to the power of God; 1:9who 
saved us, and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but 
according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus 
before times eternal, 1:10but hath now been manifested by the 
appearing of our Saviour Christ Jesus, who abolished death, and brought life and 
immortality to light through the gospel, 1:11whereunto I was appointed a preacher, 
and an apostle, and a teacher. 1:12For which cause I suffer also these 
things: yet I am not ashamed; for I know him whom I have believed, and I am 
persuaded that he is able to guard that which I have committed unto him against 
that day. 1:13Hold the pattern of sound words which 
thou hast heard from me, in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. 1:14That good thing which was committed 
unto thee guard through the Holy Spirit which dwelleth in us. 1:15This thou knowest, that all that are in 
Asia turned away from me; of whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes. 1:16The Lord grant mercy unto the house of 
Onesiphorus: for he oft refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain; 1:17but, when he was in Rome, he sought me 
diligently, and found me 1:18(the Lord grant unto him to find mercy 
of the Lord in that day); and in how many things he ministered at Ephesus, thou 
knowest very well. 

2:1Thou therefore, my child, be 
strengthened in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. 2:2And the things which 
thou hast heard from me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful 
men, who shall be able to teach others also. 2:3Suffer hardship with 
me, as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. 2:4No soldier on 
service entangleth himself in the affairs of this life; that he may 
please him who enrolled him as a soldier. 2:5And if also a man contend in the games, 
he is not crowded, except he have contended lawfully. 2:6The husbandmen that 
laboreth must be the first to partake of the fruits. 2:7Consider what I say; 
for the Lord shall give thee understanding in all things. 2:8Remember Jesus 
Christ, risen from the dead, of the seed of David, according to my gospel: 2:9wherein I suffer hardship unto bonds, as 
a malefactor; but the word of God is not bound. 2:10Therefore I endure 
all things for the elect's sake, that they also may obtain the salvation which 
is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. 2:11Faithful is the saying: For if we died 
with him, we shall also live with him: 2:12if we endure, we shall also reign with 
him: if we shall deny him, he also will deny us: 2:13if we are 
faithless, he abideth faithful; for he cannot deny himself. 2:14Of these things put 
them in remembrance, charging them in the sight of the Lord, that they 
strive not about words, to no profit, to the subverting of them that hear. 2:15Give diligence to present thyself 
approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, handling aright the 
word of truth. 2:16But shun profane babblings: for they 
will proceed further in ungodliness, 2:17and their word will eat as doth a 
gangrene: or whom is Hymenaeus an Philetus; 2:18men who concerning 
the truth have erred, saying that the resurrection is past already, and 
overthrow the faith of some. 2:19Howbeit the firm foundation of God 
standeth, having this seal, The Lord knoweth them that are his: and, Let every 
one that nameth the name of the Lord depart from unrighteousness. 2:20Now in a great house there are not only 
vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earth; and some unto 
honor, and some unto dishonor. 2:21If a man therefore purge himself from 
these, he shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified, meet for the master's use, 
prepared unto every good work. 2:22after righteousness, faith, love, pace, 
with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart. 2:23But foolish and 
ignorant questionings refuse, knowing that they gender strifes. 2:24And the Lord's servant must not strive, 
but be gentle towards all, apt to teach, forbearing, 2:25in meekness 
correcting them that oppose themselves; if peradventure God may give them 
repentance unto the knowledge of the truth, 2:26and they may 
recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, having been taken captive by 
him unto his will. 

3:1But know this, that in the last days 
grievous times shall come. 3:2For men shall be lovers of self, lovers 
of money, boastful, haughty, railers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, 
unholy, 3:3without natural affection, implacable, 
slanderers, without self-control, fierce, no lovers of good, 3:4traitors, 
headstrong, puffed up, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God; 3:5holding a form of godliness, but having 
denied the power therefore. From these also turn away. 3:6For of these are 
they that creep into houses, and take captive silly women laden with sins, led 
away by divers lusts, 3:7ever learning, and never able to come to 
the knowledge of the truth. 3:8And even as Jannes and Jambres withstood 
Moses, so do these also withstand the truth. Men corrupted in mind, reprobate 
concerning the faith. 3:9But they shall proceed no further. For 
their folly shall be evident unto all men, as theirs also came to be. 3:10But thou didst follow my teaching, 
conduct, purpose, faith, longsuffering, love, patience, 3:11persecutions, 
sufferings. What things befell me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra; what 
persecutions I endured. And out of them all the Lord delivered me. 3:12Yea, and all that would live godly in 
Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. 3:13But evil men and impostors shall wax 
worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. 3:14But abide thou in 
the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom 
thou hast learned them. 3:15And that from a babe thou hast known 
the sacred writings which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through 
faith which is in Christ Jesus. 3:16Every scripture inspired of God 
is also profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for 
instruction which is in righteousness. 3:17That the man of God may be complete, 
furnished completely unto every good work. 


4:1I charge thee in the sight of 
God, and of Christ Jesus, who shall judge the living and the dead, and by his 
appearing and his kingdom: 4:2preach the word; be urgent in season, 
out of season; reprove, rebuke, exhort, with all longsuffering and teaching. 4:3For 
the time will come when they will not endure the sound doctrine; but, having 
itching ears, will heap to themselves teachers after their own lusts; 4:4and 
will turn away their ears from the truth, and turn aside unto fables. 4:5But 
be thou sober in all things, suffer hardship, do the work of an evangelist, 
fulfil thy ministry. 4:6For I am already being offered, and the 
time of my departure is come. 4:7I have fought the good fight, I have 
finished the course, I have kept the faith: 4:8henceforth there is 
laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, 
shall give to me at that day; and not to me only, but also to all them that have 
loved his appearing. 4:9Give diligence to come shortly unto me: 
4:10for Demas forsook me, having loved this 
present world, and went to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia. 
4:11Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and 
bring him with thee; for he is useful to me for ministering. 4:12But Tychicus I sent 
to Ephesus. 4:13The cloak that I left at Troas with 
Carpus, bring when thou comest, and the books, especially the parchments. 4:14Alexander the coppersmith did me much 
evil: the Lord will render to him according to his works: 4:15of whom do thou 
also beware; for he greatly withstood our words. 4:16At my first defence 
no one took my part, but all forsook me: may it not be laid to their account. 4:17But the Lord stood by me, and 
strengthened me; that through me the message might me fully proclaimed, and that 
all the Gentiles might hear: and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. 
4:18The Lord will deliver me from every 
evil work, and will save me unto his heavenly kingdom: to whom be the 
glory forever and ever. Amen. 4:19Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the house 
of Onesiphorus. 4:20Erastus remained at Corinth: but 
Trophimus I left at Miletus sick. 4:21Give diligence to come before winter. 
Eubulus saluteth thee, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren. 
4:22The Lord be with thy spirit. Grace be 
with you. 

