
The Acts of the Apostles












Acts 

1:1The first book I wrote, Theophilus, 
concerned all that Jesus began both to do and to teach, 1:2until the day in 
which he was received up, after he had given commandment through the Holy Spirit 
to the apostles whom he had chosen. 1:3To these he also showed himself alive 
after he suffered, by many proofs, appearing to them over a period of forty 
days, and speaking about God's Kingdom. 1:4Being assembled together with them, he 
charged them, "Don't depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the 
promise of the Father, which you heard from me. 1:5For John indeed baptized in water, but you will be baptized in the 
Holy Spirit not many days from now."
1:6Therefore, when they had come together, 
they asked him, "Lord, are you now restoring the kingdom to Israel?" 
1:7He said to them, "It 
isn't for you to know times or seasons which the Father has set within His own 
authority. 1:8But you will receive 
power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. You will be witnesses to me in 
Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria, and to the uttermost parts of the 
earth."
1:9When he had said these things, as they 
were looking, he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight. 1:10While they were looking steadfastly 
into the sky as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white clothing, 1:11who also said, "You men of Galilee, why 
do you stand looking into the sky? This Jesus, who was received up from you into 
the sky will come back in the same way as you saw him going into the sky." 
1:12Then they returned to Jerusalem from 
the mountain called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey 
away. 1:13When they had come in, they went up 
into the upper room, where they were staying; that is Peter, John, James, 
Andrew, Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew, Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, Simon 
the Zealot, and Judas the son of James. 1:14All these with one accord continued 
steadfastly in prayer and supplication, along with the women, and Mary the 
mother of Jesus, and with his brothers. 
1:15In these days, Peter stood up in the 
midst of the disciples (and the number of names was about one hundred twenty), 
and said, 1:16"Brothers, it was necessary that this 
Scripture should be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke before by the mouth 
of David concerning Judas, who was guide to those who took Jesus. 1:17For he was numbered with us, and 
received his portion in this ministry. 1:18Now this man obtained a field with the 
reward for his wickedness, and falling headlong, his body burst open, and all 
his intestines gushed out. 1:19It became known to everyone who lived 
in Jerusalem that in their language that field was called 'Akeldama,' that is, 
'The field of blood.' 1:20For it is written in the book of 
Psalms, 
 'Let his habitation be made 
desolate,      Let no one dwell therein,' 
and, 
 'Let another take his office.' 
1:21Of the men therefore who have 
accompanied us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, 1:22beginning from the baptism of John, to 
the day that he was received up from us, of these one must become a witness with 
us of his resurrection." 
1:23They put forward two, Joseph called 
Barsabbas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias. 1:24They prayed, and 
said, "You, Lord, who know the hearts of all men, show which one of these two 
you have chosen 1:25to take part in this ministry and 
apostleship from which Judas fell away, that he might go to his own place." 1:26They drew lots for them, and the lot 
fell on Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles. 
2:1Now when the day of Pentecost had come, 
they were all with one accord in one place. 2:2Suddenly there came 
from the sky a sound like the rushing of a mighty wind, and it filled all the 
house where they were sitting. 2:3Tongues like fire appeared and were 
distributed to them, and one sat on each of them. 2:4They were all filled 
with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other languages, as the Spirit 
gave them the ability to speak. 2:5Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem 
Jews, devout men, from every nation under the sky. 2:6When this sound was 
heard, the multitude came together, and were bewildered, because everyone heard 
them speaking in his own language. 2:7They were all amazed and marveled, 
saying to one another, "Behold, aren't all these who speak Galileans? 2:8How 
do we hear, everyone in our own native language? 2:9Parthians, Medes, 
Elamites, and people from Mesopotamia, Judea, Cappadocia, Pontus, Asia, 2:10Phrygia, Pamphylia, Egypt, the parts of 
Libya around Cyrene, visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, 2:11Cretans and Arabians: we hear them 
speaking in our languages the mighty works of God!" 2:12They were all 
amazed, and were perplexed, saying one to another, "What does this mean?" 2:13Others, mocking, said, "They are filled 
with new wine." 
2:14But Peter, standing up with the eleven, 
lifted up his voice, and spoke out to them, "You men of Judea, and all you who 
dwell at Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and listen to my words. 2:15For these aren't drunken, as you 
suppose, seeing it is only the third hour of the 
day. 2:16But this is what has been spoken 
through the prophet Joel: 
 2:17'It will be in the last days, says 
God,      That I will pour out my Spirit on 
all flesh. 
 Your sons and your daughters will 
prophesy.      Your young men will see 
visions.      Your old men will dream dreams. 
 2:18Yes, and on my servants and on my 
handmaidens in those days,      I will pour 
out my Spirit, and they will prophesy. 
 2:19I will show wonders in the sky 
above,      And signs on the earth 
beneath;      Blood, and fire, and billows of 
smoke. 
 2:20The sun will be turned into 
darkness,      And the moon into 
blood,      Before the great and glorious day 
of the Lord comes.      2:21It will be, that 
whoever will call on the name of the Lord will be saved.' 
2:22"Men of Israel, hear these words! Jesus 
of Nazareth, a man approved by God to you by mighty works and wonders and signs 
which God did by him in the midst of you, even as you yourselves know, 2:23him, being delivered up by the 
determined counsel and foreknowledge of God, you have taken by the hand of 
lawless men, crucified and killed; 2:24whom God raised up, having freed him 
from the agony of death, because it was not possible that he should be held by 
it. 2:25For David says concerning him, 
 'I saw the Lord always before my 
face,      For he is on my right hand, that I 
should not be moved. 
 2:26Therefore my heart was glad, and my 
tongue rejoiced.      Moreover my flesh also 
will dwell in hope; 
 2:27Because you will not leave my soul in 
Hades,      Neither will you allow your Holy 
One to see decay. 
 2:28You made known to me the ways of 
life.      You will make me full of gladness 
with your presence.' 
2:29"Brothers, I may tell you freely of the 
patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to 
this day. 2:30Therefore, being a prophet, and knowing 
that God had sworn with an oath to him that of the fruit of his body, according 
to the flesh, he would raise up the Christ to sit on his throne, 2:31he 
foreseeing this spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that neither was his 
soul left in Hades, nor did his flesh see decay. 2:32This Jesus God 
raised up, to which we all are witnesses. 2:33Being therefore 
exalted by the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the 
promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this, which you now see and hear. 
2:34For David didn't ascend into the 
heavens, but he says himself, 
 'The Lord said to my Lord, "Sit by my right 
hand,      2:35Until I make your 
enemies a footstool for your feet."' 
2:36"Let all the house of Israel therefore 
know assuredly that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you 
crucified." 
2:37Now when they heard this, they were cut 
to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, "Brothers, what 
shall we do?" 
2:38Peter said to them, "Repent, and be 
baptized, everyone of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of 
sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. 2:39For to you is the 
promise, and to your children, and to all who are far off, even as many as the 
Lord our God will call to himself." 2:40With many other words he testified, and 
exhorted them, saying, "Save yourselves from this crooked generation!" 
2:41Then those who gladly received his word 
were baptized. There were added that day about three thousand souls. 2:42They continued steadfastly in the 
apostles' teaching and fellowship, in the breaking of bread, and prayer. 2:43Fear came on every soul, and many 
wonders and signs were done through the apostles. 2:44All who believed 
were together, and had all things in common. 2:45They sold their 
possessions and goods, and distributed them to all, according as anyone had 
need. 2:46Day by day, continuing steadfastly with 
one accord in the temple, and breaking bread at home, they took their food with 
gladness and singleness of heart, 2:47praising God, and having favor with all 
the people. The Lord added to the assembly day by day those who were being 
saved. 
3:1Peter and John were going up into the 
temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth hour. 3:2A 
certain man who was lame from his mother's womb was being carried, whom they 
laid daily at the door of the temple which is called Beautiful, to ask gifts for 
the needy of those who entered into the temple. 3:3Seeing Peter and 
John about to go into the temple, he asked to receive gifts for the needy. 3:4Peter, fastening his eyes on him, with 
John, said, "Look at us." 3:5He listened to them, expecting to 
receive something from them. 3:6But Peter said, "Silver and gold have I 
none, but what I have, that I give you. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, 
get up and walk!" 3:7He took him by the right hand, and 
raised him up. Immediately his feet and his ankle bones received strength. 3:8Leaping up, he stood, and began to walk. 
He entered with them into the temple, walking, leaping, and praising God. 3:9All 
the people saw him walking and praising God. 3:10They recognized 
him, that it was he who used to sit begging for gifts for the needy at the 
Beautiful Gate of the temple. They were filled with wonder and amazement at what 
had happened to him. 3:11As the lame man who was healed held on 
to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the porch that is 
called Solomon's, greatly wondering. 
3:12When Peter saw it, he responded to the 
people, "You men of Israel, why do you marvel at this man? Why do you fasten 
your eyes on us, as though by our own power or godliness we had made him walk? 
3:13The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, 
the God of our fathers, has glorified his Servant Jesus, whom you delivered up, 
and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had determined to release him. 3:14But you denied the Holy and Righteous 
One, and asked for a murderer to be granted to you, 3:15and killed the 
Prince of life, whom God raised from the dead, to which we are witnesses. 3:16By 
faith in his name has his name made this man strong, whom you see and know. Yes, 
the faith which is through him has given him this perfect soundness in the 
presence of you all. 
3:17"Now, brothers, I know that you 
did this in ignorance, as did also your rulers. 3:18But the things 
which God announced by the mouth of all his prophets, that Christ should suffer, 
he thus fulfilled. 
3:19"Repent therefore, and turn again, that 
your sins may be blotted out, so that there may come times of refreshing from 
the presence of the Lord, 3:20and that he may send Christ Jesus, who 
was ordained for you before, 3:21whom heaven must receive until the 
times of restoration of all things, which God spoke long ago by the mouth of his 
holy prophets. 3:22For Moses indeed said to the fathers, 
'The Lord God will raise up a prophet for you from among your brothers, like me. 
You shall listen to him in all things whatever he says to you. 3:23It 
will be, that every soul that will not listen to that prophet will be utterly 
destroyed from among the people.' 3:24Yes, and all the prophets from Samuel 
and those who followed after, as many as have spoken, they also told of these 
days. 3:25You are the children of the prophets, 
and of the covenant which God made with our fathers, saying to Abraham, 'In your 
seed will all the families of the earth be blessed.' 3:26God, having raised 
up his servant, Jesus, sent him to you first, to bless you, in turning away 
everyone of you from your wickedness." 
4:1As they spoke to the people, the priests 
and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came to them, 4:2being upset because 
they taught the people and proclaimed in Jesus the resurrection from the dead. 
4:3They laid hands on them, and put them in 
custody until the next day, for it was now evening. 4:4But many of those 
who heard the word believed, and the number of the men came to be about five 
thousand. 
4:5It happened in the morning, that their 
rulers, elders, and scribes were gathered together in Jerusalem. 4:6Annas the high priest was there, with 
Caiaphas, John, Alexander, and as many as were relatives of the high priest. 4:7When 
they had stood them in the middle of them, they inquired, "By what power, or in 
what name, have you done this?" 
4:8Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, 
said to them, "You rulers of the people, and elders of Israel, 4:9if 
we are examined today concerning a good deed done to a crippled man, by what 
means this man has been healed, 4:10be it known to you all, and to all the 
people of Israel, that in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you 
crucified, whom God raised from the dead, in him does this man stand here before 
you whole. 4:11He is 'the stone which was regarded as 
worthless by you, the builders, which has become the head of the corner.' 4:12There is salvation in none other, for 
neither is there any other name under heaven, that is given among men, by which 
we must be saved!" 
4:13Now when they saw the boldness of Peter 
and John, and had perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they 
marveled. They recognized that they had been with Jesus. 4:14Seeing the man who 
was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it. 4:15But when they had commanded them to go 
aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves, 4:16saying, "What shall 
we do to these men? Because indeed a notable miracle has been done through them, 
as can be plainly seen by all who dwell in Jerusalem, and we can't deny it. 4:17But so that this spreads no further 
among the people, let's threaten them, that from now on they don't speak to 
anyone in this name." 4:18They called them, and charged them not 
to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus. 
4:19But Peter and John answered them, 
"Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God, 
judge for yourselves, 4:20for we can't help telling the things 
which we saw and heard." 
4:21When they had further threatened them, 
they let them go, finding no way to punish them, because of the people; for 
everyone glorified God for that which was done. 4:22For the man on whom 
this miracle of healing was performed was more than forty years old. 
4:23Being let go, they came to their own 
company, and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to 
them. 4:24When they heard it, they lifted up 
their voice to God with one accord, and said, "O Lord, you are God, who made the 
heaven, the earth, the sea, and all that is in them; 4:25who by the mouth of 
your servant, David, said, 
 'Why do the nations rage,      And 
the peoples plot a vain thing? 
 4:26The kings of the earth take a 
stand,      And the rulers take council 
together,      Against the Lord, and against 
his Christ.' 
4:27For truly, in this city against your 
holy servant, Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the 
Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together 4:28to do whatever your 
hand and your council foreordained to happen. 4:29Now, Lord, look at 
their threats, and grant to your servants to speak your word with all boldness, 
4:30while you stretch out your hand to 
heal; and that signs and wonders may be done through the name of your holy 
Servant Jesus." 
4:31When they had prayed, the place was 
shaken where they were gathered together. They were all filled with the Holy 
Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with boldness. 4:32The multitude of 
those who believed were of one heart and soul. Not one of them claimed that 
anything of the things which he possessed was his own, but they had all things 
in common. 4:33With great power, the apostles gave 
their testimony of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. Great grace was on them 
all. 4:34For neither was there among them any 
who lacked, for as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them, and brought 
the proceeds of the things that were sold, 4:35and laid them at 
the apostles' feet, and distribution was made to each, according as anyone had 
need. 4:36Joses, who by the apostles was surnamed 
Barnabas (which is, being interpreted, Son of Encouragement), a Levite, a man of 
Cyprus by race, 4:37having a field, sold it, and brought 
the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. 
5:1But a certain man named Ananias, with 
Sapphira, his wife, sold a possession, 5:2and kept back part of the price, his 
wife also being aware of it, and brought a certain part, and laid it at the 
apostles' feet. 5:3But Peter said, "Ananias, why has Satan 
filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit, and to keep back part of the price 
of the land? 5:4While you kept it, didn't it remain your 
own? After it was sold, wasn't it in your power? How is it that you have 
conceived this thing in your heart? You haven't lied to men, but to God." 
5:5Ananias, hearing these words, fell down 
and died. Great fear came on all who heard these things. 5:6The young men arose 
and wrapped him up, and they carried him out and buried him. 5:7About three hours 
later, his wife, not knowing what had happened, came in. 5:8Peter answered her, 
"Tell me whether you sold the land for so much." 
She said, "Yes, for so much." 
5:9But Peter asked her, "How is it that you 
have agreed together to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those 
who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out." 
5:10She fell down immediately at his feet, 
and died. The young men came in and found her dead, and they carried her out and 
buried her by her husband. 5:11Great fear came on the whole assembly, 
and on all who heard these things. 5:12By the hands of the apostles many signs 
and wonders were done among the people. They were all with one accord in 
Solomon's porch. 5:13None of the rest dared to join them, 
however the people honored them. 5:14More believers were added to the Lord, 
multitudes of both men and women. 5:15They even carried out the sick into the 
streets, and laid them on cots and mattresses, so that as Peter came by, at the 
least his shadow might overshadow some of them. 5:16Multitudes also 
came together from the cities around Jerusalem, bringing sick people, and those 
who were tormented by unclean spirits: and they were all healed. 
5:17But the high priest rose up, and all 
those who were with him (which is the sect of the Sadducees), and they were 
filled with jealousy, 5:18and laid hands on the apostles, and put 
them in public custody. 5:19But an angel of the Lord opened the 
prison doors by night, and brought them out, and said, 5:20"Go stand and speak 
in the temple to the people all the words of this life." 
5:21When they heard this, they entered into 
the temple about daybreak, and taught. But the high priest came, and those who 
were with him, and called the council together, and all the senate of the 
children of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought. 5:22But the officers who came didn't find 
them in the prison. They returned and reported, 5:23"We found the 
prison shut and locked, and the guards standing before the doors, but when we 
opened them, we found no one inside!" 
5:24Now when the high priest, the captain 
of the temple, and the chief priests heard these words, they were very perplexed 
about them and what might become of this. 5:25One came and told 
them, "Behold, the men whom you put in prison are in the temple, standing and 
teaching the people." 5:26Then the captain went with the 
officers, and brought them without violence, for they were afraid that the 
people might stone them. 
5:27When they had brought them, they set 
them before the council. The high priest questioned them, 5:28saying, "Didn't we 
strictly charge you not to teach in this name? Behold, you have filled Jerusalem 
with your teaching, and intend to bring this man's blood on us." 
5:29But Peter and the apostles answered, 
"We must obey God rather than men. 5:30The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, 
whom you killed, hanging him on a tree. 5:31God exalted him with his right hand to 
be a Prince and a Savior, to give repentance to Israel, and remission of sins. 
5:32We are His witnesses of these things; 
and so also is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him." 
5:33But they, when they heard this, were 
cut to the heart, and determined to kill them. 5:34But one stood up in 
the council, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law, honored by all the 
people, and commanded to put the apostles out for a little while. 5:35He 
said to them, "You men of Israel, be careful concerning these men, what you are 
about to do. 5:36For before these days Theudas rose up, 
making himself out to be somebody; to whom a number of men, about four hundred, 
joined themselves: who was slain; and all, as many as obeyed him, were 
dispersed, and came to nothing. 5:37After this man, Judas of Galilee rose 
up in the days of the enrollment, and drew away some people after him. He also 
perished, and all, as many as obeyed him, were scattered abroad. 5:38Now I tell you, withdraw from these 
men, and leave them alone. For if this counsel or this work is of men, it will 
be overthrown. 5:39But if it is of God, you will not be 
able to overthrow it, and you would be found even to be fighting against God!" 
5:40They agreed with him. Summoning the 
apostles, they beat them and charged them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and 
let them go. 5:41They therefore departed from the 
presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer 
dishonor for Jesus' name. 
5:42Every day, in the temple and at home, 
they never stopped teaching and preaching Jesus, the Christ. 
6:1Now in those days, when the number of 
the disciples was multiplying, a complaint arose from the Grecian Jews against 
the Hebrews because their widows were neglected in the daily service. 6:2The 
twelve summoned the multitude of the disciples and said, "It is not appropriate 
for us to forsake the word of God and serve tables. 6:3Therefore select 
from among you, brothers, seven men of good report, full of the Holy Spirit and 
of wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. 6:4But we will continue 
steadfastly in prayer and in the ministry of the word." 
6:5These words pleased the whole multitude. 
They chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, Philip, 
Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolaus, a proselyte of Antioch; 6:6whom 
they set before the apostles. When they had prayed, they laid their hands on 
them. 6:7The word of God increased and the number 
of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem exceedingly. A great company of the 
priests were obedient to the faith. 
6:8Stephen, full of faith and power, 
performed great wonders and signs among the people. 6:9But some of those 
who were of the synagogue called "The Libertines," and of the Cyrenians, of the 
Alexandrians, and of those of Cilicia and Asia arose, disputing with Stephen. 6:10They weren't able to withstand the 
wisdom and the Spirit by which he spoke. 6:11Then they secretly induced men to say, 
"We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and God." 6:12They stirred up the people, the elders, 
and the scribes, and came against him and seized him, and brought him in to the 
council, 6:13and set up false witnesses who said, 
"This man never stops speaking blasphemous words against this holy place and the 
law. 6:14For we have heard him say that this 
Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place, and will change the customs which 
Moses delivered to us." 6:15All who sat in the council, fastening 
their eyes on him, saw his face like it was the face of an angel. 
7:1The high priest said, "Are these things 
so?" 
7:2He said, "Brothers and fathers, listen. 
The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham, when he was in Mesopotamia, 
before he lived in Haran, 7:3and said to him, 'Get out of your land, 
and from your relatives, and come into a land which I will show you.' 7:4Then 
he came out of the land of the Chaldaeans, and lived in Haran. From there, when 
his father was dead, God moved him into this land, where you are now living. 7:5He 
gave him no inheritance in it, no, not so much as to set his foot on. He 
promised that he would give it to him for a possession, and to his seed after 
him, when he still had no child. 7:6God spoke in this way: that his seed 
would live as aliens in a strange land, and that they would be enslaved and 
mistreated for four hundred years. 7:7'I will judge the nation to which they 
will be in bondage,' said God, 'and after that will they come out, and serve me 
in this place.' 7:8He gave him the covenant of 
circumcision. So Abraham became the father of Isaac, and circumcised him the 
eighth day. Isaac became the father of Jacob, and Jacob became the father of the 
twelve patriarchs. 
7:9"The patriarchs, moved with jealousy 
against Joseph, sold him into Egypt. God was with him, 7:10and delivered him 
out of all his afflictions, and gave him favor and wisdom before Pharaoh, king 
of Egypt. He made him governor over Egypt and all his house. 7:11Now a famine came 
over all the land of Egypt and Canaan, and great affliction. Our fathers found 
no food. 7:12But when Jacob heard that there was 
grain in Egypt, he sent out our fathers the first time. 7:13On the second time 
Joseph was made known to his brothers, and Joseph's race was revealed to 
Pharaoh. 7:14Joseph sent, and summoned Jacob, his 
father, and all his relatives, seventy-five souls. 7:15Jacob went down 
into Egypt, and he died, himself and our fathers, 7:16and they were 
brought back to Shechem, and laid in the tomb that Abraham bought for a price in 
silver from the children of Hamor of Shechem. 
7:17"But as the time of the promise came 
close which God had sworn to Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt, 
7:18until there arose a different king, who 
didn't know Joseph. 7:19The same took advantage of our race, 
and mistreated our fathers, and forced them to throw out their babies, so that 
they wouldn't stay alive. 7:20At that time Moses was born, and was 
exceedingly handsome. He was nourished three months in his father's house. 7:21When he was thrown out, Pharaoh's 
daughter took him up, and reared him as her own son. 7:22Moses was 
instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians. He was mighty in his words and 
works. 7:23But when he was forty years old, it 
came into his heart to visit his brothers, the children of 
Israel. 7:24Seeing one of them suffer wrong, he 
defended him, and avenged him who was oppressed, striking the Egyptian. 7:25He 
supposed that his brothers understood that God, by his hand, was giving them 
deliverance; but they didn't understand. 
7:26"The day following, he appeared to them 
as they fought, and urged them to be at peace again, saying, 'Sirs, you are 
brothers. Why do you wrong one another?' 7:27But he who did his neighbor wrong 
pushed him away, saying, 'Who made you a ruler and a judge over us? 7:28Do 
you want to kill me, as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?' 7:29Moses fled at this 
saying, and became a stranger in the land of Midian, where he became the father 
of two sons. 
7:30"When forty years were fulfilled, an 
angel of the Lord appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in a flame 
of fire in a bush. 7:31When Moses saw it, he wondered at the 
sight. As he came close to see, a voice of the Lord came to him, 7:32'I 
am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of 
Jacob.' Moses trembled, and dared not look. 7:33The Lord said to 
him, 'Take your sandals off of your feet, for the place where you stand is holy 
ground. 7:34I have surely seen the affliction of my 
people that is in Egypt, and have heard their groaning. I have come down to 
deliver them. Now come, I will send you into Egypt.' 
7:35"This Moses, whom they refused, saying, 
'Who made you a ruler and a judge?'--God has sent him as both a ruler and a 
deliverer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush. 7:36This man led them out, having worked 
wonders and signs in Egypt, in the Red Sea, and in the wilderness for forty 
years. 7:37This is that Moses, who said to the 
children of Israel, 'The Lord our God will raise up a prophet for you from among 
your brothers, like me.*' 7:38This is he who was in the assembly in 
the wilderness with the angel that spoke to him on Mount Sinai, and with our 
fathers, who received living oracles to give to us, 7:39to whom our fathers 
wouldn't be obedient, but rejected him, and turned back in their hearts to 
Egypt, 7:40saying to Aaron, 'Make us gods that 
will go before us, for as for this Moses, who led us out of the land of Egypt, 
we don't know what has become of him.' 7:41They made a calf in those days, and 
brought a sacrifice to the idol, and rejoiced in the works of their hands. 7:42But God turned, and gave them up to 
serve the host of the sky, as it is written in the book of the prophets, 
 'Did you offer to me slain animals and 
sacrifices      Forty years in the wilderness, 
O house of Israel? 
 7:43You took up the tent of 
Moloch,      The star of your god Rephan, 
 The figures which you made to 
worship.      I will carry you away beyond 
Babylon.' 
7:44"Our fathers had the tent of the 
testimony in the wilderness, even as he who spoke to Moses commanded him to make 
it according to the pattern that he had seen; 7:45which also our 
fathers, in their turn, brought in with Joshua when they entered into the 
possession of the nations, whom God drove out before the face of our fathers, to 
the days of David, 7:46who found favor in the sight of God, 
and asked to find a habitation for the God of Jacob. 7:47But Solomon built 
him a house. 7:48However, the Most High doesn't dwell in 
temples made with hands, as the prophet says, 
 7:49'heaven is my 
throne,      And the earth a footstool for my 
feet. 
 What kind of house will you build me?' says the 
Lord;      'Or what is the place of my rest? 
 7:50Didn't my hand make all these things?' 
7:51"You stiff-necked and uncircumcised in 
heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit! As your fathers did, so you 
do. 7:52Which of the prophets didn't your 
fathers persecute? They killed those who foretold the coming of the Righteous 
One, of whom you have now become betrayers and murderers. 7:53You received the 
law as it was ordained by angels, and didn't keep it!" 
7:54Now when they heard these things, they 
were cut to the heart, and they gnashed at him with their teeth. 7:55But he, being full of the Holy Spirit, 
looked up steadfastly into heaven, and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing 
on the right hand of God, 7:56and said, "Behold, I see the heavens 
opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God!" 
7:57But they cried out with a loud voice, 
and stopped their ears, and rushed at him with one accord. 7:58They threw him out 
of the city, and stoned him. The witnesses placed their garments at the feet of 
a young man named Saul. 7:59They stoned Stephen as he called out, 
saying, "Lord Jesus, receive my Spirit!" 7:60He kneeled down, and cried with a loud 
voice, "Lord, don't hold this sin against them!" When he had said this, he fell 
asleep. 
8:1Saul was consenting to his death. A 
great persecution arose against the assembly which was in Jerusalem in that day. 
They were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, 
except for the apostles. 8:2Devout men buried Stephen, and lamented 
greatly over him. 8:3But Saul ravaged the assembly, entering 
into every house, and dragged both men and women off to prison. 8:4Therefore those who were scattered 
abroad went around preaching the word. 8:5Philip went down to the city of Samaria, 
and proclaimed to them the Christ. 8:6The multitudes listened with one accord 
to the things that were spoken by Philip, when they heard and saw the signs 
which he did. 8:7For unclean spirits came out of many of 
those who had them. They came out, crying with a loud voice. Many who had been 
paralyzed and lame were healed. 8:8There was great joy in that city. 
8:9But there was a certain man, Simon by 
name, who used to practice sorcery in the city, and amazed the people of 
Samaria, making himself out to be some great one, 8:10to whom they all 
listened, from the least to the greatest, saying, "This man is that great power 
of God." 8:11They listened to him, because for a 
long time he had amazed them with his sorceries. 8:12But when they 
believed Philip preaching good news concerning the Kingdom of God and the name 
of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. 8:13Simon himself also 
believed. Being baptized, he continued with Philip. Seeing signs and great 
miracles occuring, he was amazed. 
8:14Now when the apostles who were at 
Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent Peter and 
John to them, 8:15who, when they had come down, prayed 
for them, that they might receive the Holy Spirit; 8:16for as yet he had 
fallen on none of them. They had only been baptized in the name of Christ Jesus. 
8:17Then they laid their hands on them, and 
they received the Holy Spirit. 8:18Now when Simon saw that the Holy Spirit 
was given through the laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money, 
8:19saying, "Give me also this power, that 
whoever I lay my hands on may receive the Holy Spirit." 8:20But Peter said to 
him, "May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain the 
gift of God with money! 8:21You have neither part nor lot in this 
matter, for your heart isn't right before God. 8:22Repent therefore of 
this, your wickedness, and ask God if perhaps the thought of your heart may be 
forgiven you. 8:23For I see that you are in the gall of 
bitterness and in the bondage of iniquity." 
8:24Simon answered, "Pray for me to the 
Lord, that none of the things which you have spoken happen to me." 
8:25They therefore, when they had testified 
and spoken the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem, and preached the Gospel 
to many villages of the Samaritans. 8:26But an angel of the Lord spoke to 
Philip, saying, "Arise, and go toward the south to the way that goes down from 
Jerusalem to Gaza. This is a desert." 
8:27He arose and went; and behold, there 
was a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under Candace, queen of the 
Ethiopians, who was over all her treasure, who had come to Jerusalem to worship. 
8:28He was returning and sitting in his 
chariot, and was reading the prophet Isaiah. 
8:29The Spirit said to Philip, "Go near, 
and join yourself to this chariot." 
8:30Philip ran to him, and heard him 
reading Isaiah the prophet, and said, "Do you understand what you are reading?" 
8:31He said, "How can I, unless someone 
explains it to me?" He begged Philip to come up and sit with him. 8:32Now the passage of the Scripture which 
he was reading was this, 
 "He was led as a sheep to the 
slaughter.      As a lamb before his shearer 
is silent,      So he doesn't open his mouth. 
 8:33In his humiliation, his judgment was 
taken away.      Who will declare His 
generation?      For his life is taken from 
the earth." 
8:34The eunuch answered Philip, "Who is the 
prophet talking about? About himself, or about someone else?" 
8:35Philip opened his mouth, and beginning 
from this Scripture, preached to him Jesus. 8:36As they went on the 
way, they came to some water, and the eunuch said, "Behold, here is water. What 
is keeping me from being baptized?" 
8:37* 8:38He 
commanded the chariot to stand still, and they both went down into the water, 
both Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him. 
8:39When they came up out of the water, the 
Spirit of the Lord caught Philip away, and the eunuch didn't see him any more, 
for he went on his way rejoicing. 8:40But Philip was found at Azotus. Passing 
through, he preached the Gospel to all the cities, until he came to Caesarea. 
9:1But Saul, still breathing threats and 
slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest, 9:2and 
asked for letters from him to the synagogues of Damascus, that if he found any 
who were of the Way, whether men or women, he might bring them bound to 
Jerusalem. 9:3As he traveled, it happened that he got 
close to Damascus, and suddenly a light from the sky shone around him. 9:4He 
fell on the earth, and heard a voice saying to him, "Saul, 
Saul, why do you persecute me?"
9:5He said, "Who are you, Lord?" 
The Lord said, "I am Jesus, whom you are 
persecuting.* 9:6But rise up, and enter 
into the city, and you will be told what you must do."
9:7The men who traveled with him stood 
speechless, hearing the sound, but seeing no one. 9:8Saul arose from the 
ground, and when his eyes were opened, he saw no one. They led him by the hand, 
and brought him into Damascus. 9:9He was without sight for three days, and 
neither ate nor drank. 
9:10Now there was a certain disciple at 
Damascus named Ananias. The Lord said to him in a vision, "Ananias!"
He said, "Behold, it's me, Lord." 
9:11The Lord said to him, "Arise, and go to the street which is called Straight, and inquire 
in the house of Judas for one named Saul, a man of Tarsus. For behold, he is 
praying, 9:12and in a vision he 
has seen a man named Ananias coming in, and laying his hands on him, that he 
might receive his sight."
9:13But Ananias answered, "Lord, I have 
heard from many about this man, how much evil he did to your saints at 
Jerusalem. 9:14Here he has authority from the chief 
priests to bind all who call on your name." 
9:15But the Lord said to him, "Go your way, for he is my chosen vessel to bear my name before 
the nations and kings, and the children of Israel. 9:16For I will show him how many things he must suffer for my name's 
sake."
9:17Ananias departed, and entered into the 
house. Laying his hands on him, he said, "Brother Saul, the Lord, who appeared 
to you on the road by which you came, has sent me, that you may receive your 
sight, and be filled with the Holy Spirit." 9:18Immediately 
something like scales fell from his eyes, and he received his sight. He arose 
and was baptized. 9:19He took food and was strengthened. Saul 
stayed several days with the disciples who were at Damascus. 9:20Immediately in the 
synagogues he proclaimed the Christ, that he is the Son of God. 9:21All who heard him were amazed, and 
said, "Isn't this he who in Jerusalem made havoc of those who called on this 
name? And he had come here intending to bring them bound before the chief 
priests!" 
9:22But Saul increased more in strength, 
and confounded the Jews who lived at Damascus, proving that this is the Christ. 
9:23When many days were fulfilled, the Jews 
conspired together to kill him, 9:24but their plot became known to Saul. 
They watched the gates both day and night that they might kill him, 9:25but his disciples took him by night, 
and let him down through the wall, lowering him in a basket. 9:26When Saul had come 
to Jerusalem, he tried to join himself to the disciples; but they were all 
afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple. 9:27But Barnabas took 
him, and brought him to the apostles, and declared to them how he had seen the 
Lord in the way, and that he had spoken to him, and how at Damascus he had 
preached boldly in the name of Jesus. 9:28He was with them entering into Jerusalem, 
9:29preaching boldly in the name of the 
Lord. He spoke and disputed against the Grecian Jews, but they were seeking to 
kill him. 9:30When the brothers knew it, they 
brought him down to Caesarea, and sent him off to Tarsus. 9:31So the assemblies 
throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria had peace, and were built up. They 
were multiplied, walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy 
Spirit. 
9:32It happened, as Peter went throughout 
all those parts, he came down also to the saints who lived at Lydda. 9:33There he found a certain man named 
Aeneas, who had been bedridden for eight years, because he was paralyzed. 9:34Peter said to him, "Aeneas, Jesus 
Christ heals you. Get up and make your bed!" Immediately he arose. 9:35All who lived at Lydda and in Sharon 
saw him, and they turned to the Lord. 
9:36Now there was at Joppa a certain 
disciple named Tabitha, which when translated, means Dorcas. This woman was 
full of good works and acts of mercy which she did. 9:37It happened in 
those days that she fell sick, and died. When they had washed her, they laid her 
in an upper chamber. 9:38As Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples, 
hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, 
imploring him not to delay in coming to them. 9:39Peter got up and 
went with them. When he had come, they brought him into the upper chamber. All 
the widows stood by him weeping, and showing the coats and garments which Dorcas 
had made while she was with them. 9:40Peter put them all out, and kneeled 
down and prayed. Turning to the body, he said, "Tabitha, get up!" She opened her 
eyes, and when she saw Peter, she sat up. 9:41He gave her his 
hand, and raised her up. Calling the saints and widows, he presented her alive. 
9:42And it became known throughout all 
Joppa, and many believed in the Lord. 9:43It happened, that he stayed many days 
in Joppa with one Simon, a tanner. 
10:1Now there was a certain man in 
Caesarea, Cornelius by name, a centurion of what was called the Italian 
Regiment, 10:2a devout man, and one who feared God 
with all his house, who gave gifts for the needy generously to the people, and 
always prayed to God. 10:3At about the ninth hour of the 
day, he clearly saw in a vision an angel of God coming to him, and saying to 
him, "Cornelius!" 
10:4He, fastening his eyes on him, and 
being frightened, said, "What is it, Lord?" 
He said to him, "Your prayers and your gifts to the needy have gone up for a 
memorial before God. 10:5Now send men to Joppa, and get Simon, 
who is surnamed Peter. 10:6He lodges with one Simon, a tanner, 
whose house is by the seaside.*" 
10:7When the angel who spoke to him had 
departed, Cornelius called two of his household servants and a devout soldier of 
those who waited on him continually. 10:8Having explained everything to them, he 
sent them to Joppa. 10:9Now on the next day as they were on 
their journey, and got close to the city, Peter went up on the housetop to pray 
at about noon. 10:10He became hungry and desired to eat, 
but while they were preparing, he fell into a trance. 10:11He saw heaven 
opened and a certain container descending to him, like a great sheet let down by 
four corners on the earth, 10:12in which were all kinds of four-footed 
animals of the earth, wild animals, reptiles, and birds of the sky. 10:13A voice came to him, "Rise, Peter, kill and eat!"
10:14But Peter said, "Not so, Lord; for I 
have never eaten anything that is common or unclean." 
10:15A voice came to him again the second 
time, "What God has cleansed, you must not call 
unclean." 10:16This was done three times, and 
immediately the vessel was received up into heaven. 10:17Now while Peter 
was very perplexed in himself what the vision which he had seen might mean, 
behold, the men who were sent by Cornelius, having made inquiry for Simon's 
house, stood before the gate, 10:18and called and asked whether Simon, 
who was surnamed Peter, was lodging there. 10:19While Peter was 
pondering the vision, the Spirit said to him, "Behold, three men seek you. 10:20But arise, get down, and go with them, 
doubting nothing; for I have sent them." 
10:21Peter went down to the men, and said, 
"Behold, I am he whom you seek. Why have you come?" 
10:22They said, "Cornelius, a centurion, a 
righteous man and one who fears God, and well spoken of by all the nation of the 
Jews, was directed by a holy angel to invite you to his house, and to listen to 
what you say." 10:23So he called them in and lodged them. 
On the next day Peter arose and went out with them, and some of the brothers 
from Joppa accompanied him. 10:24On the next day they entered into 
Caesarea. Cornelius was waiting for them, having called together his relatives 
and his near friends. 10:25When it happened that Peter entered, 
Cornelius met him, fell down at his feet, and worshiped him. 10:26But Peter raised him up, saying, 
"Stand up! I myself am also a man." 10:27As he talked with him, he went in and 
found many gathered together. 10:28He said to them, "You yourselves know 
how it is an unlawful thing for a man who is a Jew to join himself or come to 
one of another nation, but God has shown me that I shouldn't call any man unholy 
or unclean. 10:29Therefore also I came without 
complaint when I was sent for. I ask therefore, why did you send for me?" 
10:30Cornelius said, "Four days ago, I was 
fasting until this hour, and at the ninth hour, I prayed 
in my house, and behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing, 10:31and said, 'Cornelius, your prayer is 
heard, and your gifts to the needy are remembered in the sight of God. 10:32Send therefore to Joppa, and summon 
Simon, who is surnamed Peter. He lodges in the house of Simon a tanner, by the 
seaside. When he comes, he will speak to you.' 10:33Therefore I sent 
to you at once, and it was good of you to come. Now therefore we are all here 
present in the sight of God to hear all things that have been commanded you by 
God." 
10:34Peter opened his mouth and said, 
"Truly I perceive that God doesn't show favoritism; 10:35but in every 
nation he who fears him and works righteousness is acceptable to him. 10:36The word which he sent to the children 
of Israel, preaching good news of peace by Jesus Christ--he is Lord of all--10:37that spoken word you yourselves know, 
which was proclaimed throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee, after the 
baptism which John preached; 10:38even Jesus of Nazareth, how God 
anointed him with the Holy Spirit and with power, who went about doing good and 
healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. 10:39We are witnesses of everything he did 
both in the country of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom they also killed, hanging him 
on a tree. 10:40God raised him up the third day, and 
gave him to be revealed, 10:41not to all the people, but to 
witnesses who were chosen before by God, to us, who ate and drank with him after 
he rose from the dead. 10:42He charged us to preach to the people 
and to testify that this is he who is appointed by God as the Judge of the 
living and the dead. 10:43All the prophets testify about him, 
that through his name everyone who believes in him will receive remission of 
sins." 
10:44While Peter was still speaking these 
words, the Holy Spirit fell on all those who heard the word. 10:45They of the circumcision who believed 
were amazed, as many as came with Peter, because the gift of the Holy Spirit was 
also poured out on the Gentiles. 10:46For they heard them speaking in other 
languages and magnifying God. 
Then Peter answered, 10:47"Can any man forbid the water, that 
these who have received the Holy Spirit as well as we should not be baptized?" 
10:48He commanded them to be baptized in 
the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to stay some days. 
11:1Now the apostles and the brothers who were in 
Judea heard that the Gentiles had also received the word of God. 11:2When Peter had come up to Jerusalem, 
those who were of the circumcision contended with him, 11:3saying, "You went 
in to uncircumcised men, and ate with them!" 
11:4But Peter began, and explained to them 
in order, saying, 11:5"I was in the city of Joppa praying, 
and in a trance I saw a vision: a certain container descending, like it was a 
great sheet let down from heaven by four corners. It came as far as me. 11:6When I had looked intently at it, I 
considered, and saw the four-footed animals of the earth, wild animals, creeping 
things, and birds of the sky. 11:7I also heard a voice saying to me, 
'Rise, Peter, kill and eat!' 11:8But I said, 'Not 
so, Lord, for nothing unholy or unclean has ever entered into my mouth.' 11:9But a voice answered me the second time 
out of heaven, 'What God has cleansed, don't you call 
unclean.' 11:10This was done three times, and all 
were drawn up again into heaven. 11:11Behold, immediately three men stood 
before the house where I was, having been sent from Caesarea to me. 11:12The Spirit told me to go with them, 
without discriminating. These six brothers also accompanied me, and we entered 
into the man's house. 11:13He told us how he had seen the angel 
standing in his house, and saying to him, 'Send to Joppa, and get Simon, whose 
surname is Peter, 11:14who will speak to you words by which 
you will be saved, you and all your house.' 11:15As I began to 
speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them, even as on us at the beginning. 11:16I remembered the word of the Lord, how 
he said, 'John indeed baptized in water, but you will be 
baptized in the Holy Spirit.' 11:17If then God gave to them the same gift 
as us, when we believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I, that I could 
withstand God?" 
11:18When they heard these things, they 
held their peace, and glorified God, saying, "Then God has also granted to the 
Gentiles repentance to life!" 
11:19They therefore who were scattered 
abroad by the oppression that arose about Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia, 
Cyprus, and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except to Jews only. 11:20But there were some of them, men of 
Cyprus and Cyrene, who, when they had come to Antioch, spoke to the Greeks, 
preaching the Lord Jesus. 11:21The hand of the Lord was with them, 
and a great number believed and turned to the Lord. 11:22The report 
concerning them came to the ears of the assembly which was in Jerusalem. They 
sent out Barnabas to go as far as Antioch, 11:23who, when he had 
come, and had seen the grace of God, was glad. He exhorted them all, that with 
purpose of heart they should remain near to the Lord. 11:24For he was a good 
man, and full of the Holy Spirit and of faith, and many people were added to the 
Lord. 
11:25Barnabas went out to Tarsus to look 
for Saul. 11:26When he had found him, he brought him 
to Antioch. It happened, that for a whole year they were gathered together with 
the assembly, and taught many people. The disciples were first called Christians 
in Antioch. 
11:27Now in these days, prophets came down 
from Jerusalem to Antioch. 11:28One of them named Agabus stood up, and 
indicated by the Spirit that there should be a great famine all over the world, 
which also happened in the days of Claudius. 11:29As any of the 
disciples had plenty, each determined to send relief to the brothers who lived 
in Judea; 11:30which they also did, sending it to the 
elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul. 
12:1Now about that time, Herod the king 
stretched out his hands to oppress some of the assembly. 12:2He killed James, 
the brother of John, with the sword. 12:3When he saw that it pleased the Jews, 
he proceeded to seize Peter also. This was during the days of unleavened bread. 
12:4When he had arrested him, he put him in 
prison, and delivered him to four squads of four soldiers each to guard him, 
intending to bring him out to the people after the Passover. 12:5Peter therefore was 
kept in the prison, but constant prayer was made by the assembly to God for him. 
12:6The same night when Herod was about to 
bring him out, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains. 
Guards in front of the door kept the prison. 
12:7And behold, an angel of the Lord stood 
by him, and a light shone in the cell. He struck Peter on the side, and woke him 
up, saying, "Stand up quickly!" His chains fell off from his hands. 12:8The angel said to him, "Get dressed and 
put on your sandals." He did so. He said to him, "Put on your cloak, and follow 
me." 12:9And he went out and followed him. He 
didn't know that what was being done by the angel was real, but thought he saw a 
vision. 12:10When they were past the first and the 
second guard, they came to the iron gate that leads into the city, which opened 
to them by itself. They went out, and went down one street, and immediately the 
angel departed from him. 
12:11When Peter had come to himself, he 
said, "Now I truly know that the Lord has sent out his angel and delivered me 
out of the hand of Herod, and from everything the Jewish people were expecting." 
12:12Thinking about that, he came to the 
house of Mary, the mother of John whose surname was Mark, where many were 
gathered together and were praying. 12:13When Peter knocked at the door of the 
gate, a maid named Rhoda came to answer. 12:14When she 
recognized Peter's voice, she didn't open the gate for joy, but ran in, and 
reported that Peter was standing in front of the gate. 
12:15They said to her, "You are crazy!" But 
she insisted that it was so. They said, "It is his angel." 12:16But Peter 
continued knocking. When they had opened, they saw him, and were amazed. 12:17But he, beckoning to them with his 
hand to be silent, declared to them how the Lord had brought him out of the 
prison. He said, "Tell these things to James, and to the brothers." Then he 
departed, and went to another place. 
12:18Now as soon as it was day, there was 
no small stir among the soldiers about what had become of Peter. 12:19When Herod had sought for him, and 
didn't find him, he examined the guards, and commanded that they should be put 
to death. He went down from Judea to Caesarea, and stayed there. 12:20Now Herod was very angry with the 
people of Tyre and Sidon. They came with one accord to him, and, having made 
Blastus, the king's chamberlain, their friend, they asked for peace, because 
their country depended on the king's country for food. 12:21On an appointed 
day, Herod dressed himself in royal clothing, sat on the throne, and gave a 
speech to them. 12:22The people shouted, "The voice of a 
god, and not of a man!" 12:23Immediately an angel of the Lord 
struck him, because he didn't give God the glory, and he was eaten by worms and 
died. 
12:24But the word of God grew and 
multiplied. 12:25Barnabas and Saul returned to Jerusalem, when they 
had fulfilled their service, also taking with them John whose surname was Mark. 
13:1Now in the assembly that was at Antioch 
there were some prophets and teachers: Barnabas, Simeon who was called Niger, 
Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen the foster-brother of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul. 13:2As 
they served the Lord and fasted, the Holy Spirit said, "Separate Barnabas and 
Saul for me, for the work to which I have called them." 
13:3Then, when they had fasted and prayed 
and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. 13:4So, being sent out 
by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleucia. From there they sailed to 
Cyprus. 13:5When they were at Salamis, they 
proclaimed the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. They had also John as 
their attendant. 13:6When they had gone through the island 
to Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name was 
Bar Jesus, 13:7who was with the proconsul, Sergius 
Paulus, a man of understanding. This man summoned Barnabas and Saul, and sought 
to hear the word of God. 13:8But Elymas the sorcerer (for so is his 
name by interpretation) withstood them, seeking to turn aside the proconsul from 
the faith. 13:9But Saul, who is also called Paul, 
filled with the Holy Spirit, fastened his eyes on him, 13:10and said, "Full of 
all deceit and all cunning, you son of the devil, you enemy of all 
righteousness, will you not cease to pervert the right ways of the Lord? 13:11Now, behold, the hand of the Lord is 
on you, and you will be blind, not seeing the sun for a season!" 
Immediately there fell on him a mist and darkness. He went around seeking 
someone to lead him by the hand. 13:12Then the proconsul, when he saw what 
was done, believed, being astonished at the teaching of the Lord. 
13:13Now Paul and his company set sail from 
Paphos, and came to Perga in Pamphylia. John departed from them and returned to 
Jerusalem. 13:14But they, passing on from Perga, came 
to Antioch of Pisidia. They went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and sat 
down. 13:15After the reading of the law and the 
prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent to them, saying, "Brothers, if you 
have any word of exhortation for the people, speak." 
13:16Paul stood up, and beckoning with his 
hand said, "Men of Israel, and you who fear God, listen. 13:17The God of this 
people* 
chose our fathers, and exalted the people when they stayed as aliens in the land 
of Egypt, and with an uplifted arm, he led them out of it. 13:18For a period of 
about forty years he put up with them in the wilderness. 13:19When he had 
destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, he gave them their land for an 
inheritance, for about four hundred fifty years. 13:20After these things 
he gave them judges until Samuel the prophet. 13:21Afterward they 
asked for a king, and God gave to them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe 
of Benjamin, for forty years. 13:22When he had removed him, he raised up 
David to be their king, to whom he also testified, 'I have found David the son 
of Jesse, a man after my heart, who will do all my will.' 13:23From this man's 
seed, God has brought salvation to Israel 
according to his promise, 13:24before his coming, when John had first 
preached the baptism of repentance to Israel. 13:25As John was fulfilling his course, he 
said, 'What do you suppose that I am? I am not he. But behold, one comes after 
me the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie.' 13:26Brothers, children 
of the stock of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, the word of this 
salvation is sent out to you. 13:27For those who dwell in Jerusalem, and 
their rulers, because they didn't know him, nor the voices of the prophets which 
are read every Sabbath, fulfilled them by condemning him. 13:28Though they found 
no cause for death, they still asked Pilate to have him killed. 13:29When they had fulfilled all things 
that were written about him, they took him down from the tree, and laid him in a 
tomb. 13:30But God raised him from the dead, 13:31and he was seen for many days by those 
who came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are his witnesses to the 
people. 13:32We bring you good news of the promise 
made to the fathers, 13:33that God has fulfilled the same to us, 
their children, in that he raised up Jesus. As it is also written in the second 
psalm, 
 'You are my Son.      Today I have 
become your father.' 
13:34"Concerning that he raised him up from 
the dead, now no more to return to corruption, he has spoken thus: 'I will give 
you the holy and sure blessings of David.' 13:35Therefore he says 
also in another psalm, 'You will not allow your Holy One to see decay.' 13:36For David, after he had in his own 
generation served the counsel of God, fell asleep, and was laid with his 
fathers, and saw decay. 13:37But he whom God raised up saw no 
decay. 13:38Be it known to you therefore, brothers, that through 
this man is proclaimed to you remission of sins, 13:39and by him 
everyone who believes is justified from all things, from which you could not be 
justified by the law of Moses. 13:40Beware therefore, lest that come on 
you which is spoken in the prophets: 
 13:41'Behold, you scoffers, and wonder, and 
perish;      For I work a work in your 
days,      A work which you will in no way 
believe, if one declares it to you.'" 
13:42So when the Jews went out of the 
synagogue, the Gentiles begged that these words might be preached to them the 
next Sabbath. 13:43Now when the synagogue broke up, many 
of the Jews and of the devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas; who, 
speaking to them, urged them to continue in the grace of God. 13:44The next Sabbath almost the whole city 
was gathered together to hear the word of God. 13:45But when the Jews 
saw the multitudes, they were filled with jealousy, and contradicted the things 
which were spoken by Paul, and blasphemed. 
13:46Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, 
and said, "It was necessary that God's word should be spoken to you first. Since 
indeed you thrust it from you, and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, 
behold, we turn to the Gentiles. 13:47For so has the Lord commanded us, 
saying, 
 'I have set you as a light for the 
Gentiles,      That you should bring salvation 
to the uttermost parts of the earth.'" 
13:48As the Gentiles heard this, they were 
glad, and glorified the word of God. As many as were appointed to eternal life 
believed. 13:49The Lord's word was spread abroad 
throughout all the region. 13:50But the Jews stirred up the devout and 
prominent women and the chief men of the city, and stirred up a persecution 
against Paul and Barnabas, and threw them out of their borders. 13:51But they shook off the dust of their 
feet against them, and came to Iconium. 13:52The disciples were filled with joy 
with the Holy Spirit. 
14:1It happened in Iconium that they 
entered together into the synagogue of the Jews, and so spoke that a great 
multitude both of Jews and of Greeks believed. 14:2But the disbelieving Jews 
stirred up and embittered the souls of the Gentiles against the brothers. 14:3Therefore they stayed there a long 
time, speaking boldly in the Lord, who testified to the word of his grace, 
granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands. 14:4But the multitude 
of the city was divided. Part sided with the Jews, and part with the apostles. 
14:5When some of both the Gentiles and the 
Jews, with their rulers, made a violent attempt to mistreat and stone them, 14:6they became aware of it, and fled to 
the cities of Lycaonia, Lystra, Derbe, and the surrounding region. 14:7There they preached the Gospel. 
14:8At Lystra a certain man sat, impotent 
in his feet, a cripple from his mother's womb, who never had walked. 14:9He 
was listening to Paul speaking, who, fastening eyes on him, and seeing that he 
had faith to be made whole, 14:10said with a loud voice, "Stand upright 
on your feet!" He leaped up and walked. 14:11When the multitude saw what Paul had 
done, they lifted up their voice, saying in the language of Lycaonia, "The gods 
have come down to us in the likeness of men!" 14:12They called 
Barnabas "Jupiter," and Paul "Mercury," because he was the chief speaker. 14:13The priest of Jupiter, whose temple 
was in front of their city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates, and would 
have made a sacrifice along with the multitudes. 14:14But when the 
apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard of it, they tore their clothes, and sprang 
into the multitude, crying out, 14:15"Men, why are you doing these things? 
We also are men of like passions with you, and bring you good news, that you 
should turn from these vain things to the living God, who made the sky and the 
earth and the sea, and all that is in them; 14:16who in the 
generations gone by allowed all the nations to walk in their own ways. 14:17Yet he didn't leave himself without 
witness, in that he did good and gave you rains from the sky 
and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness." 
14:18Even saying these things, they hardly 
stopped the multitudes from making a sacrifice to them. 14:19But some Jews from 
Antioch and Iconium came there, and having persuaded the multitudes, they stoned 
Paul, and dragged him out of the city, supposing that he was dead. 
14:20But as the disciples stood around him, 
he rose up, and entered into the city. On the next day he went out with Barnabas 
to Derbe. 14:21When they had preached the Gospel to 
that city, and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra, Iconium, and 
Antioch, 14:22confirming the souls of the disciples, 
exhorting them to continue in the faith, and that through many afflictions we 
must enter into the Kingdom of God. 14:23When they had appointed elders for 
them in every assembly, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the 
Lord, on whom they had believed. 
14:24They passed through Pisidia, and came 
to Pamphylia. 14:25When they had spoken the word in 
Perga, they went down to Attalia. 14:26From there they sailed to Antioch, 
from where they had been committed to the grace of God for the work which they 
had fulfilled. 14:27When they had arrived, and had 
gathered the assembly together, they reported all the things that God had done 
with them, and that he had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles. 14:28They stayed there with the disciples 
for a long time. 
15:1Some men came down from Judea and 
taught the brothers, "Unless you are circumcised after the custom of Moses, you 
can't be saved." 15:2Therefore when Paul and Barnabas had no 
small discord and discussion with them, they appointed Paul and Barnabas, and 
some others of them, to go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and elders about this 
question. 15:3They, being sent on their way by the 
assembly, passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria, declaring the conversion of 
the Gentiles. They caused great joy to all the brothers. 15:4When they had come to Jerusalem, they 
were received by the assembly and the apostles and the elders, and they reported 
all things that God had done with them. 
15:5But some of the sect of the Pharisees 
who believed rose up, saying, "It is necessary to circumcise them, and to charge 
them to keep the law of Moses." 
15:6The apostles and the elders were 
gathered together to see about this matter. 15:7When there had been 
much discussion, Peter rose up and said to them, "Brothers, you know that a good 
while ago God made choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear 
the word of the Gospel, and believe. 15:8God, who knows the heart, testified 
about them, giving them the Holy Spirit, just like he did to us. 15:9He 
made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith. 15:10Now therefore why do you tempt God, 
that you should put a yoke on the neck of the disciples which neither our 
fathers nor we were able to bear? 15:11But we believe that we are saved 
through the grace of the Lord Jesus,* 
just as they are." 
15:12All the multitude kept silence, and 
they listened to Barnabas and Paul reporting what signs and wonders God had done 
among the Gentiles through them. 15:13After they were silent, James 
answered, "Brothers, listen to me. 15:14Simeon has reported how God first 
visited the Gentiles, to take out of them a people for his name. 15:15This agrees with the words of the 
prophets. As it is written, 
 15:16'After these things I will 
return.      I will again build the tent of 
David, which has fallen.      I will again 
build its ruins. 
 I will set it up,      15:17That the rest of men may seek after 
the Lord;      All the Gentiles who are called 
by my name, 
 Says the Lord, who does all these 
things.      15:18All his works are 
known to God from eternity.' 
15:19"Therefore my judgment is that we 
don't trouble those from among the Gentiles who turn to God, 15:20but that we write to them that they 
abstain from the pollution of idols, from sexual immorality, from what is 
strangled, and from blood. 15:21For Moses from generations of old has 
in every city those who preach him, being read in the synagogues every Sabbath." 

15:22Then it seemed good to the apostles 
and the elders, with the whole assembly, to choose men out of their company, and 
send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas: Judas called Barsabbas, and Silas, 
chief men among the brothers. 15:23They wrote these things by their hand: 

"The apostles, the elders, and the brothers, to the brothers who are of the 
Gentiles in Antioch, Syria, and Cilicia: greetings. 15:24Because we have 
heard that some who went out from us have troubled you with words, unsettling 
your souls, saying, 'You must be circumcised and keep the law,' to whom we gave 
no commandment; 15:25it seemed good to us, having come to 
one accord, to choose out men and send them to you with our beloved Barnabas and 
Paul, 15:26men who have risked their lives for 
the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. 15:27We have sent therefore Judas and 
Silas, who themselves will also tell you the same things by word of mouth. 15:28For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit, 
and to us, to lay no greater burden on you than these necessary things: 15:29that you abstain from things 
sacrificed to idols, from blood, from things strangled, and from sexual 
immorality, from which if you keep yourselves, it will be well with you. 
Farewell." 
15:30So, when they were sent off, they came 
to Antioch. Having gathered the multitude together, they delivered the letter. 
15:31When they had read it, they rejoiced 
over the encouragement. 15:32Judas and Silas, also being prophets 
themselves, encouraged the brothers with many words, and strengthened them. 15:33After they had spent some time there, 
they were sent back with greetings from the brothers to the apostles. 15:34* 15:35But Paul and Barnabas stayed in 
Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also. 
15:36After some days Paul said to Barnabas, 
"Let's return now and visit our brothers in every city in which we proclaimed 
the word of the Lord, to see how they are doing." 15:37Barnabas planned 
to take John, who was called Mark, with them also. 15:38But Paul didn't 
think that it was a good idea to take with them someone who had withdrawn from 
them in Pamphylia, and didn't go with them to do the work. 15:39Then the 
contention grew so sharp that they separated from each other. Barnabas took Mark 
with him, and sailed away to Cyprus, 15:40but Paul chose Silas, and went out, 
being commended by the brothers to the grace of God. 15:41He went through 
Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the assemblies. 
16:1He came to Derbe and Lystra: and 
behold, a certain disciple was there, named Timothy, the son of a Jewess who 
believed; but his father was a Greek. 16:2The brothers who were at Lystra and 
Iconium gave a good testimony about him. 16:3Paul wanted to have him go out with 
him, and he took and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those 
parts; for they all knew that his father was a Greek. 16:4As they went on 
their way through the cities, they delivered the decrees to them to keep which 
had been ordained by the apostles and elders who were at Jerusalem. 16:5So 
the assemblies were strengthened in the faith, and increased in number daily. 
16:6When they had gone through the region 
of Phrygia and Galatia, they were forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word 
in Asia. 16:7When they had come opposite Mysia, they 
tried to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit didn't allow them. 16:8Passing by Mysia, 
they came down to Troas. 16:9A vision appeared to Paul in the night. 
There was a man of Macedonia standing, begging him, and saying, "Come over into 
Macedonia and help us." 16:10When he had seen the vision, 
immediately we sought to go out to Macedonia, concluding that the Lord had 
called us to preach the Gospel to them. 16:11Setting sail therefore from Troas, we 
made a straight course to Samothrace, and the day following to Neapolis; 16:12and from there to Philippi, which is a 
city of Macedonia, the foremost of the district, a Roman colony. We were staying 
some days in this city. 
16:13On the Sabbath day we went forth 
outside of the city by a riverside, where we supposed there was a place of 
prayer, and we sat down, and spoke to the women who had come together. 16:14A certain woman named Lydia, a seller 
of purple, of the city of Thyatira, one who worshiped God, heard us; whose heart 
the Lord opened to listen to the things which were spoken by Paul. 16:15When she and her household were 
baptized, she begged us, saying, "If you have judged me to be faithful to the 
Lord, come into my house, and stay." So she persuaded us. 
16:16It happened, as we were going to 
prayer, that a certain girl having a spirit of divination met us, who brought 
her masters much gain by fortune telling. 16:17Following Paul and 
us, she cried out, "These men are servants of the Most High God, who proclaim to 
us the way of salvation!" 16:18She was doing this for many days. 
But Paul, becoming greatly annoyed, turned and said to the spirit, "I charge 
you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her!" It came out that very hour. 
16:19But when her masters saw that the hope 
of their gain was gone, they seized Paul and Silas, and dragged them into the 
marketplace before the rulers. 16:20When they had brought them to the 
magistrates, they said, "These men, being Jews, are agitating our city, 16:21and set forth customs which it is not 
lawful for us to accept or to observe, being Romans." 
16:22The multitude rose up together against 
them, and the magistrates tore their clothes off of them, and commanded them to 
be beaten with rods. 16:23When they had laid many stripes on 
them, they threw them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely, 16:24who, having received such a charge, 
threw them into the inner prison, and secured their feet in the stocks. 
16:25But about midnight Paul and Silas were 
praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. 16:26Suddenly there was a great earthquake, 
so that the foundations of the prison were shaken; and immediately all the doors 
were opened, and everyone's bonds were loosened. 16:27The jailer, being 
roused out of sleep and seeing the prison doors open, drew his sword and was 
about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped. 16:28But Paul cried with a loud voice, 
saying, "Don't harm yourself, for we are all here!" 
16:29He called for lights and sprang in, 
and, fell down trembling before Paul and Silas, 16:30and brought them 
out and said, "Sirs, what must I do to be saved?" 
16:31They said, "Believe in the Lord Jesus 
Christ, and you will be saved, you and your household." 16:32They spoke the 
word of the Lord to him, and to all who were in his house. 
16:33He took them the same hour of the 
night, and washed their stripes, and was immediately baptized, he and all his 
household. 16:34He brought them up into his house, and 
set food before them, and rejoiced greatly, with all his household, having 
believed in God. 
16:35But when it was day, the magistrates 
sent the sergeants, saying, "Let those men go." 
16:36The jailer reported these words to 
Paul, saying, "The magistrates have sent to let you go; now therefore come out, 
and go in peace." 
16:37But Paul said to them, "They have 
beaten us publicly, without a trial, men who are Romans, and have cast us into 
prison! Do they now release us secretly? No, most assuredly, but let them come 
themselves and bring us out!" 
16:38The sergeants reported these words to 
the magistrates, and they were afraid when they heard that they were Romans, 16:39and they came and begged them. When 
they had brought them out, they asked them to depart from the city. 16:40They went out of the prison, and 
entered into Lydia's house. When they had seen the brothers, they encouraged 
them, and departed. 
17:1Now when they had passed through 
Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue 
of the Jews. 17:2Paul, as was his custom, went in to 
them, and for three Sabbath days reasoned with them from the Scriptures, 17:3explaining and demonstrating that the 
Christ had to suffer and rise again from the dead, and saying, "This Jesus, whom 
I proclaim to you, is the Christ." 
17:4Some of them were persuaded, and joined 
Paul and Silas, of the devout Greeks a great multitude, and not a few of the 
chief women. 17:5But the unpersuaded Jews 
took along some wicked men from the marketplace, and gathering a crowd, set 
the city in an uproar. Assaulting the house of Jason, they sought to bring them 
out to the people. 17:6When they didn't find them, they 
dragged Jason and certain brothers before the 
rulers of the city, crying, "These who have turned the world upside down have 
come here also, 17:7whom Jason has received. These all act 
contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus!" 17:8The multitude and the rulers of the 
city were troubled when they heard these things. 17:9When they had taken 
security from Jason and the rest, they let them go. 17:10The brothers 
immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Beroea. When they arrived, they 
went into the Jewish synagogue. 
17:11Now these were more noble than those 
in Thessalonica, in that they received the word with all readiness of the mind, 
examining the Scriptures daily to see whether these things were so. 17:12Many of them therefore believed; also 
of the prominent Greek women, and not a few men. 17:13But when the Jews 
of Thessalonica had knowledge that the word of God was proclaimed by Paul at 
Beroea also, they came there likewise, agitating the multitudes. 17:14Then the brothers immediately sent out 
Paul to go as far as to the sea, and Silas and Timothy still stayed there. 17:15But those who escorted Paul brought 
him as far as Athens. Receiving a commandment to Silas and Timothy that they 
should come to him very quickly, they departed. 
17:16Now while Paul waited for them at 
Athens, his spirit was provoked within him as he saw the city full of idols. 17:17So he reasoned in the synagogue with 
the Jews and the devout persons, and in the marketplace every day with those who 
met him. 17:18Some of the Epicurean and Stoic 
philosophers also 
were conversing with him. Some said, "What does this babbler want to say?" 
Others said, "He seems to be advocating foreign deities," because he preached 
Jesus and the resurrection. 
17:19They took hold of him, and brought him 
to the Areopagus, saying, "May we know what this new teaching is, which is 
spoken by you? 17:20For you bring certain strange things 
to our ears. We want to know therefore what these things mean." 17:21Now all the Athenians and the 
strangers living there spent their time in nothing else, but either to tell or 
to hear some new thing. 
17:22Paul stood in the middle of the 
Areopagus, and said, "You men of Athens, I perceive that you are very religious 
in all things. 17:23For as I passed along, and observed 
the objects of your worship, I found also an altar with this inscription: 'TO AN 
UNKNOWN GOD.' What therefore you worship in ignorance, this I announce to you. 
17:24The God who made the world and all 
things in it, he, being Lord of heaven and earth, doesn't dwell in temples made 
with hands, 17:25neither is he served by men's hands, 
as though he needed anything, seeing he himself gives to all life and breath, 
and all things. 17:26He made from one blood every nation of 
men to dwell on all the surface of the earth, having determined appointed 
seasons, and the boundaries of their dwellings, 17:27that they should 
seek the Lord, if perhaps they might reach out for him and find him, though he 
is not far from each one of us. 17:28'For in him we live, and move, and 
have our being.' As some of your own poets have said, 'For we are also his 
offspring.' 17:29Being then the offspring of God, we 
ought not to think that the Divine Nature is like gold, or silver, or stone, 
engraved by art and design of man. 17:30The times of ignorance therefore God 
overlooked. But now he commands that all people everywhere should repent, 17:31because he has appointed a day in 
which he will judge the world in righteousness by the man whom he has ordained; 
of which he has given assurance to all men, in that he has raised him from the 
dead." 
17:32Now when they heard of the 
resurrection of the dead, some mocked; but others said, "We want to hear you 
again concerning this." 
17:33Thus Paul went out from among them. 17:34But certain men joined with him, and 
believed, among whom also was Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named 
Damaris, and others with them. 
18:1After these things Paul departed from 
Athens, and came to Corinth. 18:2He found a certain Jew named Aquila, a 
man of Pontus by race, who had recently come from Italy, with his wife 
Priscilla, because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to depart from Rome. He 
came to them, 18:3and because he practiced the same 
trade, he lived with them and worked, for by trade they were tent makers. 18:4He 
reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, and persuaded Jews and Greeks. 18:5But when Silas and Timothy came down 
from Macedonia, Paul was compelled by the Spirit, testifying to the Jews that 
Jesus was the Christ. 18:6When they opposed him and blasphemed, 
he shook out his clothing and said to them, "Your blood be on your own heads! I 
am clean. From now on, I will go to the Gentiles!" 
18:7He departed there, and went into the 
house of a certain man named Justus, one who worshiped God, whose house was next 
door to the synagogue. 18:8Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, 
believed in the Lord with all his house. Many of the Corinthians, when they 
heard, believed and were baptized. 18:9The Lord said to Paul in the night by a 
vision, "Don't be afraid, but speak and don't be silent; 
18:10for I am with you, 
and no one will attack you to harm you, for I have many people in this 
city."
18:11He lived there a year and six months, 
teaching the word of God among them. 18:12But when Gallio was proconsul of 
Achaia, the Jews with one accord rose up against Paul and brought him before the 
judgment seat, 18:13saying, "This man persuades men to 
worship God contrary to the law." 
18:14But when Paul was about to open his 
mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, "If indeed it were a matter of wrong or of 
wicked crime, you Jews, it would be reasonable that I should bear with you; 18:15but if they are questions about words 
and names and your own law, look to it yourselves. For I don't want to be a 
judge of these matters." 18:16He drove them from the judgment seat. 
18:17Then all the Greeks laid hold on 
Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat. 
Gallio didn't care about any of these things. 
18:18Paul, having stayed after this many 
more days, took his leave of the brothers, and sailed 
from there for Syria, together with Priscilla and Aquila. He shaved his head in 
Cenchreae, for he had a vow. 18:19He came to Ephesus, and he left them 
there; but he himself entered into the synagogue, and reasoned with the Jews. 18:20When they asked him to stay with them 
a longer time, he declined; 18:21but taking his leave of them, and 
saying, "I must by all means keep this coming feast in Jerusalem, but I will 
return again to you if God wills," he set sail from Ephesus. 
18:22When he had landed at Caesarea, he 
went up and greeted the assembly, and went down to Antioch. 18:23Having spent some 
time there, he departed, and went through the region of Galatia, and Phrygia, in 
order, establishing all the disciples. 18:24Now a certain Jew named Apollos, an 
Alexandrian by race, an eloquent man, came to Ephesus. He was mighty in the 
Scriptures. 18:25This man had been instructed in the 
way of the Lord; and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately the 
things concerning Jesus, although he knew only the baptism of John. 18:26He began to speak boldly in the 
synagogue. But when Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him aside, and 
explained to him the way of God more accurately. 
18:27When he had determined to pass over 
into Achaia, the brothers encouraged him, and wrote to the disciples to receive 
him. When he had come, he greatly helped those who had believed through grace; 
18:28for he powerfully refuted the Jews, 
publicly showing by the Scriptures that Jesus was the Christ. 
19:1It happened that, while Apollos was at 
Corinth, Paul, having passed through the upper country, came to Ephesus, and 
found certain disciples. 19:2He said to them, "Did you receive the 
Holy Spirit when you believed?" 
They said to him, "No, we haven't even heard that there is a Holy Spirit." 
19:3He said, "Into what then were you 
baptized?" 
They said, "Into John's baptism." 
19:4Paul said, "John indeed baptized with 
the baptism of repentance, saying to the people that they should believe in the 
one who would come after him, that is, in Jesus." 
19:5When they heard this, they were 
baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. 19:6When Paul had laid his hands on them, 
the Holy Spirit came on them, and they spoke with other languages and 
prophesied. 19:7They were about twelve men in all. 19:8He 
entered into the synagogue, and spoke boldly for a period of three months, 
reasoning and persuading about the things concerning the Kingdom of God. 
19:9But when some were hardened and 
disobedient, speaking evil of the Way before the multitude, he departed from 
them, and separated the disciples, reasoning daily in the school of Tyrannus. 19:10This continued for two years, so that 
all those who lived in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and 
Greeks. 
19:11God worked special miracles by the 
hands of Paul, 19:12so that even handkerchiefs or aprons 
were carried away from his body to the sick, and the evil spirits went out. 19:13But some of the itinerant Jews, 
exorcists, took on themselves to name over those who had the evil spirits the 
name of the Lord Jesus, saying, "We adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preaches." 19:14There were seven sons of one Sceva, a 
Jewish chief priest, who did this. 
19:15The evil spirit answered, "Jesus I 
know, and Paul I know, but who are you?" 19:16The man in whom 
the evil spirit was leaped on them, and overpowered them, and prevailed against 
them, so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded. 19:17This became known to all, both Jews 
and Greeks, who lived at Ephesus. Fear fell on them all, and the name of the 
Lord Jesus was magnified. 19:18Many also of those who had believed 
came, confessing, and declaring their deeds. 19:19Many of those who 
practiced magical arts brought their books together and burned them in the sight 
of all. They counted the price of them, and found it to be fifty thousand pieces of 
silver. 19:20So the word of the Lord was growing 
and becoming mighty. 
19:21Now after these things had ended, Paul 
determined in the spirit, when he had passed through Macedonia and Achaia, to go 
to Jerusalem, saying, "After I have been there, I must also see Rome." 
19:22Having sent into Macedonia two of 
those who ministered to him, Timothy and Erastus, he himself stayed in Asia for 
a while. 19:23About that time there arose no small 
stir concerning the Way. 19:24For a certain man named Demetrius, a 
silversmith, who made silver shrines of Artemis, brought no little business to 
the craftsmen, 19:25whom he gathered together, with the 
workmen of like occupation, and said, "Sirs, you know that by this business we 
have our wealth. 19:26You see and hear, that not at Ephesus 
alone, but almost throughout all Asia, this Paul has persuaded and turned away 
many people, saying that they are no gods, that are made with hands. 19:27Not only is there danger that this our 
trade come into disrepute, but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis 
will be counted as nothing, and her majesty destroyed, whom all Asia and the 
world worships." 
19:28When they heard this they were filled 
with anger, and cried out, saying, "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!" 19:29The whole city was filled with 
confusion, and they rushed with one accord into the theater, having seized Gaius 
and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia, Paul's companions in travel. 19:30When Paul wanted to enter in to the 
people, the disciples didn't allow him. 19:31Certain also of the Asiarchs, being 
his friends, sent to him and begged him not to venture into the theater. 19:32Some therefore cried one thing, and 
some another, for the assembly was in confusion. Most of them didn't know why 
they had come together. 19:33They brought Alexander out of the 
multitude, the Jews putting him forward. Alexander beckoned with his hand, and 
would have made a defense to the people. 19:34But when they 
perceived that he was a Jew, all with one voice for a time of about two hours 
cried out, "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!" 
19:35When the town clerk had quieted the 
multitude, he said, "You men of Ephesus, what man is there who doesn't know that 
the city of the Ephesians is temple-keeper of the great goddess Artemis, and of 
the image which fell down from Zeus? 19:36Seeing then that these things can't be 
denied, you ought to be quiet, and to do nothing rash. 19:37For you have 
brought these men here, who are neither robbers of temples nor blasphemers of 
your goddess. 19:38If therefore Demetrius and the 
craftsmen who are with him have a matter against anyone, the courts are open, 
and there are proconsuls. Let them press charges against one another. 19:39But if you seek anything about other 
matters, it will be settled in the regular assembly. 19:40For indeed we are 
in danger of being accused concerning this day's riot, there being no cause. 
Concerning it, we wouldn't be able to give an account of this commotion." 19:41When he had thus spoken, he dismissed 
the assembly. 
20:1After the uproar had ceased, Paul sent 
for the disciples, took leave of them, and departed to go into Macedonia. 20:2When he had gone through those parts, 
and had encouraged them with many words, he came into Greece. 20:3When he had spent three months there, 
and a plot was made against him by Jews as he was about to set sail for Syria, 
he determined to return through Macedonia. 20:4These accompanied 
him as far as Asia: Sopater of Beroea; Aristarchus and Secundus of the 
Thessalonians; Gaius of Derbe; Timothy; and Tychicus and Trophimus of Asia. 20:5But these had gone ahead, and were 
waiting for us at Troas. 20:6We sailed away from Philippi after the 
days of Unleavened Bread, and came to them at Troas in five days, where we 
stayed seven days. 
20:7On the first day of the week, when the 
disciples were gathered together to break bread, Paul talked with them, 
intending to depart on the next day, and continued his speech until midnight. 20:8There were many lights in the upper 
chamber where we were 
gathered together. 20:9A certain young man named Eutychus sat 
in the window, weighed down with deep sleep. As Paul spoke still longer, being 
weighed down by his sleep, he fell down from the third story, and was taken up 
dead. 20:10Paul went down, and fell upon him, and 
embracing him said, "Don't be troubled, for his life is in him." 
20:11When he had gone up, and had broken 
bread, and eaten, and had talked with them a long while, even until break of 
day, he departed. 20:12They brought the boy in alive, and 
were greatly comforted. 
20:13But we who went ahead to the ship set 
sail for Assos, intending to take Paul aboard there, for he had so arranged, 
intending himself to go by land. 20:14When he met us at Assos, we took him 
aboard, and came to Mitylene. 20:15Sailing from there, we came the 
following day opposite Chios. The next day we touched at Samos and stayed at 
Trogyllium, and the day after we came to Miletus. 20:16For Paul had 
determined to sail past Ephesus, that he might not have to spend time in Asia; 
for he was hastening, if it were possible for him, to be in Jerusalem on the day 
of Pentecost. 
20:17From Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and 
called to himself the elders of the assembly. 20:18When they had come 
to him, he said to them, "You yourselves know, from the first day that I set 
foot in Asia, how I was with you all the time, 20:19serving the Lord 
with all humility, with many tears, and with trials which happened to me by the 
plots of the Jews; 20:20how I didn't shrink from declaring to 
you anything that was profitable, teaching you publicly and from house to house, 
20:21testifying both to Jews and to Greeks 
repentance toward God, and faith toward our Lord Jesus.* 20:22Now, behold, I go bound by the Spirit 
to Jerusalem, not knowing what will happen to me there; 20:23except that the 
Holy Spirit testifies in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions wait for 
me. 20:24But these things don't count; nor do I 
hold my life dear to myself, so that I may finish my race with joy, and the 
ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus, to fully testify to the Gospel of 
the grace of God. 
20:25Now, behold, I know that you all, 
among whom I went about preaching the Kingdom of God, will see my face no more. 
20:26Therefore I testify to you this day 
that I am clean from the blood of all men, 20:27for I didn't 
shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God. 20:28Take heed, 
therefore, to yourselves, and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit has 
made you overseers, to shepherd the assembly of the Lord and God which 
he purchased with his own blood. 20:29For I know that after my departure, 
vicious wolves will enter in among you, not sparing the flock. 20:30Men will arise from among your own 
selves, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after them. 20:31Therefore watch, remembering that for 
a period of three years I didn't cease to admonish everyone night and day with 
tears. 20:32Now, brothers, I entrust you 
to God, and to the word of his grace, which is able to build up, and to give you 
the inheritance among all those who are sanctified. 20:33I coveted no one's 
silver, or gold, or clothing. 20:34You yourselves know that these hands 
ministered to my necessities, and to those who were with me. 20:35In all things I gave you an example, 
that so laboring you ought to help the weak, and to remember the words of the 
Lord Jesus, that he himself said, 'It is more blessed to 
give than to receive.'" 
20:36When he had spoken these things, he 
knelt down and prayed with them all. 20:37They all wept a lot, and fell on 
Paul's neck and kissed him, 20:38sorrowing most of all because of the 
word which he had spoken, that they should see his face no more. And they 
accompanied him to the ship. 
21:1When it happened that we had parted 
from them and had set sail, we came with a straight course to Cos, and the next 
day to Rhodes, and from there to Patara. 21:2Having found a ship crossing over to 
Phoenicia, we went aboard, and set sail. 21:3When we had come in sight of Cyprus, 
leaving it on the left hand, we sailed to Syria, and landed at Tyre, for there 
the ship was to unload her cargo. 21:4Having found disciples, we stayed there 
seven days. These said to Paul through the Spirit, that he should not go up to 
Jerusalem. 21:5When it happened that we had 
accomplished the days, we departed and went on our journey. They all, with wives 
and children, brought us on our way until we were out of the city. Kneeling down 
on the beach, we prayed. 21:6After saying goodbye to each other, we 
went on board the ship, and they returned home again. 
21:7When we had finished the voyage from 
Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais. We greeted the brothers, and stayed with them one 
day. 21:8On the next day, we, who were Paul's 
companions, departed, and came to Caesarea. 
We entered into the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, 
and stayed with him. 21:9Now this man had four virgin daughters 
who prophesied. 21:10As we stayed there some days, a 
certain prophet named Agabus came down from Judea. 21:11Coming to us, and 
taking Paul's belt, he bound his own feet and hands, and said, "Thus says the 
Holy Spirit: 'So will the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man who owns this belt, and 
will deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.'" 
21:12When we heard these things, both we 
and they of that place begged him not to go up to Jerusalem. 21:13Then Paul answered, "What are you 
doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but 
also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus." 
21:14When he would not be persuaded, we 
ceased, saying, "The Lord's will be done." 
21:15After these days we took up our 
baggage and went up to Jerusalem. 21:16Some of the disciples from Caesarea 
also went with us, bringing one Mnason of Cyprus, an early disciple, with whom 
we would stay. 
21:17When we had come to Jerusalem, the 
brothers received us gladly. 21:18The day following, Paul went in with 
us to James; and all the elders were present. 21:19When he had 
greeted them, he reported one by one the things which God had worked among the 
Gentiles through his ministry. 21:20They, when they heard it, glorified 
God. They said to him, "You see, brother, how many thousands there are among the 
Jews of those who have believed, and they are all zealous for the law. 21:21They have been informed about you, 
that you teach all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, telling 
them not to circumcise their children neither to walk after the customs. 21:22What then? The assembly must certainly 
meet, for they will hear that you have come. 21:23Therefore do what 
we tell you. We have four men who have taken a vow. 21:24Take them, and 
purify yourself with them, and pay their expenses for them, that they may shave 
their heads. Then all will know that there is no truth in the things that they 
have been informed about you, but that you yourself also walk keeping the law. 
21:25But concerning the Gentiles who 
believe, we have written our decision that they should observe no such thing, 
except that they should keep themselves from food offered to idols, from blood, 
from strangled things, and from sexual immorality." 
21:26Then Paul took the men, and the next 
day, purified himself and went with them into the temple, declaring the 
fulfillment of the days of purification, until the offering was offered for 
every one of them. 21:27When the seven days were almost 
completed, the Jews from Asia, when they saw him in the temple, stirred up all 
the multitude and laid hands on him, 21:28crying out, "Men of Israel, help! This 
is the man who teaches all men everywhere against the people, and the law, and 
this place. Moreover, he also brought Greeks into the temple, and has defiled 
this holy place!" 21:29For they had seen Trophimus, the 
Ephesian, with him in the city, and they supposed that Paul had brought him into 
the temple. 
21:30All the city was moved, and the people 
ran together. They seized Paul and dragged him out of the temple. Immediately 
the doors were shut. 21:31As they were trying to kill him, news 
came up to the commanding officer of the regiment that all Jerusalem was in an 
uproar. 21:32Immediately he took soldiers and 
centurions, and ran down to them. They, when they saw the chief captain and the 
soldiers, stopped beating Paul. 21:33Then the commanding officer came near, 
arrested him, commanded him to be bound with two chains, and inquired who he was 
and what he had done. 21:34Some shouted one thing, and some 
another, among the crowd. When he couldn't find out the truth because of the 
noise, he commanded him to be brought into the barracks. 
21:35When he came to the stairs, it 
happened that he was carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the 
crowd; 21:36for the multitude of the people 
followed after, crying out, "Away with him!" 21:37As Paul was about 
to be brought into the barracks, he asked the commanding officer, "May I speak 
to you?" 
He said, "Do you know Greek? 21:38Aren't you then the Egyptian, who 
before these days stirred up to sedition and led out into the wilderness the 
four thousand men of the Assassins?" 
21:39But Paul said, "I am a Jew, from 
Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no insignificant city. I beg you, allow me to 
speak to the people." 
21:40When he had given him permission, 
Paul, standing on the stairs, beckoned with his hand to the people. When there 
was a great silence, he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, saying, 
22:1"Brothers and fathers, listen to the 
defense which I now make to you." 
22:2When they heard that he spoke to them 
in the Hebrew language, they were even more quiet. He said, 22:3"I am indeed a Jew, 
born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, 
instructed according to the strict manner of the law of our fathers, being 
zealous for God, even as you all are this day. 22:4I persecuted this 
Way to the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women. 22:5As 
also the high priest and all the council of the elders testify, from whom also I 
received letters to the brothers, and traveled to Damascus to bring them also 
who were there to Jerusalem in bonds to be punished. 22:6It happened that, 
as I made my journey, and came close to Damascus, about noon, suddenly there 
shone from the sky a great light around me. 22:7I fell to the 
ground, and heard a voice saying to me, 'Saul, Saul, why are 
you persecuting me?' 22:8I answered, 'Who are you, Lord?' He 
said to me, 'I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you 
persecute.'
22:9"Those who were with me indeed saw the 
light and were afraid, but they didn't understand the voice of him who spoke to 
me. 22:10I said, 'What shall I do, Lord?' The 
Lord said to me, 'Arise, and go into Damascus. There you 
will be told about all things which are appointed for you to do.' 22:11When I couldn't see for the glory of 
that light, being led by the hand of those who were with me, I came into 
Damascus. 22:12One Ananias, a devout man according to 
the law, well reported of by all the Jews who lived in Damascus, 22:13came to me, and standing by me said to 
me, 'Brother Saul, receive your sight!' In that very hour I looked up at him. 22:14He said, 'The God of our fathers has 
appointed you to know his will, and to see the Righteous One, and to hear a 
voice from his mouth. 22:15For you will be a witness for him to 
all men of what you have seen and heard. 22:16Now why do you 
wait? Arise, be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on the name of the 
Lord.' 
22:17"It happened that, when I had returned 
to Jerusalem, and while I prayed in the temple, I fell into a trance, 22:18and saw him saying to me, 'Hurry and get out of Jerusalem quickly, because they will not 
receive testimony concerning me from you.' 22:19I said, 'Lord, 
they themselves know that I imprisoned and beat in every synagogue those who 
believed in you. 22:20When the blood of Stephen, your 
witness, was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting to his death, and 
guarding the cloaks of those who killed him.' 
22:21"He said to me, 'Depart, for I will send you out far from here to the 
Gentiles.'" 
22:22They listened to him until he said 
that; then they lifted up their voice, and said, "Rid the earth of this fellow, 
for he isn't fit to live!" 
22:23As they cried out, and threw off their 
cloaks, and threw dust into the air, 22:24the commanding officer commanded him 
to be brought into the barracks, ordering him to be examined by scourging, that 
he might know for what crime they shouted against him like that. 22:25When they had tied him up with thongs, 
Paul asked the centurion who stood by, "Is it lawful for you to scourge a man 
who is a Roman, and not found guilty?" 
22:26When the centurion heard it, he went 
to the commanding officer and told him, "Watch what you are about to do, for 
this man is a Roman!" 
22:27The commanding officer came and asked 
him, "Tell me, are you a Roman?" 
He said, "Yes." 
22:28The commanding officer answered, "I 
bought my citizenship for a great price." 
Paul said, "But I was born a Roman." 
22:29Immediately those who were about to 
examine him departed from him, and the commanding officer also was afraid when 
he realized that he was a Roman, because he had bound him. 22:30But on the next 
day, desiring to know the truth about why he was accused by the Jews, he freed 
him from the bonds, and commanded the chief priests and all the council to come 
together, and brought Paul down and set him before them. 
23:1Paul, looking steadfastly at the 
council, said, "Brothers, I have lived before God in all good conscience until 
this day." 
23:2The high priest, Ananias, commanded 
those who stood by him to strike him on the mouth. 
23:3Then Paul said to him, "God will strike 
you, you whitewashed wall! Do you sit to judge me according to the law, and 
command me to be struck contrary to the law?" 
23:4Those who stood by said, "Do you malign 
God's high priest?" 
23:5Paul said, "I didn't know, brothers, 
that he was high priest. For it is written, 'You shall not speak evil of a ruler 
of your people.'" 23:6But when Paul perceived that the one 
part were Sadducees and the other Pharisees, he cried out in the council, "Men 
and brothers, I am a Pharisee, a son of Pharisees. Concerning the hope and 
resurrection of the dead I am being judged!" 
23:7When he had said this, an argument 
arose between the Pharisees and Sadducees, and the assembly was divided. 23:8For the Sadducees say that there is no 
resurrection, nor angel, nor spirit; but the Pharisees confess all of these. 23:9A 
great clamor arose, and some of the scribes of the Pharisees part stood up, and 
contended, saying, "We find no evil in this man. But if a spirit or angel has 
spoken to him, let's not fight against God!" 
23:10When a great argument arose, the 
commanding officer, fearing that Paul would be torn in pieces by them, commanded 
the soldiers to go down and take him by force from among them, and bring him 
into the barracks. 
23:11The following night, the Lord stood by 
him, and said, "Cheer up, Paul, for as you have testified 
about me at Jerusalem, so you must testify also at Rome."
23:12When it was day, some of the Jews 
banded together, and bound themselves under a curse, saying that they would 
neither eat nor drink until they had killed Paul. 23:13There were more 
than forty people who had made this conspiracy. 23:14They came to the 
chief priests and the elders, and said, "We have bound ourselves under a great 
curse, to taste nothing until we have killed Paul. 23:15Now therefore, you 
with the council inform the commanding officer that he should bring him down to 
you tomorrow, as though you were going to judge his case more exactly. We are 
ready to kill him before he comes near." 
23:16But Paul's sister's son heard of their 
lying in wait, and he came and entered into the barracks and told Paul. 23:17Paul summoned one of the centurions, 
and said, "Bring this young man to the commanding officer, for he has something 
to tell him." 
23:18So he took him, and brought him to the 
commanding officer, and said, "Paul, the prisoner, summoned me and asked me to 
bring this young man to you, who has something to tell you." 
23:19The commanding officer took him by the 
hand, and going aside, asked him privately, "What is it that you have to tell 
me?" 
23:20He said, "The Jews have agreed to ask 
you to bring Paul down to the council tomorrow, as though intending to inquire 
somewhat more accurately concerning him. 23:21Therefore don't 
yield to them, for more than forty men lie in wait for him, who have bound 
themselves under a curse neither to eat nor to drink until they have killed him. 
Now they are ready, looking for the promise from you." 
23:22So the commanding officer let the 
young man go, charging him, "Tell no one that you have revealed these things to 
me." 23:23He called to himself two of the 
centurions, and said, "Prepare two hundred soldiers to go as far as Caesarea, 
with seventy horsemen, and two hundred men armed with spears, at the third hour of the 
night." 23:24He asked them to provide animals, that 
they might set Paul on one, and bring him safely to Felix the governor. 23:25He wrote a letter like this: 
23:26"Claudius Lysias to the most excellent 
governor Felix: Greetings. 
23:27"This man was seized by the Jews, and 
was about to be killed by them, when I came with the soldiers and rescued him, 
having learned that he was a Roman. 23:28Desiring to know the cause why they 
accused him, I brought him down to their council. 23:29I found him to be 
accused about questions of their law, but to have nothing laid to his charge 
worthy of death or of bonds. 23:30When I was told that the Jews lay in 
wait for the man, I sent him to you immediately, charging his accusers also to 
bring their accusations against him before you. Farewell." 
23:31So the soldiers, carrying out their 
orders, took Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris. 23:32But on the next 
day they left the horsemen to go with him, and returned to the barracks. 23:33When they came to Caesarea and 
delivered the letter to the governor, they also presented Paul to him. 23:34When the governor had read it, he 
asked what province he was from. When he understood that he was from Cilicia, he 
said, 23:35"I will hear you fully when your 
accusers also arrive." He commanded that he be kept in Herod's palace. 
24:1After five days, the high priest, 
Ananias, came down with certain elders and an orator, one Tertullus. They 
informed the governor against Paul. 24:2When he was called, Tertullus began to 
accuse him, saying, "Seeing that by you we enjoy much peace, and that excellent 
measures are coming to this nation, 24:3we accept it in all ways and in all 
places, most excellent Felix, with all thankfulness. 24:4But, that I don't 
delay you, I entreat you to bear with us and hear a few words. 24:5For we have found this man to be a 
plague, an instigator of insurrections among all the Jews throughout the world, 
and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes. 24:6He even tried to 
profane the temple, and we arrested him.* 24:7* 24:8*By 
examining him yourself you may ascertain all these things of which we accuse 
him." 
24:9The Jews also joined in the attack, 
affirming that these things were so. 24:10When the governor had beckoned to him 
to speak, Paul answered, "Because I know that you have been a judge of this 
nation for many years, I cheerfully make my defense, 24:11seeing that you 
can recognize that it is not more than twelve days since I went up to worship at 
Jerusalem. 24:12In the temple they didn't find me 
disputing with anyone or stirring up a crowd, either in the synagogues, or in 
the city. 24:13Nor can they prove to you the things 
of which they now accuse me. 24:14But this I confess to you, that after 
the Way, which they call a sect, so I serve the God of our fathers, believing 
all things which are according to the law, and which are written in the 
prophets; 24:15having hope toward God, which these 
also themselves look for, that there will be a resurrection of the dead, both of 
the just and unjust. 24:16Herein I also practice always having a 
conscience void of offense toward God and men. 24:17Now after some 
years, I came to bring gifts for the needy to my nation, and offerings; 24:18amid which certain Jews from Asia 
found me purified in the temple, not with a mob, nor with turmoil. 24:19They ought to have been here before 
you, and to make accusation, if they had anything against me. 24:20Or else let these men themselves say 
what injustice they found in me when I stood before the council, 24:21unless it is for this one thing that I 
cried standing among them, 'Concerning the resurrection of the dead I am being 
judged before you today!'" 
24:22But Felix, having more exact knowledge 
concerning the Way, deferred them, saying, "When Lysias, the commanding officer, 
comes down, I will decide your case." 24:23He ordered the centurion that Paul 
should be kept in custody, and should have some privileges, and not to forbid 
any of his friends to serve him or to visit him. 24:24But after some 
days, Felix came with Drusilla, his wife, who was a Jewess, and sent for Paul, 
and heard him concerning the faith in Christ Jesus. 24:25As he reasoned 
about righteousness, self-control, and the judgment to come, Felix was 
terrified, and answered, "Go your way for this time, and when it is convenient 
for me, I will summon you." 24:26Meanwhile, he also hoped that money 
would be given to him by Paul, that he might release him. Therefore also he sent 
for him more often, and talked with him. 24:27But when two years 
were fulfilled, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus, and desiring to gain 
favor with the Jews, Felix left Paul in bonds. 
25:1Festus therefore, having come into the 
province, after three days went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea. 25:2Then the high priest and the principal 
men of the Jews informed him against Paul, and they begged him, 25:3asking a favor against him, that he 
would summon him to Jerusalem; plotting to kill him on the way. 25:4However Festus answered that Paul 
should be kept in custody at Caesarea, and that he himself was about to depart 
shortly. 25:5"Let them therefore," said he, "that 
are in power among you go down with me, and if there is anything wrong in the 
man, let them accuse him." 
25:6When he had stayed among them more than 
ten days, he went down to Caesarea, and on the next day he sat on the judgment 
seat, and commanded Paul to be brought. 25:7When he had come, the Jews who had come 
down from Jerusalem stood around him, bringing against him many and grievous 
charges which they could not prove, 25:8while he said in his defense, "Neither 
against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar, have I 
sinned at all." 
25:9But Festus, desiring to gain favor with 
the Jews, answered Paul and said, "Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem, and be 
judged by me there concerning these things?" 
25:10But Paul said, "I am standing before 
Caesar's judgment seat, where I ought to be tried. I have done no wrong to the 
Jews, as you also know very well. 25:11For if I have done wrong, and have 
committed anything worthy of death, I don't refuse to die; but if none of those 
things is true that they accuse me of, no one can give me up to them. I appeal 
to Caesar!" 
25:12Then Festus, when he had conferred 
with the council, answered, "You have appealed to Caesar. To Caesar you shall 
go." 
25:13Now when some days had passed, Agrippa 
the King and Bernice arrived at Caesarea, and greeted Festus. 25:14As he stayed there many days, Festus 
laid Paul's case before the king, saying, "There is a certain man left a 
prisoner by Felix; 25:15about whom, when I was at Jerusalem, 
the chief priests and the elders of the Jews informed me, asking for a sentence 
against him. 25:16To whom I answered that it is not the 
custom of the Romans to give up any man to destruction, before the accused has 
met the accusers face to face, and has had opportunity to make his defense 
concerning the matter laid against him. 25:17When therefore they had come together 
here, I didn't delay, but on the next day sat on the judgment seat, and 
commanded the man to be brought. 25:18Concerning whom, when the accusers 
stood up, they brought no charge of such things as I supposed; 25:19but had certain questions against him 
about their own religion, and about one Jesus, who was dead, whom Paul affirmed 
to be alive. 25:20Being perplexed how to inquire 
concerning these things, I asked whether he was willing to go to Jerusalem and 
there be judged concerning these matters. 25:21But when Paul had 
appealed to be kept for the decision of the emperor, I commanded him to be kept 
until I could send him to Caesar." 
25:22Agrippa said to Festus, "I also would 
like to hear the man myself." 
"Tomorrow," he said, "you shall hear him." 
25:23So on the next day, when Agrippa and 
Bernice had come with great pomp, and they had entered into the place of hearing 
with the commanding officers and principal men of the city, at the command of 
Festus, Paul was brought in. 25:24Festus said, "King Agrippa, and all 
men who are here present with us, you see this man, about whom all the multitude 
of the Jews petitioned me, both at Jerusalem and here, crying that he ought not 
to live any longer. 25:25But when I found that he had committed 
nothing worthy of death, and as he himself appealed to the emperor I determined 
to send him. 25:26Of whom I have no certain thing to 
write to my lord. Therefore I have brought him forth before you, and especially 
before you, King Agrippa, that, after examination, I may have something to 
write. 25:27For it seems to me unreasonable, in 
sending a prisoner, not to also specify the charges against him." 
26:1Agrippa said to Paul, "You may speak 
for yourself." 
Then Paul stretched out his hand, and made his defense. 26:2"I think myself 
happy, King Agrippa, that I am to make my defense before you this day concerning 
all the things that I am accused by the Jews, 26:3especially because 
you are expert in all customs and questions which are among the Jews. Therefore 
I beg you to hear me patiently. 
26:4"Indeed, all the Jews know my way of 
life from my youth up, which was from the beginning among my own nation and at 
Jerusalem; 26:5having known me from the first, if they 
are willing to testify, that after the strictest sect of our religion I lived a 
Pharisee. 26:6Now I stand here to be judged for the 
hope of the promise made by God to our fathers, 26:7which our twelve 
tribes, earnestly serving night and day, hope to attain. Concerning this hope I 
am accused by the Jews, King Agrippa! 26:8Why is it judged incredible with you, 
if God does raise the dead? 
26:9"I myself most assuredly thought that I 
ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. 26:10This I also did in Jerusalem. I both 
shut up many of the saints in prisons, having received authority from the chief 
priests, and when they were put to death I gave my vote against them. 26:11Punishing them often in all the 
synagogues, I tried to make them blaspheme. Being exceedingly enraged against 
them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities. 
26:12"Whereupon as I traveled to Damascus 
with the authority and commission from the chief priests, 26:13at noon, O King, I 
saw on the way a light from the sky, brighter than the sun, shining around me 
and those who traveled with me. 26:14When we had all fallen to the earth, I 
heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew language, 'Saul, 
Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the 
goads.'
26:15"I said, 'Who are you, Lord?' 
"He said, 'I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. 
26:16But arise, and 
stand on your feet, for I have appeared to you for this purpose: to appoint you 
a servant and a witness both of the things which you have seen, and of the 
things which I will reveal to you; 26:17delivering you from the people, and from the Gentiles, to whom I 
send you, 26:18to open their 
eyes, that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to 
God, that they may receive remission of sins and an inheritance among those who 
are sanctified by faith in me.'
26:19"Therefore, King Agrippa, I was not 
disobedient to the heavenly vision, 26:20but declared first to them of 
Damascus, at Jerusalem, and throughout all the country of Judea, and also to the 
Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, doing works worthy of 
repentance. 26:21For this reason the Jews seized me in 
the temple, and tried to kill me. 26:22Having therefore obtained the help 
that is from God, I stand to this day testifying both to small and great, saying 
nothing but what the prophets and Moses said would happen, 26:23how the Christ 
must suffer, and how, by the resurrection of the dead, he would be first to 
proclaim light both to these people and to the Gentiles." 
26:24As he thus made his defense, Festus 
said with a loud voice, "Paul, you are crazy! Your great learning is driving you 
insane!" 
26:25But he said, "I am not crazy, most 
excellent Festus, but boldly declare words of truth and reasonableness. 26:26For the king knows of these things, to 
whom also I speak freely. For I am persuaded that none of these things is hidden 
from him, for this has not been done in a corner. 26:27King Agrippa, do 
you believe the prophets? I know that you believe." 
26:28Agrippa said to Paul, "With a little 
persuasion are you trying to make me a Christian?" 
26:29Paul said, "I pray to God, that 
whether with little or with much, not only you, but also all that hear me this 
day, might become such as I am, except for these bonds." 
26:30The king rose up with the governor, 
and Bernice, and those who sat with them. 26:31When they had 
withdrawn, they spoke one to another, saying, "This man does nothing worthy of 
death or of bonds." 26:32Agrippa said to Festus, "This man 
might have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar." 
27:1When it was determined that we should 
sail for Italy, they delivered Paul and certain other prisoners to a centurion 
named Julius, of the Augustan band. 27:2Embarking in a ship of Adramyttium, 
which was about to sail to places on the coast of Asia, we put to sea; 
Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us. 27:3The next day, we 
touched at Sidon. Julius treated Paul kindly, and gave him permission to go to 
his friends and refresh himself. 27:4Putting to sea from there, we sailed 
under the lee of Cyprus, because the winds were contrary. 27:5When we had sailed 
across the sea which is off Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra, a city of 
Lycia. 27:6There the centurion found a ship of 
Alexandria sailing for Italy, and he put us on board. 27:7When we had sailed 
slowly many days, and had come with difficulty opposite Cnidus, the wind not 
allowing us further, we sailed under the lee of Crete, opposite Salmone. 27:8With difficulty sailing along it we 
came to a certain place called Fair Havens, near the city of Lasea. 
27:9When much time had passed and the 
voyage was now dangerous, because the Fast had now already gone by, Paul 
admonished them, 27:10and said to them, "Sirs, I perceive 
that the voyage will be with injury and much loss, not only of the cargo and the 
ship, but also of our lives." 27:11But the centurion gave more heed to 
the master and to the owner of the ship than to those things which were spoken 
by Paul. 27:12Because the haven was not suitable to 
winter in, the majority advised going to sea from there, if by any means they 
could reach Phoenix, and winter there, which is a port of Crete, looking 
northeast and southeast. 
27:13When the south wind blew softly, 
supposing that they had obtained their purpose, they weighed anchor and sailed 
along Crete, close to shore. 27:14But before long, a tempestuous wind 
beat down from shore, which is called Euroclydon. 27:15When the ship was caught, and couldn't 
face the wind, we gave way to it, and were driven along. 27:16Running under the 
lee of a small island called Clauda, we were able, with difficulty, to secure 
the boat. 27:17After they had hoisted it up, they 
used cables to help reinforce the ship. Fearing that they would run aground on 
the Syrtis sand bars, they lowered the sea anchor, and so were driven along. 27:18As we labored exceedingly with the 
storm, the next day they began to throw things overboard. 27:19On the third day, 
they threw out the ship's tackle with their own hands. 27:20When neither sun 
nor stars shone on us for many days, and no small tempest pressed on us, all 
hope that we would be saved was now taken away. 
27:21When they had been long without food, 
Paul stood up in the middle of them, and said, "Sirs, you should have listened 
to me, and not have set sail from Crete, and have gotten this injury and loss. 
27:22Now I exhort you to cheer up, for 
there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship. 27:23For there stood by me this night an 
angel, belonging to the God whose I am and whom I serve, 27:24saying, 'Don't be 
afraid, Paul. You must stand before Caesar. Behold, God has granted you all 
those who sail with you.' 27:25Therefore, sirs, cheer up! For I 
believe God, that it will be just as it has been spoken to me. 27:26But we must run aground on a certain 
island." 
27:27But when the fourteenth night had 
come, as we were driven back and forth in the Adriatic Sea, about midnight the 
sailors surmised that they were drawing near to some land. 27:28They took 
soundings, and found twenty fathoms. After a 
little while, they took soundings again, and found fifteen fathoms.. 27:29Fearing that we would run aground on 
rocky ground, they let go four anchors from the stern, and wished for daylight. 
27:30As the sailors were trying to flee out 
of the ship, and had lowered the boat into the sea, pretending that they would 
lay out anchors from the bow, 27:31Paul said to the centurion and to the 
soldiers, "Unless these stay in the ship, you can't be saved." 27:32Then the soldiers cut away the ropes 
of the boat, and let it fall off. 
27:33While the day was coming on, Paul 
begged them all to take some food, saying, "This day is the fourteenth day that 
you wait and continue fasting, having taken nothing. 27:34Therefore I beg 
you to take some food, for this is for your safety; for not a hair will perish 
from any of your heads." 27:35When he had said this, and had taken 
bread, he gave thanks to God in the presence of all, and he broke it, and began 
to eat. 27:36Then they all cheered up, and they 
also took food. 27:37In all, we were two hundred 
seventy-six souls on the ship. 27:38When they had eaten enough, they 
lightened the ship, throwing out the wheat into the sea. 27:39When it was day, 
they didn't recognize the land, but they noticed a certain bay with a beach, and 
they decided to try to drive the ship onto it. 27:40Casting off the 
anchors, they left them in the sea, at the same time untying the rudder ropes. 
Hoisting up the foresail to the wind, they made for the beach. 27:41But coming to a place where two seas 
met, they ran the vessel aground. The bow struck and remained immovable, but the 
stern began to break up by the violence of the waves. 
27:42The soldiers' counsel was to kill the 
prisoners, so that none of them would swim out and escape. 27:43But the centurion, 
desiring to save Paul, stopped them from their purpose, and commanded that those 
who could swim should throw themselves overboard first to go toward the land; 27:44and the rest should follow, some on 
planks, and some on other things from the ship. So it happened that they all 
escaped safely to the land. 
28:1When we had escaped, then they learned that the 
island was called Malta. 28:2The natives showed us uncommon 
kindness; for they kindled a fire, and received us all, because of the present 
rain, and because of the cold. 28:3But when Paul had gathered a bundle of 
sticks and laid them on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat, and 
fastened on his hand. 28:4When the natives saw the creature 
hanging from his hand, they said one to another, "No doubt this man is a 
murderer, whom, though he has escaped from the sea, yet Justice has not allowed 
to live." 28:5However he shook off the creature into 
the fire, and wasn't harmed. 28:6But they expected that he would have 
swollen or fallen down dead suddenly, but when they watched for a long time and 
saw nothing bad happen to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was a 
god. 
28:7Now in the neighborhood of that place 
were lands belonging to the chief man of the island, named Publius, who received 
us, and courteously entertained us for three days. 28:8It happened that 
the father of Publius lay sick of fever and dysentery. Paul entered in to him, 
prayed, and laying his hands on him, healed him. 28:9Then when this was 
done, the rest also who had diseases in the island came, and were cured. 28:10They also honored us with many honors, 
and when we sailed, they put on board the things that we needed. 
28:11After three months, we set sail in a 
ship of Alexandria which had wintered in the island, whose sign was "The Twin 
Brothers." 28:12Touching at Syracuse, we stayed there 
three days. 28:13From there we circled around and 
arrived at Rhegium. After one day, a south wind sprang up, and on the second day 
we came to Puteoli, 28:14where we found brothers, and were 
entreated to stay with them for seven days. So we came to Rome. 28:15From there the brothers, when they 
heard of us, came to meet us as far as The Market of Appius and The Three 
Taverns. When Paul saw them, he thanked God, and took courage. 28:16When we entered into Rome, the 
centurion delivered the prisoners to the captain of the guard, but Paul was 
allowed to stay by himself with the soldier who guarded him. 
28:17It happened that after three days Paul 
called together those who were the leaders of the Jews. When they had come 
together, he said to them, "I, brothers, though I had done nothing against the 
people, or the customs of our fathers, still was delivered prisoner from 
Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans, 28:18who, when they had examined me, 
desired to set me free, because there was no cause of death in me. 28:19But when the Jews spoke against it, I 
was constrained to appeal to Caesar, not that I had anything about which to 
accuse my nation. 28:20For this cause therefore I asked to 
see you and to speak with you. For because of the hope of Israel I am bound with 
this chain." 
28:21They said to him, "We neither received 
letters from Judea concerning you, nor did any of the brothers come here and 
report or speak any evil of you. 28:22But we desire to hear from you what 
you think. For, as concerning this sect, it is known to us that everywhere it is 
spoken against." 
28:23When they had appointed him a day, 
many people came to him at his lodging. He explained to them, testifying about 
the Kingdom of God, and persuading them concerning Jesus, both from the law of 
Moses and from the prophets, from morning until evening. 28:24Some believed the 
things which were spoken, and some disbelieved. 28:25When they didn't 
agree among themselves, they departed after Paul had spoken one word, "The Holy 
Spirit spoke rightly through Isaiah, the prophet, to our fathers, 28:26saying, 
 'Go to this people, and say, 
 In hearing, you will hear,      But 
will in no way understand. 
 In seeing, you will see,      But 
will in no way perceive. 
 28:27For this people's heart has grown 
callous.      Their ears are dull of 
hearing.      Their eyes they have closed. 
 Lest they should see with their 
eyes,      Hear with their 
ears,      Understand with their 
heart,      And would turn 
again,      And I would heal them.' 
28:28"Be it known therefore to you, that 
the salvation of God is sent to the Gentiles. They will also listen." 
28:29When he had said these words, the Jews 
departed, having a great dispute among themselves. 
28:30Paul stayed two whole years in his own 
rented house, and received all who were coming to him, 28:31preaching the 
Kingdom of God, and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with 
all boldness, without hinderance. 




Notes:
[1] back to 2:15 about 
9:00 AM
[2] back to 3:1 3:00 PM
[3] back to 3:17 The word 
for "brothers" here may be also correctly translated "brothers and sisters" or 
"siblings."
[4] back to 4:26 Christ 
(Greek) and Messiah (Hebrew) both mean Anointed One. (Compare Psalm 2)
[5] back to 7:23 The word 
for "brothers" here and where the context allows may be also correctly 
translated "brothers and sisters" or "siblings."
[6] back to 7:37 TR adds 
"You shall listen to him."
[7] back to 8:37 TR adds 
"Philip said, 'If you believe with all your heart, you may.' He answered, 'I 
believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.'"
[8] back to 9:5 TR adds 
"It's hard for you to kick against the goads."
[9] back to 9:6 TR omits 
"But" 
[10] back to 9:28 TR and NU 
add "and going out"
[11] back to 9:30 The word 
for "brothers" here and where the context allows may also be correctly 
translated "brothers and sisters" or "siblings."
[12] back to 9:36 "Dorcas" 
is Greek for "Gazelle."
[13] back to 9:38 Reading 
from NU, TR; MT omits "two men"
[14] back to 10:3 3:00 PM
[15] back to 10:6 TR adds 
"This one will tell you what it is necessary for you to do."
[16] back to 10:19 Reading 
from TR and NU. MT omits "three"
[17] back to 10:30 3:00 P. 
M.
[18] back to 10:39 TR 
omits "also"
[19] back to 11:1 The word 
for "brothers" here and where context allows may also be correctly translated 
"brothers and sisters" or "siblings."
[20] back to 12:25 TR 
reads "from" instead of "to"
[21] back to 13:17 TR, NU 
add "Israel"
[22] back to 13:23 TR, NU 
read "a Savior, Jesus" instead of "salvation"
[23] back to 13:24 TR, NU 
read "to all the people of Israel" instead of "to Israel"
[24] back to 13:38 The 
word for "brothers" here and where the context allows may also be correctly 
translated "brothers and sisters" or "siblings."
[25] back to 14:2 or, 
disobedient
[26] back to 14:17 TR 
reads "us" instead of "you"
[27] back to 15:3 The word 
for "brothers" here and where the context allows may also be correctly 
translated "brothers and sisters" or "siblings."
[28] back to 15:11 TR adds 
"Christ"
[29] back to 15:22 The 
word for "brothers" here and where the context allows may also be correctly 
translated "brothers and sisters" or "siblings."
[30] back to 15:34 Some 
manuscripts add: But it seemed good to Silas to stay there.
[31] back to 17:5 TR reads 
"And the Jews who were unpersuaded, becoming envious and taking along" instead 
of "But the unpersuaded Jews took along"
[32] back to 17:6 The word 
for "brothers" here and where the context allows may be also correctly 
translated "brothers and sisters" or "siblings."
[33] back to 17:18 TR 
omits "also"
[34] back to 18:18 The 
word for "brothers" here and where the context allows may also be correctly 
translated "brothers and sisters" or "siblings."
[35] back to 19:19 The 
50,000 pieces of silver here probably referred to 50,000 drachmas. If so, the 
value of the burned books was equivalent to about 160 man-years of wages for 
agricultural laborers
[36] back to 20:8 TR reads 
"they" instead of "we"
[37] back to 20:21 TR adds 
"Christ"
[38] back to 20:28 TR, NU 
omit "the Lord and"
[39] back to 20:32 The 
word for "brothers" here and where the context allows may also be correctly 
translated "brothers and sisters" or "siblings."
[40] back to 23:23 about 
9:00 PM
[41] back to 24:6 TR adds 
"We wanted to judge him according to our law,"
[42] back to 24:7 TR adds 
"but the commanding officer, Lysias, came by and with great violence took him 
out of our hands,"
[43] back to 24:8 TR adds 
"commanding his accusers to come to you."
[44] back to 27:14 Or, "a 
northeaster."
[45] back to 27:28 20 
fathoms = 120 feet = 36.6 meters
[46] back to 27:28 15 
fathoms = 90 feet = 27.4 meters
[47] back to 28:1 NU reads 
"we"
[48] back to 28:14 The 
word for "brothers" here and where context allows may also be correctly 
translated "brothers and sisters" or "siblings." 

