
Allogenes











Translated by John D. Turner and Orval S. Wintermute

      (5 lines missing)
      ... since they are perfect individuals and dwell all together, joined with the mind, the
      guardian which I provided, who taught you (sg.). And it is the power that exists within
      you that often extended itself as word from the Triple-Powered One, that One of all those
      who truly exist with the Immeasurable One, the eternal Light of the Knowledge that
      appeared, the male virginal Youth, the first of the Aeons from a unique triple-powered
      Aeon, the Triple-Powered-One who truly exists, for when he was stilled, was extended and
      when he was extended, he became complete and he received power from all of them. He knows
      himself and the perfect Invisible Spirit. And he came to be in an Aeon who knows that she
      knows That One. And she became Kalyptos, who acted in those whom she knows. He is a
      perfect, invisible, noetic Protophanes-Harmedon. And empowering the individuals, she is a
      Triple-Male. And being individually ... 
      (5 lines missing)
      ... individual on the one hand, they are together on the other hand, since she is an
      existence of theirs, and she sees them all also truly. She contains the divine Autogenes. 
When she knew her Existence and when she stood, she brought This One (masc.), since he
      saw them all existing individually as he is. And when they become as he is, they shall see
      the divine Triple-Male, the power that is higher than God. He is the Thought of all these
      who exist together. If he ponders them, he ponders the great male [...] noetic
      Protophanes, the procession of these. When he sees it, he sees also those who truly exist
      and the procession of those who are together. And when he has seen these, he has seen the
      Kalyptos. And if he sees one of the hidden ones, he sees the Aeon of Barbelo. And as for
      the unbegotten offspring of That One, if one sees how he lives ... 
      (4 lines missing)
      ... you have heard about the abundance of each one of them certainly. 
But concerning the invisible, spiritual Triple-Powered-One, hear! He exists as an
      Invisible One who is incomprehensible to them all. He contains them all within himself,
      for they all exist because of him. He is perfect, and he is greater than perfect, and he
      is blessed. He is always One and he exists in them all, being ineffable, unnameable, being
      One who exists through them all - he whom, should one discern him, one would not desire
      anything that exists before him among those that possess existence, for he is the source
      from which they were all emitted. He is prior to perfection. He was prior to every
      divinity, and he is prior to every blessedness, since he provides for every power. And he
      <is> a nonsubstantial substance, since he is a God over whom there is no divinity,
      the transcending of whose greatness and beauty ... 
      (5 lines missing)
      ... power. It is not impossible for them to receive a revelation of these things, if they
      come together. Since it is impossible for the individuals to comprehend the Universal One
      situated in the place that is higher than perfect, they apprehend by means of a First
      Thought - not as Being alone, but it is along with the latency of Existence that he
      confers Being. He provides everything for himself, since it is he who shall come to be
      when he recognizes himself. And he is One who subsists as a cause and source of Being, and
      an immaterial material and an innumerable number and a formless form and a shapeless shape
      and a powerlessness and a power and an insubstantial substance and a motionless motion and
      an inactive activity. Yet he is a provider of provisions and a divinity of divinity - but
      whenever they apprehend, they participate the first Vitality and an undivided activity, an
      hypostasis of the First One from the One who truly exists. And a second activity [...]
      however, is the [...]. He is endowed with blessedness and goodness, because when he is
      recognized as the traverser of the boundlessness of the Invisible Spirit that subsists in
      him, it (the boundlessness) turns him to it (the invisible spirit) in order that it might
      know what is within him and how he exists. And he was becoming salvation for every one by
      being a point of departure for those who truly exist, for through him his knowledge
      endured, since he is the one who knows what he is. But they brought forth nothing beyond
      themselves, neither power nor rank nor glory nor aeon, for they are all eternal. He is
      Vitality and Mentality and That-Which-Is. For then That-Which-Is constantly possesses its
      Vitality and Mentality, and Life has Vitality possesses non-Being and Mentality. Mentality
      possesses Life and That-Which-Is. And the three are one, although individually they are
      three. 
Now after I heard these things, my son Messos, I was afraid, and I turned toward the
      multitude [...] thought [...] gives power to those who are capable of knowing these things
      by a revelation that is much greater. And I was capable, although flesh was upon me. I
      heard from you about these things and about the doctrine that is in them, since the
      thought which is in me distinguished the things that are beyond measure as well as the
      unknowables. Therefore I fear that my doctrine may have become something beyond what is
      fitting. 
And then, my son Messos, the all-glorious One, Youel, spoke to me again. She made a
      revelation to me and said: "No one is able to hear these things except the great
      powers alone, O Allogenes. A great power was put upon you, which the Father of the All,
      the Eternal, put upon you before you came to this place, in order that those things that
      are difficult to distinguish you might distinguish and those things that are unknown to
      the multitude you might know, and that you might escape (in safety) to the One who is
      yours, who was first to save and who does not need to be saved ... 
      (5 lines missing)
      ... to you a form and a revelation of the invisible, spiritual Triple-Powered One, outside
      of which dwells an undivided, incorporeal, eternal knowledge. 
As with all the Aeons, the Aeon of Barbelo exists also endowed with the types and forms
      of those who truly exist, the image of Kalyptos. And endowed with the intellectual Word of
      these, he bears the noetic male Protophanes like an image, and he acts within the
      individuals, either with craft or with skill or with partial instinct. He is endowed with
      the divine Autogenes like an image, and he knows each one of these. He acts separately and
      individually, continuing to rectify the failures from nature. He is endowed with the
      divine Triple-Male as salvation for them all, in cooperation with the Invisible Spirit. He
      is a word from a counsel, <he> is the perfect Youth. And this hypostasis is a ... 
(6 lines missing) 
... my soul went slack, and I fled and was very disturbed. And I turned to myself and
      saw the light that surrounded me and the Good that was in me, I became divine. 
And the all-glorious One, Youel, anointed me again and she gave power to me. She said,
      "Since your instruction has become complete, and you have known the Good that is
      within you, hear concerning the Triple-Powered One those things that you will guard in
      great silence and great mystery, because they are not spoken to anyone except those who
      are worthy, those who are able to hear: nor is it fitting to speak to an uninstructed
      generation concerning the Universal One that is higher than perfect. But you have
      <these> because of the Triple-Powered One, the One who exists in blessedness and
      goodness, the One who is responsible for all these. 
"There exists within him much greatness. Inasmuch as he is one in a ... 
      (5 lines missing)
      ... of the First Thought, which does not fall away from those who dwell in comprehension
      and knowledge and understanding. And That One moved motionlessly in that which governs,
      lest he sink into the boundless by means of another activity of Mentality. And he entered
      into himself and he appeared, being all-encompassing, the Universal One that is higher
      than perfect. 
"Indeed it is not through me that he is to such a degree anterior to knowledge.
      Whereas there is no possibility for complete comprehension, he is (nevertheless) known.
      And this is so because of the third silence of Mentality and the second undivided activity
      which appeared in the First Thought, that is, the Aeon of Barbelo, together with the
      Indivisible One of the divisible likenesses and the Triple-Powered-One and the
      non-substantial Existence." 
<Then> the power appeared by means of an activity that is at rest and silent,
      although it uttered a sound thus: zza zza zza. But when she (Youel) heard the power and
      she was filled ... 
      (5 lines missing)
      ... "Thou art [...], Solmis! [...] according to the Vitality that is thine, and the
      first activity which derives from divinity. Thou art great, Armedon! Thou art perfect,
      Epiphaneus! 
"And according to that activity of thine, the second power and the Mentality which
      derives from blessedness: Autoer, Beritheus, Erigenaor, Orimenios, Aramen, Alphleges,
      Elelioupheus, Lalameus, Yetheus, Noetheus, thou art great! He who knows thee knows the
      Universal One! Thou art One, thou art One, He who is good, Aphredon! Thou art the Aeon of
      the Aeons, He who is perpetually!" 
Then she praised the Universal One, saying "Lalameus, Noetheus, Senaon, Asine[us,
      ...]riphanios, Mellephaneus, Elemaoni, Smoun, Optaon, He Who Is! Thou art He Who Is, the
      Aeon of Aeons, the Unbegotten, who art higher than the unbegotten (ones), Yatomenos, thou
      alone for whom all the unborn ones were begotten, the Unnameable One! ... (10 lines
      missing) ... knowledge." 
Now after I heard these things, I saw the glories of the perfect individuals and the
      all-perfect ones who exist together, and the all-perfect ones who are before the perfect
      ones. 
Again the greatly glorious One, Youel, said to me, "O Allogenes, in an unknowing
      knowledge you know that the Triple-Powered One exists before the glories. They do not
      exist among those who exist. They do not exist together with those who exist nor those who
      truly exist. Rather, all these exist as divinity and blessedness and existence, and as
      nonsubstantiality and non-being existence." 
And then I prayed that the revelation might occur to me. And then the all-glorious one,
      Youel, said to me, "O Allogenes, of course, the Triple-Male is something beyond
      substance. Yet were he insubstantial ... 
      (9 lines missing)
      ... those who exist in association with the generation of those who truly exist. The
      self-begotten ones exist with the Triple-Male. 
"If you seek with a perfect seeking, then you shall know the Good that is in you;
      then you will know yourself as well, (as) one who derives from the God who truly
      pre-exists. For after a hundred years there shall come to you a revelation of That One by
      means of Salamex and Semen and [...] the Luminaries of the Aeon of Barbelo. And that
      beyond what is fitting for you, you shall not know at first, so as not to forfeit your
      kind. And if so, then when you receive a conception of That One, then you are filled with
      the word to completion. Then you become divine, and you become perfect. You receive them
      ... 
      (4 lines missing)
      ... the seeking [...] the Existence [...] if it apprehends anything, it is apprehended by
      that one and by the very one who is comprehended. And then he becomes greater who
      comprehends and knows than he who is comprehended and known. But if he descends to his
      nature, he is less, for the incorporeal natures have not associated with any magnitude;
      having this power, they are everywhere and they are nowhere, since they are greater than
      every magnitude, and less than every exiguity." 
Now after the all-glorious One, Youel, said these things, she separated from me and
      left me. But I did not despair of the words that I heard. I prepared myself therein and I
      deliberated with myself for a hundred years. And I rejoiced exceedingly, since I was in a
      great light and a blessed path because those whom I was worthy to see as well as those
      whom I was worthy to hear (are) those whom it is fitting that the great powers alone ...
      (5 lines missing) ... of God. 
When the completion of the one hundred years drew nigh, it brought me a blessedness of
      the eternal hope full of auspiciousness. I saw the good divine Autogenes; and the Savior,
      who is the youthful, perfect Triple-Male Child; and his goodness, the noetic perfect
      Protophanes-Harmedon; and the blessedness of the Kalyptos; and the primary origin of the
      blessedness, the Aeon of Barbelo, full of divinity; and the primary origin of the one
      without origin, the spiritual, invisible Triple-Powered One, the Universal One that is
      higher than perfect. 
When <I> was taken by the eternal Light out of the garment that was upon me, and
      taken up to a holy place whose likeness cannot be revealed in the world, then by means of
      a great blessedness I saw all those about whom I had heard. And I praised all of them and
      I stood upon my knowledge and I inclined to the knowledge of the Universals, the Aeon of
      Barbelo. 
And I saw holy powers by means of the Luminaries of the virginal male Barbelo telling
      me that I would be able to test what happens in the world: "O Allogenes, behold your
      blessedness, how it silently abides, by which you know your proper self and, seeking
      yourself, withdraw to the Vitality that you will see moving. And although it is impossible
      for you to stand, fear nothing; but if you wish to stand, withdraw to the Existence, and
      you will find it standing and at rest after the likeness of the One who is truly at rest
      and (who) embraces all these silently and inactively. And when you receive a revelation of
      him by means of a primary revelation of the Unknown One - the One whom if you should know
      him, be ignorant of him - and you become afraid in that place, withdraw to the rear
      because of the activities. And when you become perfect in that place, still yourself. And
      in accordance with the pattern that indwells you, know likewise that it is this way in all
      such (matters) after this pattern. And do not further dissipate, so that you may be able
      to stand, and do not desire to be active, lest you fall in any way from the inactivity in
      you of the Unknown One. Do not know him, for it is impossible; but if by means of an
      enlightened thought you should know him, be ignorant of him." 
Now I was listening to these things as those ones spoke them. There was within me a
      stillness of silence, and I heard the Blessedness whereby I knew <my> proper self. 
And I withdrew to the Vitality as I sought <myself>, and I joined into it, and I
      stood, not firmly but silently. And I saw an eternal, intellectual, undivided motion that
      pertains to all the formless powers, (which is) unlimited by limitation. 
And when I wanted to stand firmly, I withdrew to the Existence, which I found standing
      and at rest, like an image and likeness of what is conferred upon me by a revelation of
      the Indivisible One and the One who is at rest. I was filled with revelation by means of a
      primary revelation of the Unknowable One. As though I were ignorant of him, I knew him,
      and I received power by him. Having been permanently strengthened, I knew the One who
      exists in me, and the Triple-Powered One, and the revelation of his uncontainableness. And
      by means of a primary revelation of the First One unknowable to them all, the God who is
      beyond perfection, I saw him and the Triple-Powered One that exists in them all. I was
      seeking the ineffable and Unknowable God - whom if one should know him, he would be
      absolutely ignorant of him - the Mediator of the Triple-Powered One who subsists in
      stillness and silence and is unknowable. 
And when I was confirmed in these matters, the powers of the Luminaries said to me,
      "Cease hindering the inactivity that exists in you, by seeking incomprehensible
      matters; rather, hear about him in so far as it is possible by means of a primary
      revelation and a revelation." 
"Now he is something insofar as he exists in that he either exists and will
      become, or acts or knows, although he lives without Mind or Life or Existence or
      Non-Existence, incomprehensibly. And he is something along with his proper being. He is
      not left over in some way, as if he yields something that is assayed or purified or that
      receives or gives. And he is not diminished in any way, whether by his own desire, or
      whether he gives or receives through another. Neither does he have any desire of himself
      nor from another; it does not affect him. Rather, neither does he give anything by
      himself, lest he become diminished in another respect; nor for this reason does he need
      Mind, or Life, is indeed anything at all. He is superior to the Universals in his
      privation and unknowability, that is, the non-being existence, since he is endowed with
      silence and stillness lest he be diminished by those who are not diminished. 
"He is neither divinity nor blessedness nor perfection. Rather, it (this triad) is
      an unknowable entity of him, not that which is proper to him; rather, he is another one
      superior to the blessedness and the divinity and perfection. For he is not perfect, but he
      is another thing that is superior. He is neither boundless, nor is he bounded by another.
      Rather, he is something superior. He is not corporeal. He is not incorporeal. He is not
      great. He is not small. He is not a number. He is not a creature. Nor is he something that
      exists, that one can know. But he is something else of himself that is superior, which one
      cannot know. 
"He is primary revelation and knowledge of himself, as it is he alone who knows
      himself. Since he is not one of those that exist, but is another thing, he is superior to
      superlatives, even in comparison to what is his and not his. He neither participates in
      age nor does he participate in time. He does not receive anything from anything else. He
      is not diminishable, neither does he diminish anything, nor is he undiminishable. But he
      is self-comprehending, as something so unknowable that he exceeds those who excel in
      unknowability. 
"He is endowed with blessedness and perfection and silence - not <the
      blessedness> nor the perfection - and stillness. Rather it (these attributes) is an
      entity of him that exists, which one cannot know, and which is at rest. Rather they are
      entities of him unknowable to them all. 
"And he is much higher in beauty than all those that are good, and he is thus
      unknowable to all of them in every respect. And through them all he is in them all, not
      only as the unknowable knowledge that is proper to him. And he is united with the
      ignorance that sees him. Whether <one sees> in what way he is unknowable, or sees
      him as he is in every respect, or would say that he is something like knowledge, he has
      sinned against him, being liable to judgment because he did not know God. He will not be
      judged by That One who is neither concerned for anything nor has any desire, but it
      (judgment) <is> from himself, because he did not find the origin that truly exists.
      He was blind, apart from the eye of revelation that is at rest, the (one) that is
      activated, the (one) from the Triple-Power of the First Thought of the Invisible Spirit.
      This one thus exists from ... 
      (15 lines missing)
      ... something [...] set firmly on the [...], a beauty and a first emergence of stillness
      and silence and tranquility and unfathomable greatness. When he appeared, he did not need
      time nor <did he partake> of eternity. Rather of himself he is unfathomably
      unfathomable. He does not activate himself so as to become still. He is not an existence,
      lest he be in want. Spatially, he is corporeal, while properly he is incorporeal. He has
      non-being existence. He exists for all of them unto himself without any desire. But he is
      a greater summit of greatness. And he is higher than his stillness, in order that ... 
      (15 lines missing)
      ... he saw them, and empowered them all, although they do not concern themselves with That
      One at all, nor, if one should receive from him, does he receive power. Nothing activates
      him in accordance with the Unity that is at rest. For he is unknowable; he is an airless
      place of boundlessness. Since he is boundless and powerless and nonexistent, he was not
      giving Being. Rather he contains all of these in himself, being at rest (and) standing out
      of the one who stands continually, since there had appeared an Eternal Life, the Invisible
      and Triple-Powered Spirit which is in all of these who exist. And it surrounds them all,
      being higher than them all. A shadow ... 
      (15 lines missing)
      ... he was filled with power. And he stood before them, empowering them all, and he filled
      them all." 
And concerning all of these things you have heard certainly. And do not seek anything
      more, but go. We do not know whether the Unknowable One has angels or gods, or whether the
      One who is at rest was containing anything within himself except the stillness, which is
      he, lest he be diminished. It is not fitting to spend more time seeking. It was
      appropriate that you (pl.) know, and that they speak with another one. But you will
      receive them ... 
      (5 lines missing)
      ... and he said to me, "Write down the things that I shall tell you, and of which I
      shall remind you, for the sake of those who will be worthy after you. And you will leave
      this book upon a mountain and you will adjure the guardian: "Come Dreadful One".
      
And after he said these (things), he separated from me. But I was full of joy, and I
      wrote this book which was appointed for me, my son Messos, in order that I might disclose
      to you the (things) that were proclaimed before me in my presence. And at first I received
      them in great silence, and I stood by myself, preparing myself. These are the things that
      were disclosed to me, O my son Messos ... 
      (13 lines missing)
      ... proclaim them, O my son Messos, as the seal for all the books of Allogenes. 
This translation was made by John D. Turner and Orval S. Wintermute, excerpted from The Nag Hammadi Library in English edited by James M. Robinson, and transcribed for online publication originally at the Gnostic Society Library (gnosis.org).
