
The Annals of Tacitus











Book 1 - (A.D. 14-15)
[1.1] ROME at the beginning was ruled
by kings. Freedom and the consulship were established by Lucius Brutus.
Dictatorships were held for a temporary crisis. The power of the decemvirs
did not last beyond two years, nor was the consular jurisdiction of the
military tribunes of long duration. The despotisms of Cinna and Sulla were
brief; the rule of Pompeius and of Crassus soon yielded before Caesar;
the arms of Lepidus and Antonius before Augustus; who, when the world was
wearied by civil strife, subjected it to empire under the title of "Prince."
But the successes and reverses of the old Roman people have been recorded
by famous historians; and fine intellects were not wanting to describe
the times of Augustus, till growing sycophancy scared them away. The histories
of Tiberius, Caius, Claudius, and Nero, while they were in power, were
falsified through terror, and after their death were written under the
irritation of a recent hatred. Hence my purpose is to relate a few facts
about Augustus - more particularly his last acts, then the reign of Tiberius,
and all which follows, without either bitterness or partiality, from any
motives to which I am far removed. 
[1.2] When after the destruction of
Brutus and Cassius there was no longer any army of the Commonwealth, when
Pompeius was crushed in Sicily, and when, with Lepidus pushed aside and
Antonius slain, even the Julian faction had only Caesar left to lead it,
then, dropping the title of triumvir, and giving out that he was a Consul,
and was satisfied with a tribune's authority for the protection of the
people, Augustus won over the soldiers with gifts, the populace with cheap
corn, and all men with the sweets of repose, and so grew greater by degrees,
while he concentrated in himself the functions of the Senate, the magistrates,
and the laws. He was wholly unopposed, for the boldest spirits had fallen
in battle, or in the proscription, while the remaining nobles, the readier
they were to be slaves, were raised the higher by wealth and promotion,
so that, aggrandised by revolution, they preferred the safety of the present
to the dangerous past. Nor did the provinces dislike that condition of
affairs, for they distrusted the government of the Senate and the people,
because of the rivalries between the leading men and the rapacity of the
officials, while the protection of the laws was unavailing, as they were
continually deranged by violence, intrigue, and finally by corruption.

[1.3] Augustus meanwhile, as supports
to his despotism, raised to the pontificate and curule aedileship Claudius
Marcellus, his sister's son, while a mere stripling, and Marcus Agrippa,
of humble birth, a good soldier, and one who had shared his victory, to
two consecutive consulships, and as Marcellus soon afterwards died, he
also accepted him as his son-in-law. Tiberius Nero and Claudius Drusus,
his stepsons, he honoured with imperial tides, although his own family
was as yet undiminished. For he had admitted the children of Agrippa, Caius
and Lucius, into the house of the Caesars; and before they had yet laid
aside the dress of boyhood he had most fervently desired, with an outward
show of reluctance, that they should be entitled "princes of the youth,"
and be consuls-elect. When Agrippa died, and Lucius Caesar as he was on
his way to our armies in Spain, and Caius while returning from Armenia,
still suffering from a wound, were prematurely cut off by destiny, or by
their step-mother Livia's treachery, Drusus too having long been dead,
Nero remained alone of the stepsons, and in him everything tended to centre.
He was adopted as a son, as a colleague in empire and a partner in the
tribunitian power, and paraded through all the armies, no longer through
his mother's secret intrigues, but at her open suggestion. For she had
gained such a hold on the aged Augustus that he drove out as an exile into
the island of Planasia, his only grandson, Agrippa Postumus, who, though
devoid of worthy qualities, and having only the brute courage of physical
strength, had not been convicted of any gross offence. And yet Augustus
had appointed Germanicus, Drusus's offspring, to the command of eight legions
on the Rhine, and required Tiberius to adopt him, although Tiberius had
a son, now a young man, in his house; but he did it that he might have
several safeguards to rest on. He had no war at the time on his hands except
against the Germans, which was rather to wipe out the disgrace of the loss
of Quintilius Varus and his army than out of an ambition to extend the
empire, or for any adequate recompense. At home all was tranquil, and there
were magistrates with the same titles; there was a younger generation,
sprung up since the victory of Actium, and even many of the older men had
been born during the civil wars. How few were left who had seen the republic!

[1.4] Thus the State had been revolutionised,
and there was not a vestige left of the old sound morality. Stript of equality,
all looked up to the commands of a sovereign without the least apprehension
for the present, while Augustus in the vigour of life, could maintain his
own position, that of his house, and the general tranquillity. When in
advanced old age, he was worn out by a sickly frame, and the end was near
and new prospects opened, a few spoke in vain of the blessings of freedom,
but most people dreaded and some longed for war. The popular gossip of
the large majority fastened itself variously on their future masters. "Agrippa
was savage, and had been exasperated by insult, and neither from age nor
experience in affairs was equal to so great a burden. Tiberius Nero was
of mature years, and had established his fame in war, but he had the old
arrogance inbred in the Claudian family, and many symptoms of a cruel temper,
though they were repressed, now and then broke out. He had also from earliest
infancy been reared in an imperial house; consulships and triumphs had
been heaped on him in his younger days; even in the years which, on the
pretext of seclusion he spent in exile at Rhodes, he had had no thoughts
but of wrath, hypocrisy, and secret sensuality. There was his mother too
with a woman caprice. They must, it seemed, be subject to a female and
to two striplings besides, who for a while would burden, and some day rend
asunder the State." 
[1.5] While these and like topics were
discussed, the infirmities of Augustus increased, and some suspected guilt
on his wife's part. For a rumour had gone abroad that a few months before
he had sailed to Planasia on a visit to Agrippa, with the knowledge of
some chosen friends, and with one companion, Fabius Maximus; that many
tears were shed on both sides, with expressions of affection, and that
thus there was a hope of the young man being restored to the home of his
grandfather. This, it was said, Maximus had divulged to his wife Marcia,
she again to Livia. All was known to Caesar, and when Maximus soon afterwards
died, by a death some thought to be self-inflicted, there were heard at
his funeral wailings from Marcia, in which she reproached herself for having
been the cause of her husband's destruction. Whatever the fact was, Tiberius
as he was just entering Illyria was summoned home by an urgent letter from
his mother, and it has not been thoroughly ascertained whether at the city
of Nola he found Augustus still breathing or quite lifeless. For Livia
had surrounded the house and its approaches with a strict watch, and favourable
bulletins were published from time to time, till, provision having been
made for the demands of the crisis, one and the same report told men that
Augustus was dead and that Tiberius Nero was master of the State. 
[1.6] The first crime of the new reign
was the murder of Postumus Agrippa. Though he was surprised and unarmed,
a centurion of the firmest resolution despatched him with difficulty. Tiberius
gave no explanation of the matter to the Senate; he pretended that there
were directions from his father ordering the tribune in charge of the prisoner
not to delay the slaughter of Agrippa, whenever he should himself have
breathed his last. Beyond a doubt, Augustus had often complained of the
young man's character, and had thus succeeded in obtaining the sanction
of a decree of the Senate for his banishment. But he never was hard-hearted
enough to destroy any of his kinsfolk, nor was it credible that death was
to be the sentence of the grandson in order that the stepson might feel
secure. It was more probable that Tiberius and Livia, the one from fear,
the other from a stepmother's enmity, hurried on the destruction of a youth
whom they suspected and hated. When the centurion reported, according to
military custom, that he had executed the command, Tiberius replied that
he had not given the command, and that the act must be justified to the
Senate. As soon as Sallustius Crispus who shared the secret (he had, in
fact, sent the written order to the tribune) knew this, fearing that the
charge would be shifted on himself, and that his peril would be the same
whether he uttered fiction or truth, he advised Livia not to divulge the
secrets of her house or the counsels of friends, or any services performed
by the soldiers, nor to let Tiberius weaken the strength of imperial power
by referring everything to the Senate, for "the condition," he
said, "of holding empire is that an account cannot be balanced unless
it be rendered to one person." 
[1.7] Meanwhile at Rome people plunged
into slavery - consuls, senators, knights. The higher a man's rank, the
more eager his hypocrisy, and his looks the more carefully studied, so
as neither to betray joy at the decease of one emperor nor sorrow at the
rise of another, while he mingled delight and lamentations with his flattery.
Sextus Pompeius and Sextus Apuleius, the consuls, were the first to swear
allegiance to Tiberius Caesar, and in their presence the oath was taken
by Seius Strabo and Caius Turranius, respectively the commander of the
praetorian cohorts and the superintendent of the corn supplies. Then the
Senate, the soldiers and the people did the same. For Tiberius would inaugurate
everything with the consuls, as though the ancient constitution remained,
and he hesitated about being emperor. Even the proclamation by which he
summoned the senators to their chamber, he issued merely with the title
of Tribune, which he had received under Augustus. The wording of the proclamation
was brief, and in a very modest tone. "He would," it said, "provide
for the honours due to his father, and not leave the lifeless body, and
this was the only public duty he now claimed." As soon, however, as
Augustus was dead, he had given the watchword to the praetorian cohorts,
as commander-in-chief. He had the guard under arms, with all the other
adjuncts of a court; soldiers attended him to the forum; soldiers went
with him to the Senate House. He sent letters to the different armies,
as though supreme power was now his, and showed hesitation only when he
spoke in the Senate. His chief motive was fear that Germanicus, who had
at his disposal so many legions, such vast auxiliary forces of the allies,
and such wonderful popularity, might prefer the possession to the expectation
of empire. He looked also at public opinion, wishing to have the credit
of having been called and elected by the State rather than of having crept
into power through the intrigues of a wife and a dotard's adoption. It
was subsequently understood that he assumed a wavering attitude, to test
likewise the temper of the nobles. For he would twist a word or a look
into a crime and treasure it up in his memory. 
[1.8] On the first day of the Senate
he allowed nothing to be discussed but the funeral of Augustus, whose will,
which was brought in by the Vestal Virgins, named as his heirs Tiberius
and Livia. The latter was to be admitted into the Julian family with the
name of Augusta; next in expectation were the grand and great-grandchildren.
In the third place, he had named the chief men of the State, most of whom
he hated, simply out of ostentation and to win credit with posterity. His
legacies were not beyond the scale of a private citizen, except a bequest
of forty-three million five hundred thousand sesterces "to the people
and populace of Rome," of one thousand to every praetorian soldier,
and of three hundred to every man in the legionary cohorts composed of
Roman citizens. Next followed a deliberation about funeral honours. Of
these the most imposing were thought fitting. The procession was to be
conducted through "the gate of triumph," on the motion of Gallus
Asinius; the titles of the laws passed, the names of the nations conquered
by Augustus were to be borne in front, on that of Lucius Arruntius. Messala
Valerius further proposed that the oath of allegiance to Tiberius should
be yearly renewed, and when Tiberius asked him whether it was at his bidding
that he had brought forward this motion, he replied that he had proposed
it spontaneously, and that in whatever concerned the State he would use
only his own discretion, even at the risk of offending. This was the only
style of adulation which yet remained. The Senators unanimously exclaimed
that the body ought to be borne on their shoulders to the funeral pile.
The emperor left the point to them with disdainful moderation, he then
admonished the people by a proclamation not to indulge in that tumultuous
enthusiasm which had distracted the funeral of the Divine Julius, or express
a wish that Augustus should be burnt in the Forum instead of in his appointed
resting-place in the Campus Martius. On the day of the funeral soldiers
stood round as a guard, amid much ridicule from those who had either themselves
witnessed or who had heard from their parents of the famous day when slavery
was still something fresh, and freedom had been resought in vain, when
the slaying of Caesar, the Dictator, seemed to some the vilest, to others,
the most glorious of deeds. "Now," they said, "an aged sovereign,
whose power had lasted long, who had provided his heirs with abundant means
to coerce the State, requires forsooth the defence of soldiers that his
burial may be undisturbed." 
[1.9] Then followed much talk about
Augustus himself, and many expressed an idle wonder that the same day marked
the beginning of his assumption of empire and the close of his life, and,
again, that he had ended his days at Nola in the same house and room as
his father Octavius. People extolled too the number of his consulships,
in which he had equalled Valerius Corvus and Caius Marius combined, the
continuance for thirty-seven years of the tribunitian power, the title
of Imperator twenty-one times earned, and his other honours which had either
frequently repeated or were wholly new. Sensible men, however, spoke variously
of his life with praise and censure. Some said "that dutiful feeling
towards a father, and the necessities of the State in which laws had then
no place, drove him into civil war, which can neither be planned nor conducted
on any right principles. He had often yielded to Antonius, while he was
taking vengeance on his father's murderers, often also to Lepidus. When
the latter sank into feeble dotage and the former had been ruined by his
profligacy, the only remedy for his distracted country was the rule of
a single man. Yet the State had been organized under the name neither of
a kingdom nor a dictatorship, but under that of a prince. The ocean and
remote rivers were the boundaries of the empire; the legions, provinces,
fleets, all things were linked together; there was law for the citizens;
there was respect shown to the allies. The capital had been embellished
on a grand scale; only in a few instances had he resorted to force, simply
to secure general tranquillity." 
[1.10] It was said, on the other hand,
"that filial duty and State necessity were merely assumed as a mask.
It was really from a lust of sovereignty that he had excited the veterans
by bribery, had, when a young man and a subject, raised an army, tampered
with the Consul's legions, and feigned an attachment to the faction of
Pompeius. Then, when by a decree of the Senate he had usurped the high
functions and authority of Praetor when Hirtius and Pansa were slain -
whether they were destroyed by the enemy, or Pansa by poison infused into
a wound, Hirtius by his own soldiers and Caesar's treacherous machinations
- he at once possessed himself of both their armies, wrested the consulate
from a reluctant Senate, and turned against the State the arms with which
he had been intrusted against Antonius. Citizens were proscribed, lands
divided, without so much as the approval of those who executed these deeds.
Even granting that the deaths of Cassius and of the Bruti were sacrifices
to a hereditary enmity (though duty requires us to waive private feuds
for the sake of the public welfare), still Pompeius had been deluded by
the phantom of peace, and Lepidus by the mask of friendship. Subsequently,
Antonius had been lured on by the treaties of Tarentum and Brundisium,
and by his marriage with the sister, and paid by his death the penalty
of a treacherous alliance. No doubt, there was peace after all this, but
it was a peace stained with blood; there were the disasters of Lollius
and Varus, the murders at Rome of the Varros, Egnatii, and Juli."
The domestic life too of Augustus was not spared. "Nero's wife had
been taken from him, and there had been the farce of consulting the pontiffs,
whether, with a child conceived and not yet born, she could properly marry.
There were the excesses of Quintus Tedius and Vedius Pollio; last of all,
there was Livia, terrible to the State as a mother, terrible to the house
of the Caesars as a stepmother. No honour was left for the gods, when Augustus
chose to be himself worshipped with temples and statues, like those of
the deities, and with flamens and priests. He had not even adopted Tiberius
as his successor out of affection or any regard to the State, but, having
thoroughly seen his arrogant and savage temper, he had sought glory for
himself by a contrast of extreme wickedness." For, in fact, Augustus,
a few years before, when he was a second time asking from the Senate the
tribunitian power for Tiberius, though his speech was complimentary, had
thrown out certain hints as to his manners, style, and habits of life,
which he meant as reproaches, while he seemed to excuse. However, when
his obsequies had been duly performed, a temple with a religious ritual
was decreed him. 
[1.11] After this all prayers were
addressed to Tiberius. He, on his part, urged various considerations, the
greatness of the empire, his distrust of himself. "Only," he
said, "the intellect of the Divine Augustus was equal to such a burden.
Called as he had been by him to share his anxieties, he had learnt by experience
how exposed to fortune's caprices was the task of universal rule. Consequently,
in a state which had the support of so many great men, they should not
put everything on one man, as many, by uniting their efforts would more
easily discharge public functions." There was more grand sentiment
than good faith in such words. Tiberius's language even in matters which
he did not care to conceal, either from nature or habit, was always hesitating
and obscure, and now that he was struggling to hide his feelings completely,
it was all the more involved in uncertainty and doubt. The Senators, however,
whose only fear was lest they might seem to understand him, burst into
complaints, tears, and prayers. They raised their hands to the gods, to
the statue of Augustus, and to the knees of Tiberius, when he ordered a
document to be produced and read. This contained a description of the resources
of the State, of the number of citizens and allies under arms, of the fleets,
subject kingdoms, provinces, taxes, direct and indirect, necessary expenses
and customary bounties. All these details Augustus had written with his
own hand, and had added a counsel, that the empire should be confined to
its present limits, either from fear or out of jealousy. 
[1.12] Meantime, while the Senate stooped
to the most abject supplication, Tiberius happened to say that although
he was not equal to the whole burden of the State, yet he would undertake
the charge of whatever part of it might be intrusted to him. Thereupon
Asinius Gallus said, "I ask you, Caesar, what part of the State you
wish to have intrusted to you?" Confounded by the sudden inquiry he
was silent for a few moments; then, recovering his presence of mind, he
replied that it would by no means become his modesty to choose or to avoid
in a case where he would prefer to be wholly excused. Then Gallus again,
who had inferred anger from his looks, said that the question had not been
asked with the intention of dividing what could not be separated, but to
convince him by his own admission that the body of the State was one, and
must be directed by a single mind. He further spoke in praise of Augustus,
and reminded Tiberius himself of his victories, and of his admirable deeds
for many years as a civilian. Still, he did not thereby soften the emperor's
resentment, for he had long been detested from an impression that, as he
had married Vipsania, daughter of Marcus Agrippa, who had once been the
wife of Tiberius, he aspired to be more than a citizen, and kept up the
arrogant tone of his father, Asinius Pollio. 
[1.13] Next, Lucius Arruntius, who
differed but little from the speech of Gallus, gave like offence, though
Tiberius had no old grudge against him, but simply mistrusted him, because
he was rich and daring, had brilliant accomplishments, and corresponding
popularity. For Augustus, when in his last conversations he was discussing
who would refuse the highest place, though sufficiently capable, who would
aspire to it without being equal to it, and who would unite both the ability
and ambition, had described Marcus Lepidus as able but contemptuously indifferent,
Gallus Asinius as ambitious and incapable, Lucius Arruntius as not unworthy
of it, and, should the chance be given him, sure to make the venture. About
the two first there is a general agreement, but instead of Arruntius some
have mentioned Cneius Piso, and all these men, except Lepidus, were soon
afterwards destroyed by various charges through the contrivance of Tiberius.
Quintus Haterius too and Mamercus Scaurus ruffled his suspicious temper,
Haterius by having said - "How long, Caesar, will you suffer the State
to be without a head?" Scaurus by the remark that there was a hope
that the Senate's prayers would not be fruitless, seeing that he had not
used his right as Tribune to negative the motion of the Consuls. Tiberius
instantly broke out into invective against Haterius; Scaurus, with whom
he was far more deeply displeased, he passed over in silence. Wearied at
last by the assembly's clamorous importunity and the urgent demands of
individual Senators, he gave way by degrees, not admitting that he undertook
empire, but yet ceasing to refuse it and to be entreated. It is known that
Haterius having entered the palace to ask pardon, and thrown himself at
the knees of Tiberius as he was walking, was almost killed by the soldiers,
because Tiberius fell forward, accidentally or from being entangled by
the suppliant's hands. Yet the peril of so great a man did not make him
relent, till Haterius went with entreaties to Augusta, and was saved by
her very earnest intercessions. 
[1.14] Great too was the Senate's sycophancy
to Augusta. Some would have her styled "parent"; others "mother
of the country," and a majority proposed that to the name of Caesar
should be added "son of Julia." The emperor repeatedly asserted
that there must be a limit to the honours paid to women, and that he would
observe similar moderation in those bestowed on himself, but annoyed at
the invidious proposal, and indeed regarding a woman's elevation as a slight
to himself, he would not allow so much as a lictor to be assigned her,
and forbade the erection of an altar in memory of her adoption, and any
like distinction. But for Germanicus Caesar he asked pro-consular powers,
and envoys were despatched to confer them on him, and also to express sympathy
with his grief at the death of Augustus. The same request was not made
for Drusus, because he was consul elect and present at Rome. Twelve candidates
were named for the praetorship, the number which Augustus had handed down,
and when the Senate urged Tiberius to increase it, he bound himself by
an oath not to exceed it. 
[1.15] It was then for the first time
that the elections were transferred from the Campus Martius to the Senate.
For up to that day, though the most important rested with the emperor's
choice, some were settled by the partialities of the tribes. Nor did the
people complain of having the right taken from them, except in mere idle
talk, and the Senate, being now released from the necessity of bribery
and of degrading solicitations, gladly upheld the change, Tiberius confining
himself to the recommendation of only four candidates who were to be nominated
without rejection or canvass. Meanwhile the tribunes of the people asked
leave to exhibit at their own expense games to be named after Augustus
and added to the Calendar as the Augustales. Money was, however, voted
from the exchequer, and though the use of the triumphal robe in the circus
was prescribed, it was not allowed them to ride in a chariot. Soon the
annual celebration was transferred to the praetor, to whose lot fell the
administration of justice between citizens and foreigners. 
[1.16] This was the state of affairs
at Rome when a mutiny broke out in the legions of Pannonia, which could
be traced to no fresh cause except the change of emperors and the prospect
it held out of license in tumult and of profit from a civil war. In the
summer camp three legions were quartered, under the command of Junius Blaesus,
who on hearing of the death of Augustus and the accession of Tiberius,
had allowed his men a rest from military duties, either for mourning or
rejoicing. This was the beginning of demoralization among the troops, of
quarreling, of listening to the talk of every pestilent fellow, in short,
of craving for luxury and idleness and loathing discipline and toil. In
the camp was one Percennius, who had once been a leader of one of the theatrical
factions, then became a common soldier, had a saucy tongue, and had learnt
from his applause of actors how to stir up a crowd. By working on ignorant
minds, which doubted as to what would be the terms of military service
after Augustus, this man gradually influenced them in conversations at
night or at nightfall, and when the better men had dispersed, he gathered
round him all the worst spirits. 
[1.17] At last, when there were others
ready to be abettors of a mutiny, he asked, in the tone of a demagogue,
why, like slaves, they submitted to a few centurions and still fewer tribunes.
"When," he said, "will you dare to demand relief, if you
do not go with your prayers or arms to a new and yet tottering throne?
We have blundered enough by our tameness for so many years, in having to
endure thirty or forty campaigns till we grow old, most of us with bodies
maimed by wounds. Even dismissal is not the end of our service, but, quartered
under a legion's standard we toil through the same hardships under another
title. If a soldier survives so many risks, he is still dragged into remote
regions where, under the name of lands, he receives soaking swamps or mountainous
wastes. Assuredly, military service itself is burdensome and unprofitable;
ten ases a day is the value set on life and limb; out of this, clothing,
arms, tents, as well as the mercy of centurions and exemptions from duty
have to be purchased. But indeed of floggings and wounds, of hard winters,
wearisome summers, of terrible war, or barren peace, there is no end. Our
only relief can come from military life being entered on under fixed conditions,
from receiving each the pay of a denarius, and from the sixteenth year
terminating our service. We must be retained no longer under a standard,
but in the same camp a compensation in money must be paid us. Do the praetorian
cohorts, which have just got their two denarii per man, and which after
sixteen years are restored to their homes, encounter more perils? We do
not disparage the guards of the capital; still, here amid barbarous tribes
we have to face the enemy from our tents." 
[1.18] The throng applauded from various
motives, some pointing with indignation to the marks of the lash, others
to their grey locks, and most of them to their threadbare garments and
naked limbs. At, last, in their fury they went so far as to propose to
combine the three legions into one. Driven from their purpose by the jealousy
with which every one sought the chief honour for his own legion, they turned
to other thoughts, and set up in one spot the three eagles, with the ensigns
of the cohorts. At the same time they piled up turf and raised a mound,
that they might have a more conspicuous meeting-place. Amid the bustle
Blaesus came up. He upbraided them and held back man after man with the
exclamation, "Better imbrue your hands in my blood: it will be less
guilt to slay your commander than it is to be in revolt from the emperor.
Either living I will uphold the loyalty of the legions, or pierced to the
heart I will hasten on your repentance." 
[1.19] None the less however was the
mound piled up, and it was quite breast high when, at last overcome by
his persistency, they gave up their purpose. Blaesus, with the consummate
tact of an orator, said, "It is not through mutiny and tumult that
the desires of the army ought to be communicated to Caesar, nor did our
soldiers of old ever ask so novel a boon of ancient commanders, nor have
you yourselves asked it of the Divine Augustus. It is far from opportune
that the emperor's cares, now in their first beginning, should be aggravated.
If, however, you are bent upon attempting in peace what even after your
victory in the civil wars you did not demand, why, contrary to the habit
of obedience, contrary to the law of discipline, do you meditate violence?
Decide on sending envoys, and give them instructions in your presence."
It was carried by acclamation that the son of Blaesus, one of the tribunes,
should undertake the mission, and demand for the soldiers release from
service after sixteen years. He was to have the rest of their message when
the first part had been successful. After the young man departure there
was comparative quiet, but there was an arrogant tone among the soldiers,
to whom the fact that their commander's son was pleading their common cause
clearly showed that they had wrested by compulsion what they had failed
to obtain by good behaviour. 
[1.20] Meanwhile the companies which
previous to the mutiny had been sent to Nauportus to make roads and bridges
and for other purposes, when they heard of the tumult in the camp, tore
up the standards, and having plundered the neighbouring villages and Nauportus
itself, which was like a town, assailed the centurions who restrained them
with jeers and insults, last of all, with blows. Their chief rage was against
Aufidienus Rufus, the camp-prefect, whom they dragged from a waggon, loaded
with baggage, and drove on at the head of the column, asking him in ridicule
whether he liked to bear such huge burdens and such long marches. Rufus,
who had long been a common soldier, then a centurion, and subsequently
camp-prefect, tried to revive the old severe discipline, inured as he was
to work and toil, and all the sterner because he had endured. 
[1.21] On the arrival of these troops
the mutiny broke out afresh, and straggling from the camp they plundered
the neighbourhood. Blaesus ordered a few who had conspicuously loaded themselves
with spoil to be scourged and imprisoned as a terror to the rest; for,
even as it then was, the commander was still obeyed by the centurions and
by all the best men among the soldiers. As the men were dragged off, they
struggled violently, clasped the knees of the bystanders, called to their
comrades by name, or to the company, cohort, or legion to which they respectively
belonged, exclaiming that all were threatened with the same fate. At the
same time they heaped abuse on the commander; they appealed to heaven and
to the gods, and left nothing undone by which they might excite resentment
and pity, alarm and rage. They all rushed to the spot, broke open the guardhouse,
unbound the prisoners, and were in a moment fraternising with deserters
and men convicted on capital charges. 
[1.22] Thence arose a more furious
outbreak, with more leaders of the mutiny. Vibulenus, a common soldier,
was hoisted in front of the general's tribunal on the shoulders of the
bystanders and addressed the excited throng, who eagerly awaited his intentions.
"You have indeed," he said, "restored light and air to these
innocent and most unhappy men, but who restores to my brother his life,
or my brother to myself? Sent to you by the German army in our common cause,
he was last night butchered by the gladiators whom the general keeps and
arms for the destruction of his soldiers. Answer, Blaesus, where you have
flung aside the corpse? Even an enemy grudges not burial. When, with embraces
and tears, I have sated my grief, order me also to be slain, provided only
that when we have been destroyed for no crime, but only because we consulted
the good of the legions, we may be buried by these men around me."

[1.23] He inflamed their excitement
by weeping and smiting his breast and face with his hands. Then, hurling
aside those who bore him on their shoulders, and impetuously flinging himself
at the feet of one man after another, he roused such dismay and indignation
that some of the soldiers put fetters on the gladiators who were among
the number of Blaesus's slaves, others did the like to the rest of his
household, while a third party hurried out to look for the corpse. And
had it not quickly been known that no corpse was found, that the slaves,
when tortures were applied, denied the murder, and that the man never had
a brother, they would have been on the point of destroying the general.
As it was, they thrust out the tribunes and the camp-prefect; they plundered
the baggage of the fugitives, and they killed a centurion, Lucilius, to
whom, with soldiers' humour, they had given the name "Bring another,"
because when he had broken one vine-stick on a man's back, he would call
in a loud voice for another and another. The rest sheltered themselves
in concealment, and one only was detained, Clemens Julius, whom the soldiers
considered a fit person to carry messages, from his ready wit. Two legions,
the eighth and the fifteenth, were actually drawing swords against each
other, the former demanding the death of a centurion, whom they nicknamed
Sirpicus, while the men of the fifteenth defended him, but the soldiers
of the ninth interposed their entreaties, and when these were disregarded,
their menaces. 
[1.24] This intelligence had such an
effect on Tiberius, close as he was, and most careful to hush up every
very serious disaster, that he despatched his son Drusus with the leading
men of the State and with two praetorian cohorts, without any definite
instructions, to take suitable measures. The cohorts were strengthened
beyond their usual force with some picked troops. There was in addition
a considerable part of the Praetorian cavalry, and the flower of the German
soldiery, which was then the emperor's guard. With them too was the commander
of the praetorians, Aelius Sejanus, who had been associated with his own
father, Strabo, had great influence with Tiberius, and was to advise and
direct the young prince, and to hold out punishment or reward to the soldiers.
When Drusus approached, the legions, as a mark of respect, met him, not
as usual, with glad looks or the glitter of military decorations, but in
unsightly squalor, and faces which, though they simulated grief, rather
expressed defiance. 
[1.25] As soon as he entered the entrenchments,
they secured the gates with sentries, and ordered bodies of armed men to
be in readiness at certain points of the camp. The rest crowded round the
general's tribunal in a dense mass. Drusus stood there, and with a gesture
of his hand demanded silence. As often as they turned their eyes back on
the throng, they broke into savage exclamations, then looking up to Drusus
they trembled. There was a confused hum, a fierce shouting, and a sudden
lull. Urged by conflicting emotions, they felt panic and they caused the
like. At last, in an interval of the uproar, Drusus read his father's letter,
in which it was fully stated that he had a special care for the brave legions
with which he had endured a number of campaigns; that, as soon as his mind
had recovered from its grief, he would lay their demands before the Senators;
that meanwhile he had sent his son to concede unhesitatingly what could
be immediately granted, and that the rest must be reserved for the Senate,
which ought to have a voice in showing either favour or severity. 
[1.26] The crowd replied that they
had delivered their instructions to Clemens, one of the centurions, which
he was to convey to Rome. He began to speak of the soldiers' discharge
after sixteen years, of the rewards of completed service, of the daily
pay being a denarius, and of the veterans not being detained under a standard.
When Drusus pleaded in answer reference to the Senate and to his father,
he was interrupted by a tumultuous shout. "Why had he come, neither
to increase the soldiers' pay, nor to alleviate their hardships, in a word,
with no power to better their lot? Yet heaven knew that all were allowed
to scourge and to execute. Tiberius used formerly in the name of Augustus
to frustrate the wishes of the legions, and the same tricks were now revived
by Drusus. Was it only sons who were to visit them? Certainly, it was a
new thing for the emperor to refer to the Senate merely what concerned
the soldier's interests. Was then the same Senate to be consulted whenever
notice was given of an execution or of a battle? Were their rewards to
be at the discretion of absolute rulers, their punishments to be without
appeal?" 
[1.27] At last they deserted the general's
tribunal, and to any praetorian soldier or friend of Caesar's who met them,
they used those threatening gestures which are the cause of strife and
the beginning of a conflict, with special rage against Cneius Lentulus,
because they thought that he above all others, by his age and warlike renown,
encouraged Drusus, and was the first to scorn such blots on military discipline.
Soon after, as he was leaving with Drusus to betake himself in foresight
of his danger to the winter camp, they surrounded him, and asked him again
and again whither he was going; was it to the emperor or to the Senate,
there also to oppose the interests of the legions. At the same moment they
menaced him savagely and flung stones. And now, bleeding from a blow, and
feeling destruction certain, he was rescued by the hurried arrival of the
throng which had accompanied Drusus. 
[1.28] That terrible night which threatened
an explosion of crime was tranquillised by a mere accident. Suddenly in
a clear sky the moon's radiance seemed to die away. This the soldiers in
their ignorance of the cause regarded as an omen of their condition, comparing
the failure of her light to their own efforts, and imagining that their
attempts would end prosperously should her brightness and splendour be
restored to the goddess. And so they raised a din with brazen instruments
and the combined notes of trumpets and horns, with joy or sorrow, as she
brightened or grew dark. When clouds arose and obstructed their sight,
and it was thought she was buried in the gloom, with that proneness to
superstition which steals over minds once thoroughly cowed, they lamented
that this was a portent of never-ending hardship, and that heaven frowned
on their deeds. Drusus, thinking that he ought to avail himself of this
change in their temper and turn what chance had offered to a wise account,
ordered the tents to be visited. Clemens, the centurion was summoned with
all others who for their good qualities were liked by the common soldiers.
These men made their way among the patrols, sentries and guards of the
camp-gates, suggesting hope or holding out threats. "How long will
you besiege the emperor's son? What is to be the end of our strifes? Will
Percennius and Vibulenus give pay to the soldiers and land to those who
have earned their discharge? In a word, are they, instead of the Neros
and the Drusi, to control the empire of the Roman people? Why are we not
rather first in our repentance as we were last in the offence? Demands
made in common are granted slowly; a separate favour you may deserve and
receive at the same moment." With minds affected by these words and
growing mutually suspicious, they divided off the new troops from the old,
and one legion from another. Then by degrees the instinct of obedience
returned. They quitted the gates and restored to their places the standards
which at the beginning of the mutiny they had grouped into one spot. 
[1.29] At daybreak Drusus called them
to an assembly, and, though not a practised speaker, yet with natural dignity
upbraided them for their past and commended their present behaviour. He
was not, he said, to be conquered by terror or by threats. Were he to see
them inclining to submission and hear the language of entreaty, he would
write to his father, that he might be merciful and receive the legions'
petition. At their prayer, Blaesus and Lucius Apronius, a Roman knight
on Drusus's staff, with Justus Catonius, a first-rank centurion, were again
sent to Tiberius. Then ensued a conflict of opinion among them, some maintaining
that it was best to wait the envoys' return and meanwhile humour the soldiers,
others, that stronger measures ought to be used, inasmuch as the rabble
knows no mean, and inspires fear, unless they are afraid, though when they
have once been overawed, they can be safely despised. "While superstition
still swayed them, the general should apply terror by removing the leaders
of the mutiny." Drusus's temper was inclined to harsh measures. He
summoned Vibulenus and Percennius and ordered them to be put to death.
The common account is that they were buried in the general's tent, though
according to some their bodies were flung outside the entrenchments for
all to see. 
[1.30] Search was then made for all
the chief mutineers. Some as they roamed outside the camp were cut down
by the centurions or by soldiers of the praetorian cohorts. Some even the
companies gave up in proof of their loyalty. The men's troubles were increased
by an early winter with continuous storms so violent that they could not
go beyond their tents or meet together or keep the standards in their places,
from which they were perpetually tom by hurricane and rain. And there still
lingered the dread of the divine wrath; nor was it without meaning, they
thought, that, hostile to an impious host, the stars grew dim and storms
burst over them. Their only relief from misery was to quit an ill-omened
and polluted camp, and, having purged themselves of their guilt, to betake
themselves again every one to his winterquarters. First the eighth, then
the fifteenth legion returned; the ninth cried again and again that they
ought to wait for the letter from Tiberius, but soon finding themselves
isolated by the departure of the rest, they voluntarily forestalled their
inevitable fate. Drusus, without awaiting the envoys' return, as for the
present all was quiet, went back to Rome. 
[1.31] About the same time, from the
same causes, the legions of Germany rose in mutiny, with a fury proportioned
to their greater numbers, in the confident hope that Germanicus Caesar
would not be able to endure another's supremacy and offer himself to the
legions, whose strength would carry everything before it. There were two
armies on the bank of the Rhine; that named the upper army had Caius Silius
for general; the lower was under the charge of Aulus Caecina. The supreme
direction rested with Germanicus, then busily employed in conducting the
assessment of Gaul. The troops under the control of Silius, with minds
yet in suspense, watched the issue of mutiny elsewhere; but the soldiers
of the lower army fell into a frenzy, which had its beginning in the men
of the twenty-first and fifth legions, and into which the first and twentieth
were also drawn. For they were all quartered in the same summer-camp, in
the territory of the Ubii, enjoying ease or having only light duties. Accordingly
on hearing of the death of Augustus, a rabble of city slaves, who had been
enlisted under a recent levy at Rome, habituated to laxity and impatient
of hardship, filled the ignorant minds of the other soldiers with notions
that the time had come when the veteran might demand a timely discharge,
the young, more liberal pay, all, an end of their miseries, and vengeance
on the cruelty of centurions. It was not one alone who spoke thus, as did
Percennius among the legions of Pannonia, nor was it in the ears of trembling
soldiers, who looked with apprehension to other and mightier armies, but
there was sedition in many a face and voice. "The Roman world,"
they said, was in their hand; their victories aggrandised the State; it
was from them that emperors received their titles." 
[1.32] Nor did their commander check
them. Indeed, the blind rage of so many had robbed him of his resolution.,
In a sudden frenzy they rushed with drawn swords on the centurions, the
immemorial object of the soldiers' resentment and the first cause of savage
fury. They threw them to the earth and beat them sorely, sixty to one,
so as to correspond with the number of centurions. Then tearing them from
the ground, mangled, and some lifeless, they flung them outside the entrenchments
or into the river Rhine. One Septimius, who fled to the tribunal and was
grovelling at Caecina's feet, was persistently demanded till he was given
up to destruction. Cassius Chaerea, who won for himself a memory with posterity
by the murder of Caius Caesar, being then a youth of high spirit, cleared
a passage with his sword through the armed and opposing throng. Neither
tribune nor camp-prefect maintained authority any longer. Patrols, sentries,
and whatever else the needs of the time required, were distributed by the
men themselves. To those who could guess the temper of soldiers with some
penetration, the strongest symptom of a wide-spread and intractable commotion,
was the fact that, instead of being divided or instigated by a few persons,
they were unanimous in their fury and equally unanimous in their composure,
with so uniform a consistency that one would have thought them to be under
command. 
[1.33] Meantime Germanicus, while,
as I have related, he was collecting the taxes of Gaul, received news of
the death of Augustus. He was married to the granddaughter of Augustus,
Agrippina, by whom he had several children, and though he was himself the
son of Drusus, brother of Tiberius, and grandson of Augusta, he was troubled
by the secret hatred of his uncle and grandmother, the motives for which
were the more venomous because unjust. For the memory of Drusus was held
in honour by the Roman people, and they believed that had he obtained empire,
he would have restored freedom. Hence they regarded Germanicus with favour
and with the same hope. He was indeed a young man of unaspiring temper,
and of wonderful kindliness, contrasting strongly with the proud and mysterious
reserve that marked the conversation and the features of Tiberius. Then,
there were feminine jealousies, Livia feeling a stepmother's bitterness
towards Agrippina, and Agrippina herself too being rather excitable, only
her purity and love of her husband gave a right direction to her otherwise
imperious disposition. 
[1.34] But the nearer Germanicus was
to the highest hope, the more laboriously did he exert himself for Tiberius,
and he made the neighbouring Sequani and all the Belgic states swear obedience
to him. On hearing of the mutiny in the legions, he instantly went to the
spot, and met them outside the camp, eyes fixed on the ground, and seemingly
repentant. As soon as he entered the entrenchments, confused murmurs became
audible. Some men, seizing his hand under pretence of kissing it, thrust
his fingers into their mouths, that he might touch their toothless gums;
others showed him their limbs bowed with age. He ordered the throng which
stood near him, as it seemed a promiscuous gathering, to separate itself
into its military companies. They replied that they would hear better as
they were. The standards were then to be advanced, so that thus at least
the cohorts might be distinguished. The soldiers obeyed reluctantly. Then
beginning with a reverent mention of Augustus, he passed on to the victories
and triumphs of Tiberius, dwelling with especial praise on his glorious
achievements with those legions in Germany. Next, he extolled the unity
of Italy, the loyalty of Gaul, the entire absence of turbulence or strife.
He was heard in silence or with but a slight murmur. 
[1.35] As soon as he touched on the
mutiny and asked what had become of soldierly obedience, of the glory of
ancient discipline, whither they had driven their tribunes and centurions,
they all bared their bodies and taunted him with the scars of their wounds
and the marks of the lash. And then with confused exclamations they spoke
bitterly of the prices of exemptions, of their scanty pay, of the severity
of their tasks, with special mention of the entrenchment, the fosse, the
conveyance of fodder, building-timber, firewood, and whatever else had
to be procured from necessity, or as a check on idleness in the camp. The
fiercest clamour arose from the veteran soldiers, who, as they counted
their thirty campaigns or more, implored him to relieve worn-out men, and
not let them die under the same hardships, but have an end of such harassing
service, and repose without beggary. Some even claimed the legacy of the
Divine Augustus, with words of good omen for Germanicus, and, should he
wish for empire, they showed themselves abundantly willing. Thereupon,
as though he were contracting the pollution of guilt, he leapt impetuously
from the tribunal. The men opposed his departure with their weapons, threatening
him repeatedly if he would not go back. But Germanicus protesting that
he would die rather than cast off his loyalty, plucked his sword from his
side, raised it aloft and was plunging it into his breast, when those nearest
him seized his hand and held it by force. The remotest and most densely
crowded part of the throng, and, what almost passes belief, some, who came
close up to him, urged him to strike the blow, and a soldier, by name Calusidius,
offered him a drawn sword, saying that it was sharper than his own. Even
in their fury, this seemed to them a savage act and one of evil precedent,
and there was a pause during which Caesar's friends hurried him into his
tent. 
[1.36] There they took counsel how
to heal matters. For news was also brought that the soldiers were preparing
the despatch of envoys who were to draw the upper army into their cause;
that the capital of the Ubii was marked out for destruction, and that hands
with the stain of plunder on them would soon be daring enough for the pillage
of Gaul. The alarm was heightened by the knowledge that the enemy was aware
of the Roman mutiny, and would certainly attack if the Rhine bank were
undefended. Yet if the auxiliary troops and allies were to be armed against
the retiring legions, civil war was in fact begun. Severity would be dangerous;
profuse liberality would be scandalous. Whether all or nothing were conceded
to the soldiery, the State was equally in jeopardy. Accordingly, having
weighed their plans one against each other, they decided that a letter
should be written in the prince's name, to the effect that full discharge
was granted to those who had served in twenty campaigns; that there was
a conditional release for those who had served sixteen, and that they were
to be retained under a standard with immunity from everything except actually
keeping off the enemy; that the legacies which they had asked, were to
be paid and doubled. 
[1.37] The soldiers perceived that
all this was invented for the occasion, and instantly pressed their demands.
The discharge from service was quickly arranged by the tribunes. Payment
was put off till they reached their respective winterquarters. The men
of the fifth and twenty-first legions refused to go till in the summer-camp
where they stood the money was made up out of the purses of Germanicus
himself and his friends, and paid in full. The first and twentieth legions
were led back by their officer Caecina to the canton of the Ubii, marching
in disgrace, since sums of money which had been extorted from the general
were carried among the eagles and standards. Germanicus went to the Upper
Army, and the second, thirteenth, and sixteenth legions, without any delay,
accepted from him the oath of allegiance. The fourteenth hesitated a little,
but their money and the discharge were offered even without their demanding
it. 
[1.38] Meanwhile there was an outbreak
among the Chauci, begun by some veterans of the mutinous legions on garrison
duty. They were quelled for a time by the instant execution of two soldiers.
Such was the order of Mennius, the camp-prefect, more as a salutary warning
than as a legal act. Then, when the commotion increased, he fled and having
been discovered, as his hiding place was now unsafe, he borrowed a resource
from audacity. "It was not," he told them, "the camp-prefect,
it was Germanicus, their general, it was Tiberius, their emperor, whom
they were insulting." At the same moment, overawing all resistance,
he seized the standard, faced round towards the river-bank, and exclaiming
that whoever left the ranks, he would hold as a deserter, he led them back
into their winter-quarters, disaffected indeed, but cowed. 
[1.39] Meanwhile envoys from the Senate
had an interview with Germanicus, who had now returned, at the Altar of
the Ubii. Two legions, the first and twentieth, with veterans discharged
and serving under a standard, were there in winter-quarters. In the bewilderment
of terror and conscious guilt they were penetrated by an apprehension that
persons had come at the Senate's orders to cancel the concessions they
had extorted by mutiny. And as it is the way with a mob to fix any charge,
however groundless, on some particular person, they reproached Manatius
Plancus, an ex-consul and the chief envoy, with being the author of the
Senate's decree. At midnight they began to demand the imperial standard
kept in Germanicus's quarters, and having rushed together to the entrance,
burst the door, dragged Caesar from his bed, and forced him by menaces
of death to give up the standard. Then roaming through the camp-streets,
they met the envoys, who on hearing of the tumult were hastening to Germanicus.
They loaded them with insults, and were on the point of murdering them,
Plancus especially, whose high rank had deterred him from flight. In his
peril he found safety only in the camp of the first legion. There clasping
the standards and the eagle, he sought to protect himself under their sanctity.
And had not the eagle-bearer, Calpurnius, saved him from the worst violence,
the blood of an envoy of the Roman people, an occurrence rare even among
our foes, would in a Roman camp have stained the altars of the gods. At
last, with the light of day, when the general and the soldiers and the
whole affair were clearly recognised, Germanicus entered the camp, ordered
Plancus to be conducted to him, and received him on the tribunal. He then
upbraided them with their fatal infatuation, revived not so much by the
anger of the soldiers as by that of heaven, and explained the reasons of
the envoys' arrival. On the rights of ambassadors, on the dreadful and
undeserved peril of Plancus, and also on the disgrace into which the legion
had brought itself, he dwelt with the eloquence of pity, and while the
throng was confounded rather than appeased, he dismissed the envoys with
an escort of auxiliary cavalry. 
[1.40] Amid the alarm all condemned
Germanicus for not going to the Upper Army, where he might find obedience
and help against the rebels. "Enough and more than enough blunders,"
they said, "had been made by granting discharges and money, indeed,
by conciliatory measures. Even if Germanicus held his own life cheap, why
should he keep a little son and a pregnant wife among madmen who outraged
every human right? Let these, at least, be restored safely to their grandsire
and to the State." When his wife spurned the notion, protesting that
she was a descendant of the Divine Augustus and could face peril with no
degenerate spirit, he at last embraced her and the son of their love with
many tears, and after long delay compelled her to depart. Slowly moved
along a pitiable procession of women, a general's fugitive wife with a
little son in her bosom, her friends' wives weeping round her, as with
her they were dragging themselves from the camp. Not less sorrowful were
those who remained. 
[1.41] There was no appearance of the
triumphant general about Germanicus, and he seemed to be in a conquered
city rather than in his own camp, while groans and wailings attracted the
ears and looks even of the soldiers. They came out of their tents, asking
"what was that mournful sound? What meant the sad sight? Here were
ladies of rank, not a centurion to escort them, not a soldier, no sign
of a prince's wife, none of the usual retinue. Could they be going to the
Treveri, to be subjects of the foreigner?" Then they felt shame and
pity, and remembered his father Agrippa, her grandfather Augustus, her
father-in-law Drusus, her own glory as a mother of children, her noble
purity. And there was her little child too, born in the camp, brought up
amid the tents of the legions, whom they used to call in soldiers' fashion,
Caligula, because he often wore the shoe so called, to win the men's goodwill.
But nothing moved them so much as jealousy towards the Treveri. They entreated,
stopped the way, that Agrippina might return and remain, some running to
meet her, while most of them went back to Germanicus. He, with a grief
and anger that were yet fresh, thus began to address the throng around
him - 
[1.42] "Neither wife nor son are
dearer to me than my father and the State. But he will surely have the
protection of his own majesty, the empire of Rome that of our other armies.
My wife and children whom, were it a question of your glory, I would willingly
expose to destruction, I now remove to a distance from your fury, so that
whatever wickedness is thereby threatened, may be expiated by my blood
only, and that you may not be made more guilty by the slaughter of a great-grandson
of Augustus, and the murder of a daughter-in-law of Tiberius. For what
have you not dared, what have you not profaned during these days? What
name shall I give to this gathering? Am I to call you soldiers, you who
have beset with entrenchments and arms your general's son, or citizens,
when you have trampled under foot the authority of the Senate? Even the
rights of public enemies, the sacred character of the ambassador, and the
law of nations have been violated by you. The Divine Julius once quelled
an army's mutiny with a single word by calling those who were renouncing
their military obedience 'citizens.' The Divine Augustus cowed the legions
who had fought at Actium with one look of his face. Though I am not yet
what they were, still, descended as I am from them, it would be a strange
and unworthy thing should I be spurned by the soldiery of Spain or Syria.
First and twentieth legions, you who received your standards from Tiberius,
you, men of the twentieth who have shared with me so many battles and have
been enriched with so many rewards, is not this a fine gratitude with which
you are repaying your general? Are these the tidings which I shall have
to carry to my father when he hears only joyful intelligence from our other
provinces, that his own recruits, his own veterans are not satisfied with
discharge or pay; that here only centurions are murdered, tribunes driven
away, envoys imprisoned, camps and rivers stained with blood, while I am
myself dragging on a precarious existence amid those who hate me? 
[1.43] "Why, on the first day
of our meeting, why did you, my friends, wrest from me, in your blindness,
the steel which I was preparing to plunge into my breast? Better and more
loving was the act of the man who offered me the sword. At any rate I should
have perished before I was as yet conscious of all the disgraces of my
army, while you would have chosen a general who though he might allow my
death to pass unpunished would avenge the death of Varus and his three
legions. Never indeed may heaven suffer the Belgae, though they proffer
their aid, to have the glory and honour of having rescued the name of Rome
and quelled the tribes of Germany. It is thy spirit, Divine Augustus, now
received into heaven, thine image, father Drusus, and the remembrance of
thee, which, with these same soldiers who are now stimulated by shame and
ambition, should wipe out this blot and turn the wrath of civil strife
to the destruction of the foe. You too, in whose faces and in whose hearts
I perceive a change, if only you restore to the Senate their envoys, to
the emperor his due allegiance, to myself my wife and son, do you stand
aloof from pollution and separate the mutinous from among you. This will
be a pledge of your repentance, a guarantee of your loyalty." 
[1.44] Thereupon, as suppliants confessing
that his reproaches were true, they implored him to punish the guilty,
pardon those who had erred, and lead them against the enemy. And he was
to recall his wife, to let the nursling of the legions return and not be
handed over as a hostage to the Gauls. As to Agrippina's return, he made
the excuse of her approaching confinement and of winter. His son, he said,
would come, and the rest they might settle themselves. Away they hurried
hither and thither, altered men, and dragged the chief mutineers in chains
to Caius Caetronius commander of the first legion, who tried and punished
them one by one in the following fashion. In front of the throng stood
the legions with drawn swords. Each accused man was on a raised platform
and was pointed out by a tribune. If they shouted out that he was guilty,
he was thrown headlong and cut to pieces. The soldiers gloated over the
bloodshed as though it gave them absolution. Nor did Caesar check them,
seeing that without any order from himself the same men were responsible
for all the cruelty and all the odium of the deed. The example was followed
by the veterans, who were soon afterwards sent into Raetia, nominally to
defend the province against a threatened invasion of the Suevi but really
that they might tear themselves from a camp stamped with the horror of
a dreadful remedy no less than with the memory of guilt. Then the general
revised the list of centurions. Each, at his summons, stated his name,
his rank, his birthplace, the number of his campaigns, what brave deeds
he had done in battle, his military rewards, if any. If the tribunes and
the legion commended his energy and good behaviour, he retained his rank;
where they unanimously charged him with rapacity or cruelty, he was dismissed
the service. 
[1.45] Quiet being thus restored for
the present, a no less formidable difficulty remained through the turbulence
of the fifth and twenty-first legions, who were in winter quarters sixty
miles away at Old Camp, as the place was called. These, in fact, had been
the first to begin the mutiny, and the most atrocious deeds had been committed
by their hands. Unawed by the punishment of their comrades, and unmoved
by their contrition, they still retained their resentment. Caesar accordingly
proposed to send an armed fleet with some of our allies down the Rhine,
resolved to make war on them should they reject his authority. 
[1.46] At Rome, meanwhile, when the
result of affairs in Illyrium was not yet known, and men had heard of the
commotion among the German legions, the citizens in alarm reproached Tiberius
for the hypocritical irresolution with which he was befooling the senate
and the people, feeble and disarmed as they were, while the soldiery were
all the time in revolt, and could not be quelled by the yet imperfectly-matured
authority of two striplings. "He ought to have gone himself and confronted
with his imperial majesty those who would have soon yielded, when they
once saw a sovereign of long experience, who was the supreme dispenser
of rigour or of bounty. Could Augustus, with the feebleness of age on him,
so often visit Germany, and is Tiberius, in the vigour of life, to sit
in the Senate and criticise its members' words? He had taken good care
that there should be slavery at Rome; he should now apply some soothing
medicine to the spirit of soldiers, that they might be willing to endure
peace." 
[1.47] Notwithstanding these remonstrances,
it was the inflexible purpose of Tiberius not to quit the head-quarters
of empire or to imperil himself and the State. Indeed, many conflicting
thoughts troubled him. The army in Germany was the stronger; that in Pannonia
the nearer; the first was supported by all the strength of Gaul; the latter
menaced Italy. Which was he to prefer, without the fear that those whom
he slighted would be infuriated by the affront? But his sons might alike
visit both, and not compromise the imperial dignity, which inspired the
greatest awe at a distance. There was also an excuse for mere youths referring
some matters to their father, with the possibility that he could conciliate
or crush those who resisted Germanicus or Drusus. What resource remained,
if they despised the emperor? However, as if on the eve of departure, he
selected his attendants, provided his camp-equipage, and prepared a fleet;
then winter and matters of business were the various pretexts with which
he amused, first, sensible men, then the populace, last, and longest of
all, the provinces. 
[1.48] Germanicus meantime, though
he had concentrated his army and prepared vengeance against the mutineers,
thought that he ought still to allow them an interval, in case they might,
with the late warning before them, regard their safety. He sent a despatch
to Caecina, which said that he was on the way with a strong force, and
that, unless they forestalled his arrival by the execution of the guilty,
he would resort to an indiscriminate massacre. Caecina read the letter
confidentially to the eagle and standardbearers, and to all in the camp
who were least tainted by disloyalty, and urged them to save the whole
army from disgrace, and themselves from destruction. "In peace,"
he said, "the merits of a man's case are carefully weighed; when war
bursts on us, innocent and guilty alike perish." Upon this, they sounded
those whom they thought best for their purpose, and when they saw that
a majority of their legions remained loyal, at the commander's suggestion
they fixed a time for falling with the sword on all the vilest and foremost
of the mutineers. Then, at a mutually given signal, they rushed into the
tents, and butchered the unsuspecting men, none but those in the secret
knowing what was the beginning or what was to be the end of the slaughter.

[1.49] The scene was a contrast to
all civil wars which have ever occurred. It was not in battle, it was not
from opposing camps, it was from those same dwellings where day saw them
at their common meals, night resting from labour, that they divided themselves
into two factions, and showered on each other their missiles. Uproar, wounds,
bloodshed, were everywhere visible; the cause was a mystery. All else was
at the disposal of chance. Even some loyal men were slain, for, on its
being once understood who were the objects of fury, some of the worst mutineers
too had seized on weapons. Neither commander nor tribune was present to
control them; the men were allowed license and vengeance to their heart's
content. Soon afterwards Germanicus entered the camp, and exclaiming with
a flood of tears, that this was destruction rather than remedy, ordered
the bodies to be burnt. Even then their savage spirit was seized with desire
to march against the enemy, as an atonement for their frenzy, and it was
felt that the shades of their fellow-soldiers could be appeased only by
exposing such impious breasts to honourable scars. Caesar followed up the
enthusiasm of the men, and having bridged over the Rhine, he sent across
it 12,000 from the legions, with six-and-twenty allied cohorts, and eight
squadrons of cavalry, whose discipline had been without a stain during
the mutiny. 
[1.50] There was exultation among the
Germans, not far off, as long as we were detained by the public mourning
for the loss of Augustus, and then by our dissensions. But the Roman general
in a forced march, cut through the Caesian forest and the barrier which
had been begun by Tiberius, and pitched his camp on this barrier, his front
and rear being defended by intrenchments, his flanks by timber barricades.
He then penetrated some forest passes but little known, and, as there were
two routes, he deliberated whether he should pursue the short and ordinary
route, or that which was more difficult unexplored, and consequently unguarded
by the enemy. He chose the longer way, and hurried on every remaining preparation,
for his scouts had brought word that among the Germans it was a night of
festivity, with games, and one of their grand banquets. Caecina had orders
to advance with some light cohorts, and to clear away any obstructions
from the woods. The legions followed at a moderate interval. They were
helped by a night of bright starlight, reached the villages of the Marsi,
and threw their pickets round the enemy, who even then were stretched on
beds or at their tables, without the least fear, or any sentries before
their camp, so complete was their carelessness and disorder; and of war
indeed there was no apprehension. Peace it certainly was not - merely the
languid and heedless ease of half-intoxicated people. 
[1.51] Caesar, to spread devastation
widely, divided his eager legions into four columns, and ravaged a space
of fifty miles with fire and sword. Neither sex nor age moved his compassion.
Everything, sacred or profane, the temple too of Tamfana, as they called
it, the special resort of all those tribes, was levelled to the ground.
There was not a wound among our soldiers, who cut down a half-asleep, an
unarmed, or a straggling foe. The Bructeri, Tubantes, and Usipetes, were
roused by this slaughter, and they beset the forest passes through which
the army had to return. The general knew this, and he marched, prepared
both to advance and to fight. Part of the cavalry, and some of the auxiliary
cohorts led the van; then came the first legion, and, with the baggage
in the centre, the men of the twenty-first closed up the left, those of
the fifth, the right flank. The twentieth legion secured the rear, and,
next, were the rest of the allies. Meanwhile the enemy moved not till the
army began to defile in column through the woods, then made slight skirmishing
attacks on its flanks and van, and with his whole force charged the rear.
The light cohorts were thrown into confusion by the dense masses of the
Germans, when Caesar rode up to the men of the twentieth legion, and in
a loud voice exclaimed that this was the time for wiping out the mutiny.
"Advance," he said, "and hasten to turn your guilt into
glory." This fired their courage, and at a single dash they broke
through the enemy, and drove him back with great slaughter into the open
country. At the same moment the troops of the van emerged from the woods
and intrenched a camp. After this their march was uninterrupted, and the
soldiery, with the confidence of recent success, and forgetful of the past,
were placed in winter-quarters. 
[1.52] The news was a source of joy
and also of anxiety to Tiberius. He rejoiced that the mutiny was crushed,
but the fact that Germanicus had won the soldiers' favour by lavishing
money, and promptly granting the discharge, as well as his fame as a soldier,
annoyed him. Still, he brought his achievements under the notice of the
Senate, and spoke much of his greatness in language elaborated for effect,
more so than could be believed to come from his inmost heart. He bestowed
a briefer praise on Drusus, and on the termination of the disturbance in
Illyricum, but he was more earnest, and his speech more hearty. And he
confirmed, too, in the armies of Pannonia all the concessions of Germanicus.

[1.53] That same year Julia ended her
days. For her profligacy she had formerly been confined by her father Augustus
in the island of Pandateria, and then in the town of the Regini on the
shores of the straits of Sicily. She had been the wife of Tiberius while
Caius and Lucius Caesar were in their glory, and had disdained him as an
unequal match. This was Tiberius's special reason for retiring to Rhodes.
When he obtained the empire, he left her in banishment and disgrace, deprived
of all hope after the murder of Postumus Agrippa, and let her perish by
a lingering death of destitution, with the idea that an obscurity would
hang over her end from the length of her exile. He had a like motive for
cruel vengeance on Sempronius Gracchus, a man of noble family, of shrewd
understanding, and a perverse eloquence, who had seduced this same Julia
when she was the wife of Marcus Agrippa. And this was not the end of the
intrigue. When she had been handed over to Tiberius, her persistent paramour
inflamed her with disobedience and hatred towards her husband; and a letter
which Julia wrote to her father, Augustus, inveighing against Tiberius,
was supposed to be the composition of Gracchus. He was accordingly banished
to Cercina, where he endured an exile of fourteen years. Then the soldiers
who were sent to slay him, found him on a promontory, expecting no good.
On their arrival, he begged a brief interval in which to give by letter
his last instructions to his wife Alliaria, and then offered his neck to
the executioners, dying with a courage not unworthy of the Sempronian name,
which his degenerate life had dishonoured. Some have related that these
soldiers were not sent from Rome, but by Lucius Asprenas, proconsul of
Africa, on the authority of Tiberius, who had vainly hoped that the infamy
of the murder might be shifted on Asprenas. 
[1.54] The same year witnessed the
establishment of religious ceremonies in a new priesthood of the brotherhood
of the Augustales, just as in former days Titus Tatius, to retain the rites
of the Sabines, had instituted the Titian brotherhood. Twenty-one were
chosen by lot from the chief men of the State; Tiberius, Drusus, Claudius,
and Germanicus, were added to the number. The Augustal game's which were
then inaugurated, were disturbed by quarrels arising out of rivalry between
the actors. Augustus had shown indulgence to the entertainment by way of
humouring Maecenas's extravagant passion for Bathyllus, nor did he himself
dislike such amusements, and he thought it citizenlike to mingle in the
pleasures of the populace. Very different was the tendency of Tiberius's
character. But a people so many years indulgently treated, he did not yet
venture to put under harsher control. 
[1.55] In the consulship of Drusus
Caesar and Caius Norbanus, Germanicus had a triumph decreed him, though
war still lasted. And though it was for the summer campaign that he was
most vigorously preparing, he anticipated it by a sudden inroad on the
Chatti in the beginning of spring. There had, in fact, sprung up a hope
of the enemy being divided between Arminius and Segestes, famous, respectively,
for treachery and loyalty towards us. Arminius was the disturber of Germany.
Segestes often revealed the fact that a rebellion was being organized,
more especially at that last banquet after which they rushed to arms, and
he urged Varus to arrest himself and Arminius and all the other chiefs,
assuring him that the people would attempt nothing if the leading men were
removed, and that he would then have an opportunity of sifting accusations
and distinguishing the innocent. But Varus fell by fate and by the sword
of Arminius, with whom Segestes, though dragged into war by the unanimous
voice of the nation, continued to be at feud, his resentment being heightened
by personal motives, as Arminius had married his daughter who was betrothed
to another. With a son-in-law detested, and fathers-in-law also at enmity,
what are bonds of love between united hearts became with bitter foes incentives
to fury. 
[1.56] Germanicus accordingly gave
Caecina four legions, five thousand auxiliaries, with some hastily raised
levies from the Germans dwelling on the left bank of the Rhine. He was
himself at the head of an equal number of legions and twice as many allies.
Having established a fort on the site of his father's entrenchments on
Mount Taunus he hurried his troops in quick marching order against the
Chatti, leaving Lucius Apronius to direct works connected with roads and
bridges. With a dry season and comparatively shallow streams, a rare circumstance
in that climate, he had accomplished, without obstruction, rapid march,
and he feared for his return heavy rains and swollen rivers. But so suddenly
did he come on the Chatti that all the helpless from age or sex were at
once captured or slaughtered. Their able-bodied men had swum across the
river Adrana, and were trying to keep back the Romans as they were commencing
a bridge. Subsequently they were driven back by missiles and arrows, and
having in vain attempted for peace, some took refuge with Germanicus, while
the rest leaving their cantons and villages dispersed themselves in their
forests. After burning Mattium, the capital of the tribe, and ravaging
the open country, Germanicus marched back towards the Rhine, the enemy
not daring to harass the rear of the retiring army, which was his usual
practice whenever he fell back by way of stratagem rather than from panic.
It had been the intention of the Cherusci to help the Chatti; but Caecina
thoroughly cowed them, carrying his arms everywhere, and the Marsi who
ventured to engage him, he repulsed in a successful battle. 
[1.57] Not long after envoys came from
Segestes, imploring aid against the violence of his fellow-countrymen,
by whom he was hemmed in, and with whom Arminius had greater influence,
because he counselled war. For with barbarians, the more eager a man's
daring, the more does he inspire confidence, and the more highly is he
esteemed in times of revolution. With the envoys Segestes had associated
his son, by name Segimundus, but the youth hung back from a consciousness
of guilt. For in the year of the revolt of Germany he had been appointed
a priest at the altar of the Ubii, and had rent the sacred garlands, and
fled to the rebels. Induced, however, to hope for mercy from Rome, he brought
his father's message; he was graciously received and sent with an escort
to the Gallic bank of the Rhine. It was now worth while for Germanicus
to march back his army. A battle was fought against the besiegers and Segestes
was rescued with a numerous band of kinsfolk and dependents. In the number
were some women of rank; among them, the wife of Arminius, who was also
the daughter of Segestes, but who exhibited the spirit of her husband rather
than of her father, subdued neither to tears nor to the tones of a suppliant,
her hands tightly clasped within her bosom, and eyes which dwelt on her
hope of offspring. The spoils also taken in the defeat of Varus were brought
in, having been given as plunder to many of those who were then being surrendered.

[1.58] Segestes too was there in person,
a stately figure, fearless in the remembrance of having been a faithful
ally. His speech was to this effect. "This is not my first day of
steadfast loyalty towards the Roman people. From the time that the Divine
Augustus gave me the citizenship, I have chosen my friends and foes with
an eye to your advantage, not from hatred of my fatherland (for traitors
are detested even by those whom they prefer) but because I held that Romans
and Germans have the same interests, and that peace is better than war.
And therefore I denounced to Varus, who then commanded your army, Arminius,
the ravisher of my daughter, the violater of your treaty. I was put off
by that dilatory general, and, as I found but little protection in the
laws, I urged him to arrest myself, Arminius, and his accomplices. That
night is my witness; would that it had been my last. What followed, may
be deplored rather than defended. However, I threw Arminius into chains
and I endured to have them put on myself by his partisans. And as soon
as give opportunity, I show my preference for the old over the new, for
peace over commotion, not to get a reward, but that I may clear myself
from treachery and be at the same time a fit mediator for a German people,
should they choose repentance rather than ruin, For the youth and error
of my son I entreat forgiveness. As for my daughter, I admit that it is
by compulsion she has been brought here. It will be for you to consider
which fact weighs most with you, that she is with child by Arminius or
that she owes her being to me." Caesar in a gracious reply promised
safety to his children and kinsfolk and a home for himself in the old province.
He then led back the army and received on the proposal of Tiberius the
title of Imperator. The wife of Arminius gave birth to a male child; the
boy, who was brought up at Ravenna, soon afterwards suffered an insult,
which at the proper time I shall relate. 
[1.59] The report of the surrender
and kind reception of Segestes, when generally known, was heard with hope
or grief according as men shrank from war or desired it. Arminius, with
his naturally furious temper, was driven to frenzy by the seizure of his
wife and the foredooming to slavery of his wife's unborn child. He flew
hither and thither among the Cherusci, demanding "war against Segestes,
war against Caesar." And he refrained not from taunts. "Noble
the father," he would say, "mighty the general, brave the army
which, with such strength, has carried off one weak woman. Before me, three
legions, three commanders have fallen. Not by treachery, not against pregnant
women, but openly against armed men do I wage war. There are still to be
seen in the groves of Germany the Roman standards which I hung up to our
country's gods. Let Segestes dwell on the conquered bank; let him restore
to his son his priestly office; one thing there is which Germans will never
thoroughly excuse, their having seen between the Elbe and the Rhine the
Roman rods, axes, and toga. Other nations in their ignorance of Roman rule,
have no experience of punishments, know nothing of tributes, and, as we
have shaken them off, as the great Augustus, ranked among dieties, and
his chosen heir Tiberius, departed from us, baffled, let us not quail before
an inexperienced stripling, before a mutinous army. If you prefer your
fatherland, your ancestors, your ancient life to tyrants and to new colonies,
follow as your leader Arminius to glory and to freedom rather than Segestes
to ignominious servitude." 
[1.60] This language roused not only
the Cherusci but the neighbouring tribes and drew to their side Inguiomerus,
the uncle of Arminius, who had long been respected by the Romans. This
increased Caesar's alarm. That the war might not burst in all its fury
on one point, he sent Caecina through the Bructeri to the river Amisia
with forty Roman cohorts to distract the enemy, while the cavalry was led
by its commander Pedo by the territories of the Frisii. Germanicus himself
put four legions on shipboard and conveyed them through the lakes, and
the infantry, cavalry, and fleet met simultaneously at the river already
mentioned. The Chauci, on promising aid, were associated with us in military
fellowship. Lucius Stertinius was despatched by Germanicus with a flying
column and routed the Bructeri as they were burning their possessions,
and amid the carnage and plunder, found the eagle of the nineteenth legion
which had been lost with Varus. The troops were then marched to the furthest
frontier of the Bructeri, and all the country between the rivers Amisia
and Luppia was ravaged, not far from the forest of Teutoburgium where the
remains of Varus and his legions were said to lie unburied. 
[1.61] Germanicus upon this was seized
with an eager longing to pay the last honour to those soldiers and their
general, while the whole army present was moved to compassion by the thought
of their kinsfolk and friends, and, indeed, of the calamities of wars and
the lot of mankind. Having sent on Caecina in advance to reconnoitre the
obscure forest-passes, and to raise bridges and causeways over watery swamps
and treacherous plains, they visited the mournful scenes, with their horrible
sights and associations. Varus's first camp with its wide circumference
and the measurements of its central space clearly indicated the handiwork
of three legions. Further on, the partially fallen rampart and the shallow
fosse suggested the inference that it was a shattered remnant of the army
which had there taken up a position. In the centre of the field were the
whitening bones of men, as they had fled, or stood their ground, strewn
everywhere or piled in heaps. Near, lay fragments of weapons and limbs
of horses, and also human heads, prominently nailed to trunks of trees.
In the adjacent groves were the barbarous altars, on which they had immolated
tribunes and first-rank centurions. Some survivors of the disaster who
had escaped from the battle or from captivity, described how this was the
spot where the officers fell, how yonder the eagles were captured, where
Varus was pierced by his first wound, where too by the stroke of his own
ill-starred hand he found for himself death. They pointed out too the raised
ground from which Arminius had harangued his army, the number of gibbets
for the captives, the pits for the living, and how in his exultation he
insulted the standards and eagles. 
[1.62] And so the Roman army now on
the spot, six years after the disaster, in grief and anger, began to bury
the bones of the three legions, not a soldier knowing whether he was interring
the relics of a relative or a stranger, but looking on all as kinsfolk
and of their own blood, while their wrath rose higher than ever against
the foe. In raising the barrow Caesar laid the first sod, rendering thus
a most welcome honour to the dead, and sharing also in the sorrow of those
present. This Tiberius did not approve, either interpreting unfavourably
every act of Germanicus, or because he thought that the spectacle of the
slain and unburied made the army slow to fight and more afraid of the enemy,
and that a general invested with the augurate and its very ancient ceremonies
ought not to have polluted himself with funeral rites. 
[1.63] Germanicus, however, pursued
Arminius as he fell back into trackless wilds, and as soon as he had the
opportunity, ordered his cavalry to sally forth and scour the plains occupied
by the enemy. Arminius having bidden his men to concentrate themselves
and keep close to the woods, suddenly wheeled round, and soon gave those
whom he had concealed in the forest passes the signal to rush to the attack.
Thereupon our cavalry was thrown into disorder by this new force, and some
cohorts in reserve were sent, which, broken by the shock of flying troops,
increased the panic. They were being pushed into a swamp, well known to
the victorious assailants, perilous to men unacquainted with it, when Caesar
led forth his legions in battle array. This struck terror into the enemy
and gave confidence to our men, and they separated without advantage to
either. Soon afterwards Germanicus led back his army to the Amisia, taking
his legions by the fleet, as he had brought them up. Part of the cavalry
was ordered to make for the Rhine along the sea-coast. Caecina, who commanded
a division of his own, was advised, though he was returning by a route
which he knew, to pass Long Bridges with all possible speed. This was a
narrow road amid vast swamps, which had formerly been constructed by Lucius
Domitius; on every side were quagmires of thick clinging mud, or perilous
with streams. Around were woods on a gradual slope, which Arminius now
completely occupied, as soon as by a short route and quick march he had
outstripped troops heavily laden with baggage and arms. As Caecina was
in doubt how he could possibly replace bridges which were ruinous from
age, and at the same time hold back the enemy, he resolved to encamp on
the spot, that some might begin the repair and others the attack. 
[1.64] The barbarians attempted to
break through the outposts and to throw themselves on the engineering parties,
which they harassed, pacing round them and continually charging them. There
was a confused din from the men at work and the combatants. Everything
alike was unfavourable to the Romans, the place with its deep swamps, insecure
to the foot and slippery as one advanced, limbs burdened with coats of
mail, and the impossibility of aiming their javelins amid the water. The
Cherusci, on the other hand, were familiar with fighting in fens; they
had huge frames, and lances long enough to inflict wounds even at a distance.
Night at last released the legions, which were now wavering, from a disastrous
engagement. The Germans whom success rendered unwearied, without even then
taking any rest, turned all the streams which rose from the slopes of the
surrounding hills into the lands beneath. The ground being thus flooded
and the completed portion of our works submerged, the soldiers' labour
was doubled. This was Caecina's fortieth campaign as a subordinate or a
commander, and, with such experience of success and peril, he was perfectly
fearless. As he thought over future possibilities, he could devise no plan
but to keep the enemy within the woods, till the wounded and the more encumbered
troops were in advance. For between the hills and the swamps there stretched
a plain which would admit of an extended line. The legions had their assigned
places, the fifth on the right wing, the twenty-first on the left, the
men of the first to lead the van, the twentieth to repel pursuers. 
[1.65] It was a restless night for
different reasons, the barbarians in their festivity filling the valleys
under the hills and the echoing glens with merry song or savage shouts,
while in the Roman camp were flickering fires, broken exclamations, and
the men lay scattered along the intrenchments or wandered from tent to
tent, wakeful rather than watchful. A ghastly dream appalled the general.
He seemed to see Quintilius Varus, covered with blood, rising out of the
swamps, and to hear him, as it were, calling to him, but he did not, as
he imagined, obey the call; he even repelled his hand, as he stretched
it over him. At daybreak the legions, posted on the wings, from panic or
perversity, deserted their position and hastily occupied a plain beyond
the morass. Yet Arminius, though free to attack, did not at the moment
rush out on them. But when the baggage was clogged in the mud and in the
fosses, the soldiers around it in disorder, the array of the standards
in confusion, every one in selfish haste and all ears deaf to the word
of command he ordered the Germans to charge, exclaiming again and again,
"Behold a Varus and legions once more entangled in Varus's fate."
As he spoke, he cut through the column with some picked men, inflicting
wounds chiefly on the horses. Staggering in their blood on the slippery
marsh, they shook off their riders, driving hither and thither all in their
way, and trampling on the fallen. The struggle was hottest round the eagles,
which could neither be carried in the face of the storm of missiles, nor
planted in the miry soil. Caecina, while he was keeping up the battle,
fell from his horse, which was pierced under him, and was being hemmed
in, when the first legion threw itself in the way. The greed of the foe
helped him, for they left the slaughter to secure the spoil, and the legions,
towards evening, struggled on to open and firm ground. Nor did this end
their miseries. Entrenchments had to be thrown up, materials sought for
earthworks, while the army had lost to a great extent their implements
for digging earth and cutting turf. There were no tents for the rank and
file, no comforts for the wounded. As they shared their food, soiled by
mire or blood, they bewailed the darkness with its awful omen, and the
one day which yet remained to so many thousand men. 
[1.66] It chanced that a horse, which
had broken its halter and wandered wildly in fright at the uproar, overthrew
some men against whom it dashed. Thence arose such a panic, from the belief
that the Germans had burst into the camp, that all rushed to the gates.
Of these the decuman gate was the point chiefly sought, as it was furthest
from the enemy and safer for flight. Caecina, having ascertained that the
alarm was groundless, yet being unable to stop or stay the soldiers by
authority or entreaties or even by force, threw himself to the earth in
the gateway, and at last by an appeal to their pity, as they would have
had to pass over the body of their commander, closed the way. At the same
moment the tribunes and the centurions convinced them that it was a false
alarm. 
[1.67] Having then assembled them at
his headquarters, and ordered them to hear his words in silence, he reminded
them of the urgency of the crisis. "Their safety," he said, "lay
in their arms, which they must, however, use with discretion, and they
must remain within the entrenchments, till the enemy approached closer,
in the hope of storming them; then, there must be a general sortie; by
that sortie the Rhine might be reached. Whereas if they fled, more forests,
deeper swamps, and a savage foe awaited them; but if they were victorious,
glory and renown would be theirs." He dwelt on all that was dear to
them at home, all that testified to their honour in the camp, without any
allusion to disaster. Next he handed over the horses, beginning with his
own, of the officers and tribunes, to the bravest fighters in the army,
quite impartially, that these first, and then the infantry, might charge
the enemy. 
[1.68] There was as much restlessness
in the German host with its hopes, its eager longings, and the conflicting
opinions of its chiefs. Arminius advised that they should allow the Romans
to quit their position, and, when they had quitted it, again surprise them
in swampy and intricate ground. Inguiomerus, with fiercer counsels, heartily
welcome to barbarians, was for beleaguering the entrenchment in armed array,
as to storm them would, he said, be easy, and there would be more prisoners
and the booty unspoilt. So at daybreak they trampled in the fosses, flung
hurdles into them, seized the upper part of the breastwork, where the troops
were thinly distributed and seemingly paralysed by fear. When they were
fairly within the fortifications, the signal was given to the cohorts,
and the horns and trumpets sounded. Instantly, with a shout and sudden
rush, our men threw themselves on the German rear, with taunts, that here
were no woods or swamps, but that they were on equal ground, with equal
chances. The sound of trumpets, the gleam of arms, which were so unexpected,
burst with all the greater effect on the enemy, thinking only, as they
were, of the easy destruction of a few half-armed men, and they were struck
down, as unprepared for a reverse as they had been elated by success. Arminius
and Inguiomerus fled from the battle, the first unhurt, the other severely
wounded. Their followers were slaughtered, as long as our fury and the
light of day lasted. It was not till night that the legions returned, and
though more wounds and the same want of provisions distressed them, yet
they found strength, healing, sustenance, everything indeed, in their victory.

[1.69] Meanwhile a rumour had spread
that our army was cut off, and that a furious German host was marching
on Gaul. And had not Agrippina prevented the bridge over the Rhine from
being destroyed, some in their cowardice would have dared that base act.
A woman of heroic spirit, she assumed during those days the duties of a
general, and distributed clothes or medicine among the soldiers, as they
were destitute or wounded. According to Caius Plinius, the historian of
the German wars, she stood at the extremity of the bridge, and bestowed
praise and thanks on the returning legions. This made a deep impression
on the mind of Tiberius. "Such zeal," he thought, "could
not be guileless; it was not against a foreign foe that she was thus courting
the soldiers. Generals had nothing left them when a woman went among the
companies, attended the standards, ventured on bribery, as though it showed
but slight ambition to parade her son in a common soldier's uniform, and
wish him to be called Caesar Caligula. Agrippina had now more power with
the armies than officers, than generals. A woman had quelled a mutiny which
the sovereign's name could not check." All this was inflamed and aggravated
by Sejanus, who, with his thorough comprehension of the character of Tiberius,
sowed for a distant future hatreds which the emperor might treasure up
and might exhibit when fully matured. 
[1.70] Of the legions which he had
conveyed by ship, Germanicus gave the second and fourteenth to Publius
Vitellius, to be marched by land, so that the fleet might sail more easily
over a sea full of shoals, or take the ground more lightly at the ebb-tide.
Vitellius at first pursued his route without interruption, having a dry
shore, or the waves coming in gently. After a while, through the force
of the north wind and the equinoctial season, when the sea swells to its
highest, his army was driven and tossed hither and thither. The country
too was flooded; sea, shore, fields presented one aspect, nor could the
treacherous quicksands be distinguished from solid ground or shallows from
deep water. Men were swept away by the waves or sucked under by eddies;
beasts of burden, baggage, lifeless bodies floated about and blocked their
way. The companies were mingled in confusion, now with the breast, now
with the head only above water, sometimes losing their footing and parted
from their comrades or drowned. The voice of mutual encouragement availed
not against the adverse force of the waves. There was nothing to distinguish
the brave from the coward, the prudent from the careless, forethought from
chance; the same strong power swept everything before it. At last Vitellius
struggled out to higher ground and led his men up to it. There they passed
the night, without necessary food, without fire, many of them with bare
or bruised limbs, in a plight as pitiable as that of men besieged by an
enemy. For such, at least, have the opportunity of a glorious death, while
here was destruction without honour. Daylight restored land to their sight,
and they pushed their way to the river Visurgis, where Caesar had arrived
with the fleet. The legions then embarked, while a rumour was flying about
that they were drowned. Nor was there a belief in their safety till they
saw Caesar and the army returned. 
[1.71] By this time Stertinius, who
had been despatched to receive the surrender of Segimerus, brother of Segestes,
had conducted the chief, together with his son, to the canton of the Ubii.
Both were pardoned, Segimerus readily, the son with some hesitation, because
it was said that he had insulted the corpse of Quintilius Varus. Meanwhile
Gaul, Spain, and Italy vied in repairing the losses of the army, offering
whatever they had at hand, arms, horses, gold. Germanicus having praised
their zeal, took only for the war their arms and horses, and relieved the
soldiers out of his own purse. And that he might also soften the remembrance
of the disaster by kindness, he went round to the wounded, applauded the
feats of soldier after soldier, examined their wounds, raised the hopes
of one, the ambition of another, and the spirits of all by his encouragement
and interest, thus strengthening their ardour for himself and for battle.

[1.72] That year triumphal honours
were decreed to Aulus Caecina, Lucius Apronius, Caius Silius for their
achievements under Germanicus. The title of "father of his country,"
which the people had so often thrust on him, Tiberius refused, nor would
he allow obedience to be sworn to his enactments, though the Senate voted
it, for he said repeatedly that all human things were uncertain, and that
the more he had obtained, the more precarious was his position. But he
did not thereby create a belief in his patriotism, for he had revived the
law of treason, the name of which indeed was known in ancient times, though
other matters came under its jurisdiction, such as the betrayal of an army,
or seditious stirring up of the people, or, in short, any corrupt act by
which a man had impaired "the majesty of the people of Rome."
Deeds only were liable to accusation; words went unpunished. It was Augustus
who first, under colour of this law, applied legal inquiry to libellous
writings provoked, as he had been, by the licentious freedom with which
Cassius Severus had defamed men and women of distinction in his insulting
satires. Soon afterwards, Tiberius, when consulted by Pompeius Macer, the
praetor, as to whether prosecutions for treason should be revived, replied
that the laws must be enforced. He too had been exasperated by the publication
of verses of uncertain authorship, pointed at his cruelty, his arrogance,
and his dissensions with his mother. 
[1.73] It will not be uninteresting
if I relate in the cases of Falanius and Rubrius, Roman knights of moderate
fortune, the first experiments at such accusations, in order to explain
the origin of a most terrible scourge, how by Tiberius's cunning it crept
in among us, how subsequently it was checked, finally, how it burst into
flame and consumed everything. Against Falanius it was alleged by his accuser
that he had admitted among the votaries of Augustus, who in every great
house were associated into a kind of brotherhood, one Cassius, a buffoon
of infamous life, and that he had also in selling his gardens included
in the sale a statue of Augustus. Against Rubrius the charge was that he
had violated by perjury the divinity of Augustus. When this was known to
Tiberius, he wrote to the consuls "that his father had not had a place
in heaven decreed to him, that the honour might be turned to the destruction
of the citizens. Cassius, the actor, with men of the same profession, used
to take part in the games which had been consecrated by his mother to the
memory of Augustus. Nor was it contrary to the religion of the State for
the emperor's image, like those of other deities, to be added to a sale
of gardens and houses. As to the oath, the thing ought to be considered
as if the man had deceived Jupiter. Wrongs done to the gods were the gods'
concern." 
[1.74] Not long afterwards, Granius
Marcellus, proconsul of Bithynia, was accused of treason by his quaestor,
Caepio Crispinus, and the charge was supported by Romanus Hispo. Crispinus
then entered on a line of life afterwards rendered notorious by the miseries
of the age and men's shamelessness. Needy, obscure, and restless, he wormed
himself by stealthy informations into the confidence of a vindictive prince,
and soon imperilled all the most distinguished citizens; and having thus
gained influence with one, hatred from all besides, he left an example
in following which beggars became wealthy, the insignificant, formidable,
and brought ruin first on others, finally on themselves. He alleged against
Marcellus that he had made some disrespectful remarks about Tiberius, a
charge not to be evaded, inasmuch as the accuser selected the worst features
of the emperor's character and grounded his case on them. The things were
true, and so were believed to have been said. Hispo added that Marcellus
had placed his own statue above those of the Caesars, and had set the bust
of Tiberius on another statue from which he had struck off the head of
Augustus. At this the emperor's wrath blazed forth, and, breaking through
his habitual silence, he exclaimed that in such a case he would himself
too give his vote openly on oath, that the rest might be under the same
obligation. There lingered even then a few signs of expiring freedom. And
so Cneius Piso asked, "In what order will you vote, Caesar? If first,
I shall know what to follow; if last, I fear that I may differ from you
unwillingly." Tiberius was deeply moved, and repenting of the outburst,
all the more because of its thoughtlessness, he quietly allowed the accused
to be acquitted of the charges of treason. As for the question of extortion,
it was referred to a special commission. 
[1.75] Not satisfied with judicial
proceedings in the Senate, the emperor would sit at one end of the Praetor's
tribunal, but so as not to displace him from the official seat. Many decisions
were given in his presence, in opposition to improper influence and the
solicitations of great men. This, though it promoted justice, ruined freedom.
Pius Aurelius, for example, a senator, complained that the foundations
of his house had been weakened by the pressure of a public road and aqueduct,
and he appealed to the Senate for assistance. He was opposed by the praetors
of the treasury, but the emperor helped him, and paid him the value of
his house, for he liked to spend money on a good purpose, a virtue which
he long retained, when he cast off all others. To Propertius Celer, an
ex-praetor, who sought because of his indigence to be excused from his
rank as a senator, he gave a million sesterces, having ascertained that
he had inherited poverty. He bade others, who attempted the same, prove
their case to the Senate, as from his love of strictness he was harsh even
where he acted on right grounds. Consequently every one else preferred
silence and poverty to confession and relief. 
[1.76] In the same year the Tiber,
swollen by continuous rains, flooded the level portions of the city. Its
subsidence was followed by a destruction of buildings and of life. Thereupon
Asinius Gallus proposed to consult the Sibylline books. Tiberius refused,
veiling in obscurity the divine as well as the human. However, the devising
of means to confine the river was intrusted to Ateius Capito and Lucius
Arruntius. Achaia and Macedonia, on complaining of their burdens, were,
it was decided, to be relieved for a time from proconsular government and
to be transferred to the emperor. Drusus presided over a show of gladiators
which he gave in his own name and in that of his brother Germanicus, for
he gloated intensely over bloodshed, however cheap its victims. This was
alarming to the populace, and his father had, it was said, rebuked him.
Why Tiberius kept away from the spectacle was variously explained. According
to some, it was his loathing of a crowd, according to others, his gloomy
temper, and a fear of contrast with the gracious presence of Augustus.
I cannot believe that he deliberately gave his son the opportunity of displaying
his ferocity and provoking the people's disgust, though even this was said.

[1.77] Meanwhile the unruly tone of
the theatre which first showed itself in the preceding year, broke out
with worse violence, and some soldiers and a centurion, besides several
of the populace, were killed, and the tribune of a praetorian cohort was
wounded, while they were trying to stop insults to the magistrates and
the strife of the mob. This disturbance was the subject of a debate in
the Senate, and opinions were expressed in favour of the praetors having
authority to scourge actors. Haterius Agrippa, tribune of the people, interposed
his veto, and was sharply censured in a speech from Asinius Gallus, without
a word from Tiberius, who liked to allow the Senate such shows of freedom.
Still the interposition was successful, because Augustus had once pronounced
that actors were exempt from the scourge, and it was not lawful for Tiberius
to infringe his decisions. Many enactments were passed to fix the amount
of their pay and to check the disorderly behaviour of their partisans.
Of these the chief were that no Senator should enter the house of a pantomime
player, that Roman knights should not crowd round them in the public streets,
that they should exhibit themselves only in the theatre, and that the praetors
should be empowered to punish with banishment any riotous conduct in the
spectators. 
[1.78] A request from the Spaniards
that they might erect a temple to Augustus in the colony of Tarraco was
granted, and a precedent thus given for all the provinces. When the people
of Rome asked for a remission of the one per cent tax on all saleable commodities,
Tiberius declared by edict "that the military exchequer depended on
that branch of revenue, and, further, that the State was unequal to the
burden, unless the twentieth year of service were to be that of the veteran's
discharge." Thus the ill-advised results of the late mutiny, by which
a limit of sixteen campaigns had been extorted, were cancelled for the
future. 
[1.79] A question was then raised in
the Senate by Arruntius and Ateius whether, in order to restrain the inundations
of the Tiber, the rivers and lakes which swell its waters should be diverted
from their courses. A hearing was given to embassies from the municipal
towns and colonies, and the people of Florentia begged that the Clanis
might not be turned out of its channel and made to flow into the Arnus,
as that would bring ruin on themselves. Similar arguments were used by
the inhabitants of Interamna. The most fruitful plains of Italy, they said,
would be destroyed if the river Nar (for this was the plan proposed) were
to be divided into several streams and overflow the country. Nor did the
people of Reate remain silent. They remonstrated against the closing up
of the Veline lake, where it empties itself into the Nar, "as it would
burst in a flood on the entire neighbourhood. Nature had admirably provided
for human interests in having assigned to rivers their mouths, their channels,
and their limits, as well as their sources. Regard, too, must be paid to
the different religions of the allies, who had dedicated sacred rites,
groves, and altars to the rivers of their country. Tiber himself would
be altogether unwilling to be deprived of his neighbour streams and to
flow with less glory." Either the entreaties of the colonies, or the
difficulty of the work or superstitious motives prevailed, and they yielded
to Piso's opinion, who declared himself against any change. 
[1.80] Poppaeus Sabinus was continued
in his government of the province of Moesia with the addition of Achaia
and Macedonia. It was part of Tiberius' character to prolong indefinitely
military commands and to keep many men to the end of their life with the
same armies and in the same administrations. Various motives have been
assigned for this. Some say that, out of aversion to any fresh anxiety,
he retained what he had once approved as a permanent arrangement; others,
that he grudged to see many enjoying promotion. Some, again, think that
though he had an acute intellect, his judgment was irresolute, for he did
not seek out eminent merit, and yet he detested vice. From the best men
he apprehended danger to himself, from the worst, disgrace to the State.
He went so far at last in this irresolution, that he appointed to provinces
men whom he did not mean to allow to leave Rome. 
[1.81] I can hardly venture on any
positive statement about the consular elections, now held for the first
time under this emperor, or, indeed, subsequently, so conflicting are the
accounts we find not only in historians but in Tiberius' own speeches.
Sometimes he kept back the names of the candidates, describing their origin,
their life and military career, so that it might be understood who they
were. Occasionally even these hints were withheld, and, after urging them
not to disturb the elections by canvassing, he would promise his own help
towards the result. Generally he declared that only those had offered themselves
to him as candidates whose names he had given to the consuls, and that
others might offer themselves if they had confidence in their influence
or merit. A plausible profession this in words, but really unmeaning and
delusive, and the greater the disguise of freedom which marked it, the
more cruel the enslavement into which it was soon to plunge us. 
Book 2 - (A.D. 16-19)
[2.1] IN the consulship of Sisenna Statilius
Taurus and Lucius Libo there was a commotion in the kingdoms and Roman
provinces of the East. It had its origin among the Parthians, who disdained
as a foreigner a king whom they had sought and received from Rome, though
he was of the family of the Arsacids. This was Vonones, who had been given
as an hostage to Augustus by Phraates. For although he had driven before
him armies and generals from Rome, Phraates had shown to Augustus every
token of reverence and had sent him some of his children, to cement the
friendship, not so much from dread of us as from distrust of the loyalty
of his countrymen. 
[2.2] After the death of Phraates and
the succeeding kings in the bloodshed of civil wars, there came to Rome
envoys from the chief men of Parthia, in quest of Vonones, his eldest son.
Caesar thought this a great honour to himself, and loaded Vonones with
wealth. The barbarians, too, welcomed him with rejoicing, as is usual with
new rulers. Soon they felt shame at Parthians having become degenerate,
at their having sought a king from another world, one too infected with
the training of the enemy, at the throne of the Arsacids now being possessed
and given away among the provinces of Rome. "Where," they asked,
"was the glory of the men who slew Crassus, who drove out Antonius,
if Caesar's drudge, after an endurance of so many years' slavery, were
to rule over Parthians." Vonones himself too further provoked their
disdain, by his contrast with their ancestral manners, by his rare indulgence
in the chase, by his feeble interest in horses, by the litter in which
he was carried whenever he made a progress through their cities, and by
his contemptuous dislike of their national festivities. They also ridiculed
his Greek attendants and his keeping under seal the commonest household
articles. But he was easy of approach; his courtesy was open to all, and
he had thus virtues with which the Parthians were unfamiliar, and vices
new to them. And as his ways were quite alien from theirs they hated alike
what was bad and what was good in him. 
[2.3] Accordingly they summoned Artabanus,
an Arsacid by blood, who had grown to manhood among the Dahae, and who,
though routed in the first encounter, rallied his forces and possessed
himself of the kingdom. The conquered Vonones found a refuge in Armenia,
then a free country, and exposed to the power of Parthia and Rome, without
being trusted by either, in consequence of the crime of Antonius, who,
under the guise of friendship, had inveigled Artavasdes, king of the Armenians,
then loaded him with chains, and finally murdered him. His son, Artaxias,
our bitter foe because of his father's memory, found defence for himself
and his kingdom in the might of the Arsacids. When he was slain by the
treachery of kinsmen, Caesar gave Tigranes to the Armenians, and he was
put in possession of the kingdom under the escort of Tiberius Nero. But
neither Tigranes nor his children reigned long, though, in foreign fashion,
they were united in marriage and in royal power. 
[2.4] Next, at the bidding of Augustus,
Artavasdes was set on the throne, nor was he deposed without disaster to
ourselves. Caius Caesar was then appointed to restore order in Armenia.
He put over the Armenians Ariobarzanes, a Mede by birth, whom they willingly
accepted, because of his singularly handsome person and noble spirit. On
the death of Ariobarzanes through a fatal accident, they would not endure
his son. Having tried the government of a woman named Erato and having
soon afterwards driven her from them, bewildered and disorganised, rather
indeed without a ruler than enjoying freedom, they received for their king
the fugitive Vonones. When, however, Artabanus began to threaten, and but
feeble support could be given by the Armenians, or war with Parthia would
have to be undertaken, if Vonones was to be upheld by our arms, the governor
of Syria, Creticus Silanus, sent for him and kept him under surveillance,
letting him retain his royal pomp and title. How Vonones meditated an escape
from this mockery, I will relate in the proper place. 
[2.5] Meanwhile the commotion in the
East was rather pleasing to Tiberius, as it was a pretext for withdrawing
Germanicus from the legions which knew him well, and placing him over new
provinces where he would be exposed both to treachery and to disasters.
Germanicus, however, in proportion to the strength of the soldiers' attachment
and to his uncle's dislike, was eager to hasten his victory, and he pondered
on plans of battle, and on the reverses or successes which during more
than three years of war had fallen to his lot. The Germans, he knew, were
beaten in the field and on fair ground; they were helped by woods, swamps,
short summers, and early winters. His own troops were affected not so much
by wounds as by long marches and damage to their arms. Gaul had been exhausted
by supplying horses; a long baggage-train presented facilities for ambuscades,
and was embarrassing to its defenders. But by embarking on the sea, invasion
would be easy for them, and a surprise to the enemy, while a campaign too
would be more quickly begun, the legions and supplies would be brought
up simultaneously, and the cavalry with their horses would arrive, in good
condition, by the rivermouths and channels, at the heart of Germany. 
[2.6] To this accordingly he gave his
mind, and sent Publius Vitellius and Caius Antius to collect the taxes
of Gaul. Silius, Anteius, and Caecina had the charge of building a fleet.
It seemed that a thousand vessels were required, and they were speedily
constructed, some of small draught with a narrow stem and stern and a broad
centre, that they might bear the waves more easily; some flat-bottomed,
that they might ground without being injured; several, furnished with a
rudder at each end, so that by a sudden shifting of the oars they might
be run into shore either way. Many were covered in with decks, on which
engines for missiles might be conveyed, and were also fit for the carrying
of horses or supplies, and being equipped with sails as well as rapidly
moved by oars, they assumed, through the enthusiasm of our soldiers, an
imposing and formidable aspect. The island of the Batavi was the appointed
rendezvous, because of its easy landing-places, and its convenience for
receiving the army and carrying the war across the river. For the Rhine
after flowing continuously in a single channel or encircling merely insignificant
islands, divides itself, so to say, where the Batavian territory begins,
into two rivers, retaining its name and the rapidity of its course in the
stream which washes Germany, till it mingles with the ocean. On the Gallic
bank, its flow is broader and gentler; it is called by an altered name,
the Vahal, by the inhabitants of its shore. Soon that name too is changed
for the Mosa river, through whose vast mouth it empties itself into the
same ocean. 
[2.7] Caesar, however, while the vessels
were coming up, ordered Silius, his lieutenant-general, to make an inroad
on the Chatti with a flying column. He himself, on hearing that a fort
on the river Luppia was being besieged, led six legions to the spot. Silius
owing to sudden rains did nothing but carry off a small booty, and the
wife and daughter of Arpus, the chief of the Chatti. And Caesar had no
opportunity of fighting given him by the besiegers, who dispersed on the
rumour of his advance. They had, however, destroyed the barrow lately raised
in memory of Varus's legions, and the old altar of Drusus. The prince restored
the altar, and himself with his legions celebrated funeral games in his
father's honour. To raise a new barrow was not thought necessary. All the
country between the fort Aliso and the Rhine was thoroughly secured by
new barriers and earthworks. 
[2.8] By this time the fleet had arrived,
and Caesar, having sent on his supplies and assigned vessels for the legions
and the allied troops, entered "Drusus's fosse," as it was called.
He prayed Drusus his father to lend him, now that he was venturing on the
same enterprise, the willing and favourable aid of the example and willing
and favorable aid of the example and memory of his counsels and achievements,
and he arrived after a prosperous voyage through the lakes and the ocean
as far as the river Amisia. His fleet remained there on the left bank of
the stream, and it was a blunder that he did not have it brought up the
river. He disembarked the troops, which were to be marched to the country
on the right, and thus several days were wasted in the construction of
bridges. The cavalry and the legions fearlessly crossed the first estuaries
in which the tide had not yet risen. The rear of the auxiliaries, and the
Batavi among the number, plunging recklessly into the water and displaying
their skill in swimming, fell into disorder, and some were drowned. While
Caesar was measuring out his camp, he was told of a revolt of the Angrivarii
in his rear. He at once despatched Stertinius with some cavalry and a light
armed force, who punished their perfidy with fire and sword. 
[2.9] The waters of the Visurgis flowed
between the Romans and the Cherusci. On its banks stood Arminius with the
other chiefs. He asked whether Caesar had arrived, and on the reply that
he was present, he begged leave to have an interview with his brother.
That brother, surnamed Flavus, was with our army, a man famous for his
loyalty, and for having lost an eye by a wound, a few years ago, when Tiberius
was in command. The permission was then given, and he stepped forth and
was saluted by Arminius, who had removed his guards to a distance and required
that the bowmen ranged on our bank should retire. When they had gone away,
Arminius asked his brother whence came the scar which disfigured his face,
and on being told the particular place and battle, he inquired what reward
he had received. Flavus spoke of increased pay, of a neck chain, a crown,
and other military gifts, while Arminius jeered at such a paltry recompense
for slavery. 
[2.10] Then began a controversy. The
one spoke of the greatness of Rome, the resources of Caesar, the dreadful
punishment in store for the vanquished, the ready mercy for him who surrenders,
and the fact that neither Arminius's wife nor his son were treated as enemies;
the other, of the claims of fatherland, of ancestral freedom, of the gods
of the homes of Germany, of the mother who shared his prayers, that Flavus
might not choose to be the deserter and betrayer rather than the ruler
of his kinsfolk and relatives, and indeed of his own people. By degrees
they fell to bitter words, and even the river between them would not have
hindered them from joining combat, had not Stertinius hurried up and put
his hand on Flavus, who in the full tide of his fury was demanding his
weapons and his charger. Arminius was seen facing him, full of menaces
and challenging him to conflict. Much of what he said was in Roman speech,
for he had served in our camp as leader of his fellow-countrymen. 
[2.11] Next day the German army took
up its position on the other side of the Visurgis. Caesar, thinking that
without bridges and troops to guard them, it would not be good generalship
to expose the legions to danger, sent the cavalry across the river by the
fords. It was commanded by Stertinius and Aemilius, one of the first rank
centurions, who attacked at widely different points so as to distract the
enemy. Chariovalda, the Batavian chief, dashed to the charge where the
stream is most rapid. The Cherusci, by a pretended flight, drew him into
a plain surrounded by forest-passes. Then bursting on him in a sudden attack
from all points they thrust aside all who resisted, pressed fiercely on
their retreat, driving them before them, when they rallied in compact array,
some by close fighting, others by missiles from a distance. Chariovalda,
after long sustaining the enemy's fury, cheered on his men to break by
a dense formation the onset of their bands, while he himself, plunging
into the thickest of the battle, fell amid a shower of darts with his horse
pierced under him, and round him many noble chiefs. The rest were rescued
from the peril by their own strength, or by the cavalry which came up with
Stertinius and Aemilius. 
[2.12] Caesar on crossing the Visurgis
learnt by the information of a deserter that Arminius had chosen a battle-field,
that other tribes too had assembled in a forest sacred to Hercules, and
would venture on a night attack on his camp. He put faith in this intelligence,
and, besides, several watchfires were seen. Scouts also, who had crept
close up to the enemy, reported that they had heard the neighing of horses
and the hum of a huge and tumultuous host. And so as the decisive crisis
drew near, that he ought thoroughly to sound the temper of his soldiers,
he considered with himself how this was to be accomplished with a genuine
result. Tribunes and centurions, he knew, oftener reported what was welcome
than what was true; freedmen had slavish spirits, friends a love of flattery.
If an assembly were called, there too the lead of a few was followed by
the shout of the many. He must probe their inmost thoughts, when they were
uttering their hopes and fears at the military mess, among themselves,
and unwatched. 
[2.13] At nightfall, leaving his tent
of augury by a secret exit, unknown to the sentries, with one companion,
his shoulders covered with a wild beast's skin, he visited the camp streets,
stood by the tents, and enjoyed the men's talk about himself, as one extolled
his noble rank, another, his handsome person, nearly all of them, his endurance,
his gracious manner and the evenness of his temper, whether he was jesting
or was serious, while they acknowledged that they ought to repay him with
their gratitude in battle, and at the same time sacrifice to a glorious
vengeance the perfidious violators of peace. Meanwhile one of the enemy,
acquainted with the Roman tongue, spurred his horse up to the entrenchments,
and in a loud voice promised in the name of Arminius to all deserters wives
and lands with daily pay of a hundred sesterces as long as war lasted.
The insult fired the wrath of the legions. "Let daylight come,"
they said, "let battle be given. The soldiers will possess themselves
of the lands of the Germans and will carry off their wives. We hail the
omen; we mean the women and riches of the enemy to be our spoil."
About midday there was a skirmishing attack on our camp, without any discharge
of missiles, when they saw the cohorts in close array before the lines
and no sign of carelessness. 
[2.14] The same night brought with
it a cheering dream to Germanicus. He saw himself engaged in sacrifice,
and his robe being sprinkled with the sacred blood, another more beautiful
was given him by the hands of his grandmother Augusta. Encouraged by the
omen and finding the auspices favourable, he called an assembly, and explained
the precautions which wisdom suggested as suitable for the impending battle.
"It is not," he said, "plains only which are good for the
fighting of Roman soldiers, but woods and forest passes, if science be
used. For the huge shields and unwieldly lances of the barbarians cannot,
amid trunks of trees and brushwood that springs from the ground, be so
well managed as our javelins and swords and closefitting armour. Shower
your blows thickly; strike at the face with your swords' points. The German
has neither cuirass nor helmet; even his shield is not strengthened with
leather or steel, but is of osiers woven together or of thin and painted
board. If their first line is armed with spears, the rest have only weapons
hardened by fire or very short. Again, though their frames are terrible
to the eye and formidable in a brief onset, they have no capacity of enduring
wounds; without, any shame at the disgrace, without any regard to their
leaders, they quit the field and flee; they quail under disaster, just
as in success they forget alike divine and human laws. If in your weariness
of land and sea you desire an end of service, this battle prepares the
way to it. The Elbe is now nearer than the Rhine, and there is no war beyond,
provided only you enable me, keeping close as I do to my father's and my
uncle's footsteps, to stand a conqueror on the same spot." 
[2.15] The general's speech was followed
by enthusiasm in the soldiers, and the signal for battle was given. Nor
were Arminius and the other German chiefs slow to call their respective
clansmen to witness that "these Romans were the most cowardly fugitives
out of Varus's army, men who rather than endure war had taken to mutiny.
Half of them have their backs covered with wounds; half are once again
exposing limbs battered by waves and storms to a foe full of fury, and
to hostile deities, with no hope of advantage. They have, in fact, had
recourse to a fleet and to a trackless ocean, that their coming might be
unopposed, their flight unpursued. But when once they have joined conflict
with us, the help of winds or oars will be unavailing to the vanquished.
Remember only their greed, their cruelty, their pride. Is anything left
for us but to retain our freedom or to die before we are enslaved? 
[2.16] When they were thus roused and
were demanding battle, their chiefs led them down into a plain named Idistavisus.
It winds between the Visurgis and a hill range, its breadth varying as
the river banks recede or the spurs of the hills project on it. In their
rear rose a forest, with the branches rising to a great height, while there
were clear spaces between the trunks. The barbarian army occupied the plain
and the outskirts of the wood. The Cherusci were posted by themselves on
the high ground, so as to rush down on the Romans during the battle. Our
army advanced in the following order. The auxiliary Gauls and Germans were
in the van, then the foot-archers, after them, four legions and Caesar
himself with two praetorian cohorts and some picked cavalry. Next came
as many other legions, and light-armed troops with horse-bowmen, and the
remaining cohorts of the allies. The men were quite ready and prepared
to form in line of battle according to their marching order. 
[2.17] Caesar, as soon as he saw the
Cheruscan bands which in their impetuous spirit had rushed to the attack,
ordered the finest of his cavalry to charge them in flank, Stertinius with
the other squadrons to make a detour and fall on their rear, promising
himself to come up in good time. Meanwhile there was a most encouraging
augury. Eight eagles, seen to fly towards the woods and to enter them,
caught the general's eye. "Go," he exclaimed, "follow the
Roman birds, the true deities of our legions." At the same moment
the infantry charged, and the cavalry which had been sent on in advance
dashed on the rear and the flanks. And, strange to relate, two columns
of the enemy fled in opposite directions, that, which had occupied the
wood, rushing into the open, those who had been drawn up on the plains,
into the wood. The Cherusci, who were between them, were dislodged from
the hills, while Arminius, conspicuous among them by gesture, voice, and
a wound he had received, kept up the fight. He had thrown himself on our
archers and was on the point of breaking through them, when the cohorts
of the Raeti, Vendelici, and Gauls faced his attack. By a strong bodily
effort, however, and a furious rush of his horse, he made his way through
them, having smeared his face with his blood, that he might not be known.
Some have said that he was recognised by Chauci serving among the Roman
auxiliaries, who let him go. Inguiomerus owed his escape to similar courage
or treachery. The rest were cut down in every direction. Many in attempting
to swim across the Visurgis were overwhelmed under a storm of missiles
or by the force of the current, lastly, by the rush of fugitives and the
falling in of the banks. Some in their ignominious flight climbed the tops
of trees, and as they were hiding themselves in the boughs, archers were
brought up and they were shot for sport. Others were dashed to the ground
by the felling of the trees. 
[2.18] It was a great victory and without
bloodshed to us. From nine in the morning to nightfall the enemy were slaughtered,
and ten miles were covered with arms and dead bodies, while there were
found amid the plunder the chains which the Germans had brought with them
for the Romans, as though the issue were certain. The soldiers on the battle
field hailed Tiberius as Imperator, and raised a mound on which arms were
piled in the style of a trophy, with the names of the conquered tribes
inscribed beneath them. 
[2.19] That sight caused keener grief
and rage among the Germans than their wounds, their mourning, and their
losses. Those who but now were preparing to quit their settlements and
to retreat to the further side of the Elbe, longed for battle and flew
to arms. Common people and chiefs, young and old, rushed on the Roman army,
and spread disorder. At last they chose a spot closed in by a river and
by forests, within which was a narrow swampy plain. The woods too were
surrounded by a bottomless morass, only on one side of it the Angrivarii
had raised a broad earthwork, as a boundary between themselves and the
Cherusci. Here their infantry was ranged. Their cavalry they concealed
in neighbouring woods, so as to be on the legions' rear, as soon as they
entered the forest. 
[2.20] All this was known to Caesar.
He was acquainted with their plans, their positions, with what met the
eye, and what was hidden, and he prepared to turn the enemy's stratagems
to their own destruction. To Seius Tubero, his chief officer, he assigned
the cavalry and the plain. His infantry he drew up so that part might advance
on level ground into the forest, and part clamber up the earthwork which
confronted them. He charged himself with what was the specially difficult
operation, leaving the rest to his officers. Those who had the level ground
easily forced a passage. Those who had to assault the earthwork encountered
heavy blows from above, as if they were scaling a wall. The general saw
how unequal this close fighting was, and having withdrawn his legions to
a little distance, ordered the slingers and artillerymen to discharge a
volley of missiles and scatter the enemy. Spears were hurled from the engines,
and the more conspicuous were the defenders of the position, the more the
wounds with which they were driven from it. Caesar with some praetorian
cohorts was the first, after the storming of the ramparts, to dash into
the woods. There they fought at close quarters. A morass was in the enemy's
rear, and the Romans were hemmed in by the river or by the hills. Both
were in a desperate plight from their position; valour was their only hope,
victory their only safety. 
[2.21] The Germans were equally brave,
but they were beaten by the nature of the fighting and of the weapons,
for their vast host in so confined a space could neither thrust out nor
recover their immense lances, or avail themselves of their nimble movements
and lithe frames, forced as they were to a close engagement. Our soldiers,
on the other hand, with their shields pressed to their breasts, and their
hands grasping their sword-hilts, struck at the huge limbs and exposed
faces of the barbarians, cutting a passage through the slaughtered enemy,
for Arminius was now less active, either from incessant perils, or because
he was partially disabled by his recent wound. As for Inguiomerus, who
flew hither and thither over the battlefield, it was fortune rather than
courage which forsook him. Germanicus, too, that he might be the better
known, took his helmet off his head and begged his men to follow up the
slaughter, as they wanted not prisoners, and the utter destruction of the
nation would be the only conclusion of the war. And now, late in the day,
he withdrew one of his legions from the field, to intrench a camp, while
the rest till nightfall glutted themselves with the enemy's blood. Our
cavalry fought with indecisive success. 
[2.22] Having publicly praised his
victorious troops, Caesar raised a pile of arms with the proud inscription,
"The army of Tiberius Caesar, after thoroughly conquering the tribes
between the Rhine and the Elbe, has dedicated this monument to Mars, Jupiter,
and Augustus." He added nothing about himself, fearing jealousy, or
thinking that the conciousness of the achievement was enough. Next he charged
Stertinius with making war on the Angrivarii, but they hastened to surrender.
And, as suppliants, by refusing nothing, they obtained a full pardon. 
[2.23] When, however, summer was at
its height some of the legions were sent back overland into winter-quarters,
but most of them Caesar put on board the fleet and brought down the river
Amisia to the ocean. At first the calm waters merely sounded with the oars
of a thousand vessels or were ruffled by the sailing ships. Soon, a hailstorm
bursting from a black mass of clouds, while the waves rolled hither and
thither under tempestuous gales from every quarter, rendered clear sight
impossible, and the steering difficult, while our soldiers, terrorstricken
and without any experience of disasters on the sea, by embarrassing the
sailors or giving them clumsy aid, neutralized the services of the skilled
crews. After a while, wind and wave shifted wholly to the south, and from
the hilly lands and deep rivers of Germany came with a huge line of rolling
clouds, a strong blast, all the more frightful from the frozen north which
was so near to them, and instantly caught and drove the ships hither and
thither into the open ocean, or on islands with steep cliffs or which hidden
shoals made perilous. these they just escaped, with difficulty, and when
the tide changed and bore them the same way as the wind, they could not
hold to their anchors or bale out the water which rushed in upon them.
Horses, beasts of burden, baggage, were thrown overboard, in order to lighten
the hulls which leaked copiously through their sides, while the waves too
dashed over them. 
[2.24] As the ocean is stormier than
all other seas, and as Germany is conspicuous for the terrors of its climate,
so in novelty and extent did this disaster transcend every other, for all
around were hostile coasts, or an expanse so vast and deep that it is thought
to be the remotest shoreless sea. Some of the vessels were swallowed up;
many were wrecked on distant islands, and the soldiers, finding there no
form of human life, perished of hunger, except some who supported existence
on carcases of horses washed on the same shores. Germanicus's trireme alone
reached the country of the Chauci. Day and night, on those rocks and promontories
he would incessantly exclaim that he was himself responsible for this awful
ruin, and friends scarce restrained him from seeking death in the same
sea. At last, as the tide ebbed and the wind blew favourably, the shattered
vessels with but few rowers, or clothing spread as sails, some towed by
the more powerful, returned, and Germanicus, having speedily repaired them,
sent them to search the islands. Many by that means were recovered. The
Angrivarii, who had lately been admitted to our alliance, restored to us
several had ransomed from the inland tribes. Some had been carried to Britain
and were sent back by the petty chiefs. Every one, as he returned from
some far-distant region, told of wonders, of violent hurricanes, and unknown
birds, of monsters of the sea, of forms half-human, half beast-like, things
they had really seen or in their terror believed. 
[2.25] Meanwhile the rumoured loss
of the fleet stirred the Germans to hope for war, as it did Caesar to hold
them down. He ordered Caius Silius with thirty thousand infantry and three
thousand cavalry to march against the Chatti. He himself, with a larger
army, invaded the Marsi, whose leader, Mallovendus, whom we had lately
admitted to surrender, pointed out a neighbouring wood, where, he said,
an eagle of one of Varus's legions was buried and guarded only by a small
force. Immediately troops were despatched to draw the enemy from his position
by appearing in his front, others, to hem in his rear and open the ground.
Fortune favoured both. So Germanicus, with increased energy, advanced into
the country, laying it waste, and utterly ruining a foe who dared not encounter
him, or who was instantly defeated wherever he resisted, and, as we learnt
from prisoners, was never more panic-stricken. The Romans, they declared,
were invincible, rising superior to all calamities; for having thrown away
a fleet, having lost their arms, after strewing the shores with the carcases
of horses and of men, they had rushed to the attack with the same courage,
with equal spirit, and, seemingly, with augmented numbers. 
[2.26] The soldiers were then led back
into winter-quarters, rejoicing in their hearts at having been compensated
for their disasters at sea by a successful expedition. They were helped
too by Caesar's bounty, which made good whatever loss any one declared
he had suffered. It was also regarded as a certainty that the enemy were
wavering and consulting on negotiations for peace, and that, with an additional
campaign next summer the war might be ended. Tiberius, however, in repeated
letters advised Germanicus to return for the triumph decreed him. "He
had now had enough of success, enough of disaster. He had fought victorious
battles on a great scale; he should also remember those losses which the
winds and waves had inflicted, and which, though due to no fault of the
general, were still grievous and shocking. He, Tiberius, had himself been
sent nine times by Augustus into Germany, and had done more by policy than
by arms. By this means the submission of the Sugambri had been secured,
and the Suevi with their king Maroboduus had been forced into peace. The
Cherusci too and the other insurgent tribes, since the vengeance of Rome
had been satisfied, might be left to their internal feuds." When Germanicus
requested a year for the completion of his enterprise, Tiberius put a severer
pressure on his modesty by offering him a second consulship, the functions
of which he was to discharge in person. He also added that if war must
still be waged, he might as well leave some materials for renown to his
brother Drusus, who, as there was then no other enemy, could win only in
Germany the imperial title and the triumphal laurel. Germanicus hesitated
no longer, though he saw that this was a pretence, and that he was hurried
away through jealousy from the glory he had already acquired. 
[2.27] About the same time Libo Drusus,
of the family of Scribonii, was accused of revolutionary schemes. I will
explain, somewhat minutely, the beginning, progress, and end of this affair,
since then first were originated those practices which for so many years
have eaten into the heart of the State. Firmius Catus, a senator, an intimate
friend of Libo's, prompted the young man, who was thoughtless and an easy
prey to delusions, to resort to astrologers' promises, magical rites, and
interpreters of dreams, dwelling ostentatiously on his great-grandfather
Pompeius, his aunt Scribonia, who had formerly been wife of Augustus, his
imperial cousins, his house crowded with ancestral busts, and urging him
to extravagance and debt, himself the companion of his profligacy and desperate
embarrassments, thereby to entangle him in all the more proofs of guilt.

[2.28] As soon as he found enough witnesses,
with some slaves who knew the facts, he begged an audience of the emperor,
after first indicating the crime and the criminal through Flaccus Vescularius,
a Roman knight, who was more intimate with Tiberius than himself. Caesar,
without disregarding the information, declined an interview, for the communication,
he said, might be conveyed to him through the same messenger, Flaccus.
Meanwhile he conferred the praetorship on Libo and often invited him to
his table, showing no unfriendliness in his looks or anger in his words
(so thoroughly had he concealed his resentment); and he wished to know
all his saying and doings, though it was in his power to stop them, till
one Junius, who had been tampered with by Libo for the purpose of evoking
by incantations spirits of the dead, gave information to Fulcinius Trio.
Trio's ability was conspicuous among informers, as well as his eagerness
for an evil notoriety. He at once pounced on the accused, went to the consuls,
and demanded an inquiry before the Senate. The Senators were summoned,
with a special notice that they must consult on a momentous and terrible
matter. 
[2.29] Libo meanwhile, in mourning
apparel and accompanied by ladies of the highest rank, went to house after
house, entreating his relatives, and imploring some eloquent voice to ward
off his perils; which all refused, on different pretexts, but from the
same apprehension. On the day the Senate met, jaded with fear and mental
anguish, or, as some have related, feigning illness, he was carried in
a litter to the doors of the Senate House, and leaning on his brother he
raised his hands and voice in supplication to Tiberius, who received him
with unmoved countenance. The emperor then read out the charges and the
accusers' names, with such calmness as not to seem to soften or aggravate
the accusations. 
[2.30] Besides Trio and Catus, Fonteius
Agrippa and Caius Vibius were among his accusers, and claimed with eager
rivalry the privilege of conducting the case for the prosecution, till
Vibius, as they would not yield one to the other, and Libo had entered
without counsel, offered to state the charges against him singly, and produced
an extravagantly absurd accusation, according to which Libo had consulted
persons whether he would have such wealth as to be able to cover the Appian
road as far as Brundisium with money. There were other questions of the
same sort, quite senseless and idle; if leniently regarded, pitiable. But
there was one paper in Libo's handwriting, so the prosecutor alleged, with
the names of Caesars and of Senators, to which marks were affixed of dreadful
or mysterious significance. When the accused denied this, it was decided
that his slaves who recognised the writing should be examined by torture.
As an ancient statute of the Senate forbade such inquiry in a case affecting
a master's life, Tiberius, with his cleverness in devising new law, ordered
Libo's slaves to be sold singly to the State-agent, so that, forsooth,
without an infringement of the Senate's decree, Libo might be tried on
their evidence. As a consequence, the defendant asked an adjournment till
next day, and having gone home he charged his kinsman, Publius Quirinus,
with his last prayer to the emperor. 
[2.31] The answer was that he should
address himself to the Senate. Meanwhile his house was surrounded with
soldiers; they crowded noisily even about the entrance, so that they could
be heard and seen; when Libo, whose anguish drove him from the very banquet
he had prepared as his last gratification, called for a minister of death,
grasped the hands of his slaves, and thrust a sword into them. In their
confusion, as they shrank back, they overturned the lamp on the table at
his side, and in the darkness, now to him the gloom of death, he aimed
two blows at a vital part. At the groans of the falling man his freedmen
hurried up, and the soldiers, seeing the bloody deed, stood aloof. Yet
the prosecution was continued in the Senate with the same persistency,
and Tiberius declared on oath that he would have interceded for his life,
guilty though he was, but for his hasty suicide. 
[2.32] His property was divided among
his accusers, and praetorships out of the usual order were conferred on
those who were of senators' rank. Cotta Messalinus then proposed that Libo's
bust should not be carried in the funeral procession of any of his descendants;
and Cneius Lentulus, that no Scribonius should assume the surname of Drusus.
Days of public thanksgiving were appointed on the suggestion of Pomponius
Flaccus. Offerings were given to Jupiter, Mars, and Concord, and the 13th
day of September, on which Libo had killed himself, was to be observed
as a festival, on the motion of Gallus Asinius, Papius Mutilus, and Lucius
Apronius. I have mentioned the proposals and sycophancy of these men, in
order to bring to light this old-standing evil in the State. Decrees of
the Senate were also passed to expel from Italy astrologers and magicians.
One of their number, Lucius Pituanius, was hurled from the Rock. Another,
Publius Marcius, was executed, according to ancient custom, by the consuls
outside the Esquiline Gate, after the trumpets had been bidden to sound.

[2.33] On the next day of the Senate's
meeting much was said against the luxury of the country by Quintus Haterius,
an ex-consul, and by Octavius Fronto, an ex-praetor. It was decided that
vessels of solid gold should not be made for the serving of food, and that
men should not disgrace themselves with silken clothing from the East.
Fronto went further, and insisted on restrictions being put on plate, furniture,
and household establishments. It was indeed still usual with the Senators,
when it was their turn to vote, to suggest anything they thought for the
State's advantage. Gallus Asinius argued on the other side. "With
the growth of the empire private wealth too," he said, "had increased,
and there was nothing new in this, but it accorded with the fashions of
the earliest antiquity. Riches were one thing with the Fabricii, quite
another with the Scipios. The State was the standard of everything; when
it was poor, the homes of the citizens were humble; when it reached such
magnificence, private grandeur increased. In household establishments,
and plate, and in whatever was provided for use, there was neither excess
nor parsimony except in relation to the fortune of the possessor. A distinction
had been made in the assessments of Senators and knights, not because they
differed naturally, but that the superiority of the one class in places
in the theatre, in rank and in honour, might be also maintained in everything
else which insured mental repose and bodily recreation, unless indeed men
in the highest position were to undergo more anxieties and more dangers,
and to be at the same time deprived of all solace under those anxieties
and dangers." Gallus gained a ready assent, under these specious phrases,
by a confession of failings with which his audience symphathised. And Tiberius
too had added that this was not a time for censorship, and that if there
were any declension in manners, a promoter of reform would not be wanting.

[2.34] During this debate Lucius Piso,
after exclaiming against the corruption of the courts, the bribery of judges,
the cruel threats of accusations from hired orators, declared that he would
depart and quit the capital, and that he meant to live in some obscure
and distant rural retreat. At the same moment he rose to leave the Senate
House. Tiberius was much excited, and though he pacified Piso with gentle
words, he also strongly urged his relatives to stop his departure by their
influence or their entreaties. Soon afterwards this same Piso gave an equal
proof of a fearless sense of wrong by suing Urgulania, whom Augusta's friendship
had raised above the law. Neither did Urgulania obey the summons, for in
defiance of Piso she went in her litter to the emperor's house; nor did
Piso give way, though Augusta complained that she was insulted and her
majesty slighted. Tiberius, to win popularity by so humouring his mother
as to say that he would go to the praetor's court and support Urgulania,
went forth from the palace, having ordered soldiers to follow him at a
distance. He was seen, as the people thronged about him, to wear a calm
face, while he prolonged his time on the way with various conversations,
till at last when Piso's relatives tried in vain to restrain him, Augusta
directed the money which was claimed to be handed to him. This ended the
affair, and Piso, in consequence, was not dishonoured, and the emperor
rose in reputation. Urgulania's influence, however, was so formidable to
the State, that in a certain cause which was tried by the Senate she would
not condescend to appear as a witness. The praetor was sent to question
her at her own house, although the Vestal virgins, according to ancient
custom, were heard in the courts, before judges, whenever they gave evidence.

[2.35] I should say nothing of the
adjournment of public business in this year, if it were not worth while
to notice the conflicting opinions of Cneius Piso and Asinius Gallus on
the subject. Piso, although the emperor had said that he would be absent,
held that all the more ought the business to be transacted, that the State
might have honour of its Senate and knights being able to perform their
duties in the sovereign's absence. Gallus, as Piso had forestalled him
in the display of freedom, maintained that nothing was sufficiently impressive
or suitable to the majesty of the Roman people, unless done before Caesar
and under his very eyes, and that therefore the gathering from all Italy
and the influx from the provinces ought to be reserved for his presence.
Tiberius listened to this in silence, and the matter was debated on both
sides in a sharp controversy. The business, however, was adjourned. 
[2.36] A dispute then arose between
Gallus and the emperor. Gallus proposed that the elections of magistrates
should be held every five years, and that the commanders of the legions
who before receiving a praetorship discharged this military service should
at once become praetorselect, the emperor nominating twelve candidates
every year. It was quite evident that this motion had a deeper meaning
and was an attempt to explore the secrets of imperial policy. Tiberius,
however, argued as if his power would be thus increased. "It would,"
he said, "be trying to his moderation to have to elect so many and
to put off so many. He scarcely avoided giving offence from year to year,
even though a candidate's rejection was solaced by the near prospect of
office. What hatred would be incurred from those whose election was deferred
for five years! How could he foresee through so long an interval what would
be a man's temper, or domestic relations, or estate? Men became arrogant
even with this annual appointment. What would happen if their thoughts
were fixed on promotion for five years? It was in fact a multiplying of
the magistrates five-fold, and a subversion of the laws which had prescribed
proper periods for the exercise of the candidate's activity and the seeking
or securing office. With this seemingly conciliatory speech he retained
the substance of power. 
[2.37] He also increased the incomes
of some of the Senators. Hence it was the more surprising that he listened
somewhat disdainfully to the request of Marcus Hortalus, a youth of noble
rank in conspicuous poverty. He was the grandson of the orator Hortensius,
and had been induced by Augustus, on the strength of a gift of a million
sesterces, to marry and rear children, that one of our most illustrious
families might not become extinct. Accordingly, with his four sons standing
at the doors of the Senate House, the Senate then sitting in the palace,
when it was his turn to speak he began to address them as follows, his
eyes fixed now on the statue of Hortensius which stood among those of the
orators, now on that of Augustus:- "Senators, these whose numbers
and boyish years you behold I have reared, not by my own choice, but because
the emperor advised me. At the same time, my ancestors deserved to have
descendants. For myself, not having been able in these altered times to
receive or acquire wealth or popular favour, or that eloquence which has
been the hereditary possession of our house, I was satisfied if my narrow
means were neither a disgrace to myself nor burden to others. At the emperor's
bidding I married. Behold the offspring and progeny of a succession of
consuls and dictators. Not to excite odium do I recall such facts, but
to win compassion. While you prosper, Caesar, they will attain such promotion
as you shall bestow. Meanwhile save from penury the great-grandsons of
Quintus Hortensius, the foster-children of Augustus." 
[2.38] The Senate's favourable bias
was an incitement to Tiberius to offer prompt opposition, which he did
in nearly these words: - "If all poor men begin to come here and to
beg money for their children, individuals will never be satisfied, and
the State will be bankrupt. Certainly our ancestors did not grant the privilege
of occasionally proposing amendments or of suggesting, in our turn for
speaking, something for the general advantage in order that we might in
this house increase our private business and property, thereby bringing
odium on the Senate and on emperors whether they concede or refuse their
bounty. In fact, it is not a request, but an importunity, as utterly unreasonable
as it is unforeseen, for a senator, when the house has met on other matters,
to rise from his place and, pleading the number and age of his children,
put a pressure on the delicacy of the Senate, then transfer the same constraint
to myself, and, as it were, break open the exchequer, which, if we exhaust
it by improper favouritism, will have to be replenished by crimes. Money
was given you, Hortalus, by Augustus, but without solicitation, and not
on the condition of its being always given. Otherwise industry will languish
and idleness be encouraged, if a man has nothing to fear, nothing to hope
from himself, and every one, in utter recklessness, will expect relief
from others, thus becoming useless to himself and a burden to me."
These and like remarks, though listened to with assent by those who make
it a practice to eulogise everything coming from sovereigns, both good
and bad, were received by the majority in silence or with suppressed murmurs.
Tiberius perceived it, and having paused a while, said that he had given
Hortalus his answer, but that if the senators thought it right, he would
bestow two hundred thousand sesterces on each of his children of the male
sex. The others thanked him; Hortalus said nothing, either from alarm or
because even in his reduced fortunes he clung to his hereditary nobility.
Nor did Tiberius afterwards show any pity, though the house of Hortensius
sank into shameful poverty. 
[2.39] That same year the daring of
a single slave, had it not been promptly checked, would have ruined the
State by discord and civil war. A servant of Postumus Agrippa, Clemens
by name, having ascertained that Augustus was dead, formed a design beyond
a slave's conception, of going to the island of Planasia and seizing Agrippa
by craft or force and bringing him to the armies of Germany. The slowness
of a merchant vessel thwarted his bold venture. Meanwhile the murder of
Agrippa had been perpetrated, and then turning his thoughts to a greater
and more hazardous enterprise, he stole the ashes of the deceased, sailed
to Cosa, a promontory of Etruria, and there hid himself in obscure places
till his hair and beard were long. In age and figure he was not unlike
his master. Then through suitable emissaries who shared his secret, it
was rumoured that Agrippa was alive, first in whispered gossip, soon, as
is usual with forbidden topics, in vague talk which found its way to the
credulous ears of the most ignorant people or of restless and revolutionary
schemers. He himself went to the towns, as the day grew dark, without letting
himself be seen publicly or remaining long in the same places, but, as
he knew that truth gains strength by notoriety and time, falsehood by precipitancy
and vagueness, he would either withdraw himself from publicity or else
forestall it. 
[2.40] It was rumoured meanwhile throughout
Italy, and was believed at Rome, that Agrippa had been saved by the blessing
of Heaven. Already at Ostia, where he had arrived, he was the centre of
interest to a vast concourse as well as to secret gatherings in the capital,
while Tiberius was distracted by the doubt whether he should crush this
slave of his by military force or allow time to dissipate a silly credulity.
Sometimes he thought that he must overlook nothing, sometimes that he need
not be afraid of everything, his mind fluctuating between shame and terror.
At last he entrusted the affair to Sallustius Crispus, who chose two of
his dependants (some say they were soldiers) and urged them to go to him
as pretended accomplices, offering money and promising faithful companionship
in danger. They did as they were bidden; then, waiting for an unguarded
hour of night, they took with them a sufficient force, and having bound
and gagged him, dragged him to the palace. When Tiberius asked him how
he had become Agrippa, he is said to have replied, "As you became
Caesar." He could not be forced to divulge his accomplices. Tiberius
did not venture on a public execution, but ordered him to be slain in a
private part of the palace and his body to be secretly removed. And although
many of the emperor's household and knights and senators were said to have
supported him with their wealth and helped him with their counsels, no
inquiry was made. 
[2.41] At the close of the year was
consecrated an arch near the temple of Saturn to commemorate the recovery
of the standards lost with Varus, under the leadership of Germanicus and
the auspices of Tiberius; a temple of Fors Fortuna, by the Tiber, in the
gardens which Caesar, the dictator, bequeathed to the Roman people; a chapel
to the Julian family, and statues at Bovillae to the Divine Augustus. In
the consulship of Caius Caecilius and Lucius Pomponius, Germanicus Caesar,
on the 26th day of May, celebrated his triumph over the Cherusci, Chatti,
and Angrivarii, and the other tribes which extend as far as the Elbe. There
were borne in procession spoils, prisoners, representations of the mountains,
the rivers and battles; and the war, seeing that he had been forbidden
to finish it, was taken as finished. The admiration of the beholders was
heightened by the striking comeliness of the general and the chariot which
bore his five children. Still, there was a latent dread when they remembered
how unfortunate in the case of Drusus, his father, had been the favour
of the crowd; how his uncle Marcellus, regarded by the city populace with
passionate enthusiasm, had been snatched from them while yet a youth, and
how short-lived and ill-starred were the attachments of the Roman people.

[2.42] Tiberius meanwhile in the name
of Germanicus gave every one of the city populace three hundred sesterces,
and nominated himself his colleague in the consulship. Still, failing to
obtain credit for sincere affection, he resolved to get the young prince
out of the way, under pretence of conferring distinction, and for this
he invented reasons, or eagerly fastened on such as chance presented. King
Archelaus had been in possession of Cappadocia for fifty years, and Tiberius
hated him because he had not shown him any mark of respect while he was
at Rhodes. This neglect of Archelaus was not due to pride, but was suggested
by the intimate friends of Augustus, because, when Caius Caesar was in
his prime and had charge of the affairs of the East, Tiberius's friendship
was thought to be dangerous. When, after the extinction of the family of
the Caesars, Tiberius acquired the empire, he enticed Archelaus by a letter
from his mother, who without concealing her son's displeasure promised
mercy if he would come to beg for it. Archelaus, either quite unsuspicious
of treachery, or dreading compulsion, should it be thought that he saw
through it, hastened to Rome. There he was received by a pitiless emperor,
and soon afterwards was arraigned before the Senate. In his anguish and
in the weariness of old age, and from being unused, as a king, to equality,
much less to degradation, not, certainly, from fear of the charges fabricated
against him, he ended his life, by his own act or by a natural death. His
kingdom was reduced into a province, and Caesar declared that, with its
revenues, the one per cent. tax could be lightened, which, for the future,
he fixed at one-half per cent. During the same time, on the deaths of Antiochus
and Philopator, kings respectively of the Commageni and Cilicians, these
nations became excited, a majority desiring the Roman rule, some, that
of their kings. The provinces too of Syria and Judaea, exhausted by their
burdens, implored a reduction of tribute. 
[2.43] Tiberius accordingly discussed
these matters and the affairs of Armenia, which I have already related,
before the Senate. "The commotions in the East," he said, "could
be quieted only by the wisdom, of Germanicus; own life was on the decline,
and Drusus had not yet reached his maturity." Thereupon, by a decree
of the Senate, the provinces beyond sea were entrusted to Germanicus, with
greater powers wherever he went than were given to those who obtained their
provinces by lot or by the emperor's appointment. Tiberius had however
removed from Syria Creticus Silanus, who was connected by a close tie with
Germanicus, his daughter being betrothed to Nero, the eldest of Germanicus's
children. He appointed to it Cneius Piso, a man of violent temper, without
an idea of obedience, with indeed a natural arrogance inherited from his
father Piso, who in the civil war supported with the most energetic aid
against Caesar the reviving faction in Africa, then embraced the cause
of Brutus and Cassius, and, when suffered to return, refrained from seeking
promotion till, he was actually solicited to accept a consulship offered
by Augustus. But beside the father's haughty temper there was also the
noble rank and wealth of his wife Plancina, to inflame his ambition. He
would hardly be the inferior of Tiberius, and as for Tiberius's children,
he looked down on them as far beneath him. He thought it a certainty that
he had been chosen to govern Syria in order to thwart the aspirations of
Germanicus. Some believed that he had even received secret instructions
from Tiberius, and it was beyond a question that Augusta, with feminine
jealousy, had suggested to Plancina calumnious insinuations against Agrippina.
For there was division and discord in the court, with unexpressed partialities
towards either Drusus or Germanicus. Tiberius favoured Drusus, as his.
son and born of his own blood. As for Germanicus, his uncle's estrangement
had increased the affection which all others felt for him, and there was
the fact too that he had an advantage in the illustrious rank of his mother's
family, among whom he could point to his grandfather Marcus Antonius and
to his great-uncle Augustus. Drusus, on the other hand, had for his great-grandfather
a Roman knight, Pomponius Atticus, who seemed to disgrace the ancestral
images of the Claudii. Again, the consort of Germanicus, Agrippina, in
number of children and in character, was superior to Livia, the wife of
Drusus. Yet the brothers were singularly united, and were wholly unaffected
by the rivalries of their kinsfolk. 
[2.44] Soon afterwards Drusus was sent
into Illyricum to be familiarised with military service, and to win the
goodwill of the army. Tiberius also thought that it was better for the
young prince, who was being demoralised by the luxury of the capital, to
serve in a camp, while he felt himself the safer with both his sons in
command of legions. However, he made a pretext of the Suevi, who were imploring
help against the Cherusci. For when the Romans had departed and they were
free from the fear of an invader, these tribes, according to the custom
of the race, and then specially as rivals in fame, had turned their arms
against each other. The strength of the two nations, the valour of their
chiefs were equal. But the title of king rendered Maroboduus hated among
his countrymen, while Arminius was regarded with favour as the champion
of freedom. 
[2.45] Thus it was not only the Cherusci
and their allies, the old soldiers of Arminius, who took up arms, but even
the Semnones and Langobardi from the kingdom of Maroboduus revolted to
that chief. With this addition he must have had an overwhelming superiority,
had not Inguiomerus deserted with a troop of his dependants to Maroboduus,
simply for the reason that the aged uncle scorned to obey a brother's youthful
son. The armies were drawn up, with equal confidence on both sides, and
there were not those desultory attacks or irregular bands, formerly so
common with the Germans. Prolonged warfare against us had accustomed them
to keep close to their standards, to have the support of reserves, and
to take the word of command from their generals. On this occasion Arminius,
who reviewed the whole field on horseback, as he rode up to each band,
boasted of regained freedom, of slaughtered legions, of spoils and weapons
wrested from the Romans, and still in the hands of many of his men. As
for Maroboduus, he called him a fugitive, who had no experience of battles,
who had sheltered himself in the recesses of the Hercynian forest and then
with presents and embassies sued for a treaty; a traitor to his country,
a satellite of Caesar, who deserved to be driven out, with rage as furious
as that with which they had slain Quintilius Varus. They should simply
remember their many battles, the result of which, with the final expulsion
of the Romans, sufficiently showed who could claim the crowning success
in war. 
[2.46] Nor did Maroboduus abstain from
vaunts about himself or from revilings of the foe. Clasping the hand of
Inguiomerus, he protested "that in the person before them centred
all the renown of the Cherusci, that to his counsels was due whatever had
ended successfully. Arminius in his infatuation and ignorance was taking
to himself the glory which belonged to another, for he had treacherously
surprised three unofficered legions and a general who had not an idea of
perfidy, to the great hurt of Germany and to his own disgrace, since his
wife and his son were still enduring slavery. As for himself, he had been
attacked by twelve legions led by Tiberius, and had preserved untarnished
the glory of the Germans, and then on equal terms the armies had parted.
He was by no means sorry that they had the matter in their own hands, whether
they preferred to war with all their might against Rome, or to accept a
bloodless peace." To these words, which roused the two armies, was
added the stimulus of special motives of their own. The Cherusci and Langobardi
were fighting for ancient renown or newly-won freedom; the other side for
the increase of their dominion. Never at any time was the shock of battle
more tremendous or the issue more doubtful, as the right wings of both
armies were routed. Further fighting was expected, when Maroboduus withdrew
his camp to the hills. This was a sign of discomfiture. He was gradually
stripped of his strength by desertions, and, having fled to the Marcomanni,
he sent envoys to Tiberius with entreaties for help. The answer was that
he had no right to invoke the aid of Roman arms against the Cherusci, when
he had rendered no assistance to the Romans in their conflict with the
same enemy. Drusus, however, was sent as I have related, to establish peace.

[2.47] That same year twelve famous
cities of Asia fell by an earthquake in the night, so that the destruction
was all the more unforeseen and fearful. Nor were there the means of escape
usual in, such a disaster, by rushing out into the open country, for there
people were swallowed up by the yawning earth. Vast mountains, it is said,
collapsed; what had been level ground seemed to be raised aloft, and fires
blazed out amid the ruin. The calamity fell most fatally on the inhabitants
of Sardis, and it attracted to them the largest share of sympathy. The
emperor promised ten million sesterces, and remitted for five years all
they paid to the exchequer or to the emperor's purse. Magnesia, under Mount
Sipylus, was considered to come next in loss and in need of help. The people
of Temnus, Philadelpheia, Aegae, Apollonis, the Mostenians, and Hyrcanian
Macedonians, as they were called, with the towns of Hierocaesarea, Myrina,
Cyme, and Tmolus, were; it was decided, to be exempted from tribute for
the same time, and some one was to be sent from the Senate to examine their
actual condition and to relieve them. Marcus Aletus, one of the expraetors,
was chosen, from a fear that, as an exconsul was governor of Asia, there
might be rivalry between men of equal rank, and consequent embarrassment.

[2.48] To his splendid public liberality
the emperor added bounties no less popular. The property of Aemilia Musa,
a rich woman who died intestate, on which the imperial treasury had a claim,
he handed over to Aemilius Lepidus, to whose family she appeared to belong;
and the estate of Patuleius, a wealthy Roman knight, though he was himself
left in part his heir, he gave to Marcus Servilius, whose name he discovered
in an earlier and unquestioned will. In both these cases he said that noble
rank ought to have the support of wealth. Nor did he accept a legacy from
any one unless he had earned it by friendship. Those who were strangers
to him, and who, because they were at enmity with others, made the emperor
their heir, he kept at a distance. While, however, he relieved the honourable
poverty of the virtuous, he expelled from the Senate or suffered voluntarily
to retire spendthrifts whose vices had brought them to penury, like Vibidius
Varro, Marius Nepos, Appius Appianus, Cornelius Sulla, and Quintus Vitellius.

[2.49] About the same time he dedicated
some temples of the gods, which had perished from age or from fire, and
which Augustus had begun to restore. These were temples to Liber, Libera,
and Ceres, near the Great Circus, which last Aulus Postumius, when Dictator,
had vowed; a temple to Flora in the same place, which had been built by
Lucius and Marcus Publicius, aediles, and a temple to Janus, which had
been erected in the vegetable market by Caius Duilius, who was the first
to make the Roman power successful at sea and to win a naval triumph over
the Carthaginians. A temple to Hope was consecrated by Germanicus; this
had been vowed by Atilius in that same war. 
[2.50] Meantime the law of treason
was gaining strength. Appuleia Varilia, grand-niece of Augustus, was accused
of treason by an informer for having ridiculed the Divine Augustus, Tiberius,
and Tiberius's mother, in some insulting remarks, and for having been convicted
of adultery, allied though she was to Caesar's house. Adultery, it was
thought, was sufficiently guarded against by the Julian law. As to the
charge of treason, the emperor insisted that it should be taken separately,
and that she should be condemned if she had spoken irreverently of Augustus.
Her insinuations against himself he did not wish to be the subject of judicial
inquiry. When asked by the consul what he thought of the unfavourable speeches
she was accused of having uttered against his mother, he said nothing.
Afterwards, on the next day of the Senate's meeting, he even begged in
his mother's name that no words of any kind spoken against her might in
any case be treated as criminal. He then acquitted Appuleia of treason.
For her adultery, he deprecated the severer penalty, and advised that she
should be removed by her kinsfolk, after the example of our forefathers,
to more than two hundred miles from Rome. Her paramour, Manlius, was forbidden
to live in Italy or Africa. 
[2.51] A contest then arose about the
election of a praetor in the room of Vipstanus Gallus, whom death had removed.
Germanicus and Drusus (for they were still at Rome) supported Haterius
Agrippa, a relative of Germanicus. Many, on the other hand, endeavoured
to make the number of children weigh most in favour of the candidates.
Tiberius rejoiced to see a strife in the Senate between his sons and the
law. Beyond question the law was beaten, but not at once, and only by a
few votes, in the same way as laws were defeated even when they were in
force. 
[2.52] In this same year a war broke
out in Africa, where the enemy was led by Tacfarinas. A Numidian by birth,
he had served as an auxiliary in the Roman camp, then becoming a deserter,
he at first gathered round him a roving band familiar with robbery, for
plunder and for rapine. After a while, he marshalled them like regular
soldiers, under standards and in troops, till at last he was regarded as
the leader, not of an undisciplined rabble, but of the Musulamian people.
This powerful tribe, bordering on the deserts of Africa, and even then
with none of the civilisation of cities, took up arms and drew their Moorish
neighbours into the war. These too had a leader, Mazippa. The army was
so divided that Tacfarinas kept the picked men who were armed in Roman
fashion within a camp, and familiarised them with a commander's authority,
while Mazippa, with light troops, spread around him fire, slaughter, and
consternation. They had forced the Ciniphii, a far from contemptible tribe,
into their cause, when Furius Camillus, proconsul of Africa, united in
one force a legion and all the regularly enlisted allies, and, with an
army insignificant indeed compared with the multitude of the Numidians
and Moors, marched against the enemy. There was nothing however which he
strove so much to avoid as their eluding an engagement out of fear. It
was by the hope of victory that they were lured on only to be defeated.
The legion was in the army's centre; the light cohorts and two cavalry
squadrons on its wings. Nor did Tacfarinas refuse battle. The Numidians
were routed, and after a number of years the name of Furius won military
renown. Since the days of the famous deliverer of our city and his son
Camillus, fame as a general had fallen to the lot of other branches of
the family, and the man of whom I am now speaking was regarded as an inexperienced
soldier. All the more willingly did Tiberius commemorate his achievements
in the Senate, and the Senators voted him the ornaments of triumph, an
honour which Camillus, because of his unambitious life, enjoyed without
harm. 
[2.53] In the following year Tiberius
held his third, Germanicus his second, consulship. Germanicus, however,
entered on the office at Nicopolis, a city of Achaia, whither he had arrived
by the coast of Illyricum, after having seen his brother Drusus, who was
then in Dalmatia, and endured a stormy voyage through the Adriatic and
afterwards the Ionian Sea. He accordingly devoted a few days to the repair
of his fleet, and, at the same time, in remembrance of his ancestors, he
visited the bay which the victory of Actium had made famous, the spoils
consecrated by Augustus, and the camp of Antonius. For, as I have said,
Augustus was his great-uncle, Antonius his grandfather, and vivid images
of disaster and success rose before him on the spot. Thence he went to
Athens, and there, as a concession to our treaty with an allied and ancient
city, he was attended only by a single lictor. The Greeks welcomed him
with the most elaborate honours, and brought forward all the old deeds
and sayings of their countrymen, to give additional dignity to their flattery.

[2.54] Thence he directed his course
to Euboea and crossed to Lesbos, where Agrippina for the last time was
confined and gave birth to Julia. He then penetrated to the remoter parts
of the province of Asia, visited the Thracian cities, Perinthus and Byzantium;
next, the narrow strait of the Propontis and the entrance of the Pontus,
from an anxious wish to become acquainted with those ancient and celebrated
localities. He gave relief, as he went, to provinces which had been exhausted
by internal feuds or by the oppressions of governors. In his return he
attempted to see the sacred mysteries of the Samothracians, but north winds
which he encountered drove him aside from his course. And so after visiting
Ilium and surveying a scene venerable from the vicissitudes of fortune
and as the birth-place of our people, he coasted back along Asia, and touched
at Colophon, to consult the oracle of the Clarian Apollo. There, it is
not a woman, as at Delphi, but a priest chosen from certain families, generally
from Miletus, who ascertains simply the number and the names of the applicants.
Then descending into a cave and drinking a draught from a secret spring,
the man, who is commonly ignorant of letters and of poetry, utters a response
in verse answering to the thoughts conceived in the mind of any inquirer.
It was said that he prophesied to Germanicus, in dark hints, as oracles
usually do, an early doom. 
[2.55] Cneius Piso meanwhile, that
he might the sooner enter on his design, terrified the citizens of Athens
by his tumultuous approach, and then reviled them in a bitter speech, with
indirect reflections on Germanicus, who, he said, had derogated from the
honour of the Roman name in having treated with excessive courtesy, not
the people of Athens, who indeed had been exterminated by repeated disasters,
but a miserable medley of tribes. As for the men before him, they had been
Mithridates's allies against Sulla, allies of Antonius against the Divine
Augustus. He taunted them too with the past, with their ill-success against
the Macedonians, their violence to their own countrymen, for he had his
own special grudge against this city, because they would not spare at his
intercession one Theophilus whom the Areopagus had condemned for forgery.
Then, by sailing rapidly and by the shortest route through the Cyclades,
he overtook Germanicus at the island of Rhodes. The prince was not ignorant
of the slanders with which he had been assailed, but his good nature was
such that when a storm arose and drove Piso on rocks, and his enemy's destruction
could have been referred to chance, he sent some triremes, by the help
of which he might be rescued from danger. But this did not soften Piso's
heart. Scarcely allowing a day's interval, he left Germanicus and hastened
on in advance. When he reached Syria and the legions, he began, by bribery
and favouritism, to encourage the lowest of the common soldiers, removing
the old centurions and the strict tribunes and assigning their places to
creatures of his own or to the vilest of the men, while he allowed idleness
in the camp, licentiousness in the towns, and the soldiers to roam through
the country and take their pleasure. He went such lengths in demoralizing
them, that he was spoken of in their vulgar talk as the father of the legions.
Plancina too, instead of keeping herself within the proper limits of a
woman, would be present at the evolutions of the cavalry and the manoeuvres
of the cohorts, and would fling insulting remarks at Agrippina and Germanicus.
Some even of the good soldiers were inclined to a corrupt compliance, as
a whispered rumour gained ground that the emperor was not averse to these
proceedings. Of all this Germanicus was aware, but his most pressing anxiety
was to be first in reaching Armenia. 
[2.56] This had been of old an unsettled
country from the character of its people and from its geographical position,
bordering, as it does, to a great extent on our provinces and stretching
far away to Media. It lies between two most mighty empires, and is very
often at strife with them, hating Rome and jealous of Parthia. It had at
this time no king, Vonones having been expelled, but the nation's likings
inclined towards Zeno, son of Polemon, king of Pontus, who from his earliest
infancy had imitated Armenian manners and customs, loving the chase, the
banquet, and all the popular pastimes of barbarians, and who had thus bound
to himself chiefs and people alike. Germanicus accordingly, in the city
of Artaxata, with the approval of the nobility, in the presence of a vast
multitude, placed the royal diadem on his head. All paid him homage and
saluted him as King Artaxias, which name they gave him from the city. Cappadocia
meanwhile, which had been reduced to the form of a province, received as
its governor Quintus Veranius. Some of the royal tributes were diminished,
to inspire hope of a gentler rule under Rome. Quintus Servaeus was appointed
to Commagene, then first put under a praetor's jurisdiction. 
[2.57] Successful as was this settlement
of all the interests of our allies, it gave Germanicus little joy because
of the arrogance of Piso. Though he had been ordered to march part of the
legions into Armenia under his own or his son's command, he had neglected
to do either. At length the two met at Cyrrhus, the winterquarters of the
tenth legion, each controlling his looks, Piso concealing his fears, Germanicus
shunning the semblance of menace. He was indeed, as I have said, a kind-hearted
man. But friends who knew well how to inflame a quarrel, exaggerated what
was true and added lies, alleging various charges against Piso, Plancina,
and their sons. At last, in the presence of a few intimate associates,
Germanicus addressed him in language such as suppressed resentment suggests,
to which Piso replied with haughty apologies. They parted in open enmity.
After this Piso was seldom seen at Caesar's tribunal, and if he ever sat
by him, it was with a sullen frown and a marked display of opposition.
He was even heard to say at a banquet given by the king of the Nabataeans,
when some golden crowns of great weight were presented to Caesar and Agrippina
and light ones to Piso and the rest, that the entertainment was given to
the son of a Roman emperor, not of a Parthian king. At the same time he
threw his crown on the ground, with a long speech against luxury, which,
though it angered Germanicus, he still bore with patience. 
[2.58] Meantime envoys arrived from
Artabanus, king of the Parthians. He had sent them to recall the memory
of friendship and alliance, with an assurance that he wished for a renewal
of the emblems of concord, and that he would in honour of Germanicus yield
the point of advancing to the bank of the Euphrates. He begged meanwhile
that Vonones might not be kept in Syria, where, by emissaries from an easy
distance, he might draw the chiefs of the tribes into civil strife. Germanicus'
answer as to the alliance between Rome and Parthia was dignified; as to
the king's visit and the respect shown to himself, it was graceful and
modest. Vonones was removed to Pompeiopolis, a city on the coast of Cilicia.
This was not merely a concession to the request of Artabanus, but was meant
as an affront to Piso, who had a special liking for Vonones, because of
the many attentions and presents by which he had won Plancina's favour.

[2.59] In the consulship of Marcus
Silanus and Lucius Norbanus, Germanicus set out for Egypt to study its
antiquities. His ostensible motive however was solicitude for the province.
He reduced the price of corn by opening the granaries, and adopted many
practices pleasing to the multitude. He would go about without soldiers,
with sandalled feet, and apparelled after the Greek fashion, in imitation
of Publius Scipio, who, it is said, habitually did the same in Sicily,
even when the war with Carthage was still raging. Tiberius having gently
expressed disapproval of his dress and manners, pronounced a very sharp
censure on his visit to Alexandria without the emperor's leave, contrary
to the regulations of Augustus. That prince, among other secrets of imperial
policy, had forbidden senators and Roman knights of the higher rank to
enter Egypt except by permission, and he had specially reserved the country,
from a fear that any one who held a province containing the key of the
land and of the sea, with ever so small a force against the mightiest army,
might distress Italy by famine. 
[2.60] Germanicus, however, who had
not yet learnt how much he was blamed for his expedition, sailed up the
Nile from the city of Canopus as his starting-point. Spartans founded the
place because Canopus, pilot of one of their ships, had been buried there,
when Menelaus on his return to Greece was driven into a distant sea and
to the shores of Libya. Thence he went to the river's nearest mouth, dedicated
to a Hercules who, the natives say, was born in the country and was the
original hero, others, who afterwards showed like valour, having received
his name. Next he visited the vast ruins of ancient Thebes. There yet remained
on the towering piles Egyptian inscriptions, with a complete account of
the city's past grandeur. One of the aged priests, who was desired to interpret
the language of his country, related how once there had dwelt in Thebes
seven hundred thousand men of military age, and how with such an army king
Rhamses conquered Libya, Ethiopia, Media, Persia, Bactria, and Scythia,
and held under his sway the countries inhabited by the Syrians, Armenians,
and their neighbours, the Cappadocians, from the Bithynian to the Lycian
sea. There was also to be read what tributes were imposed on these nations,
the weight of silver and gold, the tale of arms and horses, the gifts of
ivory and of perfumes to the temples, with the amount of grain and supplies
furnished by each people, a revenue as magnificent as is now exacted by
the might of Parthia or the power of Rome. 
[2.61] But Germanicus also bestowed
attention on other wonders. Chief of these were the stone image of Memnon,
which, when struck by the sun's rays, gives out the sound of a human voice;
the pyramids, rising up like mountains amid almost impassable wastes of
shifting sand, raised by the emulation and vast wealth of kings; the lake
hollowed out of the earth to be a receptacle for the Nile's overflow; and
elsewhere the river's narrow channel and profound depth which no line of
the explorer can penetrate. He then came to Elephantine and Syene, formerly
the limits of the Roman empire, which now extends to the Red Sea. 
[2.62] While Germanicus was spending
the summer in visits to several provinces, Drusus gained no little glory
by sowing discord among the Germans and urging them to complete the destruction
of the now broken power of Maroboduus. Among the Gotones was a youth of
noble birth, Catualda by name, who had formerly been driven into exile
by the might of Maroboduus, and who now, when the king's fortunes were
declining, ventured on revenge. He entered the territory of the Marcomanni
with a strong force, and, having corruptly won over the nobles to join
him, burst into the palace and into an adjacent fortress. There he found
the long-accumulated plunder of the Suevi and camp followers and traders
from our provinces who had been attracted to an enemy's land, each from
their various homes, first by the freedom of commerce, next by the desire
of amassing wealth, finally by forgetfulness of their fatherland. 
[2.63] Maroboduus, now utterly deserted,
had no resource but in the mercy of Caesar. Having crossed the Danube where
it flows by the province of Noricum, he wrote to Tiberius, not like a fugitive
or a suppliant, but as one who remembered his past greatness. When as a
most famous king in former days he received invitations from many nations,
he had still, he said, preferred the friendship of Rome. Caesar replied
that he should have a safe and honourable home in Italy, if he would remain
there, or, if his interests required something different, he might leave
it under the same protection under which he had come. But in the Senate
he maintained that Philip had not been so formidable to the Athenians,
or Pyrrhus or Antiochus to the Roman people, as was Maroboduus. The speech
is extant, and in it he magnifies the man's power, the ferocity of the
tribes under his sway, his proximity to Italy as a foe, finally his own
measures for his overthrow. The result was that Maroboduus was kept at
Ravenna, where his possible return was a menace to the Suevi, should they
ever disdain obedience. But he never left Italy for eighteen years, living
to old age and losing much of his renown through an excessive clinging
to life. Catualda had a like downfall and no better refuge. Driven out
soon afterwards by the overwhelming strength of the Hermundusi led by Vibilius,
he was received and sent to Forum Julii, a colony of Narbonensian Gaul.
The barbarians who followed the two kings, lest they might disturb the
peace of the provinces by mingling with the population, were settled beyond
the Danube between the rivers Marus and Cusus, under a king, Vannius, of
the nation of the Quadi. 
[2.64] Tidings having also arrived
of Artaxias being made king of Armenia by Germanicus, the Senate decreed
that both he and Drusus should enter the city with an ovation. Arches too
were raised round the sides of the temple of Mars the Avenger, with statues
of the two Caesars. Tiberius was the more delighted at having established
peace by wise policy than if he had finished a war by battle. And so next
he planned a crafty scheme against Rhescuporis, king of Thrace. That entire
country had been in the possession of Rhoemetalces, after whose death Augustus
assigned half to the king's brother Rhescuporis, half to his son Cotys.
In this division the cultivated lands, the towns, and what bordered on
Greek territories, fell to Cotys; the wild and barbarous portion, with
enemies on its frontier, to Rhescuporis. The kings too themselves differed,
Cotys having a gentle and kindly temper, the other a fierce and ambitious
spirit, which could not brook a partner. Still at first they lived in a
hollow friendship, but soon Rhescuporis overstepped his bounds and appropriated
to himself what had been given to Cotys, using force when he was resisted,
though somewhat timidly under Augustus, who having created both kingdoms
would, he feared, avenge any contempt of his arrangement. When however
he heard of the change of emperor, he let loose bands of freebooters and
razed the fortresses, as a provocation to war. 
[2.65] Nothing made Tiberius so uneasy
as an apprehension of the disturbance of any settlement. He commissioned
a centurion to tell the kings not to decide their dispute by arms. Cotys
at once dismissed the forces which he had prepared. Rhescuporis, with assumed
modesty, asked for a place of meeting where, he said, they might settle
their differences by an interview. There was little hesitation in fixing
on a time, a place, finally on terms, as every point was mutually conceded
and accepted, by the one out of good nature, by the other with a treacherous
intent. Rhescuporis, to ratify the treaty, as he said, further proposed
a banquet; and when their mirth had been prolonged far into the night,
and Cotys amid the feasting and the wine was unsuspicious of danger, he
loaded him with chains, though he appealed, on perceiving the perfidy,
to the sacred character of a king, to the gods of their common house, and
to the hospitable board. Having possessed himself of all Thrace, he wrote
word to Tiberius that a plot had been formed against him, and that he had
forestalled the plotter. Meanwhile, under pretext of a war against the
Bastarnian and Scythian tribes, he was strengthening himself with fresh
forces of infantry and cavalry. He received a conciliatory answer. If there
was no treachery in his conduct, he could rely on his innocence, but neither
the emperor nor the Senate would decide on the right or wrong of his cause
without hearing it. He was therefore to surrender Cotys, come in person
transfer from himself the odium of the charge. 
[2.66] This letter Latinius Pandus,
propraetor of Moesia, sent to Thrace, with soldiers to whose custody Cotys
was to be delivered. Rhescuporis, hesitating between fear and rage, preferred
to be charged with an accomplished rather than with an attempted crime.
He ordered Cotys to be murdered and falsely represented his death as self-inflicted.
Still the emperor did not change the policy which he had once for all adopted.
On the death of Pandus, whom Rhescuporis accused of being his personal
enemy, he appointed to the government of Moesia Pomponius Flaccus, a veteran
soldier, specially because of his close intimacy with the king and his
consequent ability to entrap him. 
[2.67] Flaccus on arriving in Thrace
induced the king by great promises, though he hesitated and thought of
his guilty deeds, to enter the Roman lines. He then surrounded him with
a strong force under pretence of showing him honour, and the tribunes and
centurions, by counsel, by persuasion, and by a more undisguised captivity
the further he went, brought him, aware at last of his desperate plight,
to Rome. He was accused before the Senate by the wife of Cotys, and was
condemned to be kept a prisoner far away from his kingdom. Thrace was divided
between his son Rhoemetalces, who, it was proved, had opposed his father's
designs, and the sons of Cotys. As these were still minors, Trebellienus
Rufus, an expraetor, was appointed to govern the kingdom in the meanwhile,
after the precedent of our ancestors who sent Marcus Lepidus into Egypt
as guardian to Ptolemy's children. Rhescuporis was removed to Alexandria,
and there attempting or falsely charged with attempting escape, was put
to death. 
[2.68] About the same time, Vonones,
who, as I have related, had been banished to Cilicia, endeavoured by bribing
his guards to escape into Armenia, thence to Albania and Heniochia, and
to his kinsman, the king of Scythia. Quitting the sea-coast on the pretence
of a hunting expedition, he struck into trackless forests, and was soon
borne by his swift steed to the river Pyramus, the bridges over which had
been broken down by the natives as soon as they heard of the king's escape.
Nor was there a ford by which it could be crossed. And so on the river's
bank he was put in chains by Vibius Fronto, an officer of cavalry; and
then Remmius, an enrolled pensioner, who had previously been entrusted
with the king's custody, in pretended rage, pierced him with his sword.
Hence there was more ground for believing that the man, conscious of guilty
complicity and fearing accusation, had slain Vonones. 
[2.69] Germanicus meanwhile, as he
was returning from Egypt, found that all his directions to the legions
and to the various cities had been repealed or reversed. This led to grievous
insults on Piso, while he as savagely assailed the prince. Piso then resolved
to quit Syria. Soon he was detained there by the failing health of Germanicus,
but when he heard of his recovery, while people were paying the vows they
had offered for his safety, he went attended by his lictors, drove away
the victims placed by the altars with all the preparations for sacrifice,
and the festal gathering of the populace of Antioch. Then he left for Seleucia
and awaited the result of the illness which had again attacked Germanicus.
The terrible intensity of the malady was increased by the belief that he
had been poisoned by Piso. And certainly there were found hidden in the
floor and in the walls disinterred remains of human bodies, incantations
and spells, and the name of Germanicus inscribed on leaden tablets, half-burnt
cinders smeared with blood, and other horrors by which in popular belief
souls are devoted so the infernal deities. Piso too was accused of sending
emissaries to note curiously every unfavourable symptom of the illness.

[2.70] Germanicus heard of all this
with anger, no less than with fear. "If my doors," he said, "are
to be besieged, if I must gasp out my last breath under my enemies' eyes,
what will then be the lot of my most unhappy wife, of my infant children?
Poisoning seems tedious; he is in eager haste to have the sole control
of the province and the legions. But Germanicus is not yet fallen so low,
nor will the murderer long retain the reward of the fatal deed." He
then addressed a letter to Piso, renouncing his friendship, and, as many
also state, ordered him to quit the province. Piso without further delay
weighed anchor, slackening his course that he might not have a long way
to return should Germanicus' death leave Syria open to him. 
[2.71] For a brief space the prince's
hopes rose; then his frame became exhausted, and, as his end drew near,
he spoke as follows to the friends by his side: - "Were I succumbing
to nature, I should have just ground of complaint even against the gods
for thus tearing me away in my youth by an untimely death from parents,
children, country. Now, cut off by the wickedness of Piso and Plancina,
I leave to your hearts my last entreaties. Describe to my father and brother,
torn by what persecutions, entangled by what plots, I have ended by the
worst of deaths the most miserable of lives. If any were touched by my
bright prospects, by ties of blood, or even by envy towards me while I
lived, they will weep that the once prosperous survivor of so many wars
has perished by a woman's treachery. You will have the opportunity of complaint
before the Senate, of an appeal to the laws. It is not the chief duty of
friends to follow the dead with unprofitable laments, but to remember his
wishes, to fulfil his commands. Tears for Germanicus even strangers will
shed; vengeance must come from you, if you loved the man more than his
fortune. Show the people of Rome her who is the granddaughter of the Divine
Augustus, as well as my consort; set before them my six children. Sympathy
will be on the side of the accusers, and to those who screen themselves
under infamous orders belief or pardon will be refused." His friends
clasped the dying man's right hand, and swore that they would sooner lose
life than revenge. 
[2.72] He then turned to his wife and
implored her by the memory of her husband and by their common offspring
to lay aside her high spirit, to submit herself to the cruel blows of fortune,
and not, when she returned to Rome, to enrage by political rivalry those
who were stronger than herself. This was said openly; other words were
whispered, pointing, it was supposed, to his fears from Tiberius. Soon
afterwards he expired, to the intense sorrow of the province and of the
neighbouring peoples. Foreign nations and kings grieved over him, so great
was his courtesy to allies, his humanity to enemies. He inspired reverence
alike by look and voice, and while he maintained the greatness and dignity
of the highest rank, he had escaped the hatred that waits on arrogance.

[2.73] His funeral, though it lacked
the family statues and procession, was honoured by panegyrics and a commemoration
of his virtues. Some there were who, as they thought of his beauty, his
age, and the manner of his death, the vicinity too of the country where
he died, likened his end to that of Alexander the Great. Both had a graceful
person and were of noble birth; neither had much exceeded thirty years
of age, and both fell by the treachery of their own people in strange lands.
But Germanicus was gracious to his friends, temperate in his pleasures,
the husband of one wife, with only legitimate children. He was too no less
a warrior, though rashness he had none, and, though after having cowed
Germany by his many victories, he was hindered from crushing it into subjection.
Had he had the sole control of affairs, had he possessed the power and
title of a king, he would have attained military glory as much more easily
as he had excelled Alexander in clemency, in self-restraint, and in all
other virtues. As to the body which, before it was burnt, lay bare in the
forum at Antioch, its destined place of burial, it is doubtful whether
it exhibited the marks of poisoning. For men according as they pitied Germanicus
and were prepossessed with suspicion or were biased by partiality towards
Piso, gave conflicting accounts. 
[2.74] Then followed a deliberation
among the generals and other senators present about the appointment of
a governor to Syria. The contest was slight among all but Vibius Marsus
and Cneius Sentius, between whom there was a long dispute. Finally Marsus
yielded to Sentius as an older and keener competitor. Sentius at once sent
to Rome a woman infamous for poisonings in the province and a special favourite
of Plancina, Martina by name, on the demand of Vitellius and Veranius and
others, who were preparing the charges and the indictment as if a prosecution
had already been commenced. 
[2.75] Agrippina meantime, worn out
though she was with sorrow and bodily weakness, yet still impatient of
everything which might delay her vengeance, embarked with the ashes of
Germanicus and with her children, pitied by all. Here indeed was a woman
of the highest nobility, and but lately because of her splendid union wont
to be seen amid an admiring and sympathizing throng, now bearing in her
bosom the mournful relics of death, with an uncertain hope of revenge,
with apprehensions for herself, repeatedly at fortune's mercy by reason
of the ill-starred fruitfulness of her marriage. Piso was at the island
of Coos when tidings reached him that Germanicus was dead. He received
the news with extravagant joy, slew victims, visited the temples, with
no moderation in his transports; while Plancina's insolence increased,
and she then for the first time exchanged for the gayest attire the mourning
she had worn for her lost sister. 
[2.76] Centurions streamed in, and
hinted to Piso that he had the sympathy of the legions at his command.
"Go back," they said, "to the province which has not been
rightfully taken from you, and is still vacant." While he deliberated
what he was to do, his son, Marcus Piso, advised speedy return to Rome.
"As yet," he said, "you have not contracted any inexpiable
guilt, and you need not dread feeble suspicions or vague rumours. Your
strife with Germanicus deserved hatred perhaps, but not punishment, and
by your having been deprived of the province, your enemies have been fully
satisfied. But if you return, should Sentius resist you, civil war is begun,
and you will not retain on your side the centurions and soldiers, who are
powerfully swayed by the yet recent memory of their general and by a deep-rooted
affection for the Caesars." 
[2.77] Against this view Domitius Celer,
one of Piso's intimate friends, argued that he ought to profit by the opportunity.
"It was Piso, not Sentius, who had been appointed to Syria. It was
to Piso that the symbols of power and a praetor's jurisdiction and the
legions had been given. In case of a hostile menace, who would more rightfully
confront it by arms than the man who had received the authority and special
commission of a governor? And as for rumours, it is best to leave time
in which they may die away. Often the innocent cannot stand against the
first burst of unpopularity. But if Piso possesses himself of the army,
and increases his resources, much which cannot be foreseen will haply turn
out in his favour. Are we hastening to reach Italy along with the ashes
of Germanicus, that, unheard and undefended, you may be hurried to ruin
by the wailings of Agrippina and the first gossip of an ignorant mob? You
have on your side the complicity of Augusta and the emperor's favour, though
in secret, and none mourn more ostentatiously over the death of Germanicus
than those who most rejoice at it." 
[2.78] Without much difficulty Piso,
who was ever ready for violent action, was led into this view. He sent
a letter to Tiberius accusing Germanicus of luxury and arrogance, and asserting
that, having been driven away to make room for revolution, he had resumed
the command of the army in the same loyal spirit in which he had before
held it. At the same time he put Domitius on board a trireme, with an order
to avoid the coast and to push on to Syria through the open sea away from
the islands. He formed into regular companies the deserters who flocked
to him, armed the camp-followers, crossed with his ships to the mainland,
intercepted a detachment of new levies on their way to Syria, and wrote
word to the petty kings of Cilicia that they were to help him with auxiliaries,
the young Piso actively assisting in all the business of war, though he
had advised against undertaking it. 
[2.79] And so they coasted along Lycia
and Pamphylia, and on meeting the fleet which conveyed Agrippina, both
sides in hot anger at first armed for battle, and then in mutual fear confined
themselves to revilings, Marsus Vibius telling Piso that he was to go to
Rome to defend himself. Piso mockingly replied that he would be there as
soon as the praetor who had to try poisoning cases had fixed a day for
the accused and his prosecutors. Meanwhile Domitius having landed at Laodicea,
a city of Syria, as he was on his way to the winter-quarters of the sixth
legion, which was, he believed, particularly open to revolutionary schemes,
was anticipated by its commander Pacuvius. Of this Sentius informed Piso
in a letter, and warned him not to disturb the armies by agents of corruption
or the province by war. He gathered round him all whom he knew to cherish
the memory of Germanicus, and to be opposed to his enemies, dwelling repeatedly
on the greatness of the general, with hints that the State was being threatened
with an armed attack, and he put himself at the head of a strong force,
prepared for battle. 
[2.80] Piso, too, though his first
attempts were unsuccessful, did not omit the safest precautions under present
circumstances, but occupied a very strongly fortified position in Cilicia,
named, Celenderis. He had raised to the strength of a legion the Cilician
auxiliaries which the petty kings had sent, by mixing with them some deserters,
and the lately intercepted recruits with his own and Plancina's slaves.
And he protested that he, though Caesar's legate, was kept out of the province
which Caesar had given him, not by the legions (for he had come at their
invitation) but by Sentius, who was veiling private animosity under lying
charges. "Only," he said, "stand in battle array, and the
soldiers will not fight when they see that Piso whom they themselves once
called 'father,' is the stronger, if right is to decide; if arms, is far
from powerless." He then deployed his companies before the lines of
the fortress on a high and precipitous hill, with the sea surrounding him
on every other side. Against him were the veteran troops drawn up in ranks
and with reserves, a formidable soldiery on one side, a formidable position
on the other. But his men had neither heart nor hope, and only rustic weapons,
extemporised for sudden use. When they came to fighting, the result was
doubtful only while the Roman cohorts were struggling up to level ground;
then, the Cilicians turned their backs and shut themselves up within the
fortress. 
[2.81] Meanwhile Piso vainly attempted
an attack on the fleet which waited at a distance; he then went back, and
as he stood before the walls, now smiting his breast, now calling on individual
soldiers by name, and luring them on by rewards, sought to excite a mutiny.
He had so far roused them that a standard bearer of the sixth legion went
over to him with his standard. Thereupon Sentius ordered the horns and
trumpets to be sounded, the rampart to be assaulted, the scaling ladders
to be raised, all the bravest men to mount on them, while others were to
discharge from the engines spears, stones, and brands. At last Piso's obstinacy
was overcome, and he begged that he might remain in the fortress on surrendering
his arms, while the emperor was being consulted about the appointment of
a governor to Syria. The proposed terms were refused, and all that was
granted him were some ships and a safe return to Rome. 
[2.82] There meantime, when the illness
of Germanicus was universally known, and all news, coming, as it did, from
a distance, exaggerated the danger, there was grief and indignation. There
was too an outburst of complaint. "Of course this was the meaning,"
they said, "of banishing him to the ends of the earth, of giving Piso
the province; this was the drift of Augusta's secret interviews with Plancina.
What elderly men had said of Drusus was perfectly true, that rulers disliked
a citizen-like temper in their sons, and the young princes had been put
out of the way because they had the idea of comprehending in a restored
era of freedom the Roman people under equal laws." This popular talk
was so stimulated by the news of Germanicus's death that even before the
magistrate's proclamation or the Senate's resolution, there was a voluntary
suspension of business, the public courts were deserted, and private houses
closed. Everywhere there was a silence broken only by groans; nothing was
arranged for mere effect. And though they refrained not from the emblems
of the mourner, they sorrowed yet the more deeply in their hearts. It chanced
that some merchants who left Syria while Germanicus was still alive, brought
more cheering tidings about his health. These were instantly believed,
instantly published. Every one passed on to others whom he met the intelligence,
ill-authenticated as it was, and they again to many more, with joyous exaggeration.
They ran to and fro through the city and broke open the doors of the temples.
Night assisted their credulity, and amid the darkness confident assertion
was comparatively easy. Nor did Tiberius check the false reports till by
lapse of time they died away. 
[2.83] And so the people grieved the
more bitterly as though Germanicus was again lost to them. New honours
were devised and decreed, as men were inspired by affection for him or
by genius. His name was to be celebrated in the song of the Salii; chairs
of state with oaken garlands over them were to be set up in the places
assigned to the priesthood of the Augustales; his image in ivory was to
head the procession in the games of the circus; no flamen or augur, except
from the Julian family, was to be chosen in the room of Germanicus. Triumphal
arches were erected at Rome, on the banks of the Rhine, and on mount Amanus
in Syria, with an inscription recording his achievements, and how he had
died in the public service. A cenotaph was raised at Antioch, where the
body was burnt, a lofty mound at Epidaphna, where he had ended his life.
The number of his statues, or of the places in which they were honoured,
could not easily be computed. When a golden shield of remarkable size was
voted him as a leader among orators, Tiberius declared that he would dedicate
to him one of the usual kind, similar to the rest, for in eloquence, he
said, there was no distinction of rank, and it was a sufficient glory for
him to be classed among ancient writers. The knights called the seats in
the theatre known as "the juniors," Germanicus's benches, and
arranged that their squadrons were to ride in procession behind his effigy
on the fifteenth of July. Many of these honours still remain; some were
at once dropped, or became obsolete with time. 
[2.84] While men's sorrow was yet fresh,
Germanicus's sister Livia, who was married to Drusus, gave birth to twin
sons. This, as a rare event, causing joy even in humble homes, so delighted
the emperor that he did not refrain from boasting before the senators that
to no Roman of the same rank had twin offspring ever before been born.
In fact, he would turn to his own glory every incident, however casual.
But at such a time, even this brought grief to the people, who thought
that the increase of Drusus's family still further depressed the house
of Germanicus. 
[2.85] That same year the profligacy
of women was checked by stringent enactments, and it was provided that
no woman whose grandfather, father, or husband had been a Roman knight
should get money by prostitution. Vistilia, born of a praetorian family,
had actually published her name with this object on the aedile's list,
according to a recognised custom of our ancestors, who considered it a
sufficient punishment on unchaste women to have to profess their shame.
Titidius Labeo, Vistilia's husband, was judicially called on to say why
with a wife whose guilt was manifest he had neglected to inflict the legal
penalty. When he pleaded that the sixty days given for deliberation had
not yet expired, it was thought sufficient to decide Vistilia's case, and
she was banished out of sight to the island of Seriphos. There was a debate
too about expelling the Egyptian and Jewish worship, and a resolution of
the Senate was passed that four thousand of the freedmen class who were
infected with those superstitions and were of military age should be transported
to the island of Sardinia, to quell the brigandage of the place, a cheap
sacrifice should they die from the pestilential climate. The rest were
to quit Italy, unless before a certain day they repudiated their impious
rites. 
[2.86] Next the emperor brought forward
a motion for the election of a Vestal virgin in the room of Occia, who
for fifty-seven years had presided with the most immaculate virtue over
the Vestal worship. He formally thanked Fonteius Agrippa and Domitius Pollio
for offering their daughters and so vying with one another in zeal for
the commonwealth. Pollio's daughter was preferred, only because her mother
had lived with one and the same husband, while Agrippa had impaired the
honour of his house by a divorce. The emperor consoled his daughter, passed
over though she was, with a dowry of a million sesterces. 
[2.87] As the city populace complained
of the cruel dearness of corn, he fixed a price for grain to be paid by
the purchaser, promising himself to add two sesterces on every peck for
the traders. But he would not therefore accept the title of "father
of the country" which once before too had been offered him, and he
sharply rebuked those who called his work "divine" and himself
"lord." Consequently, speech was restricted and perilous under
an emperor who feared freedom while he hated sycophancy. 
[2.88] I find it stated by some writers
and senators of the period that a letter from Adgandestrius, chief of the
Chatti, was read in the Senate, promising the death of Arminius, if poison
were sent for the perpetration of the murder, and that the reply was that
it was not by secret treachery but openly and by arms that the people of
Rome avenged themselves on their enemies. A noble answer, by which Tiberius
sought to liken himself to those generals of old who had forbidden and
even denounced the poisoning of king Pyrrhus. Arminius, meanwhile, when
the Romans retired and Maroboduus was expelled, found himself opposed in
aiming at the throne by his countrymen's independent spirit. He was assailed
by armed force, and while fighting with various success, fell by the treachery
of his kinsmen. Assuredly he was the deliverer of Germany, one too who
had defied Rome, not in her early rise, as other kings and generals, but
in the height of her empire's glory, had fought, indeed, indecisive battles,
yet in war remained unconquered. He completed thirty-seven years of life,
twelve years of power, and he is still a theme of song among barbarous
nations, though to Greek historians, who admire only their own achievements,
he is unknown, and to Romans not as famous as he should be, while we extol
the past and are indifferent to our own times. 
Book 3 - (A.D. 20-22)
[3.1] WITHOUT pausing in her winter
voyage Agrippina arrived at the island of Corcyra, facing the shores of
Calabria. There she spent a few days to compose her mind, for she was wild
with grief and knew not how to endure. Meanwhile on hearing of her arrival,
all her intimate friends and several officers, every one indeed who had
served under Germanicus, many strangers too from the neighbouring towns,
some thinking it respectful to the emperor, and still more following their
example, thronged eagerly to Brundisium, the nearest and safest landing
place for a voyager. As soon as the fleet was seen on the horizon, not
only the harbour and the adjacent shores, but the city walls too and the
roofs and every place which commanded the most distant prospect were filled
with crowds of mourners, who incessantly asked one another, whether, when
she landed, they were to receive her in silence or with some utterance
of emotion. They were not agreed on what befitted the occasion when the
fleet slowly approached, its crew, not joyous as is usual, but wearing
all a studied expression of grief. When Agrippina descended from the vessel
with her two children, clasping the funeral urn, with eyes riveted to the
earth, there was one universal groan. You could not distinguish kinsfolk
from strangers, or the laments of men from those of women; only the attendants
of Agrippina, worn out as they were by long sorrow, were surpassed by the
mourners who now met them, fresh in their grief. 
[3.2] The emperor had despatched two
praetorian cohorts with instructions that the magistrates of Calabria,
Apulia, and Campania were to pay the last honours to his son's memory.
Accordingly tribunes and centurions bore Germanicus's ashes on their shoulders.
They were preceded by the standards unadorned and the faces reversed. As
they passed colony after colony, the populace in black, the knights in
their state robes, burnt vestments and perfumes with other usual funeral
adjuncts, in proportion to the wealth of the place. Even those whose towns
were out of the route, met the mourners, offered victims and built altars
to the dead, testifying their grief by tears and wailings. Drusus went
as far as Tarracina with Claudius, brother of Germanicus, and had been
at Rome. Marcus Valerius and Caius Aurelius, the consuls, who had already
entered on office, and a great number of the people thronged the road in
scattered groups, every one weeping as he felt inclined. Flattery there
was none, for all knew that Tiberius could scarcely dissemble his joy at
the death of Germanicus. 
[3.3] Tiberius Augusta refrained from
showing themselves, thinking it below their dignity to shed tears in public,
or else fearing that, if all eyes scrutinised their faces, their hypocrisy
would be revealed. I do not find in any historian or in the daily register
that Antonia, Germanicus's mother, rendered any conspicuous honour to the
deceased, though besides Agrippina, Drusus, and Claudius, all his other
kinsfolk are mentioned by name. She may either have been hindered by illness,
or with a spirit overpowered by grief she may not have had the heart to
endure the sight of so great an affliction. But I can more easily believe
that Tiberius and Augusta, who did not leave the palace, kept her within,
that their sorrow might seem equal to hers, and that the grandmother and
uncle might be thought to follow the mother's example in staying at home.

[3.4] The day on which the remains
were consigned to the tomb of Augustus, was now desolate in its silence,
now distracted by lamentations. The streets of the city were crowded; torches
were blazing throughout the Campus Martius. There the soldiers under arms,
the magistrates without their symbols of office, the people in the tribes,
were all incessantly exclaiming that the commonwealth was ruined, that
not a hope remained, too boldly and openly to let one think that they remembered
their rulers. But nothing impressed Tiberius more deeply than the enthusiasm
kindled in favor of Agrippina, whom men spoke of as the glory of the country,
the sole surviving off spring of Augustus, the solitary example of the
old times, while looking up to heaven and the gods they prayed for the
safety of her children and that they might outlive their oppressors. 
[3.5] Some there were who missed the
grandeur of a state-funeral, and contrasted the splendid honours conferred
by Augustus on Drusus, the father of Germanicus. "Then the emperor
himself," they said, "went in the extreme rigour of winter as
far as Ticinum, and never leaving the corpse entered Rome with it. Round
the funeral bier were ranged the images of the Claudii and the Julii; there
was weeping in the forum, and a panegyric before the rostra; every honour
devised by our ancestors or invented by their descendants was heaped on
him. But as for Germanicus, even the customary distinctions due to any
noble had not fallen to his lot. Granting that his body, because of the
distance of tie journey, was burnt in any fashion in foreign lands, still
all the more honours ought to have been afterwards paid him, because at
first chance had denied them. His brother had gone but one day's journey
to meet him; his uncle, not even to the city gates. Where were all those
usages of the past, the image at the head of the bier, the lays composed
in commemoration of worth, the eulogies and laments, or at least the semblance
of grief?" 
[3.6] All this was known to Tiberius,
and, to silence popular talk, he reminded the people in a proclamation
that many eminent Romans had died for their country and that none had been
honoured with such passionate regret. This regret was a glory both to himself
and to all, provided only a due mean were observed; for what was becoming
in humble homes and communities, did not befit princely personages and
an imperial people. Tears and the solace found in mourning were suitable
enough for the first burst of grief; but now they must brace their hearts
to endurance, as in former days the Divine Julius after the loss of his
only daughter, and the Divine Augustus when he was bereft of his grandchildren,
had thrust away their sorrow. There was no need of examples from the past,
showing how often the Roman people had patiently endured the defeats of
armies, the destruction of generals, the total extinction of noble families.
Princes were mortal; the State was everlasting. Let them then return to
their usual pursuits, and, as the shows of the festival of the Great Goddess
were at hand, even resume their amusements. 
[3.7] The suspension of business then
ceased, and men went back to their occupations. Drusus was sent to the
armies of Illyricum, amidst an universal eagerness to exact vengeance on
Piso, and ceaseless complaints that he was meantime roaming through the
delightful regions of Asia and Achaia, and was weakening the proofs of
his guilt by an insolent and artful procrastination. It was indeed widely
rumoured that the notorius poisoner Martina, who, as I have related, had
been despatched to Rome by Cneius Sentius, had died suddenly at Brundisium;
that poison was concealed in a knot of her hair, and that no symptoms of
suicide were discovered on her person. 
[3.8] Piso meanwhile sent his son on
to Rome with a message intended to pacify the emporer, and then made his
way to Drusus, who would, he hoped, be not so much infuriated at his brother's
death as kindly disposed towards himself in consequence of a rival's removal.
Tiberius, to show his impartiality, received the youth courteously, and
enriched him with the liberality he usually bestowed on the sons of noble
families. Drusus replied to Piso that if certain insinuations were true,
he must be foremost in his resentment, but he preferred to believe that
they were false and groundless, and that Germanicus's death need be the
ruin of no one. This he said openly, avoiding anything like secrecy. Men
did not doubt that his answer prescribed him by Tiberius, inasmuch as one
who had generally all the simplicity and candour of youth, now had recourse
to the artifices of old age. 
[3.9] Piso, after crossing the Dalmatian
sea and leaving his ships at Ancona, went through Picenum and along the
Flaminian road, where he overtook a legion which was marching from Pannonia
to Rome and was then to garrison Africa. It was a matter of common talk
how he had repeatedly displayed himself to the soldiers on the road during
the march. From Narnia, to avoid suspicion or because the plans of fear
are uncertain, he sailed down the Nar, then down the Tiber, and increased
the fury of the populace by bringing his vessel to shore at the tomb of
the Caesars. In broad daylight, when the river-bank was thronged, he himself
with a numerous following of dependents, and Plancina with a retinue of
women, moved onward with joy in their countenances. Among other things
which provoked men's anger was his house towering above the forum, gay
with festal decorations, his banquets and his feasts, about which there
was no secrecy, because the place was so public. 
[3.10] Next day, Fulcinius Trio asked
the consul's leave to prosecute Piso. It was contended against him by Vitellius
and Veranius and the others who had been the companions of Germanicus,
that this was not Trio's proper part, and that they themselves meant to
report their instructions from Germanicus, not as accusers, but as deponents
and witnesses to facts. Trio, abandoning the prosecution on this count,
obtained leave to accuse Piso's previous career, and the emperor was requested
to undertake the inquiry. This even the accused did not refuse, fearing,
as he did, the bias of the people and of the Senate; while Tiberius, he
knew, was resolute enough to despise report, and was also entangled in
his mother's complicity. Truth too would be more easily distinguished from
perverse misrepresentation by a single judge, where a number would be swayed
by hatred and ill-will. Tiberius was not unaware of the formidable difficulty
of the inquiry and of the rumours by which he was himself assailed. Having
therefore summoned a few intimate friends, he listened to the threatening
speeches of the prosecutors and to the pleadings of the accused, and finally
referred the whole case to the Senate. 
[3.11] Drusus meanwhile, on his return
from Illyricum, though the Senate had voted him an ovation for the submission
of Maroboduus and the successes of the previous summer, postponed the honour
and entered Rome. Then the defendant sought the advocacy of Lucius Arruntius,
Marcus Vinicius, Asinius Gallus, Aeserninus Marcellus and Sextus Pompeius,
and on their declining for different reasons, Marcus Lepidus, Lucius Piso,
and Livineius Regulus became his counsel, amid the excitement of the whole
country, which wondered how much fidelity would be shown by the friends
of Germanicus, on what the accused rested his hopes, and how far Tiberius
would repress and hide his feelings. Never were the people more keenly
interested; never did they indulge themselves more freely in secret whispers
against the emperor or in the silence of suspicion. 
[3.12] On the day the Senate met,
Tiberius delivered a speech of studied moderation. "Piso," he
said, "was my father's representative and friend, and was appointed
by myself, on the advice of the Senate, to assist Germanicus in the administration
of the East. Whether he there had provoked the young prince by wilful opposition
and rivalry, and had rejoiced at his death or wickedly destroyed him, is
for you to determine with minds unbiassed. Certainly if a subordinate oversteps
the bounds of duty and of obedience to his commander, and has exulted in
his death and in my affliction, I shall hate him and exclude him from my
house, and I shall avenge a personal quarrel without resorting to my power
as emperor. If however a crime is discovered which ought to be punished,
whoever the murdered man may be, it is for you to give just reparation
both to the children of Germanicus and to us, his parents. "Consider
this too, whether Piso dealt with the armies in a revolutionary and seditious
spirit; whether he sought by intrigue popularity with the soldiers; whether
he attempted to repossess himself of the province by arms, or whether these
are falsehoods which his accusers have published with exaggeration. As
for them, I am justly angry with their intemperate zeal. For to what purpose
did they strip the corpse and expose it to the pollution of the vulgar
gaze, and circulate a story among foreigners that he was destroyed by poison,
if all this is still doubtful and requires investigation? For my part,
I sorrow for my son and shall always sorrow for him; still I would not
hinder the accused from producing all the evidence which can relieve his
innocence or convict Germanicus of any unfairness, if such there was. And
I implore you not to take as proven charges alleged, merely because the
case is intimately bound up with my affliction. Do you, whom ties of blood
or your own true-heartedness have made his advocates, help him in his peril,
every one of you, as far as each man's eloquence and diligence can do so.
To like exertions and like persistency I would urge the prosecutors. In
this, and in this only, will we place Germanicus above the laws, by conducting
the inquiry into his death in this house instead of in the forum, and before
the Senate instead of before a bench of judges. In all else let the case
be tried as simply as others. Let no one heed the tears of Drusus or my
own sorrow, or any stories invented to our discredit." 
[3.13] Two days were then assigned
for the bringing forward of the charges, and after six days' interval,
the prisoner's defence was to occupy three days. Thereupon Fulcinius Trio
began with some old and irrelevant accusations about intrigues and extortion
during Piso's government of Spain. This, if proved, would not have been
fatal to the defendant, if he cleared himself as to his late conduct, and,
if refuted, would not have secured his acquittal, if he were convicted
of the greater crimes. Next, Servaeus, Veranius, and Vitellius, all with
equal earnestness, Vitellius with striking eloquence, alleged against Piso
that out of hatred of Germanicus and a desire of revolution he had so corrupted
the common soldiers by licence and oppression of the allies that he was
called by the vilest of them "father of the legions" while on
the other hand to all the best men, especially to the companions and friends
of Germanicus, he had been savagely cruel. Lastly, he had, they said, destroyed
Germanicus himself by sorceries and poison, and hence came those ceremonies
and horrible sacrifices made by himself and Plancina; then he had threatened
the State with war, and had been defeated in battle, before he could be
tried as a prisoner. 
[3.14] On all points but one the defence
broke down. That he had tampered with the soldiers, that his province had
been at the mercy of the vilest of them, that he had even insulted his
chief, he could not deny. It was only the charge of poisoning from which
he seemed to have cleared himself. This indeed the prosecutors did not
adequately sustain by merely alleging that at a banquet given by Germanicus,
his food had been tainted with poison by the hands of Piso who sat next
above him. It seemed absurd to suppose that he would have dared such an
attempt among strange servants, in the sight of so many bystanders, and
under Germanicus's own eyes. And, besides, the defendant offered his slaves
to the torture, and insisted on its application to the attendants on that
occasion. But the judges for different reasons were merciless, the emperor,
because war had been made on a province, the Senate because they could
not be sufficiently convinced that there had been no treachery about the
death of Germanicus. At the same time shouts were heard from the people
in front of the Senate House, threatening violence if he escaped the verdict
of the Senators. They had actually dragged Piso's statues to the Gemonian
stairs, and were breaking them in pieces, when by the emperor's order they
were rescued and replaced. Piso was then put in a litter and attended by
a tribune of one of the Praetorian cohorts, who followed him, so it was
variously rumoured, to guard his person or to be his executioner. 
[3.15] Plancina was equally detested,
but had stronger interest. Consequently it was considered a question how
far the emperor would be allowed to go against her. While Piso's hopes
were in suspense, she offered to share his lot, whatever it might be, and
in the worst event, to be his companion in death. But as soon as she had
secured her pardon through the secret intercessions of Augusta, she gradually
withdrew from her husband and separated her defence from his. When the
prisoner saw that this was fatal to him, he hesitated whether he should
still persist, but at the urgent request of his sons braced his courage
and once more entered the Senate. There he bore patiently the renewal of
the accusation, the furious voices of the Senators, savage opposition indeed
from every quarter, but nothing daunted him so much as to see Tiberius,
without pity and without anger, resolutely closing himself against any
inroad of emotion. He was conveyed back to his house, where, seemingly
by way of preparing his defence for the next day, he wrote a few words,
sealed the paper and handed it to a freedman. Then he bestowed the usual
attention on his person; after a while, late at night, his wife having
left his chamber, he ordered the doors to be closed, and at daybreak was
found with his throat cut and a sword lying on the ground. 
[3.16] I remember to have heard old
men say that a document was often seen in Piso's hands, the substance of
which he never himself divulged, but which his friends repeatedly declared
contained a letter from Tiberius with instructions referring to Germanicus,
and that it was his intention to produce it before the Senate and upbraid
the emperor, had he not been deluded by vain promises from Sejanus. Nor
did he perish, they said, by his own hand, but by that of one sent to be
his executioner. Neither of these statements would I positively affirm;
still it would not have been right for me to conceal what was related by
those who lived up to the time of my youth. The emperor, assuming an air
of sadness, complained in the Senate that the purpose of such a death was
to bring odium on himself, and he asked with repeated questionings how
Piso had spent his last day and night. Receiving answers which were mostly
judicious, though in part somewhat incautious, he read out a note written
by Piso, nearly to the following effect:- "Crushed by a conspiracy
of my foes and the odium excited by a lying charge, since my truth and
innocence find no place here, I call the immortal gods to witness that
towards you Caesar, I have lived loyally, and with like dutiful respect
towards your mother. And I implore you to think of my children, one of
whom, Cneius is in way implicated in my career, whatever it may have been,
seeing that all this time he has been at Rome, while the other, Marcus
Piso, dissuaded me from returning to Syria. Would that I had yielded to
my young son rather than he to his aged father! And therefore I pray the
more earnestly that the innocent may not pay the penalty of my wickedness.
By forty-five years of obedience, by my association with you in the consulate,
as one who formerly won the esteem of the Divine Augustus, your father,
as one who is your friend and will never hereafter ask a favour, I implore
you to save my unhappy son." About Plancina he added not a word. 
[3.17] Tiberius after this acquitted
the young Piso of the charge of civil war on the ground that a son could
not have refused a father's orders, compassionating at the same time the
high rank of the family and the terrible downfall even of Piso himself,
however he might have deserved it. For Plancina he spoke with shame and
conscious disgrace, alleging in excuse the intercession of his mother,
secret complaints against whom from all good men were growing more and
more vehement. "So it was the duty of a grandmother," people
said, "to look a grandson's murderess in the face, to converse with
her and rescue her from the Senate. What the laws secure on behalf of every
citizen, had to Germanicus alone been denied. The voices of a Vitellius
and Veranius had bewailed a Caesar, while the emperor and Augusta had defended
Plancina. She might as well now turn her poisonings, and her devices which
had proved so successful, against Agrippina and her children, and thus
sate this exemplary grandmother and uncle with the blood of a most unhappy
house." Two days were frittered away over this mockery of a trial,
Tiberius urging Piso's children to defend their mother. While the accusers
and their witnesses pressed the prosecution with rival zeal, and there
was no reply, pity rather than anger was on the increase. Aurelius Cotta,
the consul, who was first called on for his vote (for when the emperor
put the question, even those in office went through the duty of voting),
held that Piso's name ought to be erased from the public register, half
of his property confiscated, half given up to his son, Cneius Piso, who
was to change his first name; that Marcus Piso, stript of his rank, with
an allowance of five million sesterces, should be banished for ten years,
Plancina's life being spared in consideration of Augusta's intercession.

[3.18] Much of the sentence was mitigated
by the emperor. The name of Piso was not to be struck out of the public
register, since that of Marcus Antonius who had made war on his country,
and that of Julius Antonius who had dishonoured the house of Augustus,
still remained. Marcus Piso too he saved from degradation, and gave him
his father's property, for he was firm enough, as I have often related,
against the temptation of money, and now for very shame at Plancina's acquittal,
he was more than usually merciful. Again, when Valerius Messalinus and
Caecina Severus proposed respectively the erection of a golden statue in
the temple of Mars the Avenger and of an altar to Vengeance, he interposed,
protesting that victories over the foreigner were commemorated with such
monuments, but that domestic woes ought to be shrouded in silent grief.
There was a further proposal of Messalinus, that Tiberius, Augusta, Antonia,
Agrippina and Drusus ought to be publicly thanked for having avenged Germanicus.
He omitted all mention of Claudius. Thereupon he was pointedly asked by
Lucius Asprenas before the Senate, whether the omission had been intentional,
and it was only then that the name of Claudius was added. For my part,
the wider the scope of my reflection on the present and the past, the more
am I impressed by their mockery of human plans in every transaction. Clearly,
the very last man marked out for empire by public opinion, expectation
and general respect was he whom fortune was holding in reserve as the emperor
of the future. 
[3.19] A few days afterwards the emperor
proposed to the Senate to confer the priesthood on Vitellius, Veranius
and Servaeus. To Fulcinius he promised his support in seeking promotion,
but warned him not to ruin his eloquence by rancour. This was the end of
avenging the death of Germanicus, a subject of conflicting rumours not
only among the people then living but also in after times. So obscure are
the greatest events, as some take for granted any hearsay, whatever its
source, others turn truth into falsehood, and both errors find encouragement
with posterity. Drusus meanwhile quitted Rome to resume his command and
soon afterwards re-entered the city with an ovation. In the course of a
few days his mother Vipsania died, the only one of all Agrippa's children
whose death was without violence. As for the rest, they perished, some
it is certain by the sword, others it was believed by poison or starvation.

[3.20] That same year Tacfarinas who
had been defeated, as I have related, by Camillus in the previous summer,
renewed hostilities in Africa, first by mere desultory raids, so swift
as to be unpunished; next, by destroying villages and carrying off plunder
wholesale. Finally, he hemmed in a Roman cohort near the river Pagyda.
The position was commanded by Decrius, a soldier energetic in action and
experienced in war, who regarded the siege as a disgrace. Cheering on his
men to offer battle in the open plain, he drew up his line in front of
his intrenchments. At the first shock, the cohort was driven back, upon
which he threw himself fearlessly amid the missiles in the path of the
fugitives and cried shame on the standard-bearers for letting Roman soldiers
show their backs to a rabble of deserters. At the same moment he was covered
with wounds, and though pierced through the eye, he resolutely faced the
enemy and ceased not to fight till he fell deserted by his men. 
[3.21] On receiving this information,
Lucius Apronius, successor to Camillus, alarmed more by the dishonour of
his own men than by the glory of the enemy, ventured on a deed quite exceptional
at that time and derived from old tradition. He flogged to death every
tenth man drawn by lot from the disgraced cohort. So beneficial was this
rigour that a detachment of veterans, numbering not more than five hundred,
routed those same troops of Tacfarinas on their attacking a fortress named
Thala. In this engagement Rufus Helvius, a common soldier, won the honour
of saving a citizen's life, and was rewarded by Apronius with a neck-chain
and a spear. To these the emperor added the civic crown, complaining, but
without anger, that Apronius had not used his right as proconsul to bestow
this further distinction. Tacfarinas, however, finding that the Numidians
were cowed and had a horror of siege-operations, pursued a desultory warfare,
retreating when he was pressed, and then again hanging on his enemy's rear.
While the barbarian continued these tactics, he could safely insult the
baffled and exhausted Romans. But when he marched away towards the coast
and, hampered with booty, fixed himself in a regular camp, Caesianus was
despatched by his father Apronius with some cavalry and auxiliary infantry,
reinforced by the most active of the legionaries, and, after a successful
battle with the Numidians, drove them into the desert. 
[3.22] At Rome meanwhile Lepida, who
beside the glory of being one of the Aemilii was the great-granddaughter
of Lucius Sulla and Cneius Pompeius, was accused of pretending to be a
mother by Publius Quirinus, a rich and childless man. Then, too, there
were charges of adulteries, of poisonings, and of inquiries made through
astrologers concerning the imperial house. The accused was defended by
her brother Manius Lepidus. Quirinus by his relentless enmity even after
his divorce, had procured for her some sympathy, infamous and guilty as
she was. One could not easily perceive the emperor's feelings at her trial;
so effectually did he interchange and blend the outward signs of resentment
and compassion. He first begged the Senate not to deal with the charges
of treason, and subsequently induced Marcus Servilius, an ex-consul, to
divulge what he had seemingly wished to suppress. He also handed over to
the consuls Lepida's slaves, who were in military custody, but would not
allow them to be examined by torture on matters referring to his own family.
Drusus too, the consul-elect, he released from the necessity of having
to speak first to the question. Some thought this a gracious act, done
to save the rest of the Senators from a compulsory assent, while others
ascribed it to malignity, on the ground that he would have yielded only
where there was a necessity of condemning. 
[3.23] On the days of the games which
interrupted the trial, Lepida went into the theatre with some ladies of
rank, and as she appealed with piteous wailings to her ancestors and to
that very Pompey, the public buildings and statues of whom stood there
before their eyes, she roused such sympathy that people burst into tears
and shouted, without ceasing, savage curses on Quirinus, "to whose
childless old-age and miserably obscure family, one once destined to be
the wife of Lucius Caesar and the daughter-in-law of the Divine Augustus
was being sacrificed." Then, by the torture of the slaves, her infamies
were brought to light, and a motion of Rubellius Blandus was carried which
outlawed her. Drusus supported him, though others had proposed a milder
sentence. Subsequently, Scaurus, who had had daughter by her, obtained
as a concession that her property should not be confiscated. Then at last
Tiberius declared that he had himself too ascertained from the slaves of
Publius Quirinus that Lepida had attempted their master's life by poison.

[3.24] It was some compensation for
the misfortunes of great houses (for within a short interval the Calpurnii
had lost Piso and the Aemilii Lepida) that Decimus Silanus was now restored
to the Junian family. I will briefly relate his downfall. Though the Divine
Augustus in his public life enjoyed unshaken prosperity, he was unfortunate
at home from the profligacy of his daughter and granddaughter, both of
whom he banished from Rome, and punished their paramours with death or
exile. Calling, as he did, a vice so habitual among men and women by the
awful name of sacrilege and treason, he went far beyond the indulgent spirit
of our ancestors, beyond indeed his own legislation. But I will relate
the deaths of others with the remaining events of that time, if after finishing
the work I have now proposed to myself, I prolong my life for further labours.
Decimus Silanus, the paramour of the granddaughter of Augustus, though
the only severity he experienced was exclusion from the emperor's friendship,
saw clearly that it meant exile; and it was not till Tiberius's reign that
he ventured to appeal to the Senate and to the prince, in reliance on the
influence of his brother Marcus Silanus, who was conspicuous both for his
distinguished rank and eloquence. But Tiberius, when Silanus thanked him,
replied in the Senate's presence, "that he too rejoiced at the brother's
return from his long foreign tour, and that this was justly allowable,
inasmuch as he had been banished not by a decree of the Senate or under
any law. Still, personally," he said, "he felt towards him his
father's resentment in all its force, and the return of Silanus had not
cancelled the intentions of Augustus." Silanus after this lived at
Rome without attaining office. 
[3.25] It was next proposed to relax
the Papia Poppaea law, which Augustus in his old age had passed subsequently
to the Julian statutes, for yet further enforcing the penalties on celibacy
and for enriching the exchequer. And yet, marriages and the rearing of
children did not become more frequent, so powerful were the attractions
of a childless state. Meanwhile there was an increase in the number of
persons imperilled, for every household was undermined by the insinuations
of informers; and now the country suffered from its laws, as it had hitherto
suffered from its vices. This suggests to me a fuller discussion of the
origin of law and of the methods by which we have arrived at the present
endless multiplicity and variety of our statutes. 
[3.26] Mankind in the earliest age
lived for a time without a single vicious impulse, without shame or guilt,
and, consequently, without punishment and restraints. Rewards were not
needed when everything right was pursued on its own merits; and as men
desired nothing against morality, they were debarred from nothing by fear.
When however they began to throw off equality, and ambition and violence
usurped the place of self-control and modesty, despotisms grew up and became
perpetual among many nations. Some from the beginning, or when tired of
kings, preferred codes of laws. These were at first simple, while men's
minds were unsophisticated. The most famous of them were those of the Cretans,
framed by Minos; those of the Spartans, by Lycurgus, and, subsequently,
those which Solan drew up for the Athenians on a more elaborate and extensive
scale. Romulus governed us as he pleased; then Numa united our people by
religious ties and a constitution of divine origin, to which some additions
were made by Tullus and Ancus. But Servius Tullius was our chief legislator,
to whose laws even kings were to be subject. 
[3.27] After Tarquin's expulsion,
the people, to check cabals among the Senators, devised many safeguards
for freedom and for the establishment of unity. Decemvirs were appointed;
everything specially admirable elsewhere was adopted, and the Twelve Tables
drawn up, the last specimen of equitable legislation. For subsequent enactments,
though occasionally directed against evildoers for some crime, were oftener
carried by violence amid class dissensions, with a view to obtain honours
not as yet conceded, or to banish distinguished citizens, or for other
base ends. Hence the Gracchi and Saturnini, those popular agitators, and
Drusus too, as flagrant a corrupter in the Senate's name; hence, the bribing
of our allies by alluring promises and the cheating them by tribunes vetoes.
Even the Italian and then the Civil war did not pass without the enactment
of many conflicting laws, till Lucius Sulla, the Dictator, by the repeal
or alteration of past legislation and by many additions, gave us a brief
lull in this process, to be instantly followed by the seditious proposals
of Lepidus, and soon afterwards by the tribunes recovering their license
to excite the people just as they chose. And now bills were passed, not
only for national objects but for individual cases, and laws were most
numerous when the commonwealth was most corrupt. 
[3.28] Cneius Pompeius was then for
the third time elected consul to reform public morals, but in applying
remedies more terrible than the evils and repealing the legislation of
which he had himself been the author, he lost by arms what by arms he had
been maintaining. Then followed twenty years of continuous strife; custom
or law there was none; the vilest deeds went unpunished, while many noble
acts brought ruin. At last, in his sixth consulship, Caesar Augustus, feeling
his power secure, annulled the decrees of his triumvirate, and gave us
a constitution which might serve us in peace under a monarchy. Henceforth
our chains became more galling, and spies were set over us, stimulated
by rewards under the Papia Poppaea law, so that if men shrank from the
privileges of fatherhood, the State, as universal parent, might possess
their ownerless properties. But this espionage became too searching, and
Rome and Italy and Roman citizens everywhere fell into its clutches. Many
men's fortunes were ruined, and over all there hung a terror till Tiberius,
to provide a remedy, selected by lot five ex-consuls, five ex-praetors,
and five senators, by whom most of the legal knots were disentangled and
some light temporary relief afforded. 
[3.29] About this same time he commended
to the Senate's favour, Nero, Germanicus's son, who was just entering on
manhood, and asked them, not without smiles of ridicule from his audience,
to exempt him from serving as one of the Twenty Commissioners, and let
him be a candidate for quaestorship five years earlier than the law allowed.
His excuse was that a similar decree had been made for himself and his
brother at the request of Augustus. But I cannot doubt that even then there
were some who secretly laughed at such a petition, though the Caesars were
but in the beginning of their grandeur, and ancient usage was more constantly
before men's eyes, while also the tie between stepfather and stepson was
weaker than that between grandfather and grandchild. The pontificate was
likewise conferred on Nero, and on the day on which he first entered the
forum, a gratuity was given to the city-populace, who greatly rejoiced
at seeing a son of Germanicus now grown to manhood. Their joy was further
increased by Nero's marriage to Julia, Drusus's daughter. This news was
met with favourable comments, but it was heard with disgust that Sejanus
was to be the father-in-law of the son of Claudius. The emperor was thought
to have polluted the nobility of his house and to have yet further elevated
Sejanus, whom they already suspected of overweening ambition. 
[3.30] Two remarkable men died at
the end of the year, Lucius Volusius and Sallustius Crispus. Volusius was
of an old family, which had however never risen beyond the praetorship.
He brought into it the consulship; he also held the office of censor for
arranging the classes of the knights, and was the first to pile up the
wealth which that house enjoyed to a boundless extent. Crispus was of equestrian
descent and grandson of a sister of Caius Sallustius, that most admirable
Roman historian, by whom he was adopted and whose name he took. Though
his road to preferment was easy, he chose to emulate Maecenas, and without
rising to a senator's rank, he surpassed in power many who had won triumphs
and consulships. He was a contrast to the manners of antiquity in his elegance
and refinement, and in the sumptuousness of his wealth he was almost a
voluptuary. But beneath all this was a vigorous mind, equal to the greatest
labours, the more active in proportion as he made a show of sloth and apathy.
And so while Maecenas lived, he stood next in favour to him, and was afterwards
the chief depository of imperial secrets, and accessory to the murder of
Postumus Agrippa, till in advanced age he retained the shadow rather than
the substance of the emperor's friendship. The same too had happened to
Maecenas, so rarely is it the destiny of power to be lasting, or perhaps
a sense of weariness steals over princes when they have bestowed everything,
or over favourites, when there is nothing left them to desire. 
[3.31] Next followed Tiberius's fourth,
Drusus's second consulship, memorable from the fact that father and son
were colleagues. Two years previously the association of Germanicus and
Tiberius in the same honour had not been agreeable to the uncle, nor had
it the link of so close a natural tie. At the beginning of this year Tiberius,
avowedly to recruit his health, retired to Campania, either as a gradual
preparation for long and uninterrupted seclusion, or in order that Drusus
alone in his father's absence might discharge the duties of the consulship.
It happened that a mere trifle which grew into a sharp contest gave the
young prince the means of acquiring popularity. Domitius Corbulo, an ex-praetor,
complained to the Senate that Lucius Sulla, a young noble, had not given
place to him at a gladiatorial show. Corbulo had age, national usage and
the feelings of the older senators in his favour. Against him Mamercus
Scaurus, Lucius Arruntius and other kinsmen of Sulla strenuously exerted
themselves. There was a keen debate, and appeal was made to the precedents
of our ancestors, as having censured in severe decrees disrespect on the
part of the young, till Drusus argued in a strain calculated to calm their
feelings. Corbulo too received an apology from Mamercus, who was Sulla's
uncle and stepfather, and the most fluent speaker of that day. It was this
same Corbulo, who, after raising a cry that most of the roads in Italy
were obstructed or impassable through the dishonesty of contractors and
the negligence of officials, himself willingly undertook the complete management
of the business. This proved not so beneficial to the State as ruinous
to many persons, whose property and credit he mercilessly attacked by convictions
and confiscations. 
[3.32] Soon afterwards Tiberius informed
the Senate by letter that Africa was again disturbed by an incursion of
Tacfarinas, and that they must use their judgment in choosing as proconsul
an experienced soldier of vigorous constitution, who would be equal to
the war. Sextus Pompeius caught at this opportunity of venting his hatred
against Lepidus, whom he condemned as a poor-spirited and needy man, who
was a disgrace to his ancestors, and therefore deserved to lose even his
chance of the province of Asia. But the Senate were against him, for they
thought Lepidus gentle rather than cowardly, and that his inherited poverty,
with the high rank in which he had lived without a blot, ought to be considered
a credit to instead of a reproach. And so he was sent to Asia, and with
respect to Africa it was decided that the emperor should choose to whom
it was to be assigned. 
[3.33] During this debate Severus
Caecina proposed that no magistrate who had obtained a province should
be accompanied by his wife. He began by recounting at length how harmoniously
he had lived with his wife, who had borne him six children, and how in
his own home he had observed what he was proposing for the public, by having
kept her in Italy, though he had himself served forty campaigns in various
provinces. "With good reason," he said, "had it been formerly
decided that women were not to be taken among our allies or into foreign
countries. A train of women involves delays through luxury in peace and
through panic in war, and converts a Roman army on the march into the likeness
of a barbarian progress. Not only is the sex feeble and unequal to hardship,
but, when it has liberty, it is spiteful, intriguing and greedy of power.
They show themselves off among the soldiers and have the centurions at
their beck. Lately a woman had presided at the drill of the cohorts and
the evolutions of the legions. You should yourselves bear in mind that,
whenever men are accused of extortion, most of the charges are directed
against the wives. It is to these that the vilest of the provincials instantly
attach themselves; it is they who undertake and settle business; two persons
receive homage when they appear; there are two centres of government, and
the women's orders are the more despotic and intemperate. Formerly they
were restrained by the Oppian and other laws; now, loosed from every bond,
they rule our houses, our tribunals, even our armies." 
[3.34] A few heard this speech with
approval, but the majority clamorously objected that there was no proper
motion on the subject, and that Caecina was no fit censor on so grave an
issue. Presently Valerius Messalinus, Messala's son, in whom the father's
eloquence was reproduced, replied that much of the sternness of antiquity
had been changed into a better and more genial system. "Rome,"
he said, "is not now, as formerly, beset with wars, nor are the provinces
hostile. A few concessions are made to the wants of women, but such as
are not even a burden to their husbands homes, much less to the allies.
In all other respects man and wife share alike, and this arrangement involves
no trouble in peace. War of course requires that men should be unincumbered,
but when they return what worthier solace can they have after their hardships
than a wife's society? But some wives have abandoned themselves to scheming
and rapacity. Well; even among our magistrates, are not many subject to
various passions? Still, that is not a reason for sending no one into a
province. Husbands have often been corrupted by the vices of their wives.
Are then all unmarried men blameless? The Oppian laws were formerly adopted
to meet the political necessities of the time, and subsequently there was
some remission and mitigation of them on grounds of expediency. It is idle
to shelter our own weakness under other names; for it is the husband's
fault if the wife transgresses propriety. Besides, it is wrong that because
of the imbecility of one or two men, all husbands should be cut off from
their partners in prosperity and adversity. And further, a sex naturally
weak will be thus left to itself and be at the mercy of its own voluptuousness
and the passions of others. Even with the husband's personal vigilance
the marriage tie is scarcely preserved inviolate. What would happen were
it for a number of years to be forgotten, just as in a divorce? You must
not check vices abroad without remembering the scandals of the capital."
Drusus added a few words on his own experience as a husband. "Princes,"
he said, "must often visit the extremities of their empire. How often
had the Divine Augustus travelled to West and to the East accompanied by
Livia? He had himself gone to Illyricum and, should it be expedient, he
would go to other countries, not always however with a contented mind,
if he had to tear himself from a much loved wife, the mother of his many
children." 
[3.35] Caecina's motion was thus defeated.
At the Senate's next meeting came a letter from Tiberius, which indirectly
censured them for throwing on the emperor every political care, and named
Marcus Lepidus and Junius Blaesus, one of whom was to be chosen pro-consul
of Africa. Both spoke on the subject, and Lepidus begged earnestly to be
excused. He alleged ill-health, his children's tender age, his having a
daughter to marry, and something more of which he said nothing, was well
understood, the fact that Blaesus was uncle of Sejanus and so had very
powerful interest. Blaesus replied with an affectation of refusal, but
not with the same persistency, nor was he backed up by the acquiescence
of flatterers. 
[3.36] Next was exposed an abuse,
hitherto the subject of many a whispered complaint. The vilest wretches
used a growing freedom in exciting insult and obloquy against respectable
citizens, and escaped punishment by clasping some statue of the emperor.
The very freedman or slave was often an actual terror to his patron or
master whom he would menace by word and gesture. Accordingly Caius Cestius,
a senator, argued that "though princes were like deities, yet even
the gods listened only to righteous prayers from their suppliants, and
that no one fled to the Capitol or any other temple in Rome to use it as
an auxiliary in crime. There was an end and utter subversion of all law
when, in the forum and on the threshold of the Senate House, Annia Rufilla,
whom he had convicted of fraud before a judge, assailed him with insults
and threats, while he did not himself dare to try legal proceedings, because
he was confronted by her with the emperor's image." There rose other
clamorous voices, with even more flagrant complaints, and all implored
Drusus to inflict exemplary vengeance, till he ordered Rufilla to be summoned,
and on her conviction to be confined in the common prison. 
[3.37] Considius Aequus too and Coelius
Cursor, Roman knights, were punished on the emperor's proposal, by a decree
of the Senate, for having attacked the praetor, Magius Caecilianus, with
false charges of treason. Both these results were represented as an honour
to Drusus. By moving in society at Rome, amid popular talk, his father's
dark policy, it was thought, was mitigated. Even voluptuousness in one
so young gave little offence. Better that he should incline that way, spend
his days in architecture, his nights in banquets, than that he should live
in solitude, cut off from every pleasure, and absorbed in a gloomy vigilance
and mischievous schemes. 
[3.38] Tiberius indeed and the informers
were never weary. Ancharius Priscus had prosecuted Caesius Cordus, proconsul
of Crete, for extortion, adding a charge of treason, which then crowned
all indictments. Antistius Vetus, one of the chief men of Macedonia, who
had been acquitted of adultery, was recalled by the emperor himself, with
a censure on the judges, to be tried for treason, as a seditious man who
had been implicated in the designs of Rhescuporis, when that king after
the murder of his brother Cotys had meditated war against us. The accused
was accordingly outlawed, with the further sentence that he was to be confined
in an island from which neither Macedonia nor Thrace were conveniently
accessible. As for Thrace, since the division of the kingdom between Rhoemetalces
and the children of Cotys, who because of their tender age were under the
guardianship of Trebellienus Rufus, it was divided against itself, from
not being used to our rule, and blamed Rhoemetalces no less than Trebellienus
for allowing the wrongs of his countrymen to go unpunished. The Coelaletae,
Odrusae and Dii, powerful tribes, took up arms, under different leaders,
all on a level from their obscurity. This hindered them from combining
in a formidable war. Some roused their immediate neighbourhood; others
crossed Mount Haemus, to stir up remote tribes; most of them, and the best
disciplined, besieged the king in the city of Philippopolis, founded by
the Macedonian Philip. 
[3.39] When this was known to Publius
Vellaeus who commanded the nearest army, he sent some allied cavalry and
light infantry to attack those who were roaming in quest of plunder or
of reinforcements, while he marched in person with the main strength of
the foot to raise the siege. Every operation was at the same moment successful;
the pillagers were cut to pieces; dissensions broke out among the besiegers,
and the king made a well-timed sally just as the legion arrived. A battle
or even a skirmish it did not deserve to be called, in which merely half-armed
stragglers were slaughtered without bloodshed on our side. 
[3.40] That same year, some states
of Gaul, under the pressure of heavy debts, attempted a revolt. Its most
active instigators were Julius Florus among the Treveri and Julius Sacrovir
among the Aedui. Both could show noble birth and signal services rendered
by ancestors, for which Roman citizenship had formerly been granted them,
when the gift was rare and a recompense only of merit. In secret conferences
to which the fiercest spirits were admitted, or any to whom poverty or
the fear of guilt was an irresistible stimulus to crime, they arranged
that Florus was to rouse the Belgae, Sacrovir the Gauls nearer home. These
men accordingly talked sedition before small gatherings and popular assemblies
about the perpetual tributes, the oppressive usury, the cruelty and arrogance
of their governors, hinting too that there was disaffection among our soldiers,
since they had heard of the murder of Germanicus. "It was," they
said, "a grand opportunity for the recovery of freedom, if only they
would contrast their own vigour with the exhaustion of Italy, the unwarlike
character of the city populace, and the utter weakness of Rome's armies
in all but their foreign element." 
[3.41] Scarcely a single community
was untouched by the germs of this commotion. First however in actual revolt
were the Andecavi and Turoni. Of these the former were put down by an officer,
Acilius Aviola, who had summoned a cohort which was on garrison duty at
Lugdunum. The Turoni were quelled by some legionary troops sent by Visellius
Varro who commanded in Lower Germany, and led by the same Aviola and some
Gallic chieftains who brought aid, in order that they might disguise their
disaffection and exhibit it at a better opportunity. Sacrovir too was conspicuous,
with head uncovered, cheering on his men to fight for Rome, to display,
as he said, his valour. But the prisoners asserted that he sought recognition
that he might not be a mark for missiles. Tiberius when consulted on the
matter disdained the information, and fostered the war by his irresolution.

[3.42] Florus meanwhile followed up
his designs and tried to induce a squadron of cavalry levied among the
Treveri, trained in our service and discipline, to begin hostilities by
a massacre of the Roman traders. He corrupted a few of the men, but the
majority were steadfast in their allegiance. A host however of debtors
and dependents took up arms, and they were on their way to the forest passes
known as the Arduenna, when they were stopped by legions which Visellius
and Silius had sent from their respective armies, by opposite routes, to
meet them. Julius Indus from the same state, who was at feud with Florus
and therefore particularly eager to render us a service, was sent on in
advance with a picked force, and dispersed the undisciplined rabble. Florus
after eluding the conquerors by hiding himself in one place after another,
at last when he saw some soldiers who had barred every possible escape,
fell by his own hand. Such was the end of the rebellion of the Treveri.

[3.43] A more formidable movement
broke out among the Aedui, proportioned to the greater wealth of the state
and the distance of the force which should repress it. Sacrovir with some
armed cohorts had made himself master of Augustodunum, the capital of the
tribe, with the noblest youth of Gaul, there devoting themselves to a liberal
education, and with such hostages he proposed to unite in his cause their
parents and kinsfolk. He also distributed among the youth arms which he
had had secretly manufactured. There were forty thousand, one fifth armed
like our legionaries; the rest had spears and knives and other weapons
used in the chase. In addition were some slaves who were being trained
for gladiators, clad after the national fashion in a complete covering
of steel. They were called crupellarii, and though they were ill-adapted
for inflicting wounds, they were impenetrable to them. This army was continually
increased, not yet by any open combination of the neighbouring states,
but by zealous individual enthusiasm, as well as by strife between the
Roman generals, each of whom claimed the war for himself. Varro after a
while, as he was infirm and aged, yielded to Silius who was in his prime.

[3.44] At Rome meanwhile people said
that it was not only the Treveri and Aedui who had revolted, but sixty-four
states of Gaul with the Germans in alliance, while Spain too was disaffected;
anything in fact was believed, with rumour's usual exaggeration. All good
men were saddened by anxiety for the country, but many in their loathing
of the present system and eagerness for change, rejoiced at their very
perils and exclaimed against Tiberius for giving attention amid such political
convulsions to the calumnies of informers. "Was Sacrovir too,"
they asked, "to be charged with treason before the Senate? We have
at last found men to check those murderous missives by the sword. Even
war is a good exchange for a miserable peace." Tiberius all the more
studiously assumed an air of unconcern. He changed neither his residence
nor his look, but kept up his usual demeanour during the whole time, either
from the profoundness of his reserve; or was it that he had convinced himself
that the events were unimportant and much more insignificant than the rumours
represented? 
[3.45] Silius meantime was advancing
with two legions, and having sent forward some auxiliary troops was ravaging
those villages of the Sequani, which, situated on the border, adjoin the
Aedui, and were associated with them in arms. He then pushed on by forced
marches to Augustodunum, his standard-bearers vying in zeal, and even the
privates loudly protesting against any halt for their usual rest or during
the hours of night. "Only," they said, "let us have the
foe face to face; that will be enough for victory." Twelve miles from
Augustodunum they saw before them Sacrovir and his army in an open plain.
His men in armour he had posted in the van, his light infantry on the wings,
and the half-armed in the rear. He himself rode amid the foremost ranks
on a splendid charger, reminding them of the ancient glories of the Gauls,
of the disasters they had inflicted on the Romans, how grand would be the
freedom of the victorious, how more intolerable than ever the slavery of
a second conquest. 
[3.46] His words were brief and heard
without exultation. For now the legions in battle array were advancing,
and the rabble of townsfolk who knew nothing of war had their faculties
of sight and hearing quite paralysed. Silius, on the one hand, though confident
hope took away any need for encouragement, exclaimed again and again that
it was a shame to the conquerors of Germany to have to be led against Gauls,
as against an enemy. "Only the other day the rebel Turoni had been
discomfited by a single cohort, the Treveri by one cavalry squadron, the
Sequani by a few companies of this very army. Prove to these Aedui once
for all that the more they abound in wealth and luxury, the more unwarlike
are they, but spare them when they flee." Then there was a deafening
cheer; the cavalry threw itself on the flanks, and the infantry charged
the van. On the wings there was but a brief resistance. The men in mail
were somewhat of an obstacle, as the iron plates did not yield to javelins
or swords; but our men, snatching up hatchets and pickaxes, hacked at their
bodies and their armour as if they were battering a wall. Some beat down
the unwieldy mass with pikes and forked poles, and they were left lying
on the ground, without an effort to rise, like dead men. Sacrovir with
his most trustworthy followers hurried first to Augustodunum and then,
from fear of being surrendered, to an adjacent country house. There by
his own hand he fell, and his comrades by mutually inflicted wounds. The
house was fired over their heads, and with it they were all consumed. 
[3.47] Then at last Tiberius informed
the Senate by letter of the beginning and completion of the war, without
either taking away from or adding to the truth, but ascribing the success
to the loyalty and courage of his generals, and to his own policy. He also
gave the reasons why neither he himself nor Drusus had gone to the war;
he magnified the greatness of the empire, and said it would be undignified
for emperors, whenever there was a commotion in one or two states, to quit
the capital, the centre of all government. Now, as he was not influenced
by fear, he would go to examine and settle matters. The Senate decreed
vows for his safe return, with thanksgivings and other appropriate ceremonies.
Cornelius Dolabella alone, in endeavouring to outdo the other Senators,
went the length of a preposterous flattery by proposing that he should
enter Rome from Campania with an ovation. Thereupon came a letter from
the emperor, declaring that he was not so destitute of renown as after
having subdued the most savage nations and received or refused so many
triumphs in his youth, to covet now that he was old an unmeaning honour
for a tour in the neighbourhood of Rome. 
[3.48] About the same time he requested
the Senate to let the death of Sulpicius Quirinus be celebrated with a
public funeral. With the old patrician family of the Sulpicii this Quirinus,
who was born in the town of Lanuvium, was quite unconnected. An indefatigable
soldier, he had by his zealous services won the consulship under the Divine
Augustus, and subsequently the honours of a triumph for having stormed
some fortresses of the Homonadenses in Cilicia. He was also appointed adviser
to Caius Caesar in the government of Armenia, and had likewise paid court
to Tiberius, who was then at Rhodes. The emperor now made all this known
to the Senate, and extolled the good offices of Quirinus to himself, while
he censured Marcus Lollius, whom he charged with encouraging Caius Caesar
in his perverse and quarrelsome behaviour. But people generally had no
pleasure in the memory of Quirinus, because of the perils he had brought,
as I have related, on Lepida, and the meanness and dangerous power of his
last years. 
[3.49] At the close of the year, Caius
Lutorius Priscus, a Roman knight, who, after writing a popular poem bewailing
the death of Germanicus, had received a reward in money from the emperor,
was fastened on by an informer, and charged with having composed another
during the illness of Drusus, which, in the event of the prince's death,
might be published with even greater profit to himself. He had in his vanity
read it in the house of Publius Petronius before Vitellia, Petronius's
mother-in-law, and several ladies of rank. As soon as the accuser appeared,
all but Vitellia were frightened into giving evidence. She alone swore
that she had heard not a word. But those who criminated him fatally were
rather believed, and on the motion of Haterius Agrippa, the consul-elect,
the last penalty was invoked on the accused. 
[3.50] Marcus Lepidus spoke against
the sentence as follows: - "Senators, if we look to the single fact
of the infamous utterance with which Lutorius has polluted his own mind
and the ears of the public, neither dungeon nor halter nor tortures fit
for a slave would be punishment enough for him. But though vice and wicked
deeds have no limit, penalties and correctives are moderated by the clemency
of the sovereign and by the precedents of your ancestors and yourselves.
Folly differs from wickedness; evil words from evil deeds, and thus there
is room for a sentence by which this offence may not go unpunished, while
we shall have no cause to regret either leniency or severity. Often have
I heard our emperor complain when any one has anticipated his mercy by
a self-inflicted death. Lutorius's life is still safe; if spared, he will
be no danger to the State; if put to death, he will be no warning to others.
His productions are as empty and ephemeral as they are replete with folly.
Nothing serious or alarming is to be apprehended from the man who is the
betrayer of his own shame and works on the imaginations not of men but
of silly women. However, let him leave Rome, lose his property, and be
outlawed. That is my proposal, just as though he were convicted under the
law of treason." 
[3.51] Only one of the ex-consuls,
Rubellius Blandus, supported Lepidus. The rest voted with Agrippa. Priscus
was dragged off to prison and instantly put to death. Of this Tiberius
complained to the Senate with his usual ambiguity, extolling their loyalty
in so sharply avenging the very slightest insults to the sovereign, though
he deprecated such hasty punishment of mere words, praising Lepidus and
not censuring Agrippa. So the Senate passed a resolution that their decrees
should not be registered in the treasury till nine days had expired, and
so much respite was to be given to condemned persons. Still the Senate
had not liberty to alter their purpose, and lapse of time never softened
Tiberius. 
[3.52] Caius Sulpicius and Didius
Haterius were the next consuls. It was a year free from commotions abroad,
while at home stringent legislation was apprehended against the luxury
which had reached boundless excess in everything on which wealth is lavished.
Some expenses, though very serious, were generally kept secret by a concealment
of the real prices; but the costly preparations for gluttony and dissipation
were the theme of incessant talk, and had suggested a fear that a prince
who clung to oldfashioned frugality would be too stern in his reforms.
In fact, when the aedile Caius Bibulus broached the topic, all his colleagues
had pointed out that the sumptuary laws were disregarded, that prohibited
prices for household articles were every day on the increase, and that
moderate measures could not stop the evil. The Senate on being consulted
had, without handling the matter, referred it to the emperor. Tiberius,
after long considering whether such reckless tastes could be repressed,
whether the repression of them would not be still more hurtful to the State,
also, how undignified it would be to meddle with what he could not succeed
in, or what, if effected, would necessitate the disgrace and infamy of
men of distinction, at last addressed a letter to the Senate to the following
purport:- 
[3.53] Perhaps in any other matter,
Senators, it would be more convenient that I should be consulted in your
presence, and then state what I think to be for the public good. In this
debate it was better that my eyes should not be on you, for while you were
noting the anxious faces of individual senators charged with shameful luxury,
I too myself might observe them and, as it were, detect them. Had those
energetic men, our aediles, first taken counsel with me, I do not know
whether I should not have advised them to let alone vices so strong and
so matured, rather than merely attain the result of publishing what are
the corruptions with which we cannot cope. They however have certainly
done their duty, as I would wish all other officials likewise to fulfil
their parts. For myself, it is neither seemly to keep silence nor is it
easy to speak my mind, as I do not hold the office of aedile, praetor,
or consul. Something greater and loftier is expected of a prince, and while
everybody takes to himself the credit of right policy, one alone has to
bear the odium of every person's failures. For what am I first to begin
with restraining and cutting down to the old standard? The vast dimensions
of country houses? The number of slaves of every nationality? The masses
of silver and gold? The marvels in bronze and painting? The apparel worn
indiscriminately by both sexes, or that peculiar luxury of women which,
for the sake of jewels, diverts our wealth to strange or hostile nations?

[3.54] I am not unaware that people
at entertainments and social gatherings condemn all this and demand some
restriction. But if a law were to be passed and a penalty imposed, those
very same persons will cry out that the State is revolutionised, that ruin
is plotted against all our most brilliant fashion, that not a citizen is
safe from incrimination. Yet as even bodily disorders of long standing
and growth can be checked only by sharp and painful treatment, so the fever
of a diseased mind, itself polluted and a pollution to others, can be quenched
only by remedies as strong as the passions which inflame it. Of the many
laws devised by our ancestors, of the many passed by the Divine Augustus,
the first have been forgotten, while his (all the more to our disgrace)
have become obsolete through contempt, and this has made luxury bolder
than ever. The truth is, that when one craves something not yet forbidden,
there is a fear that it may be forbidden; but when people once transgress
prohibitions with impunity, there is no longer any fear or any shame. Why
then in old times was economy in the ascendant? Because every one practised
self-control; because we were all members of one city. Nor even afterwards
had we the same temptations, while our dominion was confined to Italy.
Victories over the foreigner taught us how to waste the substance of others;
victories over ourselves, how to squander our own. What a paltry matter
is this of which the aediles are reminding us! What a mere trifle if you
look at everything else! No one represents to the Senate that Italy requires
supplies from abroad, and that the very existence of the people of Rome
is daily at the mercy of uncertain waves and storms. And unless masters,
slaves, and estates have the resources of the provinces as their mainstay,
our shrubberies, forsooth, and our country houses will have to support
us. Such, Senators, are the anxieties which the prince has to sustain,
and the neglect of them will be utter ruin to the State. The cure for other
evils must be sought in our own hearts. Let us be led to amendment, the
poor by constraint, the rich by satiety. Or if any of our officials give
promise of such energy and strictness as can stem the corruption, I praise
the man, and I confess that I am relieved of a portion of my burdens. But
if they wish to denounce vice, and when they have gained credit for so
doing they arouse resentments and leave them to me, be assured, Senators,
that I too am by no means eager to incur enmities, and though for the public
good I encounter formidable and often unjust enmities, yet I have a right
to decline such as are unmeaning and purposeless and will be of use neither
to myself nor to you. 
[3.55] When they had heard the emperor's
letter, the aediles were excused from so anxious a task, and that luxury
of the table which from the close of the war ended at Actium to the armed
revolution in which Servius Galba rose to empire, had been practised with
profuse expenditure, gradually went out of fashion. It is as well that
I should trace the causes of this change. Formerly rich or highly distinguished
noble families often sank into ruin from a passion for splendour. Even
then men were still at liberty to court and be courted by the city populace,
by our allies and by foreign princes, and every one who from his wealth,
his mansion and his establishment was conspicuously grand, gained too proportionate
lustre by his name and his numerous clientele. After the savage massacres
in which greatness of renown was fatal, the survivors turned to wiser ways.
The new men who were often admitted into the Senate from the towns, colonies
and even the provinces, introduced their household thrift, and though many
of them by good luck or energy attained an old age of wealth, still their
former tastes remained. But the chief encourager of strict manners was
Vespasian, himself old-fashioned both in his dress and diet. Henceforth
a respectful feeling towards the prince and a love of emulation proved
more efficacious than legal penalties or terrors. Or possibly there is
in all things a kind of cycle, and there may be moral revolutions just
as there are changes of seasons. Nor was everything better in the past,
but our own age too has produced many specimens of excellence and culture
for posterity to imitate. May we still keep up with our ancestors a rivalry
in all that is honourable! 
[3.56] Tiberius having gained credit
for forbearance by the check he had given to the growing terror of the
informers, wrote a letter to the Senate requesting the tribunitian power
for Drusus. This was a phrase which Augustus devised as a designation of
supremacy, so that without assuming the name of king or dictator he might
have some title to mark his elevation above all other authority. He then
chose Marcus Agrippa to be his associate in this power, and on Agrippa's
death, Tiberius Nero, that there might be no uncertainty as to the succession.
In this manner he thought to check the perverse ambition of others, while
he had confidence in Nero's moderation and in his own greatness. Following
this precedent, Tiberius now placed Drusus next to the throne, though while
Germanicus was alive he had maintained an impartial attitude towards the
two princes. However in the beginning of his letter he implored heaven
to prosper his plans on behalf of the State, and then added a few remarks,
without falsehood or exaggeration, on the character of the young prince.
He had, he reminded them, a wife and three children, and his age was the
same as that at which he had himself been formerly summoned by the Divine
Augustus to undertake this duty. Nor was it a precipitate step; it was
only after an experience of eight years, after having quelled mutinies
and settled wars, after a triumph and two consulships, that he was adopted
as a partner in trials already familiar to him. 
[3.57] The senators had anticipated
this message and hence their flattery was the more elaborate. But they
could devise nothing but voting statues of the two princes, shrines to
certain deities, temples, arches and the usual routine, except that Marcus
Silanus sought to honour the princes by a slur on the consulate, and proposed
that on all monuments, public or private, should be inscribed, to mark
the date, the names, not of the consuls, but of those who were holding
the tribunitian power. Quintus Haterius, when he brought forward a motion
that the decrees passed that day should be set up in the Senate House in
letters of gold, was laughed at as an old dotard, who would get nothing
but infamy out of such utterly loathsome sycophancy. 
[3.58] Meantime Junius Blaesus received
an extension of his government of Africa, and Servius Maluginensis, the
priest of Jupiter, demanded to have Asia allotted to him. "It was,"
he asserted, "a popular error that it was not lawful for the priests
of Jupiter to leave Italy; in fact, his own legal position differed not
from that of the priests of Mars and of Quirinus. If these latter had provinces
allotted to them, why was it forbidden to the priests of Jupiter? There
were no resolutions of the people or anything to be found in the books
of ceremonies on the subject. Pontiffs had often performed the rites to
Jupiter when his priest was hindered by illness or by public duty. For
seventy-five years after the suicide of Cornelius Merula no successor to
his office had been appointed; yet religious rites had not ceased. If during
so many years it was possible for there to be no appointment without any
prejudice to religion, with what comparative ease might he be absent for
one year's proconsulate? That these priests in former days were prohibited
by the pontiff from going into the provinces, was the result of private
feuds. Now, thank heaven, the supreme pontiff was also the supreme man,
and was influenced by no rivalry, hatred or personal feeling." 
[3.59] As the augur Lentulus and others
argued on various grounds against this view, the result was that they awaited
the decision of the supreme pontiff. Tiberius deferred any investigation
into the priest's legal position, but he modified the ceremonies which
had been decreed in honour of Drusus's tribunitian power with special censure
on the extravagance of the proposed inscription in gold, so contrary to
national usage. Letters also from Drusus were read, which, though studiously
modest in expression, were taken to be extremely supercilious. "We
have fallen so low," people said, "that even a mere youth who
has received so high an honour does not go as a worshipper to the city's
gods, does not enter the Senate, does not so much as take the auspices
on his country's soil. There is a war, forsooth, or he is kept from us
in some remote part of the world. Why, at this very moment, he is on a
tour amid the shores and lakes of Campania. Such is the training of the
future ruler of mankind; such the lesson he first learns from his father's
counsels. An aged emperor may indeed shrink from the citizen's gaze, and
plead the weariness of declining years and the toils of the past. But,
as for Drusus, what can be his hindrance but pride?" 
[3.60] Tiberius meantime, while securing
to himself the substance of imperial power, allowed the Senate some shadow
of its old constitution by referring to its investigation certain demands
of the provinces. In the Greek cities license and impunity in establishing
sanctuaries were on the increase. Temples were thronged with the vilest
of the slaves; the same refuge screened the debtor against his creditor,
as well as men suspected of capital offences. No authority was strong enough
to check the turbulence of a people which protected the crimes of men as
much as the worship of the gods. It was accordingly decided that the different
states were to send their charters and envoys to Rome. Some voluntarily
relinquished privileges which they had groundlessly usurped; many trusted
to old superstitions, or to their services to the Roman people. It was
a grand spectacle on that day, when the Senate examined grants made by
our ancestors, treaties with allies, even decrees of kings who had flourished
before Rome's ascendancy, and the forms of worship of the very deities,
with full liberty as in former days, to ratify or to alter. 
[3.61] First of all came the people
of Ephesus. They declared that Diana and Apollo were not born at Delos,
as was the vulgar belief. They had in their own country a river Cenchrius,
a grove Ortygia, where Latona, as she leaned in the pangs of labour on
an olive still standing, gave birth to those two deities, whereupon the
grove at the divine intimation was consecrated. There Apollo himself, after
the slaughter of the Cyclops, shunned the wrath of Jupiter; there too father
Bacchus, when victorious in war, pardoned the suppliant Amazons who had
gathered round the shrine. Subsequently by the permission of Hercules,
when he was subduing Lydia, the grandeur of the temple's ceremonial was
augmented, and during the Persian rule its privileges were not curtailed.
They had afterwards been maintained by the Macedonians, then by ourselves.

[3.62] Next the people of Magnesia
relied on arrangements made by Lucius Scipio and Lucius Sulla. These generals,
after respectively defeating Antiochus and Mithridates, honoured the fidelity
and courage of the Magnesians by allowing the temple of Diana of the White
Brow to be an inviolable sanctuary. Then the people of Aphrodisia produced
a decree of the dictator Caesar for their old services to his party, and
those of Stratonicea, one lately passed by the Divine Augustus, in which
they were commended for having endured the Parthian invasion without wavering
in their loyalty to the Roman people. Aphrodisia maintained the worship
of Venus; Stratonicea, that of Jupiter and of Diana of the Cross Ways.
Hierocaesarea went back to a higher antiquity, and spoke of having a Persian
Diana, whose fane was consecrated in the reign of Cyrus. They quoted too
the names of Perperna, Isauricus, and many other generals who had conceded
the same sacred character not only to the temple but to its precincts for
two miles. Then came the Cyprians on behalf of three shrines, the oldest
of which had been set up by their founder Aerias to the Paphian Venus,
the second by his son Amathus to Venus of Amathus, and the last to Jupiter
of Salamis, by Teucer when he fled from the wrath of his father Telamon.

[3.63] Audience was also given to
embassies from other states. The senators wearied by their multiplicity
and seeing the party spirit that was being roused, intrusted the inquiry
to the consuls, who were to sift each title and see if it involved any
abuse, and then refer back the entire matter to the Senate. Besides the
states already mentioned, the consuls reported that they had ascertained
that at Pergamus there was a sanctuary of Aesculapius, but that the rest
relied on an origin lost in the obscurity of antiquity. For example, the
people of Smyrna quoted an oracle of Apollo, which had commanded them to
dedicate a temple to Venus Stratonicis; and the islanders of Tenos, an
utterance from the same deity, bidding them consecrate a statue and a fane
to Neptune. Sardis preferred a more modern claim, a grant from the victorious
Alexander. So again Miletus relied on king Darius. But in each case their
religious worship was that of Diana or Apollo. The Cretans too demanded
a like privilege for a statue of the Divine Augustus. Decrees of the Senate
were passed, which though very respectful, still prescribed certain limits,
and the petitioners were directed to set up bronze tablets in each temple,
to be a sacred memorial and to restrain them from sinking into selfish
aims under the mask of religion. 
[3.64] About this time Julia Augusta
had an alarming illness, which compelled the emperor to hasten his return
to Rome, for hitherto there had been a genuine harmony between the mother
and son, or a hatred well concealed. Not long before, for instance, Julia
in dedicating a statue to the Divine Augustus near the theatre of Marcellus
had inscribed the name of Tiberius below her own, and it was surmised that
the emperor, regarding this as a slight on a sovereign's dignity, had brooded
over it with deep and disguised resentment. However the Senate now decreed
supplications to the gods and the celebration of the Great Games, which
were to be exhibited by the pontiffs, augurs, the colleges of the Fifteen
and of the Seven, with the Augustal Brotherhood. Lucius Apronius moved
that the heralds too should preside over these Games. This the emperor
opposed, distinguishing the peculiar privileges of the sacred guilds, and
quoting precedents. Never, he argued, had the heralds this dignity. "The
Augustal priests were included expressly because their sacred office was
specially attached to the family for which vows were being performed."

[3.65] My purpose is not to relate
at length every motion, but only such as were conspicuous for excellence
or notorious for infamy. This I regard as history's highest function, to
let no worthy action be uncommemorated, and to hold out the reprobation
of posterity as a terror to evil words and deeds. So corrupted indeed and
debased was that age by sycophancy that not only the foremost citizens
who were forced to save their grandeur by servility, but every exconsul,
most of the ex-praetors and a host of inferior senators would rise in eager
rivalry to propose shameful and preposterous motions. Tradition says that
Tiberius as often as he left the Senate-House used to exclaim in Greek,
"How ready these men are to be slaves." Clearly, even he, with
his dislike of public freedom, was disgusted at the abject abasement of
his creatures. 
[3.66] From unseemly flatteries they
passed by degrees to savage acts. Caius Silanus, pro-consul of Asia, was
accused by our allies of extortion; whereupon Mamercus Scaurus, an ex-consul,
Junius Otho, a praetor, Brutidius Niger, an aedile, simultaneously fastened
on him and charged him with sacrilege to the divinity of Augustus, and
contempt of the majesty of Tiberius, while Mamercus Scaurus quoted old
precedents, the prosecutions of Lucius Cotta by Scipio Africanus, of Servius
Galba by Cato the Censor and of Publius Rutilius by Scaurus. As if indeed
Scipio's and Cato's vengeance fell on such offences, or that of the famous
Scaurus, whom his great grandson, a blot on his ancestry, this Mamercus
was now disgracing by his infamous occupation. Junius Otho's old employment
had been the keeping of a preparatory school. Subsequently, becoming a
senator by the influence of Sejanus, he shamed his origin, low as it was,
by his unblushing effronteries. Brutidius who was rich in excellent accomplishments,
and was sure, had he pursued a path of virtue, to reach the most brilliant
distinction, was goaded on by an eager impatience, while he strove to outstrip
his equals, then his superiors, and at last even his own aspirations. Many
have thus perished, even good men, despising slow and safe success and
hurrying on even at the cost of ruin to premature greatness. 
[3.67] Gellius Publicola and Marcus
Paconius, respectively quaestor and lieutenant of Silanus, swelled the
number of the accusers. No doubt was felt as to the defendant's conviction
for oppression and extortion, but there was a combination against him,
that must have been perilous even to an innocent man. Besides a host of
adverse Senators there were the most accomplished orators of all Asia,
who, as such, had been retained for the prosecution, and to these he had
to reply alone, without any experience in pleading, and under that personal
apprehension which is enough to paralyse even the most practised eloquence.
For Tiberius did not refrain from pressing him with angry voice and look,
himself putting incessant questions, without allowing him to rebut or evade
them, and he had often even to make admissions, that the questions might
not have been asked in vain. His slaves too were sold by auction to the
state-agent, to be examined by torture. And that not a friend might help
him in his danger, charges of treason were added, a binding guarantee for
sealed lips. Accordingly he begged a few days' respite, and at last abandoned
his defence, after venturing on a memorial to the emperor, in which he
mingled reproach and entreaty. 
[3.68] Tiberius, that his proceedings
against Silanus might find some justification in precedent, ordered the
Divine Augustus's indictment of Volesus Messala, also a proconsul of Asia,
and the Senate's sentence on him to be read. He then asked Lucius Piso
his opinion. After a long preliminary eulogy on the prince's clemency,
Piso pronounced that Silanus ought to be outlawed and banished to the island
of Gyarus. The rest concurred, with the exception of Cneius Lentulus, who,
with the assent of Tiberius, proposed that the property of Silanus's mother,
as she was very different from him, should be exempted from confiscation,
and given to the son. 
[3.69] Cornelius Dolabella however,
by way of carrying flattery yet further, sharply censured the morals of
Silanus, and then moved that no one of disgraceful life and notorious infamy
should be eligible for a province, and that of this the emperor should
be judge. "Laws, indeed," he said, "punish crimes committed;
but how much more merciful would it be to individuals, how much better
for our allies, to provide against their commission." The emperor
opposed the motion. "Although," he said, "I am not ignorant
of the reports about Silanus, still we must decide nothing by hearsay.
Many a man has behaved in a province quite otherwise than was hoped or
feared of him. Some are roused to higher things by great responsibility;
others are paralysed by it. It is not possible for a prince's knowledge
to embrace everything, and it is not expedient that he should be exposed
to the ambitious schemings of others. Laws are ordained to meet facts,
inasmuch as the future is uncertain. It was the rule of our ancestors that,
whenever there was first an offence, some penalty should follow. Let us
not revolutionise a wisely devised and ever approved system. Princes have
enough burdens, and also enough power. Rights are invariably abridged,
as despotism increases; nor ought we to fall back on imperial authority,
when we can have recourse to the laws." Such constitutional sentiments
were so rare with Tiberius, that they were welcomed with all the heartier
joy. Knowing, as he did, how to be forbearing, when he was not under the
stimulus of personal resentment, he further said that Gyarus was a dreary
and uninhabited island, and that, as a concession to the Junian family
and to a man of the same order as themselves, they might let him retire
by preference to Cythnus. This, he added, was also the request of Torquata,
Silanus's sister, a vestal of primitive purity. The motion was carried
after a division. 
[3.70] Audience was next given to
the people of Cyrene, and on the prosecution of Ancharius Priscus, Caesius
Cordus was convicted of extortion. Lucius Ennius, a Roman knight, was accused
of treason, for having converted a statue of the emperor to the common
use of silver plate; but the emperor forbade his being put upon his trial,
though Ateius Capito openly remonstrated, with a show of independence.
"The Senate," he said, "ought not to have wrested from it
the power of deciding a question, and such a crime must not go unpunished.
Granted that the emperor might be indifferent to a personal grievance,
still he should not be generous in the case of wrongs to the commonwealth."
Tiberius interpreted the remark according to its drift rather than its
mere expression, and persisted in his veto. Capito's disgrace was the more
conspicuous, for, versed as he was in the science of law, human and divine,
he had now dishonoured a brilliant public career as well as a virtuous
private life. 
[3.71] Next came a religious question,
as to the temple in which ought to be deposited the offering which the
Roman knights had vowed to Fortune of the Knights for the recovery of Augusta.
Although that Goddess had several shrines in Rome, there was none with
this special designation. It was ascertained that there was a temple so
called at Antium, and that all sacred rites in the towns of Italy as well
as temples and images of deities were under the jurisdiction and authority
of Rome. Accordingly the offering was placed at Antium. As religious questions
were under discussion, the emperor now produced his answer to Servius Maluginensis,
Jupiter's priest, which he had recently deferred, and read the pontifical
decree, prescribing that whenever illness attacked a priest of Jupiter,
he might, with the supreme pontiff's permission, be absent more than two
nights, provided it was not during the days of public sacrifice or more
than twice in the same year. This regulation of the emperor Augustus sufficiently
proved that a year's absence and a provincial government were not permitted
to the priests of Jupiter. There was also cited the precedent of Lucius
Metellus, supreme pontiff, who had detained at Rome the priest Aulus Postumius.
And so Asia was allotted to the exconsul next in seniority to Maluginensis.

[3.72] About the same time Lepidus
asked the Senate's leave to restore and embellish, at his own expense,
the basilica of Paulus, that monument of the Aemilian family. Public-spirited
munificence was still in fashion, and Augustus had not hindered Taurus,
Philippus, or Balbus from applying the spoils of war or their superfluous
wealth to adorn the capital and to win the admiration of posterity. Following
these examples, Lepidus, though possessed of a moderate fortune, now revived
the glory of his ancestors. Pompeius's theatre, which had been destroyed
by an accidental fire, the emperor promised to rebuild, simply because
no member of the family was equal to restoring it, but Pompeius's name
was to be retained. At the same time he highly extolled Sejanus on the
ground that it was through his exertions and vigilance that such fury of
the flames had been confined to the destruction of a single building. The
Senate voted Sejanus a statue, which was to be placed in Pompeius's theatre.
And soon afterwards the emperor in honouring Junius Blaesus proconsul of
Africa, with triumphal distinctions, said that he granted them as a compliment
to Sejanus, whose uncle Blaesus was. 
[3.73] Still the career of Blaesus
merited such a reward. For Tacfarinas, though often driven back, had recruited
his resources in the interior of Africa, and had become so insolent as
to send envoys to Tiberius, actually demanding a settlement for himself
and his army, or else threatening us with an interminable war. Never, it
is said, was the emperor so exasperated by an insult to himself and the
Roman people as by a deserter and brigand assuming the character of a belligerent.
"Even Spartacus when he had destroyed so many consular armies and
was burning Italy with impunity, though the State was staggering under
the tremendous wars of Sertorius and Mithridates, had not the offer of
an honourable surrender on stipulated conditions; far less, in Rome's most
glorious height of power, should a robber like Tacfarinas be bought off
by peace and concessions of territory." He intrusted the affair to
Blaesus, who was to hold out to the other rebels the prospect of laying
down their arms without hurt to themselves, while he was by any means to
secure the person of the chief. Many surrendered themselves on the strength
of this amnesty. Before long the tactics of Tacfarinas were encountered
in a similar fashion. 
[3.74] Unequal to us in solid military
strength, but better in a war of surprises, he would attack, would elude
pursuit, and still arrange ambuscades with a multitude of detachments.
And so we prepared three expeditions and as many columns. One of the three
under the command of Cornelius Scipio, Blaesus's lieutenant, was to stop
the enemy's forays on the Leptitani and his retreat to the Garamantes.
In another quarter, Blaesus's son led a separate force of his own, to save
the villages of Cirta from being ravaged with impunity. Between the two
was the general himself with some picked troops. By establishing redoubts
and fortified lines in commanding positions, he had rendered the whole
country embarrassing and perilous to the foe, for, whichever way he turned,
a body of Roman soldiers was in his face, or on his flank, or frequently
in the rear. Many were thus slain or surprised. Blaesus then further divided
his triple army into several detachments under the command of centurions
of tried valour. At the end of the summer he did not, as was usual, withdraw
his troops and let them rest in winter-quarters in the old province; but,
forming a chain of forts, as though he were on the threshold of a campaign,
he drove Tacfarinas by flying columns well acquainted with the desert,
from one set of huts to another, till he captured the chief's brother,
and then returned, too soon however for the welfare of our allies, as there
yet remained those who might renew hostilities. Tiberius however considered
the war as finished, and awarded Blaesus the further distinction of being
hailed "Imperator" by the legions, an ancient honour conferred
on generals who for good service to the State were saluted with cheers
of joyful enthusiasm by a victorious army. Several men bore the title at
the same time, without pre-eminence above their fellows. Augustus too granted
the name to certain persons; and now, for the last time, Tiberius gave
it to Blaesus. 
[3.75] Two illustrious men died that
year. One was Asinius Saloninus, distinguished as the grandson of Marcus
Agrippa, and Asinius Pollio, as the brother of Drusus and the intended
husband of the emperor's granddaughter. The other was Capito Ateius, already
mentioned, who had won a foremost position in the State by his legal attainments,
though his grandfather was but a centurion in Sulla's army, his father
having been a praetor. He was prematurely advanced to the consulship by
Augustus, so that he might be raised by the honour of this promotion above
Labeo Antistius, a conspicuous member of the same profession. That age
indeed produced at one time two brilliant ornaments of peace. But while
Labeo was a man of sturdy independence and consequently of wider fame,
Capito's obsequiousness was more acceptable to those in power. Labeo, because
his promotion was confined to the praetorship, gained in public favour
through the wrong; Capito, in obtaining the consulship, incurred the hatred
which grows out of envy. 
[3.76] Junia too, the niece of Cato,
wife of Caius Cassius and sister of Marcus Brutus, died this year, the
sixty-fourth after the battle of Philippi. Her will was the theme of much
popular criticism, for, with her vast wealth, after having honourably mentioned
almost every nobleman by name, she passed over the emperor. Tiberius took
the omission graciously and did not forbid a panegyric before the Rostra
with the other customary funeral honours. The busts of twenty most illustrious
families were borne in the procession, with the names of Manlius, Quinctius,
and others of equal rank. But Cassius and Brutus outshone them all, from
the very fact that their likenesses were not to be seen. 
Book 4 - (A.D. 23-28)
[4.1] THE year when Caius Asinius and
Caius Antistius were consuls was the ninth of Tiberius's reign, a period
of tranquillity for the State and prosperity for his own house, for he
counted Germanicus's death a happy incident. Suddenly fortune deranged
everything; the emperor became a cruel tyrant, as well as an abettor of
cruelty in others. Of this the cause and origin was Aelius Sejanus, commander
of the praetorian cohorts, of whose influence I have already spoken. I
will now fully describe his extraction, his character, and the daring wickedness
by which he grasped at power. Born at Vulsinii, the son of Seius Strabo,
a Roman knight, he attached himself in his early youth to Caius Caesar,
grandson of the Divine Augustus, and the story went that he had sold his
person to Apicius, a rich debauchee. Soon afterwards he won the heart of
Tiberius so effectually by various artifices that the emperor, ever dark
and mysterious towards others, was with Sejanus alone careless and freespoken.
It was not through his craft, for it was by this very weapon that he was
overthrown; it was rather from heaven's wrath against Rome, to whose welfare
his elevation and his fall were alike disastrous. He had a body which could
endure hardships, and a daring spirit. He was one who screened himself,
while he was attacking others; he was as cringing as he was imperious;
before the world he affected humility; in his heart he lusted after supremacy,
for the sake of which he sometimes lavish and luxurious, but oftener energetic
and watchful, qualities quite as mischievous when hypocritically assumed
for the attainment of sovereignty. 
[4.2] He strengthened the hitherto
moderate powers of his office by concentrating the cohorts scattered throughout
the capital into one camp, so that they might all receive orders at the
same moment, and that the sight of their numbers and strength might give
confidence to themselves, while it would strike terror into the citizens.
His pretexts were the demoralisation incident to a dispersed soldiery,
the greater effectiveness of simultaneous action in the event of a sudden
peril, and the stricter discipline which would be insured by the establishment
of an encampment at a distance from the temptations of the city. As soon
as the camp was completed, he crept gradually into the affections of the
soldiers by mixing with them and addressing them by name, himself selecting
the centurions and tribunes. With the Senate too he sought to ingratiate
himself, distinguishing his partisans with offices and provinces, Tiberius
readily yielding, and being so biassed that not only in private conversation
but before the senators and the people he spoke highly of him as the partner
of his toils, and allowed his statues to be honoured in theatres, in forums,
and at the head-quarters of our legions. 
[4.3] There were however obstacles
to his ambition in the imperial house with its many princes, a son in youthful
manhood and grown-up grandsons. As it would be unsafe to sweep off such
a number at once by violence, while craft would necessitate successive
intervals in crime, he chose, on the whole, the stealthier way and to begin
with Drusus, against whom he had the stimulus of a recent resentment. Drusus,
who could not brook a rival and was somewhat irascible, had, in a casual
dispute, raised his fist at Sejanus, and, when he defended himself, had
struck him in the face. On considering every plan Sejanus thought his easiest
revenge was to turn his attention to Livia, Drusus's wife. She was a sister
of Germanicus, and though she was not handsome as a girl, she became a
woman of surpassing beauty. Pretending an ardent passion for her, he seduced
her, and having won his first infamous triumph, and assured that a woman
after having parted with her virtue will hesitate at nothing, he lured
her on to thoughts of marriage, of a share in sovereignty, and of her husband's
destruction. And she, the niece of Augustus, the daughter-in-law of Tiberius,
the mother of children by Drusus, for a provincial paramour, foully disgraced
herself, her ancestors, and her descendants, giving up honour and a sure
position for prospects as base as they were uncertain. They took into their
confidence Eudemus, Livia's friend and physician, whose profession was
a pretext for frequent secret interviews. Sejanus, to avert his mistress's
jealousy, divorced his wife Apicata, by whom he had had three children.
Still the magnitude of the crime caused fear and delay, and sometimes a
conflict of plans. 
[4.4] Meanwhile, at the beginning of
this year, Drusus, one of the children of Germanicus, assumed the dress
of manhood, with a repetition of the honours decreed by the Senate to his
brother Nero. The emperor added a speech with warm praise of his son for
sharing a father's affection to his brother's children. Drusus indeed,
difficult as it is for power and mutual harmony to exist side by side,
had the character of being kindly disposed or at least not unfriendly towards
the lads. And now the old plan, so often insincerely broached, of a progress
through the provinces, was again discussed. The emperor's pretext was the
number of veterans on the eve of discharge and the necessity of fresh levies
for the army. Volunteers were not forthcoming, and even if they were sufficiently
numerous, they had not the same bravery and discipline, as it is chiefly
the needy and the homeless who adopt by their own choice a soldier's life.
Tiberius also rapidly enumerated the legions and the provinces which they
had to garrison. I too ought, I think, to go through these details, and
thus show what forces Rome then had under arms, what kings were our allies,
and how much narrower then were the limits of our empire. 
[4.5] Italy on both seas was guarded
by fleets, at Misenum and at Ravenna, and the contiguous coast of Gaul
by ships of war captured in the victory of Actium, and sent by Augustus
powerfully manned to the town of Forojulium. But chief strength was on
the Rhine, as a defence alike against Germans and Gauls, and numbered eight
legions. Spain, lately subjugated, was held by three. Mauretania was king
Juba's, who had received it as a gift from the Roman people. The rest of
Africa was garrisoned by two legions, and Egypt by the same number. Next,
beginning with Syria, all within the entire tract of country stretching
as far as the Euphrates, was kept in restraint by four legions, and on
this frontier were Iberian, Albanian, and other kings, to whom our greatness
was a protection against any foreign power. Thrace was held by Rhoemetalces
and the children of Cotys; the bank of the Danube by two legions in Pannonia,
two in Moesia, and two also were stationed in Dalmatia, which, from the
situation of the country, were in the rear of the other four, and, should
Italy suddenly require aid, not to distant to be summoned. But the capital
was garrisoned by its own special soldiery, three city, nine praetorian
cohorts, levied for the most part in Etruria and Umbria, or ancient Latium
and the old Roman colonies. There were besides, in commanding positions
in the provinces, allied fleets, cavalry and light infantry, of but little
inferior strength. But any detailed account of them would be misleading,
since they moved from place to place as circumstances required, and had
their numbers increased and sometimes diminished. 
[4.6] It is however, I think, a convenient
opportunity for me to review the hitherto prevailing methods of administration
in the other departments of the State, inasmuch as that year brought with
it the beginning of a change for the worse in Tiberius's policy. In the
first place, public business and the most important private matters were
managed by the Senate: the leading men were allowed freedom of discussion,
and when they stooped to flattery, the emperor himself checked them. He
bestowed honours with regard to noble ancestry, military renown, or brilliant
accomplishments as a civilian, letting it be clearly seen that there were
no better men to choose. The consul and the praetor retained their prestige;
inferior magistrates exercised their authority; the laws too, with the
single exception of cases of treason, were properly enforced. As to the
duties on corn, the indirect taxes and other branches of the public revenue,
they were in the hands of companies of Roman knights. The emperor intrusted
his own property to men of the most tried integrity or to persons known
only by their general reputation, and once appointed they were retained
without any limitation, so that most of them grew old in the same employments.
The city populace indeed suffered much from high prices, but this was no
fault of the emperor, who actually endeavoured to counteract barren soils
and stormy seas with every resource of wealth and foresight. And he was
also careful not to distress the provinces by new burdens, and to see that
in bearing the old they were safe from any rapacity or oppression on the
part of governors. Corporal punishments and confiscations of property were
unknown. 
[4.7] The emperor had only a few estates
in Italy, slaves on a moderate scale, and his household was confined to
a few freedmen. If ever he had a dispute with a private person, it was
decided in the law courts. All this, not indeed with any graciousness,
but in a blunt fashion which often alarmed, he still kept up, until the
death of Drusus changed everything. While he lived, the system continued,
because Sejanus, as yet only in the beginning of his power, wished to be
known as an upright counsellor, and there was one whose vengeance he dreaded,
who did not conceal his hatred and incessantly complained "that a
stranger was invited to assist in the government while the emperor's son
was alive. How near was the step of declaring the stranger a colleague!
Ambition at first had a steep path before it; when once the way had been
entered, zealous adherents were forthcoming. Already, at the pleasure of
the commander of the guards, a camp had been established; the soldiers
given into his hands; his statues were to be seen among the monuments of
Cneius Pompeius; his grandsons would be of the same blood as the family
of the Drusi. Henceforth they must pray that he might have self-control,
and so be contented." So would Drusus talk, not unfrequently, or only
in the hearing of a few persons. Even his confidences, now that his wife
had been corrupted, were betrayed. 
[4.8] Sejanus accordingly thought that
he must be prompt, and chose a poison the gradual working of which might
be mistaken for a natural disorder. It was given to Drusus by Lygdus, a
eunuch, as was ascertained eight years later. As for Tiberius, he went
to the Senate house during the whole time of the prince's illness, either
because he was not afraid, or to show his strength of mind, and even in
the interval between his death and funeral. Seeing the consuls, in token
of their grief, sitting on the ordinary benches, he reminded them of their
high office and of their proper place; and when the Senate burst into tears,
suppressing a groan, he revived their spirits with a fluent speech. "He
knew indeed that he might be reproached for thus encountering the gaze
of the Senate after so recent an affliction. Most mourners could hardly
bear even the soothing words of kinsfolk or to look on the light of day.
And such were not to be condemned as weak. But he had sought a more manly
consolation in the bosom of the commonwealth." Then deploring the
extreme age of Augusta, the childhood of his grandsons, and his own declining
years, he begged the Senate to summon Germanicus's children, the only comfort
under their present misery. The consuls went out, and having encouraged
the young princes with kind words, brought them in and presented them to
the emperor. Taking them by the hand he said: "Senators, when these
boys lost their father, I committed them to their uncle, and begged him,
though he had children of his own, to cherish and rear them as his own
offspring, and train them for himself and for posterity. Drusus is now
lost to us, and I turn my prayers to you, and before heaven and your country
I adjure you to receive into your care and guidance the great-grandsons
of Augustus, descendants of a most noble ancestry. So fulfil your duty
and mine. To you, Nero and Drusus, these senators are as fathers. Such
is your birth that your prosperity and adversity must alike affect the
State." 
[4.9] There was great weeping at these
words, and then many a benediction. Had the emperor set bounds to his speech,
he must have filled the hearts of his hearers with sympathy and admiration.
But he now fell back on those idle and often ridiculed professions about
restoring the republic, and the wish that the consuls or some one else
might undertake the government, and thus destroyed belief even in what
was genuine and noble. The same honours were decreed to the memory of Drusus
as to that of Germanicus, and many more were added. Such is the way with
flattery, when repeated. The funeral with its procession of statues was
singularly grand. Aeneas, the father of the Julian house, all the Alban
kings, Romulus, Rome's founder, then the Sabine nobility, Attus Clausus,
and the busts of all the other Claudii were displayed in a long train.

[4.10] In relating the death of Drusus
I have followed the narrative of most of the best historians. But I would
not pass over a rumour of the time, the strength of which is not even yet
exhausted. Sejanus, it is said, having seduced Livia into crime, next secured,
by the foulest means, the consent of Lygdus, the eunuch, as from his youth
and beauty he was his master's favourite, and one of his principal attendants.
When those who were in the secret had decided on the time and place of
the poisoning, Sejanus, with the most consummate daring, reversed his plan,
and, whispering an accusation against Drusus of intending to poison his
father, warned Tiberius to avoid the first draught offered him as he was
dining at his son's house. Thus deceived, the old emperor, on sitting down
to the banquet, took the cup and handed it to Drusus. His suspicions were
increased when Drusus, in perfect unconsciousness, drank it off with youthful
eagerness, apparently, out of fear and shame, bringing on himself the death
which he had plotted against his father. 
[4.11] These popular rumours, over
and above the fact that they are not vouched for by any good writer, may
be instantly refuted. For who, with moderate prudence, far less Tiberius
with his great experience, would have thrust destruction on a son, without
even hearing him, with his own hand too, and with an impossibility of returning
to better thoughts. Surely he would rather have had the slave who handed
the poison, tortured, have sought to discover the traitor, in short, would
have been as hesitating and tardy in the case of an only son hitherto unconvicted
of any crime, as he was naturally even with strangers. But as Sejanus had
the credit of contriving every sort of wickedness, the fact that he was
the emperor's special favourite, and that both were hated by the rest of
the world, procured belief for any monstrous fiction, and rumour too always
has a dreadful side in regard to the deaths of men in power. Besides, the
whole process of the crime was betrayed by Apicata, Sejanus's wife, and
fully divulged, under torture, by Eudemus and Lygdus. No writer has been
found sufficiently malignant to fix the guilt on Tiberius, though every
circumstance was scrutinized and exaggerated. My object in mentioning and
refuting this story is, by a conspicuous example, to put down hearsay,
and to request all into whose hands my work shall come, not to catch eagerly
at wild and improbable rumours in preference to genuine history which has
not been perverted into romance. 
[4.12] Tiberius pronounced a panegyric
on his son before the Rostra, during which the Senate and people, in appearance
rather than in heart, put on the expression and accents of sorrow, while
they inwardly rejoiced at the brightening future of the family of Germanicus.
This beginning of popularity and the ill-concealed ambition of their mother
Agrippina, hastened its downfall. Sejanus when he saw that the death of
Drusus was not avenged on the murderers and was no grief to the people,
grew bold in wickedness, and, now that his first attempt had succeeded,
speculated on the possibility of destroying the children of Germanicus,
whose succession to the throne was a certainty. There were three, and poison
could not be distributed among them, because of the singular fidelity of
their guardians and the unassailable virtue of Agrippina. So Sejanus inveighed
against Agrippina's arrogance, and worked powerfully on Augusta's old hatred
of her and on Livia's consciousness of recent guilt, and urged both these
women to represent to the emperor that her pride as a mother and her reliance
on popular enthusiasm were leading her to dream of empire. Livia availed
herself of the cunning of accusers, among whom she had selected Julius
Postumus, a man well suited to her purpose, as he had an intrigue with
Mutilia Prisca, and was consequently in the confidence of Augusta, over
whose mind Prisca had great influence. She thus made her aged grandmother,
whose nature it was to tremble for her power, irreconcilably hostile to
her grandson's widow. Agrippina's friends too were induced to be always
inciting her proud spirit by mischievous talk. 
[4.13] Tiberius meanwhile, who did
not relax his attention to business, and found solace in his work, occupied
himself with the causes of citizens at Rome and with petitions from allies.
Decrees of the Senate were passed at his proposal for relieving the cities
of Cibyra and Aegium in Asia and Achaia, which had suffered from earthquakes,
by a remission of three years' tribute. Vibius Serenus too, proconsul of
Further Spain, was condemned for violence in his official capacity, and
was banished to the island of Amorgus for his savage temper. Carsidius
Sacerdos, accused of having helped our enemy Tacfarinas with supplies of
grain, was acquitted, as was also Caius Gracchus on the same charge. Gracchus's
father, Sempronius, had taken him when a mere child to the island of Cercina
to be his companion in exile. There he grew up among outcasts who knew
nothing of a liberal education, and after a while supported himself in
Africa and Sicily by petty trade. But he did not escape the dangers of
high rank. Had not his innocence been protected by Aelius Lamia and Lucius
Apronius, successive governors of Africa, the splendid fame of that ill-starred
family and the downfall of his father would have dragged him to ruin. 
[4.14] This year too brought embassies
from the Greek communities. The people of Samos and Cos petitioned for
the confirmation of the ancient right of sanctuary for the respective temples
of Juno and Aesculapius. The Samians relied on a decree of the Amphictyonic
Council, which had the supreme decision of all questions when the Greeks,
through the cities they had founded in Asia, had possession of the sea-coast.
Cos could boast equal antiquity, and it had an additional claim connected
with the place. Roman citizens had been admitted to the temple of Aesculapius,
when king Mithridates ordered a general massacre of them throughout all
the islands and cities of Asia. Next, after various and usually fruitless
complaints from the praetors, the emperor finally brought forward a motion
about the licentious behaviour of the players. "They had often,"
he said, "sought to disturb the public peace, and to bring disgrace
on private families, and the old Oscan farce, once a wretched amusement
for the vulgar, had become at once so indecent and so popular, that it
must be checked by the Senate's authority. The players, upon this, were
banished from Italy. 
[4.15] That same year also brought
fresh sorrow to the emperor by being fatal to one of the twin sons of Drusus,
equally too by the death of an intimate friend. This was Lucilius Longus,
the partner of all his griefs and joys, the only senator who had been the
companion of his retirement in Rhodes. And so, though he was a man of humble
origin, the Senate decreed him a censor's funeral and a statue in the forum
of Augustus at the public expense. Everything indeed was as yet in the
hands of the Senate, and consequently Lucilius Capito, procurator of Asia,
who was impeached by his province, was tried by them, the emperor vehemently
asserting "that he had merely given the man authority over the slaves
and property of the imperial establishments; that if he had taken upon
himself the powers of a praetor and used military force, he had disregarded
his instructions; therefore they must hear the provincials." So the
case was heard and the accused condemned. The cities of Asia, gratified
by this retribution and the punishment inflicted in the previous year on
Caius Silanus, voted a temple to Tiberius, his mother, and the Senate,
and were permitted to build it. Nero thanked the Senators and his grandfather
on their behalf and carried with him the joyful sympathies of his audience,
who, with the memory of Germanicus fresh in their minds, imagined that
it was his face they saw, his voice they heard. The youth too had a modesty
and a grace of person worthy of a prince, the more charming because of
his peril from the notorious enmity of Sejanus. 
[4.16] About the same time the emperor
spoke on the subject of electing a priest of Jupiter in the room of Servius
Maluginensis, deceased, and of the enactment of a new law. "It was,"
he said, "the old custom to nominate together three patricians, sons
of parents wedded according to the primitive ceremony, and of these one
was to be chosen. Now however there was not the same choice as formerly,
the primitive form of marriage having been given up or being observed only
by a few persons." For this he assigned several reasons, the chief
being men's and women's indifference; then, again, the ceremony itself
had its difficulties, which were purposely avoided; and there was the objection
that the man who obtained this priesthood was emancipated from the father's
authority, as also was his wife, as passing into the husband's control.
So the Senate, Tiberius argued, ought to apply some remedy by a decree
of a law, as Augustus had accommodated certain relics of a rude antiquity
to the modern spirit. It was then decided, after a discussion of religious
questions, that the institution of the priests of Jupiter should remain
unchanged. A law however was passed that the priestess, in regard to her
sacred functions, was to be under the husband's control, but in other respects
to retain the ordinary legal position of women. Maluginensis, the son,
was chosen successor to his father. To raise the dignity of the priesthood
and to inspire the priests with more zeal in attending to the ceremonial,
a gift of two million sesterces was decreed to the Vestal Cornelia, chosen
in the room of Scantia; and, whenever Augusta entered the theatre, she
was to have a place in the seats of the Vestals. 
[4.17] In the consulship of Cornelius
Cethegus and Visellius Varro, the pontiffs, whose example was followed
by the other priests in offering prayers for the emperor's health, commended
also Nero and Drusus to the same deities, not so much out of love for the
young princes as out of sycophancy, the absence and excess of which in
a corrupt age are alike dangerous. Tiberius indeed, who was never friendly
to the house of Germanicus, was then vexed beyond endurance at their youth
being honoured equally with his declining years. He summoned the pontiffs,
and asked them whether it was to the entreaties or the threats of Agrippina
that they had made this concession. And though they gave a flat denial,
he rebuked them but gently, for many of them were her own relatives or
were leading men in the State. However he addressed a warning to the Senate
against encouraging pride in their young and excitable minds by premature
honours. For Sejanus spoke vehemently, and charged them with rending the
State almost by civil war. "There were those," he said, "who
called themselves the party of Agrippina, and, unless they were checked,
there would be more; the only remedy for the increasing discord was the
overthrow of one or two of the most enterprising leaders." 
[4.18] Accordingly he attacked Caius
Silius and Titius Sabinus. The friendship of Germanicus was fatal to both.
As for Silius, his having commanded a great army for seven years, and won
in Germany the distinctions of a triumph for his success in the war with
Sacrovir, would make his downfall all the more tremendous and so spread
greater terror among others. Many thought that he had provoked further
displeasure by his own presumption and his extravagant boasts that his
troops had been steadfastly loyal, while other armies were falling into
mutiny, and that Tiberius's throne could not have lasted had his legions
too been bent on revolution. All this the emperor regarded as undermining
his own power, which seemed to be unequal to the burden of such an obligation.
For benefits received are a delight to us as long as we think we can requite
them; when that possibility is far exceeded, they are repaid with hatred
instead of gratitude. 
[4.19] Silius had a wife, Sosia Galla,
whose love of Agrippina made her hateful to the emperor. The two, it was
decided, were to be attacked, but Sabinus was to be put off for a time.
Varro, the consul, was let loose on them, who, under colour of a hereditary
feud, humoured the malignity of Sejanus to his own disgrace. The accused
begged a brief respite, until the prosecutor's consulship expired, but
the emperor opposed the request. "It was usual," he argued, "for
magistrates to bring a private citizen to trial, and a consul's authority
ought not to be impaired, seeing that it rested with his vigilance to guard
the commonwealth from loss." It was characteristic of Tiberius to
veil new devices in wickedness under ancient names. And so, with a solemn
appeal, he summoned the Senate, as if there were any laws by which Silius
was being tried, as if Varro were a real consul, or Rome a commonwealth.
The accused either said nothing, or, if he attempted to defend himself,
hinted, not obscurely, at the person whose resentment was crushing him.
A long concealed complicity in Sacrovir's rebellion, a rapacity which sullied
his victory, and his wife Sosia's conduct, were alleged against him. Unquestionably,
they could not extricate themselves from the charge of extortion. The whole
affair however was conducted as a trial for treason, and Silius forestalled
impending doom by a self-inflicted death. 
[4.20] Yet there was a merciless confiscation
of his property, though not to refund their money to the provincials, none
of whom pressed any demand. But Augustus's bounty was wrested from him,
and the claims of the imperial exchequer were computed in detail. This
was the first instance on Tiberius's part of sharp dealing with the wealth
of others. Sosia was banished on the motion of Asinius Gallus, who had
proposed that half her estate should be confiscated, half left to the children.
Marcus Lepidus, on the contrary, was for giving a fourth to the prosecutors,
as the law required, and the remainder to the children. This Lepidus, I
am satisfied, was for that age a wise and high-principled man. Many a cruel
suggestion made by the flattery of others he changed for the better, and
yet he did not want tact, seeing that he always enjoyed an uniform prestige,
and also the favour of Tiberius. This compels me to doubt whether the liking
of princes for some men and their antipathy to others depend, like other
contingencies, on a fate and destiny to which we are born, or, to some
degree, on our own plans; so that it is possible to pursue a course between
a defiant independence and a debasing servility, free from ambition and
its perils. Messalinus Cotta, of equally illustrious ancestry as Lepidus,
but wholly different in disposition, proposed that the Senate should pass
a decree providing that even innocent governors who knew nothing of the
delinquencies of others should be punished for their wives' offences in
the provinces as much as for their own. 
[4.21] Proceedings were then taken
against Calpurnius Piso, a high-spirited nobleman. He it was, as I have
related, who had exclaimed more than once in the Senate that he would quit
Rome because of the combinations of the informers, and had dared in defiance
of Augusta's power, to sue Urgulania and summon her from the emperor's
palace. Tiberius submitted to this at the time not ungraciously, but the
remembrance of it was vividly impressed on a mind which brooded over its
resentments, even though the first impulse of his displeasure had subsided.
Quintus Granius accused Piso of secret treasonable conversation, and added
that he kept poison in his house and wore a dagger whenever he came into
the Senate. This was passed over as too atrocious to be true. He was to
be tried on the other charges, a multitude of which were heaped on him,
but his timely death cut short the trial. Next was taken the case of Cassius
Severus' an exile. A man of mean origin and a life of crime, but a powerful
pleader, he had brought on himself, by his persistent quarrelsomeness,
a decision of the Senate, under oath, which banished him to Crete. There
by the same practices he drew on himself, fresh odium and revived the old;
stripped of his property and outlawed, he wore out his old age on the rock
of Seriphos. 
[4.22] About the same time Plautius
Silvanus, the praetor, for unknown reasons, threw his wife Apronia out
of a window. When summoned before the emperor by Lucius Apronius, his father-in-law,
he replied incoherently, representing that he was in a sound sleep and
consequently knew nothing, and that his wife had chosen to destroy herself.
Without a moment's delay Tiberius went to the house and inspected the chamber,
where were seen the marks of her struggling and of her forcible ejection.
He reported this to the Senate, and as soon as judges had been appointed,
Urgulania, the grandmother of Silvanus, sent her grandson a dagger. This
was thought equivalent to a hint from the emperor, because of the known
intimacy between Augusta and Urgulania. The accused tried the steel in
vain, and then allowed his veins to be opened. Shortly afterwards Numantina,
his former wife, was charged with having caused her husband's insanity
by magical incantations and potions, but she was acquitted. 
[4.23] This year at last released
Rome from her long contest with the Numidian Tacfarinas. Former generals,
when they thought that their successes were enough to insure them triumphal
distinctions, left the enemy to himself. There were now in Rome three laurelled
statues, and yet Tacfarinas was still ravaging Africa, strengthened by
reinforcements from the Moors, who, under the boyish and careless rule
of Ptolemaeus, Juba's son, had chosen war in preference to the despotism
of freedmen and slaves. He had the king of the Garamantes to receive his
plunder and to be the partner of his raids, not indeed with a regular army,
but with detachments of light troops whose strength, as they came from
a distance, rumour exaggerated. From the province itself every needy and
restless adventurer hurried to join him, for the emperor, as if not an
enemy remained in Africa after the achievements of Blaesus, had ordered
the ninth legion home, and Publius Dolabella, proconsul that year, had
not dared to retain it, because he feared the sovereign's orders more than
the risks of war. 
[4.24] Tacfarinas accordingly spread
rumours; that elsewhere also nations were rending the empire of Rome and
that therefore her soldiers were gradually retiring from Africa, and that
the rest might be cut off by a strong effort on the part of all who loved
freedom more than slavery. He thus augmented his force, and having formed
a camp, he besieged the town of Thubuscum. Dolabella meanwhile collecting
all the troops on the spot, raised the siege at his first approach, by
the terror of the Roman name and because the Numidians cannot stand against
the charge of infantry. He then fortified suitable positions, and at the
same time beheaded some chiefs of the Musulamii, who were on the verge
of rebellion. Next, as several expeditions against Tacfarinas had proved
the uselessness of following up the enemy's desultory movements with the
attack of heavy troops from a single point, he summoned to his aid king
Ptolemaeus and his people, and equipped four columns, under the command
of his lieutenants and tribunes. Marauding parties were also led by picked
Moors, Dolabella in person directing every operation. 
[4.25] Soon afterwards news came that
the Numidians had fixed their tents and encamped near a half-demolished
fortress, by name Auzea, to which they had themselves formerly set fire,
and on the position of which they relied, as it was inclosed by vast forests.
Immediately the light infantry and cavalry, without knowing whither they
were being led, were hurried along at quick march. Day dawned, and with
the sound of trumpets and fierce shouts, they were on the half-asleep barbarians,
whose horses were tethered or roaming over distant pastures. On the Roman
side, the infantry was in close array, the cavalry in its squadrons, everything
prepared for an engagement, while the enemy, utterly surprised, without
arms, order, or plan, were seized, slaughtered, or captured like cattle.
The infuriated soldiers, remembering their hardships and how often the
longed-for conflict had been eluded, sated themselves to a man with vengeance
and bloodshed. The word went through the companies that all were to aim
at securing Tacfarinas, whom, after so many battles, they knew well, as
there would be no rest from war except by the destruction of the enemy's
leader. Tacfarinas, his guards slain round him, his son a prisoner, and
the Romans bursting on him from every side, rushed on the darts, and by
a death which was not unavenged, escaped captivity. 
[4.26] This ended the war. Dolabella
asked for triumphal distinctions, but was refused by Tiberius, out of compliment
to Sejanus, the glory of whose uncle Blaesus he did not wish to be forgotten.
But this did not make Blaesus more famous, while the refusal of the honour
heightened Dolabella's renown. He had, in fact, with a smaller army, brought
back with him illustrious prisoners and the fame of having slain the enemy's
leader and terminated the war. In his train were envoys from the Garamantes,
a rare spectacle in Rome. The nation, in its terror at the destruction
of Tacfarinas, and innocent of any guilty intention, had sent them to crave
pardon of the Roman people. And now that this war had proved the zealous
loyalty of Ptolemaeus, a custom of antiquity was revived, and one of the
Senators was sent to present him with an ivory sceptre and an embroidered
robe, gifts anciently bestowed by the Senate, and to confer on him the
titles of king, ally, and friend. 
[4.27] The same summer, the germs
of a slave war in Italy were crushed by a fortunate accident. The originator
of the movement was Titus Curtisius, once a soldier of the praetorian guard.
First, by secret meetings at Brundisium and the neighbouring towns, then
by placards publicly exhibited, he incited the rural and savage slave-population
of the remote forests to assert their freedom. By divine providence, three
vessels came to land for the use of those who traversed that sea. In the
same part of the country too was Curtius Lupus, the quaestor, who, according
to ancient precedent, had had the charge of the "woodland pastures"
assigned to him. Putting in motion a force of marines, he broke up the
seditious combination in its very first beginnings. The emperor at once
sent Staius, a tribune, with a strong detachment, by whom the ringleader
himself, with his most daring followers, were brought prisoners to Rome
where men already trembled at the vast scale of the slave-establishments,
in which there was an immense growth, while the freeborn populace daily
decreased. 
[4.28] That same consulship witnessed
a horrible instance of misery and brutality. A father as defendant, a son
as prosecutor, (Vibius Serenus was the name of both) were brought before
the Senate; the father, dragged from exile in filth and squalor now stood
in irons, while the son pleaded for his guilt. With studious elegance of
dress and cheerful looks, the youth, at once accuser and witness, alleged
a plot against the emperor and that men had been sent to Gaul to excite
rebellion, further adding that Caecilius Cornutus, an ex-praetor, had furnished
money. Cornutus, weary of anxiety and feeling that peril was equivalent
to ruin, hastened to destroy himself. But the accused with fearless spirit,
looked his son in the face, shook his chains, and appealed to the vengeance
of the gods, with a prayer that they would restore him to his exile, where
he might live far away from such practices, and that, as for his son, punishment
might sooner or later overtake him. He protested too that Cornutus was
innocent and that his terror was groundless, as would easily be perceived,
if other names were given up; for he never would have plotted the emperor's
murder and a revolution with only one confederate. 
[4.29] Upon this the prosecutor named
Cneius Lentulus and Seius Tubero, to the great confusion of the emperor,
at finding a hostile rebellion and disturbance of the public peace charged
on two leading men in the state, his own intimate friends, the first of
whom was in extreme old age and the second in very feeble health. They
were, however, at once acquitted. As for the father, his slaves were examined
by torture, and the result was unfavourable to the accuser. The man, maddened
by remorse, and terror-stricken by the popular voice, which menaced him
with the dungeon, the rock, or a parricide's doom, fled from Rome. He was
dragged back from Ravenna, and forced to go through the prosecution, during
which Tiberius did not disguise the old grudge he bore the exile Serenus.
For after Libo's conviction, Serenus had sent the emperor a letter, upbraiding
him for not having rewarded his special zeal in that trial, with further
hints more insolent than could be safely trusted to the easily offended
ears of a despot. All this Tiberius revived eight years later, charging
on him various misconduct during that interval, even though the examination
by torture, owing to the obstinacy of the slaves, had contradicted his
guilt. 
[4.30] The Senate then gave their
votes that Serenus should be punished according to ancient precedent, when
the emperor, to soften the odium of the affair, interposed with his veto.
Next, Gallus Asinius proposed that he should be confined in Gyaros or Donusa,
but this he rejected, on the ground that both these islands were deficient
in water, and that he whose life was spared, ought to be allowed the necessaries
of life. And so Serenus was conveyed back to Amorgus. In consequence of
the suicide of Cornutus, it was proposed to deprive informers of their
rewards whenever a person accused of treason put an end to his life by
his own act before the completion of the trial. The motion was on the point
of being carried when the emperor, with a harshness contrary to his manner,
spoke openly for the informers, complaining that the laws would be ineffective,
and the State brought to the verge of ruin. "Better," he said,
"to subvert the constitution than to remove its guardians." Thus
the informers, a class invented to destroy the commonwealth, and never
enough controlled even by legal penalties, were stimulated by rewards.

[4.31] Some little joy broke this
long succession of horrors. Caius Cominius, a Roman knight, was spared
by the emperor, against whom he was convicted of having written libellous
verses, at the intercession of his brother, who was a Senator. Hence it
seemed the more amazing that one who knew better things and the glory which
waits on mercy, should prefer harsher courses. He did not indeed err from
dulness, and it is easy to see when the acts of a sovereign meet with genuine,
and when with fictitious popularity. And even he himself, though usually
artificial in manner, and though his words escaped him with a seeming struggle,
spoke out freely and fluently whenever he came to a man's rescue. In another
case, that of Publius Suillius, formerly quaestor to Germanicus, who was
to be expelled from Italy on a conviction of having received money for
a judicial decision, he held that the man ought to be banished to an island,
and so intensely strong was his feeling that he bound the Senate by an
oath that this was a State necessity. The act was thought cruel at the
moment, but subsequently it redounded to his honour when Suillius returned
from exile. The next age saw him in tremendous power and a venal creature
of the emperor Claudius, whose friendship he long used, with success, never
for good. The same punishment was adjudged to Catus Firmius, a Senator,
for having (it was alleged) assailed his sister with a false charge of
treason. Catus, as I have related, had drawn Libo into a snare and then
destroyed him by an information. Tiberius remembering this service, while
he alleged other reasons, deprecated a sentence of exile, but did not oppose
his expulsion from the Senate. 
[4.32] Much what I have related and
shall have to relate, may perhaps, I am aware, seem petty trifles to record.
But no one must compare my annals with the writings of those who have described
Rome in old days. They told of great wars, of the storming of cities, of
the defeat and capture of kings, or whenever they turned by preference
to home affairs, they related, with a free scope for digression, the strifes
of consuls with tribunes, land and corn-laws, and the struggles between
the commons and the aristocracy. My labours are circumscribed and inglorious;
peace wholly unbroken or but slightly disturbed, dismal misery in the capital,
an emperor careless about the enlargement of the empire, such is my theme.
Still it will not be useless to study those at first sight trifling events
out of which the movements of vast changes often take their rise. 
[4.33] All nations and cities are
ruled by the people, the nobility, or by one man. A constitution, formed
by selection out of these elements, it is easy to commend but not to produce;
or, if it is produced, it cannot be lasting. Formerly, when the people
had power or when the patricians were in the ascendant, the popular temper
and the methods of controlling it, had to be studied, and those who knew
most accurately the spirit of the Senate and aristocracy, had the credit
of understanding the age and of being wise men. So now, after a revolution,
when Rome is nothing but the realm of a single despot, there must be good
in carefully noting and recording this period, for it is but few who have
the foresight to distinguish right from wrong or what is sound from what
is hurtful, while most men learn wisdom from the fortunes of others. Still,
though this is instructive, it gives very little pleasure. Descriptions
of countries, the various incidents of battles, glorious deaths of great
generals, enchain and refresh a reader's mind. I have to present in succession
the merciless biddings of a tyrant, incessant prosecutions, faithless friendships,
the ruin of innocence, the same causes issuing in the same results, and
I am everywhere confronted by a wearisome monotony in my subject matter.
Then, again, an ancient historian has but few disparagers, and no one cares
whether you praise more heartily the armies of Carthage or Rome. But of
many who endured punishment or disgrace under Tiberius, the descendants
yet survive; or even though the families themselves may be now extinct,
you will find those who, from a resemblance of character, imagine that
the evil deeds of others are a reproach to themselves. Again, even honour
and virtue make enemies, condemning, as they do, their opposites by too
close a contrast. But I return to my work. 
[4.34] In the year of the consulship
of Cornelius Cossus and Asinius Agrippa, Cremutius Cordus was arraigned
on a new charge, now for the first time heard. He had published a history
in which he had praised Marcus Brutus and called Caius Cassius the last
of the Romans. His accusers were Satrius Secundus and Pinarius Natta, creatures
of Sejanus. This was enough to ruin the accused; and then too the emperor
listened with an angry frown to his defence, which Cremutius, resolved
to give up his life, began thus: - "It is my words, Senators, which
are condemned, so innocent am I of any guilty act; yet these do not touch
the emperor or the emperor's mother, who are alone comprehended under the
law of treason. I am said to have praised Brutus and Cassius, whose careers
many have described and no one mentioned without eulogy. Titus Livius,
pre-eminently famous for eloquence and truthfulness, extolled Cneius Pompeius
in such a panegyric that Augustus called him Pompeianus, and yet this was
no obstacle to their friendship. Scipio, Afranius, this very Cassius, this
same Brutus, he nowhere describes as brigands and traitors, terms now applied
to them, but repeatedly as illustrious men. Asinius Pollio's writings too
hand down a glorious memory of them, and Messala Corvinus used to speak
with pride of Cassius as his general. Yet both these men prospered to the
end with wealth and preferment. Again, that book of Marcus Cicero, in which
he lauded Cato to the skies, how else was it answered by Caesar the dictator,
than by a written oration in reply, as if he was pleading in court? The
letters Antonius, the harangues of Brutus contain reproaches against Augustus,
false indeed, but urged with powerful sarcasm; the poems which we read
of Bibaculus and Catullus are crammed with invectives on the Caesars. Yet
the Divine Julius, the Divine Augustus themselves bore all this and let
it pass, whether in forbearance or in wisdom I cannot easily say. Assuredly
what is despised is soon forgotten; when you resent a thing, you seem to
recognise it." 
[4.35] "Of the Greeks I say nothing;
with them not only liberty, but even license went unpunished, or if a person
aimed at chastising, he retaliated on satire by satire. It has, however,
always been perfectly open to us without any one to censure, to speak freely
of those whom death has withdrawn alike from the partialities of hatred
or esteem. Are Cassius and Brutus now in arms on the fields of Philippi,
and am I with them rousing the people by harangues to stir up civil war?
Did they not fall more than seventy years ago, and as they are known to
us by statues which even the conqueror did not destroy, so too is not some
portion of their memory preserved for us by historians? To every man posterity
gives his due honour, and, if a fatal sentence hangs over me, there will
be those who will remember me as well as Cassius and Brutus." He then
left the Senate and ended his life by starvation. His books, so the Senators
decreed, were to be burnt by the aediles; but some copies were left which
were concealed and afterwards published. And so one is all the more inclined
to laugh at the stupidity of men who suppose that the despotism of the
present can actually efface the remembrances of the next generation. On
the contrary, the persecution of genius fosters its influence; foreign
tyrants, and all who have imitated their oppression, have merely procured
infamy for themselves and glory for their victims. 
[4.36] That year was such a continuous
succession of prosecutions that on the days of the Latin festival when
Drusus, as city-prefect, had ascended his tribunal for the inauguration
of his office, Calpurnius Salvianus appeared before him against Sextus
Marius. This the emperor openly censured, and it caused the banishment
of Salvianus. Next, the people of Cyzicus were accused of publicly neglecting
the established worship of the Divine Augustus, and also of acts of violence
to Roman citizens. They were deprived of the franchise which they had earned
during the war with Mithridates, when their city was besieged, and when
they repulsed the king as much by their own bravery as by the aid of Lucullus.
Then followed the acquittal of Fonteius Capito, the late proconsul of Asia,
on proof that charges brought against him by Vibius Serenus were fictitious.
Still this did not injure Serenus, to whom public hatred was actually a
protection. Indeed any conspicuously restless informer was, so to say,
inviolable; only the insignificant and undistinguished were punished. 
[4.37] About the same time Further
Spain sent a deputation to the Senate, with a request to be allowed, after
the example of Asia, to erect a temple to Tiberius and his mother. On this
occasion, the emperor, who had generally a strong contempt for honours,
and now thought it right to reply to the rumour which reproached him with
having yielded to vanity, delivered the following speech:- "I am aware,
Senators, that many deplore my want of firmness in not having opposed a
similar recent petition from the cities of Asia. I will therefore both
explain the grounds of my previous silence and my intentions for the future.
Inasmuch as the Divine Augustus did not forbid the founding of a temple
at Pergamos to himself and to the city of Rome, I who respect as law all
his actions and sayings, have the more readily followed a precedent once
approved, seeing that with the worship of myself was linked an expression
of reverence towards the Senate. But though it may be pardonable to have
allowed this once, it would be a vain and arrogant thing to receive the
sacred honour of images representing the divine throughout all the provinces,
and the homage paid to Augustus will disappear if it is vulgarised by indiscriminate
flattery. 
[4.38] "For myself, Senators,
I am mortal and limited to the functions of humanity, content if I can
adequately fill the highest place; of this I solemnly assure you, and would
have posterity remember it. They will more than sufficiently honour my
memory by believing me to have been worthy of my ancestry, watchful over
your interests, courageous in danger, fearless of enmity, when the State
required it. These sentiments of your hearts are my temples, these my most
glorious and abiding monuments. Those built of stone are despised as mere
tombs, if the judgment of posterity passes into hatred. And therefore this
is my prayer to our allies, our citizens, and to heaven itself; to the
last, that, to my life's close, it grant me a tranquil mind, which can
discern alike human and divine claims; to the first, that, when I die,
they honour my career and the reputation of my name with praise and kindly
remembrance." Henceforth Tiberius even in private conversations persisted
in showing contempt for such homage to himself. Some attributed this to
modesty; many to self-distrust; a few to a mean spirit. "The noblest
men," it was said, "have the loftiest aspirations, and so Hercules
and Bacchus among the Greeks and Quirinus among us were enrolled in the
number of the gods. Augustus, did better, seeing that he had aspired. All
other things princes have as a matter of course; one thing they ought insatiably
to pursue, that their memory may be glorious. For to despise fame is to
despise merit." 
[4.39] Sejanus meanwhile, dazed by
his extravagant prosperity and urged on too by a woman's passion, Livia
now insisting on his promise of marriage, addressed a memorial to the emperor.
For it was then the custom to apply to him by writing, even though he was
at Rome. This petition was to the following effect: - The kindness of Augustus,
the father, and then the many favourable testimonies of Tiberius, the son,
had engendered the habit of confiding his hopes and wishes to the ears
of emperors as readily as to those of the gods. The splendour of high distinctions
he had never craved; he had rather chosen watchings and hardships, like
one of the common soldiers, for the emperor's safety. But there was one
most glorious honour he had won, the reputation of being worthy of an alliance
with a Caesar. This was the first motive of his ambition. As he had heard
that Augustus, in marrying his daughter, had even entertained some thoughts
of Roman knights, so if a husband were sought for Livia, he hoped Tiberius
would bear in mind a friend who would find his reward simply in the glory
of the alliance. He did not wish to rid himself of the duties imposed on
him; he thought it enough for his family to be secured against the unjust
displeasure of Agrippina, and this for the sake of his children. For, as
for himself, enough and more than enough for him would be a life completed
while such a sovereign still reigned. 
[4.40] Tiberius, in reply, after praising
the loyal sentiments of Sejanus and briefly enumerating the favours he
had bestowed on him, asked time for impartial consideration, adding that
while other men's plans depended on their ideas of their own interest,
princes, who had to regulate their chief actions by public opinion, were
in a different position. "Hence," he said, "I do not take
refuge in an answer which it would be easy to return, that Livia can herself
decide whether she considers that, after Drusus, she ought again to marry
or rather to endure life in the same home, and that she has in her mother
and grandmother counsellors nearer and dearer to her. I will deal more
frankly. First, as to the enmity of Agrippina, I maintain that it will
blaze out more fiercely if Livia's marriage rends, so to say, the house
of the Caesars into two factions. Even as it is, feminine jealousies break
out, and my grandsons are torn asunder by the strife. What will happen
if the rivalry is rendered more intense by such a marriage? For you are
mistaken, Sejanus, if you think that you will then remain in the same position,
and that Livia, who has been the wife of Caius Caesar and afterwards of
Drusus, will have the inclination to pass her old age with a mere Roman
knight. Though I might allow it, do you imagine it would be tolerated by
those who have seen her brother, her father, and our ancestors in the highest
offices of state? You indeed desire to keep within your station; but those
magistrates and nobles who intrude on you against your wishes and consult
you on all matters, openly give out that you have long overstepped the
rank of a knight and gone far beyond my father's friendships, and from
their dislike of you they also condemn me. But, you say, Augustus had thoughts
of giving his daughter to a Roman knight. Is it surprising that, with so
many distracting cares, foreseeing too the immense elevation to which a
man would be raised above others by such an alliance, he talked of Caius
Proculeius and certain persons of singularly quiet life, wholly free from
political entanglements? Still, if the hesitation of Augustus is to influence
us, how much stronger is the fact that he bestowed his daughter on Marcus
Agrippa, then on myself. All this, as a friend, I have stated without reserve,
but I will not oppose your plans or those of Livia. My own earnest thoughts
and the ties with which I am still purposing to unite you to myself, I
shall for the present forbear to explain. This only I will declare, that
nothing is too grand to be deserved by your merits and your goodwill towards
me. When an opportunity presents itself, either in the Senate, or in a
popular assembly, I shall not be silent." 
[4.41] Sejanus, no longer thinking
of his marriage but filled with a deeper alarm, rejoined by deprecating
the whispers of suspicion, popular rumour and the gathering storm of odium.
That he might not impair his influence by closing his doors on the throngs
of his many visitors or strengthen the hands of accusers by admitting them,
he made it his aim to induce Tiberius to live in some charming spot at
a distance from Rome. In this he foresaw several advantages. Access to
the emperor would be under his own control, and letters, for the most part
being conveyed by soldiers, would pass through his hands. Caesar too, who
was already in the decline of life, would soon, when enervated by retirement,
more readily transfer to him the functions of empire; envy towards himself
would be lessened when there was an end to his crowded levies and the reality
of power would be increased by the removal of its empty show. So he began
to declaim against the laborious life of the capital, the bustling crowds
and streaming multitudes, while he praised repose and solitude, with their
freedom from vexations and misunderstandings, and their special opportunities
for the study of the highest questions. 
[4.42] It happened that the trial
at this time of Votienus Montanus, a popular wit, convinced the hesitating
Tiberius that he ought to shun all assemblies of the Senate, where speeches,
often true and offensive, were flung in his very face. Votienus was charged
with insulting expressions towards the emperor, and while the witness,
Aemilius, a military man, in his eagerness to prove the case, repeated
the whole story and amid angry clamour struggled on with loud assertion,
Tiberius heard the reproaches by which he was assailed in secret, and was
so deeply impressed that he exclaimed that he would clear himself either
at once or on a legal inquiry, and the entreaties of friends, with the
flattery of the whole assembly, hardly restored his composure. As for Votienus,
he suffered the penalty of treason; but the emperor, clinging all the more
obstinately to the harshness with which he had been reproached in regard
to accused persons, punished Aquilia with exile for the crime of adultery
with Varius Ligur, although Lentulus Gaetulicus, the consul-elect, had
proposed that she should be sentenced under the Julian law. He next struck
off Apidius Merula from the register of the Senate for not having sworn
obedience to the legislation of the Divine Augustus. 
[4.43] Then a hearing was given to
embassies from the Lacedaemonians and Messenians on the question of the
temple of Diana in the Marshes. The Lacedaemonians asserted that it had
been dedicated by their ancestors and in their territory, and appealed
to the records of their history and the hymns of poets, but it had been
wrested from, they said, by the arms of the Macedonian Philip, with whom
they had fought, and subsequently restored by the decision of Caius Caesar
and Marcus Antonius. The Messenians, on the contrary, alleged the ancient
division of the Peloponnesus among the descendants of Hercules, in which
the territory of Denthelia (where the temple stood) had fallen to their
king. Records of this event still existed, engraven on stone and ancient
bronze. But if they were asked for the testimony of poetry and of history,
they had it, they said, in greater abundance and authenticity. Philip had
not decided arbitrarily, but according to fact, and king Antigonus, as
also the general Mummius, had pronounced the same judgment. Such too had
been the award of the Milesians to whom the arbitration had been publicly
entrusted, and, finally, of Atidius Geminus, the praetor of Achaia. And
so the question was decided in favour of the Messenians. Next the people
of Segesta petitioned for the restoration of the temple of Venus at Mount
Eryx, which had fallen to ruin from its antiquity. They repeated the well-known
story of its origin, which delighted Tiberius. He undertook the work willingly,
as being a kinsman of the goddess. After this was discussed a petition
from the city of Massilia, and sanction given to the precedent of Publius
Rutilius, who having been legally banished from Rome, had been adopted
as a citizen by the people of Smyrna. Volcatius Moschus, also an exile,
had been received with a similar privilege by the inhabitants of Massilia,
and had left his property to their community, as being now his own country.

[4.44] Two men of noble rank died
in that year, Cneius Lentulus and Lucius Domitius. It had been the glory
of Lentulus, to say nothing of his consulship and his triumphal distinctions
over the Gaetuli, to have borne poverty with a good grace, then to have
attained great wealth, which had been blamelessly acquired and was modestly
enjoyed. Domitius derived lustre from a father who during the civil war
had been master of the sea, till he united himself to the party of Antonius
and afterwards to that of Caesar. His grandfather had fallen in the battle
of Pharsalia, fighting for the aristocracy. He had himself been chosen
to be the husband of the younger Antonia, daughter of Octavia, and subsequently
led an army across the Elbe, penetrating further into Germany than any
Roman before him. For this achievement he gained triumphal honours. Lucius
Antonius too then died, of a most illustrious but unfortunate family. His
father, Julius Antonius, was capitally punished for adultery with Julia,
and the son, when a mere youth, was banished by Augustus, whose sister's
grandson he was, to the city of Massilia, where the name of exile might
be masked under that of student. Yet honour was paid him in death, and
his bones, by the Senate's decree, were consigned to the sepulchre of the
Octavii. 
[4.45] While the same consuls were
in office, an atrocious crime was committed in Nearer Spain by a peasant
of the Termestine tribe. Suddenly attacking the praetor of the province,
Lucius Piso, as he was travelling in all the carelessness of peace, he
killed him with a single wound. He then fled on a swift horse, and reached
a wooded country, where he parted with his steed and eluded pursuit amid
rocky and pathless wilds. But he was soon discovered. The horse was caught
and led through the neighbouring villages, and its owner ascertained. Being
found and put to the torture that he might be forced to reveal his accomplices,
he exclaimed in a loud voice, in the language of his country, that it was
in vain to question him; his comrades might stand by and look on, but that
the most intense agony would not wring the truth from him. Next day, when
he was dragged back to torture, he broke loose from his guards and dashed
his head against a stone with such violence that he instantly fell dead.
It was however believed that Piso was treacherously murdered by the Termestini.
Some public money had been embezzled, and he was pressing for its payment
too rigorously for the patience of barbarians. 
[4.46] In the consulship of Lentulus
Gaetulicus and Caius Calvisius, triumphal distinctions were decreed to
Poppaeus Sabinus, for a crushing defeat of some Thracian tribes, whose
wild life in the highlands of a mountainous country made them unusually
fierce. Besides their natural ferocity, the rebellion had its origin in
their scornful refusal to endure levies and to supply our armies with their
bravest men. Even native princes they would obey only according to their
caprice, and if they sent aid, they used to appoint their own leaders and
fight only against their neighbours. A rumour had then spread itself among
them that, dispersed and mingled with other tribes, they were to be dragged
away to distant countries. Before however they took up arms, they sent
envoys with assurances of their friendship and loyalty, which, they said,
would continue, if they were not tried by any fresh burden. But if they
were doomed to slavery as a conquered people, they had swords and young
warriors and a spirit bent on freedom or resigned to death. As they spoke,
they pointed to fortresses amid rocks whither they had conveyed their parents
and their wives, and threatened us with a difficult, dangerous and sanguinary
war. 
[4.47] Sabinus meantime, while he
was concentrating his troops, returned gentle answers; but on the arrival
of Pomponius Labeo with a legion from Moesia and of king Rhoemetalces with
some reinforcements from his subjects, who had not thrown off their allegiance,
with these and the force he had on the spot, he advanced on the enemy,
who were drawn up in some wooded defiles. Some ventured to show themselves
on the open hills; these the Roman general approached in fighting order
and easily dislodged them, with only a small slaughter of the barbarians,
who had not far to flee. In this position he soon established a camp, and
held with a strong detachment a narrow and unbroken mountain ridge, stretching
as far as the next fortress, which was garrisoned by a large force of armed
soldiers along with some irregulars. Against the boldest of these, who
after the manner of their country were disporting themselves with songs
and dances in front of the rampart, he sent some picked archers, who, discharging
distant volleys, inflicted many wounds without loss to themselves. As they
advanced, a sudden sortie put them to the rout, and they fell back on the
support of a Sugambrian cohort, drawn up at no great distance by the Roman
general, ready for any emergency and as terrible as the foe, with the noise
of their war songs and the clashing of their arms. 
[4.48] He then moved his camp near
to the enemy, leaving in his former entrenchments the Thracians who, as
I have mentioned, were with us. These had permission to ravage, burn, and
plunder, provided they confined their forays to daylight, and passed the
night securely and vigilantly in their camp. This at first they strictly
observed. Soon they resigned themselves to enjoyment, and, enriched by
plunder, they neglected their guards, and amid feasts and mirth sank down
in the carelessness of the banquet, of sleep and of wine. So the enemy,
apprised of their heedlessness, prepared two detachments, one of which
was to attack the plunderers, the other, to fall on the Roman camp, not
with the hope of taking it, but to hinder the din of the other battle from
being heard by our soldiers, who, with shouts and missiles around them,
would be all intent on their own peril. Night too was chosen for the movement
to increase the panic. Those however who tried to storm the entrenchment
of the legions were easily repulsed; the Thracian auxiliaries were dismayed
by the suddenness of the onset, for though some were lying close to their
lines, far more were straggling beyond them, and the massacre was all the
more savage, inasmuch as they were taunted with being fugitives and traitors
and bearing arms for their own and their country's enslavement. 
[4.49] Next day Sabinus displayed
his forces in the plain, on the chance of the barbarians being encouraged
by the night's success to risk an engagement. Finding that they did not
quit the fortress and the adjoining hills, he began a siege by means of
the works which he had opportunely began to construct; then he drew a fosse
and stockade enclosing an extent of four miles, and by degrees contracted
and narrowed his lines, with the view of cutting off their water and forage.
He also threw up a rampart, from which to discharge stones, darts, and
brands on the enemy, who was now within range. It was thirst however which
chiefly distressed them, for there was only one spring for the use of a
vast multitude of soldiers and non-combatants. Their cattle too, penned
up close to them, after the fashion of barbarians, were dying of want of
fodder; near them lay human bodies which had perished from wounds or thirst,
and the whole place was befouled with rotting carcases and stench and infection.
To their confusion was added the growing misery of discord, some thinking
of surrender, others of destruction by mutual blows. Some there were who
suggested a sortie instead of an unavenged death, and these were all men
of spirit, though they differed in their plans. 
[4.50] One of their chiefs, Dinis,
an old man who well knew by long experience both the strength and clemency
of Rome, maintained that they must lay down their arms, this being the
only remedy for their wretched plight, and he was the first to give himself
up with his wife and children to the conqueror. He was followed by all
whom age or sex unfitted for war, by all too who had a stronger love of
life than of renown. The young were divided between Tarsa and Turesis,
both of whom had resolved to fall together with their freedom. Tarsa however
kept urging them to speedy death and to the instant breaking off of all
hope and fear, and, by way of example, plunged his sword into his heart.
And there were some who chose the same death. Turesis and his band waited
for night, not without the knowledge of our general. Consequently, the
sentries were strengthened with denser masses of troops. Night was coming
on with a fierce storm, and the foe, one moment with a tumultuous uproar,
another in awful silence, had perplexed the besiegers, when Sabinus went
round the camp, entreating the men not to give a chance to their stealthy
assailants by heeding embarrassing noises or being deceived by quiet, but
to keep, every one, to his post without moving or discharging their darts
on false alarms. 
[4.51] The barbarians meanwhile rushed
down with their bands, now hurling at the entrenchments stones such as
the hand could grasp, stakes with points hardened by fire, and boughs lopped
from oaks; now filling up the fosses with bushes and hurdles and dead bodies,
while others advanced up to the breastwork with bridges and ladders which
they had constructed for the occasion, seized it, tore it down, and came
to close quarters with the defenders. Our soldiers on the other side drove
them back with missiles, repelled them with their shields, and covered
them with a storm of long siege-javelins and heaps of stones. Success already
gained and the more marked disgrace which would follow repulse, were a
stimulus to the Romans, while the courage of the foe was heightened by
this last chance of deliverance and the presence of many mothers and wives
with mournful cries. Darkness, which increased the daring of some and the
terror of others, random blows, wounds not foreseen, failure to recognise
friend or enemy, echoes, seemingly in their rear, from the winding mountain
valleys, spread such confusion that the Romans abandoned some of their
lines in the belief that they had been stormed. Only however a very few
of the enemy had broken through them; the rest, after their bravest men
had been beaten back or wounded, were towards daybreak pushed back to the
upper part of the fortress and there at last compelled to surrender. Then
the immediate neighbourhood, by the voluntary action of the inhabitants,
submitted. The early and severe winter of Mount Haemus saved the rest of
the population from being reduced by assault or blockade. 
[4.52] At Rome meanwhile, besides
the shocks already sustained by the imperial house, came the first step
towards the destruction of Agrippina, Claudia Pulchra, her cousin, being
prosecuted by Domitius Afer. Lately a praetor, a man of but moderate position
and eager to become notorious by any sort of deed, Afer charged her with
unchastity, with having Furnius for her paramour, and with attempts on
the emperor by poison and sorcery. Agrippina, always impetuous, and now
kindled into fury by the peril of her kinswoman, went straight to Tiberius
and found him, as it happened, offering a sacrifice to his father. This
provoked an indignant outburst. "It is not," she exclaimed, "for
the same man to slay victims to the Divine Augustus and to persecute his
posterity. The celestial spirit has not transferred itself to the mute
statue; here is the true image, sprung of heavenly blood, and she perceives
her danger, and assumes its mournful emblems. Pulchra's name is a mere
blind; the only reason for her destruction is that she has, in utter folly,
selected Agrippina for her admiration, forgetting that Sosia was thereby
ruined." These words wrung from the emperor one of the rare utterances
of that inscrutable breast; he rebuked Agrippina with a Greek verse, and
reminded her that "she was not wronged because she was not a queen."
Pulchra and Furnius were condemned. Afer was ranked with the foremost orators,
for the ability which he displayed, and which won strong praise from Tiberius,
who pronounced him a speaker of natural genius. Henceforward as a counsel
for the defence or the prosecution he enjoyed the fame of eloquence rather
than of virtue, but old age robbed him of much of his speaking power, while,
with a failing intellect, he was still impatient of silence. 
[4.53] Agrippina in stubborn rage,
with the grasp of disease yet on her, when the emperor came to see her,
wept long and silently, and then began to mingle reproach and supplication.
She begged him "to relieve her loneliness and provide her with a husband;
her youth still fitted her for marriage, which was a virtuous woman's only
solace, and there were citizens in Rome who would not disdain to receive
the wife of Germanicus and his children." But the emperor, who perceived
the political aims of her request, but did not wish to show displeasure
or apprehension, left her, notwithstanding her urgency, without an answer.
This incident, not mentioned by any historian, I have found in the memoirs
of the younger Agrippina, the mother of the emperor Nero, who handed down
to posterity the story of her life and of the misfortunes of her family.

[4.54] Sejanus meanwhile yet more
deeply alarmed the sorrowing and unsuspecting woman by sending his agents,
under the guise of friendship, with warnings that poison was prepared for
her, and that she ought to avoid her father-in-law's table. Knowing not
how to dissemble, she relaxed neither her features nor tone of voice as
she sat by him at dinner, nor did she touch a single dish, till at last
Tiberius noticed her conduct, either casually or because he was told of
it. To test her more closely, he praised some fruit as it was set on the
table and passed it with his own hand to his daughter-in-law. This increased
the suspicions of Agrippina, and without putting the fruit to her lips
she gave it to the slaves. Still no remark fell from Tiberius before the
company, but he turned to his mother and whispered that it was not surprising
if he had decided on harsh treatment against one who implied that he was
a poisoner. Then there was a rumour that a plan was laid for her destruction,
that the emperor did not dare to attempt it openly, and was seeking to
veil the deed in secrecy. 
[4.55] Tiberius, to divert people's
talk, continually attended the Senate, and gave an audience of several
days to embassies from Asia on a disputed question as to the city in which
the temple before mentioned should be erected. Eleven cities were rivals
for the honour, of which they were all equally ambitious, though they differed
widely in resources. With little variation they dwelt on antiquity of race
and loyalty to Rome throughout her wars with Perseus, Aristonicus, and
other kings. But the people of Hypaepa, Tralles, Laodicaea, and Magnesia
were passed over as too insignificant; even Ilium, though it boasted that
Troy was the cradle of Rome, was strong only in the glory of its antiquity.
There was a little hesitation about Halicarnassus, as its inhabitants affirmed
that for twelve hundred years their homes had not been shaken by an earthquake
and that the foundations of their temple were on the living rock. Pergamos,
it was thought, had been sufficiently honoured by having a temple of Augustus
in the city, on which very fact they relied. The Ephesians and Milesians
had, it seemed, wholly devoted their respective towns to the worships of
Apollo and Diana. And so the question lay between Sardis and Smyrna. The
envoys from Sardis read a decree of the Etrurians, with whom they claimed
kindred. "Tyrrhenus and Lydus," it was said, "the sons of
King Atys, divided the nation between them because of its multitude; Lydus
remained in the country of his fathers; Tyrrhenus had the work assigned
him of establishing new settlements, and names, taken from the two leaders,
were given to the one people in Asia and to the other in Italy. The resources
of the Lydians were yet further augmented by the immigration of nations
into that part of Greece which afterwards took its name from Pelops."
They spoke too of letters from Roman generals, of treaties concluded with
us during the Macedonian war, and of their copious rivers, of their climate,
and the rich countries round them. 
[4.56] The envoys from Smyrna, after
tracing their city's antiquity back to such founders as either Tantalus,
the son of Jupiter, or Theseus, also of divine origin, or one of the Amazons,
passed on to that on which they chiefly relied, their services to the Roman
people, whom they had helped with naval armaments, not only in wars abroad,
but in those under which we struggled in Italy. They had also been the
first, they said, to build a temple in honour of Rome, during the consulship
of Marcus Porcius Cato, when Rome's power indeed was great, but not yet
raised to the highest point, inasmuch as the Punic capital was still standing
and there were mighty kings in Asia. They appealed too to the of Lucius
Sulla, whose army was once in terrible jeopardy from a severe winter and
want of clothing, and this having been announced at Smyrna in a public
assembly, all who were present stript their clothes off their backs and
sent them to our legions. And so the Senate, when the question was put,
gave the preference to Smyrna. Vibius Marsus moved that Marcus Lepidus,
to whom the province of Asia had been assigned, should have under him a
special commissioner to undertake the charge of this temple. As Lepidus
himself, out of modesty, declined to appoint, Valerius Naso, one of the
ex-praetors, was chosen by lot and sent out. 
[4.57] Meanwhile, after long reflection
on his purpose and frequent deferment of it, the emperor retired into Campania
to dedicate, as he pretended, a temple to Jupiter at Capua and another
to Augustus at Nola, but really resolved to live at a distance from Rome.
Although I have followed most historians in attributing the cause of his
retirement to the arts of Sejanus, still, as he passed six consecutive
years in the same solitude after that minister's destruction, I am often
in doubt whether it is not to be more truly ascribed to himself, and his
wish to hide by the place of his retreat the cruelty and licentiousness
which he betrayed by his actions. Some thought that in his old age he was
ashamed of his personal appearance. He had indeed a tall, singularly slender
and stooping figure, a bald head, a face full of eruptions, and covered
here and there with plasters. In the seclusion of Rhodes he had habituated
himself to shun society and to hide his voluptuous life. According to one
account his mother's domineering temper drove him away; he was weary of
having her as his partner in power, and he could not thrust her aside,
because he had received this very power as her gift. For Augustus had had
thoughts of putting the Roman state under Germanicus, his sister's grandson,
whom all men esteemed, but yielding to his wife's entreaties he left Germanicus
to be adopted by Tiberius and adopted Tiberius himself. With this Augusta
would taunt her son, and claim back what she had given. 
[4.58] His departure was attended
by a small retinue, one senator, who was an ex-consul, Cocceius Nerva,
learned in the laws, one Roman knight, besides Sejanus, of the highest
order, Curtius Atticus, the rest being men of liberal culture, for the
most part Greeks, in whose conversation he might find amusement. It was
said by men who knew the stars that the motions of the heavenly bodies
when Tiberius left Rome were such as to forbid the possibility of his return.
This caused ruin for many who conjectured that his end was near and spread
the rumour; for they never foresaw the very improbable contingency of his
voluntary exile from his home for eleven years. Soon afterwards it was
clearly seen what a narrow margin there is between such science and delusion
and in what obscurity truth is veiled. That he would not return to Rome
was not a mere random assertion; as to the rest, they were wholly in the
dark, seeing that he lived to extreme old age in the country or on the
coast near Rome and often close to the very walls of the city. 
[4.59] It happened at this time that
a perilous accident which occurred to the emperor strengthened vague rumours
and gave him grounds for trusting more fully in the friendship and fidelity
of Sejanus. They were dining in a country house called "The Cave,"
between the gulf of Amuclae and the hills of Fundi, in a natural grotto.
The rocks at its entrance suddenly fell in and crushed some of the attendants;
there upon panic seized the whole company and there was a general flight
of the guests. Sejanus hung over the emperor, and with knee, face, and
hand encountered the falling stones; and was found in this attitude by
the soldiers who came to their rescue. After this he was greater than ever,
and though his counsels were ruinous, he was listened to with confidence,
as a man who had no care for himself. He pretended to act as a judge towards
the children of Germanicus, after having suborned persons to assume the
part of prosecutors and to inveigh specially against Nero, next in succession
to the throne, who, though he had proper youthful modesty, often forgot
present expediency, while freedmen and clients, eager to get power, incited
him to display vigour and self-confidence. "This," they said,
"was what the Roman people wished, what the armies desired, and Sejanus
would not dare to oppose it, though now he insulted alike the tame spirit
of the old emperor and the timidity of the young prince." 
[4.60] Nero, while he listened to
this and like talk, was not indeed inspired with any guilty ambition, but
still occasionally there would break from him wilful and thoughtless expressions
which spies about his person caught up and reported with exaggeration,
and this he had no opportunity of rebutting. Then again alarms under various
forms were continually arising. One man would avoid meeting him; another
after returning his salutation would instantly turn away; many after beginning
a conversation would instantly break it off, while Sejanus's friends would
stand their ground and laugh at him. Tiberius indeed wore an angry frown
or a treacherous smile. Whether the young prince spoke or held his tongue,
silence and speech were alike criminal. Every night had its anxieties,
for his sleepless hours, his dreams and sighs were all made known by his
wife to her mother Livia and by Livia to Sejanus. Nero's brother Drusus
Sejanus actually drew into his scheme by holding out to him the prospect
of becoming emperor through the removal of an elder brother, already all
but fallen. The savage temper of Drusus, to say nothing of lust of power
and the usual feuds between brothers, was inflamed with envy by the partiality
of the mother Agrippina towards Nero. And yet Sejanus, while he favoured
Drusus, was not without thoughts of sowing the seeds of his future ruin,
well knowing how very impetuous he was and therefore the more exposed to
treachery. 
[4.61] Towards the close of the year
died two distinguished men, Asinius Agrippa and Quintus Haterius. Agrippa
was of illustrious rather than ancient ancestry, which his career did not
disgrace; Haterius was of a senatorian family and famous for his eloquence
while he lived, though the monuments which remain of his genius are not
admired as of old. The truth is he succeeded more by vehemence than by
finish of style. While the research and labours of other authors are valued
by an after age, the harmonious fluency of Haterius died with him. 
[4.62] In the year of the consulship
of Marcus Licinius and Lucius Calpurnius, the losses of a great war were
matched by an unexpected disaster, no sooner begun than ended. One Atilius,
of the freedman class, having undertaken to build an amphitheatre at Fidena
for the exhibition of a show of gladiators, failed to lay a solid foundation
to frame the wooden superstructure with beams of sufficient strength; for
he had neither an abundance of wealth, nor zeal for public popularity,
but he had simply sought the work for sordid gain. Thither flocked all
who loved such sights and who during the reign of Tiberius had been wholly
debarred from such amusements; men and women of every age crowding to the
place because it was near Rome. And so the calamity was all the more fatal.
The building was densely crowded; then came a violent shock, as it fell
inwards or spread outwards, precipitating and burying an immense multitude
which was intently gazing on the show or standing round. Those who were
crushed to death in the first moment of the accident had at least under
such dreadful circumstances the advantage of escaping torture. More to
be pitied were they who with limbs torn from them still retained life,
while they recognised their wives and children by seeing them during the
day and by hearing in the night their screams and groans. Soon all the
neighbours in their excitement at the report were bewailing brothers, kinsmen
or parents. Even those whose friends or relatives were away from home for
quite a different reason, still trembled for them, and as it was not yet
known who had been destroyed by the crash, suspense made the alarm more
widespread. 
[4.63] As soon as they began to remove
the debris, there was a rush to see the lifeless forms and much embracing
and kissing. Often a dispute would arise, when some distorted face, bearing
however a general resemblance of form and age, had baffled their efforts
at recognition. Fifty thousand persons were maimed or destroyed in this
disaster. For the future it was provided by a decree of the Senate that
no one was to exhibit a show of gladiators, whose fortune fell short of
four hundred thousand sesterces, and that no amphitheatre was to be erected
except on a foundation, the solidity of which had been examined. Atilius
was banished. At the moment of the calamity the nobles threw open houses
and supplied indiscriminately medicines and physicians, so that Rome then,
notwithstanding her sorrowful aspect, wore a likeness to the manners of
our forefathers who after a great battle always relieved the wounded with
their bounty and attentions. 
[4.64] This disaster was not forgotten
when a furious conflagration damaged the capital to an unusual extent,
reducing Mount Caelius to ashes. "It was an ill-starred year,"
people began to say, "and the emperor's purpose of leaving Rome must
have been formed under evil omens." They began in vulgar fashion to
trace ill-luck to guilt, when Tiberius checked them by distributing money
in proportion to losses sustained. He received a vote of thanks in the
Senate from its distinguished members, and was applauded by the populace
for having assisted with his liberality, without partiality or the solicitations
of friends, strangers whom he had himself sought out. And proposals were
also made that Mount Caelius should for the future be called Mount Augustus,
inasmuch as when all around was in flames only a single statue of Tiberius
in the house of one Junius, a senator, had remained uninjured. This, it
was said, had formerly happened to Claudia Quinta; her statue, which had
twice escaped the violence of fire, had been dedicated by our ancestors
in the temple of the Mother of Gods; hence the Claudii had been accounted
sacred and numbered among deities, and so additional sanctity ought to
be given to a spot where heaven showed such honour to the emperor. 
[4.65] It will not be uninteresting
to mention that Mount Caelius was anciently known by the name of Querquetulanus,
because it grew oak timber in abundance and was afterwards called Caelius
by Caeles Vibenna, who led the Etruscan people to the aid of Rome and had
the place given him as a possession by Tarquinius Priscus or by some other
of the kings. As to that point historians differ; as to the rest, it is
beyond a question that Vibenna's numerous forces established themselves
in the plain beneath and in the neighbourhood of the forum, and that the
Tuscan street was named after these strangers. 
[4.66] But though the zeal of the
nobles and the bounty of the prince brought relief to suffering, yet every
day a stronger and fiercer host of informers pursued its victims, without
one alleviating circumstance. Quintilius Varus, a rich man and related
to the emperor, was suddenly attacked by Domitius Afer, the successful
prosecutor of Claudia Pulchra, his mother, and no one wondered that the
needy adventurer of many years who had squandered his lately gotten recompense
was now preparing himself for fresh iniquities. That Publius Dolabella
should have associated himself in the prosecution was a marvel, for he
was of illustrious ancestry, was allied to Varus, and was now himself seeking
to destroy his own noble race, his own kindred. The Senate however stopped
the proceeding, and decided to wait for the emperor, this being the only
means of escaping for a time impending horrors. 
[4.67] Caesar, meanwhile, after dedicating
the temples in Campania, warned the public by an edict not to disturb his
retirement and posted soldiers here and there to keep off the throngs of
townsfolk. But he so loathed the towns and colonies and, in short, every
place on the mainland, that he buried himself in the island of Capreae
which is separated by three miles of strait from the extreme point of the
promontory of Sorrentum. The solitude of the place was, I believe, its
chief attraction, for a harbourless sea surrounds it and even for a small
vessel it has but few safe retreats, nor can any one land unknown to the
sentries. Its air in winter is soft, as it is screened by a mountain which
is a protection against cutting winds. In summer it catches the western
breezes, and the open sea round it renders it most delightful. It commanded
too a prospect of the most lovely bay, till Vesuvius, bursting into flames,
changed the face of the country. Greeks, so tradition says, occupied those
parts and Capreae was inhabited by the Teleboi. Tiberius had by this time
filled the island with twelve country houses, each with a grand name and
a vast structure of its own. Intent as he had once been on the cares of
state, he was now for thoroughly unbending himself in secret profligacy
and a leisure of malignant schemes. For he still retained that rash proneness
to suspect and to believe, which even at Rome Sejanus used to foster, and
which he here excited more keenly, no longer concealing his machinations
against Agrippina and Nero. Soldiers hung about them, and every message,
every visit, their public and their private life were I may say regularly
chronicled. And persons were actually suborned to advise them to flee to
the armies of Germany, or when the Forum was most crowded, to clasp the
statue of statue of the Divine Augustus and appeal to the protection of
the people and Senate. These counsels they disdained, but they were charged
with having had thoughts of acting on them. 
[4.68] The year of the consulship
of Silanus and Silius Nerva opened with a foul beginning. A Roman knight
of the highest rank, Titius Sabinus, was dragged to prison because he had
been a friend of Germanicus. He had indeed persisted in showing marked
respect towards his wife and children, as their visitor at home, their
companion in public, the solitary survivor of so many clients, and he was
consequently esteemed by the good, as he was a terror to the evil-minded.
Latinius Latiaris, Porcius Cato, Petitius Rufus, and Marcus Opsius, ex-praetors,
conspired to attack him, with an eye to the consulship, to which there
was access only through Sejanus, and the good will of Sejanus was to be
gained only by a crime. They arranged amongst themselves that Latiaris,
who had some slight acquaintance with Sabinus, should devise the plot,
that the rest should be present as witnesses, and that then they should
begin the prosecution. Accordingly Latiaris, after first dropping some
casual remarks, went on to praise the fidelity of Sabinus in not having,
like others, forsaken after its fall the house of which he had been the
friend in its prosperity. He also spoke highly of Germanicus and compassionately
of Agrippina. Sabinus, with the natural softness of the human heart under
calamity, burst into tears, which he followed up with complaints, and soon
with yet more daring invective against Sejanus, against his cruelty, pride
and ambition. He did not spare even Tiberius in his reproaches. That conversation,
having united them, as it were, in an unlawful secret, led to a semblance
of close intimacy. Henceforward Sabinus himself sought Latiaris, went continually
to his house, and imparted to him his griefs, as to a most faithful friend.

[4.69] The men whom I have named now
consulted how these conversations might fall within the hearing of more
persons. It was necessary that the place of meeting should preserve the
appearance of secrecy, and, if witnesses were to stand behind the doors,
there was a fear of their being seen or heard, or of suspicion casually
arising. Three senators thrust themselves into the space between the roof
and ceiling, a hiding-place as shameful as the treachery was execrable.
They applied their ears to apertures and crevices. Latiaris meanwhile having
met Sabinus in the streets, drew him to his house and to the room, as if
he was going to communicate some fresh discoveries. There he talked much
about past and impending troubles, a copious topic indeed, and about fresh
horrors. Sabinus spoke as before and at greater length, as sorrow, when
once it has broken into utterance, is the harder to restrain. Instantly
they hastened to accuse him, and having despatched a letter to the emperor,
they informed him of the order of the plot and of their own infamy. Never
was Rome more distracted and terror-stricken. Meetings, conversations,
the ear of friend and stranger were alike shunned; even things mute and
lifeless, the very roofs and walls, were eyed with suspicion. 
[4.70] The emperor in his letter on
the first of January, after offering the usual prayers for the new year,
referred to Sabinus, whom he reproached with having corrupted some of his
freedmen and having attempted his life, and he claimed vengeance in no
obscure language. It was decreed without hesitation, and the condemned
man was dragged off, exclaiming as loudly as he could, with head covered
and throat tightly bound, "that this was inaugurating the year; these
were the victims slain to Sejanus." Wherever he turned his eyes, wherever
his words fell, there was flight and solitude; the streets and public places
were forsaken. A few retraced their steps and again showed themselves,
shuddering at the mere fact that they had betrayed alarm. "What day,"
they asked, "will be without some execution, when amid sacrifices
and prayers, a time when it is usual to refrain even from a profane word,
the chain and halter are introduced? Tiberius has not incurred such odium
blindly; this is a studied device to make us believe that there is no reason
why the new magistrates should not open the dungeons as well as the temple
and the altars." Thereupon there came a letter of thanks to them for
having punished a bitter foe to the State, and the emperor further added
that he had an anxious life, that he apprehended treachery from enemies,
but he mentioned no one by name. Still there was no question that this
was aimed at Nero and Agrippina. 
[4.71] But for my plan of referring
each event to its own year, I should feel a strong impulse to anticipate
matters and at once relate the deaths by which Latinius and Opsius and
the other authors of this atrocious deed perished, some after Caius became
emperor, some even while Tiberius yet ruled. For although he would not
have the instruments of his wickedness destroyed by others, he frequently,
when he was tired of them, and fresh ones offered themselves for the same
services, flung off the old, now become a mere incubus. But these and other
punishments of guilty men I shall describe in due course. Asinius Gallus,
to whose children Agrippina was aunt, then moved that the emperor should
be requested to disclose his apprehensions to the Senate and allow their
removal. Of all his virtues, as he counted them, there was none on which
Tiberius so prided himself as his ability to dissemble, and he was therefore
the more irritated at an attempt to expose what he was hiding. Sejanus
however pacified him, not out of love for Gallus, but rather to wait the
result of the emperor's wavering mood, knowing, as he did, that, though
slow in forming his purpose, yet having once broken through his reserve,
he would follow up harsh words with terrible deeds. About the same time
Julia died, the granddaughter of Augustus. He had condemned her on a conviction
of adultery and had banished her to the island of Trimerus, not far from
the shores of Apulia. There she endured a twenty years' exile, in which
she was supported by relief from Augusta, who having overthrown the prosperity
of her step-children by secret machinations, made open display of her compassion
to the fallen family. 
[4.72] That same year the Frisii,
a nation beyond the Rhine, cast off peace, more because of our rapacity
than from their impatience of subjection. Drusus had imposed on them a
moderate tribute, suitable to their limited resources, the furnishing of
ox hides for military purposes. No one ever severely scrutinized the size
or thickness till Olennius, a first-rank centurion, appointed to govern
the Frisii, selected hides of wild bulls as the standard according to which
they were to be supplied. This would have been hard for any nation, and
it was the less tolerable to the Germans, whose forests abound in huge
beasts, while their home cattle are undersized. First it was their herds,
next their lands, last, the persons of their wives and children, which
they gave up to bondage. Then came angry remonstrances, and when they received
no relief, they sought a remedy in war. The soldiers appointed to collect
the tribute were seized and gibbeted. Olennius anticipated their fury by
flight, and found refuge in a fortress, named Flevum, where a by no means
contemptible force of Romans and allies kept guard over the shores of the
ocean. 
[4.73] As soon as this was known to
Lucius Apronius, propraetor of Lower Germany, he summoned from the Upper
province the legionary veterans, as well as some picked auxiliary infantry
and cavalry. Instantly conveying both armies down the Rhine, he threw them
on the Frisii, raising at once the siege of the fortress and dispersing
the rebels in defence of their own possessions. Next, he began constructing
solid roads and bridges over the neighbouring estuaries for the passage
of his heavy troops, and meanwhile having found a ford, he ordered the
cavalry of the Canninefates, with all the German infantry which served
with us, to take the enemy in the rear. Already in battle array, they were
beating back our auxiliary horse as well as that of the legions sent to
support them, when three light cohorts, then two more, and after a while
the entire cavalry were sent to the attack. They were strong enough, had
they charged altogether, but coming up, as they did, at intervals, they
did not give fresh courage to the repulsed troops and were themselves carried
away in the panic of the fugitives. Apronius entrusted the rest of the
auxiliaries to Cethegus Labeo, the commander of the fifth legion, but he
too, finding his men's position critical and being in extreme peril, sent
messages imploring the whole strength of the legions. The soldiers of the
fifth sprang forward, drove back the enemy in a fierce encounter, and saved
our cohorts and cavalry, who were exhausted by their wounds. But the Roman
general did not attempt vengeance or even bury the dead, although many
tribunes, prefects, and first-rank centurions had fallen. Soon afterwards
it was ascertained from deserters that nine hundred Romans had been cut
to pieces in a wood called Braduhenna's, after prolonging the fight to
the next day, and that another body of four hundred, which had taken possession
of the house of one Cruptorix, once a soldier in our pay, fearing betrayal,
had perished by mutual slaughter. 
[4.74] The Frisian name thus became
famous in Germany, and Tiberius kept our losses a secret, not wishing to
entrust any one with the war. Nor did the Senate care whether dishonour
fell on the extreme frontiers of the empire. Fear at home had filled their
hearts, and for this they sought relief in sycophancy. And so, although
their advice was asked on totally different subjects, they decreed an altar
to Clemency, an altar to Friendship, and statues round them to Caesar and
Sejanus, both of whom they earnestly begged with repeated entreaties to
allow themselves to be seen in public. Still, neither of them would visit
Rome or even the neighbourhood of Rome; they thought it enough to quit
the island and show themselves on the opposite shores of Campania. Senators,
knights, a number of the city populace flocked thither, anxiously looking
to Sejanus, approach to whom was particularly difficult and was consequently
sought by intrigue and by complicity in his counsels. It was sufficiently
clear that his arrogance was increased by gazing on this foul and openly
displayed servility. At Rome indeed hurrying crowds are a familiar sight,
from the extent of the city no one knows on what business each citizen
is bent; but there, as they lounged in promiscuous crowds in the fields
or on the shore, they had to bear day and night alike the patronising smiles
and the supercilious insolence of hall-porters, till even this was forbidden
them, and those whom Sejanus had not deigned to accost or to look on, returned
to the capital in alarm, while some felt an evil joy, though there hung
over them the dreadful doom of that ill-starred friendship. 
[4.75] Tiberius meanwhile having himself
in person bestowed the hand of his granddaughter Agrippina, Germanicus's
daughter, on Cneius Domitius, directed the marriage to be celebrated at
Rome. In selecting Domitius he looked not only to his ancient lineage,
but also to his alliance with the blood of the Caesars, for he could point
to Octavia as his grandmother and through her to Augustus as his great-uncle.

Book 5 - (A.D. 29-31)
[5.1] IN the consulship of Rubellius
and Fufius, both of whom had the surname Geminus, died in an advanced old
age Julia Augusta. A Claudia by birth and by adoption a Livia and a Julia,
she united the noblest blood of Rome. Her first marriage, by which she
had children, was with Tiberius Nero, who, an exile during the Perusian
war, returned to Rome when peace had been concluded between Sextus Pompeius
and the triumvirs. After this Caesar, enamoured of her beauty, took her
away from her husband, whether against her wish is uncertain. So impatient
was he that he brought her to his house actually pregnant, not allowing
time for her confinement. She had no subsequent issue, but allied as she
was through the marriage of Agrippina and Germanicus to the blood of Augustus,
her great-grandchildren were also his. In the purity of her home life she
was of the ancient type, but was more gracious than was thought fitting
in ladies of former days. An imperious mother and an amiable wife, she
was a match for the diplomacy of her husband and the dissimulation of her
son. Her funeral was simple, and her will long remained unexecuted. Her
panegyric was pronounced from the Rostra by her great-grandson, Caius Caesar,
who afterwards succeeded to power. 
[5.2] Tiberius however, making no change
in his voluptuous life, excused himself by letter for his absence from
his last duty to his mother on the ground of the pressure of business.
He even abridged, out of moderation, as it seemed, the honours which the
Senate had voted on a lavish scale to her memory, allowing only a very
few, and adding that no religious worship was to be decreed, this having
been her own wish. In a part of the same letter he sneered at female friendships,
with an indirect censure on the consul Fufius, who had risen to distinction
through Augusta's partiality. Fufius was indeed a man well fitted to win
the affection of a woman; he was witty too, and accustomed to ridicule
Tiberius with those bitter jests which the powerful remember so long. 
[5.3] This at all events was the beginning
of an unmitigated and grinding despotism. As long indeed as Augusta lived,
there yet remained a refuge, for with Tiberius obedience to his mother
was the habit of a life, and Sejanus did not dare to set himself above
a parent's authority. Now, so to say, they threw off the reins and let
loose their fury. A letter was sent, directed against Agrippina and Nero,
which was popularly believed to have been long before forwarded and to
have been kept back by Augusta, as it was publicly read soon after her
death. It contained expressions of studied harshness, yet it was not armed
rebellion or a longing for revolution, but unnatural passions and profligacy
which the emperor imputed to his grandson. Against his daughter-in-law
he did not dare to invent this much; he merely censured her insolent tongue
and defiant spirit, amid the panic-stricken silence of the Senate, till
a few who had no hope from merit (and public calamities are ever used by
individuals for interested purposes) demanded that the question should
be debated. The most eager was Cotta Messalinus, who made a savage speech.
Still, the other principal senators, and especially the magistrates, were
perplexed, for Tiberius, notwithstanding his furious invective, had left
everything else in doubt. 
[5.4] There was in the Senate one Junius
Rusticus, who having been appointed by the emperor to register its debates
was therefore supposed to have an insight into his secret purposes. This
man, whether through some fatal impulse (he had indeed never before given
any evidence of courage) or a misdirected acuteness which made him tremble
at the uncertain future, while he forgot impending perils, attached himself
to the waverers, and warned the consuls not to enter on the debate. He
argued that the highest issues turned on trivial causes, and that the fall
of the house of Germanicus might one day move the old man's remorse. At
the same moment the people, bearing the images of Agrippina and Nero, thronged
round the Senate-house, and, with words of blessing on the emperor, kept
shouting that the letter was a forgery and that it was not by the prince's
will that ruin was being plotted against his house. And so that day passed
without any dreadful result. Fictitious speeches too against Sejanus were
published under the names of ex-consuls, for several persons indulged,
all the more recklessly because anonymously, the caprice of their imaginations.
Consequently the wrath of Sejanus was the more furious, and he had ground
for alleging that the Senate disregarded the emperor's trouble; that the
people were in revolt; that speeches in a new style and new resolutions
were being heard and read. What remained but to take the sword and chose
for their generals and emperors those whose images they had followed as
standards. 
[5.5] Upon this the emperor, after
repeating his invectives against his grandson and his daughter-in-law and
reprimanding the populace in an edict complained to the Senate that by
the trick of one senator the imperial dignity had been publicly flouted,
and he insisted that, after all, the whole matter should be left to his
exclusive decision. Without further deliberation, they proceeded, not indeed
to pronounce the final sentence (for this was forbidden), but to declare
that they were prepared for vengeance, and were restrained only by the
strong hand of the sovereign. 
(The remainder of the fifth book and the beginning of the sixth, recounting
Sejanus' marriage and fall and covering a space of nearly three years,
are lost. Newer editions of Tacitus mark the division between the fifth
and sixth books at this point rather than at the end of section 11; but
references are regularly made to the older numbering, and so it has been
retained here. The beginning of section 6 is obviously fragmentary.) 
[5.6] .... forty-four speeches were
delivered on this subject, a few of which were prompted by fear, most by
the habit of flattery.... "There is now a change of fortune, and even
he who chose Sejanus to be his colleague and his son-in-law excuses his
error. As for the rest, the man whom they encouraged by shameful baseness,
they now wickedly revile. Which is the most pitiable, to be accused for
friendship's sake or to have to accuse a friend, I cannot decide. I will
not put any man's cruelty or compassion to the test, but, while I am free
and have a clear conscience, I will anticipate peril. I implore you to
cherish my memory with joy rather than with sorrow, numbering me too with
those who by noble death have fled from the miseries of our country."

[5.7] Then detaining those of his friends
who were minded to stay with him and converse, or, if otherwise, dismissing
them, he thus spent part of the day, and with a numerous circle yet round
him, all gazing on his fearless face, and imagining that there was still
time to elapse before the last scene, he fell on a sword which he had concealed
in his robe. The emperor did not pursue him after his death with either
accusation or reproach, although he had heaped a number of foul charges
on Blaesus. 
[5.8] Next were discussed the cases
of Publius Vitellius and Pomponius Secundus. The first was charged by his
accusers with having offered the keys of the treasury, of which he was
prefect, and the military chest in aid of a revolution. Against the latter,
Considius, an ex-praetor, alleged intimacy with Aelius Gallus, who, after
the punishment of Sejanus, had fled to the gardens of Pomponius, as his
safest refuge. They had no resource in their peril but in the courageous
firmness of their brothers who became their sureties. Soon, after several
adjournments, Vitellius, weary alike of hope and fear, asked for a penknife,
avowedly, for his literary pursuits, and inflicted a slight wound in his
veins, and died at last of a broken heart. Pomponius, a man of refined
manners and brilliant genius, bore his adverse fortune with resignation,
and outlived Tiberius. 
[5.9] It was next decided to punish
the remaining children of Sejanus, though the fury of the populace was
subsiding, and people generally had been appeased by the previous executions.
Accordingly they were carried off to prison, the boy, aware of his impending
doom, and the little girl, who was so unconscious that she continually
asked what was her offence, and whither she was being dragged, saying that
she would do so no more, and a childish chastisement was enough for her
correction. Historians of the time tell us that, as there was no precedent
for the capital punishment of a virgin, she was violated by the executioner,
with the rope on her neck. Then they were strangled and their bodies, mere
children as they were, were flung down the Gemoniae. 
[5.10] About the same time Asia and
Achaia were alarmed by a prevalent but short-lived rumour that Drusus,
the son of Germanicus, had been seen in the Cyclades and subsequently on
the mainland. There was indeed a young man of much the same age, whom some
of the emperor's freedmen pretended to recognise, and to whom they attached
themselves with a treacherous intent. The renown of the name attracted
the ignorant, and the Greek mind eagerly fastens on what is new and marvellous.
The story indeed, which they no sooner invented than believed, was that
Drusus had escaped from custody, and was on his way to the armies of his
father, with the design of invading Egypt or Syria. And he was now drawing
to himself a multitude of young men and much popular enthusiasm, enjoying
the present and cherishing idle hopes of the future, when Poppaeus Sabinus
heard of the affair. At the time he was chiefly occupied with Macedonia,
but he also had the charge of Achaia. So, to forestall the danger, let
the story be true or false, he hurried by the bays of Torone and Thermae,
then passed on to Euboea, an island of the Aegaean, to Piraeus, on the
coast of Attica, thence to the shores of Corinth and the narrow Isthmus,
and having arrived by the other sea at Nicopolis, a Roman colony, he there
at last ascertained that the man, when skilfully questioned, had said that
he was the son of Marcus Silanus, and that, after the dispersion of a number
of his followers' he had embarked on a vessel, intending, it seemed, to
go to Italy. Sabinus sent this account to Tiberius, and of the origin and
issue of the affair nothing more is known to me. 
[5.11] At the close of the year a
long growing feud between the consuls broke out. Trio, a reckless man in
incurring enmities and a practised lawyer, had indirectly censured Regulus
as having been half-hearted in crushing the satellites of Sejanus. Regulus,
who, unless he was provoked, loved quietness, not only repulsed his colleague's
attack, but was for dragging him to trial as a guilty accomplice in the
conspiracy. And though many of the senators implored them to compose a
quarrel likely to end fatally, they continued their enmity and their mutual
menaces till they retired from office. 
Book 6 - (A.D. 32-37)
[6.1] CNEIUS Domitius and Camillus
Scribonianus had entered on the consulship when the emperor, after crossing
the channel which divides Capreae from Surrentum, sailed along Campania,
in doubt whether he should enter Rome, or, possibly, simulating the intention
of going thither, because he had resolved otherwise. He often landed at
points in the neighborhood, visited the gardens by the Tiber, but went
back again to the cliffs and to the solitude of the sea shores, in shame
at the vices and profligacies into which he had plunged so unrestrainedly
that in the fashion of a despot he debauched the children of free-born
citizens. It was not merely beauty and a handsome person which he felt
as an incentive to his lust, but the modesty of childhood in some, and
noble ancestry in others. Hitherto unknown terms were then for the first
time invented, derived from the abominations of the place and the endless
phases of sensuality. Slaves too were set over the work of seeking out
and procuring, with rewards for the willing, and threats to the reluctant,
and if there was resistance from a relative or a parent, they used violence
and force, and actually indulged their own passions as if dealing with
captives. 
[6.2] At Rome meanwhile, in the beginning
of the year, as if Livia's crimes had just been discovered and not also
long ago punished, terrible decrees were proposed against her very statues
and memory, and the property of Sejanus was to be taken from the exchequer
and transferred to the imperial treasury; as if there was any difference.
The motion was being urged with extreme persistency, in almost the same
or with but slightly changed language, by such men as Scipio, Silanus,
and Cassius, when suddenly Togonius Gallus intruding his own obscurity
among illustrious names, was heard with ridicule. He begged the emperor
to select a number of senators, twenty out of whom should be chosen by
lot to wear swords and to defend his person, whenever he entered the Senate
House. The man had actually believed a letter from him in which he asked
the protection of one of the consuls, so that he might go in safety from
Capreae to Rome. Tiberius however, who usually combined jesting and seriousness,
thanked the senators for their goodwill, but asked who could be rejected,
who could be chosen? "Were they always to be the same, or was there
to be a succession? Were they to be men who had held office or youths,
private citizens or officials? Then, again, what a scene would be presented
by persons grasping their swords on the threshold of the Senate House?
His life was not of so much worth if it had to be defended by arms."
This was his answer to Togonius, guarded in its expression, and he urged
nothing beyond the rejection of the motion. 
[6.3] Junius Gallio however, who had
proposed that the praetorian soldiers, after having served their campaigns,
should acquire the privilege of sitting in the fourteen rows of the theatre,
received a savage censure. Tiberius, just as if he were face to face with
him, asked what he had to do with the soldiers, who ought to receive the
emperor's orders or his rewards except from the emperor himself? He had
really discovered something which the Divine Augustus had not foreseen.
Or was not one of Sejanus's satellites rather seeking to sow discord and
sedition, as a means of prompting ignorant minds, under the pretence of
compliment, to ruin military discipline? This was Gallio's recompense for
his carefully prepared flattery, with immediate expulsion from the Senate,
and then from Italy. And as men complained that he would endure his exile
with equanimity, since he had chosen the famous and lovely island of Lesbos,
he was dragged back to Rome, and confined in the houses of different officials.
The emperor in the same letter crushed Sextius Paconianus, an ex-praetor,
to the great joy of the senators, as he was a daring, mischievous man,
who pryed into every person's secrets, and had been the chosen instrument
of Sejanus in his treacherous designs against Caius Caesar. When this fact
was divulged, there came an outburst of long-concealed hatreds, and there
must have been a sentence of capital punishment, had he not himself volunteered
a disclosure. 
[6.4] As soon as he named Latinius Latiaris,
accuser and accused, both alike objects of execration, presented a most
welcome spectacle. Latiaris, as I have related, had been foremost in contriving
the ruin of Titius Sabinus, and was now the first to pay the penalty. By
way of episode, Haterius Agrippa inveighed against the consuls of the previous
year for now sitting silent after their threats of impeaching one another.
"It must be fear," he said, "and a guilty conscience which
are acting as a bond of union. But the senators must not keep back what
they have heard." Regulus replied that he was awaiting the opportunity
for vengeance, and meant to press it in the emperor's presence. Trio's
answer was that it was best to efface the memory of rivalries between colleagues,
and of any words uttered in quarrels. When Agrippa still persisted, Sanquinius
Maximus, one of the ex-consuls, implored the Senate not to increase the
emperor's anxieties by seeking further occasions of bitterness, as he was
himself competent to provide remedies. This secured the safety of Regulus
and the postponement of Trio's ruin. Haterius was hated all the more. Wan
with untimely slumbers and nights of riot, and not fearing in his indolence
even the cruellest of princes, he yet plotted amid his gluttony and lust
the destruction of illustrious men. 
[6.5] Several charges were next brought,
as soon as the opportunity offered, against Cotta Messalinus, the author
of every unusually cruel proposal, and consequently, regarded with inveterate
hatred. He had spoken, it was said, of Caius Caesar, as if it were a question
whether he was a man, and of an entertainment at which he was present on
Augusta's birthday with the priests, as a funeral banquet. In remonstrating
too against the influence of Marcus Lepidus and Lucius Arruntius, with
whom he had disputes on many matters, he had added the remark, "They
will have the Senate's support; I shall have that of my darling Tiberius."
But the leading men of the State failed to convict him on all the charges.
When they pressed the case, he appealed to the emperor. Soon afterwards,
a letter arrived, in which Tiberius traced the origin of the friendship
between himself and Cotta, enumerated his frequent services, and then requested
that words perversely misrepresented and the freedom of table talk might
not be construed into a crime. 
[6.6] The beginning of the emperor's
letter seemed very striking. It opened thus: "May all the gods and
goddesses destroy me more miserably than I feel myself to be daily perishing,
if I know at know at this moment what to write to you, Senators, how to
write it, or what, in short, not to write." So completely had his
crimes and infamies recoiled, as a penalty, on himself. With profound meaning
was it often affirmed by the greatest teacher of philosophy that, could
the minds of tyrants be laid bare, there would be seen gashes and wounds;
for, as the body is lacerated by scourging, so is the spirit by brutality,
by lust and by evil thoughts. Assuredly Tiberius was not saved by his elevation
or his solitude from having to confess the anguish of his heart and his
self-inflicted punishment. 
[6.7] Authority was then given to the
Senate to decide the case of Caecilianus, one of its members, the chief
witness against Cotta, and it was agreed that the same penalty should be
inflicted as on Aruseius and Sanquinius, the accusers of Lucius Arruntius.
Nothing ever happened to Cotta more to his distinction. Of noble birth,
but beggared by extravagance and infamous for his excesses, he was now
by dignity of his revenge, raised to a level with the stainless virtues
of Arruntius. Quintus Servaeus and Minucius Thermus were next arraigned.
Servaeus was an ex-praetor, and had formerly been a companion of Germanicus;
Minucius was of equestrian rank, and both had enjoyed, though discreetly,
the friendship of Sejanus. Hence they were the more pitied. Tiberius, on
the contrary, denounced them as foremost in crime, and bade Caius Cestius,
the elder, tell the Senate what he had communicated to the emperor by letter.
Cestius undertook the prosecution. And this was the most dreadful feature
of the age, that leading members of the Senate, some openly, some secretly
employed themselves in the very lowest work of the informer. One could
not distinguish between aliens and kinsfolk, between friends and strangers,
or say what was quite recent, or what half-forgotten from lapse of time.
People were incriminated for some casual remark in the forum or at the
dinner-table, for every one was impatient to be the first to mark his victim,
some to screen themselves, most from being, as it were, infected with the
contagion of the malady. Minucius and Servaeus, on being condemned, went
over to the prosecution, and then Julius Africanus with Seius Quadratus
were dragged into the same ruin. Africanus was from the Santones, one of
the states of Gaul; the origin of Quadratus I have not ascertained. Many
authors, I am well aware, have passed over the perils and punishments of
a host of persons, sickened by the multiplicity of them, or fearing that
what they had themselves found wearisome and saddening would be equally
fatiguing to their readers. For myself, I have lighted on many facts worth
knowing, though other writers have not recorded them. 
[6.8] A Roman knight, Marcus Terentius,
at the crisis when all others had hypocritically repudiated the friendship
of Sejanus, dared, when impeached on that ground, to cling to it by the
following avowal to the Senate: "In my position it is perhaps less
to my advantage to acknowledge than to deny the charge. Still, whatever
is to be the issue of the matter, I shall admit that I was the friend of
Sejanus, that I anxiously sought to be such, and was delighted when I was
successful. I had seen him his father's colleague in the command of the
praetorian cohorts, and subsequently combining the duties of civil and
military life. His kinsfolk and connections were loaded with honours; intimacy
with Sejanus was in every case a powerful recommendation to the emperor's
friendship. Those, on the contrary, whom he hated, had to struggle with
danger and humiliation. I take no individual as an instance. All of us
who had no part in his last design, I mean to defend at the peril of myself
alone. It was really not Sejanus of Vulsinii, it was a member of the Claudian
and Julian houses, in which he had taken a position by his marriage-alliance,
it was your son-in-law, Caesar, your partner in the consulship, the man
who administered your political functions, whom we courted. It is not for
us to criticise one whom you may raise above all others, or your motives
for so doing. Heaven has intrusted you with the supreme decision of affairs,
and for us is left the glory of obedience. And, again, we see what takes
place before our eyes, who it is on whom you bestow riches and honours,
who are the most powerful to help or to injure. That Sejanus was such,
no one will deny. To explore the prince's secret thoughts, or any of his
hidden plans, is a forbidden, a dangerous thing, nor does it follow that
one could reach them. "Do not, Senators, think only of Sejanus's last
day, but of his sixteen years of power. We actually adored a Satrius and
a Pomponius. To be known even to his freedmen and hall-porters was thought
something very grand. What then is my meaning? Is this apology meant to
be offered for all without difference and discrimination? No; it is to
be restricted within proper limits. Let plots against the State, murderous
designs against the emperor be punished. As for friendship and its obligations,
the same principle must acquit both you, Caesar, and us." 
[6.9] The courage of this speech and
the fact that there had been found a man to speak out what was in all people's
thoughts, had such an effect that the accusers of Terentius were sentenced
to banishment or death, their previous offences being taken into account.
Then came a letter from Tiberius against Sextus Vestilius, an ex-praetor,
whom, as a special favourite of his brother Drusus, the emperor had admitted
into his own select circle. His reason for being displeased with Vestilius
was that he had either written an attack on Caius Caesar as a profligate,
or that Tiberius believed a false charge. For this Vestilius was excluded
from the prince's table. He then tried the knife with his aged hand, but
again bound up his veins, opening them once more however on having begged
for pardon by letter and received a pitiless answer. After him a host of
persons were charged with treason, Annius Pollio, Appius Silanus, Scaurus
Mamercus, Sabinus Calvisius, Vinicianus too, coupled with Pollio, his father,
men all of illustrious descent, some too of the highest political distinction.
The senators were panic-stricken, for how few of their number were not
connected by alliance or by friendship with this multitude of men of rank!
Celsus however, tribune of a city cohort, and now one of the prosecutors,
saved Appius and Calvisius from the peril. The emperor postponed the cases
of Pollio, Vinicianus, and Scaurus, intending to try them himself with
the Senate, not however without affixing some ominous marks to the name
of Scaurus. 
[6.10] Even women were not exempt from
danger. Where they could not be accused of grasping at political power,
their tears were made a crime. Vitia, an aged woman, mother of Fufius Geminus,
was executed for bewailing the death of her son. Such were the proceedings
in the Senate. It was the same with the emperor. Vescularius Atticus and
Julius Marinus were hurried off to execution, two of his oldest friends,
men who had followed him to Rhodes and been his inseparable companions
at Capreae. Vescularius was his agent in the plot against Libo, and it
was with the co-operation of Marinus that Sejanus had ruined Curtius Atticus.
Hence there was all the more joy at the recoil of these precedents on their
authors. About the same time Lucius Piso, the pontiff, died a natural death,
a rare incident in so high a rank. Never had he by choice proposed a servile
motion, and, whenever necessity was too strong for him, he would suggest
judicious compromises. His father, as I have related, had been a censor.
He lived to the advanced age of eighty, and had won in Thrace the honour
of a triumph. But his chief glory rested on the wonderful tact with which
as city-prefect he handled an authority, recently made perpetual and all
the more galling to men unaccustomed to obey it. 
[6.11] In former days, when the kings
and subsequently the chief magistrates went from Rome, an official was
temporarily chosen to administer justice and provide for emergencies, so
that the capital might not be left without government. It is said that
Denter Romulius was appointed by Romulus, then Numa Marcius by Tullus Hostilius,
and Spurius Lucretius by Tarquinius Superbus. Afterwards, the consuls made
the appointment. The shadow of the old practice still survives, whenever
in consequence of the Latin festival some one is deputed to exercise the
consul's functions. And Augustus too during the civil wars gave Cilnius
Maecenas, a Roman knight, charge of everything in Rome and Italy. When
he rose to supreme power, in consideration of the magnitude of the State
and the slowness of legal remedies, he selected one of the exconsuls to
overawe the slaves and that part of the population which, unless it fears
a strong hand, is disorderly and reckless. Messala Corvinus was the first
to obtain the office, which he lost within a few days, as not knowing how
to discharge it. After him Taurus Statilius, though in advanced years,
sustained it admirably; and then Piso, after twenty years of similar credit,
was, by the Senate's decree, honoured with a public funeral. 
[6.12] A motion was next brought forward
in the Senate by Quintilianus, a tribune of the people, respecting an alleged
book of the Sibyl. Caninius Gallus, a book of the College of the Fifteen,
had asked that it might be received among the other volumes of the same
prophetess by a decree on the subject. This having been carried by a division,
the emperor sent a letter in which he gently censured the tribune, as ignorant
of ancient usage because of his youth. Gallus he scolded for having introduced
the matter in a thin Senate, notwithstanding his long experience in the
science of religious ceremonies, without taking the opinion of the College
or having the verses read and criticised, as was usual, by its presidents,
though their authenticity was very doubtful. He also reminded him that,
as many spurious productions were current under a celebrated name, Augustus
had prescribed a day within which they should be deposited with the city-praetor,
and after which it should not be lawful for any private person to hold
them. The same regulations too had been made by our ancestors after the
burning of the Capitol in the social war, when there was a search throughout
Samos, Ilium, Erythrae, and even in Africa, Sicily and the Italian colonies
for the verses of the Sibyl (whether there were but one or more) and the
priests were charged with the business of distinguishing, as far as they
could by human means, what were genuine. Accordingly the book in question
was now also submitted to the scrutiny of the College of the Fifteen. 
[6.13] During the same consulship a
high price of corn almost brought on an insurrection. For several days
there were many clamorous demands made in the theatre with an unusual freedom
of language towards the emperor. This provoked him to censure the magistrates
and the Senate for not having used the authority of the State to put down
the people. He named too the corn-supplying provinces, and dwelt on the
far larger amount of grain imported by himself than by Augustus. So the
Senate drew up a decree in the severe spirit of antiquity, and the consuls
issued a not less stringent proclamation. The emperor's silence was not,
as he had hoped, taken as a proof of patriotism, but of pride. 
[6.14] At the year's close Geminius,
Celsus and Pompeius, Roman knights, fell beneath a charge of conspiracy.
Of these Caius Geminius, by lavish expenditure and a luxurious life, had
been a friend of Sejanus, but with no serious result. Julius Celsus, a
tribune, while in confinement, loosened his chain, and having twisted it
around him, broke his neck by throwing himself in an opposite direction.
Rubrius Fabatus was put under surveillance, on a suspicion that, in despair
of the fortunes of Rome, he meant to throw himself on the mercy of the
Parthians. He was, at any rate, found near the Straits of the Sicily, and,
when dragged back by a centurion, he assigned no adequate reason for his
long journey. Still, he lived on in safety, thanks to forgetfulness rather
than to mercy. 
[6.15] In the consulship of Servius
Galba and Lucius Sulla, the emperor, after having long considered whom
he was to choose to be husbands for his granddaughters, now that the maidens
were of marriageable age, selected Lucius Cassius and Marcus Vinicius.
Vinicius was of provincial descent; he was born at Cales, his father and
grandfather having been consuls, and his family, on the other side, being
of the rank of knights. He was a man of amiable temper and of cultivated
eloquence. Cassius was of an ancient and honourable, though plebeian house,
at Rome. Though he was brought up by his father under a severe training,
he won esteem more frequently by his good-nature than by his diligence.
To him and to Vinicius the emperor married respectively Drusilla and Julia,
Germanicus's daughters, and addressed a letter on the subject to the Senate,
with a slightly complimentary mention of the young men. He next assigned
some very vague reasons for his absence, then passed to more important
matters, the ill-will against him originating in his state policy, and
requested that Macro, who commanded the praetorians, with a few tribunes
and centurions, might accompany him whenever he entered the Senate-house.
But though a decree was voted by the Senate on a liberal scale and without
any restrictions as to rank or numbers, he never so much as went near the
walls of Rome, much less the State-council, for he would often go round
and avoid his native city by circuitous routes. 
[6.16] Meanwhile a powerful host of
accusers fell with sudden fury on the class which systematically increased
its wealth by usury in defiance of a law passed by Caesar the Dictator
defining the terms of lending money and of holding estates in Italy, a
law long obsolete because the public good is sacrificed to private interest.
The curse of usury was indeed of old standing in Rome and a most frequent
cause of sedition and discord, and it was therefore repressed even in the
early days of a less corrupt morality. First, the Twelve Tables prohibited
any one from exacting more than 10 per cent., when, previously, the rate
had depended on the caprice of the wealthy. Subsequently, by a bill brought
in by the tribunes, interest was reduced to half that amount, and finally
compound interest was wholly forbidden. A check too was put by several
enactments of the people on evasions which, though continually put down,
still, through strange artifices, reappeared. On this occasion, however,
Gracchus, the praetor, to whose jurisdiction the inquiry had fallen, felt
himself compelled by the number of persons endangered to refer the matter
to the Senate. In their dismay the senators, not one of whom was free from
similar guilt, threw themselves on the emperor's indulgence. He yielded,
and a year and six months were granted, within which every one was to settle
his private accounts conformably to the requirements of the law. 
[6.17] Hence followed a scarcity of
money, a great shock being given to all credit, the current coin too, in
consequence of the conviction of so many persons and the sale of their
property, being locked up in the imperial treasury or the public exchequer.
To meet this, the Senate had directed that every creditor should have two-thirds
his capital secured on estates in Italy. Creditors however were suing for
payment in full, and it was not respectable for persons when sued to break
faith. So, at first, there were clamorous meetings and importunate entreaties;
then noisy applications to the praetor's court. And the very device intended
as a remedy, the sale and purchase of estates, proved the contrary, as
the usurers had hoarded up all their money for buying land. The facilities
for selling were followed by a fall of prices, and the deeper a man was
in debt, the more reluctantly did he part with his property, and many were
utterly ruined. The destruction of private wealth precipitated the fall
of rank and reputation, till at last the emperor interposed his aid by
distributing throughout the banks a hundred million sesterces, and allowing
freedom to borrow without interest for three years, provided the borrower
gave security to the State in land to double the amount. Credit was thus
restored, and gradually private lenders were found. The purchase too of
estates was not carried out according to the letter of the Senate's decree,
rigour at the outset, as usual with such matters, becoming negligence in
the end. 
[6.18] Former alarms then returned,
as there was a charge of treason against Considius Proculus. While he was
celebrating his birthday without a fear, he was hurried before the Senate,
condemned and instantly put to death. His sister Sancia was outlawed, on
the accusation of Quintus Pomponius, a restless spirit, who pretended that
he employed himself in this and like practices to win favour with the sovereign,
and thereby alleviate the perils hanging over his brother Pomponius Secundus.
Pompeia Macrina too was sentenced to banishment. Her husband Argolicus
and her father-in-law Laco, leading men of Achaia, had been ruined by the
emperor. Her father likewise, an illustrious Roman knight, and her brother,
an ex-praetor, seeing their doom was near, destroyed themselves. It was
imputed to them as a crime that their great-grandfather Theophanes of Mitylene
had been one of the intimate friends of Pompey the Great, and that after
his death Greek flattery had paid him divine honours. 
[6.19] Sextus Marius, the richest man
in Spain, was next accused of incest with his daughter, and thrown headlong
from the Tarpeian rock. To remove any doubt that the vastness of his wealth
had proved the man's ruin, Tiberius kept his gold-mines for himself, though
they were forfeited to the State. Executions were now a stimulus to his
fury, and he ordered the death of all who were lying in prison under accusation
of complicity with Sejanus. There lay, singly or in heaps, the unnumbered
dead, of every age and sex, the illustrious with the obscure. Kinsfolk
and friends were not allowed to be near them, to weep over them, or even
to gaze on them too long. Spies were set round them, who noted the sorrow
of each mourner and followed the rotting corpses, till they were dragged
to the Tiber, where, floating or driven on the bank, no one dared to burn
or to touch them. The force of terror had utterly extinguished the sense
of human fellowship, and, with the growth of cruelty, pity was thrust aside.

[6.20] About this time Caius Caesar,
who became his grandfather's companion on his retirement to Capreae, married
Claudia, daughter of Marcus Silanus. He was a man who masked a savage temper
under an artful guise of self-restraint, and neither his mother's doom
nor the banishment of his brothers extorted from him a single utterance.
Whatever the humour of the day with Tiberius, he would assume the like,
and his language differed as little. Hence the fame of a clever remark
from the orator Passienus, that "there never was a better slave or
a worse master." I must not pass over a prognostication of Tiberius
respecting Servius Galba, then consul. Having sent for him and sounded
him on various topics, he at last addressed him in Greek to this effect:
"You too, Galba, will some day have a taste of empire." He thus
hinted at a brief span of power late in life, on the strength of his acquaintance
with the art of astrologers, leisure for acquiring which he had had at
Rhodes, with Thrasyllus for instructor. This man's skill he tested in the
following manner. 
[6.21] Whenever he sought counsel on
such matters, he would make use of the top of the house and of the confidence
of one freedman, quite illiterate and of great physical strength. The man
always walked in front of the person whose science Tiberius had determined
to test, through an unfrequented and precipitous path (for the house stood
on rocks), and then, if any suspicion had arisen of imposture or of trickery,
he hurled the astrologer, as he returned, into the sea beneath, that no
one might live to betray the secret. Thrasyllus accordingly was led up
the same cliffs, and when he had deeply impressed his questioner by cleverly
revealing his imperial destiny and future career, he was asked whether
he had also thoroughly ascertained his own horoscope, and the character
of that particular year and day. After surveying the positions and relative
distances of the stars, he first paused, then trembled, and the longer
he gazed, the more was he agitated by amazement and terror, till at last
he exclaimed that a perilous and well-nigh fatal crisis impended over him.
Tiberius then embraced him and congratulated him on foreseeing his dangers
and on being quite safe. Taking what he had said as an oracle, he retained
him in the number of his intimate friends. 
[6.22] When I hear of these and like
occurrences, I suspend my judgment on the question whether it is fate and
unchangeable necessity or chance which governs the revolutions of human
affairs. Indeed, among the wisest of the ancients and among their disciples
you will find conflicting theories, many holding the conviction that heaven
does not concern itself with the beginning or the end of our life, or,
in short, with mankind at all; and that therefore sorrows are continually
the lot of the good, happiness of the wicked; while others, on the contrary,
believe that though there is a harmony between fate and events, yet it
is not dependent on wandering stars, but on primary elements, and on a
combination of natural causes. Still, they leave us the capacity of choosing
our life, maintaining that, the choice once made, there is a fixed sequence
of events. Good and evil, again, are not what vulgar opinion accounts them;
many who seem to be struggling with adversity are happy; many, amid great
affluence, are utterly miserable, if only the first bear their hard lot
with patience, and the latter make a foolish use of their prosperity. Most
men, however, cannot part with the belief that each person's future is
fixed from his very birth, but that some things happen differently from
what has been foretold through the impostures of those who describe what
they do not know, and that this destroys the credit of a science, clear
testimonies to which have been given both by past ages and by our own.
In fact, how the son of this same Thrasyllus predicted Nero's reign I shall
relate when the time comes, not to digress too far from my subject. 
[6.23] That same year the death of
Asinius Gallus became known. That he died of starvation, there was not
a doubt; whether of his own choice or by compulsion, was a question. The
emperor was asked whether he would allow him to be buried, and he blushed
not to grant the favour, and actually blamed the accident which had proved
fatal to the accused before he could be convicted in his presence. Just
as if in a three years' interval an opportunity was wanting for the trial
of an old ex-consul and the father of a number of ex-consuls. Next Drusus
perished, after having prolonged life for eight days on the most wretched
of food, even chewing the stuffing, his bed. According to some writers,
Macro had been instructed that, in case of Sejanus attempting an armed
revolt, he was to hurry the young prince out of the confinement in which
he was detained in the Palace and put him at the head of the people. Subsequently
the emperor, as a rumour was gaining ground that he was on the point of
a reconciliation with his daughter-in-law and his grandson, chose to be
merciless rather than to relent. 
[6.24] He even bitterly reviled him
after his death, taunting him with nameless abominations and with a spirit
bent on his family's ruin and hostile to the State. And, what seemed most
horrible of all, he ordered a daily journal of all that he said and did
to be read in public. That there had been spies by his side for so many
years, to note his looks, his sighs, and even his whispered thoughts, and
that his grandfather could have heard read, and published all, was scarce
credible. But letters of Attius, a centurion, and Didymus, a freedman,
openly exhibited the names of slave after slave who had respectively struck
or scared Drusus as he was quitting his chamber. The centurion had actually
added, as something highly meritorious, his own language in all its brutality,
and some utterances of the dying man in which, at first feigning loss of
reason, he imprecated in seeming madness fearful things on Tiberius, and
then, when hope of life was gone, denounced him with a studied and elaborate
curse. "As he had slain a daughter-in-law, a brother's son, and son's
sons, and filled his whole house with bloodshed, so might he pay the full
penalty due to the name and race of his ancestors as well as to future
generations." The Senate clamorously interrupted, with an affectation
of horror, but they were penetrated by alarm and amazement at seeing that
a hitherto cunning prince, who had shrouded his wickedness in mystery,
had waxed so bold as to remove, so to speak, the walls of his house and
display his grandson under a centurion's lash, amid the buffetings of slaves,
craving in vain the last sustenance of life. 
[6.25] Men's grief at all this had
not died away when news was heard of Agrippina. She had lived on, sustained
by hope, I suppose, after the destruction of Sejanus, and, when she found
no abatement of horrors, had voluntarily perished, though possibly nourishment
was refused her and a fiction concocted of a death that might seem self-chosen.
Tiberius, it is certain, vented his wrath in the foulest charges. He reproached
her with unchastity, with having had Asinius Gallus as a paramour and being
driven by his death to loathe existence. But Agrippina, who could not endure
equality and loved to domineer, was with her masculine aspirations far
removed from the frailties of women. The emperor further observed that
she died on the same day on which Sejanus had paid the penalty of his crime
two years before, a fact, he said, to be recorded; and he made it a boast
that she had not been strangled by the halter and flung down the Gemonian
steps. He received a vote of thanks, and it was decreed that on the seventeenth
of October, the day on which both perished, through all future years, an
offering should be consecrated to Jupiter. 
[6.26] Soon afterwards Cocceius Nerva,
a man always at the emperor's side, a master of law both divine and human,
whose position was secure and health sound, resolved to die. Tiberius,
as soon as he knew it, sat by him and asked his reasons, adding intreaties,
and finally protesting that it would be a burden on his conscience and
a blot on his reputation, if the most intimate of his friends were to fly
from life without any cause for death. Nerva turned away from his expostulations
and persisted in his abstinence from all food. Those who knew his thoughts
said that as he saw more closely into the miseries of the State, he chose,
in anger and alarm, an honourable death, while he was yet safe and unassailed
on. Meanwhile Agrippina's ruin, strange to say, dragged Plancina with it.
Formerly the wife of Cneius Piso, and one who had openly exulted at the
death of Germanicus, she had been saved, when Piso fell, by the intreaties
of Augusta, and not less by the enmity of Agrippina. When hatred and favour
had alike passed away, justice asserted itself. Pursued by charges universally
notorious, she suffered by her own hand a penalty tardy rather than undeserved.

[6.27] Amid the many sorrows which
saddened Rome, one cause of grief was the marriage of Julia, Drusus's daughter
and Nero's late wife, into the humbler family of Rubellius Blandus, whose
grandfather many remembered as a Roman knight from Tibur. At the end of
the year the death of Aelius Lamia, who, after being at last released from
the farce of governing Syria, had become city-prefect, was celebrated with
the honours of a censor's funeral. He was a man of illustrious descent,
and in a hale old age; and the fact of the province having been withheld
gained him additional esteem. Subsequently, on the death of Flaccus Pomponius,
propraetor of Syria, a letter from the emperor was read, in which he complained
that all the best men who were fit to command armies declined the service,
and that he was thus necessarily driven to intreaties, by which some of
the ex-consuls might be prevailed on to take provinces. He forgot that
Arruntius had been kept at home now for ten years, that he might not go
to Spain. That same year Marcus Lepidus also died. I have dwelt at sufficient
length on his moderation and wisdom in my earlier books, and I need not
further enlarge on his noble descent. Assuredly the family of the Aemilii
has been rich in good citizens, and even the members of that house whose
morals were corrupt, still lived with a certain splendour. 
[6.28] During the consulship of Paulus
Fabius and Lucius Vitellius, the bird called the phoenix, after a long
succession of ages, appeared in Egypt and furnished the most learned men
of that country and of Greece with abundant matter for the discussion of
the marvellous phenomenon. It is my wish to make known all on which they
agree with several things, questionable enough indeed, but not too absurd
to be noticed. That it is a creature sacred to the sun, differing from
all other birds in its beak and in the tints of its plumage, is held unanimously
by those who have described its nature. As to the number of years it lives,
there are various accounts. The general tradition says five hundred years.
Some maintain that it is seen at intervals of fourteen hundred and sixty-one
years, and that the former birds flew into the city called Heliopolis successively
in the reigns of Sesostris, Amasis, and Ptolemy, the third king of the
Macedonian dynasty, with a multitude of companion birds marvelling at the
novelty of the appearance. But all antiquity is of course obscure. From
Ptolemy to Tiberius was a period of less than five hundred years. Consequently
some have supposed that this was a spurious phoenix, not from the regions
of Arabia, and with none of the instincts which ancient tradition has attributed
to the bird. For when the number of years is completed and death is near,
the phoenix, it is said, builds a nest in the land of its birth and infuses
into it a germ of life from which an offspring arises, whose first care,
when fledged, is to bury its father. This is not rashly done, but taking
up a load of myrrh and having tried its strength by a long flight, as soon
as it is equal to the burden and to the journey, it carries its father's
body, bears it to the altar of the Sun, and leaves it to the flames. All
this is full of doubt and legendary exaggeration. Still, there is no question
that the bird is occasionally seen in Egypt. 
[6.29] Rome meanwhile being a scene
of ceaseless bloodshed, Pomponius Labeo, who was, as I have related, governor
of Moesia, severed his veins and let his life ebb from him. His wife, Paxaea,
emulated her husband. What made such deaths eagerly sought was dread of
the executioner, and the fact too that the condemned, besides forfeiture
of their property, were deprived of burial, while those who decided their
fate themselves, had their bodies interred, and their wills remained valid,
a recompense this for their despatch. The emperor, however, argued in a
letter to the Senate that it had been the practice of our ancestors, whenever
they broke off an intimacy, to forbid the person their house, and so put
an end to friendship. "This usage he had himself revived in Labeo's
case, but Labeo, being pressed by charges of maladministration in his province
and other crimes, had screened his guilt by bringing odium on another,
and had groundlessly alarmed his wife, who, though criminal, was still
free from danger." Mamercus Scaurus was then for the second time impeached,
a man of distinguished rank and ability as an advocate, but of infamous
life. He fell, not through the friendship of Sejanus, but through what
was no less powerful to destroy, the enmity of Macro, who practised the
same arts more secretly. Macro's information was grounded on the subject
of a tragedy written by Scaurus, from which he cited some verses which
might be twisted into allusions to Tiberius. But Servilius and Cornelius,
his accusers, alleged adultery with Livia and the practice of magical rites.
Scaurus, as befitted the old house of the Aemilii, forestalled the fatal
sentence at the persuasion of his wife Sextia, who urged him to die and
shared his death. 
[6.30] Still the informers were punished
when ever an opportunity occurred. Servilius and Cornelius, for example,
whom the destruction of Scaurus had made notorious, were outlawed and transported
to some islands for having taken money from Varius Ligur for dropping a
prosecution. Abudius Ruso too, who had been an aedile, in seeking to imperil
Lentulus Gaetulicus, under whom he had commanded a legion, by alleging
that he had fixed on a son of Sejanus for his son-in-law, was himself actually
condemned and banished from Rome. Gaetulicus at this time was in charge
of the legions of Upper Germany, and had won from them singular affection,
as a man of unbounded kindliness, moderate in his strictness, and popular
even with the neighbouring army through his father-in-law, Lucius Apronius.
Hence rumour persistently affirmed that he had ventured to send the emperor
a letter, reminding him that his alliance with Sejanus had not originated
in his own choice, but in the advice of Tiberius; that he was himself as
liable to be deceived as Tiberius, and that the same mistake ought not
to be held innocent in the prince and be a source of ruin to others. His
loyalty was still untainted and would so remain, if he was not assaIled
by any plot. A successor he should accept as an announcement of his doom.
A compact, so to say, ought to be sealed between them, by which he should
retain his province, and the emperor be master of all else. Strange as
this story was, it derived credibility from the fact that Gaetulicus alone
of all connected with Sejanus lived in safety and in high favour, Tiberius
bearing in mind the people's hatred, his own extreme age how his government
rested more on prestige than on power. 
[6.31] In the consulship of Caius Cestius
and Marcus Servilius, some Parthian nobles came to Rome without the knowledge
of their king Artabanus. Dread of Germanicus had made that prince faithful
to the Romans and just to his people, but he subsequently changed this
behaviour for insolence towards us and tyranny to his subjects. He was
elated by the wars which he had successfully waged against the surrounding
nations, while he disdained the aged and, as he thought, unwarlike Tiberius,
eagerly coveting Armenia, over which, on the death of Artaxias, he placed
Arsaces, his eldest son. He further added insult, and sent envoys to reclaim
the treasures left by Vonones in Syria and Cilicia. Then too he insisted
on the ancient boundaries of Persia and Macedonia, and intimated, with
a vainglorious threat, that he meant to seize on the country possessed
by Cyrus and afterwards by Alexander. The chief adviser of the Parthians
in sending the secret embassy was Sinnaces, a man of distinguished family
and corresponding wealth. Next in influence was Abdus, an eunuch, a class
which, far from being despised among barbarians, actually possesses power.
These, with some other nobles whom they admitted to their counsels, as
there was not a single Arsacid whom they could put on the throne, most
of the family having been murdered by Artabanus or being under age, demanded
that Phraates, son of king Phraates, should be sent from Rome. "Only
a name," they said, "and an authority were wanted; only, in fact,
that, with Caesar's consent, a scion of the house of Arsaces should show
himself on the banks of the Euphrates." 
[6.32] This suited the wishes of Tiberius.
He provided Phraates with what he needed for assuming his father's sovereignty,
while he clung to his purpose of regulating foreign affairs by a crafty
policy and keeping war at a distance. Artabanus meanwhile, hearing of the
treacherous arrangement, was one moment perplexed by apprehension, the
next fired with a longing for revenge. With barbarians, indecision is a
slave's weakness; prompt action king-like. But now expediency prevailed,
and he invited Abdus, under the guise of friendship, to a banquet, and
disabled him by a lingering poison; Sinnaces he put off by pretexts and
presents, and also by various employments. Phraates meanwhile, on arriving
in Syria, where he threw off the Roman fashions to which for so many years
he had been accustomed, and adapted himself to Parthian habits, unable
to endure the customs of his country, was carried off by an illness. Still,
Tiberius did not relinquish his purpose. He chose Tiridates, of the same
stock as Artabanus, to be his rival, and the Iberian Mithridates to be
the instrument of recovering Armenia, having reconciled him to his brother
Pharasmanes, who held the throne of that country. He then intrusted the
whole of his eastern policy to Lucius Vitellius. The man, I am aware, had
a bad name at Rome, and many a foul story was told of him. But in the government
of provinces he acted with the virtue of ancient times. He returned, and
then, through fear of Caius Caesar and intimacy with Claudius, he degenerated
into a servility so base that he is regarded by an after-generation as
the type of the most degrading adulation. The beginning of his career was
forgotten in its end, and an old age of infamy effaced the virtues of youth.

[6.33] Of the petty chiefs Mithridates
was the first to persuade Pharasmanes to aid his enterprise by stratagem
and force, and agents of corruption were found who tempted the servants
of Arsaces into crime by a quantity of gold. At the same instant the Iberians
burst into Armenia with a huge host, and captured the city of Artaxata.
Artabanus, on hearing this, made his son Orodes the instrument of vengeance.
He gave him the Parthian army and despatched men to hire auxiliaries. Pharasmanes,
on the other hand, allied himself with the Albanians, and procured aid
from the Sarmatae, whose highest chiefs took bribes from both sides, after
the fashion of their countrymen, and engaged themselves in conflicting
interests. But the Iberians, who were masters of the various positions,
suddenly poured the Sarmatae into Armenia by the Caspian route. Meanwhile
those who were coming up to the support of the Parthians were easily kept
back, all other approaches having been closed by the enemy except one,
between the sea and the mountains on the Albanian frontier, which summer
rendered difficult, as there the shallows are flooded by the force of the
Etesian gales. The south wind in winter rolls back the waves, and when
the sea is driven back upon itself, the shallows along the coast, are exposed.

[6.34] Meantime, while Orodes was without
an ally, Pharasmanes, now strengthened by reinforcements, challenged him
to battle, taunted him on his refusal, rode up to his camp and harassed
his foraging parties. He often hemmed him in with his picquets in the fashion
of a blockade, till the Parthians, who were unused to such insults, gathered
round the king and demanded battle. Their sole strength was in cavalry;
Pharasmanes was also powerful in infantry, for the Iberians and Albanians,
inhabiting as they did a densely wooded country, were more inured to hardship
and endurance. They claim to have been descended from the Thessalians,
at the period when Jason, after the departure of Medea and the children
born of her, returned subsequently to the empty palace of Aeetes, and the
vacant kingdom of Colchi. They have many traditions connected with his
name and with the oracle of Phrixus. No one among them would think of sacrificing
a ram, the animal supposed to have conveyed Phrixus, whether it was really
a ram or the figure-head of a ship. Both sides having been drawn up in
battle array, the Parthian leader expatiated on the empire of the East,
and the renown of the Arsacids, in contrast to the despicable Iberian chief
with his hireling soldiery. Pharasmanes reminded his people that they had
been free from Parthian domination, and that the grander their aims, the
more glory they would win if victorious, the more disgrace and peril they
would incur if they turned their backs. He pointed, as he spoke, to his
own menacing array, and to the Median bands with their golden embroidery;
warriors, as he said, on one side, spoil on the other. 
[6.35] Among the Sarmatae the general's
voice was not alone to be heard. They encouraged one another not to begin
the battle with volleys of arrows; they must, they said, anticipate attack
by a hand to hand charge. Then followed every variety of conflict. The
Parthians, accustomed to pursue or fly with equal science, deployed their
squadrons, and sought scope for their missiles. The Sarmatae, throwing
aside their bows, which at a shorter range are effective, rushed on with
pikes and swords. Sometimes, as in a cavalry-action, there would be alternate
advances and retreats, then, again, close fighting, in which, breast to
breast, with the clash of arms, they repulsed the foe or were themselves
repulsed. And now the Albanians and Iberians seized, and hurled the Parthians
from their steeds, and embarrassed their enemy with a double attack, pressed
as they were by the cavalry on the heights and by the nearer blows of the
infantry. Meanwhile Pharasmanes and Orodes, who, as they cheered on the
brave and supported the wavering, were conspicuous to all, and so recognised
each other, rushed to the combat with a shout, with javelins, and galloping
chargers, Pharasmanes with the greater impetuosity, for he pierced his
enemy's helmet at a stroke. But he could not repeat the blow, as he was
hurried onwards by his horse, and the wounded man was protected by the
bravest of his guards. A rumour that he was slain, which was believed by
mistake, struck panic into the Parthians, and they yielded the victory.

[6.36] Artabanus very soon marched
with the whole strength of his kingdom, intent on vengeance. The Iberians
from their knowledge of the country fought at an advantage. Still Artabanus
did not retreat till Vitellius had assembled his legions and, by starting
a report that he meant to invade Mesopotamia, raised an alarm of war with
Rome. Armenia was then abandoned, and the fortunes of Artabanus were overthrown,
Vitellius persuading his subjects to forsake a king who was a tyrant in
peace, and ruinously unsuccessful in war. And so Sinnaces, whose enmity
to the prince I have already mentioned, drew into actual revolt his father
Abdageses and others, who had been secretly in his counsel, and were now
after their continued disasters more eager to fight. By degrees, many flocked
to him who, having been kept in subjection by fear rather than by goodwill,
took courage as soon as they found leaders. Artabanus had now no resources
but in some foreigners who guarded his person, men exiled from their own
homes, who had no perception of honour, or any scruple about a base act,
mere hireling instruments of crime. With these attendants he hastened his
flight into the remote country on the borders of Scythia, in the hope of
aid, as he was connected by marriage alliances with the Hyrcanians and
Carmanians. Meantime the Parthians, he thought, indulgent as they are to
an absent prince, though restless under his presence, might turn to a better
mind. 
[6.37] Vitellius, as soon as Artabanus
had fled and his people were inclined to have a new king, urged Tiridates
to seize the advantage thus offered, and then led the main strength of
the legions and the allies to the banks of the Euphrates. While they were
sacrificing, the one, after Roman custom, offering a swine, a ram and a
bull; the other, a horse which he had duly prepared as a propitiation to
the river-god, they were informed by the neighbouring inhabitants that
the Euphrates, without any violent rains, was of itself rising to an immense
height, and that the white foam was curling into circles like a diadem,
an omen of a prosperous passage. Some explained it with more subtlety,
of a successful commencement to the enterprise, which, however, would not
be lasting, on the ground, that though a confident trust might be placed
in prognostics given in the earth or in the heavens, the fluctuating character
of rivers exhibited omens which vanished the same moment. A bridge of boats
having been constructed and the army having crossed, the first to enter
the camp was Ornospades, with several thousand cavalry. Formerly an exile,
he had rendered conspicuous aid to Tiberius in the completion of the Dalmatic
war, and had for this been rewarded with Roman citizenship. Subsequently,
he had again sought the friendship of his king, by whom he had been raised
to high honour, and appointed governor of the plains, which, being surrounded
by the waters of those famous rivers, the Euphrates and Tigris, have received
the name of Mesopotamia. Soon afterwards, Sinnaces reinforced the army,
and Abdageses, the mainstay of the party, came with the royal treasure
and what belonged to the crown. Vitellius thought it enough to have displayed
the arms of Rome, and he then bade Tiridates remember his grandfather Phraates,
and his foster-father Caesar, and all that was glorious in both of them,
while the nobles were to show obedience to their king, and respect for
us, each maintaining his honour and his loyalty. This done, he returned
with the legions to Syria. 
[6.38] I have related in sequence the
events of two summer-campaigns, as a relief to the reader's mind from our
miseries at home. Though three years had elapsed since the destruction
of Sejanus, neither time, intreaties, nor sated gratification, all which
have a soothing effect on others, softened Tiberius, or kept him from punishing
doubtful or forgotten offenses as most flagrant and recent crimes. Under
this dread, Fulcinius Trio, unwilling to face an onslaught of accusers,
inserted in his will several terrible imputations on Macro and on the emperor's
principal freedmen, while he taunted the emperor himself with the mental
decay of old age, and the virtual exile of continuous retirement. Tiberius
ordered these insults, which Trio's heirs had suppressed, to be publicly
read, thus showing his tolerance of free speech in others and despising
his own shame, or, possibly, because he had long been ignorant of the villanies
of Sejanus, and now wished any remarks, however reckless, to published,
and so to ascertain, through invective, if it must be so, the truth, which
flattery obscures. About the same time Granius Marcianus, a senator, who
was accused of treason by Caius Gracchus, laid hands on himself. Tarius
Gratianus too, an ex-praetor, was condemned under the same law to capital
punishment. 
[6.39] A similar fate befell Trebellienus
Rufus and Sextius Paconianus. Trebellienus perished by his own hand; Paconianus
was strangled in prison for having there written some lampoons on the emperor.
Tiberius received the news, no longer parted by the sea, as he had been
once, or through messengers from a distance, but in close proximity to
Rome, so that on the same day, or after the interval of a single night,
he could reply to the despatches of the consuls, and almost behold the
bloodshed as it streamed from house to house, and the strokes of the executioner.
At the year's close Poppaeus Sabinus died, a man of somewhat humble extraction,
who had risen by his friendship with two emperors to the consulship and
the honours of a triumph. During twenty-four years he had the charge of
the most important provinces, not for any remarkable ability, but because
he was equal to business and was not too great for it. 
[6.40] Quintus Plautius and Sextus
Papinius were the next consuls. The fact that that year Lucius Aruseius
was put to death did not strike men as anything horrible, from their familiarity
with evil deeds. But there was a panic when Vibulenus Agrippa, a Roman
knight, as soon as his accusers had finished their case, took from his
robe, in the very Senate-house, a dose of poison, drank it off, and, as
he fell expiring, was hurried away to prison by the prompt hands of lictors,
where the neck of the now lifeless man was crushed with the halter. Even
Tigranes, who had once ruled Armenia and was now impeached, did not escape
the punishment of an ordinary citizen on the strength of his royal title.
Caius Galba meanwhile and the Blaesi perished by a voluntary death; Galba,
because a harsh letter from the emperor forbade him to have a province
allotted to him; while, as for the Blaesi, the priesthoods intended for
them during the prosperity of their house, Tiberius had withheld, when
that prosperity was shaken, and now conferred, as vacant offices, on others.
This they understood as a signal of their doom, and acted on it. Aemilia
Lepida too, whose marriage with the younger Drusus I have already related,
who, though she had pursued her husband with ceaseless accusations, remained
unpunished, infamous as she was, as long as her father Lepidus lived, subsequently
fell a victim to the informers for adultery with a slave. There was no
question about her guilt, and so without an attempt at defence she put
an end to her life. 
[6.41] At this same time the Clitae,
a tribe subject to the Cappadocian Archelaus, retreated to the heights
of Mount Taurus, because they were compelled in Roman fashion to render
an account of their revenue and submit to tribute. There they defended
themselves by means of the nature of the country against the king's unwarlike
troops, till Marcus Trebellius, whom Vitellius, the governor of Syria,
sent as his lieutenant with four thousand legionaries and some picked auxiliaries,
surrounded with his lines two hills occupied by the barbarians, the lesser
of which was named Cadra, the other Davara. Those who dared to sally out,
he reduced to surrender by the sword, the rest by drought. Tiridates meanwhile,
with the consent of the Parthians, received the submission of Nicephorium,
Anthemusias and the other cities, which having been founded by Macedonians,
claim Greek names, also of the Parthian towns Halus and Artemita. There
was a rivalry of joy among the inhabitants who detested Artabanus, bred
as he had been among the Scythians, for his cruelty, and hoped to find
in Tiridates a kindly spirit from his Roman training. 
[6.42] Seleucia, a powerful and fortified
city which had never lapsed into barbarism, but had clung loyally to its
founder Seleucus, assumed the most marked tone of flattery. Three hundred
citizens, chosen for wealth or wisdom, form a kind of senate, and the people
have powers of their own. When both act in concert, they look with contempt
on the Parthians; as soon as they are at discord, and the respective leaders
invite aid for themselves against their rivals, the ally summoned to help
a faction crushes them all. This had lately happened in the reign of Artabanus,
who, for his own interest, put the people at the mercy of the nobles. As
a fact, popular government almost amounts to freedom, while the rule of
the few approaches closely to a monarch's caprice. Seleucia now celebrated
the arrival of Tiridates with all the honours paid to princes of old and
all which modern times, with a more copious inventiveness, have devised.
Reproaches were at the same time heaped on Artabanus, as an Arsacid indeed
on his mother's side, but as in all else degenerate. Tiridates gave the
government of Seleucia to the people. Soon afterwards, as he was deliberating
on what day he should inaugurate his reign, he received letters from Phraates
and Hiero, who held two very powerful provinces, imploring a brief delay.
It was thought best to wait for men of such commanding influence, and meanwhile
Ctesiphon, the seat of empire, was their chosen destination. But as they
postponed their coming from day to day, the Surena, in the presence of
an approving throng, crowned Tiridates, according to the national usage,
with the royal diadem. 
[6.43] And now had he instantly made
his way to the heart of the country and to its other tribes, the reluctance
of those who wavered, would have been overpowered, and all to a man would
have yielded. By besieging a fortress into which Artabanus had conveyed
his treasure and his concubines, he gave them time to disown their compact.
Phraates and Hiero, with others who had not united in celebrating the day
fixed for the coronation, some from fear, some out of jealousy of Abdageses,
who then ruled the court and the new king, transferred their allegiance
to Artabanus. They found him in Hyrcania, covered with filth and procuring
sustenance with his bow. He was at first alarmed under the impression that
treachery was intended, but when they pledged their honour that they had
come to restore to him his dominion, his spirit revived, and he asked what
the sudden change meant. Hiero then spoke insultingly of the boyish years
of Tiridates, hinting that the throne was not held by an Arsacid, but that
a mere empty name was enjoyed by a feeble creature bred in foreign effeminacy,
while the actual power was in the house of Abdageses. 
[6.44] An experienced king, Artabanus
knew that men do not necessarily feign hatred because they are false in
friendship. He delayed only while he was raising auxiliaries in Scythia,
and then pushed on in haste, thus anticipating the plots of enemies and
the fickleness of friends. Wishing to attract popular sympathy, he did
not even cast off his miserable garb. He stooped to wiles and to entreaties,
to anything indeed by which he might allure the wavering and confirm the
willing. He was now approaching the neighbourhood of Seleucia with a large
force, while Tiridates, dismayed by the rumour. and then by the king's
presence in person, was divided in mind, and doubted whether he should
march against him or prolong the war by delay. Those who wished for battle
with its prompt decision argued that ill-arrayed levies fatigued by a long
march could not even in heart be thoroughly united in obedience, traitors
and enemies as they had lately been, to the prince whom now again they
were supporting. Abdageses, however, advised a retreat into Mesopotamia.
There, with a river in their front, they might in the interval summon to
their aid the Armenians and Elymaeans and other nations in their rear,
and then, reinforced by allies and troops which would be sent by the Roman
general, they might try the fortune of war. This advice prevailed, for
Abdageses had the chief influence and Tiridates was a coward in the face
of danger. But their retreat resembled a flight. The Arabs made a beginning,
and then the rest went to their homes or to the camp of Artabanus, till
Tiridates returned to Syria with a few followers and thus relieved all
from the disgrace of desertion. 
[6.45] That same year Rome suffered
from a terrible fire, and part of the circus near the Aventine hill was
burnt, as well as the Aventine quarter itself. This calamity the emperor
turned to his own glory by paying the values of the houses and blocks of
tenements. A hundred million of sesterces was expended in this munificence,
a boon all the more acceptable to the populace, as Tiberius was rather
sparing in building at his private expense. He raised only two structures
even at the public cost, the temple of Augustus and the stage of Pompey's
theatre, and when these were completed, he did not dedicate them, either
out of contempt for popularity or from his extreme age. Four commissioners,
all husbands of the emperor's granddaughters- Cneius Domitius, Cassius
Longinus, Marcus Vinicius, Rubellius Blandus- were appointed to assess
the damage in each case, and Publius Petronius was added to their number
on the nomination of the consuls. Various honours were devised and decreed
to the emperor such as each man's ingenuity suggested. It is a question
which of these he rejected or accepted, as the end of his life was so near.
For soon afterwards Tiberius's last consuls, Cneius Acerronius and Caius
Pontius, entered on office, Macro's power being now excessive. Every day
the man cultivated more assiduously than ever the favour of Caius Caesar,
which, indeed, he had never neglected, and after the death of Claudia,
who had, as I have related, been married to Caius, he had prompted his
wife Ennia to inveigle the young prince by a pretence of love, and to bind
him by an engagement of marriage, and the lad, provided he could secure
the throne, shrank from no conditions. For though he was of an excitable
temper, he had thoroughly learnt the falsehoods of hypocrisy under the
loving care of his grandfather. 
[6.46] This the emperor knew, and he
therefore hesitated about bequeathing the empire, first, between his grandsons.
Of these, the son of Drusus was nearest in blood and natural affection,
but he was still in his childhood. Germanicus's son was in the vigour of
youth and enjoyed the people's favour, a reason for having his grandfather's
hatred. Tiberius had even thought of Claudius, as he was of sedate age
and had a taste for liberal culture, but a weak intellect was against him.
If however he were to seek a successor outside of his house, he feared
that the memory of Augustus and the name of the Caesars would become a
laughing-stock and a scorn. It was, in fact, not so much popularity in
the present for which he cared as for glory in the future. Perplexed in
mind, exhausted in body, he soon left to destiny a question to which he
was unequal, though he threw out some hints from which it might be inferred
that he foresaw what was to come. He taunted Macro, in no obscure terms,
with forsaking the setting and looking to the rising sun. Once too when
Caius Caesar in a casual conversation ridiculed Lucius Sulla, he predicted
to him that he would have all Sulla's vices and none of his virtues. At
the same moment he embraced the younger of his two grandsons with a flood
of tears, and, noting the savage face of the other, said, "You will
slay this boy, and will be yourself slain by another." But even while
his strength was fast failing he gave up none of his debaucheries. In his
sufferings he would simulate health, and was wont to jest at the arts of
the physician and at all who, after the age of thirty, require another
man's advice to distinguish between what is beneficial or hurtful to their
constitutions. 
[6.47] At Rome meanwhile were being
sown the seeds of bloodshed to come even after Tiberius's death. Acutia,
formerly the wife of Publius Vitellius, had been accused of treason by
Laelius Balbus. When on her condemnation a reward was being voted to her
prosecutor, Junius Otho, tribune of the people, interposed his veto. Hence
a feud between Vitellius and Otho, ending in Otho's banishment. Then Albucilla,
notorious for the number of her lovers, who had been married to Satrius
Secundus, the betrayer of the late conspiracy, was charged with irreverence
towards the emperor. With her were involved as her accomplices and paramours
Cneius Domitius, Vibius Marsus and Lucius Arruntius. I have already spoken
of the illustrious rank of Domitius. Marsus too was distinguished by the
honours of his ancestors and by his own attainments. It was, however, stated
in the notes of the proceedings furnished to the Senate that Macro had
superintended the examination of the witnesses and the torture of the slaves,
and the fact that there was no letter from the emperor against the defendants
caused a suspicion that, while he was very feeble and possibly ignorant
of the matter, the charge was to a great extent invented to gratify Macro's
well-known enmity against Arruntius. 
[6.48] And so Domitius and Marsus prolonged
their lives, Domitius, preparing his defence, Marsus, having apparently
resolved on starvation. Arruntius, when his friends advised delay and temporising,
replied that "the same conduct was not becoming in all persons. He
had had enough of life, and all he regretted was that he had endured amid
scorn and peril an old age of anxious fears, long detested by Sejanus,
now by Macro, always, indeed, by some powerful minister, not for any fault,
but as a man who could not tolerate gross iniquities. Granted the possibility
of passing safely through the few last days of Tiberius. How was he to
be secure under the youth of the coming sovereign? Was it probable that,
when Tiberius with his long experience of affairs was, under the influence
of absolute power, wholly perverted and changed, Caius Caesar, who had
hardly completed his boyhood, was thoroughly ignorant and bred under the
vilest training, would enter on a better course, with Macro for his guide,
who having been selected for his superior wickedness, to crush Sejanus
had by yet more numerous crimes been the scourge of the State? He now foresaw
a still more galling slavery, and therefore sought to flee alike from the
past and from the impending future." While he thus spoke like a prophet,
he opened his veins. What followed will be a proof that Arruntius rightly
chose death. Albucilla, having stabbed herself with an ineffectual wound,
was by the Senate's order carried off to prison. Those who had ministered
to her profligacy, Carsidius Sacerdos, an ex-praetor, and Pontius Fregellanus
were sentenced, respectively, to transportation to an island and to loss
of a senator's rank. A like punishment was adjudged in the case of Laelius
Balbus, and, indeed, with intense satisfaction, as Balbus was noted for
his savage eloquence and his eagerness to assail the innocent. 
[6.49] About the same time Sextus Papinius,
who belonged to a family of consular rank, chose a sudden and shocking
death, by throwing himself from a height. The cause was ascribed to his
mother who, having been repeatedly repulsed in her overtures, had at last
by her arts and seductions driven him to an extremity from which he could
find no escape but death. She was accordingly put on her trial before the
Senate, and, although she grovelled at the knees of the senators and long
urged a parent's grief, the greater weakness of a woman's mind under such
an affliction and other sad and pitiful pleas of the same painful kind,
she was after all banished from Rome for ten years, till her younger son
would have passed the frail period of youth. 
[6.50] Tiberius's bodily powers were
now leaving him, but not his skill in dissembling. There was the same stern
spirit; he had his words and looks under strict control, and occasionally
would try to hide his weakness, evident as it was, by a forced politeness.
After frequent changes of place, he at last settled down on the promontory
of Misenum in a country-house once owned by Lucius Lucullus. There it was
noted, in this way, that he was drawing near his end. There was a physician,
distinguished in his profession, of the name of Charicles, usually employed,
not indeed to have the direction of the emperor's varying health, but to
put his advice at immediate disposal. This man, as if he were leaving on
business his own, clasped his hand, with a show of homage, and touched
his pulse. Tiberius noticed it. Whether he was displeased and strove the
more to hide his anger, is a question; at any rate, he ordered the banquet
to be renewed, and sat at the table longer than usual, by way, apparently,
of showing honour to his departing friend. Charicles, however, assured
Macro that his breath was failing and that he would not last more than
two days. All was at once hurry; there were conferences among those on
the spot and despatches to the generals and armies. On the 15th of March,
his breath failing, he was believed to have expired, and Caius Caesar was
going forth with a numerous throng of congratulating followers to take
the first possession of the empire, when suddenly news came that Tiberius
was recovering his voice and sight, and calling for persons to bring him
food to revive him from his faintness. Then ensued a universal panic, and
while the rest fled hither and thither, every one feigning grief or ignorance,
Caius Caesar, in silent stupor, passed from the highest hopes to the extremity
of apprehension. Macro, nothing daunted, ordered the old emperor to be
smothered under a huge heap of clothes, and all to quit the entrance-hall.

[6.51] And so died Tiberius, in the
seventy eighth year of his age. Nero was his father, and he was on both
sides descended from the Claudian house, though his mother passed by adoption,
first into the Livian, then into the Julian family. From earliest infancy,
perilous vicissitudes were his lot. Himself an exile, he was the companion
of a proscribed father, and on being admitted as a stepson into the house
of Augustus, he had to struggle with many rivals, so long as Marcellus
and Agrippa and, subsequently, Caius and Lucius Caesar were in their glory.
Again his brother Drusus enjoyed in a greater degree the affection of the
citizens. But he was more than ever on dangerous ground after his marriage
with Julia, whether he tolerated or escaped from his wife's profligacy.
On his return from Rhodes he ruled the emperor's now heirless house for
twelve years, and the Roman world, with absolute sway, for about twenty-three.
His character too had its distinct periods. It was a bright time in his
life and reputation, while under Augustus he was a private citizen or held
high offices; a time of reserve and crafty assumption of virtue, as long
as Germanicus and Drusus were alive. Again, while his mother lived, he
was a compound of good and evil; he was infamous for his cruelty, though
he veiled his debaucheries, while he loved or feared Sejanus. Finally,
he plunged into every wickedness and disgrace, when fear and shame being
cast off, he simply indulged his own inclinations. 
(The four following books and the beginning of Book XI, which are lost,
contained the history of a period of nearly ten years, from A.D. 37 to
A.D. 47. These years included the reign of Caius Caesar (Caligula), the
son of Germanicus by the elder Agrippina, and the first six years of the
reign of Claudius. Caius Caesar's reign was three years ten months and
eight days in duration. Claudius (Tiberius Claudius Drusus Nero Germanicus),
the brother of Germanicus, succeeded him, at the age of fifty, and reigned
from A.D. 41 to A.D. 54. 
The Eleventh Book of the Annals opens with the seventh year of Claudius's
reign. The power of his wife Messalina was then at its height. She was,
it seems, jealous of a certain Poppaea Sabina, who is mentioned in Book
XIII., as "having surpassed in beauty all the ladies of her day."
This Poppaea was the daughter of the Poppaeus Sabinus alluded to in Book
VI., and the mother of the more famous Poppaea, afterwards the wife of
the emperor Nero. Messalina contrived to involve this lady and her lover,
Valerius Asiaticus, in a ruinous charge. Asiaticus had been twice consul,
once under Caius Caesar, a second time under Claudius in A.D. 46. He was
rich as well as noble. The Eleventh Book, as we have it, begins with the
account of his prosecution by means Messalina, who with the help of Lucius
Vitellius, Vitellius, father of the Vitellius, afterwards emperor, effected
his ruin.) 
Book 11 - (A.D. 47-48)
[11.0] Translator's Note: The four
following books and the beginning of Book XI, which are lost, contained
the history of a period of nearly ten years, from A.D. 37 to A.D. 47. These
years included the reign of Caius Caesar (Caligula), the son of Germanicus
by the elder Agrippina, and the first six years of the reign of Claudius.
Caius Caesar's reign was three years ten months and eight days in duration.
Claudius (Tiberius Claudius Drusus Nero Germanicus), the brother of Germanicus,
succeeded him, at the age of fifty, and reigned from A.D. 41 to A.D. 54.

The Eleventh Book of the Annals opens with the seventh year of Claudius's
reign. The power of his wife Messalina was then at its height. She was,
it seems, jealous of a certain Poppaea Sabina, who is mentioned in Book
XIII., as "having surpassed in beauty all the ladies of her day."
This Poppaea was the daughter of the Poppaeus Sabinus alluded to in Book
VI., and the mother of the more famous Poppaea, afterwards the wife of
the emperor Nero. Messalina contrived to involve this lady and her lover,
Valerius Asiaticus, in a ruinous charge. Asiaticus had been twice consul,
once under Caius Caesar, a second time under Claudius in A.D. 46. He was
rich as well as noble. The Eleventh Book, as we have it, begins with the
account of his prosecution by means Messalina, who with the help of Lucius
Vitellius, Vitellius, father of the Vitellius, afterwards emperor, effected
his ruin. 
[11.1] MESSALINA believed that Valerius
Asiaticus, who had been twice consul, was one of Poppaea's old lovers.
At the same time she was looking greedily at the gardens which Lucullus
had begun and which Asiaticus was now adorning with singular magnificence,
and so she suborned Suilius to accuse both him and Poppaea. With Suilius
was associated Sosibius, tutor to Britannicus, who was to give Claudius
an apparently friendly warning to beware of a power and wealth which threatened
the throne. Asiaticus, he said, had been the ringleader in the murder of
a Caesar, and then had not feared to face an assembly of the Roman people,
to own the deed, and challenge its glory for his own. Thus grown famous
in the capital, and with a renown widely spread through the provinces,
he was planning a journey to the armies of Germany. Born at Vienna, and
supported by numerous and powerful connections, he would find it easy to
rouse nations allied to his house. Claudius made no further inquiry, but
sent Crispinus, commander of the Praetorians, with troops in hot haste,
as though to put down a revolt. Crispinus found him at Baiae, loaded him
with chains, and hurried him to Rome. 
[11.2] No hearing before the Senate
was granted him. It was in the emperor's chamber, in the presence of Messalina,
that he was heard. There Suilius accused him of corrupting the troops,
of binding them by bribes and indulgences to share in every crime, of adultery
with Poppaea, and finally of unmanly vice. It was at this last that the
accused broke silence, and burst out with the words, "Question thy
own sons, Suilius;they will own my manhood." Then he entered on his
defence. Claudius he moved profoundly, and he even drew tears from Messalina.
But as she left the chamber to wipe them away, she warned Vitellius not
to let the man escape. She hastened herself to effect Poppaea's destruction,
and hired agents to drive her to suicide by the terrors of a prison. Caesar
meanwhile was so unconscious that a few days afterwards he asked her husband
Scipio, who was dining with him, why he sat down to table without his wife,
and was told in reply that she had paid the debt of nature. 
[11.3] When Claudius began to deliberate
about the acquittal of Asiaticus, Vitellius, with tears in his eyes, spoke
of his old friendship with the accused, and of their joint homage to the
emperor's mother, Antonia. He then briefly reviewed the services of Asiaticus
to the State, his recent campaign in the invasion of Britain, and everything
else which seemed likely to win compassion, and suggested that he should
be free to choose his death. Claudius's reply was in the same tone of mercy.
Some friends urged on Asiaticus the quiet death of self-starvation, but
he declined it with thanks. He took his usual exercise, then bathed and
dined cheerfully, and saying that he had better have fallen by the craft
of Tiberius or the fury of Caius Caesar than by the treachery of a woman
and the shameless mouth of Vitellius, he opened his veins, but not till
he had inspected his funeral pyre, and directed its removal to another
spot, lest the smoke should hurt the thick foliage of the trees. So complete
was his calmness even to the last. 
[11.4] The senators were then convoked,
and Suilius proceeded to find new victims in two knights of the first rank
who bore the surname of Petra. The real cause of their destruction was
that they had lent their house for the meetings of Mnester and Poppaea.
But it was a vision of the night that was the actual charge against one
of them. He had, it was alleged, beheld Claudius crowned with a garland
of wheat, the ears of which were turned downwards, and, from this appearance,
he foretold scanty harvests. Some have said that it was a vine-wreath,
of which the leaves were white, which he saw, and that he interpreted it
to signify the death of the emperor after the turn of autumn. It is, however,
beyond dispute that in consequence of some dream, whatever it was, both
the man and his brother perished. Fifteen hundred thousand sesterces and
the decorations of the praetorship were voted to Crispinus. Vitellius bestowed
a million on Sosibius, for giving Britannicus the benefit of his teaching
and Claudius that of his counsels. I may add that when Scipio was called
on for his opinion, he replied, "As I think what all men think about
the deeds of Poppaea, suppose me to say what all men say." A graceful
compromise this between the affection of the husband and the necessities
of the senator. 
[11.5] Suilius after this plied his
accusations without cessation or pity, and his audacity had many rivals.
By assuming to himself all the functions of laws and magistrates, the emperor
had left exposed everything which invited plunder, and of all articles
of public merchandise nothing was more venal than the treachery of advocates.
Thus it happened that one Samius, a Roman knight of the first rank, who
had paid four hundred thousand sesterces to Suilius, stabbed himself in
the advocate's house, on ascertaining his collusion with the adversary.
Upon this, following the lead of Silius, consul-elect, whose elevation
and fall I shall in due course relate, the senators rose in a body, and
demanded the enforcement of the Cincian law, an old enactment, which forbade
any one to receive a fee or a gift for pleading a cause. 
[11.6] When the men, at whom this
strong censure was levelled, loudly protested, Silius, who had a quarrel
with Suilius, attacked them with savage energy. He cited as examples the
orators of old who had thought fame with posterity the fairest recompense
of eloquence. And, "apart from this," he said, "the first
of noble accomplishments was debased by sordid services, and even good
faith could not be upheld in its integrity, when men looked at the greatness
of their gains. If law suits turned to no one's profit, there would be
fewer of them. As it was, quarrels, accusations, hatreds and wrongs were
encouraged, in order that, as the violence of disease brings fees to the
physician, so the corruption of the forum might enrich the advocate. They
should remember Caius Asinius and Messala, and, in later days, Arruntius
and Aeserninus, men raised by a blameless life and by eloquence to the
highest honours." So spoke the consul-elect, and others agreed with
him. A resolution was being framed to bring the guilty under the law of
extortion, when Suilius and Cossutianus and the rest, who saw themselves
threatened with punishment rather than trial, for their guilt was manifest,
gathered round the emperor, and prayed forgiveness for the past. 
[11.7] When he had nodded assent,
they began to plead their cause. "Who," they asked, "can
be so arrogant as to anticipate in hope an eternity of renown? It is for
the needs and the business of life that the resource of eloquence is acquired,
thanks to which no one for want of an advocate is at the mercy of the powerful.
But eloquence cannot be obtained for nothing; private affairs are neglected,
in order that a man may devote himself to the business of others. Some
support life by the profession of arms, some by cultivating land. No work
is expected from any one of which he has not before calculated the profits.
It was easy for Asinius and Messala, enriched with the prizes of the conflict
between Antony and Augustus, it was easy for Arruntius and Aeserninus,
the heirs of wealthy families, to assume grand airs. We have examples at
hand. How great were the fees for which Publius Clodius and Caius Curio
were wont to speak! We are ordinary senators, seeking in the tranquillity
of the State for none but peaceful gains. You must consider the plebeian,
how he gains distinction from the gown. Take away the rewards of a profession,
and the profession must perish." The emperor thought that these arguments,
though less noble, were not without force. He limited the fee which might
be taken to ten thousand sesterces, and those who exceeded this limit were
to be liable to the penalties of extortion. 
[11.8] About this same time Mithridates,
of whom I have before spoken as having ruled Armenia, and having been imprisoned
by order of Caius Caesar, made his way back to his kingdom at the suggestion
of Claudius and in reliance on the help of Pharasmanes. This Pharasmanes,
who was king of the Iberians and Mithridates' brother, now told him that
the Parthians were divided, and that the highest questions of empire being
uncertain, lesser matters were neglected. Gotarzes, among his many cruelties,
had caused the death of his brother Artabanus, with his wife and son. Hence
his people feared for themselves and sent for Vardanes. Ever ready for
daring achievements, Vardanes traversed 375 miles in two days, and drove
before him the surprised and terrified Gotarzes. Without moment's delay,
he seized the neighbouring governments, Seleucia alone refusing his rule.
Rage against the place, which indeed had also revolted from his father,
rather than considerations of policy, made him embarrass himself with the
siege of a strong city, which the defence of a river flowing by it, with
fortifications and supplies, had thoroughly secured. Gotarzes meanwhile,
aided by the resources of the Dahae and Hyrcanians, renewed the war; and
Vardanes, compelled to raise the siege of Seleucia, encamped on the plains
of Bactria. 
[11.9] Then it was that while the
forces of the East were divided, and hesitated which side they should take,
the opportunity of occupying Armenia was presented to Mithridates, who
had the vigorous soldiers of Rome to storm the fortified heights, while
his Iberian cavalry scoured the plain. The Armenians made no resistance
after their governor, Demonax, had ventured on a battle and had been routed.
Cotys, king of Lesser Armenia, to whom some of the nobles inclined, caused
some delay, but he was stopped by a despatch from Claudius, and then everything
passed into the hands of Mithridates, who showed more cruelty than was
wise in a new ruler. The Parthian princes however, just when they were
beginning battle, came to a sudden agreement, on discovering a plot among
their people, which Gotarzes revealed to his brother. At first they approached
each other with hesitation; then, joining right hands, they promised before
the altars of their gods to punish the treachery of their enemies and to
yield one to the other. Vardanes seemed more capable of retaining rule.
Gotarzes, to avoid all rivalry, retired into the depths of Hyrcania. When
Vardanes returned, Seleucia capitulated to him, seven years after its revolt,
little to the credit of the Parthians, whom a single city had so long defied.

[11.10] He then visited the strongest
governments, and was eager to recover Armenia, but was stopped by Vibius
Marsus, governor of Syria, who threatened war. Meanwhile Gotarzes, who
repented of having relinquished his throne, at the solicitation of the
nobility, to whom subjection is a special hardship in peace, collected
a force. Vardanes marched against him to the river Charinda; a fierce battle
was fought over the passage, Vardanes winning a complete victory, and in
a series of successful engagements subduing the intermediate tribes as
far as the river Sindes, which is the boundary between the Dahae and the
Arians. There his successes terminated. The Parthians, victorious though
they were, rebelled against distant service. So after erecting monuments
on which he recorded his greatness, and the tribute won from peoples from
whom no Arsacid had won it before, he returned covered with glory, and
therefore the more haughty and more intolerable to his subjects than ever.
They arranged a plot, and slew him when he was off his guard and intent
upon the chase. He was still in his first youth, and might have been one
of the illustrious few among aged princes, had he sought to be loved by
his subjects as much as to be feared by his foes. The murder of Vardanes
threw the affairs of Parthia into confusion, as the people were in doubt
who should be summoned to the throne. Many inclined to Gotarzes, some to
Meherdates, a descendant of Phraates, who was a hostage in our hands. Finally
Gotarzes prevailed. Established in the palace, he drove the Parthians by
his cruelty and profligacy to send a secret entreaty to the Roman emperor
that Meherdates might be allowed to mount the throne of his ancestors.

[11.11] It was during this consulship,
in the eight hundredth year after the foundation of Rome and the sixty-fourth
after their celebration by Augustus that the secular games were exhibited.
I say nothing of the calculations of the two princes, which I have sufficiently
discussed in my history of the emperor Domitian; for he also exhibited
secular games, at which indeed, being one of the priesthood of the Fifteen
and praetor at the time, I specially assisted. It is in no boastful spirit
that I mention this, but because this duty has immemorially belonged to
the College of the Fifteen, and the praetors have performed the chief functions
in these ceremonies. While Claudius sat to witness the games of the circus,
some of the young nobility acted on horseback the battle of Troy. Among
them was Britannicus, the emperor's son, and Lucius Domitius, who became
soon afterwards by adoption heir to the empire with the surname of Nero.
The stronger popular enthusiasm which greeted him was taken to presage
his greatness. It was commonly reported that snakes had been seen by his
cradle, which they seemed to guard, a fabulous tale invented to match the
marvels of other lands. Nero, never a disparager of himself, was wont to
say that but one snake, at most, had been seen in his chamber. 
[11.12] Something however of popular
favour was bequeathed to him from the remembrance of Germanicus, whose
only male descendant he was, and the pity felt for his mother Agrippina
was increased by the cruelty of Messalina, who, always her enemy, and then
more furious than ever, was only kept from planning an accusation and suborning
informers by a new and almost insane passion. She had grown so frantically
enamoured of Caius Silius, the handsomest of the young nobility of Rome,
that she drove from his bed Junia Silana, a high-born lady, and had her
lover wholly to herself. Silius was not unconscious of his wickedness and
his peril; but a refusal would have insured destruction, and he had some
hope of escaping exposure; the prize too was great, so he consoled himself
by awaiting the future and enjoying the present. As for her, careless of
concealment, she went continually with a numerous retinue to his house,
she haunted his steps, showered on him wealth and honours, and, at last,
as though empire had passed to another, the slaves, the freedmen, the very
furniture of the emperor were to be seen in the possession of the paramour.

[11.13] Claudius meanwhile, who knew
nothing about his wife, and was busy with his functions as censor, published
edicts severely rebuking the lawlessness of the people in the theatre,
when they insulted Caius Pomponius, an ex-consul, who furnished verses
for the stage, and certain ladies of rank. He introduced too a law restraining
the cruel greed of the usurers, and forbidding them to lend at interest
sums repayable on a father's death. He also conveyed by an aqueduct into
Rome the waters which flow from the hills of Simbrua. And he likewise invented
and published for use some new letters, having discovered, as he said,
that even the Greek alphabet had not been completed at once. 
[11.14] It was the Egyptians who
first symbolized ideas, and that by the figures of animals. These records,
the most ancient of all human history, are still seen engraved on stone.
The Egyptians also claim to have invented the alphabet, which the Phoenicians,
they say, by means of their superior seamanship, introduced into Greece,
and of which they appropriated the glory, giving out that they had discovered
what they had really been taught. Tradition indeed says that Cadmus, visiting
Greece in a Phoenician fleet, was the teacher of this art to its yet barbarous
tribes. According to one account, it was Cecrops of Athens or Linus of
Thebes, or Palamedes of Argos in Trojan times who invented the shapes of
sixteen letters, and others, chiefly Simonides, added the rest. In Italy
the Etrurians learnt them from Demaratus of Corinth, and the Aborigines
from the Arcadian Evander. And so the Latin letters have the same form
as the oldest Greek characters. At first too our alphabet was scanty, and
additions were afterwards made. Following this precedent Claudius added
three letters, which were employed during his reign and subsequently disused.
These may still be seen on the tablets of brass set up in the squares and
temples, on which new statutes are published. 
[11.15] Claudius then brought before
the Senate the subject of the college of "haruspices," that,
as he said, "the oldest of Italian sciences might not be lost through
negligence. It had often happened in evil days for the State that advisers
had been summoned at whose suggestion ceremonies had been restored and
observed more duly for the future. The nobles of Etruria, whether of their
own accord or at the instigation of the Roman Senate, had retained this
science, making it the inheritance of distinct families. It was now less
zealously studied through the general indifference to all sound learning
and to the growth of foreign superstitions. At present all is well, but
we must show gratitude to the favour of Heaven, by taking care that the
rites observed during times of peril may not be forgotten in prosperity."
A resolution of the Senate was accordingly passed, charging the pontiffs
to see what should be retained or reformed with respect to the "haruspices."

[11.16] It was in this same year
that the Cherusci asked Rome for a king. They had lost all their nobles
in their civil wars, and there was left but one scion of the royal house,
Italicus by name, who lived at Rome. On the father's side he was descended
from Flavus, the brother of Arminius; his mother was a daughter of Catumerus,
chief of the Chatti. The youth himself was of distinguished beauty, a skilful
horseman and swordsman both after our fashion and that of his country.
So the emperor made him a present of money, furnished him with an escort,
and bade him enter with a good heart on the honours of his house. "Never
before," he said, "had a native of Rome, no hostage but a citizen,
gone to mount a foreign throne." At first his arrival was welcome
to the Germans, and they crowded to pay him court, for he was untainted
by any spirit of faction, and showed the same hearty goodwill to all, practising
sometimes the courtesy and temperance which can never offend, but oftener
those excesses of wine and lust in which barbarians delight. He was winning
fame among his neighbours and even far beyond them, when some who had found
their fortune in party feuds, jealous of his power, fled to the tribes
on the border, protesting that Germany was being robbed of her ancient
freedom, and that the might of Rome was on the rise. "Is there really,"
they said, "no native of this country to fill the place of king without
raising the son of the spy Flavus above all his fellows? It is idle to
put forward the name of Arminius. Had even the son of Arminius come to
the throne after growing to manhood on a hostile soil, he might well be
dreaded, corrupted as he would be by the bread of dependence, by slavery,
by luxury, by all foreign habits. But if Italicus had his father's spirit,
no man, be it remembered, had ever waged war against his country and his
home more savagely than that father." 
[11.17]By these and like appeals
they collected a large force. No less numerous were the partisans of Italicus.
"He was no intruder," they said, "on an unwilling people;
he had obeyed a call. Superior as he was to all others in noble birth,
should they not put his valour to the test, and see whether he showed himself
worthy of his uncle Arminius and his grandfather Catumerus? He need not
blush because his father had never relinquished the loyalty which, with
the consent of the Germans, he had promised to Rome. The name of liberty
was a lying pretext in the mouths of men who, base in private, dangerous
in public life, had nothing to hope except from civil discord." The
people enthusiastically applauded him. After a fierce conflict among the
barbarians, the king was victorious. Subsequently, in his good fortune,
he fell into a despot's pride, was dethroned, was restored by the help
of the Langobardi, and still, in prosperity or adversity, did mischief
to the interests of the Cheruscan nation. 
[11.18] It was during the same period
that the Chauci, free, as it happened, from dissension at home and emboldened
by the death of Sanquinius, made, while Corbulo was on his way, an inroad
into Lower Germany, under the leadership of Gannascus. This man was of
the tribe of the Canninefates, had served long as our auxiliary, had then
deserted, and, getting some light vessels, had made piratical descents
specially on the coast of Gaul, inhabited, he knew, by a wealthy and unwarlike
population. Corbulo meanwhile entered the province with careful preparation
and soon winning a renown of which that campaign was the beginning, he
brought his triremes up the channel of the Rhine and the rest of his vessels
up the estuaries and canals to which they were adapted. Having sunk the
enemy's flotilla, driven out Gannascus, and brought everything into good
order, he restored the discipline of former days among legions which had
forgotten the labours and toils of the soldier and delighted only in plunder.
No one was to fall out of the line; no one was to fight without orders.
At the outposts, on guard, in the duties of day and of night, they were
always to be under arms. One soldier, it was said, had suffered death for
working at the trenches without his sword, another for wearing nothing
as he dug, but his poniard. These extreme and possibly false stories at
least had their origin in the general's real severity. We may be sure that
he was strict and implacable to serious offences, when such sternness in
regard to trifles could be believed of him. 
[11.19] The fear thus inspired variously
affected his own troops and the enemy. Our men gained fresh valour; the
barbarians felt their pride broken. The Frisians, who had been hostile
or disloyal since the revolt which had been begun by the defeat of Lucius
Apronius, gave hostages and settled down on territories marked out by Corbulo,
who, at the same time, gave them a senate, magistrates, and a constitution.
That they might not throw off their obedience, he built a fort among them,
while he sent envoys to invite the Greater Chauci to submission and to
destroy Gannascus by stratagem. This stealthy attempt on the life of a
deserter and a traitor was not unsuccessful, nor was it anything ignoble.
Yet the Chauci were violently roused by the man's death, and Corbulo was
now sowing the seeds of another revolt, thus getting a reputation which
many liked, but of which many thought ill. "Why," men asked,
"was he irritating the foe? His disasters will fall on the State.
If he is successful, so famous a hero will be a danger to peace, and a
formidable subject for a timid emperor." Claudius accordingly forbade
fresh attacks on Germany, so emphatically as to order the garrisons to
be withdrawn to the left bank of the Rhine. 
[11.20] Corbulo was actually preparing
to encamp on hostile soil when the despatch reached him. Surprised, as
he was, and many as were the thoughts which crowded on him, thoughts of
peril from the emperor, of scorn from the barbarians, of ridicule from
the allies, he said nothing but this, "Happy the Roman generals of
old," and gave the signal for retreat. To keep his soldiers free from
sloth, he dug a canal of twenty-three miles in length between the Rhine
and the Meuse, as a means of avoiding the uncertain perils of the ocean.
The emperor, though he had forbidden war, yet granted him triumphal distinctions.
Soon afterwards Curtius Rufus obtained the same honour. He had opened mines
in the territory of the Mattiaci for working certain veins of silver. The
produce was small and soon exhausted. The toil meanwhile of the legions
was only to a loss, while they dug channels for water and constructed below
the surface works which are difficult enough in the open air. Worn out
by the labour, and knowing that similar hardships were endured in several
provinces, the soldiers wrote a secret despatch in the name of the armies,
begging the emperor to give in advance triumphal distinctions to one to
whom he was about to entrust his forces. 
[11.21] Of the birth of Curtius Rufus,
whom some affirm to have been the son of a gladiator, I would not publish
a falsehood, while I shrink from telling the truth. On reaching manhood
he attached himself to a quaestor to whom Africa had been allotted, and
was walking alone at midday in some unfrequented arcade in the town of
Adrumetum, when he saw a female figure of more than human stature, and
heard a voice, "Thou, Rufus, art the man who will one day come into
this province as proconsul." Raised high in hope by such a presage,
he returned to Rome, where, through the lavish expenditure of his friends
and his own vigorous ability, he obtained the quaestorship, and, subsequently,
in competition with well-born candidates, the praetorship, by the vote
of the emperor Tiberius, who threw a veil over the discredit of his origin,
saying, "Curtius Rufus seems to me to be his own ancestor." Afterwards,
throughout a long old age of surly sycophancy to those above him, of arrogance
to those beneath him, and of moroseness among his equals, he gained the
high office of the consulship, triumphal distinctions, and, at last, the
province of Africa. There he died, and so fulfilled the presage of his
destiny. 
[11.22] At Rome meanwhile, without
any motive then known or subsequently ascertained, Cneius Nonius, a Roman
knight, was found wearing a sword amid a crowd who were paying their respects
to the emperor. The man confessed his own guilt when he was being torn
in pieces by torture, but gave up no accomplices, perhaps having none to
hide. During the same consulship, Publius Dolabella proposed that a spectacle
of gladiators should be annually exhibited at the cost of those who obtained
the quaestorship. In our ancestors' days this honour had been a reward
of virtue, and every citizen, with good qualities to support him, was allowed
to compete for office. At first there were no distinctions even of age,
which prevented a man in his early youth from becoming a consul or a dictator.
The quaestors indeed were appointed while the kings still ruled, and this
the revival by Brutus of the lex curiata plainly shows. The consuls retained
the power of selecting them, till the people bestowed this office as well
as others. The first so created were Valerius Potitus and Aemilius Mamercus
sixty-three years after the expulsion of the Tarquins, and they were to
be attached to the war-department. As the public business increased, two
more were appointed to attend to affairs at Rome. This number was again
doubled, when to the contributions of Italy was added the tribute of the
provinces. Subsequently Sulla, by one of his laws, provided that twenty
should be elected to fill up the Senate, to which he had intrusted judicial
functions. These functions the knights afterwards recovered, but the quaestorship
was obtained, without expense, by merit in the candidates or by the good
nature of the electors, till at Dolabella's suggestion it was, so to speak,
put up to sale. 
[11.23] In the consulship of Aulus
Vitellius and Lucius Vipstanus the question of filling up the Senate was
discussed, and the chief men of Gallia Comata, as it was called, who had
long possessed the rights of allies and of Roman citizens, sought the privilege
of obtaining public offices at Rome. There was much talk of every kind
on the subject, and it was argued before the emperor with vehement opposition.
"Italy," it was asserted, "is not so feeble as to be unable
to furnish its own capital with a senate. Once our native-born citizens
sufficed for peoples of our own kin, and we are by no means dissatisfied
with the Rome of the past. To this day we cite examples, which under our
old customs the Roman character exhibited as to valour and renown. Is it
a small thing that Veneti and Insubres have already burst into the Senate-house,
unless a mob of foreigners, a troop of captives, so to say, is now forced
upon us? What distinctions will be left for the remnants of our noble houses,
or for any impoverished senators from Latium? Every place will be crowded
with these millionaires, whose ancestors of the second and third generations
at the head of hostile tribes destroyed our armies with fire and sword,
and actually besieged the divine Julius at Alesia. These are recent memories.
What if there were to rise up the remembrance of those who fell in Rome's
citadel and at her altar by the hands of these same barbarians! Let them
enjoy indeed the title of citizens, but let them not vulgarise the distinctions
of the Senate and the honours of office." 
[11.24] These and like arguments
failed to impress the emperor. He at once addressed himself to answer them,
and thus harangued the assembled Senate. "My ancestors, the most ancient
of whom was made at once a citizen and a noble of Rome, encourage me to
govern by the same policy of transferring to this city all conspicuous
merit, wherever found. And indeed I know, as facts, that the Julii came
from Alba, the Coruncanii from Camerium, the Porcii from Tusculum, and
not to inquire too minutely into the past, that new members have been brought
into the Senate from Etruria and Lucania and the whole of Italy, that Italy
itself was at last extended to the Alps, to the end that not only single
persons but entire countries and tribes might be united under our name.
We had unshaken peace at home; we prospered in all our foreign relations,
in the days when Italy beyond the Po was admitted to share our citizenship,
and when, enrolling in our ranks the most vigorous of the provincials,
under colour of settling our legions throughout the world, we recruited
our exhausted empire. Are we sorry that the Balbi came to us from Spain,
and other men not less illustrious from Narbon Gaul? Their descendants
are still among us, and do not yield to us in patriotism. "What was
the ruin of Sparta and Athens, but this, that mighty as they were in war,
they spurned from them as aliens those whom they had conquered? Our founder
Romulus, on the other hand, was so wise that he fought as enemies and then
hailed as fellow-citizens several nations on the very same day. Strangers
have reigned over us. That freedmen's sons should be intrusted with public
offices is not, as many wrongly think, a sudden innovation, but was a common
practice in the old commonwealth. But, it will be said, we have fought
with the Senones. I suppose then that the Volsci and Aequi never stood
in array against us. Our city was taken by the Gauls. Well, we also gave
hostages to the Etruscans, and passed under the yoke of the Samnites. On
the whole, if you review all our wars, never has one been finished in a
shorter time than that with the Gauls. Thenceforth they have preserved
an unbroken and loyal peace. United as they now are with us by manners,
education, and intermarriage, let them bring us their gold and their wealth
rather than enjoy it in isolation. Everything, Senators, which we now hold
to be of the highest antiquity, was once new. Plebeian magistrates came
after patrician; Latin magistrates after plebeian; magistrates of other
Italian peoples after Latin. This practice too will establish itself, and
what we are this day justifying by precedents, will be itself a precedent."

[11.25] The emperor's speech was
followed by a decree of the Senate, and the Aedui were the first to obtain
the right of becoming senators at Rome. This compliment was paid to their
ancient alliance, and to the fact that they alone of the Gauls cling to
the name of brothers of the Roman people. About the same time the emperor
enrolled in the ranks of the patricians such senators as were of the oldest
families, and such as had had distinguished ancestors. There were now but
scanty relics of the Greater Houses of Romulus and of the Lesser Houses
of Lucius Brutus, as they had been called, and those too were exhausted
which the Dictator Caesar by the Cassian and the emperor Augustus by the
Saenian law had chosen into their place. These acts, as being welcome to
the State, were undertaken with hearty gladness by the imperial censor.
Anxiously considering how he was to rid the Senate of men of notorious
infamy, he preferred a gentle method, recently devised, to one which accorded
with the sternness of antiquity, and advised each to examine his own case
and seek the privilege of laying aside his rank. Permission, he said, would
be readily obtained. He would publish in the same list those who had been
expelled and those who had been allowed to retire, that by this confounding
together of the decision of the censors and the modesty of voluntary resignation
the disgrace might be softened. For this, the consul Vipstanus moved that
Claudius should be called "Father of the Senate." The title of
"Father of the Country" had, he argued, been indiscriminately
bestowed; new services ought to be recognized by unusual titles. The emperor,
however, himself stopped the consul's flattery, as extravagant. He closed
the lustrum, the census for which gave a total of 5,984,072 citizens. Then
too ended his blindness as to his domestic affairs. He was soon compelled
to notice and punish his wife's infamies, till he afterwards craved passionately
for an unhallowed union. 
[11.26] Messalina, now grown weary
of the very facility of her adulteries, was rushing into strange excesses,
when even Silius, either through some fatal infatuation or because he imagined
that, amid the dangers which hung over him, danger itself was the best
safety, urged the breaking off of all concealment. "They were not,"
he said, "in such an extremity as to have to wait for the emperor's
old age. Harmless measures were for the innocent. Crime once exposed had
no refuge but in audacity. They had accomplices in all who feared the same
fate. For himself, as he had neither wife nor child, he was ready to marry
and to adopt Britannicus. Messalina would have the same power as before,
with the additional advantage of a quiet mind, if only they took Claudius
by surprise, who, though unsuspicious of treachery, was hasty in his wrath."
The suggestion was coldly received, not because the lady loved her husband,
but from a fear that Silius, after attaining his highest hopes, would spurn
an adulteress, and soon estimate at its true value the crime which in the
midst of peril he had approved. But she craved the name of wife, for the
sake of the monstrous infamy, that last source of delight to the reckless.
She waited only till Claudius set out for Ostia to perform a sacrifice,
and then celebrated all the solemnities of marriage. 
[11.27] I am well aware that it will
seem a fable that any persons in the world could have been so obtuse in
a city which knows everything and hides nothing, much more, that these
persons should have been a consul-elect and the emperor's wife; that, on
an appointed day, before witnesses duly summoned, they should have come
together as if for the purpose of legitimate marriage; that she should
have listened to the words of the bridegroom's friends, should have sacrificed
to the gods, have taken her place among a company of guests, have lavished
her kisses and caresses, and passed the night in the freedom which marriage
permits. But this is no story to excite wonder; I do but relate what I
have heard and what our fathers have recorded. 
[11.28] The emperor's court indeed
shuddered, its powerful personages especially, the men who had much to
fear from a revolution. From secret whisperings they passed to loud complaints.
"When an actor," they said, "impudently thrust himself into
the imperial chamber, it certainly brought scandal on the State, but we
were a long way from ruin. Now, a young noble of stately beauty, of vigorous
intellect, with the near prospect of the consulship, is preparing himself
for a loftier ambition. There can be no secret about what is to follow
such a marriage." Doubtless there was thrill of alarm when they thought
of the apathy of Claudius, of his devotion to his wife and of the many
murders perpetrated at Messalina's bidding. On the other hand, the very
good nature of the emperor inspired confident hope that if they could overpower
him by the enormity of the charge, she might be condemned and crushed before
she was accused. The critical point was this, that he should not hear her
defence, and that his ears should be shut even against her confession.

[11.29] At first Callistus, of whom
I have already spoken in connection with the assassination of Caius Caesar,
Narcissus, who had contrived the death of Appius, and Pallas, who was then
in the height of favour, debated whether they might not by secret threats
turn Messalina from her passion for Silius, while they concealed all else.
Then fearing that they would be themselves involved in ruin, they abandoned
the idea, Pallas out of cowardice, and Callistus, from his experience of
a former court, remembering that prudent rather than vigorous counsels
insure the maintenance of power. Narcissus persevered, only so far changing
his plan as not to make her aware beforehand by a single word what was
the charge or who was the accuser. Then he eagerly watched his opportunity,
and, as the emperor lingered long at Ostia, he sought two of the mistresses
to whose society Claudius was especially partial, and, by gifts, by promises,
by dwelling on power increased by the wife's fall, he induced them to undertake
the work of the informer. 
[11.30] On this, Calpurnia (that
was the woman's name), as soon as she was allowed a private interview,
threw herself at the emperor's knees, crying out that Messalina was married
to Silius. At the same time she asked Cleopatra, who was standing near
and waiting for the question, whether she knew it. Cleopatra nodding assent,
she begged that Narcissus might be summoned. Narcissus entreated pardon
for the past, for having concealed the scandal while confined to a Vettius
or a Plautius. Even now, he said, he would not make charges of adultery,
and seem to be asking back the palace, the slaves, and the other belongings
of imperial rank. These Silius might enjoy; only, he must give back the
wife and annul the act of marriage. "Do you know," he said "of
your divorce? The people, the army, the Senate saw the marriage of Silius.
Act at once, or the new husband is master of Rome." 
[11.31] Claudius then summoned all
his most powerful friends. First he questioned Turranius, superintendent
of the corn market; next, Lusius Geta, who commanded the praetorians. When
they confessed the truth, the whole company clamoured in concert that he
must go to the camp, must assure himself of the praetorian cohorts, must
think of safety before he thought of vengeance. It is quite certain that
Claudius was so overwhelmed by terror that he repeatedly asked whether
he was indeed in possession of the empire, whether Silius was still a subject.
Messalina meanwhile, more wildly profligate than ever, was celebrating
in mid-autumn a representation of the vintage in her new home. The presses
were being trodden; the vats were overflowing; women girt with skins were
dancing, as Bacchanals dance in their worship or their frenzy. Messalina
with flowing hair shook the thyrsus, and Silius at her side, crowned with
ivy and wearing the buskin, moved his head to some lascivious chorus. It
is said that one Vettius Valens climbed a very lofty tree in sport, and
when they asked him what he saw, replied, "A terrible storm from Ostia."
Possibly such appearance had begun; perhaps, a word dropped by chance became
a prophecy. 
[11.32] Meanwhile no mere rumour
but messengers from all parts brought the news that everything was known
to Claudius, and that he was coming, bent on vengeance. Messalina upon
this went to the gardens of Lucullus; Silius, to conceal his fear, to his
business in the forum. The other guests were flying in all directions when
the centurions appeared and put every one in irons where they found them,
either in the public streets or in hiding. Messalina, though her peril
took away all power of thought, promptly resolved to meet and face her
husband, a course in which she had often found safety; while she bade Britannicus
and Octavia hasten to embrace their father. She besought Vibidia, the eldest
of the Vestal Virgins, to demand audience of the supreme pontiff and to
beg for mercy. Meanwhile, with only three companions, so lonely did she
find herself in a moment, she traversed the whole length of the city, and,
mounting on a cart used to remove garden refuse, proceeded along the road
to Ostia; not pitied, so overpoweringly hideous were her crimes, by a single
person. 
[11.33] There was equal alarm on
the emperor's side. They put but little trust in Geta, who commanded the
praetorians, a man swayed with good case to good or evil. Narcissus in
concert with others who dreaded the same fate, declared that the only hope
of safety for the emperor lay in his transferring for that one day the
command of the soldiers to one of the freedmen, and he offered to undertake
it himself. And that Claudius might not be induced by Lucius Vitellius
and Largus Caecina to repent, while he was riding into Rome, he asked and
took a seat in the emperor's carriage. 
[11.34] It was currently reported
in after times that while the emperor broke into contradictory exclamations,
now inveighing against the infamies of his wife, and now, returning in
thought to the remembrance of his love and of his infant children, Vitellius
said nothing but, "What audacity! what wickedness!" Narcissus
indeed kept pressing him to clear up his ambiguities and let the truth
be known, but still he could not prevail upon him to utter anything that
was not vague and susceptible of any meaning which might be put on it,
or upon Largus Caecina, to do anything but follow his example. And now
Messalina had presented herself, and was insisting that the emperor should
listen to the mother of Octavia and Britannicus, when the accuser roared
out at her the story of Silius and her marriage. At the same moment, to
draw Caesar's eyes away from her, he handed him some papers which detailed
her debaucheries. Soon afterwards, as he was entering Rome, his children
by Messalina were to have shown themselves, had not Narcissus ordered their
removal. Vibidia he could not repel, when, with a vehemently indignant
appeal, she demanded that a wife should not be given up to death without
a hearing. So Narcissus replied that the emperor would hear her, and that
she should have an opportunity of disproving the charge. Meanwhile the
holy virgin was to go and discharge her sacred duties. 
[11.35] All throughout, Claudius
preserved a strange silence; Vitellius seemed unconscious. Everything was
under the freedman's control. By his order, the paramour's house was thrown
open and the emperor conducted thither. First, on the threshold, he pointed
out the statue of Silius's father, which a decree of the Senate had directed
to be destroyed; next, how the heirlooms of the Neros and the Drusi had
been degraded into the price of infamy. Then he led the emperor, furious
and bursting out in menace, into the camp, where the soldiers were purposely
assembled. Claudius spoke to them a few words at the dictation of Narcissus.
Shame indeed checked the utterance even of a righteous anger. Instantly
there came a shout from the cohorts, demanding the names of the culprits
and their punishment. Brought before the tribunal, Silius sought neither
defence nor delay, but begged that his death might be hastened. A like
courage made several Roman knights of the first rank desirous of a speedy
doom. Titius Proculus, who had been appointed to watch Messalina and was
now offering his evidence, Vettius Valens, who confessed his guilt, together
with Pompeius Urbicus and Saufellus Trogus from among her accomplices,
were ordered to execution. Decius Calpurnianus too, commander of the watch,
Sulpicius Rufus, who had the charge of the Games, and Juncus Virgilianus,
a senator, were similarly punished. 
[11.36] Mnester alone occasioned
a pause. Rending off his clothes, he insisted on Claudius looking at the
scars of his stripes and remembering his words when he surrendered himself,
without reserve, to Messalina's bidding. The guilt of others had been the
result of presents or of large promises; his, of necessity. He must have
been the first victim had Silius obtained empire. Caesar was touched by
his appeal and inclined to mercy, but his freedmen prevailed on him not
to let any indulgence be shown to a player when so many illustrious citizens
had fallen. "It mattered not whether he had sinned so greatly from
choice or compulsion." Even the defence of Traulus Montanus, a Roman
knight, was not admitted. A young man of pure life, yet of singular beauty,
he had been summoned and dismissed within the space of one night by Messalina,
who was equally capricious in her passions and dislikes. In the cases of
Suilius Caesoninus and Plautius Lateranus, the extreme penalty was remitted.
The latter was saved by the distinguished services of his uncle; the former
by his very vices, having amid that abominable throng submitted to the
worst degradation. 
[11.37] Messalina meanwhile, in the
gardens of Lucullus, was struggling for life, and writing letters of entreaty,
as she alternated between hope arid fury. In her extremity, it was her
pride alone which forsook her. Had not Narcissus hurried on her death,
ruin would have recoiled on her accuser. Claudius had returned home to
an early banquet; then, in softened mood, when the wine had warmed him,
he bade some one go and tell the "poor creature" (this is the
word which they say he used) to come the morrow and plead her cause. Hearing
this, seeing too that his wrath was subsiding and his passion returning,
and fearing, in the event of delay, the effect of approaching night and
conjugal recollections, Narcissus rushed out, and ordered the centurions
and the tribunes, who were on guard, to accomplish the deed of blood. Such,
he said, was the emperor's bidding. Evodus, one of the freedmen, was appointed
to watch and complete the affair. Hurrying on before with all speed to
the gardens, he found Messalina stretched upon the ground, while by her
side sat Lepida, her mother, who, though estranged from her daughter in
prosperity, was now melted to pity by her inevitable doom, and urged her
not to wait for the executioner. "Life," she said, "was
over; all that could be looked for was honour in death." But in that
heart, utterly corrupted by profligacy, nothing noble remained. She still
prolonged her tears and idle complaints, till the gates were forced open
by the rush of the new comers, and there stood at her side the tribune,
sternly silent, and the freedman, overwhelming her with the copious insults
of a servile tongue. 
[11.38] Then for the first time she
understood her fate and put her hand to a dagger. In her terror she was
applying it ineffectually to her throat and breast, when a blow from the
tribune drove it through her. Her body was given up to her mother. Claudius
was still at the banquet when they told him that Messalina was dead, without
mentioning whether it was by her own or another's hand. Nor did he ask
the question, but called for the cup and finished his repast as usual.
During the days which followed he showed no sign of hatred or joy or anger
or sadness, in a word, of any human emotion, either when he looked on her
triumphant accusers or on her weeping children. The Senate assisted his
forgetfulness by decreeing that her name and her statues should be removed
from all places, public or private. To Narcissus were voted the decorations
of the quaestorship, a mere trifle to the pride of one who rose in the
height of his power above Pallas and Callistus. 
Book 12 - (A.D. 48-54)
[12.1] THE destruction of Messalina
shook the imperial house; for a strife arose among the freedmen, who should
choose a wife for Claudius, impatient as he was of a single life and submissive
to the rule of wives. The ladies were fired with no less jealousy. Each
insisted on her rank, beauty, and fortune, and pointed to her claims to
such a marriage. But the keenest competition was between Lollia Paulina,
the daughter of Marcus Lollius, an ex-consul, and Julia Agrippina, the
daughter of Germanicus. Callistus favoured the first, Pallas the second.
Aelia Paetina however, of the family of the Tuberones, had the support
of Narcissus. The emperor, who inclined now one way, now another, as he
listened to this or that adviser, summoned the disputants to a conference
and bade them express their opinions and give their reasons. 
[12.2] Narcissus dwelt on the marriage
of years gone by, on the tie of offspring, for Paetina was the mother of
Antonia, and on the advantage of excluding a new element from his household,
by the return of a wife to whom he was accustomed, and who would assuredly
not look with a stepmother's animosity on Britannicus and Octavia, who
were next in her affections to her own children. Callistus argued that
she was compromised by her long separation, and that were she to be taken
back, she would be supercilious on the strength of it. It would be far
better to introduce Lollia, for, as she had no children of her own, she
would be free from jealousy, and would take the place of a mother towards
her stepchildren. Pallas again selected Agrippina for special commendation
because she would bring with her Germanicus's grandson, who was thoroughly
worthy of imperial rank, the scion of a noble house and a link to unite
the descendants of the Claudian family. He hoped that a woman who was the
mother of many children and still in the freshness of youth, would not
carry off the grandeur of the Caesars to some other house. 
[12.3] This advice prevailed, backed
up as it was by Agrippina's charms. On the pretext of her relationship,
she paid frequent visits to her uncle, and so won his heart, that she was
preferred to the others, and, though not yet his wife, already possessed
a wife's power. For as soon as she was sure of her marriage, she began
to aim at greater things, and planned an alliance between Domitius, her
son by Cneius Aenobarbus, and Octavia, the emperor's daughter. This could
not be accomplished without a crime, for the emperor had betrothed Octavia
to Lucius Silanus, a young man otherwise famous, whom he had brought forward
as a candidate for popular favour by the honour of triumphal distinctions
and by a magnificent gladiatorial show. But no difficulty seemed to be
presented by the temper of a sovereign who had neither partialities nor
dislikes, but such as were suggested and dictated to him. 
[12.4] Vitellius accordingly, who
used the name of censor to screen a slave's trickeries, and looked forward
to new despotisms, already impending, associated himself in Agrippina's
plans, with a view to her favour, and began to bring charges against Silanus,
whose sister, Junia Calvina, a handsome and lively girl, had shortly before
become his daughter-in-law. Here was a starting point for an accuser. Vitellius
put an infamous construction on the somewhat incautious though not criminal
love between the brother and sister. The emperor listened, for his affection
for his daughter inclined him the more to admit suspicions against his
son-in-law. Silanus meanwhile, who knew nothing of the plot, and happened
that year to be praetor, was suddenly expelled from the Senate by an edict
of Vitellius, though the roll of Senators had been recently reviewed and
the lustrum closed. Claudius at the same time broke off the connection;
Silanus was forced to resign his office, and the one remaining day of his
praetorship was conferred on Eprius Marcellus. 
[12.5] In the year of the consulship
of Caius Pompeius and Quintus Veranius, the marriage arranged between Claudius
and Agrippina was confirmed both by popular rumour and by their own illicit
love. Still, they did not yet dare to celebrate the nuptials in due form,
for there was no precedent for the introduction of a niece into an uncle's
house. It was positively incest, and if disregarded, it would, people feared,
issue in calamity to the State. These scruples ceased not till Vitellius
undertook the management of the matter in his own way. He asked the emperor
whether he would yield to the recommendations of the people and to the
authority of the Senate. When Claudius replied that he was one among the
citizens and could not resist their unanimous voice, Vitellius requested
him to wait in the palace, while he himself went to the Senate. Protesting
that the supreme interest of the commonwealth was at stake, he begged to
be allowed to speak first, and then began to urge that the very burdensome
labours of the emperor in a world-wide administration, required assistance,
so that, free from domestic cares, he might consult the public welfare.
How again could there be a more virtuous relief for the mind of an imperial
censor than the taking of a wife to share his prosperity and his troubles,
to whom he might intrust his inmost thoughts and the care of his young
children, unused as he was to luxury and pleasure, and wont from his earliest
youth to obey the laws. 
[12.6] Vitellius, having first put
forward these arguments in a conciliatory speech, and met with decided
acquiescence from the Senate, began afresh to point out, that, as they
all recommended the emperor's marriage, they ought to select a lady conspicuous
for noble rank and purity, herself too the mother of children. "It
cannot," he said, "be long a question that Agrippina stands first
in nobility of birth. She has given proof too that she is not barren, and
she has suitable moral qualities. It is, again, a singular advantage to
us, due to divine providence, for a widow to be united to an emperor who
has limited himself to his own lawful wives. We have heard from our fathers,
we have ourselves seen that married women were seized at the caprice of
the Caesars. This is quite alien to the propriety of our day. Rather let
a precedent be now set for the taking of a wife by an emperor. But, it
will be said, marriage with a brother's daughter is with us a novelty.
True; but it is common in other countries, and there is no law to forbid
it. Marriages of cousins were long unknown, but after a time they became
frequent. Custom adapts itself to expediency, and this novelty will hereafter
take its place among recognized usages." 
[12.7] There were some who rushed
out of the Senate passionately protesting that if the emperor hesitated,
they would use violence. A promiscuous throng assembled, and kept exclaiming
that the same too was the prayer of the Roman people. Claudius without
further delay presented himself in the forum to their congratulations;
then entering the Senate, he asked from them a decree which should decide
that for the future marriages between uncles and brothers' daughters should
be legal. There was, however, found only one person who desired such a
marriage, Alledius Severus, a Roman knight, who, as many said, was swayed
by the influence of Agrippina. Then came a revolution in the State, and
everything was under the control of a woman, who did not, like Messalina,
insult Rome by loose manners. It was a stringent, and, so to say, masculine
despotism; there was sternness and generally arrogance in public, no sort
of immodesty at home, unless it conduced to power. A boundless greed of
wealth was veiled under the pretext that riches were being accumulated
as a prop to the throne. 
[12.8] On the day of the marriage
Silanus committed suicide, having up to that time prolonged his hope of
life, or else choosing that day to heighten the popular indignation. His
sister, Calvina, was banished from Italy. Claudius further added that sacrifices
after the ordinances of King Tullius, and atonements were to be offered
by the pontiffs in the grove of Diana, amid general ridicule at the idea
devising penalties and propitiations for incest at such a time. Agrippina,
that she might not be conspicuous only by her evil deeds, procured for
Annaeus Seneca a remission of his exile, and with it the praetorship. She
thought this would be universally welcome, from the celebrity of his attainments,
and it was her wish too for the boyhood of Domitius to be trained under
so excellent an instructor, and for them to have the benefit of his counsels
in their designs on the throne. For Seneca, it was believed, was devoted
to Agrippina from a remembrance of her kindness, and an enemy to Claudius
from a bitter sense of wrong. 
[12.9] It was then resolved to delay
no longer. Memmius Pollio, the consul-elect, was induced by great promises
to deliver a speech, praying Claudius to betroth Octavia to Domitius. The
match was not unsuitable to the age of either, and was likely to develop
still more important results. Pollio introduced the motion in much the
same language as Vitellius had lately used. So Octavia was betrothed, and
Domitius, besides his previous relationship, became now the emperor's affianced
son-in-law, and an equal of Britannicus, through the exertions of his mother
and the cunning of those who had been the accusers of Messalina, and feared
the vengeance of her son. 
[12.10] About the same time an embassy
from the Parthians, which had been sent, as I have stated, to solicit the
return of Meherdates, was introduced into the Senate, and delivered a message
to the following effect:- "They were not," they said, "unaware
of the treaty of alliance, nor did their coming imply any revolt from the
family of the Arsacids; indeed, even the son of Vonones, Phraates's grandson,
was with them in their resistance to the despotism of Gotarzes, which was
alike intolerable to the nobility and to the people. Already brothers,
relatives, and distant kin had been swept off by murder after murder; wives
actually pregnant, and tender children were added to Gotarzes' victims,
while, slothful at home and unsuccessful in war, he made cruelty a screen
for his feebleness. Between the Parthians and ourselves there was an ancient
friendship, founded on a state alliance, and we ought to support allies
who were our rivals in strength, and yet yielded to us out of respect.
Kings' sons were given as hostages, in order that when Parthia was tired
of home rule, it might fall back on the emperor and the Senate, and receive
from them a better sovereign, familiar with Roman habits." 
[12.11] In answer to these and like
arguments Claudius began to speak of the grandeur of Rome and the submissive
attitude of the Parthians. He compared himself to the Divine Augustus,
from whom, he reminded them, they had sought a king, but omitted to mention
Tiberius, though he too had sent them sovereigns. He added some advice
for Meherdates, who was present, and told him not to be thinking of a despot
and his slaves, but rather of a ruler among fellow citizens, and to practise
clemency and justice which barbarians would like the more for being unused
to them. Then he turned to the envoys and bestowed high praise on the young
foster-son of Rome, as one whose self-control had hitherto been exemplary.
"Still," he said, "they must bear with the caprices of kings,
and frequent revolutions were bad. Rome, sated with her glory, had reached
such a height that, she wished even foreign nations to enjoy repose."
Upon this Caius Cassius, governor of Syria, was commissioned to escort
the young prince to the bank of the Euphrates. 
[12.12] Cassius was at that time
pre-eminent for legal learning. The profession of the soldier is forgotten
in a quiet period, and peace reduces the enterprising and indolent to an
equality. But Cassius, as far as it was possible without war, revived ancient
discipline, kept exercising the legions, in short, used as much diligence
and precaution as if an enemy were threatening him. This conduct he counted
worthy of his ancestors and of the Cassian family which had won renown
even in those countries. He then summoned those at whose suggestion a king
had been sought from Rome, and having encamped at Zeugma where the river
was most easily fordable and awaited the arrival of the chief men of Parthia
and of Acbarus, king of the Arabs, he reminded Meherdates that the impulsive
enthusiasm of barbarians soon flags from delay or even changes into treachery,
and that therefore he should urge on his enterprise. The advice was disregarded
through the perfidy Acbarus, by whom the foolish young prince, who thought
that the highest position merely meant self-indulgence, was detained for
several days in the town of Edessa. Although a certain Carenes pressed
them to come and promised easy success if they hastened their arrival,
they did not make for Mesopotamia, which was close to them, but, by a long
detour, for Armenia, then ill-suited to their movements, as winter was
beginning. 
[12.13] As they approached the plains,
wearied with the snows and mountains, they were joined by the forces of
Carenes, and having crossed the river Tigris they traversed the country
of the Adiabeni, whose king Izates had avowedly embraced the alliance of
Meherdates, though secretly and in better faith he inclined to Gotarzes.
In their march they captured the city of Ninos, the most ancient capital
of Assyria, and a fortress, historically famous, as the spot where the
last battle between Darius and Alexander the power of Persia fell. Gotarzes
meantime was offering vows to the local divinities on a mountain called
Sambulos, with special worship of Hercules, who at a stated time bids the
priests in a dream equip horses for the chase and place them near his temple.
When the horses have been laden with quivers full of arrows, they scour
the forest and at length return at night with empty quivers, panting violently.
Again the god in a vision of the night reveals to them the track along
which he roamed through the woods, and everywhere slaughtered beasts are
found. 
[12.14] Gotarzes, his army not being
yet in sufficient force, made the river Corma a line of defence, and though
he was challenged to an engagement by taunting messages, he contrived delays,
shifted his positions and sent emissaries to corrupt the enemy and bribe
them to throw off their allegiance. Izates of the Adiabeni and then Acbarus
of the Arabs deserted with their troops, with their countrymen's characteristic
fickleness, confirming previous experience, that barbarians prefer to seek
a king from Rome than to keep him. Meherdates, stript of his powerful auxiliaries
and suspecting treachery in the rest, resolved, as his last resource, to
risk everything and try the issue of a battle. Nor did Gotarzes, who was
emboldened by the enemy's diminished strength, refuse the challenge. They
fought with terrible courage and doubtful result, till Carenes, who having
beaten down all resistance had advanced too far, was surprised by a fresh
detachment in his rear. Then Meherdates in despair yielded to promises
from Parrhaces, one of his father's adherents, and was by his treachery
delivered in chains to the conqueror. Gotarzes taunted him with being no
kinsman of his or of the Arsacids, but a foreigner and a Roman, and having
cut off his ears, bade him live, a memorial of his own clemency, and a
disgrace to us. After this Gotarzes fell ill and died, and Vonones, who
then ruled the Medes, was summoned to the throne. He was memorable neither
for his good nor bad fortune; he completed a short and inglorious reign,
and then the empire of Parthia passed to his son Vologeses. 
[12.15] Mithridates of Bosporus,
meanwhile, who had lost his power and was a mere outcast, on learning that
the Roman general, Didius, and the main strength of his army had retired,
and that Cotys, a young prince without experience, was left in his new
kingdom with a few cohorts under Julius Aquila, a Roman knight, disdaining
both, roused the neighbouring tribes, and drew deserters to his standard.
At last he collected an army, drove out the king of the Dandaridae, and
possessed himself of his dominions. When this was known, and the invasion
of Bosporus was every moment expected, Aquila and Cotys, seeing that hostilities
had been also resumed by Zorsines, king of the Siraci, distrusted their
own strength, and themselves too sought the friendship of the foreigner
by sending envoys to Eunones, who was then chief of the Adorsi. There was
no difficulty about alliance, when they pointed to the power of Rome in
contrast with the rebel Mithridates. It was accordingly stipulated that
Eunones should engage the enemy with his cavalry, and the Romans undertake
the siege of towns. 
[12.16] Then the army advanced in
regular formation, the Adorsi in the van and the rear, while the centre
was strengthened by the cohorts, and native troops of Bosporus with Roman
arms. Thus the enemy was defeated, and they reached Soza, a town in Dandarica,
which Mithridates had abandoned, where it was thought expedient to leave
a garrison, as the temper of the people was uncertain. Next they marched
on the Siraci, and after crossing the river Panda besieged the city of
Uspe, which stood on high ground, and had the defence of wall and fosses;
only the walls, not being of stone, but of hurdles and wicker-work with
earth between, were too weak to resist an assault. Towers were raised to
a greater height as a means of annoying the besieged with brands and darts.
Had not night stopped the conflict, the siege would have been begun and
finished within one day. 
[12.17] Next day they sent an embassy
asking mercy for the freeborn, and offering ten thousand slaves. As it
would have been inhuman to slay the prisoners, and very difficult to keep
them under guard, the conquerors rejected the offer, preferring that they
should perish by the just doom of war. The signal for massacre was therefore
given to the soldiers, who had mounted the walls by scaling ladders. The
destruction of Uspe struck terror into the rest of the people, who thought
safety impossible when they saw how armies and ramparts, heights and difficult
positions, rivers and cities, alike yielded to their foe. And so Zorsines,
having long considered whether he should still have regard to the fallen
fortunes of Mithridates or to the kingdom of his fathers, and having at
last preferred his country's interests, gave hostages and prostrated himself
before the emperor's image, to the great glory of the Roman army, which
all men knew to have come after a bloodless victory within three days'
march of the river Tanais. In their return however fortune was not equally
favourable; some of their vessels, as they were sailing back, were driven
on the shores of the Tauri and cut off by the barbarians, who slew the
commander of a cohort and several centurions. 
[12.18] Meanwhile Mithridates, finding
arms an unavailing resource, considered on whose mercy he was to throw
himself. He feared his brother Cotys, who had once been a traitor, then
become his open enemy. No Roman was on the spot of authority sufficient
to make his promises highly valued. So he turned to Eunones, who had no
personal animosity against him, and had been lately strengthened by his
alliance with us. Adapting his dress and expression of countenance as much
as possible to his present condition, he entered the palace, and throwing
himself at the feet of Eunones he exclaimed, "Mithridates, whom the
Romans have sought so many years by land and sea, stands before you by
his own choice. Deal as you please with the descendant of the great Achaemenes,
the only glory of which enemies have not robbed me." 
[12.19] The great name of Mithridates,
his reverse, his prayer, full of dignity, deeply affected Eunones. He raised
the suppliant, and commended him for having chosen the nation of the Adorsi
and his own good faith in suing for mercy. He sent at the same time envoys
to Caesar with a letter to this effect, that friendship between emperors
of Rome and sovereigns of powerful peoples was primarily based on a similarity
of fortune, and that between himself and Claudius there was the tie of
a common victory. Wars had glorious endings, whenever matters were settled
by an amnesty. The conquered Zorsines had on this principle been deprived
of nothing. For Mithridates, as he deserved heavier punishment, he asked
neither power nor dominions, only that he might not be led in triumph,
and pay the penalty of death. 
[12.20] Claudius, though merciful
to foreign princes, was yet in doubt whether it were better to receive
the captive with a promise of safety or to claim his surrender by the sword.
To this last he was urged by resentment at his wrongs, and by thirst for
vengeance. On the other hand it was argued that it would be undertaking
a war in a country without roads, on a harbourless sea, against warlike
kings and wandering tribes, on a barren soil; that a weary disgust would
come of tardy movements, and perils of precipitancy; that the glory of
victory would be small, while much disgrace would ensue on defeat. Why
should not the emperor seize the offer and spare the exile, whose punishment
would be the greater, the longer he lived in poverty? Moved by these considerations,
Claudius wrote to Eunones that Mithridates had certainly merited an extreme
and exemplary penalty, which he was not wanting in power to inflict, but
it had been the principle of his ancestors to show as much forbearance
to a suppliant as they showed persistence against a foe. As for triumphs,
they were won over nations and kings hitherto unconquered. 
[12.21] After this, Mithridates was
given up and brought to Rome by Junius Cilo, the procurator of Pontus.
There in the emperor's presence he was said to have spoken too proudly
for his position, and words uttered by him to the following effect became
the popular talk: "I have not been sent, but have come back to you;
if you do not believe me, let me go and pursue me." He stood too with
fearless countenance when he was exposed to the people's gaze near the
Rostra, under military guard. To Cilo and Aquila were voted, respectively,
the consular and praetorian decorations. 
[12.22] In the same consulship, Agrippina,
who was terrible in her hatred and detested Lollia, for having competed
with her for the emperor's hand, planned an accusation, through an informer
who was to tax her with having consulted astrologers and magicians and
the image of the Clarian Apollo, about the imperial marriage. Upon this,
Claudius, without hearing the accused, first reminded the Senate of her
illustrious rank, that the sister of Lucius Volusius was her mother, Cotta
Messalinus her granduncle, Memmius Regulus formerly her husband (for of
her marriage to Caius Caesar he purposely said nothing), and then added
that she had mischievous designs on the State, and must have the means
of crime taken from her. Consequently, her property should be confiscated,
and she herself banished from Italy. Thus out of immense wealth only five
million sesterces were left to the exile. Calpurnia too, a lady of high
rank, was ruined, simply because the emperor had praised her beauty in
a casual remark, without any passion for her. And so Agrippina's resentment
stopped short of extreme vengeance. A tribune was despatched to Lollia,
who was to force her to suicide. Next on the prosecution of the Bithynians,
Cadius Rufus, was condemned under the law against extortion. 
[12.23] Narbon Gaul, for its special
reverence of the Senate, received a privilege. Senators belonging to the
province, without seeking the emperor's approval, were to be allowed to
visit their estates, a right enjoyed by Sicily. Ituraea and Judaea, on
the death of their kings, Sohaemus and Agrippa, were annexed to the province
of Syria. It was also decided that the augury of the public safety, which
for twenty-five years had been neglected, should be revived and henceforth
observed. The emperor likewise widened the sacred precincts of the capital,
in conformity with the ancient usage, according to which, those who had
enlarged the empire were permitted also to extend the boundaries of Rome.
But Roman generals, even after the conquest of great nations, had never
exercised this right, except Lucius Sulla and the Divine Augustus. 
[12.24] There are various popular
accounts of the ambitious and vainglorious efforts of our kings in this
matter. Still, I think, it is interesting to know accurately the original
plan of the precinct, as it was fixed by Romulus. From the ox market, where
we see the brazen statue of a bull, because that animal is yoked to the
plough, a furrow was drawn to mark out the town, so as to embrace the great
altar of Hercules; then, at regular intervals, stones were placed along
the foot of the Palatine hill to the altar of Consus, soon afterwards,
to the old Courts, and then to the chapel of Larunda. The Roman forum and
the Capitol were not, it was supposed, added to the city by Romulus, but
by Titus Tatius. In time, the precinct was enlarged with the growth of
Rome's fortunes. The boundaries now fixed by Claudius may be easily recognized,
as they are specified in the public records. 
[12.25] In the consulship of Caius
Antistius and Marcus Suilius, the adoption of Domitius was hastened on
by the influence of Pallas. Bound to Agrippina, first as the promoter of
her marriage, then as her paramour, he still urged Claudius to think of
the interests of the State, and to provide some support for the tender
years of Britannicus. "So," he said, "it had been with the
Divine Augustus, whose stepsons, though he had grandsons to be his stay,
had been promoted; Tiberius too, though he had offspring of his own, had
adopted Germanicus. Claudius also would do well to strengthen himself with
a young prince who could share his cares with him." Overcome by these
arguments, the emperor preferred Domitius to his own son, though he was
but two years older, and made a speech in the senate, the same in substance
as the representations of his freedman. It was noted by learned men, that
no previous example of adoption into the patrician family of the Claudii
was to be found; and that from Attus Clausus there had been one unbroken
line. 
[12.26] However, the emperor received
formal thanks, and still more elaborate flattery was paid to Domitius.
A law was passed, adopting him into the Claudian family with the name of
Nero. Agrippina too was honoured with the title of Augusta. When this had
been done, there was not a person so void of pity as not to feel keen sorrow
at the position of Britannicus. Gradually forsaken by the very slaves who
waited on him, he turned into ridicule the ill-timed attentions of his
stepmother, perceiving their insincerity. For he is said to have had by
no means a dull understanding; and this is either a fact, or perhaps his
perils won him sympathy, and so he possessed the credit of it, without
actual evidence. 
[12.27] Agrippina, to show her power
even to the allied nations, procured the despatch of a colony of veterans
to the chief town of the Ubii, where she was born. The place was named
after her. Agrippa, her grandfather, had, as it happened, received this
tribe, when they crossed the Rhine, under our protection. During the same
time, there was a panic in Upper Germany through an irruption of plundering
bands of Chatti. Thereupon Lucius Pomponius, who was in command, directed
the Vangiones and Nemetes, with the allied cavalry, to anticipate the raid,
and suddenly to fall upon them from every quarter while they were dispersed.
The general's plan was backed up by the energy of the troops. These were
divided into two columns; and those who marched to the left cut off the
plunderers, just on their return, after a riotous enjoyment of their spoil,
when they were heavy with sleep. It added to the men's joy that they had
rescued from slavery after forty years some survivors of the defeat of
Varus. 
[12.28] The column which took the
right-hand and the shorter route, inflicted greater loss on the enemy who
met them, and ventured on a battle. With much spoil and glory they returned
to Mount Taunus, where Pomponius was waiting with the legions, to see whether
the Chatti, in their eagerness for vengeance, would give him a chance of
fighting. They however fearing to be hemmed in on one side by the Romans,
on the other by the Cherusci, with whom they are perpetually at feud, sent
envoys and hostages to Rome. To Pomponius was decreed the honour of a triumph;
a mere fraction of his renown with the next generation, with whom his poems
constitute his chief glory. 
[12.29] At this same time, Vannius,
whom Drusus Caesar had made king of the Suevi, was driven from his kingdom.
In the commencement of his reign he was renowned and popular with his countrymen;
but subsequently, with long possession, he became a tyrant, and the enmity
of neighbours, joined to intestine strife, was his ruin. Vibillius, king
of the Hermunduri, and Vangio and Sido, sons of a sister of Vannius, led
the movement. Claudius, though often entreated, declined to interpose by
arms in the conflict of the barbarians, and simply promised Vannius a safe
refuge in the event of his expulsion. He wrote instructions to Publius
Atellius Hister, governor of Pannonia, that he was to have his legions,
with some picked auxiliaries from the province itself, encamped on the
riverbank, as a support to the conquered and a terror to the conqueror,
who might otherwise, in the elation of success, disturb also the peace
of our empire. For an immense host of Ligii, with other tribes, was advancing,
attracted by the fame of the opulent realm which Vannius had enriched during
thirty years of plunder and of tribute. Vannius's own native force was
infantry, and his cavalry was from the Iazyges of Sarmatia; an army which
was no match for his numerous enemy. Consequently, he determined to maintain
himself in fortified positions, and protract the war. 
[12.30] But the Iazyges, who could
not endure a siege, dispersed themselves throughout the surrounding country
and rendered an engagement inevitable, as the Ligii and Hermunduri had
there rushed to the attack. So Vannius came down out of his fortresses,
and though he was defeated in battle, notwithstanding his reverse, he won
some credit by having fought with his own hand, and received wounds on
his breast. He then fled to the fleet which was awaiting him on the Danube,
and was soon followed by his adherents, who received grants of land and
were settled in Pannonia. Vangio and Sido divided his kingdom between them;
they were admirably loyal to us, and among their subjects, whether the
cause was in themselves or in the nature of despotism, much loved, while
seeking to acquire power, and yet more hated when they had acquired it.

[12.31] Meanwhile, in Britain, Publius
Ostorius, the propraetor, found himself confronted by disturbance. The
enemy had burst into the territories of our allies with all the more fury,
as they imagined that a new general would not march against them with winter
beginning and with an army of which he knew nothing. Ostorius, well aware
that first events are those which produce alarm or confidence, by a rapid
movement of his light cohorts, cut down all who opposed him, pursued those
who fled, and lest they should rally, and so an unquiet and treacherous
peace might allow no rest to the general and his troops, he prepared to
disarm all whom he suspected, and to occupy with encampments the whole
country to the Avon and Severn. The Iceni, a powerful tribe, which war
had not weakened, as they had voluntarily joined our alliance, were the
first to resist. At their instigation the surrounding nations chose as
a battlefield a spot walled in by a rude barrier, with a narrow approach,
impenetrable to cavalry. Through these defences the Roman general, though
he had with him only the allied troops, without the strength of the legions,
attempted to break, and having assigned their positions to his cohorts,
he equipped even his cavalry for the work of infantry. Then at a given
signal they forced the barrier, routing the enemy who were entangled in
their own defences. The rebels, conscious of their guilt, and finding escape
barred, performed many noble feats. In this battle, Marius Ostorius, the
general's son, won the reward for saving a citizen's life. 
[12.32] The defeat of the Iceni quieted
those who were hesitating between war and peace. Then the army was marched
against the Cangi; their territory was ravaged, spoil taken everywhere
without the enemy venturing on an engagement, or if they attempted to harass
our march by stealthy attacks, their cunning was always punished. And now
Ostorius had advanced within a little distance of the sea, facing the island
Hibernia, when feuds broke out among the Brigantes and compelled the general's
return, for it was his fixed purpose not to undertake any fresh enterprise
till he had consolidated his previous successes. The Brigantes indeed,
when a few who were beginning hostilities had been slain and the rest pardoned,
settled down quietly; but on the Silures neither terror nor mercy had the
least effect; they persisted in war and could be quelled only by legions
encamped in their country. That this might be the more promptly effected,
a colony of a strong body of veterans was established at Camulodunum on
the conquered lands, as a defence against the rebels, and as a means of
imbuing the allies with respect for our laws. 
[12.33] The army then marched against
the Silures, a naturally fierce people and now full of confidence in the
might of Caractacus, who by many an indecisive and many a successful battle
had raised himself far above all the other generals of the Britons. Inferior
in military strength, but deriving an advantage from the deceptiveness
of the country, he at once shifted the war by a stratagem into the territory
of the Ordovices, where, joined by all who dreaded peace with us, he resolved
on a final struggle. He selected a position for the engagement in which
advance and retreat alike would be difficult for our men and comparatively
easy for his own, and then on some lofty hills, wherever their sides could
be approached by a gentle slope, he piled up stones to serve as a rampart.
A river too of varying depth was in his front, and his armed bands were
drawn up before his defences. 
[12.34] Then too the chieftains of
the several tribes went from rank to rank, encouraging and confirming the
spirit of their men by making light of their fears, kindling their hopes,
and by every other warlike incitement. As for Caractacus, he flew hither
and thither, protesting that that day and that battle would be the beginning
of the recovery of their freedom, or of everlasting bondage. He appealed,
by name, to their forefathers who had driven back the dictator Caesar,
by whose valour they were free from the Roman axe and tribute, and still
preserved inviolate the persons of their wives and of their children. While
he was thus speaking, the host shouted applause; every warrior bound himself
by his national oath not to shrink from weapons or wounds. 
[12.35] Such enthusiasm confounded
the Roman general. The river too in his face, the rampart they had added
to it, the frowning hilltops, the stern resistance and masses of fighting
men everywhere apparent, daunted him. But his soldiers insisted on battle,
exclaiming that valour could overcome all things; and the prefects and
tribunes, with similar language, stimulated the ardour of the troops. Ostorius
having ascertained by a survey the inaccessible and the assailable points
of the position, led on his furious men, and crossed the river without
difficulty. When he reached the barrier, as long as it was a fight with
missiles, the wounds and the slaughter fell chiefly on our soldiers; but
when he had formed the military testudo, and the rude, ill-compacted fence
of stones was torn down, and it was an equal hand-to-hand engagement, the
barbarians retired to the heights. Yet even there, both light and heavy-armed
soldiers rushed to the attack; the first harassed the foe with missiles,
while the latter closed with them, and the opposing ranks of the Britons
were broken, destitute as they were of the defence of breast-plates or
helmets. When they faced the auxiliaries, they were felled by the swords
and javelins of our legionaries; if they wheeled round, they were again
met by the sabres and spears of the auxiliaries. It was a glorious victory;
the wife and daughter of Caractacus were captured, and his brothers too
were admitted to surrender. 
[12.36] There is seldom safety for
the unfortunate, and Caractacus, seeking the protection of Cartismandua,
queen of the Brigantes, was put in chains and delivered up to the conquerors,
nine years after the beginning of the war in Britain. His fame had spread
thence, and travelled to the neighbouring islands and provinces, and was
actually celebrated in Italy. All were eager to see the great man, who
for so many years had defied our power. Even at Rome the name of Caractacus
was no obscure one; and the emperor, while he exalted his own glory, enhanced
the renown of the vanquished. The people were summoned as to a grand spectacle;
the praetorian cohorts were drawn up under arms in the plain in front of
their camp; then came a procession of the royal vassals, and the ornaments
and neck-chains and the spoils which the king had won in wars with other
tribes, were displayed. Next were to be seen his brothers, his wife and
daughter; last of all, Caractacus himself. All the rest stooped in their
fear to abject supplication; not so the king, who neither by humble look
nor speech sought compassion. 
[12.37] When he was set before the
emperor's tribunal, he spoke as follows: "Had my moderation in prosperity
been equal to my noble birth and fortune, I should have entered this city
as your friend rather than as your captive; and you would not have disdained
to receive, under a treaty of peace, a king descended from illustrious
ancestors and ruling many nations. My present lot is as glorious to you
as it is degrading to myself. I had men and horses, arms and wealth. What
wonder if I parted with them reluctantly? If you Romans choose to lord
it over the world, does it follow that the world is to accept slavery?
Were I to have been at once delivered up as a prisoner, neither my fall
nor your triumph would have become famous. My punishment would be followed
by oblivion, whereas, if you save my life, I shall be an everlasting memorial
of your clemency." Upon this the emperor granted pardon to Caractacus,
to his wife, and to his brothers. Released from their bonds, they did homage
also to Agrippina who sat near, conspicuous on another throne, in the same
language of praise and gratitude. It was indeed a novelty, quite alien
to ancient manners, for a woman to sit in front of Roman standards. In
fact, Agrippina boasted that she was herself a partner in the empire which
her ancestors had won. 
[12.38] The Senate was then assembled,
and speeches were delivered full of pompous eulogy on the capture of Caractacus.
It was as glorious, they said, as the display of Syphax by Scipio, or of
Perses by Lucius Paulus, or indeed of any captive prince by any of our
generals to the people of Rome. Triumphal distinctions were voted to Ostorius,
who thus far had been successful, but soon afterwards met with reverses;
either because, when Caractacus was out of the way, our discipline was
relaxed under an impression that the war was ended, or because the enemy,
out of compassion for so great a king, was more ardent in his thirst for
vengeance. Instantly they rushed from all parts on the camp-prefect, and
legionary cohorts left to establish fortified positions among the Silures,
and had not speedy succour arrived from towns and fortresses in the neighbourhood,
our forces would then have been totally destroyed. Even as it was, the
camp-prefect, with eight centurions, and the bravest of the soldiers, were
slain; and shortly afterwards, a foraging party of our men, with some cavalry
squadrons sent to their support, was utterly routed. 
[12.39] Ostorius then deployed his
light cohorts, but even thus he did not stop the flight, till our legions
sustained the brunt of the battle. Their strength equalized the conflict,
which after a while was in our favour. The enemy fled with trifling loss,
as the day was on the decline. Now began a series of skirmishes, for the
most part like raids, in woods and morasses, with encounters due to chance
or to courage, to mere heedlessness or to calculation, to fury or to lust
of plunder, under directions from the officers, or sometimes even without
their knowledge. Conspicuous above all in stubborn resistance were the
Silures, whose rage was fired by words rumoured to have been spoken by
the Roman general, to the effect, that as the Sugambri had been formerly
destroyed or transplanted into Gaul, so the name of the Silures ought to
be blotted out. Accordingly they cut off two of our auxiliary cohorts,
the rapacity of whose officers let them make incautious forays; and by
liberal gifts of spoil and prisoners to the other tribes, they were luring
them too into revolt, when Ostorius, worn out by the burden of his anxieties,
died, to the joy of the enemy, who thought that a campaign at least, though
not a single battle, had proved fatal to general whom none could despise.

[12.40] The emperor on hearing of
the death of his representative appointed Aulus Didius in his place, that
the province might not be left without a governor. Didius, though he quickly
arrived, found matters far from prosperous, for the legion under the command
of Manlius Valens had meanwhile been defeated, and the disaster had been
exaggerated by the enemy to alarm the new general, while he again magnified
it, that he might win the more glory by quelling the movement or have a
fairer excuse if it lasted. This loss too had been inflicted on us by the
Silures, and they were scouring the country far and wide, till Didius hurried
up and dispersed them. After the capture of Caractacus, Venutius of the
Brigantes, as I have already mentioned, was pre-eminent in military skill;
he had long been loyal to Rome and had been defended by our arms while
he was united in marriage to the queen Cartismandua. Subsequently a quarrel
broke out between them, followed instantly by war, and he then assumed
a hostile attitude also towards us. At first, however, they simply fought
against each other, and Cartismandua by cunning stratagems captured the
brothers and kinsfolk of Venutius. This enraged the enemy, who were stung
with shame at the prospect of falling under the dominion of a woman. The
flower of their youth, picked out for war, invaded her kingdom. This we
had foreseen; some cohorts were sent to her aid and a sharp contest followed,
which was at first doubtful but had a satisfactory termination. The legion
under the command of Caesius Nasica fought with a similar result. For Didius,
burdened with years and covered with honours, was content with acting through
his officers and merely holding back the enemy. These transactions, though
occurring under two propraetors, and occupying several years, I have closely
connected, lest, if related separately, they might be less easily remembered.
I now return to the chronological order. 
[12.41] In the fifth consulship of
Tiberius Claudius with Sextius Cornelius Orfitus for his colleague, Nero
was prematurely invested with the dress of manhood, that he might be thought
qualified for political life. The emperor willingly complied with the flatteries
of the Senate who wished Nero to enter on the consulship in his twentieth
year, and meanwhile, as consul-elect, to have pro-consular authority beyond
the limits of the capital with the title of "prince of the youth of
Rome." A donative was also given to the soldiery in Nero's name, and
presents to the city populace. At the games too of the circus which were
then being celebrated to win for him popular favour, Britannicus wore the
dress of boyhood, Nero the triumphal robe, as they rode in the procession.
The people would thus behold the one with the decorations of a general,
the other in a boy's habit, and would accordingly anticipate their respective
destinies. At the same time those of the centurions and tribunes who pitied
the lot of Britannicus were removed, some on false pretexts, others by
way of a seeming compliment. Even of the freedmen, all who were of incorruptible
fidelity were discarded on the following provocation. Once when they met,
Nero greeted Britannicus by that name and was greeted in return as Domitius.
Agrippina reported this to her husband, with bitter complaint, as the beginning
of a quarrel, as implying, in fact, contempt of Nero's adoption and a cancelling
at home of the Senate's decree and the people's vote. She said, too, that,
if the perversity of such malignant suggestions were not checked, it would
issue in the ruin of the State. Claudius, enraged by what he took as a
grave charge, punished with banishment or death all his son's best instructors,
and set persons appointed by his stepmother to have the care of him. 
[12.42] Still Agrippina did not yet
dare to attempt her greatest scheme, unless Lusius Geta and Rufius Crispinus
were removed from the command of the praetorian cohorts; for she thought
that they cherished Messalina's memory and were devoted to her children.
Accordingly, as the emperor's wife persistently affirmed that faction was
rife among these cohorts through the rivalry of the two officers, and that
there would be stricter discipline under one commander, the appointment
was transferred to Burrus Afranius, who had a brilliant reputation as a
soldier, but knew well to whose wish he owed his promotion. Agrippina,
too, continued to exalt her own dignity; she would enter the Capitol in
a chariot, a practice, which being allowed of old only to the priests and
sacred images, increased the popular reverence for a woman who up to this
time was the only recorded instance of one who, an emperor's daughter,
was sister, wife, and mother of a sovereign. Meanwhile her foremost champion,
Vitellius, in the full tide of his power and in extreme age (so uncertain
are the fortunes of the great) was attacked by an accusation of which Junius
Lupus, a senator, was the author. He was charged with treason and designs
on the throne. The emperor would have lent a ready ear, had not Agrippina,
by threats rather than entreaties, induced him to sentence the accuser
to outlawry. This was all that Vitellius desired. 
[12.43] Several prodigies occurred
in that year. Birds of evil omen perched on the Capitol; houses were thrown
down by frequent shocks of earthquake, and as the panic spread, all the
weak were trodden down in the hurry and confusion of the crowd. Scanty
crops too, and consequent famine were regarded as a token of calamity.
Nor were there merely whispered complaints; while Claudius was administering
justice, the populace crowded round him with a boisterous clamour and drove
him to a corner of the forum, where they violently pressed on him till
he broke through the furious mob with a body of soldiers. It was ascertained
that Rome had provisions for no more than fifteen days, and it was through
the signal bounty of heaven and the mildness of the winter that its desperate
plight was relieved. And yet in past days Italy used to send supplies for
the legions into distant provinces, and even now it is not a barren soil
which causes distress. But we prefer to cultivate Africa and Egypt, and
trust the life of the Roman people to ships and all their risks. 
[12.44] In the same year war broke
out between the Armenians and Iberians, and was the cause of very serious
disturbances between Parthia and Rome. Vologeses was king of the Parthians;
on the mother's side, he was the offspring of a Greek concubine, and he
obtained the throne by the retirement of his brothers. Pharasmanes had
been long in possession of Iberia, and his brother, Mithridates, ruled
Armenia with our powerful support. There was a son of Pharasmanes named
Rhadamistus, tall and handsome, of singular bodily strength, trained in
all the accomplishments of his countrymen and highly renowned among his
neighbours. He boasted so arrogantly and persistently that his father's
prolonged old age kept back from him the little kingdom of Iberia as to
make no concealment of his ambition. Pharasmanes accordingly seeing the
young prince had power in his grasp and was strong in the attachment of
his people, fearing too his own declining years, tempted him with other
prospects and pointed to Armenia, which, as he reminded him, he had given
to Mithridates after driving out the Parthians. But open violence, he said,
must be deferred; artful measures, which might crush him unawares, were
better. So Rhadamistus pretended to be at feud with his father as though
his stepmother's hatred was too strong for him, and went to his uncle.
While he was treated by him like a son, with excessive kindness, he lured
the nobles of Armenia into revolutionary schemes, without the knowledge
of Mithridates, who was actually loading him with honours. 
[12.45] He then assumed a show of
reconciliation with his father, to whom he returned, telling him all that
could be accomplished by treachery was now ready and that he must complete
the affair by the sword. Meanwhile Pharasmanes invented pretexts for war;
when he was fighting with the king of the Albanians and appealing to the
Romans for aid, his brother, he said, had opposed him, and he would now
avenge that wrong by his destruction. At the same time he gave a large
army to his son, who by a sudden invasion drove Mithridates in terror from
the open country and forced him into the fortress of Gorneas, which was
strongly situated and garrisoned by some soldiers under the command of
Caelius Pollio, a camp-prefect, and Casperius, a centurion. There is nothing
of which barbarians are so ignorant as military engines and the skilful
management of sieges, while that is a branch of military science which
we especially understand. And so Rhadamistus having attempted the fortified
walls in vain or with loss, began a blockade, and, finding that his assaults
were despised, tried to bribe the rapacity of the camp-prefect. Casperius
protested earnestly against the overthrow of an allied king and of Armenia,
the gift of the Roman people, through iniquity and greed of gain. At last,
as Pollio pleaded the overpowering numbers of the enemy and Rhadamistus
the orders of his father, the centurion stipulated for a truce and retired,
intending, if he could not deter Pharasmanes from further hostilities,
to inform Ummidius Quadratus, the governor of Syria, of the state of Armenia.

[12.46] By the centurion's departure
the camp prefect was released, so to say, from surveillance; and he now
urged Mithridates to conclude a treaty. He reminded him of the tie of brotherhood,
of the seniority in age of Pharasmanes, and of their other bonds of kindred,
how he was united by marriage to his brother's daughter, and was himself
the father-in-law of Rhadamistus. "The Iberians," he said, "were
not against peace, though for the moment they were the stronger; the perfidy
of the Armenians was notorious, and he had nothing to fall back on but
a fortress without stores; so he must not hesitate to prefer a bloodless
negotiation to arms." As Mithridates wavered, and suspected the intentions
of the camp-prefect, because he had seduced one of the king's concubines
and was reputed a man who could be bribed into any wickedness, Casperius
meantime went to Pharasmanes, and required of him that the Iberians should
raise the blockade. Pharasmanes, to his face, replied vaguely and often
in a conciliatory tone, while by secret messages he recommended Rhadamistus
to hurry on the siege by all possible means. Then the price of infamy was
raised, and Pollio by secret corruption induced the soldiers to demand
peace and to threaten that they would abandon the garrison. Under this
compulsion, Mithridates agreed to a day and a place for negotiation and
quitted the fortress. 
[12.47] Rhadamistus at first threw
himself into his embraces, feigning respect and calling him father-in-law
and parent. He swore an oath too that he would do him no violence either
by the sword or by poison. At the same time he drew him into a neighbouring
grove, where he assured him that the appointed sacrifice was prepared for
the confirmation of peace in the presence of the gods. It is a custom of
these princes, whenever they join alliance, to unite their right hands
and bind together the thumbs in a tight knot; then, when the blood has
flowed into the extremities, they let it escape by a slight puncture and
suck it in turn. Such a treaty is thought to have a mysterious sanctity,
as being sealed with the blood of both parties. On this occasion he who
was applying the knot pretended that it had fallen off, and suddenly seizing
the knees of Mithridates flung him to the ground. At the same moment a
rush was made by a number of persons, and chains were thrown round him.
Then he was dragged along by a fetter, an extreme degradation to a barbarian;
and soon the common people, whom he had held under a harsh sway, heaped
insults on him with menacing gestures, though some, on the contrary, pitied
such a reverse of fortune. His wife followed him with his little children,
and filled every place with her wailings. They were hidden away in different
covered carriages till the orders of Pharasmanes were distinctly ascertained.
The lust of rule was more to him than his brother and his daughter, and
his heart was steeled to any wickedness. Still he spared his eyes the seeing
them slain before his face. Rhadamistus too, seemingly mindful of his oath,
neither unsheathed the sword nor used poison against his sister and uncle,
but had them thrown on the ground and then smothered them under a mass
of heavy clothes. Even the sons of Mithridates were butchered for having
shed tears over their parent's murder. 
[12.48] Quadratus, learning that
Mithridates had been betrayed and that his kingdom was in the hands of
his murderers, summoned a council, and, having informed them of what had
occurred, consulted them whether he should take vengeance. Few cared for
the honour of the State; most argued in favour of a safe course, saying
"that any crime in a foreign country was to be welcomed with joy,
and that the seeds of strife ought to be actually sown, on the very principle
on which Roman emperors had often under a show of generosity given away
this same kingdom of Armenia to excite the minds of the barbarians. Rhadamistus
might retain his ill-gotten gains, as long as he was hated and infamous;
for this was more to Rome's interest than for him to have succeeded with
glory." To this view they assented, but that they might not be thought
to have approved the crime and receive contrary orders from the emperor,
envoys were sent to Pharasmanes, requiring him to withdraw from Armenian
territory and remove his son. 
[12.49] Julius Pelignus was then
procurator of Cappadocia, a man despised alike for his feebleness of mind
and his grotesque personal appearance. He was however very intimate with
Claudius, who, when in private life, used to beguile the dullness of his
leisure with the society of jesters. This Pelignus collected some provincial
auxiliaries, apparently with the design of recovering Armenia, but, while
he plundered allies instead of enemies, finding himself, through the desertion
of his men and the raids of the barbarians, utterly defenceless, he went
to Rhadamistus, whose gifts so completely overcame him that he positively
encouraged him to assume the ensigns of royalty, and himself assisted at
the ceremony, authorizing and abetting. When the disgraceful news had spread
far and wide, lest the world might judge of other governors by Pelignus,
Helvidius Priscus was sent in command of a legion to regulate, according
to circumstances, the disordered state of affairs. He quickly crossed Mount
Taurus, and had restored order to a great extent more by moderation than
by force, when he was ordered to return to Syria, that nothing might arise
to provoke a war with Parthia. 
[12.50] For Vologeses, thinking that
an opportunity presented itself of invading Armenia, which, though the
possession of his ancestors, was now through a monstrous crime held by
a foreign prince, raised an army and prepared to establish Tiridates on
the throne, so that not a member of his house might be without kingly power.
On the advance of the Parthians, the Iberians dispersed without a battle,
and the Armenian cities, Artaxata and Tigranocerta, submitted to the yoke.
Then a frightful winter or deficient supplies, with pestilence arising
from both causes, forced Vologeses to abandon his present plans. Armenia
was thus again without a king, and was invaded by Rhadamistus, who was
now fiercer than ever, looking on the people as disloyal and sure to rebel
on the first opportunity. They however, though accustomed to be slaves,
suddenly threw off their tameness and gathered round the palace in arms.

[12.51] Rhadamistus had no means
of escape but in the swiftness of the horses which bore him and his wife
away. Pregnant as she was, she endured, somehow or other, out of fear of
the enemy and love of her husband, the first part of the flight, but after
a while, when she felt herself shaken by its continuous speed, she implored
to be rescued by an honourable death from the shame of captivity. He at
first embraced, cheered, and encouraged her, now admiring her heroism,
now filled with a sickening apprehension at the idea of her being left
to any man's mercy. Finally, urged by the intensity of his love and familiarity
with dreadful deeds, he unsheathed his scymitar, and having stabbed her,
dragged her to the bank of the Araxes and committed her to the stream,
so that her very body might be swept away. Then in headlong flight he hurried
to Iberia, his ancestral kingdom. Zenobia meanwhile (this was her name),
as she yet breathed and showed signs of life on the calm water at the river's
edge, was perceived by some shepherds, who inferring from her noble appearance
that she was no base-born woman, bound up her wound and applied to it their
rustic remedies. As soon as they knew her name and her adventure, they
conveyed her to the city of Artaxata, whence she was conducted at the public
charge to Tiridates, who received her kindly and treated her as a royal
person. 
[12.52] In the consulship of Faustus
Sulla and Salvius Otho, Furius Scribonianus was banished on the ground
that he was consulting the astrologers about the emperor's death. His mother,
Junia, was included in the accusation, as one who still resented the misfortune
of exile which she had suffered in the past. His father, Camillus, had
raised an armed insurrection in Dalmatia, and the emperor in again sparing
a hostile family sought the credit of clemency. But the exile did not live
long after this; whether he was cut off by a natural death, or by poison,
was matter of conflicting rumours, according to people's belief. A decree
of the Senate was then passed for the expulsion of the astrologers from
Italy, stringent but ineffectual. Next the emperor, in a speech, commended
all who, from their limited means, voluntarily retired from the Senatorian
order, while those were degraded from it who, by retaining their seats,
added effrontery to poverty. 
[12.53] During these proceedings
he proposed to the Senate a penalty on women who united themselves in marriage
to slaves, and it was decided that those who had thus demeaned themselves,
without the knowledge of the slave's master, should be reduced to slavery;
if with his consent, should be ranked as freedwomen. To Pallas, who, as
the emperor declared, was the author of this proposal, were offered on
the motion of Barea Soranus, consul-elect, the decorations of the praetorship
and fifteen million sesterces. Cornelius Scipio added that he deserved
public thanks for thinking less of his ancient nobility as a descendant
from the kings of Arcadia, than of the welfare of the State, and allowing
himself to be numbered among the emperor's ministers. Claudius assured
them that Pallas was content with the honour, and that he limited himself
to his former poverty. A decree of the Senate was publicly inscribed on
a bronze tablet, heaping the praises of primitive frugality on a freedman,
the possessor of three hundred million sesterces. 
[12.54] Not equally moderate was
his brother, surnamed Felix, who had for some time been governor of Judaea,
and thought that he could do any evil act with impunity, backed up as he
was by such power. It is true that the Jews had shown symptoms of commotion
in a seditious outbreak, and when they had heard of the assassination of
Caius, there was no hearty submission, as a fear still lingered that any
of the emperors might impose the same orders. Felix meanwhile, by ill-timed
remedies, stimulated disloyal acts; while he had, as a rival in the worst
wickedness, Ventidius Cumanus, who held a part of the province, which was
so divided that Galilea was governed by Cumanus, Samaria by Felix. The
two peoples had long been at feud, and now less than ever restrained their
enmity, from contempt of their rulers. And accordingly they plundered each
other, letting loose bands of robbers, forming ambuscades, and occasionally
fighting battles, and carrying the spoil and booty to the two procurators,
who at first rejoiced at all this, but, as the mischief grew, they interposed
with an armed force, which was cut to pieces. The flame of war would have
spread through the province, but it was saved by Quadratus, governor of
Syria. In dealing with the Jews, who had been daring enough to slay our
soldiers, there was little hesitation about their being capitally punished.
Some delay indeed was occasioned by Cumanus and Felix; for Claudius on
hearing the causes of the rebellion had given authority for deciding also
the case of these procurators. Quadratus, however, exhibited Felix as one
of the judges, admitting him to the bench with the view of cowing the ardour
of the prosecutors. And so Cumanus was condemned for the crimes which the
two had committed, and tranquillity was restored to the province. 
[12.55] Not long afterwards some
tribes of the wild population of Cilicia, known as the Clitae, which had
often been in commotion, established a camp, under a leader Troxobor, on
their rocky mountains, whence rushing down on the coast, and on the towns,
they dared to do violence to the farmers and townsfolk, frequently even
to the merchants and shipowners. They besieged the city Anemurium, and
routed some troopers sent from Syria to its rescue under the command of
Curtius Severus; for the rough country in the neighbourhood, suited as
it is for the fighting of infantry, did not allow of cavalry operations.
After a time, Antiochus, king of that coast, having broken the unity of
the barbarian forces, by cajolery of the people and treachery to their
leader, slew Troxobor and a few chiefs, and pacified the rest by gentle
measures. 
[12.56] About the same time, the
mountain between Lake Fucinus and the river Liris was bored through, and
that this grand work might be seen by a multitude of visitors, preparations
were made for a naval battle on the lake, just as formerly Augustus exhibited
such a spectacle, in a basin he had made this side the Tiber, though with
light vessels, and on a smaller scale. Claudius equipped galleys with three
and four banks of oars, and nineteen thousand men; he lined the circumference
of the lake with rafts, that there might be no means of escape at various
points, but he still left full space for the strength of the crews, the
skill of the pilots, the impact of the vessels, and the usual operations
of a seafight. On the raft stood companies of the praetorian cohorts and
cavalry, with a breastwork in front of them, from which catapults and balistas
might be worked. The rest of the lake was occupied by marines on decked
vessels. An immense multitude from the neighbouring towns, others from
Rome itself, eager to see the sight or to show respect to the emperor,
crowded the banks, the hills, and mountain tops, which thus resembled a
theatre. The emperor, with Agrippina seated near him, presided; he wore
a splendid military cloak, she, a mantle of cloth of gold. A battle was
fought with all the courage of brave men, though it was between condemned
criminals. After much bloodshed they were released from the necessity of
mutual slaughter. 
[12.57] When the sight was over,
the outlet of the water was opened. The careless execution of the work
was apparent, the tunnel not having been bored down so low as the bottom,
or middle of the lake. Consequently after an interval the excavations were
deepened, and to attract a crowd once more, a show of gladiators was exhibited,
with floating pontoons for an infantry engagement. A banquet too was prepared
close to the outflow of the lake, and it was the means of greatly alarming
the whole company, for the water, in the violence of its outburst, swept
away the adjoining parts, shook the more remote, and spread terror with
the tremendous crash. At the same time, Agrippina availed herself of the
emperor's fright to charge Narcissus, who had been the agent of the work,
with avarice and peculation. He too was not silent, but inveighed against
the domineering temper of her sex, and her extravagant ambition. 
[12.58] In the consulship of Didius
Junius and Quintus Haterius, Nero, now sixteen years of age, married Octavia,
the emperor's daughter. Anxious to distinguish himself by noble pursuits,
and the reputation of an orator, he advocated the cause of the people of
Ilium, and having eloquently recounted how Rome was the offspring of Troy,
and Aeneas the founder of the Julian line, with other old traditions akin
to myths, he gained for his clients exemption from all public burdens.
His pleading too procured for the colony of Bononia, which had been ruined
by a fire, a subvention of ten million sesterces. The Rhodians also had
their freedom restored to them, which had often been taken away, or confirmed,
according to their services to us in our foreign wars, or their seditious
misdeeds at home. Apamea, too, which had been shaken by an earthquake,
had its tribute remitted for five years. 
[12.59] Claudius, on the other hand,
was being prompted to exhibit the worst cruelty by the artifices of the
same Agrippina. On the accusation of Tarquitius Priscus, she ruined Statilius
Taurus, who was famous for his wealth, and at whose gardens she cast a
greedy eye. Priscus had served under Taurus in his proconsular government
of Africa, and after their return charged him with a few acts of extortion,
but particularly with magical and superstitious practices. Taurus, no longer
able to endure a false accusation and an undeserved humiliation, put a
violent end to his life before the Senate's decision was pronounced. Tarquitius
was however expelled from the Senate, a point which the senators carried,
out of hatred for the accuser, notwithstanding the intrigues of Agrippina.

[12.60] That same year the emperor
was often heard to say that the legal decisions of the commissioners of
the imperial treasury ought to have the same force as if pronounced by
himself. Lest it might be supposed that he had stumbled inadvertently into
this opinion, its principle was also secured by a decree of the Senate
on a more complete and ample scale than before. It had indeed already been
arranged by the Divine Augustus that the Roman knights who governed Egypt
should hear causes, and that their decisions were to be as binding as those
of Roman magistrates, and after a time most of the cases formerly tried
by the praetors were submitted to the knights. Claudius handed over to
them the whole administration of justice for which there had been by sedition
or war so many struggles; the Sempronian laws vesting judicial power in
the equestrian order, and those of Servilius restoring it to the Senate,
while it was for this above everything else that Marius and Sulla fought
of old. But those were days of political conflict between classes, and
the results of victory were binding on the State. Caius Oppius and Cornelius
Balbus were the first who were able, with Caesar's support, to settle conditions
of peace and terms of war. To mention after them the Matii, Vedii, and
other too influential names of Roman knights would be superfluous, when
Claudius, we know, raised freedmen whom he had set over his household to
equality with himself and with the laws. 
[12.61] Next the emperor proposed
to grant immunity from taxation to the people of Cos, and he dwelt much
on their antiquity. "The Argives or Coeus, the father of Latona, were
the earliest inhabitants of the island; soon afterwards, by the arrival
of Aesculapius, the art of the physician was introduced and was practised
with much fame by his descendants." Claudius named them one by one,
with the periods in which they had respectively flourished. He said too
that Xenophon, of whose medical skill he availed himself, was one of the
same family, and that they ought to grant his request and let the people
of Cos dwell free from all tribute in their sacred island, as a place devoted
to the sole service of their god. It was also certain that many obligations
under which they had laid Rome and joint victories with her might have
been recounted. Claudius however did not seek to veil under any external
considerations a concession he had made, with his usual good nature, to
an individual. 
[12.62] Envoys from Byzantium having
received audience, in complaining to the Senate of their heavy burdens,
recapitulated their whole history. Beginning with the treaty which they
concluded with us when we fought against that king of Macedonia whose supposed
spurious birth acquired for him the name of the Pseudo Philip, they reminded
us of the forces which they had afterwards sent against Antiochus, Perses
and Aristonicus, of the aid they had given Antonius in the pirate-war,
of their offers to Sulla, Lucullus, and Pompeius, and then of their late
services to the Caesars, when they were in occupation of a district peculiarly
convenient for the land or sea passage of generals and armies, as well
as for the conveyance of supplies. 
[12.63] It was indeed on that very
narrow strait which parts Europe from Asia, at Europe's furthest extremity,
that the Greeks built Byzantium. When they consulted the Pythian Apollo
as to where they should found a city, the oracle replied that they were
to seek a home opposite to the blind men's country. This obscure hint pointed
to the people of Chalcedon, who, though they arrived there first and saw
before others the advantageous position, chose the worse. For Byzantium
has a fruitful soil and productive seas, as immense shoals of fish pour
out of the Pontus and are driven by the sloping surface of the rocks under
water to quit the windings of the Asiatic shore and take refuge in these
harbours. Consequently the inhabitants were at first money-making and wealthy
traders, but afterwards, under the pressure of excessive burdens, they
petitioned for immunity or at least relief, and were supported by the emperor,
who argued to the Senate that, exhausted as they were by the late wars
in Thrace and Bosporus, they deserved help. So their tribute was remitted
for five years. 
[12.64] In the year of the consulship
of Marcus Asinius and Manius Acilius it was seen to be portended by a succession
of prodigies that there were to be political changes for the worse. The
soldiers' standards and tents were set in a blaze by lightning. A swarm
of bees settled on the summit of the Capitol; births of monsters, half
man, half beast, and of a pig with a hawk's talons, were reported. It was
accounted a portent that every order of magistrates had had its number
reduced, a quaestor, an aedile, a tribune, a praetor and consul having
died within a few months. But Agrippina's terror was the most conspicuous.
Alarmed by some words dropped by Claudius when half intoxicated, that it
was his destiny to have to endure his wives' infamy and at last punish
it, she determined to act without a moment's delay. First she destroyed
Lepida from motives of feminine jealousy. Lepida indeed as the daughter
of the younger Antonia, as the grandniece of Augustus, the cousin of Agrippina,
and sister of her husband Cneius, thought herself of equally high rank.
In beauty, youth, and wealth they differed but slightly. Both were shameless,
infamous, and intractable, and were rivals in vice as much as in the advantages
they had derived from fortune. It was indeed a desperate contest whether
the aunt or the mother should have most power over Nero. Lepida tried to
win the young prince's heart by flattery and lavish liberality, while Agrippina
on the other hand, who could give her son empire but could not endure that
he should be emperor, was fierce and full of menace. 
[12.65] It was charged on Lepida
that she had made attempts on the Emperor's consort by magical incantations,
and was disturbing the peace of Italy by an imperfect control of her troops
of slaves in Calabria. She was for this sentenced to death, notwithstanding
the vehement opposition of Narcissus, who, as he more and more suspected
Agrippina, was said to have plainly told his intimate friends that "his
destruction was certain, whether Britannicus or Nero were to be emperor,
but that he was under such obligations to Claudius that he would sacrifice
life to his welfare. Messalina and Silius had been convicted, and now again
there were similar grounds for accusation. If Nero were to rule, or Britannicus
succeed to the throne, he would himself have no claim on the then reigning
sovereign. Meanwhile, a stepmother's treacherous schemes were convulsing
the whole imperial house, with far greater disgrace than would have resulted
from his concealment of the profligacy of the emperor's former wife. Even
as it was, there was shamelessness enough, seeing that Pallas was her paramour,
so that no one could doubt that she held honour, modesty and her very person,
everything, in short, cheaper than sovereignty." This, and the like,
he was always saying, and he would embrace Britannicus, expressing earnest
wishes for his speedy arrival at a mature age, and would raise his hand,
now to heaven, now to the young prince, with entreaty that as he grew up,
he would drive out his father's enemies and also take vengeance on the
murderers of his mother. 
[12.66] Under this great burden of
anxiety, he had an attack of illness, and went to Sinuessa to recruit his
strength with its balmy climate and salubrious waters. Thereupon, Agrippina,
who had long decided on the crime and eagerly grasped at the opportunity
thus offered, and did not lack instruments, deliberated on the nature of
the poison to be used. The deed would be betrayed by one that was sudden
and instantaneous, while if she chose a slow and lingering poison, there
was a fear that Claudius, when near his end, might, on detecting the treachery,
return to his love for his son. She decided on some rare compound which
might derange his mind and delay death. A person skilled in such matters
was selected, Locusta by name, who had lately been condemned for poisoning,
and had long been retained as one of the tools of despotism. By this woman's
art the poison was prepared, and it was to be administered by an eunuch,
Halotus, who was accustomed to bring in and taste the dishes. 
[12.67] All the circumstances were
subsequently so well known, that writers of the time have declared that
the poison was infused into some mushrooms, a favourite delicacy, and its
effect not at the instant perceived, from the emperor's lethargic, or intoxicated
condition. His bowels too were relieved, and this seemed to have saved
him. Agrippina was thoroughly dismayed. Fearing the worst, and defying
the immediate obloquy of the deed, she availed herself of the complicity
of Xenophon, the physician, which she had already secured. Under pretence
of helping the emperor's efforts to vomit, this man, it is supposed, introduced
into his throat a feather smeared with some rapid poison; for he knew that
the greatest crimes are perilous in their inception, but well rewarded
after their consummation. 
[12.68] Meanwhile the Senate was
summoned, and prayers rehearsed by the consuls and priests for the emperor's
recovery, though the lifeless body was being wrapped in blankets with warm
applications, while all was being arranged to establish Nero on the throne.
At first Agrippina, seemingly overwhelmed by grief and seeking comfort,
clasped Britannicus in her embraces, called him the very image of his father,
and hindered him by every possible device from leaving the chamber. She
also detained his sisters, Antonia and Octavia, closed every approach to
the palace with a military guard, and repeatedly gave out that the emperor's
health was better, so that the soldiers might be encouraged to hope, and
that the fortunate moment foretold by the astrologers might arrive. 
[12.69] At last, at noon on the 13th
of October, the gates of the palace were suddenly thrown open, and Nero,
accompanied by Burrus, went forth to the cohort which was on guard after
military custom. There, at the suggestion of the commanding officer, he
was hailed with joyful shouts, and set on a litter. Some, it is said, hesitated,
and looked round and asked where Britannicus was; then, when there was
no one to lead a resistance, they yielded to what was offered them. Nero
was conveyed into the camp, and having first spoken suitably to the occasion
and promised a donative after the example of his father's bounty, he was
unanimously greeted as emperor. The decrees of the Senate followed the
voice of the soldiers, and there was no hesitation in the provinces. Divine
honours were decreed to Claudius, and his funeral rites were solemnized
on the same scale as those of Augustus; for Agrippina strove to emulate
the magnificence of her great-grandmother, Livia. But his will was not
publicly read, as the preference of the stepson to the son might provoke
a sense of wrong and angry feeling in the popular mind. 
Book 13 - (A.D. 54-58)
[13.1] THE first death under the new
emperor, that of Junius Silanus, proconsul of Asia, was, without Nero's
knowledge, planned by the treachery of Agrippina. Not that Silanus had
provoked destruction by any violence of temper, apathetic as he was, and
so utterly despised under former despotisms, that Caius Caesar used to
call him the golden sheep. The truth was that Agrippina, having contrived
the murder of his brother Lucius Silanus, dreaded his vengeance; for it
was the incessant popular talk that preference ought to be given over Nero,
who was scarcely out of his boyhood and had gained the empire by crime,
to a man of mature age, of blameless life, of noble birth, and, as a point
then much regarded, of the line of the Caesars. Silanus in fact was the
son of a great-grandson of Augustus. This was the cause of his destruction.
The agents of the deed were Publius Celer, a Roman knight, and Helius,
a freedman, men who had the charge of the emperor's domains in Asia. They
gave the proconsul poison at a banquet, too openly to escape discovery.
With no less precipitation, Narcissus, Claudius's freedman, whose quarrels
with Agrippina I have mentioned, was driven to suicide by his cruel imprisonment
and hopeless plight, even against the wishes of Nero, with whose yet concealed
vices he was wonderfully in sympathy from his rapacity and extravagance.

[13.2] And now they had proceeded
to further murders but for the opposition of Afranius Burrus and Annaeus
Seneca. These two men guided the emperor's youth with an unity of purpose
seldom found where authority is shared, and though their accomplishments
were wholly different, they had equal influence. Burrus, with his soldier's
discipline and severe manners, Seneca, with lessons of eloquence and a
dignified courtesy, strove alike to confine the frailty of the prince's
youth, should he loathe virtue, within allowable indulgences. They had
both alike to struggle against the domineering spirit of Agrippina, who
inflamed with all the passions of an evil ascendency had Pallas on her
side, at whose suggestion Claudius had ruined himself by an incestuous
marriage and a fatal adoption of a son. Nero's temper however was not one
to submit to slaves, and Pallas, by a surly arrogance quite beyond a freedman,
had provoked disgust. Still every honour was openly heaped on Agrippina,
and to a tribune who according to military custom asked the watchword,
Nero gave "the best of mothers." The Senate also decreed her
two lictors, with the office of priestess to Claudius, and voted to the
late emperor a censor's funeral, which was soon followed by deification.

[13.3] On the day of the funeral the
prince pronounced Claudius's panegyric, and while he dwelt on the antiquity
of his family and on the consulships and triumphs of his ancestors, there
was enthusiasm both in himself and his audience. The praise of his graceful
accomplishments, and the remark that during his reign no disaster had befallen
Rome from the foreigner, were heard with favour. When the speaker passed
on to his foresight and wisdom, no one could refrain from laughter, though
the speech, which was composed by Seneca, exhibited much elegance, as indeed
that famous man had an attractive genius which suited the popular ear of
the time. Elderly men who amuse their leisure with comparing the past and
the present, observed that Nero was the first emperor who needed another
man's eloquence. The dictator Caesar rivalled the greatest orators, and
Augustus had an easy and fluent way of speaking, such as became a sovereign.
Tiberius too thoroughly understood the art of balancing words, and was
sometimes forcible in the expression of his thoughts, or else intentionally
obscure. Even Caius Caesar's disordered intellect did not wholly mar his
faculty of speech. Nor did Claudius, when he spoke with preparation, lack
elegance. Nero from early boyhood turned his lively genius in other directions;
he carved, painted, sang, or practised the management of horses, occasionally
composing verses which showed that he had the rudiments of learning. 
[13.4] When he had done with his mimicries
of sorrow he entered the Senate, and having first referred to the authority
of the senators and the concurrence of the soldiery, he then dwelt on the
counsels and examples which he had to guide him in the right administration
of empire. "His boyhood," he said, "had not had the taint
of civil wars or domestic feuds, and he brought with him no hatreds, no
sense of wrong, no desire of vengeance." He then sketched the plan
of his future government, carefully avoiding anything which had kindled
recent odium. "He would not," he said, "be judge in all
cases, or, by confining the accuser and the accused within the same walls,
let the power of a few favourites grow dangerously formidable. In his house
there should be nothing venal, nothing open to intrigue; his private establishment
and the State should be kept entirely distinct. The Senate should retain
its ancient powers; Italy and the State-provinces should plead their causes
before the tribunals of the consuls, who would give them a hearing from
the senators. Of the armies he would himself take charge, as specially
entrusted to him." 
[13.5] He was true to his word and
several arrangements were made on the Senate's authority. No one was to
receive a fee or a present for pleading a cause; the quaestors-elect were
not to be under the necessity of exhibiting gladiatorial shows. This was
opposed by Agrippina, as a reversal of the legislation of Claudius, but
it was carried by the senators who used to be summoned to the palace, in
order that she might stand close to a hidden door behind them, screened
by a curtain which was enough to shut her out of sight, but not out of
hearing. When envoys from Armenia were pleading their nation's cause before
Nero, she actually was on the point of mounting the emperor's tribunal
and of presiding with him; but Seneca, when every one else was paralysed
with alarm, motioned to the prince to go and meet his mother. Thus, by
an apparently dutiful act, a scandalous scene was prevented. 
[13.6] With the close of the year
came disquieting rumours that the Parthians had again broken their bounds
and were ravaging Armenia, from which they had driven Rhadamistus, who,
having often possessed himself of the kingdom and as often been thrust
out of it, had now relinquished hostilities. Rome with its love of talking
began to ask how a prince of scarce seventeen was to encounter and avert
this tremendous peril, how they could fall back on one who was ruled by
a woman; or whether battles and sieges and the other operations of war
could be directed by tutors. "Some, on the contrary, argued that this
was better than it would have been, had Claudius in his feeble and spiritless
old age, when he would certainly have yielded to the bidding of slaves,
been summoned to the hardships of a campaign. Burrus, at least, and Seneca
were known to be men of very varied experience, and, as for the emperor
himself, how far was he really short of mature age, when Cneius Pompeius
and Caesar Octavianus, in their eighteenth and nineteenth years respectively,
bore the brunt of civil wars? The highest rank chiefly worked through its
prestige and its counsels more than by the sword and hand. The emperor
would give a plain proof whether he was advised by good or bad friends
by putting aside all jealousy and selecting some eminent general, rather
than by promoting out of favouritism, a rich man backed up by interest."

[13.7] Amidst this and like popular
talk, Nero ordered the young recruits levied in the adjacent provinces
to be brought up for the supply of the legions of the East, and the legions
themselves to take up a position on the Armenian frontier while two princes
of old standing, Agrippa and Antiochus, were to prepare a force for the
invasion of the Parthian territories. The Euphrates too was to be spanned
by bridges; Lesser Armenia was intrusted to Aristobulus, Sophene to Sohaemus,
each with the ensigns of royalty. There rose up at this crisis a rival
to Vologeses in his son Vardanes, and the Parthians quitted Armenia, apparently
intending to defer hostilities. 
[13.8] All this however was described
with exaggeration to the Senate, in the speeches of those members who proposed
a public thanksgiving, and that on the days of the thanksgiving the prince
should wear the triumphal robe and enter Rome in ovation, lastly, that
he should have statues on the same scale as those of Mars the Avenger,
and in the same temple. To their habitual flattery was added a real joy
at his having appointed Domitius Corbulo to secure Armenia, thus opening,
as it seemed, a field to merit. The armies of the East were so divided
that half the auxiliaries and two legions were to remain in the province
of Syria under its governor, Quadratus Ummidius; while Corbulo was to have
an equal number of citizen and allied troops, together with the auxiliary
infantry and cavalry which were in winter quarters in Cappadocia. The confederate
kings were instructed to obey orders, just as the war might require. But
they had a specially strong liking for Corbulo. That general, with a view
to the prestige which in a new enterprise is supremely powerful, speedily
accomplished his march, and at Aegeae, a city of Cilicia, met Quadratus
who had advanced to the place under an apprehension that, should Corbulo
once enter Armenia to take command of the army, he would draw all eyes
on himself, by his noble stature, his imposing eloquence, and the impression
he would make, not only by his wisdom and experience, but also by the mere
display of showy attributes. 
[13.9] Meantime both sent messages
to king Vologeses, advising him to choose peace rather than war, and to
give hostages and so continue the habitual reverence of his ancestors towards
the people of Rome. Vologeses, wishing to prepare for war at an advantage,
or to rid himself of suspected rivals under the name of hostages, delivered
up some of the noblest of the Arsacids. A centurion, Insteius, sent perhaps
by Ummidius on some previous occasion, received them after an interview
with the king. Corbulo, on knowing this, ordered Arrius Varus, commander
of a cohort, to go and take the hostages. Hence arose a quarrel between
the commander and the centurion, and to stop such a scene before foreigners,
the decision of the matter was left to the hostages and to the envoys who
conducted them. They preferred Corbulo, for his recent renown, and from
a liking which even enemies felt for him. Then there was a feud between
the two generals; Ummidius complained that he was robbed of what his prudence
had achieved, while Corbulo on the other hand appealed to the fact that
Vologeses had not brought himself to offer hostages till his own appointment
to the conduct of the war turned the king's hopes into fears. Nero, to
compose their differences, directed the issue of a proclamation that for
the successes of Quadratus and Corbulo the laurel was to be added to the
imperial "fasces." I have closely connected these events, though
they extend into another consulship. 
[13.10] The emperor in the same year
asked the Senate for a statue to his father Domitius, and also that the
consular decorations might be conferred on Asconius Labeo, who had been
his guardian. Statues to himself of solid gold and silver he forbade, in
opposition to offers made, and although the Senate passed a vote that the
year should begin with the month of December, in which he was born, he
retained for its commencement, the old sacred associations of the first
of January. Nor would he allow the prosecution of Carinas Celer, a senator,
whom a slave accused, or of Julius Densus, a knight, whose partiality for
Britannicus was construed into a crime. 
[13.11] In the year of his consulship
with Lucius Antistius, when the magistrates were swearing obedience to
imperial legislation, he forbade his colleague to extend the oath to his
own enactments, for which he was warmly praised by the senators, in the
hope that his youthful spirit, elated with the glory won by trifles, would
follow on to nobler aspirations. Then came an act of mercy to Plautius
Lateranus, who had been degraded from his rank for adultery with Messalina,
and whom he now restored, assuring them of his clemency in a number of
speeches which Seneca, to show the purity of his teaching or to display
his genius, published to the world by the emperor's mouth. 
[13.12] Meanwhile the mother's influence
was gradually weakened, as Nero fell in love with a freedwoman, Acte by
name, and took into his confidence Otho and Claudius Senecio, two young
men of fashion, the first of whom was descended from a family of consular
rank, while Senecio's father was one of the emperor's freedmen. Without
the mother's knowledge, then in spite of her opposition, they had crept
into his favour by debaucheries and equivocal secrets, and even the prince's
older friends did not thwart him, for here was a girl who without harm
to any one gratified his desires, when he loathed his wife Octavia, high
born as she was, and of approved virtue, either from some fatality, or
because vice is overpoweringly attractive. It was feared too that he might
rush into outrages on noble ladies, were he debarred from this indulgence.

[13.13] Agrippina, however, raved
with a woman's fury about having a freedwoman for a rival, a slave girl
for a daughter-in-law, with like expressions. Nor would she wait till her
son repented or wearied of his passion. The fouler her reproaches, the
more powerfully did they inflame him, till completely mastered by the strength
of his desire, he threw off all respect for his mother, and put himself
under the guidance of Seneca, one of whose friends, Annaeus Serenus, had
veiled the young prince's intrigue in its beginning by pretending to be
in love with the same woman, and had lent his name as the ostensible giver
of the presents secretly sent by the emperor to the girl. Then Agrippina,
changing her tactics, plied the lad with various blandishments, and even
offered the seclusion of her chamber for the concealment of indulgences
which youth and the highest rank might claim. She went further; she pleaded
guilty to an ill-timed strictness, and handed over to him the abundance
of her wealth, which nearly approached the imperial treasures, and from
having been of late extreme in her restraint of her son, became now, on
the other hand, lax to excess. The change did not escape Nero; his most
intimate friends dreaded it, and begged him to beware of the arts of a
woman, was always daring and was now false. It happened at this time that
the emperor after inspecting the apparel in which wives and mothers of
the imperial house had been seen to glitter, selected a jewelled robe and
sent it as a gift to his mother, with the unsparing liberality of one who
was bestowing by preference on her a choice and much coveted present. Agrippina,
however, publicly declared that so far from her wardrobe being furnished
by these gifts, she was really kept out of the remainder, and that her
son was merely dividing with her what he derived wholly from herself. 
[13.14] Some there were who put even
a worse meaning on her words. And so Nero, furious with those who abetted
such arrogance in a woman, removed Pallas from the charge of the business
with which he had been entrusted by Claudius, and in which he acted, so
to say, as the controller of the throne. The story went that as he was
departing with a great retinue of attendants, the emperor rather wittily
remarked that Pallas was going to swear himself out of office. Pallas had
in truth stipulated that he should not be questioned for anything he had
done in the past, and that his accounts with the State were to be considered
as balanced. Thereupon, with instant fury, Agrippina rushed into frightful
menaces, sparing not the prince's ears her solemn protest "that Britannicus
was now of full age, he who was the true and worthy heir of his father's
sovereignty, which a son, by mere admission and adoption, was abusing in
outrages on his mother. She shrank not from an utter exposure of the wickedness
of that ill-starred house, of her own marriage, to begin with, and of her
poisoner's craft. All that the gods and she herself had taken care of was
that her stepson was yet alive; with him she would go to the camp, where
on one side should be heard the daughter of Germanicus; on the other, the
crippled Burrus and the exile Seneca, claiming, forsooth, with disfigured
hand, and a pedant's tongue, the government of the world." As she
spoke, she raised her hand in menace and heaped insults on him, as she
appealed to the deified Claudius, to the infernal shades of the Silani,
and to those many fruitless crimes. 
[13.15] Nero was confounded at this,
and as the day was near on which Britannicus would complete his fourteenth
year, he reflected, now on the domineering temper of his mother, and now
again on the character of the young prince, which a trifling circumstance
had lately tested, sufficient however to gain for him wide popularity.
During the feast of Saturn, amid other pastimes of his playmates, at a
game of lot drawing for king, the lot fell to Nero, upon which he gave
all his other companions different orders, and such as would not put them
to the blush; but when he told Britannicus to step forward and begin a
song, hoping for a laugh at the expense of a boy who knew nothing of sober,
much less of riotous society, the lad with perfect coolness commenced some
verses which hinted at his expulsion from his father's house and from supreme
power. This procured him pity, which was the more conspicuous, as night
with its merriment had stript off all disguise. Nero saw the reproach and
redoubled his hate. Pressed by Agrippina's menaces, having no charge against
his brother and not daring openly to order his murder, he meditated a secret
device and directed poison to be prepared through the agency of Julius
Pollio, tribune of one of the praetorian cohorts, who had in his custody
a woman under sentence for poisoning, Locusta by name, with a vast reputation
for crime. That every one about the person of Britannicus should care nothing
for right or honour, had long ago been provided for. He actually received
his first dose of poison from his tutors and passed it off his bowels,
as it was rather weak or so qualified as not at once to prove deadly. But
Nero, impatient at such slow progress in crime, threatened the tribune
and ordered the poisoner to execution for prolonging his anxiety while
they were thinking of the popular talk and planning their own defence.
Then they promised that death should be as sudden as if it were the hurried
work of the dagger, and a rapid poison of previously tested ingredients
was prepared close to the emperor's chamber. 
[13.16] It was customary for the
imperial princes to sit during their meals with other nobles of the same
age, in the sight of their kinsfolk, at a table of their own, furnished
somewhat frugally. There Britannicus was dining, and as what he ate and
drank was always tested by the taste of a select attendant, the following
device was contrived, that the usage might not be dropped or the crime
betrayed by the death of both prince and attendant. A cup as yet harmless,
but extremely hot and already tasted, was handed to Britannicus; then,
on his refusing it because of its warmth, poison was poured in with some
cold water, and this so penetrated his entire frame that he lost alike
voice and breath. There was a stir among the company; some, taken by surprise,
ran hither and thither, while those whose discernment was keener, remained
motionless, with their eyes fixed on Nero, who, as he still reclined in
seeming unconsciousness, said that this was a common occurrence, from a
periodical epilepsy, with which Britannicus had been afflicted from his
earliest infancy, and that his sight and senses would gradually return.
As for Agrippina, her terror and confusion, though her countenance struggled
to hide it, so visibly appeared, that she was clearly just as ignorant
as was Octavia, Britannicus's own sister. She saw, in fact, that she was
robbed of her only remaining refuge, and that here was a precedent for
parricide. Even Octavia, notwithstanding her youthful inexperience, had
learnt to hide her grief, her affection, and indeed every emotion. 
[13.17] And so after a brief pause
the company resumed its mirth. One and the same night witnessed Britannicus's
death and funeral, preparations having been already made for his obsequies,
which were on a humble scale. He was however buried in the Campus Martius,
amid storms so violent, that in the popular belief they portended the wrath
of heaven against a crime which many were even inclined to forgive when
they remembered the immemorial feuds of brothers and the impossibility
of a divided throne. It is related by several writers of the period that
many days before the murder, Nero had offered the worst insult to the boyhood
of Britannicus; so that his death could no longer seem a premature or dreadful
event, though it happened at the sacred board, without even a moment for
the embraces of his sisters, hurried on too, as it was, under the eyes
of an enemy, on the sole surviving offspring of the Claudii, the victim
first of dishonour, then of poison. The emperor apologised for the hasty
funeral by reminding people that it was the practice of our ancestors to
withdraw from view any grievously untimely death, and not to dwell on it
with panegyrics or display. For himself, he said, that as he had now lost
a brother's help, his remaining hopes centred in the State, and all the
more tenderness ought to be shown by the Senate and people towards a prince
who was the only survivor of a family born to the highest greatness. 
[13.18] He then enriched his most
powerful friends with liberal presents. Some there were who reproached
men of austere professions with having on such an occasion divided houses
and estates among themselves, like so much spoil. It was the belief of
others that a pressure had been put on them by the emperor, who, conscious
as he was of guilt, hoped for merciful consideration if he could secure
the most important men by wholesale bribery. But his mother's rage no lavish
bounty could allay. She would clasp Octavia to her arms, and have many
a secret interview with her friends; with more than her natural rapacity,
she clutched at money everywhere, seemingly for a reserve, and courteously
received tribunes and centurions. She honoured the names and virtues of
the nobles who still were left, seeking apparently a party and a leader.
Of this Nero became aware, and he ordered the departure of the military
guard now kept for the emperor's mother, as it had formerly been for the
imperial consort, along with some German troops, added as a further honour.
He also gave her a separate establishment, that throngs of visitors might
no longer wait on her, and removed her to what had been Antonia's house;
and whenever he went there himself, he was surrounded by a crowd of centurions,
and used to leave her after a hurried kiss. 
[13.19] Of all things human the most
precarious and transitory is a reputation for power which has no strong
support of its own. In a moment Agrippina's doors were deserted; there
was no one to comfort or to go near her, except a few ladies, whether out
of love or malice was doubtful. One of these was Junia Silana, whom Messalina
had driven from her husband, Caius Silius, as I have already related. Conspicuous
for her birth, her beauty, and her wantonness, she had long been a special
favourite of Agrippina, till after a while there were secret mutual dislikes,
because Sextius Africanus, a noble youth, had been deterred from marrying
Silana by Agrippina, who repeatedly spoke of her as an immodest woman in
the decline of life, not to secure Africanus for herself, but to keep the
childless and wealthy widow out of a husband's control. Silana having now
a prospect of vengeance, suborned as accusers two of her creatures, Iturius
and Calvisius, not with the old and often-repeated charges about Agrippina's
mourning the death of Britannicus or publishing the wrongs of Octavia,
but with a hint that it was her purpose to encourage in revolutionary designs
Rubellius Plautus, who his mother's side was as nearly connected as Nero
with the Divine Augustus; and then, by marrying him and making him emperor,
again seize the control of the State. All this Iturius and Calvisius divulged
to Atimetus, a freedman of Domitia, Nero's aunt. Exulting in the opportunity,
for Agrippina and Domitia were in bitter rivalry, Atimetus urged Paris,
who was himself also a freedman of Domitia, to go at once and put the charge
in the most dreadful form. 
[13.20] Night was far advanced and
Nero was still sitting over his cups, when Paris entered, who was generally
wont at such times to heighten the emperor's enjoyments, but who now wore
a gloomy expression. He went through the whole evidence in order, and so
frightened his hearer as to make him resolve not only on the destruction
of his mother and of Plautus, but also on the removal of Burrus from the
command of the guards, as a man who had been promoted by Agrippina's interest,
and was now showing his gratitude. We have it on the authority of Fabius
Rusticus that a note was written to Caecina Tuscus, intrusting to him the
charge of the praetorian cohorts, but that through Seneca's influence that
distinguished post was retained for Burrus. According to Plinius and Cluvius,
no doubt was felt about the commander's loyalty. Fabius certainly inclines
to the praise of Seneca, through whose friendship he rose to honour. Proposing
as I do to follow the consentient testimony of historians, I shall give
the differences in their narratives under the writers' names. Nero, in
his bewilderment and impatience to destroy his mother, could not be put
off till Burrus answered for her death, should she be convicted of the
crime, but "any one," he said, "much more a parent, must
be allowed a defence. Accusers there were none forthcoming; they had before
them only the word of a single person from an enemy's house, and this the
night with its darkness and prolonged festivity and everything savouring
of recklessness and folly, was enough to refute." 
[13.21] Having thus allayed the prince's
fears, they went at daybreak to Agrippina, that she might know the charges
against her, and either rebut them or suffer the penalty. Burrus fulfilled
his instructions in Seneca's presence, and some of the freedmen were present
to witness the interview. Then Burrus, when he had fully explained the
charges with the authors' names, assumed an air of menace. Instantly Agrippina,
calling up all her high spirit, exclaimed, "I wonder not that Silana,
who has never borne offspring, knows nothing of a mother's feelings. Parents
do not change their children as lightly as a shameless woman does her paramours.
And if Iturius and Calvisius, after having wasted their whole fortunes,
are now, as their last resource, repaying an old hag for their hire by
undertaking to be informers, it does not follow that I am to incur the
infamy of plotting a son's murder, or that a Caesar is to have the consciousness
of like guilt. As for Domitia's enmity, I should be thankful for it, were
she to vie with me in goodwill towards my Nero. Now through her paramour,
Atimetus, and the actor, Paris, she is, so to say, concocting a drama for
the stage. She at her Baiae was increasing the magnificence of her fishponds,
when I was planning in my counsels his adoption with a proconsul's powers
and a consul-elect's rank and every other step to empire. Only let the
man come forward who can charge me with having tampered with the praetorian
cohorts in the capital, with having sapped the loyalty of the provinces,
or, in a word, with having bribed slaves and freedmen into any wickedness.
Could I have lived with Britannicus in the possession of power? And if
Plautus or any other were to become master of the State so as to sit in
judgment on me, accusers forsooth would not be forthcoming, to charge me
not merely with a few incautious expressions prompted by the eagerness
of affection, but with guilt from which a son alone could absolve me."
There was profound excitement among those present, and they even tried
to soothe her agitation, but she insisted on an interview with her son.
Then, instead of pleading her innocence, as though she lacked confidence,
or her claims on him by way of reproach, she obtained vengeance on her
accusers and rewards for her friends. 
[13.22] The superintendence of the
corn supply was given to Faenius Rufus, the direction of the games which
the emperor was preparing, to Arruntius Stella, and the province of Egypt
to Caius Balbillus. Syria was to be assigned to Publius Anteius, but he
was soon put off by various artifices and finally detained at Rome. Silana
was banished; Calvisius and Iturius exiled for a time; Atimetus was capitally
punished, while Paris was too serviceable to the emperor's profligacy to
allow of his suffering any penalty. Plautus for the present was silently
passed over. 
[13.23] Next Pallas and Burrus were
accused of having conspired to raise Cornelius Sulla to the throne, because
of his noble birth and connection with Claudius, whose son-in-law he was
by his marriage with Antonia. The promoter of the prosecution was one Paetus,
who had become notorious by frequent purchases of property confiscated
to the exchequer and was now convicted clearly of imposture. But the proved
innocence of Pallas did Pallas did not please men so much, as his arrogance
offended them. When his freedmen, his alleged accomplices, were called,
he replied that at home he signified his wishes only by a nod or a gesture,
or, if further explanation was required, he used writing, so as not to
degrade his voice in such company. Burrus, though accused, gave his verdict
as one of the judges. The prosecutor was sentenced to exile, and the account-books
in which he was reviving forgotten claims of the exchequer, were burnt.

[13.24] At the end of the year the
cohort usually on guard during the games was withdrawn, that there might
be a greater show of freedom, that the soldiery too might be less demoralised
when no longer in contact with the licence of the theatre, and that it
might be proved whether the populace, in the absence of a guard, would
maintain their self-control. The emperor, on the advice of the augurs,
purified Rome by a lustration, as the temples of Jupiter and Minerva had
been struck by lightning. 
[13.25] In the consulship of Quintus
Volusius and Publius Scipio, there was peace abroad, but a disgusting licentiousness
at home on the part of Nero, who in a slave's disguise, so as to be unrecognized,
would wander through the streets of Rome, to brothels and taverns, with
comrades, who seized on goods exposed for sale and inflicted wounds on
any whom they encountered, some of these last knowing him so little that
he even received blows himself, and showed the marks of them in his face.
When it was notorious that the emperor was the assailant, and the insults
on men and women of distinction were multiplied, other persons too on the
strength of a licence once granted under Nero's name, ventured with impunity
on the same practices, and had gangs of their own, till night presented
the scenes of a captured city. Julius Montanus, a senator, but one who
had not yet held any office, happened to encounter the prince in the darkness,
and because he fiercely repulsed his attack and then on recognizing him
begged for mercy, as though this was a reproach, forced to destroy himself.
Nero was for the future more timid, and surrounded himself with soldiers
and a number of gladiators, who, when a fray began on a small scale and
seemed a private affair, were to let it alone, but, if the injured persons
resisted stoutly, they rushed in with their swords. He also turned the
licence of the games and the enthusiasm for the actors into something like
a battle by the impunity he allowed, and the rewards he offered, and especially
by looking on himself, sometimes concealed, but often in public view, till,
with the people at strife and the fear of a worse commotion, the only remedy
which could be devised was the expulsion of the offending actors from Italy,
and the presence once more of the soldiery in the theatre. 
[13.26] During the same time there
was a discussion in the Senate on the misconduct of the freedmen class,
and a strong demand was made that, as a check on the undeserving, patrons
should have the right of revoking freedom. There were several who supported
this. But the consuls did not venture to put the motion without the emperor's
knowledge, though they recorded the Senate's general opinion, to see whether
he would sanction the arrangement, considering that only a few were opposed
to it, while some loudly complained that the irreverent spirit which freedom
had fostered, had broken into such excess, that freedmen would ask their
patrons' advice as to whether they should treat them with violence, or,
as legally, their equals, and would actually threaten them with blows,
at the same time recommending them not to punish. "What right,"
it was asked, "was conceded to an injured patron but that of temporarily
banishing the freedman a hundred miles off to the shores of Campania? In
everything else, legal proceedings were equal and the same for both. Some
weapon ought to be given to the patrons which could not be despised. It
would be no grievance for the enfranchised to have to keep their freedom
by the same respectful behaviour which had procured it for them. But, as
for notorious offenders, they deserved to be dragged back into slavery,
that fear might be a restraint where kindness had had no effect."

[13.27] It was argued in reply that,
though the guilt of a few ought to be the ruin of the men themselves, there
should be no diminution of the rights of the entire class. "For it
was," they contended, "a widely diffused body; from it, the city
tribes, the various public functionaries, the establishments of the magistrates
and priests were for the most part supplied, as well as the cohorts of
the city-guard; very many too of the knights and several of the senators
derived their origin from no other source. If freedmen were to be a separate
class, the paucity of the freeborn would be conspicuously apparent. Not
without good reason had our ancestors, in distinguishing the position of
the different orders, thrown freedom open to all. Again, two kinds of enfranchisement
had been instituted, so as to leave room for retracting the boon, or for
a fresh act of grace. Those whom the patron had not emancipated with the
freedom-giving rod, were still held, as it were, by the bonds of slavery.
Every master should carefully consider the merits of each case, and be
slow to grant what once given could not be taken away." This view
prevailed, and the emperor replied to the Senate that, whenever freedmen
were accused by their patrons, they were to investigate each case separately
and not to annul any right to their common injury. Soon afterwards, his
aunt Domitia had her freedman Paris taken from her, avowedly by civil law,
much to the emperor's disgrace, by whose direction a decision that he was
freeborn was obtained. 
[13.28] Still there yet remained
some shadow of a free state. A contest arose between Vibullius, the praetor,
and Antistius, a tribune of the people; for the tribune had ordered the
release of some disorderly applauders of certain actors, whom the praetor
had imprisoned. The Senate approved the imprisonment, and censured the
presumption of Antistius. Tribunes were also forbidden to usurp the authority
of praetors and consuls, or to summon from any part of Italy persons liable
to legal proceedings. It was further proposed by Lucius Piso, consul-elect,
that tribunes were not to try any case in their own houses, that a fine
imposed by them was not to be entered on the public books by the officials
of the exchequer, till four months had expired, and that in the meantime
appeals were to be allowed, which the consuls were to decide. Restrictions
were also put on the powers of the aediles and a limit fixed to the amount
of bail or penalty which curule and plebeian aediles could respectively
exact. On this, Helvidius Priscus, a tribune of the people, followed up
a personal quarrel he had with Obultronius Sabinus, one of the officials
of the exchequer, by insinuating that he stretched his right of confiscation
with merciless rigour against the poor. The emperor then transferred the
charge of the public accounts from these officers to the commissioners.

[13.29] The arrangement of this business
had been variously and frequently altered. Augustus allowed the Senate
to appoint commissioners; then, when corrupt practices were suspected in
the voting, men were chosen by lot for the office out of the whole number
of praetors. This did not last long, as the lot strayed away to unfit persons.
Claudius then again appointed quaestors, and that they might not be too
lax in their duties from fear of offending, he promised them promotion
out of the usual course. But what they lacked was the firmness of mature
age, entering, as they did, on this office as their first step, and so
Nero appointed ex-praetors of approved competency. 
[13.30] During the same consulship,
Vipsanius Laenas was condemned for rapacity in his administration of the
province of Sardinia. Cestius Proculus was acquitted of extortion, his
accusers dropping the charge. Clodius Quirinalis, having, when in command
of the crews at Ravenna, caused grievous distress to Italy by his profligacy
and cruelty, just as if it were the most contemptible of countries, forestalled
his doom by poison. Caninius Rebilus, one of the first men in legal knowledge
and vastness of wealth, escaped the miseries of an old age of broken health
by letting the blood trickle from his veins, though men did not credit
him with sufficient resolution for a self-inflicted death, because of his
infamous effeminacy. Lucius Volusius on the other hand died with a glorious
name. There was his long life of ninety-three years, his conspicuous wealth,
honourably acquired, and his wise avoidance of the malignity of so many
emperors. 
[13.31] During Nero's second consulship
with Lucius Piso for his colleague, little occurred deserving mention,
unless one were to take pleasure in filling volumes with the praise of
the foundations and timber work on which the emperor piled the immense
amphitheatre in the Field of Mars. But we have learnt that it suits the
dignity of the Roman people to reserve history for great achievements,
and to leave such details to the city's daily register. I may mention that
the colonies of Nuceria and Capua were strengthened by an addition of veterans;
to every member of the city populace four hundred sesterces were given,
and forty million paid into the exchequer to maintain the credit of the
citizens. A tax also of four per cent. on the sale of slaves was remitted,
an apparent more than a real boon, for as the seller was ordered to pay
it, purchasers found that it was added as part of the price. The emperor
by an edict forbade any magistrate or procurator in the government of a
province to exhibit a show of gladiators, or of wild beasts, or indeed
any other public entertainment; for hitherto our subjects had been as much
oppressed by such bribery as by actual extortion, while governors sought
to screen by corruption the guilty deeds of arbitrary caprice. 
[13.32] The Senate next passed a
decree, providing alike for punishment and safety. If a master were murdered
by his slaves, all those who were enfranchised by his will and lived under
the same roof, were to suffer the capital punishment with his other slaves.
Lucius Varius, an ex-consul, who had been crushed in the past under charges
of extortion, was restored to his rank as a senator. Pomponia Graecina,
a distinguished lady, wife of the Plautius who returned from Britain with
an ovation, was accused of some foreign superstition and handed over to
her husband's judicial decision. Following ancient precedent, he heard
his wife's cause in the presence of kinsfolk, involving, as it did, her
legal status and character, and he reported that she was innocent. This
Pomponia lived a long life of unbroken melancholy. After the murder of
Julia, Drusus's daughter, by Messalina's treachery, for forty years she
wore only the attire of a mourner, with a heart ever sorrowful. For this,
during Claudius's reign, she escaped unpunished, and it was afterwards
counted a glory to her. 
[13.33] The same year saw many impeached.
One of these, Publius Celer, prosecuted by the province of Asia, the emperor
could not acquit, and so he put off the case till the man died of old age.
Celer, as I have related, had murdered Silanus, the pro-consul, and the
magnitude of this crime veiled his other enormities. Cossutianus Capito
was accused by the people of Cilicia; he was a man stained with the foulest
guilt, and had actually imagined that his audacious wickedness had the
same rights in a province as he had claimed for it at Rome. But he had
to confront a determined prosecution, and at last abandoned his defence.
Eprius Marcellus, from whom Lycia demanded compensation, was so powerfully
supported by corrupt influence that some of his accusers were punished
with exile, as though they had imperilled an innocent man. 
[13.34] Nero entered on his third
consulship with Valerius Messala, whose great-grandfather, the orator Corvinus,
was still remembered by a few old men, as having been the colleague of
the Divine Augustus, Nero's great-grandfather, in the same office. But
the honour of a noble house was further increased by an annual grant of
five hundred thousand sesterces on which Messala might support virtuous
poverty. Aurelius Cotta, too, and Haterius Antonius had yearly stipends
assigned them by the emperor, though they had squandered their ancestral
wealth in profligacy. Early in this year a war between Parthia and Rome
about the possession of Armenia, which, feebly begun, had hitherto dragged
on, was vigorously resumed. For Vologeses would not allow his brother Tiridates
to be deprived of a kingdom which he had himself given him, or to hold
it as a gift from a foreign power, and Corbulo too thought it due to the
grandeur of Rome that he should recover what Lucullus and Pompeius had
formerly won. Besides, the Armenians in the fluctuations of their allegiance
sought the armed protection of both empires, though by their country's
position, by resemblance of manners, and by the ties of intermarriage,
they were more connected with the Parthians, to whose subjection, in their
ignorance of freedom, they rather inclined. 
[13.35] Corbulo however had more
to struggle against in the supineness of his soldiers than in the treachery
of the enemy. His legions indeed, transferred as they had been from Syria
and demoralised by a long peace, endured most impatiently the duties of
a Roman camp. It was well known that that army contained veterans who had
never been on piquet duty or on night guard, to whom the rampart and the
fosse were new and strange sights, men without helmets or breastplates,
sleek money-making traders, who had served all their time in towns. Corbulo
having discharged all who were old or in ill-health, sought to supply their
places, and levies were held in Galatia and Cappadocia, and to these were
added a legion from Germany with its auxiliary cavalry and light infantry.
The entire army was kept under canvas, though the winter was so severe
that the ground, covered as it was with ice, did not yield a place for
the tents without being dug up. Many of the men had their limbs frost-bitten
through the intensity of the cold, and some perished on guard. A soldier
was observed whose hands mortified as he was carrying a bundle of wood,
so that sticking to their burden they dropped off from his arms, now mere
stumps. The general, lightly clad, with head uncovered, was continually
with his men on the march, amid their labours; he had praise for the brave,
comfort for the feeble, and was a good example to all. And then as many
shrank from the rigour of the climate and of the service, and deserted,
he sought a remedy in strictness of discipline. Not, as in other armies,
was a first or second offense condoned, but the soldier, who had quitted
his colours, instantly paid the penalty with his life. This was shown by
experience to be a wholesome measure, better than mercy; for there were
fewer desertions in that camp than in those in which leniency was habitual.

[13.36] Meanwhile Corbulo kept his
legions within the camp till spring weather was fairly established, and
having stationed his auxiliary infantry at suitable points, he directed
them not to begin an engagement. The charge of these defensive positions
he entrusted to Paccius Orfitus, who had held the post of a first-rank
centurion. Though this officer had reported that the barbarians were heedless,
and that an opportunity for success presented itself, he was instructed
to keep within his entrenchments and to wait for a stronger force. But
he broke the order, and on the arrival of a few cavalry squadrons from
the nearest forts, who in their inexperience insisted on fighting, he engaged
the enemy and was routed. Panic-stricken by his disaster, those who ought
to have given him support returned in precipitate flight to their respective
encampments. Corbulo heard of this with displeasure; he sharply censured
Paccius, the officers and soldiers, and ordered them to have their quarters
outside the lines. There they were kept in disgrace, and were released
only on the intercession of the whole army. 
[13.37] Tiridates meantime who, besides
his own dependencies, had the powerful aid of his brother Vologeses, ravaged
Armenia, not in stealthy raids as before, but in open war, plundering all
whom he thought loyal to Rome, while he eluded an action with any force
which was brought against him, and thus flying hither and thither, he spread
panic more widely by rumour than by arms. So Corbulo, frustrated in his
prolonged efforts to bring on an engagement and compelled, like the enemy,
to carry hostilities everywhere, divided his army, so that his generals
and officers might attack several points simultaneously. He at the same
time instructed king Antiochus to hasten to the provinces on his frontier,
as Pharasmanes, after having slain his son Rhadamistus as a traitor to
prove his loyalty to us, was following up more keenly than ever his old
feud with the Armenians. Then, for the first time, we won the friendship
of the Moschi, a nation which became pre-eminently attached to Rome, and
they overran the wilds of Armenia. Thus the intended plans of Tiridates
were wholly reversed, and he sent envoys to ask on behalf of himself and
of the Parthians, why, when hostages had lately been given and a friendship
renewed which might open up a way to further acts of good will, he was
thus driven from Armenia, his ancient possession. "As yet," he
said, "Vologeses had not bestirred himself, simply because they preferred
negotiation to violence. Should however war be persisted in, the Arsacids
would not want the courage and good fortune which had already been proved
more than once by disaster to Rome." Corbulo in reply, when he was
certain that Vologeses was detained by the revolt of Hyrcania, advised
Tiridates to address a petition to the emperor, assuring him that he might
reign securely and without bloodshed by relinquishing a prospect in the
remote future for the sake of one more solid within his reach. 
[13.38] As no progress was made towards
a final settlement of peace by the interchange of messages, it was at last
decided to fix a time and a place for an interview between the leaders.
"A thousand troopers," Tiridates said, "would be his escort;
what force of every kind was to be with Corbulo, he did not prescribe,
provided they came in peaceful fashion, without breastplates and helmets."
Any human being, to say nothing of an old and wary general, would have
seen through the barbarian's cunning, which assigned a limited number on
one side and offered a larger on the other, expressly with a treacherous
intent; for, were they to be exposed to a cavalry trained in the use of
arrows, with the person undefended, numbers would be unavailing. Corbulo
however, pretending not to understand this, replied that they would do
better to discuss matters requiring consideration for their common good,
in the presence of the entire armies, and he selected a place partly consisting
of gently sloping hills, suited for ranks of infantry, partly, of a spreading
plain where troops of cavalry could manoeuvre. On the appointed day, arriving
first, he posted his allied infantry with the king's auxiliaries on the
wings, the sixth legion in the centre, with which he had united three thousand
men of the third, brought up in the night from another camp, with one eagle,
so as to look like a single legion. Tiridates towards evening showed himself
at some distance whence he could be seen rather than heard. And so the
Roman general, without any conference, ordered his troops to retire to
their respective camps. 
[13.39] The king either suspecting
a stratagem from these simultaneous movements in different directions,
or intending to cut off our supplies as they were coming up from the sea
of Pontus and the town of Trapezus, hastily withdrew. He could not however
make any attack on the supplies, as they were brought over mountains in
the occupation of our forces. Corbulo, that war might not be uselessly
protracted, and also to compel the Armenians to defend their possessions,
prepared to destroy their fortresses, himself undertaking the assault on
the strongest of all in that province named Volandum. The weaker he assigned
to Cornelius Flaccus, his lieutenant, and to Insteius Capito, his camp-prefect.
Having then surveyed the defences and provided everything suitable for
storming them, he exhorted his soldiers to strip of his home this vagabond
foe who was preparing neither for peace nor for war, but who confessed
his treachery and cowardice by flight, and so to secure alike glory and
spoil. Then forming his army into four divisions, he led one in the dense
array of the "testudo" close up to the rampart, to undermine
it, while others were ordered to apply scaling ladders to the walls, and
many more were to discharge brands and javelins from engines. The slingers
and artillerymen had a position assigned them from which to hurl their
missiles at a distance, so that, with equal tumult everywhere, no support
might be given from any point to such as were pressed. So impetuous were
the efforts of the army that within a third part of one day the walls were
stripped of their defenders, the barriers of the gates overthrown, the
fortifications scaled and captured, and all the adult inhabitants massacred,
without the loss of a soldier and with but very few wounded. The nonmilitary
population were sold by auction; the rest of the booty fell to the conquerors.
Corbulo's lieutenant and camp-prefect met with similar success; three forts
were stormed by them in one day, and the remainder, some from panic, others
by the consent of the occupants, capitulated. This inspired them with confidence
to attack the capital of the country, Artaxata. The legions however were
not marched by the nearest route, for should they cross the river Avaxes
which washes the city's walls by a bridge, they would be within missile-range.
They passed over it at a distance, where it was broad and shallow. 
[13.40] Meantime Tiridates, ashamed
of seeming utterly powerless by not interfering with the siege, and afraid
that, in attempting to stop it, he would entangle himself and his cavalry
on difficult ground, resolved finally to display his forces and either
give battle on the first opportunity, or, by a pretended flight, prepare
the way for some stratagem. Suddenly, he threw himself on the Roman columns,
without however surprising our general, who had formed his army for fighting
as well as for marching. On the right and left flanks marched the third
and sixth legions, with some picked men of the tenth in the centre; the
baggage was secured within the lines, and the rear was guarded by a thousand
cavalry, who were ordered to resist any close attack of the enemy, but
not to pursue his retreat. On the wings were the foot-archers and the remainder
of the cavalry, with a more extended line on the left wing, along the base
of some hills, so that should the enemy penetrate the centre, he might
be encountered both in front and flank. Tiridates faced us in skirmishing
order, but not within missile-range, now threatening attack, now seemingly
afraid, with the view of loosening our formation and falling on isolated
divisions. Finding that there was no breaking of our ranks from rashness,
and that only one cavalry officer advanced too boldly, and that he falling
pierced with arrows, confirmed the rest in obedience by the warning, he
retired on the approach of darkness. 
[13.41] Corbulo then encamped on
the spot, and considered whether he should push on his legions without
their baggage to Artaxata and blockade the city, on which, he supposed,
Tiridates had fallen back. When his scouts reported that the king had undertaken
a long march, and that it was doubtful whether Media or Albania was its
destination, he waited for daylight, and then sent on his light-armed troops,
which were meanwhile to hover round the walls and begin the attack from
a distance. The inhabitants however opened the gates of their own accord,
and surrendered themselves and their property to the Romans. This saved
their lives; the city was fired, demolished and levelled to the ground,
as it could not be held without a strong garrison from the extent of the
walls, and we had not sufficient force to be divided between adequately
garrisoning it and carrying on the war. If again the place were left untouched
and unguarded, no advantage or glory would accrue from its capture. Then
too there was a wonderful occurrence, almost a divine interposition. While
the whole space outside the town, up to its buildings, was bright with
sunlight, the enclosure within the walls was suddenly shrouded in a black
cloud, seamed with lightning-flashes, and thus the city was thought to
be given up to destruction, as if heaven was wroth against it. For all
this Nero was unanimously saluted emperor, and by the Senate's decree a
thanksgiving was held; statues also, arches and successive consulships
were voted to him, and among the holy days were to be included the day
on which the victory was won, that on which it was announced, and that
on which the motion was brought forward. Other proposals too of a like
kind were carried, on a scale so extravagant, that Caius Cassius, after
having assented to the rest of the honours, argued that if the gods were
to be thanked for the bountiful favours of fortune, even a whole year would
not suffice for thanksgivings, and therefore there ought to be a classification
of sacred and business-days, that so they might observe divine ordinances
and yet not interfer with human affairs. 
[13.42] A man who had struggled with
various calamities and earned the hate of many, was then impeached and
condemned, but not without angry feelings towards Seneca. This was Publius
Suilius. He had been terrible and venal, while Claudius reigned, and when
times were changed, he was not so much humbled as his enemies wished, and
was one who would rather seem a criminal than a suppliant. With the intent
of crushing him, so men believed, a decree of the Senate was revived, along
with the penalty of the Cincian law against persons who had pleaded for
hire. Suilius spared not complaint or indignant remonstrance; freespoken
because of his extreme age as well as from his insolent temper, he taunted
Seneca with his savage enmity against the friends of Claudius, under whose
reign he had endured a most righteously deserved exile. "The man,"
he said, "familiar as he was only with profitless studies, and with
the ignorance of boyhood, envied those who employed a lively and genuine
eloquence in the defence of their fellow-citizens. He had been Germanicus's
quaestor, while Seneca had been a paramour in his house. Was it to be thought
a worse offence to obtain a reward for honest service with the litigant's
consent, than to pollute the chambers of the imperial ladies? By what kind
of wisdom or maxims of philosophy had Seneca within four years of royal
favour amassed three hundred million sesterces? At Rome the wills of the
childless were, so to say, caught in his snare while Italy and the provinces
were drained by a boundless usury. His own money, on the other hand, had
been acquired by industry and was not excessive. He would suffer prosecutions,
perils, anything indeed rather than make an old and self-learned position
of honour to bow before an upstart prosperity." 
[13.43] Persons were not wanting
to report all this to Seneca, in the exact words, or with a worse sense
put on it. Accusers were also found who alleged that our allies had been
plundered, when Suilius governed the province of Asia, and that there had
been embezzlement of public monies. Then, as an entire year had been granted
to them for inquiries, it seemed a shorter plan to begin with his crimes
at Rome, the witnesses of which were on the spot. These men charged Suilius
with having driven Quintus Pomponius by a relentless prosecution into the
extremity of civil war, with having forced Julia, Drusus's daughter, and
Sabina Poppaea to suicide, with having treacherously ruined Valerius Asiaticus,
Lusius Saturninus and Cornelius Lupus, in fact, with the wholesale conviction
of troops of Roman knights, and with all the cruelty of Claudius. His defence
was that of all this he had done nothing on his own responsibility but
had simply obeyed the emperor, till Nero stopped such pleadings, by stating
that he had ascertained from his father's notebooks that he had never compelled
the prosecution of a single person. Suilius then sheltered himself under
Messalina's orders, and the defence began to collapse. "Why,"
it was asked, "was no one else chosen to put his tongue at the service
of that savage harlot? We must punish the instruments of atrocious acts,
when, having gained the rewards of wickedness, they impute the wickedness
to others." And so, with the loss of half his property, his son and
granddaughter being allowed to retain the other half, and what they had
inherited under their mother's or grandmother's will being also exempted
from confiscation, Suilius was banished to the Balearic isles. Neither
in the crisis of his peril nor after his condemnation did he quail in spirit.
Rumour said that he supported that lonely exile by a life of ease and plenty.
When the accusers attacked his son Nerullinus on the strength of men's
hatred of the father and of some charges of extortion, the emperor interposed,
as if implying that vengeange was fully satisfied. 
[13.44] About the same time Octavius
Sagitta, a tribune of the people, who was enamoured to frenzy of Pontia,
a married woman, bribed her by most costly presents into an intrigue and
then into abandoning her husband. He had offered her marriage and had won
her consent. But as soon as she was free, she devised delays, pretended
that her father's wishes were against it, and having secured the prospect
of a richer husband, she repudiated her promises. Octavius, on the other
hand, now remonstrated, now threatened; his good name, he protested, was
lost, his means exhausted, and as for his life, which was all that was
left to him, he surrendered it to her mercy. When she spurned him, he asked
the solace of one night, with which to soothe his passion, that he might
set bounds to it for the future. A night was fixed, and Pontia intrusted
the charge of her chamber to a female slave acquainted with her secret.
Octavius attended by one freedman entered with a dagger concealed under
his dress. Then, as usual in lovers' quarrels, there were chidings, entreaties,
reproaches, excuses, and some period of the darkness was given up to passion;
then, when seemingly about to go, and she was fearing nothing, he stabbed
her with the steel, and having wounded and scared away the slave girl who
was hurrying to her, rushed out of the chamber. Next day the murder was
notorious, and there was no question as to the murderer, for it was proved
that he had passed some time with her. The freedman, however, declared
the deed was his, that he had, in fact, avenged his patron's wrongs. He
had made some impression by the nobleness of his example, when the slave
girl recovered and revealed the truth. Octavius, when he ceased to be tribune,
was prosecuted before the consuls by the father of the murdered woman,
and was condemned by the sentence of the Senate under "the law concerning
assassins." 
[13.45] A profligacy equally notorious
in that same year proved the beginning of great evils to the State. There
was at Rome one Sabina Poppaea; her father was Titus Ollius, but she had
assumed the name of her maternal grandfather Poppaeus Sabinus, a man of
illustrious memory and pre-eminently distinguished by the honours of a
consulship and a triumph. As for Ollius, before he attained promotion,
the friendship of Sejanus was his ruin. This Poppaea had everything but
a right mind. Her mother, who surpassed in personal attractions all the
ladies of her day, had bequeathed to her alike fame and beauty. Her fortune
adequately corresponded to the nobility of her descent. Her conversation
was charming and her wit anything but dull. She professed virtue, while
she practised laxity. Seldom did she appear in public, and it was always
with her face partly veiled, either to disappoint men's gaze or to set
off her beauty. Her character she never spared, making no distinction between
a husband and a paramour, while she was never a slave to her own passion
or to that of her lover. Wherever there was a prospect of advantage, there
she transferred her favours. And so while she was living as the wife of
Rufius Crispinus, a Roman knight, by whom she had a son, she was attracted
by the youth and fashionable elegance of Otho, and by the fact too that
he was reputed to have Nero's most ardent friendship. Without any delay
the intrigue was followed by marriage. 
[13.46] Otho now began to praise
his wife's beauty and accomplishments to the emperor, either from a lover's
thoughtlessness or to inflame Nero's passion, in the hope of adding to
his own influence by the further tie which would arise out of possession
of the same woman. Often, as he rose from the emperor's table, was he heard
repeatedly to say that he was going to her, to the high birth and beauty
which had fallen to his lot, to that which all men pray for, the joy of
the fortunate. These and like incitements allowed but of brief delay. Once
having gained admission, Poppaea won her way by artful blandishments, pretending
that she could not resist her passion and that she was captivated by Nero's
person. Soon, as the emperor's love grew ardent, she would change and be
supercilious, and, if she were detained more than one or two nights, would
say again and again that she was a married woman and could not give up
her husband attached as she was to Otho by a manner of life, which no one
equalled. "His ideas and his style were grand; at his house everything
worthy of the highest fortune was ever before her eyes. Nero, on the contrary,
with his slave girl mistress, tied down by his attachment to Acte, had
derived nothing from his slavish associations but what was low and degrading."
Otho was now cut off from Nero's usual familiar intercourse, and then even
from interviews and from the royal suite, and at last was appointed governor
of the province of Lusitania, that he might not be the emperor's rival
at Rome. There he lived up to the time of the civil wars, not in the fashion
of his disgraceful past, but uprightly and virtuously, a pleasure-loving
man when idle, and self-restrained when in power. 
[13.47] Hitherto Nero had sought
a veil for his abominations and wickedness. He was particularly suspicious
of Cornelius Sulla, whose apathetic temper he interpreted as really the
reverse, inferring that he was, in fact, an artful dissembler. Graptus,
one of the emperor's freedmen, whose age and experience had made him thoroughly
acquainted with the imperial household from the time of Tiberius, quickened
these apprehensions by the following falsehood. The Mulvian bridge was
then a famous haunt of nightly profligacy, and Nero used to go there that
he might take his pleasures more freely outside the city. So Graptus, taking
advantage of an idle panic into which the royal attendants had chanced
to have been thrown on their return by one of those youthful frolics which
were then everywhere practised, invented a story that a treacherous attack
had been planned on the emperor, should he go back by the Flaminian road,
and that through the favour of destiny he had escaped it, as he went home
by a different way to Sallust's gardens. Sulla, he said, was the author
of this plot. Not one, however, of Sulla's slaves or clients was recognised,
and his character, despicable as it was and incapable of a daring act,
was utterly at variance with the charge. Still, just as if he had been
found guilty, he was ordered to leave his country, and confine himself
within the walls of Massilia. 
[13.48] During the same consulship
a hearing was given to two conflicting deputations from Puteoli, sent to
the Senate by the town council and by the populace. The first spoke bitterly
of the violence of the multitude; the second, of the rapacity of the magistrates
and of all the chief citizens. That the disturbance, which had gone as
far as stoning and threats of fire, might not lead on to bloodshed and
armed fighting, Caius Cassius was appointed to apply some remedy. As they
would not endure his rigour, the charge of the affair was at his own request
transferred to the brothers Scribonii, to whom was given a praetorian cohort,
the terror of which, coupled with the execution of a few persons, restored
peace to the townspeople. 
[13.49] I should not mention a very
trivial decree of the Senate which allowed the city of Syracuse to exceed
the prescribed number in their gladiatorial shows, had not Paetus Thrasea
spoken against it and furnished his traducers with a ground for censuring
his motion. "Why," it was asked, "if he thought that the
public welfare required freedom of speech in the Senate, did he pursue
such trifling abuses? Why should he not speak for or against peace and
war, or on the taxes and laws and other matters involving Roman interests?
The senators, as often as they received the privilege of stating an opinion,
were at liberty to say out what they pleased, and to claim that it should
be put to the vote. Was it the only worthy object of reform to provide
that the Syracusans should not give shows on a larger scale? Were all other
matters in every department of the empire as admirable as if Thrasea and
not Nero had the direction of them? But if the highest affairs were passed
by and ignored, how much more ought there to be no meddling with things
wholly insignificant." Thrasea in reply, when his friends asked an
explanation, said "that it was not in ignorance of Rome's actual condition
that he sought to correct such decrees, but that he was giving what was
due to the honour of the senators, in making it evident that those who
attended even to the merest trifles, would not disguise their responsibility
for important affairs." 
[13.50] That same year, repeated
demands on the part of the people, who denounced the excessive greed of
the revenue collectors, made Nero doubt whether he should not order the
repeal of all indirect taxes, and so confer a most splendid boon on the
human race. But this sudden impulse was checked by the senators, who, having
first heartily praised the grandeur of his conception, pointed out "that
the dissolution of the empire must ensue if the revenues which supported
the State were to be diminished; for as soon as the customs were swept
away, there would follow a demand for the abolition of the direct taxes.
Many companies for the collection of the indirect taxes had been formed
by consuls and tribunes, when the freedom of the Roman people was still
in its vigour, and arrangements were subsequently made to insure an exact
correspondence between the amount of income and the necessary disbursements.
Certainly some restraint, they admitted, must be put on the cupidity of
the revenue collectors, that they might not by new oppressions bring into
odium what for so many years had been endured without a complaint."

[13.51] Accordingly the emperor issued
an edict that the regulations about every branch of the public revenue,
which had hitherto been kept secret, should be published; that claims which
had been dropped should not be revived after a year; that the praetor at
Rome, the propraetor or proconsul in the provinces, should give judicial
precedence to all cases against the collectors; that the soldiers should
retain their immunities except when they traded for profit, with other
very equitable arrangements, which for a short time were maintained and
were subsequently disregarded. However, the repeal of the two per cent.
and two-and-a-half per cent. taxes remains in force, as well as that of
others bearing names invented by the collectors to cover their illegal
exactions. In our transmarine provinces the conveyance of corn was rendered
less costly, and it was decided that merchant ships should not be assessed
with their owner's property, and that no tax should be paid on them. 
[13.52] Two men under prosecution
from Africa, in which province they had held proconsular authority, Sulpicius
Camerinus and Pomponius Silvanus, were acquitted by the emperor. Camerinus
had against him a few private persons who charged him with cruelty rather
than with extortion. Silvanus was beset by a host of accusers, who demanded
time for summoning their witnesses, while the defendant insisted on being
at once put on his defence. And he was successful, through his wealth,
his childlessness, and his old age, which he prolonged beyond the life
of those by whose corrupt influence he had escaped. 
[13.53] Up to this time everything
had been quiet in Germany, from the temper of the generals, who, now that
triumphal decorations had been vulgarised, hoped for greater glory by the
maintenance of peace. Paulinus Pompeius and Lucius Vetus were then in command
of the army. Still, to avoid keeping the soldiers in idleness, the first
completed the embankment begun sixty-three years before by Drusus to confine
the waters of the Rhine, while Vetus prepared to connect the Moselle and
the Arar by a canal, so that troops crossing the sea and then conveyed
on the Rhone and Arar might sail by this canal into the Moselle and the
Rhine, and thence to the ocean. Thus the difficulties of the route being
removed, there would be communication for ships between the shores of the
west and of the north. Aelius Gracilis, the governor of Belgica, discouraged
the work by seeking to deter Vetus from bringing his legions into another
man's province, and so drawing to himself the attachment of Gaul. This
result he repeatedly said would excite the fears of the emperor, an assertion
by which meritorious undertakings are often hindered. 
[13.54] Meantime, from the continued
inaction of our armies, a rumour prevailed that the commanders had been
deprived of the right of leading them against the enemy. Thereupon the
Frisii moved up their youth to the forests and swamps, and their non-fighting
population, over the lakes, to the river-bank, and established themselves
in unoccupied lands, reserved for the use of our soldiers, under the leadership
of Verritus and Malorix, the kings of the tribe, as far as Germans are
under kings. Already they had settled themselves in houses, had sown the
fields, and were cultivating the soil as if it had been their ancestors',
when Dubius Avitus, who had succeeded Paulinus in the province, by threatening
them with a Roman attack if they did not retire into their old country
or obtain a new territory from the emperor, constrained Verritus and Malorix
to become suppliants. They went to Rome, and while they waited for Nero,
who was intent on other engagements, among the sights shown to the barbarians
they were admitted into Pompey's theatre, where they might behold the vastness
of the Roman people. There at their leisure (for in the entertainment,
ignorant as they were, they found no amusement) they asked questions about
the crowd on the benches, about the distinctions of classes, who were the
knights, where was the Senate, till they observed some persons in a foreign
dress on the seats of the senators. Having asked who they were, when they
were told that this honour was granted to envoys from those nations which
were distinguished for their bravery and their friendship to Rome, they
exclaimed that no men on earth surpassed the Germans in arms or in loyalty.
Then they went down and took their seat among the senators. The spectators
hailed the act goodnaturedly, as due to the impulsiveness of a primitive
people and to an honourable rivalry. Nero gave both of them the Roman franchise,
and ordered the Frisii to withdraw from the territory in question. When
they disdained obedience, some auxiliary cavalry by a sudden attack made
it a necessity for them, capturing or slaughtering those who obstinately
resisted. 
[13.55] Of this same territory, the
Ampsivarii now possessed themselves, a tribe more powerful not only from
their numbers, but from having the sympathy of the neighbouring peoples,
as they had been expelled by the Chauci and had to beg, as homeless outcasts,
a secure exile. Their cause was pleaded by a man, famous among those nations
and loyal to Rome, Boiocalus by name, who reminded us that on the Cheruscan
revolt he had been imprisoned by the order of Arminius, that afterwards
he had served under the leadership of Tiberius and of Germanicus, and that
to a fifty years' obedience he was adding the merit of subjecting his tribe
to our dominion. "What an extent of plain," he would say, "lies
open into which the flocks and herds of the Roman soldiers may some day
be sent! Let them by all means keep retreats for their cattle, while men
are starving; only let them not prefer a waste and a solitude to friendly
nations. Once these fields belonged to the Chamavi; then to the Tubantes;
after them to the Usipii. As heaven is for the gods, so the earth has been
given to mankind, and lands uninhabited are common to all." Then looking
up to the sun and invoking the other heavenly bodies, he asked them, as
though standing in their presence, "whether they wished to behold
an empty soil; rather let them submerge it beneath the sea against the
plunderers of the land." 
[13.56] Avitus was impressed by this
language and said that people must submit to the rule of their betters;
that the gods to whom they appealed, had willed that the decision as to
what should be given or taken from them, was to rest with the Romans, who
would allow none but themselves to be judges. This was his public answer
to the Ampsivarii; to Boiocalus his reply was that in remembrance of past
friendship he would cede the lands in question. Boiocalus spurned the offer
as the price of treason, adding, "We may lack a land to live in; we
cannot lack one to die in." And so they parted with mutual exasperation.
The Ampsivarii now called on the Bructeri, the Tencteri, and yet more distant
tribes to be their allies in war. Avitus, having written to Curtilius Mancia,
commander of the Upper army, asking him to cross the Rhine and display
his troops in the enemy's rear, himself led his legions into the territory
of the Tencteri, and threatened them with extermination unless they dissociated
themselves from the cause. When upon this the Tencteri stood aloof, the
Bructeri were cowed by a like terror. And so, as the rest too were for
averting perils which did not concern them, the Ampsivarian tribe in its
isolation retreated to the Usipii and Tubantes. Driven out of these countries,
they sought refuge with the Chatti and then with the Cherusci, and after
long wanderings, as destitute outcasts, received now as friends now as
foes, their entire youth were slain in a strange land, and all who could
not fight, were apportioned as booty. 
[13.57] The same summer a great battle
was fought between the Hermunduri and the Chatti, both forcibly claiming
a river which produced salt in plenty, and bounded their territories. They
had not only a passion for settling every question by arms, but also a
deep-rooted superstition that such localities are specially near to heaven,
and that mortal prayers are nowhere more attentively heard by the gods.
It is, they think, through the bounty of divine power, that in that river
and in those forests salt is produced, not, as in other countries, by the
drying up of an overflow of the sea, but by the combination of two opposite
elements, fire and water, when the latter had been poured over a burning
pile of wood. The war was a success for the Hermunduri, and the more disastrous
to the Chatti because they had devoted, in the event of victory, the enemy's
army to Mars and Mercury, a vow which consigns horses, men, everything
indeed on the vanquished side to destruction. And so the hostile threat
recoiled on themselves. Meanwhile, a state in alliance with us, that of
the Ubii, suffered grievously from an unexpected calamity. Fires suddenly
bursting from the earth seized everywhere on country houses, crops, and
villages, and were rushing on to the very walls of the newly founded colony.
Nor could they be extinguished by the fall of rain, or by river-water,
or by any other moisture, till some countrymen, in despair of a remedy
and in fury at the disaster, flung stones from a distance, and then, approaching
nearer, as the flames began to sink, tried to scare them away, like so
many wild beasts, with the blows of clubs and other weapons. At last they
stript off their clothes and threw them on the fire, which they were the
more likely to quench, the more they had been soiled by common use. 
[13.58] That same year, the fact
that the tree in the Comitium, which 840 years before had sheltered the
infancy of Romulus and Remus, was impaired by the decay of its boughs and
by the withering of its stem, was accounted a portent, till it began to
renew its life with fresh shoots. 
Book 14 - (A.D. 59-62)
[14.1] In the year of the consulship
of Caius Vipstanus and Caius Fonteius, Nero deferred no more a long meditated
crime. Length of power had matured his daring, and his passion for Poppaea
daily grew more ardent. As the woman had no hope of marriage for herself
or of Octavia's divorce while Agrippina lived, she would reproach the emperor
with incessant vituperation and sometimes call him in jest a mere ward
who was under the rule of others, and was so far from having empire that
he had not even his liberty. "Why," she asked, "was her
marriage put off? Was it, forsooth, her beauty and her ancestors, with
their triumphal honours, that failed to please, or her being a mother,
and her sincere heart? No; the fear was that as a wife at least she would
divulge the wrongs of the Senate, and the wrath of the people at the arrogance
and rapacity of his mother. If the only daughter-in-law Agrippina could
bear was one who wished evil to her son, let her be restored to her union
with Otho. She would go anywhere in the world, where she might hear of
the insults heaped on the emperor, rather than witness them, and be also
involved in his perils." These and the like complaints, rendered impressive
by tears and by the cunning of an adulteress, no one checked, as all longed
to see the mother's power broken, while not a person believed that the
son's hatred would steel his heart to her murder. 
[14.2] Cluvius relates that Agrippina
in her eagerness to retain her influence went so far that more than once
at midday, when Nero, even at that hour, was flushed with wine and feasting,
she presented herself attractively attired to her half intoxicated son
and offered him her person, and that when kinsfolk observed wanton kisses
and caresses, portending infamy, it was Seneca who sought a female's aid
against a woman's fascinations, and hurried in Acte, the freed-girl, who
alarmed at her own peril and at Nero's disgrace, told him that the incest
was notorious, as his mother boasted of it, and that the soldiers would
never endure the rule of an impious sovereign. Fabius Rusticus tells us
that it was not Agrippina, but Nero, who lusted for the crime, and that
it was frustrated by the adroitness of that same freed-girl. Cluvius's
account, however, is also that of all other authors, and popular belief
inclines to it, whether it was that Agrippina really conceived such a monstrous
wickedness in her heart, or perhaps because the thought of a strange passion
seemed comparatively credible in a woman, who in her girlish years had
allowed herself to be seduced by Lepidus in the hope of winning power,
had stooped with a like ambition to the lust of Pallas, and had trained
herself for every infamy by her marriage with her uncle. 
[14.3] Nero accordingly avoided secret
interviews with her, and when she withdrew to her gardens or to her estates
at Tusculum and Antium, he praised her for courting repose. At last, convinced
that she would be too formidable, wherever she might dwell, he resolved
to destroy her, merely deliberating whether it was to be accomplished by
poison, or by the sword, or by any other violent means. Poison at first
seemed best, but, were it to be administered at the imperial table, the
result could not be referred to chance after the recent circumstances of
the death of Britannicus. Again, to tamper with the servants of a woman
who, from her familiarity with crime, was on her guard against treachery,
appeared to be extremely difficult, and then, too, she had fortified her
constitution by the use of antidotes. How again the dagger and its work
were to be kept secret, no one could suggest, and it was feared too that
whoever might be chosen to execute such a crime would spurn the order.
An ingenious suggestion was offered by Anicetus, a freedman, commander
of the fleet at Misenum, who had been tutor to Nero in boyhood and had
a hatred of Agrippina which she reciprocated. He explained that a vessel
could be constructed, from which a part might by a contrivance be detached,
when out at sea, so as to plunge her unawares into the water. "Nothing,"
he said, "allowed of accidents so much as the sea, and should she
be overtaken by shipwreck, who would be so unfair as to impute to crime
an offence committed by the winds and waves? The emperor would add the
honour of a temple and of shrines to the deceased lady, with every other
display of filial affection." 
[14.4] Nero liked the device, favoured
as it also was by the particular time, for he was celebrating Minerva's
five days' festival at Baiae. Thither he enticed his mother by repeated
assurances that children ought to bear with the irritability of parents
and to soothe their tempers, wishing thus to spread a rumour of reconciliation
and to secure Agrippina's acceptance through the feminine credulity, which
easily believes what joy. As she approached, he went to the shore to meet
her (she was coming from Antium), welcomed her with outstretched hand and
embrace, and conducted her to Bauli. This was the name of a country house,
washed by a bay of the sea, between the promontory of Misenum and the lake
of Baiae. Here was a vessel distinguished from others by its equipment,
seemingly meant, among other things, to do honour to his mother; for she
had been accustomed to sail in a trireme, with a crew of marines. And now
she was invited to a banquet, that night might serve to conceal the crime.
It was well known that somebody had been found to betray it, that Agrippina
had heard of the plot, and in doubt whether she was to believe it, was
conveyed to Baiae in her litter. There some soothing words allayed her
fear; she was graciously received, and seated at table above the emperor.
Nero prolonged the banquet with various conversation, passing from a youth's
playful familiarity to an air of constraint, which seemed to indicate serious
thought, and then, after protracted festivity, escorted her on her departure,
clinging with kisses to her eyes and bosom, either to crown his hypocrisy
or because the last sight of a mother on the even of destruction caused
a lingering even in that brutal heart. 
[14.5] A night of brilliant starlight
with the calm of a tranquil sea was granted by heaven, seemingly, to convict
the crime. The vessel had not gone far, Agrippina having with her two of
her intimate attendants, one of whom, Crepereius Gallus, stood near the
helm, while Acerronia, reclining at Agrippina's feet as she reposed herself,
spoke joyfully of her son's repentance and of the recovery of the mother's
influence, when at a given signal the ceiling of the place, which was loaded
with a quantity of lead, fell in, and Crepereius was crushed and instantly
killed. Agrippina and Acerronia were protected by the projecting sides
of the couch, which happened to be too strong to yield under the weight.
But this was not followed by the breaking up of the vessel; for all were
bewildered, and those too, who were in the plot, were hindered by the unconscious
majority. The crew then thought it best to throw the vessel on one side
and so sink it, but they could not themselves promptly unite to face the
emergency, and others, by counteracting the attempt, gave an opportunity
of a gentler fall into the sea. Acerronia, however, thoughtlessly exclaiming
that she was Agrippina, and imploring help for the emperor's mother, was
despatched with poles and oars, and such naval implements as chance offered.
Agrippina was silent and was thus the less recognized; still, she received
a wound in her shoulder. She swam, then met with some small boats which
conveyed her to the Lucrine lake, and so entered her house. 
[14.6] There she reflected how for
this very purpose she had been invited by a lying letter and treated with
conspicuous honour, how also it was near the shore, not from being driven
by winds or dashed on rocks, that the vessel had in its upper part collapsed,
like a mechanism anything but nautical. She pondered too the death of Acerronia;
she looked at her own wound, and saw that her only safeguard against treachery
was to ignore it. Then she sent her freedman Agerinus to tell her son how
by heaven's favour and his good fortune she had escaped a terrible disaster;
that she begged him, alarmed, as he might be, by his mother's peril, to
put off the duty of a visit, as for the present she needed repose. Meanwhile,
pretending that she felt secure, she applied remedies to her wound, and
fomentations to her person. She then ordered search to be made for the
will of Acerronia, and her property to be sealed, in this alone throwing
off disguise. 
[14.7] Nero, meantime, as he waited
for tidings of the consummation of the deed, received information that
she had escaped with the injury of a slight wound, after having so far
encountered the peril that there could be no question as to its author.
Then, paralysed with terror and protesting that she would show herself
the next moment eager for vengeance, either arming the slaves or stirring
up the soldiery, or hastening to the Senate and the people, to charge him
with the wreck, with her wound, and with the destruction of her friends,
he asked what resource he had against all this, unless something could
be at once devised by Burrus and Seneca. He had instantly summoned both
of them, and possibly they were already in the secret. There was a long
silence on their part; they feared they might remonstrate in vain, or believed
the crisis to be such that Nero must perish, unless Agrippina were at once
crushed. Thereupon Seneca was so far the more prompt as to glance back
on Burrus, as if to ask him whether the bloody deed must be required of
the soldiers. Burrus replied "that the praetorians were attached to
the whole family of the Caesars, and remembering Germanicus would not dare
a savage deed on his offspring. It was for Anicetus to accomplish his promise."
Anicetus, without a pause, claimed for himself the consummation of the
crime. At those words, Nero declared that that day gave him empire, and
that a freedman was the author of this mighty boon. "Go," he
said, "with all speed and take with you the men readiest to execute
your orders." He himself, when he had heard of the arrival of Agrippina's
messenger, Agerinus, contrived a theatrical mode of accusation, and, while
the man was repeating his message, threw down a sword at his feet, then
ordered him to be put in irons, as a detected criminal, so that he might
invent a story how his mother had plotted the emperor's destruction and
in the shame of discovered guilt had by her own choice sought death. 
[14.8] Meantime, Agrippina's peril
being universally known and taken to be an accidental occurrence, everybody,
the moment he heard of it, hurried down to the beach. Some climbed projecting
piers; some the nearest vessels; others, as far as their stature allowed,
went into the sea; some, again, stood with outstretched arms, while the
whole shore rung with wailings, with prayers and cries, as different questions
were asked and uncertain answers given. A vast multitude streamed to the
spot with torches, and as soon as all knew that she was safe, they at once
prepared to wish her joy, till the sight of an armed and threatening force
scared them away. Anicetus then surrounded the house with a guard, and
having burst open the gates, dragged off the slaves who met him, till he
came to the door of her chamber, where a few still stood, after the rest
had fled in terror at the attack. A small lamp was in the room, and one
slave-girl with Agrippina, who grew more and more anxious, as no messenger
came from her son, not even Agerinus, while the appearance of the shore
was changed, a solitude one moment, then sudden bustle and tokens of the
worst catastrophe. As the girl rose to depart, she exclaimed, "Do
you too forsake me?" and looking round saw Anicetus, who had with
him the captain of the trireme, Herculeius, and Obaritus, a centurion of
marines. "If," said she, "you have come to see me, take
back word that I have recovered, but if you are here to do a crime, I believe
nothing about my son; he has not ordered his mother's murder." The
assassins closed in round her couch, and the captain of the trireme first
struck her head violently with a club. Then, as the centurion bared his
sword for the fatal deed, presenting her person, she exclaimed, "Smite
my womb," and with many wounds she was slain. 
[14.9] So far our accounts agree.
That Nero gazed on his mother after her death and praised her beauty, some
have related, while others deny it. Her body was burnt that same night
on a dining couch, with a mean funeral; nor, as long as Nero was in power,
was the earth raised into a mound, or even decently closed. Subsequently,
she received from the solicitude of her domestics, a humble sepulchre on
the road to Misenum, near the country house of Caesar the Dictator, which
from a great height commands a view of the bay beneath. As soon as the
funeral pile was lighted, one of her freedmen, surnamed Mnester, ran himself
through with a sword, either from love of his mistress or from the fear
of destruction. Many years before Agrippina had anticipated this end for
herself and had spurned the thought. For when she consulted the astrologers
about Nero, they replied that he would be emperor and kill his mother.
"Let him kill her," she said, "provided he is emperor."

[14.10] But the emperor, when the
crime was at last accomplished, realised its portentous guilt. The rest
of the night, now silent and stupified, now and still oftener starting
up in terror, bereft of reason, he awaited the dawn as if it would bring
with it his doom. He was first encouraged to hope by the flattery addressed
to him, at the prompting of Burrus, by the centurions and tribunes, who
again and again pressed his hand and congratulated him on his having escaped
an unforeseen danger and his mother's daring crime. Then his friends went
to the temples, and, an example having once been set, the neighbouring
towns of Campania testified their joy with sacrifices and deputations.
He himself, with an opposite phase of hypocrisy, seemed sad, and almost
angry at his own deliverance, and shed tears over his mother's death. But
as the aspects of places change not, as do the looks of men, and as he
had ever before his eyes the dreadful sight of that sea with its shores
(some too believed that the notes of a funereal trumpet were heard from
the surrounding heights, and wailings from the mother's grave), he retired
to Neapolis and sent a letter to the Senate, the drift of which was that
Agerinus, one of Agrippina's confidential freedmen, had been detected with
the dagger of an assassin, and that in the consciousness of having planned
the crime she had paid its penalty. 
[14.11] He even revived the charges
of a period long past, how she had aimed at a share of empire, and at inducing
the praetorian cohorts to swear obedience to a woman, to the disgrace of
the Senate and people; how, when she was disappointed, in her fury with
the soldiers, the Senate, and the populace, she opposed the usual donative
and largess, and organised perilous prosecutions against distinguished
citizens. What efforts had it cost him to hinder her from bursting into
the Senate-house and giving answers to foreign nations! He glanced too
with indirect censure at the days of Claudius, and ascribed all the abominations
of that reign to his mother, thus seeking to show that it was the State's
good fortune which had destroyed her. For he actually told the story of
the shipwreck; but who could be so stupid as to believe that it was accidental,
or that a shipwrecked woman had sent one man with a weapon to break through
an emperor's guards and fleets? So now it was not Nero, whose brutality
was far beyond any remonstrance, but Seneca who was in ill repute, for
having written a confession in such a style. 
[14.12] Still there was a marvellous
rivalry among the nobles in decreeing thanksgivings at all the shrines,
and the celebration with annual games of Minerva's festival, as the day
on which the plot had been discovered; also, that a golden image of Minerva
with a statue of the emperor by its side should be set up in the Senate-house,
and that Agrippina's birthday should be classed among the inauspicious
days. Thrasea Paetus, who had been used to pass over previous flatteries
in silence or with brief assent, then walked out of the Senate, thereby
imperilling himself, without communicating to the other senators any impulse
towards freedom. There occurred too a thick succession of portents, which
meant nothing. A woman gave birth to a snake, and another was killed by
a thunderbolt in her husband's embrace. Then the sun was suddenly darkened
and the fourteen districts of the city were struck by lightning. All this
happened quite without any providential design; so much so, that for many
subsequent years Nero prolonged his reign and his crimes. Still, to deepen
the popular hatred towards his mother, and prove that since her removal,
his clemency had increased, he restored to their ancestral homes two distinguished
ladies, Junia and Calpurnia, with two ex-praetors, Valerius Capito and
Licinius Gabolus, whom Agrippina had formerly banished. He also allowed
the ashes of Lollia Paulina to be brought back and a tomb to be built over
them. Iturius and Calvisius, whom he had himself temporarily exiled, he
now released from their penalty. Silana indeed had died a natural death
at Tarentum, whither she had returned from her distant exile, when the
power of Agrippina, to whose enmity she owed her fall, began to totter,
or her wrath was at last appeased. 
[14.13] While Nero was lingering
in the towns of Campania, doubting how he should enter Rome, whether he
would find the Senate submissive and the populace enthusiastic, all the
vilest courtiers, and of these never had a court a more abundant crop,
argued against his hesitation by assuring him that Agrippina's name was
hated and that her death had heightened his popularity. "He might
go without a fear," they said, "and experience in his person
men's veneration for him." They insisted at the same time on preceding
him. They found greater enthusiasm than they had promised, the tribes coming
forth to meet him, the Senate in holiday attire, troops of their children
and wives arranged according to sex and age, tiers of seats raised for
the spectacle, where he was to pass, as a triumph is witnessed. Thus elated
and exulting over his people's slavery, he proceeded to the Capitol, performed
the thanksgiving, and then plunged into all the excesses, which, though
ill-restrained, some sort of respect for his mother had for a while delayed.

[14.14] He had long had a fancy for
driving a four-horse chariot, and a no less degrading taste for singing
to the harp, in a theatrical fashion, when he was at dinner. This he would
remind people was a royal custom, and had been the practice of ancient
chiefs; it was celebrated too in the praises of poets and was meant to
show honour to the gods. Songs indeed, he said, were sacred to Apollo,
and it was in the dress of a singer that that great and prophetic deity
was seen in Roman temples as well as in Greek cities. He could no longer
be restrained, when Seneca and Burrus thought it best to concede one point
that he might not persist in both. A space was enclosed in the Vatican
valley where he might manage his horses, without the spectacle being public.
Soon he actually invited all the people of Rome, who extolled him in their
praises, like a mob which craves for amusements and rejoices when a prince
draws them the same way. However, the public exposure of his shame acted
on him as an incentive instead of sickening him, as men expected. Imagining
that he mitigated the scandal by disgracing many others, he brought on
the stage descendants of noble families, who sold themselves because they
were paupers. As they have ended their days, I think it due to their ancestors
not to hand down their names. And indeed the infamy is his who gave them
wealth to reward their degradation rather than to deter them from degrading
themselves. He prevailed too on some well-known Roman knights, by immense
presents, to offer their services in the amphitheatre; only pay from one
who is able to command, carries with it the force of compulsion. 
[14.15] Still, not yet wishing to
disgrace himself on a public stage, he instituted some games under the
title of "juvenile sports," for which people of every class gave
in their names. Neither rank nor age nor previous high promotion hindered
any one from practising the art of a Greek or Latin actor and even stooping
to gestures and songs unfit for a man. Noble ladies too actually played
disgusting parts, and in the grove, with which Augustus had surrounded
the lake for the naval fight, there were erected places for meeting and
refreshment, and every incentive to excess was offered for sale. Money
too was distributed, which the respectable had to spend under sheer compulsion
and which the profligate gloried in squandering. Hence a rank growth of
abominations and of all infamy. Never did a more filthy rabble add a worse
licentiousness to our long corrupted morals. Even, with virtuous training,
purity is not easily upheld; far less amid rivalries in vice could modesty
or propriety or any trace of good manners be preserved. Last of all, the
emperor himself came on the stage, tuning his lute with elaborate care
and trying his voice with his attendants. There were also present, to complete
the show, a guard of soldiers with centurions and tribunes, and Burrus,
who grieved and yet applauded. Then it was that Roman knights were first
enrolled under the title of Augustani, men in their prime and remarkable
for their strength, some, from a natural frivolity, others from the hope
of promotion. Day and night they kept up a thunder of applause, and applied
to the emperor's person and voice the epithets of deities. Thus they lived
in fame and honour, as if on the strength of their merits. 
[14.16] Nero however, that he might
not be known only for his accomplishments as an actor, also affected a
taste for poetry, and drew round him persons who had some skill in such
compositions, but not yet generally recognised. They used to sit with him,
stringing together verses prepared at home, or extemporised on the spot,
and fill up his own expressions, such as they were, just as he threw them
off. This is plainly shown by the very character of the poems, which have
no vigour or inspiration, or unity in their flow. He would also bestow
some leisure after his banquets on the teachers of philosophy, for he enjoyed
the wrangles of opposing dogmatists. And some there were who liked to exhibit
their gloomy faces and looks, as one of the amusements of the court. 
[14.17] About the same time a trifling
beginning led to frightful bloodshed between the inhabitants of Nuceria
and Pompeii, at a gladiatorial show exhibited by Livineius Regulus, who
had been, as I have related, expelled from the Senate. With the unruly
spirit of townsfolk, they began with abusive language of each other; then
they took up stones and at last weapons, the advantage resting with the
populace of Pompeii, where the show was being exhibited. And so there were
brought to Rome a number of the people of Nuceria, with their bodies mutilated
by wounds, and many lamented the deaths of children or of parents. The
emperor entrusted the trial of the case to the Senate, and the Senate to
the consuls, and then again the matter being referred back to the Senators,
the inhabitants of Pompeii were forbidden to have any such public gathering
for ten years, and all associations they had formed in defiance of the
laws were dissolved. Livineius and the others who had excited the disturbance,
were punished with exile. 
[14.18] Pedius Blaesus was also expelled
from the Senate on the accusation of the people of Cyrene, that he had
violated the treasury of Aesculapius and had tampered with a military levy
by bribery and corruption. This same people prosecuted Acilius Strabo who
had held the office of praetor, and had been sent by Claudius to adjudicate
on some lands which were bequeathed by king Apion, their former possessor,
together with his kingdom to the Roman people, and which had since been
seized by the neighbouring proprietors, who trusted to a long continued
licence in wrong, as if it constituted right and justice. Consequently,
when the adjudication was against them, there arose a bitter feeling towards
the judge, but the Senate replied that they knew nothing of the instructions
given by Claudius, and that the emperor must be consulted. Nero, though
he approved Strabo's decision, wrote word that nevertheless he was for
relieving the allies, and that he waived all claim to what had been taken
into possession. 
[14.19] Then followed the deaths
of two illustrious men, Domitius Afer and Marcus Servilius, who had flourished
through a career of the highest honours and great eloquence. The first
was a pleader; Servilius, after long practice in the courts, distinguished
himself by his history of Rome and by the refinement of his life, which
the contrast of his character to that of Afer, whom he equalled in genius,
rendered the more conspicuous. 
[14.20] In Nero's fourth consulship
with Cornelius Cossus for his colleague, a theatrical entertainment to
be repeated every five years was established at Rome in imitation of the
Greek festival. Like all novelties, it was variously canvassed. There were
some who declared that even Cnius Pompeius was censured by the older men
of the day for having set up a fixed and permanent theatre. "Formerly,"
they said, "the games were usually exhibited with hastily erected
tiers of benches and a temporary stage, and the people stood to witness
them, that they might not, by having the chance of sitting down, spend
a succession of entire days in idleness. Let the ancient character of these
shows be retained, whenever the praetors exhibited them, and let no citizen
be under the necessity of competing. As it was, the morality of their fathers,
which had by degrees been forgotten, was utterly subverted by the introduction
of a lax tone, so that all which could suffer or produce corruption was
to be seen at Rome, and a degeneracy bred by foreign tastes was infecting
the youth who devoted themselves to athletic sports, to idle loungings
and low intrigues, with the encouragement of the emperor and Senate, who
not only granted licence to vice, but even applied a compulsion to drive
Roman nobles into disgracing themselves on the stage, under the pretence
of being orators and poets. What remained for them but to strip themselves
naked, put on the boxing-glove, and practise such battles instead of the
arms of legitimate warfare? Would justice be promoted, or would they serve
on the knights' commissions for the honourable office of a judge, because
they had listened with critical sagacity to effeminate strains of music
and sweet voices? Night too was given up to infamy, so that virtue had
not a moment left to her, but all the vilest of that promiscuous throng
dared to do in the darkness anything they had lusted for in the day."

[14.21] Many people liked this very
licence, but they screened it under respectable names. "Our ancestors,"
they said, "were not averse to the attractions of shows on a scale
suited to the wealth of their day, and so they introduced actors from the
Etruscans and horse-races from Thurii. When we had possessed ourselves
of Achaia and Asia, games were exhibited with greater elaboration, and
yet no one at Rome of good family had stooped to the theatrical profession
during the 200 years following the triumph of Lucius Mummius, who first
displayed this kind of show in the capital. Besides, even economy had been
consulted, when a permanent edifice was erected for a theatre, in preference
to a structure raised and fitted up yearly at vast expense. Nor would the
magistrates, as hitherto, exhaust their substance, or would the populace
have the same motive for demanding of them the Greek contests, when once
the State undertakes the expenditure. The victories won by orators and
poets would furnish a stimulus to genius, and it could not be a burden
for any judge to bestow his attention on graceful pursuits or on legitimate
recreations. It was to mirth rather than to profligacy that a few nights
every five years were devoted, and in these amid such a blaze of illumination
no lawless conduct could be concealed." This entertainment, it is
true, passed off without any notorious scandal. The enthusiasm too of the
populace was not even slightly kindled, for the pantomimic actors, though
permitted to return to the stage, were excluded from the sacred contests.
No one gained the first prize for eloquence, but it was publicly announced
that the emperor was victorious. Greek dresses, in which most people showed
themselves during this festival, had then gone out of fashion. 
[14.22] A comet meantime blazed in
the sky, which in popular opinion always portends revolution to kingdoms.
So people began to ask, as if Nero was already dethroned, who was to be
elected. In every one's mouth was the name of Rubellius Blandus, who inherited
through his mother the high nobility of the Julian family. He was himself
attached to the ideas of our ancestors; his manners were austere, his home
was one of purity and seclusion, and the more he lived in retirement from
fear, the more fame did he acquire. Popular talk was confirmed by an interpretation
put with similar credulity on a flash of lightning. While Nero was reclining
at dinner in his house named Sublaqueum on the Simbruine lake, the table
with the banquet was struck and shattered, and as this happened close to
Tibur, from which town Plautus derived his origin on his father's side,
people believed him to be the man marked out by divine providence; and
he was encouraged by that numerous class, whose eager and often mistaken
ambition it is to attach themselves prematurely to some new and hazardous
cause. This alarmed Nero, and he wrote a letter to Plautus, bidding "him
consider the tranquillity of Rome and withdraw himself from mischievous
gossip. He had ancestral possessions in Asia, where he might enjoy his
youth safely and quietly." And so thither Plautus retired with his
wife Antistia and a few intimate friends. About the same time an excessive
love of luxurious gratification involved Nero in disgrace and danger. He
had plunged for a swim into the source of the stream which Quintus Marcius
conveyed to Rome, and it was thought that, by thus immersing his person
in it, he had polluted the sacred waters and the sanctity of the spot.
A fit of illness which followed, convinced people of the divine displeasure.

[14.23] Corbulo meanwhile having
demolished Artaxata thought that he ought to avail himself of the recent
panic by possessing himself of Tigranocerta, and either, by destroying
it, increase the enemy's terror, or, by sparing it, win a name for mercy.
Thither he marched his army, with no hostile demonstrations, lest might
cut off all hope of quarter, but still without relaxing his vigilance,
knowing, as he did, the fickle temper of the people, who are as treacherous,
when they have an opportunity, as they are slow to meet danger. The barbarians,
following their individual inclinations, either came to him with entreaties,
or quitted their villages and dispersed into their deserts. Some there
were who hid themselves in caverns with all that they held dearest. The
Roman general accordingly dealt variously with them; he was merciful to
suppliants, swift in pursuit of fugitives, pitiless towards those who had
crept into hiding-places, burning them out after filling up the entrances
and exits with brushwood and bushes. As he was on his march along the frontier
of the Mardi, he was incessantly attacked by that tribe which is trained
to guerilla warfare, and defended by mountains against an invader. Corbulo
threw the Iberians on them, ravaged their country and punished the enemy's
daring at the cost of the blood of the foreigner. 
[14.24] Both Corbulo and his army,
though suffering no losses in battle, were becoming exhausted by short
supplies and hardships, compelled as they were to stave off hunger solely
by the flesh of cattle. Added to this was scarcity of water, a burning
summer and long marches, all of which were alleviated only by the general's
patient endurance. He bore indeed the same or even more burdens than the
common soldier. Subsequently, they reached lands under cultivation, and
reaped the crops, and of two fortresses in which the Armenians had fled
for refuge, one was taken by storm; the other, which repulsed the first
attack, was reduced by blockade. Thence the general crossed into the country
of the Tauraunites, where he escaped an unforeseen peril. Near his tent,
a barbarian of no mean rank was discovered with a dagger, who divulged
under torture the whole method of the plot, its contrivance by himself,
and his associates. The men who under a show of friendship planned the
treachery, were convicted and punished. Soon afterwards, Corbulo's envoys
whom he had sent to Tigranocerta, reported that the city walls were open,
and the inhabitants awaiting orders. They also handed him a gift denoting
friendship, a golden crown, which he acknowledged in complimentary language.
Nothing was done to humiliate the city, that remaining uninjured it might
continue to yield a more cheerful obedience. 
[14.25] The citadel, however, which
had been closed by an intrepid band of youths, was not stormed without
a struggle. They even ventured on an engagement under the walls, but were
driven back within their fortifications and succumbed at last only to our
siege-works and to the swords of furious assailants. The success was the
easier, as the Parthians were distracted by a war with the Hyrcanians,
who had sent to the Roman emperor, imploring alliance, and pointing to
the fact that they were detaining Vologeses as a pledge of amity. When
these envoys were on their way home, Corbulo, to save them from being intercepted
by the enemy's picquets after their passage of the Euphrates, gave them
an escort, and conducted them to the shores of the Red Sea, whence, avoiding
Parthian territory, they returned to their native possessions. 
[14.26] Corbulo too, as Tiridates
was entering the Armenian frontier through Media, sent on Verulanus, his
lieutenant-general with the auxiliaries, while he himself followed with
the legions by forced marches, and compelled him to retreat to a distance
and abandon the idea of war. Having harried with fire and sword all whom
he had ascertained to be against us, he began to take possession of Armenia,
when Tigranes arrived, whom Nero had selected to assume the sovereignty.
Though a Cappadocian noble and grandson of king Archelaus, yet, from having
long been a hostage at Rome, he had sunk into servile submissiveness. Nor
was he unanimously welcomed, as some still cherished a liking for the Arsacids.
Most, however, in their hatred of Parthian arrogance preferred a king given
them by Rome. He was supported too with a force of a thousand legionaries,
three allied cohorts and two squadrons of cavalry, that he might the more
easily secure his new kingdom. Parts of Armenia, according to their respective
proximities, were put under the subjection of Pharasmanes, Polemo, Aristobulus,
and Antiochus. Corbulo retired into Syria, which province, as being vacant
by the death of its governor Ummidius, was intrusted to him. 
[14.27] One of the famous cities
of Asia, Laodicea, was that same year overthrown by an earthquake, and,
without any relief from us, recovered itself by its own resources. In Italy
meanwhile the old town of Puteoli obtained from Nero the privileges of
a colony with an additional name. A further enrolment of veterans in Tarentum
and Antium did but little for those thinly peopled places; for most scattered
themselves in the provinces where they had completed their military service.
Not being accustomed to tie themselves by marriage and rear children, they
left behind them homes without families. For whole legions were no longer
transplanted, as in former days, with tribunes and centurions and soldiers
of every grade, so as to form a state by their unity and mutual attachment,
but strangers to one another from different companies, without a head or
any community of sentiment, were suddenly gathered together, as it might
be out of any other class of human beings, and became a mere crowd rather
than a colony. 
[14.28] As at the elections for praetors,
now generally under the Senate's control there was the excitement of a
particularly keen competition, the emperor quieted matters by promoting
the three supernumerary candidates to legionary commands. He also raised
the dignity of the Senate, by deciding that all who appealed from private
judges to its house, were to incur the same pecuniary risk as those who
referred their cause to the emperor. Hitherto such an appeal had been perfectly
open, and free from penalty. At the close of the year Vibius Secundus,
a Roman knight, on the accusation of the Moors, was convicted of extortion,
and banished from Italy, contriving through the influence of his brother
Vibius Crispus to escape heavier punishment. 
[14.29] In the consulship of Caesonius
Paetus and Petronius Turpilianus, a serious disaster was sustained in Britain,
where Aulius Didius, the emperor's legate, had merely retained our existing
possessions, and his successor Veranius, after having ravaged the Silures
in some trifling raids, was prevented by death from extending the war.
While he lived, he had a great name for manly independence, though, in
his will's final words, he betrayed a flatterer's weakness; for, after
heaping adulation on Nero, he added that he should have conquered the province
for him, had he lived for the next two years. Now, however, Britain was
in the hands of Suetonius Paulinus, who in military knowledge and in popular
favour, which allows no one to be without a rival, vied with Corbulo, and
aspired to equal the glory of the recovery of Armenia by the subjugation
of Rome's enemies. He therefore prepared to attack the island of Mona which
had a powerful population and was a refuge for fugitives. He built flat-bottomed
vessels to cope with the shallows, and uncertain depths of the sea. Thus
the infantry crossed, while the cavalry followed by fording, or, where
the water was deep, swam by the side of their horses. 
[14.30] On the shore stood the opposing
army with its dense array of armed warriors, while between the ranks dashed
women, in black attire like the Furies, with hair dishevelled, waving brands.
All around, the Druids, lifting up their hands to heaven, and pouring forth
dreadful imprecations, scared our soldiers by the unfamiliar sight, so
that, as if their limbs were paralysed, they stood motionless, and exposed
to wounds. Then urged by their general's appeals and mutual encouragements
not to quail before a troop of frenzied women, they bore the standards
onwards, smote down all resistance, and wrapped the foe in the flames of
his own brands. A force was next set over the conquered, and their groves,
devoted to inhuman superstitions, were destroyed. They deemed it indeed
a duty to cover their altars with the blood of captives and to consult
their deities through human entrails. 
[14.31] Suetonius while thus occupied
received tidings of the sudden revolt of the province. Prasutagus, king
of the Iceni, famed for his long prosperity, had made the emperor his heir
along with his two daughters, under the impression that this token of submission
would put his kingdom and his house out of the reach of wrong. But the
reverse was the result, so much so that his kingdom was plundered by centurions,
his house by slaves, as if they were the spoils of war. First, his wife
Boudicea was scourged, and his daughters outraged. All the chief men of
the Iceni, as if Rome had received the whole country as a gift, were stript
of their ancestral possessions, and the king's relatives were made slaves.
Roused by these insults and the dread of worse, reduced as they now were
into the condition of a province, they flew to arms and stirred to revolt
the Trinobantes and others who, not yet cowed by slavery, had agreed in
secret conspiracy to reclaim their freedom. It was against the veterans
that their hatred was most intense. For these new settlers in the colony
of Camulodunum drove people out of their houses, ejected them from their
farms, called them captives and slaves, and the lawlessness of the veterans
was encouraged by the soldiers, who lived a similar life and hoped for
similar licence. A temple also erected to the Divine Claudius was ever
before their eyes, a citadel, as it seemed, of perpetual tyranny. Men chosen
as priests had to squander their whole fortunes under the pretence of a
religious ceremonial. It appeared too no difficult matter to destroy the
colony, undefended as it was by fortifications, a precaution neglected
by our generals, while they thought more of what was agreeable than of
what was expedient. 
[14.32] Meanwhile, without any evident
cause, the statue of Victory at Camulodunum fell prostrate and turned its
back to the enemy, as though it fled before them. Women excited to frenzy
prophesied impending destruction; ravings in a strange tongue, it was said,
were heard in their Senate-house; their theatre resounded with wailings,
and in the estuary of the Tamesa had been seen the appearance of an overthrown
town; even the ocean had worn the aspect of blood, and, when the tide ebbed,
there had been left the likenesses of human forms, marvels interpreted
by the Britons, as hopeful, by the veterans, as alarming. But as Suetonius
was far away, they implored aid from the procurator, Catus Decianus. All
he did was to send two hundred men, and no more, without regular arms,
and there was in the place but a small military force. Trusting to the
protection of the temple, hindered too by secret accomplices in the revolt,
who embarrassed their plans, they had constructed neither fosse nor rampart;
nor had they removed their old men and women, leaving their youth alone
to face the foe. Surprised, as it were, in the midst of peace, they were
surrounded by an immense host of the barbarians. All else was plundered
or fired in the onslaught; the temple where the soldiers had assembled,
was stormed after a two days' siege. The victorious enemy met Petilius
Cerialis, commander of the ninth legion, as he was coming to the rescue,
routed his troops, and destroyed all his infantry. Cerialis escaped with
some cavalry into the camp, and was saved by its fortifications. Alarmed
by this disaster and by the fury of the province which he had goaded into
war by his rapacity, the procurator Catus crossed over into Gaul. 
[14.33] Suetonius, however, with
wonderful resolution, marched amidst a hostile population to Londinium,
which, though undistinguished by the name of a colony, was much frequented
by a number of merchants and trading vessels. Uncertain whether he should
choose it as a seat of war, as he looked round on his scanty force of soldiers,
and remembered with what a serious warning the rashness of Petilius had
been punished, he resolved to save the province at the cost of a single
town. Nor did the tears and weeping of the people, as they implored his
aid, deter him from giving the signal of departure and receiving into his
army all who would go with him. Those who were chained to the spot by the
weakness of their sex, or the infirmity of age, or the attractions of the
place, were cut off by the enemy. Like ruin fell on the town of Verulamium,
for the barbarians, who delighted in plunder and were indifferent to all
else, passed by the fortresses with military garrisons, and attacked whatever
offered most wealth to the spoiler, and was unsafe for defence. About seventy
thousand citizens and allies, it appeared, fell in the places which I have
mentioned. For it was not on making prisoners and selling them, or on any
of the barter of war, that the enemy was bent, but on slaughter, on the
gibbet, the fire and the cross, like men soon about to pay the penalty,
and meanwhile snatching at instant vengeance. 
[14.34] Suetonius had the fourteenth
legion with the veterans of the twentieth, and auxiliaries from the neighbourhood,
to the number of about ten thousand armed men, when he prepared to break
off delay and fight a battle. He chose a position approached by a narrow
defile, closed in at the rear by a forest, having first ascertained that
there was not a soldier of the enemy except in his front, where an open
plain extended without any danger from ambuscades. His legions were in
close array; round them, the light-armed troops, and the cavalry in dense
array on the wings. On the other side, the army of the Britons, with its
masses of infantry and cavalry, was confidently exulting, a vaster host
than ever had assembled, and so fierce in spirit that they actually brought
with them, to witness the victory, their wives riding in waggons, which
they had placed on the extreme border of the plain. 
[14.35] Boudicea, with her daughters
before her in a chariot, went up to tribe after tribe, protesting that
it was indeed usual for Britons to fight under the leadership of women.
"But now," she said, "it is not as a woman descended from
noble ancestry, but as one of the people that I am avenging lost freedom,
my scourged body, the outraged chastity of my daughters. Roman lust has
gone so far that not our very persons, nor even age or virginity, are left
unpolluted. But heaven is on the side of a righteous vengeance; a legion
which dared to fight has perished; the rest are hiding themselves in their
camp, or are thinking anxiously of flight. They will not sustain even the
din and the shout of so many thousands, much less our charge and our blows.
If you weigh well the strength of the armies, and the causes of the war,
you will see that in this battle you must conquer or die. This is a woman's
resolve; as for men, they may live and be slaves." 
[14.36] Nor was Suetonius silent
at such a crisis. Though he confided in the valour of his men, he yet mingled
encouragements and entreaties to disdain the clamours and empty threats
of the barbarians. "There," he said, "you see more women
than warriors. Unwarlike, unarmed, they will give way the moment they have
recognised that sword and that courage of their conquerors, which have
so often routed them. Even among many legions, it is a few who really decide
the battle, and it will enhance their glory that a small force should earn
the renown of an entire army. Only close up the ranks, and having discharged
your javelins, then with shields and swords continue the work of bloodshed
and destruction, without a thought of plunder. When once the victory has
been won, everything will be in your power." Such was the enthusiasm
which followed the general's address, and so promptly did the veteran soldiery,
with their long experience of battles, prepare for the hurling of the javelins,
that it was with confidence in the result that Suetonius gave the signal
of battle. 
[14.37] At first, the legion kept
its position, clinging to the narrow defile as a defence; when they had
exhausted their missiles, which they discharged with unerring aim on the
closely approaching foe, they rushed out in a wedge-like column. Similar
was the onset of the auxiliaries, while the cavalry with extended lances
broke through all who offered a strong resistance. The rest turned their
back in flight, and flight proved difficult, because the surrounding waggons
had blocked retreat. Our soldiers spared not to slay even the women, while
the very beasts of burden, transfixed by the missiles, swelled the piles
of bodies. Great glory, equal to that of our old victories, was won on
that day. Some indeed say that there fell little less than eighty thousand
of the Britons, with a loss to our soldiers of about four hundred, and
only as many wounded. Boudicea put an end to her life by poison. Poenius
Postumus too, camp-prefect of the second legion, when he knew of the success
of the men of the fourteenth and twentieth, feeling that he had cheated
his legion out of like glory, and had contrary to all military usage disregarded
the general's orders, threw himself on his sword. 
[14.38] The whole army was then brought
together and kept under canvas to finish the remainder of the war. The
emperor strengthened the forces by sending from Germany two thousand legionaries,
eight cohorts of auxiliaries, and a thousand cavalry. On their arrival
the men of the ninth had their number made up with legionary soldiers.
The allied infantry and cavalry were placed in new winter quarters, and
whatever tribes still wavered or were hostile were ravaged with fire and
sword. Nothing however distressed the enemy so much as famine, for they
had been careless about sowing corn, people of every age having gone to
the war, while they reckoned on our supplies as their own. Nations, too,
so high-spirited inclined the more slowly to peace, because Julius Classicanus,
who had been sent as successor to Catus and was at variance with Suetonius,
let private animosities interfere with the public interest, and had spread
an idea that they ought to wait for a new governor who, having neither
the anger of an enemy nor the pride of a conqueror, would deal mercifully
with those who had surrendered. At the same time he stated in a despatch
to Rome that no cessation of fighting must be expected, unless Suetonius
were superseded, attributing that general's disasters to perverseness and
his successes to good luck. 
[14.39] Accordingly one of the imperial
freedmen, Polyclitus, was sent to survey the state of Britain, Nero having
great hopes that his influence would be able not only to establish a good
understanding between the governor and the pro-curator, but also to pacify
the rebellious spirit of the barbarians. And Polyclitus, who with his enormous
suite had been a burden to Italy and Gaul, failed not, as soon as he had
crossed the ocean, to make his progresses a terror even to our soldiers.
But to the enemy he was a laughing-stock, for they still retained some
of the fire of liberty, knowing nothing yet of the power of freedmen, and
so they marvelled to see a general and an army who had finished such a
war cringing to slaves. Everything, however, was softened down for the
emperor's ears, and Suetonius was retained in the government; but as he
subsequently lost a few vessels on the shore with the crews, he was ordered,
as though the war continued, to hand over his army to Petronius Turpilianus,
who had just resigned his consulship. Petronius neither challenged the
enemy nor was himself molested, and veiled this tame inaction under the
honourable name of peace. 
[14.40] That same year two remarkable
crimes were committed at Rome, one by a senator, the other by the daring
of a slave. Domitius Balbus, an ex-praetor, from his prolonged old age,
his childlessness and his wealth, was exposed to many a plot. His kinsman,
Valerius Fabianus, who was marked out for a career of promotion, forged
a will in his name with Vinicius Rufinus and Terentius Lentinus, Roman
knights, for his accomplices. These men had associated with them Antonius
Primus and Asinius Marcellus. Antonius was a man of ready audacity; Marcellus
had the glory of being the great-grandson of Asinius Pollio, and bore a
character far from contemptible, except that he thought poverty the greatest
of all evils. So Fabianus, with the persons whom I have named and some
others less distinguished, executed the will. The crime was proved against
them before the Senate, and Fabianus and Antonius with Rufinus and Terentius
were condemned under the Cornelian law. Marcellus was saved from punishment
rather than from disgrace by the memory of his ancestors and the intercessions
of the emperor. 
[14.41] That same day was fatal also
to Pompeius Aelianus, a young ex-quaestor, suspected of complicity in the
villanies of Fabianus. He was outlawed from Italy, and from Spain, where
he was born. Valerius Pontius suffered the same degradation for having
indicted the defendants before the praetor to save them from being prosecuted
in the court of the city-prefect, purposing meanwhile to defeat justice
on some legal pretext and subsequently by collusion. A clause was added
to the Senate's decree, that whoever bought or sold such a service was
to be just as liable to punishment as if he had been publicly convicted
of false accusation. 
[14.42] Soon afterwards one of his
own slaves murdered the city-prefect, Pedanius Secundus, either because
he had been refused his freedom, for which he had made a bargain, or in
the jealousy of a love in which he could not brook his master's rivalry.
Ancient custom required that the whole slave-establishment which had dwelt
under the same roof should be dragged to execution, when a sudden gathering
of the populace, which was for saving so many innocent lives, brought matters
to actual insurrection. Even in the Senate there was a strong feeling on
the part of those who shrank from extreme rigour, though the majority were
opposed to any innovation. Of these, Caius Cassius, in giving his vote,
argued to the following effect:- 
[14.43] "Often have I been present,
Senators, in this assembly when new decrees were demanded from us contrary
to the customs and laws of our ancestors, and I have refrained from opposition,
not because I doubted but that in all matters the arrangements of the past
were better and fairer and that all changes were for the worse, but that
I might not seem to be exalting my own profession out of an excessive partiality
for ancient precedent. At the same time I thought that any influence I
possess ought not to be destroyed by incessant protests, wishing that it
might remain unimpaired, should the State ever need my counsels. To-day
this has come to pass, since an ex-consul has been murdered in his house
by the treachery of slaves, which not one hindered or divulged, though
the Senate's decree, which threatens the entire slave-establishment with
execution, has been till now unshaken. Vote impunity, in heaven's name,
and then who will be protected by his rank, when the prefecture of the
capital has been of no avail to its holder? Who will be kept safe by the
number of his slaves when four hundred have not protected Pedanius Secundus?
Which of us will be rescued by his domestics, who, even with the dread
of punishment before them, regard not our dangers? Was the murderer, as
some do not blush to pretend, avenging his wrongs because he had bargained
about money from his father or because a family-slave was taken from him?
Let us actually decide that the master was justly slain. 
[14.44] "Is it your pleasure
to search for arguments in a matter already weighed in the deliberations
of wiser men than ourselves? Even if we had now for the first time to come
to a decision, do you believe that a slave took courage to murder his master
without letting fall a threatening word or uttering a rash syllable? Granted
that he concealed his purpose, that he procured his weapon without his
fellows' knowledge. Could he pass the night-guard, could he open the doors
of the chamber, carry in a light, and accomplish the murder, while all
were in ignorance? There are many preliminaries to guilt; if these are
divulged by slaves, we may live singly amid numbers, safe among a trembling
throng; lastly, if we must perish, it will be with vengeance on the guilty.
Our ancestors always suspected the temper of their slaves, even when they
were born on the same estates, or in the same houses with themselves and
thus inherited from their birth an affection for their masters. But now
that we have in our households nations with different customs to our own,
with a foreign worship or none at all, it is only by terror you can hold
in such a motley rabble. But, it will be said, the innocent will perish.
Well, even in a beaten army when every tenth man is felled by the club,
the lot falls also on the brave. There is some injustice in every great
precedent, which, though injurious to individuals, has its compensation
in the public advantage." 
[14.45] No one indeed dared singly
to oppose the opinion of Cassius, but clamorous voices rose in reply from
all who pitied the number, age, or sex, as well as the undoubted innocence
of the great majority. Still, the party which voted for their execution
prevailed. But the sentence could not be obeyed in the face of a dense
and threatening mob, with stones and firebrands. Then the emperor reprimanded
the people by edict, and lined with a force of soldiers the entire route
by which the condemned had to be dragged to execution. Cingonius Varro
had proposed that even all the freedmen under the same roof should be transported
from Italy. This the emperor forbade, as he did not wish an ancient custom,
which mercy had not relaxed, to be strained with cruel rigour. 
[14.46] During the same consulship,
Tarquitius Priscus was convicted of extortion on the prosecution of the
Bithynians, to the great joy of the senators, who remembered that he had
impeached Statilius, his own pro-consul. An assessment was made of Gaul
by Quintus Volusius, Sextius Africanus, and Trebellius Maximus. There was
a rivalry, on the score of rank, between Volusius and Africanus. While
they both disdained Trebellius, they raised him above themselves. 
[14.47] In that year died Memmius
Regulus, who from his solid worth and consistency was as distinguished
as it is possible to be under the shadow of an emperor's grandeur, so much
so, in fact, that Nero when he was ill, with flatterers round him, who
said that if aught befell him in the course of destiny, there must be an
end of the empire, replied that the State had a resource, and on their
asking where it was specially to be found, he added, "in Memmius Regulus."
Yet Regulus lived after this, protected by his retiring habits, and by
the fact that he was a man of newly-risen family and of wealth which did
not provoke envy. Nero, the same year, established a gymnasium, where oil
was furnished to knights and senators after the lax fashion of the Greeks.

[14.48] In the consulship of Publius
Marius and Lucius Asinius, Antistius, the praetor, whose lawless behaviour
as tribune of the people I have mentioned, composed some libellous verses
on the emperor, which he openly recited at a large gathering, when he was
dining at the house of Ostorius Scapula. He was upon this impeached of
high treason by Cossutianus Capito, who had lately been restored to a senator's
rank on the intercession of his father-in-law, Tigellinus. This was the
first occasion on which the law of treason was revived, and men thought
that it was not so much the ruin of Antistius which was aimed at, as the
glory of the emperor, whose veto as tribune might save from death one whom
the Senate had condemned. Though Ostorius had stated that he had heard
nothing as evidence, the adverse witnesses were believed, and Junius Marullus,
consul-elect, proposed that the accused should be deprived of his praetorship,
and be put to death in the ancient manner. The rest assented, and then
Paetus Thrasea, after much eulogy of Caesar, and most bitter censure of
Antistius, argued that it was not what a guilty prisoner might deserve
to suffer, which ought to be decreed against him, under so excellent a
prince, and by a Senate bound by no compulsion. "The executioner and
the halter," he said, "we have long ago abolished; still, there
are punishments ordained by the laws, which prescribe penalties, without
judicial cruelty and disgrace to our age. Rather send him to some island,
after confiscating his property; there, the longer he drags on his guilty
life, the more wretched will he be personally, and the more conspicuous
as an example of public clemency." 
[14.49] Thrasea's freespokenness
broke through the servility of the other senators. As soon as the consul
allowed a division, they voted with him, with but few exceptions. Among
these, the most enthusiastic in his flattery was Aulus Vitellius, who attacked
all the best men with abuse, and was silent when they replied, the usual
way of a cowardly temper. The consuls, however, did not dare to ratify
the Senate's vote, and simply communicated their unanimous resolution to
the emperor. Hesitating for a while between shame and rage, he at last
wrote to them in reply "that Antistius, without having been provoked
by any wrong, had uttered outrageous insults against the sovereign; that
a demand for punishment had been submitted to the Senate, and that it was
right that a penalty should be decreed proportioned to the offence; that
for himself, inasmuch as he would have opposed severity in the sentence,
he would not be an obstacle to leniency. They might determine as they pleased,
and they had free liberty to acquit." This and more to the same effect
having been read out, clearly showing his displeasure, the consuls did
not for that reason alter the terms of the motion, nor did Thrasea withdraw
his proposal, or the Senate reject what it had once approved. Some were
afraid of seeming to expose the emperor to odium; the majority felt safe
in numbers, while Thrasea was supported by his usual firmness of spirit,
and a determination not to let his fame perish. 
[14.50] A similar accusation caused
the downfall of Fabricius Veiento. He had composed many libels on senators
and pontiffs in a work to which he gave the title of "Codicils."
Talius Geminus, the prosecutor, further stated that he had habitually trafficked
in the emperor's favours and in the right of promotion. This was Nero's
reason for himself undertaking the trial, and having convicted Veiento,
he banished him from Italy, and ordered the burning of his books, which,
while it was dangerous to procure them, were anxiously sought and much
read. Soon full freedom for their possession caused their oblivion. 
[14.51] But while the miseries of
the State were daily growing worse, its supports were becoming weaker.
Burrus died, whether from illness or from poison was a question. It was
supposed to be illness from the fact that from the gradual swelling of
his throat inwardly and the closing up of the passage he ceased to breathe.
Many positively asserted that by Nero's order his throat was smeared with
some poisonous drug under the pretence of the application of a remedy,
and that Burrus, who saw through the crime, when the emperor paid him a
visit, recoiled with horror from his gaze, and merely replied to his question,
"I indeed am well." Rome felt for him a deep and lasting regret,
because of the remembrance of his worth, because too of the merely passive
virtue of one of his successors and the very flagrant iniquities of the
other. For the emperor had appointed two men to the command of the praetorian
cohorts, Faenius Rufus, for a vulgar popularity, which he owed to his administration
of the corn-supplies without profit to himself; and Sofonius Tigellinus,
whose inveterate shamelessness and infamy were an attraction to him. As
might have been expected from their known characters, Tigellinus had the
greater influence with the prince, and was the associate of his most secret
profligacy, while Rufus enjoyed the favour of the people and of the soldiers,
and this, he found, prejudiced him with Nero. 
[14.52] The death of Burrus was a
blow to Seneca's power, for virtue had not the same strength when one of
its companions, so to say, was removed, and Nero too began to lean on worse
advisers. They assailed Seneca with various charges, representing that
he continued to increase a wealth which was already so vast as to be beyond
the scale of a subject, and was drawing to himself the attachment of the
citizens, while in the picturesqueness of his gardens and the magnificence
of his country houses he almost surpassed the emperor. They further alleged
against him that he claimed for himself alone the honours of eloquence,
and composed poetry more assiduously, as soon as a passion for it had seized
on Nero. "Openly inimical to the prince's amusements, he disparaged
his ability in driving horses, and ridiculed his voice whenever he sang.
When was there to be an end of nothing being publicly admired but what
Seneca was thought to have originated? Surely Nero's boyhood was over,
and he was all but in the prime of youthful manhood. He ought to shake
off a tutor, furnished as he was with sufficiently noble instructors in
his own ancestors." 
[14.53] Seneca, meanwhile, aware
of these slanders, which were revealed to him by those who had some respect
for merit, coupled with the fact that the emperor more and more shunned
his intimacy, besought the opportunity of an interview. This was granted,
and he spoke as follows:- "It is fourteen years ago, Caesar, that
I was first associated with your prospects, and eight years since you have
been emperor. In the interval, you have heaped on me such honours and riches
that nothing is wanting to my happiness but a right use of it. I will refer
to great examples taken not from my own but from your position. Your great-grandfather
Augustus granted to Marcus Agrippa the calm repose of Mitylene, to Caius
Maecenas what was nearly equivalent to a foreign retreat in the capital
itself. One of these men shared his wars; the other struggled with many
laborious duties at Rome; both received awards which were indeed splendid,
but only proportioned to their great merits. For myself, what other recompense
had I for your munificence, than a culture nursed, so to speak, in the
shade of retirement, and to which a glory attaches itself, because I thus
seem to have helped on the early training of your youth, an ample reward
for the service. "You on the other hand have surrounded me with vast
influence and boundless wealth, so that I often think within myself, Am
I, who am but of an equestrian and provincial family, numbered among the
chief men of Rome? Among nobles who can show a long succession of glories,
has my new name become famous? Where is the mind once content with a humble
lot? Is this the man who is building up his garden terraces, who paces
grandly through these suburban parks, and revels in the affluence of such
broad lands and such widely-spread investments? Only one apology occurs
to me, that it would not have been right in me to have thwarted your bounty.

[14.54] "And yet we have both
filled up our respective measures, you in giving as much as a prince can
bestow on a friend, and I in receiving as much as a friend can receive
from a prince. All else only fosters envy, which, like all things human,
sinks powerless beneath your greatness, though on me it weighs heavily.
To me relief is a necessity. Just as I should implore support if exhausted
by warfare or travel, so in this journey of life, old as I am and unequal
even to the lightest cares, since I cannot any longer bear the burden of
my wealth, I crave assistance. Order my property to be managed by your
agents and to be included in your estate. Still I shall not sink myself
into poverty, but having surrendered the splendours which dazzle me, I
will henceforth again devote to my mind all the leisure and attention now
reserved for my gardens and country houses. You have yet before you a vigorous
prime, and that on which for so many years your eyes were fixed, supreme
power. We, your older friends, can answer for our quiet behaviour. It will
likewise redound to your honour that you have raised to the highest places
men who could also bear moderate fortune." 
[14.55] Nero's reply was substantially
this:- "My being able to meet your elaborate speech with an instant
rejoinder is, I consider, primarily your gift, for you taught me how to
express myself not only after reflection but at a moment's notice. My great-grandfather
Augustus allowed Agrippa and Maecenas to enjoy rest after their labours,
but he did it at an age carrying with it an authority sufficient to justify
any boon, of any sort, he might have bestowed. But neither of them did
he strip of the rewards he had given. It was by war and its perils they
had earned them; for in these the youth of Augustus was spent. And if I
had passed my years in arms, your sword and right hand would not have failed
me. But, as my actual condition required, you watched over my boyhood,
then over my youth, with wisdom, counsel, and advice. And indeed your gifts
to me will, as long as life holds out, be lasting possessions; those which
you owe to me, your parks, investments, your country houses, are liable
to accidents. Though they seem much, many far inferior to you in merit
have obtained more. I am ashamed to quote the names of freedmen who parade
a greater wealth. Hence I actually blush to think that, standing as you
do first in my affections, you do not as yet surpass all in fortune. 
[14.56] "Yours too is a still
vigorous manhood, quite equal to the labours of business and to the fruit
of those labours; and, as for myself, I am but treading the threshold of
empire. But perhaps you count yourself inferior to Vitellius, thrice a
consul, and me to Claudius. Such wealth as long thrift has procured for
Volusius, my bounty, you think, cannot fully make up to you. Why not rather,
if the frailty of my youth goes in any respect astray, call me back and
guide yet more zealously with your help the manhood which you have instructed?
It will not be your moderation, if you restore me your wealth, not your
love of quiet, if you forsake your emperor, but my avarice, the fear of
my cruelty, which will be in all men's mouths. Even if your self-control
were praised to the utmost, still it would not be seemly in a wise man
to get glory for himself in the very act of bringing disgrace on his friend."
To these words the emperor added embraces and kisses; for he was formed
by nature and trained by habit to veil his hatred under delusive flattery.
Seneca thanked him, the usual end of an interview with a despot. But he
entirely altered the practices of his former greatness; he kept the crowds
of his visitors at a distance, avoided trains of followers, seldom appeared
in Rome, as though weak health or philosophical studies detained him at
home. 
[14.57] When Seneca had fallen, it
was easy to shake the position of Faenius Rufus by making Agrippina's friendship
a charge against him. Tigellinus, who was daily becoming more powerful
and who thought that the wicked schemings which alone gave him strength,
would be better liked if he could secure the emperor's complicity in guilt,
dived into Nero's most secret apprehensions, and, as soon as he had ascertained
that Plautus and Sulla were the men he most dreaded, Plautus having been
lately sent away to Asia, Sulla to Gallia Narbonensis, he spoke much of
their noble rank and of their respective proximity to the armies of the
East and of Germany. "I have no eye," he said, "like Burrus,
to two conflicting aims, but only to Nero's safety, which is at least secured
against treachery in Rome by my presence. As for distant commotions, how
can they be checked? Gaul is roused at the name of the great dictator,
and I distrust no less the nations of Asia, because of the renown of such
a grandfather as Drusus. Sulla is poor, and hence comes his surpassing
audacity; he shams apathy, while he is seeking an opening for his reckless
ambition. Plautus again, with his great wealth, does not so much as affect
a love of repose, but he flaunts before us his imitations of the old Romans,
and assumes the self-consciousness of the Stoics along with a philosophy,
which makes men restless, and eager for a busy life." There was not
a moment's delay. Sulla, six days afterwards, was murdered by assassins
brought over to Massilia, while he was reclining at the dinner-table, before
he feared or heard of his danger. The head was taken to Rome, and Nero
scoffed at its premature grey hairs as if they were a disfigurement. 
[14.58] It was less of a secret that
there was a design to murder Plautus, as his life was dear to many. The
distance too by land and sea, and the interval of time, had given rise
to rumours, and the popular story was that he had tampered with Corbulo,
who was then at the head of great armies, and would be a special mark for
danger, if illustrious and innocent men were to be destroyed. Again Asia,
it was said, from its partiality for the young man, had taken up arms,
and the soldiers sent to do the crime, not being sufficient in number or
decided in purpose, and, finding themselves unable to execute their orders,
had gone over to the new cause. These absurdities, like all popular gossip,
gathered strength from the idle leisure of a credulous society. As it was,
one of Plautus's freedmen, thanks to swift winds, arrived before the centurion
and brought him a message from his father-in-law, Lucius Antistius. "He
was to avoid the obvious refuge of a coward's death, and in the pity felt
for a noble name he would soon find good men to help him, and daring spirits
would rally round him. Meantime no resource was to be rejected. If he did
but repel sixty soldiers (this was the number on the way), while tidings
were being carried back to Nero, while another force was on its march,
many events would follow which would ripen into war. Finally, by this plan
he either secured safety, or he would suffer nothing worse by daring than
by cowardice." 
[14.59] But all this had no effect
on Plautus. Either he saw no resource before him, an unarmed exile as he
was, or he was weary of an uncertain hope, or was swayed by his love of
his wife and of his children, to whom he thought the emperor, if harassed
by no anxiety, would be more merciful. Some say that another message came
to him from his father-in-law, representing that no dreadful peril hung
over him, and that two teachers of philosophy, Coeranus from Greece and
Musonius from Etruria, advised him to await death with firmness rather
than lead a precarious and anxious life. At all events, he was surprised
at midday, when stripped for exercise. In that state the centurion slew
him in the presence of Pelago, an eunuch, whom Nero had set over the centurion
and his company, like a despot's minister over his satellites. The head
of the murdered man was brought to Rome. At its sight the emperor exclaimed
(I give his very words), "Why would you have been a Nero?" Then
casting off all fear he prepared to hurry on his marriage with Poppaea,
hitherto deferred because of such alarms as I have described, and to divorce
his wife Octavia, notwithstanding her virtuous life, because her father's
name and the people's affection for her made her an offence to him. He
wrote, however, a letter to the Senate, confessing nothing about the murders
of Sulla and Plautus, but merely hinting that both had a restless temper,
and that he gave the most anxious thought to the safety of the State. On
this pretext a thanksgiving was decreed, and also the expulsion from the
Senate of Sulla and Plautus, more grievous, however, as a farce than as
an actual calamity. 
[14.60] Nero, on receiving this decree
of the Senate and seeing that every piece of his wickedness was regarded
as a conspicuous merit, drove Octavia from him, alleging that she was barren,
and then married Poppaea. The woman who had long been Nero's mistress and
ruled him first as a paramour, then as her husband, instigated one of Octavia's
servants to accuse her an intrigue with a slave. The man fixed on as the
guilty lover was one by name Eucaerus, an Alexandrine by birth, skilled
in singing to the flute. As a consequence, her slave-girls were examined
under torture, and though some were forced by the intensity of agony into
admitting falsehoods, most of them persisted in upholding the virtue of
their mistress. One of them said, in answer to the furious menaces of Tigellinus,
that Octavia's person was purer than his mouth. Octavia, however, was dismissed
under the form of an ordinary divorce, and received possession of the house
of Burrus and of the estates of Plautus, an ill-starred gift. She was soon
afterwards banished to Campania under military surveillance. This led to
incessant and outspoken remonstrances among the common people, who have
less discretion and are exposed to fewer dangers than others from the insignificance
of their position. Upon this Nero, though he did not repent of his outrage,
restored to Octavia her position as wife. 
[14.61] Then people in their joy
went up to the Capitol and, at last, gave thanks to the gods. They threw
down the statues of Poppaea; they bore on their shoulders the images of
Octavia, covering them with flowers, and setting them up in the forum and
in the temples. There was even a burst of applause for the emperor, men
hailing the recalled Octavia. And now they were pouring into the Palace
in crowds, with loud shoutings, when some companies of soldiers rushed
out and dispersed the tumultuous throng with blows, and at the point of
the sword. Whatever changes had been made in the riot, were reversed, and
Poppaea's honours restored. Ever relentless in her hatred, she was now
enraged by the fear that either the violence of the mob would burst on
her with yet fiercer fury, or that Nero would be swayed by the popular
bias, and so, flinging herself at his knees, she exclaimed that she was
not in the position of a rival fighting for marriage, though that was dearer
to her than life, but that her very life was brought into jeopardy by the
dependants and slaves of Octavia, who had assumed the name of the people,
and dared in peace what could hardly happen in war. "Those arms,"
she said, "have been taken up against the emperor; a leader only is
wanting, and he will easily be found in a commotion. Only let her whose
mere beck, though she is far away, stirs up tumult, quit Campania, and
make her way in person to Rome. And, again, what is my sin? What offense
have I caused any one? Is it that I am about to give to the house of the
Caesars a lawful heir? Do the people of Rome prefer that the offspring
of an Egyptian fluteplayer should be raised to the imperial throne? In
a word, if it be expedient, Nero should of his own choice rather than on
compulsion send for her who ruled him, or else secure his safety by a righteous
vengeance. The beginning of a commotion has often been quieted by slight
precautions; but if people once despair of Octavia being Nero's wife, they
will soon find her a husband." 
[14.62] Her various arguments, tending
both to frighten and to enrage, at once alarmed and incensed her listener.
But the suspicion about the slave was of little weight, and the torture
of the slave-girls exposed its absurdity. Consequently it was decided to
procure a confession from some one on whom could also be fastened a charge
of revolutionary designs. Fittest for this seemed the perpetrator of the
mother's murder, Anicetus, commander, as I have already mentioned, of the
fleet at Misenum, who got but scant gratitude after that atrocious deed,
and subsequently all the more vehement hatred, inasmuch as men look on
their instruments in crime as a sort of standing reproach to them. The
emperor accordingly sent for Anicetus, and reminded him of his former service.
"He alone," he said, "had come to the rescue of the prince's
life against a plotting mother. Close at hand was a chance of winning no
less gratitude by ridding him of a malignant wife. No violence or weapons
were needed; only let him confess to an intrigue with Octavia." Nero
then promised him a secret but ample immediate recompense, and some delightful
retreat, while he threatened him with death in case of refusal. Anicetus,
with the moral insensibility of his nature and a promptness inspired by
previous atrocities, invented even more than was required of him, and confessed
before friends whom the prince had called in, as a sort of judicial council.
He was then banished to Sardinia, where he endured exile without poverty,
and died a natural death. 
[14.63] Nero meanwhile declared by
edict that the prefect had been corrupted into a design of gaining over
the fleet, and added, in forgetfulness of his late charge of barrenness
against Octavia, that, conscious of her profligacies, she had procured
abortion, a fact he had himself ascertained. Then he confined her in the
island of Pandataria. No exile ever filled the eyes of beholders with tears
of greater compassion. Some still remembered Agrippina, banished by Tiberius,
and the yet fresher memory of Julia, whom Claudius exiled, was present
to men's thoughts. But they had life's prime for their stay; they had seen
some happiness, and the horror of the moment was alleviated by recollections
of a better lot in the past. For Octavia, from the first, her marriage-day
was a kind of funeral, brought, as she was, into a house where she had
nothing but scenes of mourning, her father and, an instant afterwards,
her brother, having been snatched from her by poison; then, a slave-girl
raised above the mistress; Poppaea married only to insure a wife's ruin,
and, to end all, an accusation more horrible than any death. 
[14.64] And now the girl, in her
twentieth year, with centurions and soldiers around her, already removed
from among the living by the forecast of doom, still could not reconcile
herself to death. After an interval of a few days, she received an order
that she was to die, although she protested that she was now a widow and
only a sister, and appealed to their common ancestors, the Germanici, and
finally to the name of Agrippina, during whose life she had endured a marriage,
which was miserable enough indeed, but not fatal. She was then tightly
bound with cords, and the veins of every limb were opened; but as her blood
was congealed by terror and flowed too slowly, she was killed outright
by the steam of an intensely hot bath. To this was added the yet more appalling
horror of Poppaea beholding the severed head which was conveyed to Rome.
And for all this offerings were voted to the temples. I record the fact
with a special object. Whoever would study the calamities of that period
in my pages or those of other authors, is to take it for granted that as
often as the emperor directed banishments or executions, so often was there
a thanksgiving to the gods, and what formerly commemorated some prosperous
event, was then a token of public disaster. Still, if any decree of the
Senate was marked by some new flattery, or by the lowest servility, I shall
not pass it over in silence. 
[14.65] That same year Nero was believed
to have destroyed by poison two of his most powerful freedmen, Doryphorus,
on the pretext of his having opposed the marriage with Poppaea, Pallas
for still keeping his boundless wealth by a prolonged old age. Romanus
had accused Seneca in stealthy calumnies, of having been an accomplice
of Caius Piso, but he was himself crushed more effectually by Seneca on
the same charge. This alarmed Piso, and gave rise to a huge fabric of unsuccessful
conspiracies against Nero. 
Book 15 - (A.D. 62-65)
[15.1] MEANWHILE, the Parthian king,
Vologeses, when he heard of Corbulo's achievements and of a foreign prince,
Tigranes, having been set over Armenia, though he longed at the same time
to avenge the majesty of the Arsacids, which had been insulted by the expulsion
of his brother Tiridates, was, on the other hand, drawn to different thoughts
as he reflected on the greatness of Rome, and felt reverence for a hitherto
unbroken treaty. Naturally irresolute, he was now hampered by a revolt
of the Hyrcanians, a powerful tribe, and by several wars arising out of
it. Suddenly, as he was wavering, fresh and further tidings of disgrace
goaded him to action. Tigranes, quitting Armenia, had ravaged the Adiabeni,
a people on its border, too extensively and continuously for mere plundering
raids. The chief men of the tribes were indignant at having fallen into
such contempt that they were victims to the inroads, not indeed of a Roman
general, but of a daring hostage, who for so many years had been numbered
among slaves. Their anger was inflamed by Monobazus, who ruled the Adiabeni,
and repeatedly asked what protection he was to seek and from what quarter-
"Already," he said, "Armenia has been given up, and its
borders are being wrested from us, and unless the Parthians help us, we
shall find that subjection to Rome is lighter for those who surrender than
for the conquered." Tiridates too, exile as he was from his kingdom,
by his silence or very moderate complaints made the deeper impression.
"It is not," he urged, "by weak inaction that great empires
are held together; there must be the struggle of brave men in arms; might
is right with those who are at the summit of power. And though it is the
glory of a private house to keep its own, it is the glory of a king to
fight for the possessions of others." 
[15.2] Moved by these considerations
Vologeses called a council, placed Tiridates by his side, and began to
speak as follows: "This man before you, born from the same father
as myself, having waived in my favour, on the ground of age, the highest
title of all, was established by me in the possession of Armenia, which
is accounted the third grade of power. As for Media, Pacorus was already
in possession of it. And I thought to myself that I had duly arranged our
family and home so as to guard against the old feuds and rivalries of brothers.
The Romans thwart me, and though they have never with success to themselves
disturbed the peace between us, they are now again breaking it to their
own destruction. I will not attempt to deny one thing. It was by just dealing
rather than by bloodshed, by having a good cause rather than by arms, that
I had wished to retain what my ancestors had won. If I have sinned through
irresolution, my valour shall make amends for it. Assuredly your strength
and renown are at their height, and you have in addition the repute of
obedience, which the greatest of mortals must not despise, and which the
gods highly esteem." As he spoke, he encircled Tiridates' brow with
a diadem, and to Moneses, a noble, he entrusted a highly efficient body
of cavalry, which was the king's customary escort, giving him also some
auxiliaries from the Adiabeni, and orders that Tigranes was to be driven
out of Armenia. He would himself abandon his feud with the Hyrcanians,
and raise his own national force in all its warlike strength by way of
menace to the Roman provinces. 
[15.3] When Corbulo had heard all
this from messengers he could trust, he sent two legions under Verulanus
Severus and Vettius Bolanus to the support of Tigranes, with secret instructions
that they were to conduct all their operations with deliberation rather
than despatch, as he would prefer to sustain rather than to make war. And
indeed he had written to the emperor that a general was wanted specially
for the defence of Armenia, and that Syria, threatened as it was by Vologeses,
was in yet more imminent peril. Meanwhile he posted his remaining legions
on the bank of the Euphrates, armed a hastily collected force of provincials,
and occupied with troops the enemy's approaches. And as the country was
deficient in water, he established forts to guard the wells, and concealed
some of the streams with heaps of sand. 
[15.4] While Corbulo was thus preparing
for the defence of Syria, Moneses rapidly pushed on his forces to anticipate
the rumour of his advance, but he did not any the more find Tigranes unaware
of or unprepared for his movement. He had, in fact, occupied Tigranocerta,
a city strong from the multitude of its defenders and the vastness of its
fortifications. In addition, the river Nicephorius, the breadth of which
is far from contemptible, circled a portion of its walls, and a wide fosse
was drawn where they distrusted the protection of the stream. There were
some soldiers too, and supplies previously provided. In the conveyance
of these a few men had hurried on too eagerly, and, having been surprised
by a sudden attack from the enemy, had inspired their comrades with rage
rather than fear. But the Parthian has not the daring in close combat needed
for a successful siege. His thin showers of arrows do not alarm men within
walls, and only disappoint himself. The Adiabeni, when they began to advance
their scaling ladders and engines, were easily driven back, and then cut
down by a sally of our men. 
[15.5] Corbulo, however, notwithstanding
his successes thought he must use his good fortune with moderation, and
sent Vologeses a message of remonstrance against the violence done to a
Roman province, and the blockade of an allied and friendly king and of
Roman cohorts. "He had better give up the siege, or he, Corbulo too
would encamp in his territory, as on hostile ground." Casperius, a
centurion selected for this mission, had an interview with the king at
the town Nisibis, thirty-seven miles distant from Tigranocerta, and with
fearless spirit announced his message. With Vologeses it was an old and
deep conviction that he should shun the arms of Rome. Nor was the present
going smoothly with him. The seige was a failure; Tigranes was safe with
his troops and supplies; those who had undertaken the storming of the place
had been routed; legions had been sent into Armenia, and other legions
were ready to rush to the attack on behalf of Syria, while his own cavalry
was crippled by want of food. A host of locusts, suddenly appearing, had
devoured every blade of grass and every leaf. And so, hiding his fear and
presenting a more conciliatory attitude, he replied that he would send
envoys to the Roman emperor for the possession of Armenia and the conclusion
of a lasting peace. He ordered Moneses to leave Tigranocerta, while he
himself retired. 
[15.6] Many spoke highly of these
results, as due to the king's alarm and the threats of Corbulo, and as
splendid successes. Others explained them as a secret understanding that
with the cessation of war on both sides and the departure of Vologeses,
Tigranes also was to quit Armenia. "Why," it was asked, "had
the Roman army been withdrawn from Tigranocerta? Why had they abandoned
in peace what they had defended in war? Was it better for them to have
wintered on the confines of Cappadocia in hastily constructed huts, than
in the capital of a kingdom lately recovered? There had been, in short,
a suspension of arms, in order that Vologeses might fight some other foe
than Corbulo, and that Corbulo might not further risk the glory he had
earned in so many years. For, as I have related, he had asked for a general
exclusively for the defence of Armenia, and it was heard that Caesennius
Paetus was on his way. And indeed he had now arrived, and the army was
thus divided; the fourth and twelfth legions, with the fifth which had
lately been raised in Moesia and the auxiliaries from Pontus, Galatia and
Cappadocia, were under the command of Paetus, while the third, sixth, and
tenth legions and the old soldiery of Syria remained with Corbulo. All
else they were to share or divide between them according to circumstances.
But as Corbulo could not endure a rival, so Paetus, who would have been
sufficiently honoured by ranking second to him, disparaged the results
of the war, and said repeatedly that there had been no bloodshed or spoil,
that the sieges of cities were sieges only in name, and that he would soon
impose on the conquered tribute and laws and Roman administration, instead
of the empty shadow of a king. 
[15.7] About the same time the envoys
of Vologeses, who had been sent, as I have related, to the emperor, returned
without success, and the Parthians made open war. Nor did Paetus decline
the challenge, but with two legions, the 4th and 12th, the first of which
was then commanded by Funisulanus Vettonianus and the second by Calavius
Sabinus, entered Armenia, with unlucky omen. In the passage of the Euphrates,
which they crossed by a bridge, a horse which carried the consul's official
emblems, took fright without any apparent cause and fled to the rear. A
victim, too, standing by some of the winter-tents, which were being fortified,
broke its way through them, when the work was but half finished, and got
clear out of the entrenchments. Then again the soldiers' javelins gleamed
with light, a prodigy the more significant because the Parthian foe fights
with missiles. 
[15.8] Paetus, however, despising
omens, before he had yet thoroughly fortified his winter-camp or provided
for his corn supply, hurried his army across Mount Taurus, for the recovery,
as he gave out, of Tigranocerta and the ravaging of the country which Corbulo
had left untouched. Some forts too were taken, and some glory as well as
plunder had been secured, if only he had enjoyed his glory modestly, and
his plunder with vigilance. While he was overrunning in tedious expeditions
districts which could not be held, the supplies which had been captured,
were spoilt, and as winter was now at hand, he led back his army and wrote
a letter to the emperor, as if the war was finished, in pompous language,
but barren of facts. 
[15.9] Meanwhile Corbulo occupied
the bank of the Euphrates, which he had never neglected, with troops at
closer intervals. That he might have no hindrance in throwing a bridge
over it from the enemy's cavalry, which was already scouring the adjoining
plains with a formidable display, he launched on the river some vessels
of remarkable size, linked together by beams, with towers rising from their
decks, and with catapults and balistas he drove off the barbarians. The
stones and spears penetrated their host at a range beyond the reach of
the opposing volleys of arrows. The bridge was then completed, and the
hills facing us were occupied by our auxiliary infantry, then, by the entrenchments
of the legions, with such rapidity and such a display of force that the
Parthians, giving up their preparations for the invasion of Syria, concentrated
all their hopes on Armenia. 
[15.10] Paetus, ignorant of the impending
danger, was keeping the 5th legion at a distance in Pontus; the rest he
had weakened by indiscriminate furloughs, till it was heard that Vologeses
was approaching with a powerful force bent on war. He summoned the 12th
legion, and then was discovered the numerical feebleness of the source
from which he had hoped for the repute of an augmented army. Yet even thus
the camp might have been held, and the Parthian foe baffled, by protracting
the war, had Paetus stood firm either by his own counsels or by those of
others. But though military men had put him on his guard against imminent
disasters, still, not wishing to seem to need the advice of others, he
would fall back on some quite different and inferior plan. So now, leaving
his winter quarters, and exclaiming that not the fosse or the rampart,
but the men's bodies and weapons were given him for facing the foe, he
led out his legions, as if he meant to fight a battle. Then, after losing
a centurion and a few soldiers whom he had sent on in advance to reconnoitre
the enemy's forces, he returned in alarm. And, as Vologeses had not pressed
his advantage with much vigour, Paetus once again, with vain confidence,
posted 3000 chosen infantry on the adjacent ridge of the taurus, in order
to bar the king's passage. He also stationed some Pannonian troopers, the
flower of his cavalry, in a part of the plain. His wife and son he removed
to a fortress named Arsamosata, with a cohort for their defence, thus dispersing
the troops which, if kept together, could easily have checked the desultory
skirmishing of the enemy. He could, it is said, scarcely be driven to confess
to Corbulo how the enemy was pressing him. Corbulo made no haste, that,
when the dangers thickened, the glory of the rescue might be enhanced.
Yet he ordered 1000 men from each of his three legions with 800 cavalry,
and an equal number of infantry to be in instant readiness. 
[15.11] Vologeses meanwhile, though
he had heard that the roads were blocked by Paetus, here with infantry,
there with cavalry, did not alter his plan, but drove off the latter by
the menace of an attack, and crushed the legionaires, only one centurion
of whom, Tarquitius Crescens, dared to defend a tower in which he was keeping
guard. He had often sallied out, and cut to pieces such of the barbarians
as came close up to the walls, till he was overwhelmed with volleys of
firebrands. Every foot soldier still unwounded fled to remote wilds, and
those who were disabled, returned to the camp, exaggerating in their terror
the king's valour, and the warlike strength of his tribes, everything in
short, to the simple credulity of those who trembled with like fear. Even
the general did not struggle against his reverses. He had indeed wholly
abandoned all the duties of a soldier, and had again sent an entreaty to
Corbulo, that he would come with speed to save the standards and eagles,
and the name yet left to the unfortunate army; they meantime, he said,
would hold to their fidelity while life lasted. 
[15.12] Corbulo, perfectly fearless,
left half his army in Syria to retain the forts built on the Euphrates,
and taking the nearest route, which also was not deficient in supplies,
marched through the country of Commagene, then through Cappadocia, and
thence into Armenia. Beside the other usual accompaniments of war, his
army was followed by a great number of camels laden with corn, to keep
off famine as well as the enemy. The first he met of the defeated army
was Paccius, a first-rank centurion, then many of the soldiers, whom, when
they pleaded various excuses for flight, he advised to return to their
standards and throw themselves on the mercy of Paetus. "For himself,"
he said, "he had no forgiveness but for the victorious." As he
spoke, he went up to his legions, cheering them and reminding them of their
past career, and pointing the way to new glory. "It was not to villages
or towns of Armenia, but to a Roman camp with two legions, a worthy recompense
for their efforts, that they were bound. If each common soldier were to
have bestowed on him by the emperor's hand the special honour of a crown
for a rescued citizen, how wonderfully great the glory, when the numbers
would be equal of those who had brought and of those had received deliverance."
Roused by these and like words into a common enthusiasm, and some too were
filled with an ardour peculiarly their own by the perils of brothers and
kinsfolk, they hurried on by day and night their uninterrupted march. 
[15.13] All the more vigorously did
Vologeses press the besieged, now attacking the legions' entrenchments,
and now again the fortress, which guarded those whose years unfitted them
for war. He advanced closer than is the Parthian practice, seeking to lure
the enemy to an engagement by such rashness. They, however, could hardly
be dragged out of their tents, and would merely defend their lives, some
held back by the general's order, others by their own cowardice; they seemed
to be awaiting Corbulo, and should they be overpowered by force, they had
before them the examples of Candium and Numantia. "Neither the Samnites,
Italian people as they were, nor the Carthaginians, the rivals of the Roman
empire, were, it seemed, equally formidable, and even the men of old, with
all their strength and glory, whenever fortune was adverse, had taken thought
for safety." The general, although he was overcome by the despair
of his army, first wrote a letter to Vologeses, not a suppliant petition,
but in a tone of remonstrance against the doing of hostile acts on behalf
of the Armenians, who always had been under Roman dominion, or subject
to a king chosen by the emperor. Peace, he reminded him, was equally for
the interest of both, and it would be well for him not to look only at
the present. He indeed had advanced with the whole strength of his kingdom
against two legions, while the Romans had all the rest of the world with
which to sustain the war. 
[15.14] To this Vologeses replied
nothing to the purpose, but merely that he must wait for his brothers Pacorus
and Tiridates, that the place and time of their meeting had been fixed
on as the occasion when they would decide about Armenia, and that heaven
had granted them a further honour, well worthy of the Arsacids, the having
to determine the fate of Roman legions. Messengers were then despatched
by Paetus and an interview requested with the king, who ordered Vasaces,
the commander of the cavalry, to go. Thereupon Paetus dwelt on the memories
of the Luculli and Pompeii, and of all that the Caesars had done in the
way of holding or giving away Armenia, while Vasaces declared that we had
the mere shadow of possession and of bestowing, but the Parthians, the
reality of power. After much arguing on both sides, Monobazus of the Adiabeni
was called the next day to be a witness to the stipulations into which
they had entered. It was agreed that the legions should be released from
the blockade, that all the troops should quit Armenian territory, and that
the forts and supplies should be surrendered to the Parthians, and when
all this had been completed, Vologeses was to have full permission to send
envoys to Nero. 
[15.15] Meanwhile Paetus threw a
bridge over the river Arsanias, which flowed by the camp, apparently with
the view of facilitating his march. It was the Parthians, however, who
had required this, as an evidence of their victory; for the bridge was
of use to them, while our men went a different way. Rumour added that the
legions had been passed under the yoke, with other miserable disgraces,
of which the Armenians had borrowed imitations. For they not only entered
our lines before the Roman army began to retire, but also stood about the
camp streets, recognizing and dragging off slaves or beasts of burden which
we had previously captured. They even seized clothes and detained weapons,
for the soldiers were utterly cowed and gave up everything, so that no
cause for fighting might arise. Vologeses having piled up the arms and
bodies of the slain in order to attest our defeat, refrained from gazing
on the fugitive legions. He sought a character for moderation after he
had glutted his pride. Seated himself on an elephant, he crossed the river
Arsanias, while those next to his person rushed through it at the utmost
speed of their horses; for a rumour had gained ground that the bridge would
give way, through the trickery of its builders. But those who ventured
to go on it found it to be firm and trustworthy. 
[15.16] As for the besieged, it appeared
that they had such an abundance of corn that they fired the granaries,
and Corbulo declared that the Parthians on the other hand were in want
of supplies, and would have abandoned the siege from their fodder being
all but exhausted, and that he was himself only three days' march distant.
He further stated that Paetus had guaranteed by an oath, before the standards,
in the presence of those whom the king had sent to be witnesses, that no
Roman was to enter Armenia until Nero's reply arrived as to whether he
assented to the peace. Though this may have been invented to enhance our
disgrace, yet about the rest of the story there is no obscurity, that,
in a single day Paetus traversed forty miles, leaving his wounded behind
him everywhere, and that the consternation of the fugitives was as frightful
as if they had turned their backs in battle. Corbulo, as he met them with
his forces on the bank of the Euphrates, did not make such a display of
his standards and arms as to shame them by the contrast. His men, in their
grief and pity for the lot of their comrades, could not even refrain from
tears. There was scarce any mutual salutation for weeping. The spirit of
a noble rivalry and the desire of glory, emotions which stir men in success,
had died away; pity alone survived, the more strongly in the inferior ranks.

[15.17] Then followed a short conversation
between the generals. While Corbulo complained that his efforts had been
fruitless and that the war might have been ended with the flight of the
Parthians, Paetus replied that for neither of them was anything lost, and
urged that they should reverse the eagles, and with their united forces
invade Armenia, much weakened, as it was, by the departure of Vologeses.
Corbulo said that he had no such instructions from the emperor; it was
the peril of the legions which had stirred him to leave his province, and,
as there was uncertainty about the designs of the Parthians, he should
return to Syria, and, even as it was, he must pray for fortune under her
most favourable aspect in order that the infantry, wearied out with long
marches, might keep pace with the enemy's untiring cavalry, certain to
outstrip him on the plains, which facilitated their movements. Paetus then
went into winter quarters in Cappadocia. Vologeses, however, sent a message
to Corbulo, requiring him to remove the fortresses on the further bank
of the Euphrates, and to leave the river to be, as formerly, the boundary
between them. Corbulo also demanded the evacuation of Armenia by the garrisons
posted throughout it. At last the king yielded, all the positions fortified
by Corbulo beyond the Euphrates were destroyed, and the Armenians too left
without a master. 
[15.18] At Rome meanwhile trophies
for the Parthian war, and arches were erected in the centre of the Capitoline
hill; these had been decreed by the Senate, while the war was yet undecided,
and even now they were not given up, appearances being consulted, in disregard
of known facts. And to hide his anxious fears about foreign affairs, Nero
threw the people's corn, which was so old as to be spoilt, into the Tiber,
with the view of keeping up a sense of security about the supplies. There
was no addition to the price, although about two hundred ships were destroyed
in the very harbour by a violent storm, and one hundred more, which had
sailed up the Tiber, by an accidental fire. Nero next appointed three ex-consuls,
Lucius Piso, Ducennius Geminus, and Pompeius Paulinus, to the management
of the public revenues, and inveighed at the same time against former emperors
whose heavy expenditure had exceeded their legitimate income. He himself,
he said, made the state an annual present of sixty million sesterces. 
[15.19] A very demoralizing custom
had at this time become rife, of fictitious adoptions of children, on the
eve of the elections or of the assignment of the provinces, by a number
of childless persons, who, after obtaining along with real fathers praetorships
and provinces, forthwith dismissed from paternal control the sons whom
they had adopted. An appeal was made to the Senate under a keen sense of
wrong. Parents pleaded natural rights and the anxieties of nurture against
fraudulent evasions and the brief ceremony of adoption. "It was,"
they argued, "sufficient reward for the childless to have influence
and distinction, everything, in short, easy and open to them, without a
care and without a burden. For themselves, they found that the promises
held out by the laws, for which they had long waited, were turned into
mockery, when one who knew nothing of a parent's solicitude or of the sorrows
of bereavement could rise in a moment to the level of a father's long deferred
hopes." On this, a decree of the Senate was passed that a fictitious
adoption should be of no avail in any department of the public service,
or even hold good for acquiring an inheritance. 
[15.20] Next came the prosecution
of Claudius Timarchus of Crete, on such charges as often fall on very influential
provincials, whom immense wealth has emboldened to the oppression of the
weak. But one speech of his had gone to the extremity of a gross insult
to the Senate; for he had repeatedly declared that it was in his power
to decide whether the proconsuls who had governed Crete should receive
the thanks of the province. Paetus Thrasea, turning the occasion to public
advantage, after having stated his opinion that the accused ought to be
expelled from Crete, further spoke as follows:- "It is found by experience,
Senators, that admirable laws and right precedents among the good have
their origin in the misdeeds of others. Thus the license of advocates resulted
in the Cincian bill; the corrupt practices of candidates, in the Julian
laws; the rapacity of magistrates, in the Calpurnian enactments. For, in
point of time, guilt comes before punishment, and correction follows after
delinquency. And therefore, to meet the new insolence of provincials, let
us adopt a measure worthy of Roman good faith and resolution, whereby our
allies may lose nothing of our protection, while public opinion may cease
to say of us, that the estimate of a man's character is to found anywhere
rather than in the judgment of our citizens. 
[15.21] "Formerly, it was not
only a praetor or a consul, but private persons also, who were sent to
inspect the provinces, and to report what they thought about each man's
loyalty. And nations were timidly sensitive to the opinion of individuals.
But now we court foreigners and flatter them, and just as there is a vote
of thanks at any one's pleasure, so even more eagerly is a prosecution
decided on. Well; let it be decided on, and let the provincials retain
the right of showing their power in this fashion, but as for false praise
which has been extorted by entreaties, let it be as much checked as fraud
or tyranny. More faults are often committed, while we are trying to oblige
than while we are giving offence. Nay, some virtues are actually hated;
inflexible strictness, for example, and a temper proof against partiality.
Consequently, our magistrates' early career is generally better than its
close, which deteriorates, when we are anxiously seeking votes, like candidates.
If such practices are stopped, our provinces will be ruled more equitably
and more steadily. For as the dread of a charge of extortion has been a
check to rapacity, so, by prohibiting the vote of thanks, will the pursuit
of popularity be restrained." 
[15.22] This opinion was hailed with
great unanimity, but the Senate's resolution could not be finally passed,
as the consuls decided that there had been no formal motion on the subject.
Then, at the emperor's suggestion, they decreed that no one was to propose
to any council of our allies that a vote of thanks ought to be given in
the Senate to propraetors or proconsuls, and that no one was to discharge
such a mission. During the same consulship a gymnasium was wholly consumed
by a stroke of lightning, and a statue of Nero within it was melted down
to a shapeless mass of bronze. An earthquake too demolished a large part
of Pompeii, a populous town in Campania. And one of the vestal virgins,
Laelia, died, and in her place was chosen Cornelia, of the family of the
Cossi. 
[15.23] During the consulship of
Memmius Regulus and Verginius Rufus, Nero welcomed with something more
than mortal joy the birth of a daughter by Poppaea, whom he called Augusta,
the same title having also been given to Poppaea. The place of her confinement
was the colony of Antium, where the emperor himself was born. Already had
the Senate commended Poppaea's safety to the gods, and had made vows in
the State's name, which were repeated again and again and duly discharged.
To these was added a public thanksgiving, and a temple was decreed to the
goddess of fecundity, as well as games and contests after the type of the
ceremonies commemorative of Actium, and golden images of the two Fortunes
were to be set up on the throne of Jupiter of the Capitol. Shows too of
the circus were to be exhibited in honour of the Claudian and Domitian
families at Antium, like those at Bovillae in commemoration of the Julii.
Transient distinctions all of them, as within four months the infant died.
Again there was an outburst of flattery, men voting the honours of deification,
of a shrine, a temple, and a priest. The emperor, too, was as excessive
in his grief as he had been in his joy. It was observed that when all the
Senate rushed out to Antium to honour the recent birth, Thrasea was forbidden
to go, and received with fearless spirit an affront which foreboded his
doom. Then followed, as rumour says, an expression from the emperor, in
which he boasted to Seneca of his reconciliation with Thrasea, on which
Seneca congratulated him. And now henceforth the glory and the peril of
these illustrious men grew greater. 
[15.24] Meanwhile, in the beginning
of spring, Parthian envoys brought a message from king Vologeses, with
a letter to the same effect. "He did not," it was said, "repeat
his former and frequent claims to the holding of Armenia, since the gods
who ruled the destinies of the most powerful nations, had handed over its
possession to the Parthians, not without disgrace to Rome. Only lately,
he had besieged Tigranes; afterwards, he let Paetus and his legions depart
in safety when he could have destroyed them. He had tried force with a
satisfactory result; he had also given clemency a trial. Nor would Tiridates
refuse a journey to Rome to receive the crown, were he not detained at
home by the duties of a sacred office. He was ready to go to the emperor's
image in the Roman headquarters, and there in the presence of the legions
inaugurate his reign." 
[15.25] As Paetus's despatch contradicted
this letter from Vologeses and implied that matters were unchanged, the
centurion who had arrived with the envoys was questioned as to the state
of Armenia. He replied that all the Romans had quitted it. Then was perceived
the mockery of the barbarians in petitioning for what they had wrested
from us, and Nero consulted with the chief men of the State whether they
should accept a dangerous war or a disgraceful peace. There was no hesitation
about war. Corbulo, who had known our soldiers and the enemy for so many
years, was appointed to conduct it, that there might be no more blunders
through any other officer's incapacity; for people were utterly disgusted
with Paetus. So the envoys were sent back without an answer, but with some
presents, in order to inspire a hope that Tiridates would not make the
same request in vain, if only he presented his petition in person. The
administration of Syria was intrusted to Caius Itius, and the military
forces to Corbulo, to which was added the fifteenth legion, under the leadership
of Marius Celsus, from Pannonia. Written orders were sent to the tetrarchs,
the tributaries, kings, prefects and procurators, and all the praetors
who governed the neighbouring provinces, to obey Corbulo's commands, as
his powers were enlarged on much the same scale as that which the Roman
people had granted to Cneius Pompeius on the eve of his war against the
Pirates. When Paetus returned and dreaded something worse, the emperor
thought it enough to reproach him with a jest, to the effect that he pardoned
him at once, lest one so ready to take fright might sink under prolonged
suspense. 
[15.26] Corbulo meantime transferred
to Syria the fourth and twelfth legions, which, from the loss of their
bravest men and the panic of the remainder, seemed quite unfit for battle,
and led thence into Armenia the third and sixth legions, troops in thorough
efficiency, and trained by frequent and successful service. And he added
to his army the fifth legion, which, having been quartered in Pontus, had
known nothing of disaster, with men of the fifteenth, lately brought up,
and picked veterans from Illyricum and Egypt, and all the allied cavalry
and infantry, and the auxiliaries of the tributary princes, which had been
concentrated at Melitene, where he was preparing to cross the Euphrates.
Then, after the due lustration of his army, he called them together for
an harangue, and began with grand allusions to the imperial auspices, and
to his own achievements, while he attributed their disasters to the incapacity
of Paetus. He spoke with much impressiveness, which in him, as a military
man, was as good as eloquence. 
[15.27] He then pursued the route
opened up in former days by Lucius Lucullus, clearing away the obstructions
of long years. Envoys who came to him from Tiridates and Vologeses about
peace, he did not repulse, but sent back with them some centurions with
a message anything but harsh. "Matters," he said, "have
not yet gone so far as to require the extremity of war. Many successes
have fallen to the lot of Rome, some to that of Parthia, as a warning against
pride. Therefore, it is to the advantage of Tiridates to accept as a gift
a kingdom yet unhurt by the ravages of war, and Vologeses will better consult
the welfare of the Parthian people by an alliance with Rome than by mutual
injuries. I know how much there is of internal discord, and over what untamably
fierce tribes he reigns. My emperor, on the other hand, has undisturbed
peace all around him, and this is his only war." In an instant Corbulo
backed up his advice by a menacing attitude. He drove from their possessions
the nobles of Armenia, who had been the first to revolt from us, destroyed
their fortresses, and spread equal panic throughout the plain and the hill
country, among the strong and among the weak. 
[15.28] Against the name of Corbulo
no rage, nothing of the hatred of an enemy, was felt by the barbarians,
and they therefore thought his advice trustworthy. Consequently Vologeses
was not implacable to the uttermost, and he even asked a truce for some
divisions of his kingdom. Tiridates demanded a place and a day for an interview.
The time was to be soon, the place that in which Paetus and his legions
had been lately besieged, for this was chosen by the barbarians in remembrance
for their more prosperous fortune. Corbulo did not refuse, resolved that
a widely different issue should enhance his renown. Nor did the disgrace
of Paetus trouble him, as was clearly proved by the fact that he commanded
Paetus' son, who was a tribune, to take some companies with him and cover
up the relics of that ill-starred battle-field. On the day appointed, Tiberius
Alexander, a distinguished Roman knight, sent to assist in the campaign,
and Vinianus Annius, Corbulo's son-in-law, who, though not yet of a senator's
age, had the command of the fifth legion as "legatus," entered
the camp of Tiridates, by way of compliment to him, and to reassure him
against treachery by so valuable a pledge. Each then took with him twenty
horsemen. The king, seeing Corbulo, was the first to dismount, and Corbulo
hesitated not a moment, but both on foot joined their right hands. 
[15.29] Then the Roman commended
the young prince for abandoning rash courses, and adopting a safe and expedient
policy. Tiridates first dwelt much on the nobility of his race, but went
on to speak in a tone of moderation. He would go to Rome, and bring the
emperor a new glory, a suppliant Arsacid, while Parthia was prosperous.
It was then agreed that Tiridates should lay down his royal crown before
Caesar's image, and resume it only from the hand of Nero. The interview
then ended with a kiss. After an interval of a few days there was a grand
display on both sides; on the one, cavalry ranged in squadrons with their
national ensigns; on the other, stood the columns of our legions with glittering
eagles and standards and images of deities, after the appearance of a temple.
In the midst, on a tribunal, was a chair of state, and on the chair a statue
of Nero. To this Tiridates advanced, and having slain the customary victims,
he removed the crown from his head, and set it at the foot of the statue;
whereupon all felt a deep thrill of emotion, rendered the more intense
by the sight which yet lingered before their eyes, of the slaughter or
siege of Roman armies. "But now," they thought, "the calamity
is reversed; Tiridates is about to go, a spectacle to the world, little
better than a prisoner." 
[15.30] To military glory Corbulo
added courtesy and hospitality. When the king continually asked the reason
of whatever he noticed which was new to him, the announcements, for example,
by a centurion of the beginnings of each watch, the dismissal of the guests
by the sound of a trumpet, and the lighting by a torch from beneath of
an altar in front of the headquarters, Corbulo, by exaggerating everything,
filled him with admiration of our ancient system. Next day Tiridates begged
for time which, as he was about to enter on so long a journey, might suffice
for a previous visit to his brothers and his mother. Meanwhile he gave
up his daughter as a hostage, and prepared a suppliant letter to Nero.

[15.31] He then departed, and found
Pacorus in Media, and Vologeses at Ecbatana, who was by no means unconcerned
for his brother. In fact, Vologeses had entreated Corbulo by special messengers,
that Tiridates might not have to endure any badge of slavery, or have to
deliver up his sword, or be debarred the honour of embracing the governors
of the provinces, or have to present himself at their doors, and that he
might be treated at Rome with as much respect as the consuls. Accustomed,
forsooth, to foreign arrogance, he had no knowledge of us, who value the
reality of empire and disregard its empty show. 
[15.32] That same year the emperor
put into possession of the Latin franchise the tribes of the maritime Alps.
To the Roman knights he assigned places in the circus in front of the seats
of the people, for up to that time they used to enter in a promiscuous
throng, as the Roscian law extended only to fourteen rows in the theatre.
The same year witnessed shows of gladiators as magnificent as those of
the past. Many ladies of distinction, however, and senators, disgraced
themselves by appearing in the amphitheatre. 
[15.33] In the year of the consulship
of Caius Laecanius and Marcus Licinius a yet keener impulse urged Nero
to show himself frequently on the public stage. Hitherto he had sung in
private houses or gardens, during the juvenile games, but these he now
despised, as being but little frequented, and on too small a scale for
so fine a voice. As, however, he did not venture to make a beginning at
Rome, he chose Neapolis, because it was a Greek city. From this as his
starting-point he might cross into Achaia, and there, winning the well-known
and sacred garlands of antiquity, evoke, with increased fame, the enthusiasm
of the citizens. Accordingly, a rabble of the townsfolk was brought together,
with those whom the excitement of such an event had attracted from the
neighbouring towns and colonies, and such as followed in the emperor's
train to pay him honour or for various objects. All these, with some companies
of soldiers, filled the theatre at Neapolis. 
[15.34] There an incident occurred,
which many thought unlucky, though to the emperor it seemed due to the
providence of auspicious deities. The people who had been present, had
quitted the theatre, and the empty building then fell in without harm to
anyone. Thereupon Nero in an elaborate ode thanked the gods, celebrating
the good luck which attended the late downfall, and as he was on his way
to cross the sea of Hadria, he rested awhile at Beneventum, where a crowded
gladiatorial show was being exhibited by Vatinius. The man was one of the
most conspicuously infamous sights in the imperial court, bred, as he had
been, in a shoemaker's shop, of a deformed person and vulgar wit, originally
introduced as a butt. After a time he grew so powerful by accusing all
the best men, that in influence, wealth, and ability to injure, he was
pre-eminent even in that bad company. 
[15.35] While Nero was frequently
visiting the show, even amid his pleasures there was no cessation to his
crimes. For during the very same period Torquatus Silanus was forced to
die, because over and above his illustrious rank as one of the Junian family
he claimed to be the great-grandson of Augustus. Accusers were ordered
to charge him with prodigality in lavishing gifts, and with having no hope
but in revolution. They said further that he had nobles about him for his
letters, books, and accounts, titles all and rehearsals of supreme power.
Then the most intimate of his freedmen were put in chains and torn from
him, till, knowing the doom which impended, Torquatus divided the arteries
in his arms. A speech from Nero followed, as usual, which stated that though
he was guilty and with good reason distrusted his defence, he would yet
have lived, had he awaited the clemency of the judge. 
[15.36] Soon afterwards, giving up
Achaia for the present (his reasons were not certainly known), he returned
to Rome, there dwelling in his secret imaginations on the provinces of
the east, especially Egypt. Then having declared in a public proclamation
that his absence would not be long and that all things in the State would
remain unchanged and prosperous, he visited the temple of the Capitol for
advice about his departure. There he adored the gods; then he entered also
the temple of Vesta, and there feeling a sudden trembling throughout his
limbs, either from terror inspired by the deity or because, from the remembrance
of his crimes, he was never free from fear, he relinquished his purpose,
repeatedly saying that all his plans were of less account than his love
of his country. "He had seen the sad countenances of the citizens,
he heard their secret complainings at the prospect of his entering on so
long a journey, when they could not bear so much as his brief excursions,
accustomed as they were to cheer themselves under mischances by the sight
of the emperor. Hence, as in private relationships the closest ties were
the strongest, so the people of Rome had the most powerful claims and must
be obeyed in their wish to retain him." These and the like sentiments
suited the people, who craved amusement, and feared, always their chief
anxiety, scarcity of corn, should he be absent. The Senate and leading
citizens were in doubt whether to regard him as more terrible at a distance
or among them. After a while, as is the way with great terrors, they thought
what happened the worst alternative. 
[15.37] Nero, to win credit for himself
of enjoying nothing so much as the capital, prepared banquets in the public
places, and used the whole city, so to say, as his private house. Of these
entertainments the most famous for their notorious profligacy were those
furnished by Tigellinus, which I will describe as an illustration, that
I may not have again and again to narrate similar extravagance. He had
a raft constructed on Agrippa's lake, put the guests on board and set it
in motion by other vessels towing it. These vessels glittered with gold
and ivory; the crews were arranged according to age and experience in vice.
Birds and beasts had been procured from remote countries, and sea monsters
from the ocean. On the margin of the lake were set up brothels crowded
with noble ladies, and on the opposite bank were seen naked prostitutes
with obscene gestures and movements. As darkness approached, all the adjacent
grove and surrounding buildings resounded with song, and shone brilliantly
with lights. Nero, who polluted himself by every lawful or lawless indulgence,
had not omitted a single abomination which could heighten his depravity,
till a few days afterwards he stooped to marry himself to one of that filthy
herd, by name Pythagoras, with all the forms of regular wedlock. The bridal
veil was put over the emperor; people saw the witnesses of the ceremony,
the wedding dower, the couch and the nuptial torches; everything in a word
was plainly visible, which, even when a woman weds darkness hides. 
[15.38] A disaster followed, whether
accidental or treacherously contrived by the emperor, is uncertain, as
authors have given both accounts, worse, however, and more dreadful than
any which have ever happened to this city by the violence of fire. It had
its beginning in that part of the circus which adjoins the Palatine and
Caelian hills, where, amid the shops containing inflammable wares, the
conflagration both broke out and instantly became so fierce and so rapid
from the wind that it seized in its grasp the entire length of the circus.
For here there were no houses fenced in by solid masonry, or temples surrounded
by walls, or any other obstacle to interpose delay. The blaze in its fury
ran first through the level portions of the city, then rising to the hills,
while it again devastated every place below them, it outstripped all preventive
measures; so rapid was the mischief and so completely at its mercy the
city, with those narrow winding passages and irregular streets, which characterised
old Rome. Added to this were the wailings of terror-stricken women, the
feebleness of age, the helpless inexperience of childhood, the crowds who
sought to save themselves or others, dragging out the infirm or waiting
for them, and by their hurry in the one case, by their delay in the other,
aggravating the confusion. Often, while they looked behind them, they were
intercepted by flames on their side or in their face. Or if they reached
a refuge close at hand, when this too was seized by the fire, they found
that, even places, which they had imagined to be remote, were involved
in the same calamity. At last, doubting what they should avoid or whither
betake themselves, they crowded the streets or flung themselves down in
the fields, while some who had lost their all, even their very daily bread,
and others out of love for their kinsfolk, whom they had been unable to
rescue, perished, though escape was open to them. And no one dared to stop
the mischief, because of incessant menaces from a number of persons who
forbade the extinguishing of the flames, because again others openly hurled
brands, and kept shouting that there was one who gave them authority, either
seeking to plunder more freely, or obeying orders. 
[15.39] Nero at this time was at
Antium, and did not return to Rome until the fire approached his house,
which he had built to connect the palace with the gardens of Maecenas.
It could not, however, be stopped from devouring the palace, the house,
and everything around it. However, to relieve the people, driven out homeless
as they were, he threw open to them the Campus Martius and the public buildings
of Agrippa, and even his own gardens, and raised temporary structures to
receive the destitute multitude. Supplies of food were brought up from
Ostia and the neighbouring towns, and the price of corn was reduced to
three sesterces a peck. These acts, though popular, produced no effect,
since a rumour had gone forth everywhere that, at the very time when the
city was in flames, the emperor appeared on a private stage and sang of
the destruction of Troy, comparing present misfortunes with the calamities
of antiquity. 
[15.40] At last, after five days,
an end was put to the conflagration at the foot of the Esquiline hill,
by the destruction of all buildings on a vast space, so that the violence
of the fire was met by clear ground and an open sky. But before people
had laid aside their fears, the flames returned, with no less fury this
second time, and especially in the spacious districts of the city. Consequently,
though there was less loss of life, the temples of the gods, and the porticoes
which were devoted to enjoyment, fell in a yet more widespread ruin. And
to this conflagration there attached the greater infamy because it broke
out on the Aemilian property of Tigellinus, and it seemed that Nero was
aiming at the glory of founding a new city and calling it by his name.
Rome, indeed, is divided into fourteen districts, four of which remained
uninjured, three were levelled to the ground, while in the other seven
were left only a few shattered, half-burnt relics of houses. 
[15.41] It would not be easy to enter
into a computation of the private mansions, the blocks of tenements, and
of the temples, which were lost. Those with the oldest ceremonial, as that
dedicated by Servius Tullius to Luna, the great altar and shrine raised
by the Arcadian Evander to the visibly appearing Hercules, the temple of
Jupiter the Stayer, which was vowed by Romulus, Numa's royal palace, and
the sanctuary of Vesta, with the tutelary deities of the Roman people,
were burnt. So too were the riches acquired by our many victories, various
beauties of Greek art, then again the ancient and genuine historical monuments
of men of genius, and, notwithstanding the striking splendour of the restored
city, old men will remember many things which could not be replaced. Some
persons observed that the beginning of this conflagration was on the 19th
of July, the day on which the Senones captured and fired Rome. Others have
pushed a curious inquiry so far as to reduce the interval between these
two conflagrations into equal numbers of years, months, and days. 
[15.42] Nero meanwhile availed himself
of his country's desolation, and erected a mansion in which the jewels
and gold, long familiar objects, quite vulgarised by our extravagance,
were not so marvellous as the fields and lakes, with woods on one side
to resemble a wilderness, and, on the other, open spaces and extensive
views. The directors and contrivers of the work were Severus and Celer,
who had the genius and the audacity to attempt by art even what nature
had refused, and to fool away an emperor's resources. They had actually
undertaken to sink a navigable canal from the lake Avernus to the mouths
of the Tiber along a barren shore or through the face of hills, where one
meets with no moisture which could supply water, except the Pomptine marshes.
The rest of the country is broken rock and perfectly dry. Even if it could
be cut through, the labour would be intolerable, and there would be no
adequate result. Nero, however, with his love of the impossible, endeavoured
to dig through the nearest hills to Avernus, and there still remain the
traces of his disappointed hope. 
[15.43] Of Rome meanwhile, so much
as was left unoccupied by his mansion, was not built up, as it had been
after its burning by the Gauls, without any regularity or in any fashion,
but with rows of streets according to measurement, with broad thoroughfares,
with a restriction on the height of houses, with open spaces, and the further
addition of colonnades, as a protection to the frontage of the blocks of
tenements. These colonnades Nero promised to erect at his own expense,
and to hand over the open spaces, when cleared of the debris, to the ground
landlords. He also offered rewards proportioned to each person's position
and property, and prescribed a period within which they were to obtain
them on the completion of so many houses or blocks of building. He fixed
on the marshes of Ostia for the reception of the rubbish, and arranged
that the ships which had brought up corn by the Tiber, should sail down
the river with cargoes of this rubbish. The buildings themselves, to a
certain height, were to be solidly constructed, without wooden beams, of
stone from Gabii or Alba, that material being impervious to fire. And to
provide that the water which individual license had illegally appropriated,
might flow in greater abundance in several places for the public use, officers
were appointed, and everyone was to have in the open court the means of
stopping a fire. Every building, too, was to be enclosed by its own proper
wall, not by one common to others. These changes which were liked for their
utility, also added beauty to the new city. Some, however, thought that
its old arrangement had been more conducive to health, inasmuch as the
narrow streets with the elevation of the roofs were not equally penetrated
by the sun's heat, while now the open space, unsheltered by any shade,
was scorched by a fiercer glow. 
[15.44] Such indeed were the precautions
of human wisdom. The next thing was to seek means of propitiating the gods,
and recourse was had to the Sibylline books, by the direction of which
prayers were offered to Vulcanus, Ceres, and Proserpina. Juno, too, was
entreated by the matrons, first, in the Capitol, then on the nearest part
of the coast, whence water was procured to sprinkle the fane and image
of the goddess. And there were sacred banquets and nightly vigils celebrated
by married women. But all human efforts, all the lavish gifts of the emperor,
and the propitiations of the gods, did not banish the sinister belief that
the conflagration was the result of an order. Consequently, to get rid
of the report, Nero fastened the guilt and inflicted the most exquisite
tortures on a class hated for their abominations, called Christians by
the populace. Christus, from whom the name had its origin, suffered the
extreme penalty during the reign of Tiberius at the hands of one of our
procurators, Pontius Pilatus, and a most mischievous superstition, thus
checked for the moment, again broke out not only in Judaea, the first source
of the evil, but even in Rome, where all things hideous and shameful from
every part of the world find their centre and become popular. Accordingly,
an arrest was first made of all who pleaded guilty; then, upon their information,
an immense multitude was convicted, not so much of the crime of firing
the city, as of hatred against mankind. Mockery of every sort was added
to their deaths. Covered with the skins of beasts, they were torn by dogs
and perished, or were nailed to crosses, or were doomed to the flames and
burnt, to serve as a nightly illumination, when daylight had expired. Nero
offered his gardens for the spectacle, and was exhibiting a show in the
circus, while he mingled with the people in the dress of a charioteer or
stood aloft on a car. Hence, even for criminals who deserved extreme and
exemplary punishment, there arose a feeling of compassion; for it was not,
as it seemed, for the public good, but to glut one man's cruelty, that
they were being destroyed. 
[15.45] Meanwhile Italy was thoroughly
exhausted by contributions of money, the provinces were ruined, as also
the allied nations and the free states, as they were called. Even the gods
fell victims to the plunder; for the temples in Rome were despoiled and
the gold carried off, which, for a triumph or a vow, the Roman people in
every age had consecrated in their prosperity or their alarm. Throughout
Asia and Achaia not only votive gifts, but the images of deities were seized,
Acratus and Secundus Carinas having been sent into those provinces. The
first was a freedman ready for any wickedness; the latter, as far as speech
went, was thoroughly trained in Greek learning, but he had not imbued his
heart with sound principles. Seneca, it was said, to avert from himself
the obloquy of sacrilege, begged for the seclusion of a remote rural retreat,
and, when it was refused, feigning ill health, as though he had a nervous
ailment, would not quit his chamber. According to some writers, poison
was prepared for him at Nero's command by his own freedman, whose name
was Cleonicus. This Seneca avoided through the freedman's disclosure, or
his own apprehension, while he used to support life on the very simple
diet of wild fruits, with water from a running stream when thirst prompted.

[15.46] During the same time some
gladiators in the town of Praeneste, who attempted to break loose, were
put down by a military guard stationed on the spot to watch them, and the
people, ever desirous and yet fearful of change, began at once to talk
of Spartacus, and of bygone calamities. Soon afterwards, tidings of a naval
disaster was received, but not from war, for never had there been so profound
a peace. Nero, however, had ordered the fleet to return to Campania on
a fixed day, without making any allowance for the dangers of the sea. Consequently
the pilots, in spite of the fury of the waves, started from Formiae, and
while they were struggling to double the promontory of Misenum, they were
dashed by a violent south-west wind on the shores of Cumae, and lost, in
all directions, a number of their triremes with some smaller vessels. 
[15.47] At the close of the year
people talked much about prodigies, presaging impending evils. Never were
lightning flashes more frequent, and a comet too appeared, for which Nero
always made propitiation with noble blood. Human and other births with
two heads were exposed to public view, or were discovered in those sacrifices
in which it is usual to immolate victims in a pregnant condition. And in
the district of Placentia, close to the road, a calf was born with its
head attached to its leg. Then followed an explanation of the diviners,
that another head was preparing for the world, which however would be neither
mighty nor hidden, as its growth had been checked in the womb, and it had
been born by the wayside. 
[15.48] Silius Nerva and Atticus
Vestinus then entered on the consulship, and now a conspiracy was planned,
and at once became formidable, for which senators, knights, soldiers, even
women, had given their names with eager rivalry, out of hatred of Nero
as well as a liking for Caius Piso. A descendant of the Calpurnian house,
and embracing in his connections through his father's noble rank many illustrious
families, Piso had a splendid reputation with the people from his virtue
or semblance of virtue. His eloquence he exercised in the defence of fellow-citizens,
his generosity towards friends, while even for strangers he had a courteous
address and demeanour. He had, too, the fortuitous advantages of tall stature
and a handsome face. But solidity of character and moderation in pleasure
were wholly alien to him. He indulged in laxity, in display, and occasionally
in excess. This suited the taste of that numerous class who, when the attractions
of vice are so powerful, do not wish for strictness or special severity
on the throne. 
[15.49] The origin of the conspiracy
was not in Piso's personal ambition. But I could not easily narrate who
first planned it, or whose prompting inspired a scheme into which so many
entered. That the leading spirits were Subrius Flavus, tribune of a praetorian
cohort, and Sulpicius Asper, a centurion, was proved by the fearlessness
of their death. Lucanus Annaeus, too, and Plautius Lateranus, imported
into it an intensely keen resentment. Lucanus had the stimulus of personal
motives, for Nero tried to disparage the fame of his poems and, with the
foolish vanity of a rival, had forbidden him to publish them. As for Lateranus,
a consul-elect, it was no wrong, but love of the State which linked him
with the others. Flavius Scaevinus and Afranius Quintianus, on the other
hand, both of senatorian rank, contrary to what was expected of them, undertook
the beginning of this daring crime. Scaevinus, indeed, had enfeebled his
mind by excess, and his life, accordingly, was one of sleepy languor. Quintianus,
infamous for his effeminate vice, had been satirised by Nero in a lampoon,
and was bent on avenging the insult. 
[15.50] So, while they dropped hints
among themselves or among their friends about the emperor's crimes, the
approaching end of empire, and the importance of choosing some one to rescue
the State in its distress, they associated with them Tullius Senecio, Cervarius
Proculus, Vulcatius Araricus, Julius Augurinus, Munatius Gratus, Antonius
Natalis, and Marcius Festus, all Roman knights. Of these Senecio, one of
those who was specially intimate with Nero, still kept up a show of friendship,
and had consequently to struggle with all the more dangers. Natalis shared
with Piso all his secret plans. The rest built their hopes on revolution.
Besides Subrius and Sulpicius, whom I have already mentioned, they invited
the aid of military strength, of Gavius Silvanus and Statius Proximus,
tribunes of praetorian cohorts, and of two centurions, Maximus Scaurus
and Venetus Paulus. But their mainstay, it was thought, was Faenius Rufus,
the commander of the guard, a man of esteemed life and character, to whom
Tigellinus with his brutality and shamelessness was superior in the emperor's
regard. He harassed him with calumnies, and had often put him in terror
by hinting that he had been Agrippina's paramour, and from sorrow at her
loss was intent on vengeance. And so, when the conspirators were assured
by his own repeated language that the commander of the praetorian guard
had come over to their side, they once more eagerly discussed the time
and place of the fatal deed. It was said that Subrius Flavus had formed
a sudden resolution to attack Nero when singing on the stage, or when his
house was in flames and he was running hither and thither, unattended,
in the darkness. In the one case was the opportunity of solitude; in the
other, the very crowd which would witness so glorious a deed, had roused
a singularly noble soul; it was only the desire of escape, that foe to
all great enterprises, which held him back. 
[15.51] Meanwhile, as they hesitated
in prolonged suspense between hope and fear, a certain Epicharis (how she
informed herself is uncertain, as she had never before had a thought of
anything noble) began to stir and upbraid the conspirators. Wearied at
last of their long delay, she endeavoured, when staying in Campania, to
shake the loyalty of the officers of the fleet at Misenum, and to entangle
them in a guilty complicity. She began thus. There was a captain in the
fleet, Volusius Proculus, who had been one of Nero's instruments in his
mother's murder, and had not, as he thought, been promoted in proportion
to the greatness of his crime. Either, as an old acquaintance of the woman,
or on the strength of a recent intimacy, he divulged to her his services
to Nero and their barren result to himself, adding complaints, and his
determination to have vengeance, should the chance arise. He thus inspired
the hope that he could be persuaded, and could secure many others. No small
help was to be found in the fleet, and there would be numerous opportunities,
as Nero delighted in frequent enjoyment of the sea off Puteoli and Misenum.
Epicharis accordingly said more, and began the history of all the emperor's
crimes. "The Senate," she affirmed, "had no power left it;
yet means had been provided whereby he might pay the penalty of having
destroyed the State. Only let Proculus gird himself to do his part and
bring over to their side his bravest soldiers, and then look for an adequate
recompense." The conspirators' names, however, she withheld. Consequently
the information of Proculus was useless, even though he reported what he
had heard to Nero. For Epicharis being summoned and confronted with the
informer easily silenced him, unsupported as he was by a single witness.
But she was herself detained in custody, for Nero suspected that even what
was not proved to be true, was not wholly false. 
[15.52] The conspirators, however,
alarmed by the fear of disclosure, resolved to hurry on the assassination
at Baiae, in Piso's villa, whither the emperor, charmed by its loveliness,
often went, and where, unguarded and without the cumbrous grandeur of his
rank, he would enjoy the bath and the banquet. But Piso refused, alleging
the odium of an act which would stain with an emperor's blood, however
bad he might be, the sanctity of the hospitable board and the deities who
preside over it. "Better," he said, "in the capital, in
that hateful mansion which was piled up with the plunder of the citizens,
or in public, to accomplish what on the State's behalf they had undertaken."
So he said openly, with however a secret apprehension that Lucius Silanus
might, on the strength of his distinguished rank and the teachings of Caius
Cassius, under whom he had been trained, aspire to any greatness and seize
an empire, which would be promptly offered him by all who had no part in
the conspiracy, and who would pity Nero as the victim of a crime. Many
thought that Piso shunned also the enterprising spirit of Vestinus, the
consul, who might, he feared, rise up in the cause of freedom, or, by choosing
another emperor, make the State his own gift. Vestinus, indeed, had no
share in the conspiracy, though Nero on that charge gratified an old resentment
against an innocent man. 
[15.53] At last they decided to carry
out their design on that day of the circus games, which is celebrated in
honour of Ceres, as the emperor, who seldom went out, and shut himself
up in his house or gardens, used to go to the entertainments of the circus,
and access to him was the easier from his keen enjoyment of the spectacle.
They had so arranged the order of the plot, that Lateranus was to throw
himself at the prince's knees in earnest entreaty, apparently craving relief
for his private necessities, and, being a man of strong nerve and huge
frame, hurl him to the ground and hold him down. When he was prostrate
and powerless, the tribunes and centurions and all the others who had sufficient
daring were to rush up and do the murder, the first blow being claimed
by Scaevinus, who had taken a dagger from the Temple of Safety, or, according
to another account, from that of Fortune, in the town of Ferentum, and
used to wear the weapon as though dedicated to some noble deed. Piso, meanwhile,
was wait in the sanctuary of Ceres, whence he was to be summoned by Faenius,
the commander of the guard, and by the others, and then conveyed into the
camp, accompanied by Antonia, the daughter of Claudius Caesar, with a view
to evoke the people's enthusiasm. So it is related by Caius Pliny. Handed
down from whatever source, I had no intention of suppressing it, however
absurd it may seem, either that Antonia should have lent her name at her
life's peril to a hopeless project, or that Piso, with his well-known affection
for his wife, should have pledged himself to another marriage, but for
the fact that the lust of dominion inflames the heart more than any other
passion. 
[15.54] It was however wonderful
how among people of different class, rank, age, sex, among rich and poor,
everything was kept in secrecy till betrayal began from the house of Scaevinus.
The day before the treacherous attempt, after a long conversation with
Antonius Natalis, Scaevinus returned home, sealed his will, and, drawing
from its sheath the dagger of which I have already spoken, and complaining
that it was blunted from long disuse, he ordered it to be sharpened on
a stone to a keen and bright point. This task he assigned to his freedman
Milichus. At the same time sat down to a more than usually sumptuous banquet,
and gave his favourite slaves their freedom, and money to others. He was
himself depressed, and evidently in profound thought, though he affected
gaiety in desultory conversation. Last of all, he directed ligatures for
wounds and the means of stanching blood to be prepared by the same Milichus,
who either knew of the conspiracy and was faithful up to this point, or
was in complete ignorance and then first caught suspicions, as most authors
have inferred from what followed. For when his servile imagination dwelt
on the rewards of perfidy, and he saw before him at the same moment boundless
wealth and power, conscience and care for his patron's life, together with
the remembrance of the freedom he had received, fled from him. From his
wife, too, he had adopted a womanly and yet baser suggestion; for she even
held over him a dreadful thought, that many had been present, both freedmen
and slaves, who had seen what he had; that one man's silence would be useless,
whereas the rewards would be for him alone who was first with the information.

[15.55] Accordingly at daybreak Milichus
went to the Servilian gardens, and, finding the doors shut against him,
said again and again that he was the bearer of important and alarming news.
Upon this he was conducted by the gatekeepers to one of Nero's freedmen,
Epaphroditus, and by him to Nero, whom he informed of the urgent danger,
of the formidable conspiracy, and of all else which he had heard or inferred.
He showed him too the weapon prepared for his destruction, and bade him
summon the accused. Scaevinus on being arrested by the soldiers began his
defence with the reply that the dagger about which he was accused, had
of old been regarded with a religious sentiment by his ancestors, that
it had been kept in his chamber, and been stolen by a trick of his freedman.
He had often, he said, signed his will without heeding the observance of
particular days, and had previously given presents of money as well as
freedom to some of his slaves, only on this occasion he gave more freely,
because, as his means were now impoverished and his creditors were pressing
him, he distrusted the validity of his will. Certainly his table had always
been profusely furnished, and his life luxurious, such as rigid censors
would hardly approve. As to the bandages for wounds, none had been prepared
at his order, but as all the man's other charges were absurd, he added
an accusation in which he might make himself alike informer and witness.

[15.56] He backed up his words by
an air of resolution. Turning on his accuser, he denounced him as an infamous
and depraved wretch, with so fearless a voice and look that the information
was beginning to collapse, when Milichus was reminded by his wife that
Antonious Natalis had had a long secret conversation with Scaevinus, and
that both were Piso's intimate friends. Natalis was therefore summoned,
and they were separately asked what the conversation was, and what was
its subject. Then a suspicion arose because their answers did not agree,
and they were both put in irons. They could not endure the sight and the
threat of torture. Natalis however, taking the initiative, knowing as he
did more of the whole conspiracy, and being also more practised in accusing,
first confessed about Piso, next added the name of Annaeus Seneca, either
as having been a messenger between him and Piso, or to win the favour of
Nero, who hated Seneca and sought every means for his ruin. Then Scaevinus
too, when he knew the disclosure of Natalis, with like pusillanimity, or
under the impression that everything now divulged, and that there could
be no advantage in silence, revealed the other conspirators. Of these,
Lucanus, Quintianus, and Senecio long persisted in denial; after a time,
when bribed by the promise of impunity, anxious to excuse their reluctance,
Lucanus named his mother Atilla, Quintianus and Senecio, their chief friends,
respectively, Glitius Gallus and Annius Pollio. 
[15.57] Nero, meanwhile, remembering
that Epicharis was in custody on the information of Volusius Proculus,
and assuming that a woman's frame must be unequal to the agony, ordered
her to be torn on the rack. But neither the scourge nor fire, nor the fury
of the men as they increased the torture that they might not be a woman's
scorn, overcame her positive denial of the charge. Thus the first day's
inquiry was futile. On the morrow, as she was being dragged back on a chair
to the same torments (for with her limbs all dislocated she could not stand),
she tied a band, which she had stript off her bosom, in a sort of noose
to the arched back of the chair, put her neck in it, and then straining
with the whole weight of her body, wrung out of her frame its little remaining
breath. All the nobler was the example set by a freedwoman at such a crisis
in screening strangers and those whom she hardly knew, when freeborn men,
Roman knights, and senators, yet unscathed by torture, betrayed, every
one, his dearest kinsfolk. For even Lucanus and Senecio and Quintianus
failed not to reveal their accomplices indiscriminately, and Nero was more
and more alarmed, though he had fenced his person with a largely augmented
guard. 
[15.58] Even Rome itself he put,
so to say, under custody, garrisoning its walls with companies of soldiers
and occupying with troops the coast and the river-banks. Incessantly were
there flying through the public places, through private houses, country
fields, and the neighbouring villages, horse and foot soldiers, mixed with
Germans, whom the emperor trusted as being foreigners. In long succession,
troops of prisoners in chains were dragged along and stood at the gates
of his gardens. When they entered to plead their cause, a smile of joy
on any of the conspirators, a casual conversation, a sudden meeting, or
the fact of having entered a banquet or a public show in company, was construed
into a crime, while to the savage questionings of Nero and Tigellinus were
added the violent menaces of Faenius Rufus, who had not yet been named
by the informers, but who, to get the credit of complete ignorance, frowned
fiercely on his accomplices. When Subius Flavus at his side asked him by
a sign whether he should draw his sword in the middle of the trial and
perpetrate the fatal deed, Rufus refused, and checked the man's impulse
as he was putting his hand to his sword-hilt. 
[15.59] Some there were who, as soon
as the conspiracy was betrayed, urged Piso, while Milichus' story was being
heard, and Scaevinus was hesitating, to go to the camp or mount the Rostra
and test the feelings of the soldiers and of the people. "If,"
said they, "your accomplices join your enterprise, those also who
are yet undecided, will follow, and great will be the fame of the movement
once started, and this in any new scheme is all-powerful. Against it Nero
has taken no precaution. Even brave men are dismayed by sudden perils;
far less will that stageplayer, with Tigellinus forsooth and his concubines
in his train, raise arms against you. Many things are accomplished on trial
which cowards think arduous. It is vain to expect secrecy and fidelity
from the varying tempers and bodily constitutions of such a host of accomplices.
Torture or reward can overcome everything. Men will soon come to put you
also in chains and inflict on you an ignominious death. How much more gloriously
will you die while you cling to the State and invoke aid for liberty. Rather
let the soldiers fail, the people be traitors, provided that you, if prematurely
robbed of life, justify your death to your ancestors and descendants."
Unmoved by these considerations, Piso showed himself a few moments in public,
then sought the retirement of his house, and there fortified his spirit
against the worst, till a troop of soldiers arrived, raw recruits, or men
recently enlisted, whom Nero had selected, because he was afraid of the
veterans, imbued, though they were, with a liking for him. Piso expired
by having the veins in his arms severed. His will, full of loathsome flatteries
of Nero, was a concession to his love of his wife, a base woman, with only
a beautiful person to recommend her, whom he had taken away from her husband,
one of his friends. Her name was Atria Galla; that of her former husband,
Domitius Silus. The tame spirit of the man, the profligacy of the woman,
blazoned Piso's infamy. 
[15.60] In quick succession Nero
added the murder of Plautius Lateranus, consul-elect, so promptly that
he did not allow him to embrace his children or to have the brief choice
of his own death. He was dragged off to a place set apart for the execution
of slaves, and butchered by the hand of the tribune Statius, maintaining
a resolute silence, and not reproaching the tribune with complicity in
the plot. Then followed the destruction of Annaeus Seneca, a special joy
to the emperor, not because he had convicted him of the conspiracy, but
anxious to accomplish with the sword what poison had failed to do. It was,
in fact, Natalis alone who divulged Seneca's name, to this extent, that
he had been sent to Seneca when ailing, to see him and remonstrate with
him for excluding Piso from his presence, when it would have been better
to have kept up their friendship by familiar intercourse; that Seneca's
reply was that mutual conversations and frequent interviews were to the
advantage of neither, but still that his own life depended on Piso's safety.
Gavius Silvanus, tribune of a praetorian cohort, was ordered to report
this to Seneca and to ask him whether he acknowledged what Natalis said
and his own answer. Either by chance or purposely Seneca had returned on
that day from Campania, and had stopped at a countryhouse four miles from
Rome. Thither the tribune came next evening, surrounded the house with
troops of soldiers, and then made known the emperor's message to Seneca
as he was at dinner with his wife, Pompeia Paulina, and two friends. 
[15.61] Seneca replied that Natalis
had been sent to him and had complained to him in Piso's name because of
his refusal to see Piso, upon which he excused himself on the ground of
failing health and the desire of rest. "He had no reason," he
said, for "preferring the interest of any private citizen to his own
safety, and he had no natural aptitude for flattery. No one knew this better
than Nero, who had oftener experienced Seneca's freespokenness than his
servility." When the tribune reported this answer in the presence
of Poppaea and Tigellinus, the emperor's most confidential advisers in
his moments of rage, he asked whether Seneca was meditating suicide. Upon
this the tribune asserted that he saw no signs of fear, and perceived no
sadness in his words or in his looks. He was accordingly ordered to go
back and to announce sentence of death. Fabius Rusticus tells us that he
did not return the way he came, but went out of his course to Faenius,
the commander of the guard, and having explained to him the emperor's orders,
and asked whether he was to obey them, was by him admonished to carry them
out, for a fatal spell of cowardice was on them all. For this very Silvanus
was one of the conspirators, and he was now abetting the crimes which he
had united with them to avenge. But he spared himself the anguish of a
word or of a look, and merely sent in to Seneca one of his centurions,
who was to announce to him his last doom. 
[15.62] Seneca, quite unmoved, asked
for tablets on which to inscribe his will, and, on the centurion's refusal,
turned to his friends, protesting that as he was forbidden to requite them,
he bequeathed to them the only, but still the noblest possession yet remaining
to him, the pattern of his life, which, if they remembered, they would
win a name for moral worth and steadfast friendship. At the same time he
called them back from their tears to manly resolution, now with friendly
talk, and now with the sterner language of rebuke. "Where," he
asked again and again, "are your maxims of philosophy, or the preparation
of so many years' study against evils to come? Who knew not Nero's cruelty?
After a mother's and a brother's murder, nothing remains but to add the
destruction of a guardian and a tutor." 
[15.63] Having spoken these and like
words, meant, so to say, for all, he embraced his wife; then softening
awhile from the stern resolution of the hour, he begged and implored her
to spare herself the burden of perpetual sorrow, and, in the contemplation
of a life virtuously spent, to endure a husband's loss with honourable
consolations. She declared, in answer, that she too had decided to die,
and claimed for herself the blow of the executioner. There upon Seneca,
not to thwart her noble ambition, from an affection too which would not
leave behind him for insult one whom he dearly loved, replied: "I
have shown you ways of smoothing life; you prefer the glory of dying. I
will not grudge you such a noble example. Let the fortitude of so courageous
an end be alike in both of us, but let there be more in your decease to
win fame." Then by one and the same stroke they sundered with a dagger
the arteries of their arms. Seneca, as his aged frame, attenuated by frugal
diet, allowed the blood to escape but slowly, severed also the veins of
his legs and knees. Worn out by cruel anguish, afraid too that his sufferings
might break his wife's spirit, and that, as he looked on her tortures,
he might himself sink into irresolution, he persuaded her to retire into
another chamber. Even at the last moment his eloquence failed him not;
he summoned his secretaries, and dictated much to them which, as it has
been published for all readers in his own words, I forbear to paraphrase.

[15.64] Nero meanwhile, having no
personal hatred against Paulina and not wishing to heighten the odium of
his cruelty, forbade her death. At the soldiers' prompting, her slaves
and freedmen bound up her arms, and stanched the bleeding, whether with
her knowledge is doubtful. For as the vulgar are ever ready to think the
worst, there were persons who believed that, as long as she dreaded Nero's
relentlessness, she sought the glory of sharing her husband's death, but
that after a time, when a more soothing prospect presented itself, she
yielded to the charms of life. To this she added a few subsequent years,
with a most praise worthy remembrance of her husband, and with a countenance
and frame white to a degree of pallor which denoted a loss of much vital
energy. Seneca meantime, as the tedious process of death still lingered
on, begged Statius Annaeus, whom he had long esteemed for his faithful
friendship and medical skill, to produce a poison with which he had some
time before provided himself, same drug which extinguished the life of
those who were condemned by a public sentence of the people of Athens.
It was brought to him and he drank it in vain, chilled as he was throughout
his limbs, and his frame closed against the efficacy of the poison. At
last he entered a pool of heated water, from which he sprinkled the nearest
of his slaves, adding the exclamation, "I offer this liquid as a libation
to Jupiter the Deliverer." He was then carried into a bath, with the
steam of which he was suffocated, and he was burnt without any of the usual
funeral rites. So he had directed in a codicil of his will, when even in
the height of his wealth and power he was thinking of his life's close.

[15.65] There was a rumour that Sabrius
Flavus had held a secret consultation with the centurions, and had planned,
not without Seneca's knowledge, that when Nero had been slain by Piso's
instrumentality, Piso also was to be murdered, and the empire handed over
to Seneca, as a man singled out for his splendid virtues by all persons
of integrity. Even a saying of Flavus was popularly current, "that
it mattered not as to the disgrace if a harp-player were removed and a
tragic actor succeeded him." For as Nero used to sing to the harp,
so did Piso in the dress of a tragedian. 
[15.66] The soldiers' part too in
the conspiracy no longer escaped discovery, some in their rage becoming
informers to betray Faenius Rufus, whom they could not endure to be both
an accomplice and a judge. Accordingly Scaevinus, in answer to his browbeating
and menaces, said with a smile that no one knew more than he did, and actually
urged him to show gratitude to so good a prince. Faenius could not meet
this with either speech or silence. Halting in his words and visibly terror-stricken,
while the rest, especially Cervarius Proculus, a Roman knight, did their
utmost to convict him, he was, at the emperor's bidding, seized and bound
by Cassius, a soldier, who because of his well-known strength of limb was
in attendance. 
[15.67] Shortly afterwards, the information
of the same men proved fatal to Subrius Flavus. At first he grounded his
defence on his moral contrast to the others, implying that an armed soldier,
like himself, would never have shared such an attempt with unarmed and
effeminate associates. Then, when he was pressed, he embraced the glory
of a full confession. Questioned by Nero as to the motives which had led
him on to forget his oath of allegiance, "I hated you," he replied;
"yet not a soldier was more loyal to you while you deserved to be
loved. I began to hate you when you became the murderer of your mother
and your wife, a charioteer, an actor, and an incendiary." I have
given the man's very words, because they were not, like those of Seneca,
generally published, though the rough and vigorous sentiments of a soldier
ought to be no less known. Throughout the conspiracy nothing, it was certain,
fell with more terror on the ears of Nero, who was as unused to be told
of the crimes he perpetrated as he was eager in their perpetration. The
punishment of Flavus was intrusted to Veianius Niger, a tribune. At his
direction, a pit was dug in a neighbouring field. Flavus, on seeing it,
censured it as too shallow and confined, saying to the soldiers around
him, "Even this is not according to military rule." When bidden
to offer his neck resolutely, "I wish," said he, "that your
stroke may be as resolute." The tribune trembled greatly, and having
only just severed his head at two blows, vaunted his brutality to Nero,
saying that he had slain him with a blow and a half. 
[15.68] Sulpicius Asper, a centurion,
exhibited the next example of fortitude. To Nero's question why he had
conspired to murder him, he briefly replied that he could not have rendered
a better service to his infamous career. He then underwent the prescribed
penalty. Nor did the remaining centurions forget their courage in suffering
their punishment. But Faenius Rufus had not equal spirit; he even put his
laments into his will. Nero waited in the hope that Vestinus also, the
consul, whom he thought an impetuous and deeply disaffected man, would
be involved in the charge. None however of the conspirators had shared
their counsels with him, some from old feuds against him, most because
they considered him a reckless and dangerous associate. Nero's hatred of
him had had its origin in intimate companionship, Vestinus seeing through
and despising the emperor's cowardice, while Nero feared the high spirit
of his friend, who often bantered him with that rough humour which, when
it draws largely on facts, leaves a bitter memory behind it. There was
too a recent aggravation in the circumstance of Vestinus having married
Statilia Messalina, without being ignorant that the emperor was one of
her paramours. 
[15.69] As neither crime nor accuser
appeared, Nero, being thus unable to assume the semblance of a judge, had
recourse to the sheer might of despotism, and despatched Gerellanus, a
tribune, with a cohort of soldiers, and with orders to forestall the designs
of the consul, to seize what he might call his fortress, and crush his
train of chosen youths. For Vestinus had a house towering over the Forum,
and a host of handsome slaves of the same age. On that day he had performed
all his duties as consul, and was entertaining some guests, fearless of
danger, or perhaps by way of hiding his fears, when the soldiers entered
and announced to him the tribune's summons. He rose without a moment's
delay, and every preparation was at once made. He shut himself into his
chamber; a physician was at his side; his veins were opened; with life
still strong in him, he was carried into a bath, and plunged into warm
water, without uttering a word of pity for himself. Meanwhile the guards
surrounded those who had sat at his table, and it was only at a late hour
of the night that they were dismissed, when Nero, having pictured to himself
and laughed over their terror at the expectation of a fatal end to their
banquet, said that they had suffered enough punishment for the consul's
entertainment. 
[15.70] Next he ordered the destruction
of Marcus Annaeus Lucanus. As the blood flowed freely from him, and he
felt a chill creeping through his feet and hands, and the life gradually
ebbing from his extremities, though the heart was still warm and he retained
his mental power, Lucanus recalled some poetry he had composed in which
he had told the story of a wounded soldier dying a similar kind of death,
and he recited the very lines. These were his last words. After him, Senecio,
Quintianus, and Scaevinus perished, not in the manner expected from the
past effeminacy of their life, and then the remaining conspirators, without
deed or word deserving record. 
[15.71] Rome all this time was thronged
with funerals, the Capitol with sacrificial victims. One after another,
on the destruction of a brother, a kinsman, or a friend, would return thanks
to the gods, deck his house with laurels, prostrate himself at the knees
of the emperor, and weary his hand with kisses. He, in the belief that
this was rejoicing, rewarded with impunity the prompt informations of Antonius
Natalis and Cervarius Proculus. Milichus was enriched with gifts and assumed
in its Greek equivalent the name of Saviour. Of the tribunes, Gavius Silvanus,
though acquitted, perished by his own hand; Statius Proximus threw away
the benefit of the pardon he had accepted from the emperor by the folly
of his end. Cornelius Martialis, Flavius Nepos, Statius Domitius were then
deprived of the tribuneship, on the ground, not of actually hating the
emperor, but of having the credit of it. Novius Priscus, as Seneca's friend,
Glitius Gallus, and Annius Pollio, as men disgraced rather than convicted,
escaped with sentences of banishment. Priscus and Gallus were accompanied
respectively by their wives, Artoria Flaccilla and Egnatia Maximilla. The
latter possessed at first a great fortune, still unimpaired, and was subsequently
deprived of it, both which circumstances enhanced her fame. Rufius Crispinus
too was banished, on the opportune pretext of the conspiracy, but he was
in fact hated by Nero, because he had once been Poppaea's husband. It was
the splendour of their name which drove Verginius Flavus and Musonius Rufus
into exile. Verginius encouraged the studies of our youth by his eloquence;
Rufus by the teachings of philosophy. Cluvidienus Quietus, Julius Agrippa,
Blitius Catulinus, Petronius Priscus, Julius Altinus, mere rank and file,
so to say, had islands in the Aegean Sea assigned to them. Caedicia, the
wife of Scaevinus, and Caesonius Maximus were forbidden to live in Italy,
their penalty being the only proof they had of having been accused. Atilla,
the mother of Annaeus Lucanus, without either acquittal or punishment,
was simply ignored. 
[15.72] All this having been completed,
Nero assembled the troops and distributed two thousand sesterces to every
common soldier, with an addition of as much corn without payment, as they
had previously the use of at the market price. Then, as if he was going
to describe successes in war, he summoned the Senate, and awarded triumphal
honours to Petronius Turpilianus, an ex-consul, to Cocceius Nerva, praetor-elect,
and to Tigellinus, commander of the praetorians. Tigellinus and Nerva he
so distinguished as to place busts of them in the palace in addition to
triumphal statues in the Forum. He granted a consul's decorations to Nymphidius,
on whose origin, as he now appears for the first time, I will briefly touch.
For he too will be a part of Rome's calamities. The son of a freedwoman,
who had prostituted a handsome person among the slaves and freedmen of
the emperors, he gave out that he was the offspring of Caius Caesar, for
he happened to be of tall stature and to have a fierce look, or possibly
Caius Caesar, who liked even harlots, had also amused himself with the
man's mother. 
[15.73] Nero meanwhile summoned the
Senate, addressed them in a speech, and further added a proclamation to
the people, with the evidence which had been entered on records, and the
confessions of the condemned. He was indeed perpetually under the lash
of popular talk, which said that he had destroyed men perfectly innocent
out of jealousy or fear. However, that a conspiracy was begun, matured,
and conclusively proved was not doubted at the time by those who took pains
to ascertain the truth, and is admitted by those who after Nero's death
returned to the capital. When every one in the Senate, those especially
who had most cause to mourn, abased himself in flattery, Salienus Clemens
denounced Junius Gallio, who was terror-stricken at his brother Seneca's
death was pleading for his life. He called him an enemy and traitor to
the State, till the unanimous voice of the senators deterred him from perverting
public miseries into an occasion for a personal resentment, and thus importing
fresh bitterness into what by the prince's clemency had been hushed up
or forgotten. 
[15.74] Then offerings and thanksgivings
to the gods were decreed, with special honours to the Sun, who has an ancient
temple in the circus where the crime was planned, as having revealed by
his power the secrets of the conspiracy. The games too of Ceres in the
circus were to be celebrated with more horse-races, and the month of April
was to be called after the name of Nero. A temple also was to be erected
to Safety, on the spot whence Scaevinus had taken his dagger. The emperor
himself dedicated the weapon in the temple of the capital, and inscribed
on it, "To Jupiter the Avenger." This passed without notice at
the moment, but after the war of Julius Vindex it was construed as an omen
and presage of impending vengeance. I find in the registers of the Senate
that Cerialis Anicius, consul-elect, proposed a motion that a temple should
as soon as possible be built at the public expense to the Divine Nero.
He implied indeed by this proposal that the prince had transcended all
mortal grandeur and deserved the adoration of mankind. Some however interpreted
it as an omen of his death, seeing that divine honours are not paid to
an emperor till he has ceased to live among men. 
Book 16 - (A.D. 65-66)
[16.1] FORTUNE soon afterwards made
a dupe of Nero through his own credulity and the promises of Caesellius
Bassus, a Carthaginian by birth and a man of a crazed imagination, who
wrested a vision seen in the slumber of night into a confident expectation.
He sailed to Rome, and having purchased admission to the emperor, he explained
how he had discovered on his land a cave of immense depth, which contained
a vast quantity of gold, not in the form of coin, but in the shapeless
and ponderous masses of ancient days. In fact, he said, ingots of great
weight lay there, with bars standing near them in another part of the cave,
a treasure hidden for so many ages to increase the wealth of the present.
Phoenician Dido, as he sought to show by inference, after fleeing from
Tyre and founding Carthage, had concealed these riches in the fear that
a new people might be demoralised by a superabundance of money, or that
the Numidian kings, already for other reasons hostile, might by lust of
gold be provoked to war. 
[16.2] Nero upon this, without sufficiently
examining the credibility of the author of the story, or of the matter
itself, or sending persons through whom he might ascertain whether the
intelligence was true, himself actually encouraged the report and despatched
men to bring the spoil, as if it were already acquired. They had triremes
assigned them and crews specially selected to promote speed. Nothing else
at the time was the subject of the credulous gossip of the people, and
of the very different conversation of thinking persons. It happened, too,
that the quinquennial games were being celebrated for the second time,
and the orators took from this same incident their chief materials for
eulogies on the emperor. "Not only," they said, "were there
the usual harvests, and the gold of the mine with its alloy, but the earth
now teemed with a new abundance, and wealth was thrust on them by the bounty
of the gods." These and other servile flatteries they invented, with
consummate eloquence and equal sycophancy, confidently counting on the
facility of his belief. 
[16.3] Extravagance meanwhile increased,
on the strength of a chimerical hope, and ancient wealth was wasted, as
apparently the emperor had lighted on treasures he might squander for many
a year. He even gave away profusely from this source, and the expectation
of riches was one of the causes of the poverty of the State. Bassus indeed
dug up his land and extensive plains in the neighbourhood, while he persisted
that this or that was the place of the promised cave, and was followed
not only by our soldiers but by the rustic population who were engaged
to execute the work, till at last he threw off his infatuation, and expressing
wonder that his dreams had never before been false, and that now for the
first time he had been deluded, he escaped disgrace and danger by a voluntary
death. Some have said that he was imprisoned and soon released, his property
having been taken from him as a substitute for the royal treasure. 
[16.4] Meanwhile the Senate, as they
were now on the eve of the quinquennial contest, wishing to avert scandal,
offered the emperor the "victory in song," and added the "crown
of eloquence," that thus a veil might be thrown over a shameful exposure
on the stage. Nero, however, repeatedly declared that he wanted neither
favour nor the Senate's influence, as he was a match for his rivals, and
was certain, in the conscientious opinion of the judges, to win the honour
by merit. First, he recited a poem on the stage; then, at the importunate
request of the rabble that he would make public property of all his accomplishments
(these were their words), he entered the theatre, and conformed to all
the laws of harp-playing, not sitting down when tired, nor wiping off the
perspiration with anything but the garment he wore, or letting himself
be seen to spit or clear his nostrils. Last of all, on bended knee he saluted
the assembly with a motion of the hand, and awaited the verdict of the
judges with pretended anxiety. And then the city-populace, who were wont
to encourage every gesture even of actors, made the place ring with measured
strains of elaborate applause. One would have thought they were rejoicing,
and perhaps they did rejoice, in their indifference to the public disgrace.

[16.5] All, however, who were present
from remote towns, and still retained the Italy of strict morals and primitive
ways; all too who had come on embassies or on private business from distant
provinces, where they had been unused to such wantonness, were unable to
endure the spectacle or sustain the degrading fatigue, which wearied their
unpractised hands, while they disturbed those who knew their part, and
were often struck by soldiers, stationed in the seats, to see that not
a moment of time passed with less vigorous applause or in the silence of
indifference. It was a known fact that several knights, in struggling through
the narrow approaches and the pressure of the crowd, were trampled to death,
and that others while keeping their seats day and night were seized with
some fatal malady. For it was a still worse danger to be absent from the
show, as many openly and many more secretly made it their business to scrutinize
names and faces, and to note the delight or the disgust of the company.
Hence came cruel severities, immediately exercised on the humble, and resentments,
concealed for the moment, but subsequently paid off, towards men of distinction.
There was a story that Vespasian was insulted by Phoebus, a freedman, for
closing his eyes in a doze, and that having with difficulty been screened
by the intercessions of the well disposed, he escaped imminent destruction
through his grander destiny. 
[16.6] After the conclusion of the
games Poppaea died from a casual outburst of rage in her husband, who felled
her with a kick when she was pregnant. That there was poison I cannot believe,
though some writers so relate, from hatred rather than from belief, for
the emperor was desirous of children, and wholly swayed by love of his
wife. Her body was not consumed by fire according to Roman usage, but after
the custom of foreign princes was filled with fragrant spices and embalmed,
and then consigned to the sepulchre of the Julii. She had, however, a public
funeral, and Nero himself from the rostra eulogized her beauty, her lot
in having been the mother of a deified child, and fortune's other gifts,
as though they were virtues. 
[16.7] To the death of Poppaea, which,
though a public grief, was a delight to those who recalling the past thought
of her shamelessness and cruelty, Nero added fresh and greater odium by
forbidding Caius Cassius to attend the funeral. This was the first token
of mischief. Nor was it long delayed. Silanus was coupled with Cassius,
no crime being alleged, but that Cassius was eminent for his ancestral
wealth and dignity of character, Silanus for the nobility of his birth
and the quiet demeanour of his youth. The emperor accordingly sent the
Senate a speech in which he argued that both ought to be removed from the
State, and made it a reproach against Cassius that among his ancestors'
busts he had specially revered that of Caius Cassius, which bore the inscription
"to the Party-Leader." In fact, he had thereby sought to sow
the seeds of civil war and revolt from the House of the Caesars. And that
he might not merely avail himself of the memory of a hated name to stir
up strife, he had associated with him Lucius Silanus, a youth of noble
birth and reckless spirit, to whom he might point as an instrument of revolution.

[16.8] Nero next denounced Silanus
himself in the same terms as he had his uncle Torquatus, implying that
he was already arranging the details of imperial business, and setting
freedmen to manage his accounts, papers, and correspondence, imputations
utterly groundless and false. Silanus, in truth, was intensely apprehensive,
and had been frightened into caution by his uncle's destruction. Nero then
procured persons, under the name of informers, to invent against Lepida,
the wife of Cassius and aunt of Silanus, a charge of incest with her brother's
son, and of some ghastly religious ceremonial. Volcatius Tullinus, and
Marcellus Cornelius, senators, and Fabatus, a Roman knight, were drawn
in as accomplices. By an appeal to the emperor these men eluded an impending
doom and subsequently, as being too insignificant, escaped from Nero, who
was busy with crimes on a far greater scale. 
[16.9] The Senate was then consulted
and sentences of exile were passed on Cassius and Silanus. As to Lepida,
the emperor was to decide. Cassius was transported to the island of Sardinia,
and he was quietly left to old age. Silanus was removed to Ostia, whence,
it was pretended, he was to be conveyed to Naxos. He was afterwards confined
in a town of Apulia named Barium. There, as he was wisely enduring a most
undeserved calamity, he was suddenly seized by a centurion sent to slay
him. When the man advised him to sever his veins, he replied that, though
he had resolved in his heart to die, he would not let a cutthroat have
the glory of the service. The centurion seeing that, unarmed as he was,
he was very powerful, and more an enraged than a frightened man, ordered
his soldiers to overpower him. And Silanus failed not to resist and to
strike blows, as well as he could with his bare hands, till he was cut
down by the centurion, as though in battle, with wounds in his breast.

[16.10] With equal courage Lucius
Vetus, his mother-in-law Sextia, and his daughter Pollutia submitted to
death. They were hated by the emperor because they seemed a living reproach
to him for the murder of Rubellius Plautus, son-in-law of Lucius Vetus.
But the first opportunity of unmasking his savage wrath was furnished by
Fortunatus, a freedman, who having embezzled his patron's property, deserted
him to become his accuser. He had as his accomplice Claudius Demianus,
whom Vetus, when proconsul of Asia, had imprisoned for his gross misdeeds,
and whom Nero now released as a recompense for the accusation. When the
accused knew this and saw that he and his freedman were pitted against
each other on an equal footing, he retired to his estate at Formiae. There
he was put under the secret surveillance of soldiers. With him was his
daughter, who, to say nothing of the now imminent peril, had all the fury
of a long grief ever since she had seen the murderers of her husband Plautus.
She had clasped his bleeding neck, and still kept by her the blood-stained
apparel, clinging in her widowhood to perpetual sorrow, and using only
such nourishment as might suffice to avert starvation. Then at her father's
bidding she went to Neapolis. And as she was forbidden to approach Nero,
she would haunt his doors; and implore him to hear an innocent man, and
not surrender to a freedman one who had once been his colleague in the
consulship, now pleading with the cries of a woman, now again forgetting
her sex and lifting up her voice in a tone of menace, till the emperor
showed himself unmoved alike by entreaty and reproach. 
[16.11] She therefore told her father
by message that she cast hope aside and yielded to necessity. He was at
the same time informed that judicial proceedings in the Senate and a dreadful
sentence were hanging over him. Some there were who advised him to name
the emperor as his chief heir, and so secure the remainder for his grandchildren.
But he spurned the notion, and unwilling to disgrace a life which had clung
to freedom by a final act of servility, he bestowed on his slaves all his
ready money, and ordered each to convey away for himself whatever he could
carry, leaving only three couches for the last scene. Then in the same
chamber, with the same weapon, they sundered their veins, and speedily
hurried into a bath, covered each, as delicacy required, with a single
garment, the father gazing intently on his daughter, the grandmother on
her grandchild, she again on both, while with rival earnestness they prayed
that the ebbing life might have a quick departure, each wishing to leave
a relative still surviving, but just on the verge of death. Fortune preserved
the due order; the oldest died first, then the others according to priority
of age. They were prosecuted after their burial, and the sentence was that
"they should be punished in ancient fashion." Nero interposed
his veto, allowing them to die without his interference. Such were the
mockeries added to murders already perpetrated. 
[16.12] Publius Gallus, a Roman knight,
was outlawed for having been intimate with Faenius Rufus and somewhat acquainted
with Vetus. To the freedman who was the accuser, was given, as a reward
for his service, a seat in the theatre among the tribune's officers. The
month too following April, or Neroneus, was changed from Maius into the
name of Claudius, and Junius into that of Germanicus, Cornelius Orfitus,
the proposer of the motion, publicly declaring that the month Junius had
been passed over because the execution of the two Torquati for their crimes
had now rendered its name inauspicious. 
[16.13] A year of shame and of so
many evil deeds heaven also marked by storms and pestilence. Campania was
devastated by a hurricane, which destroyed everywhere countryhouses, plantations
and crops, and carried its fury to the neighbourhood of Rome, where a terrible
plague was sweeping away all classes of human beings without any such derangement
of the atmosphere as to be visibly apparent. Yet the houses were filled
with lifeless forms and the streets with funerals. Neither age nor sex
was exempt from peril. Slaves and the free-born populace alike were suddenly
cut off, amid the wailings of wives and children, who were often consumed
on the very funeral pile of their friends by whom they had been sitting
and shedding tears. Knights and senators perished indiscriminately, and
yet their deaths were less deplored because they seemed to forestal the
emperor's cruelty by an ordinary death. That same year levies of troops
were held in Narbon Gaul, Africa and Asia, to fill up the legions of Illyricum,
all soldiers in which, worn out by age or ill-health, were receiving their
discharge. Lugdunum was consoled by the prince for a ruinous disaster by
a gift of four million sesterces, so that what was lost to the city might
be replaced. Its people had previously offered this same amount for the
distresses of Rome. 
[16.14] In the consulship of Caius
Suetonius and Lucius Telesinus, Antistius Sosianus, who, as I have stated,
had been punished with exile for repeated satires on Nero, having heard
that there was such honour for informers and that the emperor was so partial
to bloodshed, being himself too of a restless temper and quick to seize
opportunities, made a friend of a man in like condition with himself, one
Pammenes, an exile in the same place, noted for his skill as an astrologer,
and consequently bound to many in close intimacy. He thought there must
be a meaning in the frequent messages and the consultations, and he learnt
at the same time that an annual payment was furnished him by Publius Anteius.
He knew too that Anteius was hated by Nero for his love of Agrippina, and
that his wealth was sufficiently conspicuous to provoke cupidity, and that
this was the cause of the destruction of many. Accordingly he intercepted
a letter from Anteius, and having also stolen some notes about the day
of his nativity and his future career, which were hidden away among Pammenes'
secret papers, and having further discovered some remarks on the birth
and life of Ostorius Scapula, he wrote to the emperor that he would communicate
important news which would contribute to his safety, if he could but obtain
a brief reprieve of his exile. Anteius and Ostorius were, he hinted, grasping
at empire and prying into the destinies of themselves and of the prince.
Some swift galleys were then despatched and Sosianus speedily arrived.
On the disclosure of his information, Anteius and Ostorius were classed
with condemned criminals rather than with men on their trial, so completely,
indeed, that no one would attest the will of Anteius, till Tigellinus interposed
to sanction it. Anteius had been previously advised by him not to delay
this final document. Then he drank poison, but disgusted at its slowness,
he hastened death by severing his veins. 
[16.15] Ostorius was living at the
time on a remote estate on the Ligurian frontier. Thither a centurion was
despatched to hurry on his destruction. There was a motive for promptitude
arising out of the fact that Ostorius, with his great military fame and
the civic crown he had won in Britain, possessed, too, as he was of huge
bodily strength and skill in arms, had made Nero, who was always timid
and now more frightened than ever by the lately discovered conspiracy,
fearful of a sudden attack. So the centurion, having barred every exit
from the house, disclosed the emperor's orders to Ostorius. That fortitude
which he had often shown in fighting the enemy Ostorius now turned against
himself. And as his veins, though severed, allowed but a scanty flow of
blood, he used the help of a slave, simply to hold up a dagger firmly,
and then pressing the man's hand towards him, he met the point with his
throat. 
[16.16] Even if I had to relate foreign
wars and deaths encountered in the service of the State with such a monotony
of disaster, I should myself have been overcome by disgust, while I should
look for weariness in my readers, sickened as they would be by the melancholy
and continuous destruction of our citizens, however glorious to themselves.
But now a servile submissiveness and so much wanton bloodshed at home fatigue
the mind and paralyze it with grief. The only indulgence I would ask from
those who will acquaint themselves with these horrors is that I be not
thought to hate men who perished so tamely. Such was the wrath of heaven
against the Roman State that one may not pass over it with a single mention,
as one might the defeat of armies and the capture of cities. Let us grant
this privilege to the posterity of illustrious men, that just as in their
funeral obsequies such men are not confounded in a common burial, so in
the record of their end they may receive and retain a special memorial.

[16.17] Within a few days, in quick
succession, Annaeus Mela, Cerialis Anicius, Rufius Crispinus, and Petronius
fell, Mela and Crispinus being Roman knights with senatorian rank. The
latter had once commanded the praetorians and had been rewarded with the
decorations of the consulate. He had lately been banished to Sardinia on
a charge of conspiracy, and on receiving a message that he was doomed to
die had destroyed himself. Mela, son of the same parents as Gallio and
Seneca, had refrained from seeking promotion out of a perverse vanity which
wished to raise a Roman knight to an equality with ex-consuls. He also
thought that there was a shorter road to the acquisition of wealth through
offices connected with the administration of the emperor's private business.
He had too in his son Annaeus Lucanus a powerful aid in rising to distinction.
After the death of Lucanus, he rigorously called in the debts due to his
estate, and thereby provoked an accuser in the person of Fabius Romanus,
one of the intimate friends of Lucanus. A story was invented that the father
and son shared between them a knowledge of the conspiracy, and a letter
was forged in Lucanus's name. This Nero examined, and ordered it to be
conveyed to Mela, whose wealth he ravenously desired. Mela meanwhile, adopting
the easiest mode of death then in fashion, opened his veins, after adding
a codicil to his will bequeathing an immense amount to Tigellinus and his
son-in-law, Cossutianus Capito, in order to save the remainder. In this
codicil he is also said to have written, by way of remonstrance against
the injustice of his death, that he died without any cause for punishment,
while Rufius Crispinus and Anicius Cerialis still enjoyed life, though
bitter foes to the prince. It was thought that he had invented this about
Crispinus, because the man had been already murdered; about Cerialis, with
the object of procuring his murder. Soon afterwards Cerialis laid violent
hands on himself, and received less pity than the others, because men remembered
that he had betrayed a conspiracy to Caius Caesar. 
[16.18] With regard to Caius Petronius,
I ought to dwell a little on his antecedents. His days he passed in sleep,
his nights in the business and pleasures of life. Indolence had raised
him to fame, as energy raises others, and he was reckoned not a debauchee
and spendthrift, like most of those who squander their substance, but a
man of refined luxury. And indeed his talk and his doings, the freer they
were and the more show of carelessness they exhibited, were the better
liked, for their look of natural simplicity. Yet as proconsul of Bithynia
and soon afterwards as consul, he showed himself a man of vigour and equal
to business. Then falling back into vice or affecting vice, he was chosen
by Nero to be one of his few intimate associates, as a critic in matters
of taste, while the emperor thought nothing charming or elegant in luxury
unless Petronius had expressed to him his approval of it. Hence jealousy
on the part of Tigellinus, who looked on him as a rival and even his superior
in the science of pleasure. And so he worked on the prince's cruelty, which
dominated every other passion, charging Petronius with having been the
friend of Scaevinus, bribing a slave to become informer, robbing him of
the means of defence, and hurrying into prison the greater part of his
domestics. 
[16.19] It happened at the time that
the emperor was on his way Campania and that Petronius, after going as
far as Cumae, was there detained. He bore no longer the suspense of fear
or of hope. Yet he did not fling away life with precipitate haste, but
having made an incision in his veins and then, according to his humour,
bound them up, he again opened them, while he conversed with his friends,
not in a serious strain or on topics that might win for him the glory of
courage. And he listened to them as they repeated, not thoughts on the
immortality of the soul or on the theories of philosophers, but light poetry
and playful verses. To some of his slaves he gave liberal presents, a flogging
to others. He dined, indulged himself in sleep, that death, though forced
on him, might have a natural appearance. Even in his will he did not, as
did many in their last moments, flatter Nero or Tigellinus or any other
of the men in power. On the contrary, he described fully the prince's shameful
excesses, with the names of his male and female companions and their novelties
in debauchery, and sent the account under seal to Nero. Then he broke his
signet-ring, that it might not be subsequently available for imperilling
others. 
[16.20] When Nero was in doubt how
the ingenious varieties of his nightly revels became notorious, Silia came
into his mind, who, as a senator's wife, was a conspicuous person, and
who had been his chosen associate in all his profligacy and was very intimate
with Petronius. She was banished for not having, as was suspected, kept
secret what she had seen and endured, a sacrifice to his personal resentment.
Minucius Thermus, an ex-praetor, he surrendered to the hate of Tigellinus,
because a freedman of Thermus had brought criminal charges against Tigellinus,
such that the man had to atone for them himself by the torture of the rack,
his patron by an undeserved death. 
[16.21] Nero after having butchered
so many illustrious men, at last aspired to extirpate virtue itself by
murdering Thrasea Paetus and Barea Soranus. Both men he had hated of old,
Thrasea on additional grounds, because he had walked out of the Senate
when Agrippina's case was under discussion, as I have already related,
and had not given the Juvenile games any conspicuous encouragement. Nero's
displeasure at this was the deeper, since this same Thrasea had sung in
a tragedian's dress at Patavium, his birth-place, in some games instituted
by the Trojan Antenor. On the day, too, on which the praetor Antistius
was being sentenced to death for libels on Nero, Thrasea proposed and carried
a more merciful decision. Again, when divine honours were decreed to Poppaea,
he was purposely absent and did not attend her funeral. All this Capito
Cossutianus would not allow to be forgotten. He had a heart eager for the
worst wickedness, and he also bore ill-will to Thrasea, the weight of whose
influence had crushed him, while envoys from Cilicia, supported by Thrasea's
advocacy, were accusing him of extortion. 
[16.22] He alleged, too, against
him the following charges:- "Thrasea," he said, "at the
beginning of the year always avoided the usual oath of allegiance; he was
not present at the recital of the public prayers, though he had been promoted
to the priesthood of the Fifteen; he had never offered a sacrifice for
the safety of the prince or for his heavenly voice. Though formerly he
had been assiduous and unwearied in showing himself a supporter or an opponent
even of the most ordinary motions of senators, he had not entered the Senate-house
for three years, and very lately, when all were rushing thither with rival
eagerness to put down Silanus and Vetus, he had attended by preference
to the private business of his clients. This was political schism, and,
should many dare to do the like, it was actual war." Capito further
added, "The country in its eagerness for discord is now talking of
you, Nero, and of Thrasea, as it talked once of Caius Caesar and Marcus
Cato. Thrasea has his followers or rather his satellites, who copy, not
indeed as yet the audacious tone of his sentiments, but only his manners
and his looks, a sour and gloomy set, bent on making your mirthfulness
a reproach to you. He is the only man who cares not for your safety, honours
not your accomplishments. The prince's prosperity he despises. Can it be
that he is not satisfied with your sorrows and griefs? It shows the same
spirit not to believe in Poppaea's divinity as to refuse to swear obedience
to the acts of the Divine Augustus and the Divine Julius. He contemns religious
rites; he annuls laws. The daily records of the Roman people are read attentively
in the provinces and the armies that they may know what Thrasea has not
done. "Either let us go over to his system, if it is better than ours,
or let those who desire change have their leader and adviser taken from
them. That sect of his gave birth to the Tuberones and Favonii, names hateful
even to the old republic. They make a show of freedom, to overturn the
empire; should they destroy it, they will attack freedom itself. In vain
have you banished Cassius, if you are going to allow rivals of the Bruti
to multiply and flourish. Finally, write nothing yourself about Thrasea;
leave the Senate to decide for us." Nero further stimulated the eager
wrath of Cossutianus, and associated with him the pungent eloquence of
Marcellus Eprius. 
[16.23] As for the impeachment of
Barea Soranus, Ostorius Sabinus, a Roman knight, had already claimed it
for himself. It arose out of his proconsulate of Asia, where he increased
the prince's animosity by his uprightness and diligence, as well as by
having bestowed pains on opening the port of Ephesus and passed over without
punishment the violence of the citizens of Pergamos in their efforts to
hinder Acratus, one of the emperor's freedmen, from carrying off statues
and pictures. But the crime imputed to him was friendship with Plautus
and intrigues to lure the province into thoughts of revolt. The time chosen
for the fatal sentence was that at which Tiridates was on his way to receive
the sovereignty of Armenia, so that crime at home might be partially veiled
amid rumours on foreign affairs, or that Nero might display his imperial
grandeur by the murder of illustrious men, as though it were a kingly exploit.

[16.24] Accordingly when all Rome
rushed out to welcome the emperor and see the king, Thrasea, though forbidden
to appear, did not let his spirit be cast down, but wrote a note to Nero,
in which he demanded to know the charges against him, and asserted that
he would clear himself, if he were informed of the crimes alleged and had
an opportunity of refuting them. This note Nero received with eagerness,
in the hope that Thrasea in dismay had written something to enhance the
emperor's glory and to tarnish his own honour. When it turned out otherwise,
and he himself, on the contrary, dreaded the glance and the defiant independence
of the guiltless man, he ordered the Senate to be summoned. 
[16.25] Thrasea then consulted his
most intimate friends whether he should attempt or spurn defence. Conflicting
advice was offered. Those who thought it best for him to enter the Senate
house said that they counted confidently on his courage, and were sure
that he would say nothing but what would heighten his renown. "It
was for the feeble and timid to invest their last moments with secrecy.
Let the people behold a man who could meet death. Let the Senate hear words,
almost of divine inspiration, more than human. It was possible that the
very miracle might impress even a Nero. But should he persist in his cruelty,
posterity would at least distinguish between the memory of an honourable
death and the cowardice of those who perished in silence." 
[16.26] Those, on the other hand,
who thought that he ought to wait at home, though their opinion of him
was the same, hinted that mockeries and insults were in store for him.
"Spare your ears" they said, "taunts and revilings. Not
only are Cossutianus and Eprius eagerly bent on crime; there are numbers
more, daring enough, perchance, to raise the hand of violence in their
brutality. Even good men through fear do the like. Better save the Senate
which you have adorned to the last the infamy of such an outrage, and leave
it a matter of doubt what the senators would have decided, had they seen
Thrasea on his trial. It is with a vain hope we are aiming to touch Nero
with shame for his abominations, and we have far more cause to fear that
he will vent his fury on your wife, your household, on all others dear
to you. And therefore, while you are yet stainless and undisgraced, seek
to close life with the glory of those in whose track and pursuits you have
passed it." Present at this deliberation was Rusticus Arulenus, an
enthusiastic youth, who, in his ardour for renown, offered, as he was tribune
of the people, to protest against the sentence of the Senate. Thrasea checked
his impetuous temper, not wishing him to attempt what would be as futile,
and useless to the accused, as it would be fatal to the protester. "My
days," he said, "are ended, and I must not now abandon a scheme
of life in which for so many years I have persevered. You are at the beginning
of a career of office, and your future is yet clear. Weigh thoroughly with
yourself beforehand, at such a crisis as this, the path of political life
on which you enter." He then reserved for his own consideration the
question whether it became him to enter the Senate. 
[16.27] Next day, however, two praetorian
cohorts under arms occupied the temple of Venus Genetrix. A group of ordinary
citizens with swords which they did not conceal, had blocked the approach
to the Senate. Through the squares and colonnades were scattered bodies
of soldiers, amid whose looks of menace the senators entered their house.
A speech from the emperor was read by his quaestor. Without addressing
any one by name, he censured the senators for neglecting their public duties,
and drawing by their example the Roman knights into idleness. "For
what wonder is it," he asked, "that men do not come from remote
provinces when many, after obtaining the consulate or some sacred office,
give all their thoughts by choice to the beauty of their gardens?"
Here was, so to say, a weapon for the accusers, on which they fastened.

[16.28] Cossutianus made a beginning,
and then Marcellus in more violent tones exclaimed that the whole commonwealth
was at stake. "It is," he said, "the stubbornness of inferiors
which lessens the clemency of our ruler. We senators have hitherto been
too lenient in allowing him to be mocked with impunity by Thrasea throwing
off allegiance, by his son-in-law Helvidius Priscus indulging similar frenzies,
by Paconius Agrippinus, the inheritor of his father's hatred towards emperors,
and by Curtius Montanus, the habitual composer of abominable verses. I
miss the presence of an ex-consul in the Senate, of a priest when we offer
our vows, of a citizen when we swear obedience, unless indeed, in defiance
of the manners and rites of our ancestors, Thrasea has openly assumed the
part of a traitor and an enemy. In a word, let the man, wont to act the
senator and to screen those who disparage the prince, come among us; let
him propose any reform or change he may desire. We shall more readily endure
his censure of details than we can now bear the silence by which he condemns
everything. Is it the peace throughout the world or victories won without
loss to our armies which vex him? A man who grieves at the country's prosperity,
who treats our public places, theatres and temples as if they were a desert,
and who is ever threatening us with exile, let us not enable such an one
to gratify his perverse vanity. To him the decrees of this house, the offices
of State, the city of Rome seem as nothing. Let him sever his life from
a country all love for which he has long lost and the very sight of which
he has now put from him." 
[16.29] While Marcellus, with the
savage and menacing look he usually wore, spoke these and like words with
rising fury in his voice, countenance, and eye, that familiar grief to
which a thick succession of perils had habituated the Senate gave way to
a new and profounder panic, as they saw the soldiers' hands on their weapons.
At the same moment the venerable form of Thrasea rose before their imagination,
and some there were who pitied Helvidius too, doomed as he was to suffer
for an innocent alliance. "What again," they asked, "was
the charge against Agrippinus except his father's sad fate, since he too,
though guiltless as his son, fell beneath the cruelty of Tiberius? As for
Montanus, a youth without a blemish, author of no libellous poem, he was
positively driven out an exile because he had exhibited genius." 
[16.30] And meanwhile Ostorius Sabinus,
the accuser of Soranus, entered, and began by speaking of his friendship
with Rubellius Plautus and of his proconsulate in Asia which he had, he
said, adapted to his own glory rather than to the public welfare, by fostering
seditious movements in the various states. These were bygones, but there
was a fresh charge involving the daughter in the peril of the father, to
the effect that she had lavished money on astrologers. This indeed had
really occurred through the filial affection of Servilia (that was the
girl's name), who, out of love for her father and the thoughtlessness of
youth, had consulted them, only however about the safety of her family,
whether Nero could be appeased, and the trial before the Senate have no
dreadful result. She was accordingly summoned before the Senate, and there
they stood facing one another before the consuls' tribunal, the aged parent,
and opposite to him the daughter, in the twentieth year of her age, widowed
and forlorn, her husband Annius Pollio having lately been driven into banishment,
without so much as a glance at her father, whose peril she seemed to have
aggravated. 
[16.31] Then on the accuser asking
her whether she had sold her bridal presents or stript her neck of its
ornaments to raise money for the performance of magical rites, she at first
flung herself on the ground and wept long in silence. After awhile, clasping
the altar steps and altar, she exclaimed, "I have invoked no impious
deities, no enchantments, nor aught else in my unhappy prayers, but only
that thou, Caesar, and you, senators, might preserve unharmed this best
of fathers. My jewels, my apparel, and the signs of my rank I gave up,
as I would have given up my life-blood had they demanded it. They must
have seen this, those men before unknown to me, both as to the name they
bear and the arts they practise. No mention was made by me of the emperor,
except as one of the divinities. But my most unhappy father knows nothing,
and, if it is a crime, I alone am guilty." 
[16.32] While she was yet speaking,
Soranus caught up her words, and exclaimed that she had not gone with him
into the province; that, from her youth, she could not have been known
to Plautus, and that she was not involved in the charges against her husband.
"Treat separately," he said, "the case of one who is guilty
only of an exaggerated filial piety, and as for myself, let me undergo
any fate." He was rushing, as he spoke, into the embraces of his daughter
who hurried towards him, but the lictors interposed and stopped them both.
Place was then given to the witnesses, and the appearance among them of
Publius Egnatius provoked as much indignation as the cruelty of the prosecution
had excited pity. A client of Soranus, and now hired to ruin his friend,
he professed the dignified character of a Stoic, and had trained himself
in demeanour and language to exhibit an ideal of virtue. In his heart,
however, treacherous and cunning, he concealed greed and sensuality. As
soon as money had brought these vices to light, he became an example, warning
us to beware just as much of those who under the guise of virtuous tastes
are false and deceitful in friendship, as of men wholly entangled in falsehoods
and stained with every infamy. 
[16.33] That same day brought with
it a noble pattern in Cassius Asclepiodotus, whose vast wealth made him
a foremost man in Bithynia. He had honoured Soranus in his prosperity with
a respect which he did not cast off in his fall, and he was now stript
of all his property and driven into exile; so impartially indifferent is
heaven to examples of virtue and vice. Thrasea, Soranus, and Servilia were
allowed the choice of death. Helvidius and Paconius were banished from
Italy. Montanus was spared to his father's intercessions on the understanding
that he was not to be admitted to political life. The prosecutors, Eprius
and Cossutianus, received each five million sesterces, Ostorius twelve
hundred thousand, with the decorations of the quaestorship. 
[16.34] Then, as evening approached,
the consul's quaestor was sent to Thrasea, who was passing his time in
his garden. He had had a crowded gathering of distinguished men and women,
giving special attention to Demetrius, a professor of the Cynic philosophy.
With him, as might be inferred from his earnest expression of face and
from words heard when they raised their voices, he was speculating on the
nature of the soul and on the separation of the spirit from the body, till
Domitius Caecilianus, one of his intimate friends, came to him and told
him in detail what the Senate had decided. When all who were present, wept
and bitterly complained, Thrasea urged them to hasten their departure and
not mingle their own perils with the fate of a doomed man. Arria, too,
who aspired to follow her husband's end and the example of Arria, her mother,
he counselled to preserve her life, and not rob the daughter of their love
of her only stay. 
[16.35] Then he went out into a colonnade,
where he was found by the quaestor, joyful rather than otherwise, as he
had learnt that Helvidius, his son-in-law, was merely excluded from Italy.
When he heard the Senate's decision, he led Helvidius and Demetrius into
a chamber, and having laid bare the arteries of each arm, he let the blood
flow freely, and, as he sprinkled it on the ground, he called the quaestor
to his side and said, "We pour out a libation to Jupiter the Deliverer.
Behold, young man, and may the gods avert the omen, but you have been born
into times in which it is well to fortify the spirit with examples of courage."
Then as the slowness of his end brought with it grievous anguish, turning
his eyes on Demetrius
[At this point the Annals are broken off. Much remained to be told about
the last two years of Nero's reign.] 
