
Apocryphon of John











Translated by Frederik Wisse


      The teaching of the savior, and the revelation of the mysteries and the things hidden in

      silence, even these things which he taught John, his disciple. 
And it happened one day, when John, the brother of James - who are the sons of Zebedee

      - had come up to the temple, that a Pharisee named Arimanius approached him and said to

      him, "Where is your master whom you followed?" And he said to him, "He has

      gone to the place from which he came." The Pharisee said to him, "With deception

      did this Nazarene deceive you (pl.), and he filled your ears with lies, and closed your

      hearts (and) turned you from the traditions of your fathers." 
When I, John, heard these things I turned away from the temple to a desert place. And I

      grieved greatly in my heart, saying, "How then was the savior appointed, and why was

      he sent into the world by his Father, and who is his Father who sent him, and of what sort

      is that aeon to which we shall go? For what did he mean when he said to us, 'This aeon to

      which you will go is of the type of the imperishable aeon, but he did not teach us

      concerning the latter, of what sort it is." 
Straightway, while I was contemplating these things, behold, the heavens opened and the

      whole creation which is below heaven shone, and the world was shaken. I was afraid, and

      behold I saw in the light a youth who stood by me. While I looked at him, he became like

      an old man. And he changed his likeness (again), becoming like a servant. There was not a

      plurality before me, but there was a likeness with multiple forms in the light, and the

      likenesses appeared through each other, and the likeness had three forms. 
He said to me, "John, John, why do you doubt, or why are you afraid? You are not

      unfamiliar with this image, are you? - that is, do not be timid! - I am the one who is

      with you (pl.) always. I am the Father, I am the Mother, I am the Son. I am the undefiled

      and incorruptible one. Now I have come to teach you what is and what was and what will

      come to pass, that you may know the things which are not revealed and those which are

      revealed, and to teach you concerning the unwavering race of the perfect Man. Now,

      therefore, lift up your face, that you may receive the things that I shall teach you

      today, and may tell them to your fellow spirits who are from the unwavering race of the

      perfect Man." 
And I asked to know it, and he said to me, "The Monad is a monarchy with nothing

      above it. It is he who exists as God and Father of everything, the invisible One who is

      above everything, who exists as incorruption, which is in the pure light into which no eye

      can look. 
"He is the invisible Spirit, of whom it is not right to think of him as a god, or

      something similar. For he is more than a god, since there is nothing above him, for no one

      lords it over him. For he does not exist in something inferior to him, since everything

      exists in him. For it is he who establishes himself. He is eternal, since he does not need

      anything. For he is total perfection. He did not lack anything, that he might be completed

      by it; rather he is always completely perfect in light. He is illimitable, since there is

      no one prior to him to set limits to him. He is unsearchable, since there exists no one

      prior to him to examine him. He is immeasurable, since there was no one prior to him to

      measure him. He is invisible, since no one saw him. He is eternal, since he exists

      eternally. He is ineffable, since no one was able to comprehend him to speak about him. He

      is unnameable, since there is no one prior to him to give him a name. 
"He is immeasurable light, which is pure, holy (and) immaculate. He is ineffable,

      being perfect in incorruptibility. (He is) not in perfection, nor in blessedness, nor in

      divinity, but he is far superior. He is not corporeal nor is he incorporeal. He is neither

      large nor is he small. There is no way to say, 'What is his quantity?' or, 'What is his

      quality?', for no one can know him. He is not someone among (other) beings, rather he is

      far superior. Not that he is (simply) superior, but his essence does not partake in the

      aeons nor in time. For he who partakes in an aeon was prepared beforehand. Time was not

      apportioned to him, since he does not receive anything from another, for it would be

      received on loan. For he who precedes someone does not lack, that he may receive from him.

      For rather, it is the latter that looks expectantly at him in his light. 
"For the perfection is majestic. He is pure, immeasurable mind. He is an

      aeon-giving aeon. He is life-giving life. He is a blessedness-giving blessed one. He is

      knowledge-giving knowledge. He is goodness-giving goodness. He is mercy and

      redemption-giving mercy. He is grace-giving grace, not because he possesses it, but

      because he gives the immeasurable, incomprehensible light. 
"How am I to speak with you about him? His aeon is indestructible, at rest and

      existing in silence, reposing (and) being prior to everything. For he is the head of all

      the aeons, and it is he who gives them strength in his goodness. For we know not the

      ineffable things, and we do not understand what is immeasurable, except for him who came

      forth from him, namely (from) the Father. For it is he who told it to us alone. For it is

      he who looks at himself in his light which surrounds him, namely the spring of the water

      of life. And it is he who gives to all the aeons and in every way, (and) who gazes upon

      his image which he sees in the spring of the Spirit. It is he who puts his desire in his

      water-light which is in the spring of the pure light-water which surrounds him. 
"And his thought performed a deed and she came forth, namely she who had appeared

      before him in the shine of his light. This is the first power which was before all of them

      (and) which came forth from his mind, She is the forethought of the All - her light shines

      like his light - the perfect power which is the image of the invisible, virginal Spirit

      who is perfect. The first power, the glory of Barbelo, the perfect glory in the aeons, the

      glory of the revelation, she glorified the virginal Spirit and it was she who praised him,

      because thanks to him she had come forth. This is the first thought, his image; she became

      the womb of everything, for it is she who is prior to them all, the Mother-Father, the

      first man, the holy Spirit, the thrice-male, the thrice-powerful, the thrice-named

      androgynous one, and the eternal aeon among the invisible ones, and the first to come

      forth. 
"<She> requested from the invisible, virginal Spirit - that is Barbelo - to

      give her foreknowledge. And the Spirit consented. And when he had consented, the

      foreknowledge came forth, and it stood by the forethought; it originates from the thought

      of the invisible, virginal Spirit. It glorified him and his perfect power, Barbelo, for it

      was for her sake that it had come into being. 
"And she requested again to grant her indestructibility, and he consented. When he

      had consented, indestructibility came forth, and it stood by the thought and the

      foreknowledge. It glorified the invisible One and Barbelo, the one for whose sake they had

      come into being. 
"And Barbelo requested to grant her eternal life. And the invisible Spirit

      consented. And when he had consented, eternal life came forth, and they attended and

      glorified the invisible Spirit and Barbelo, the one for whose sake they had come into

      being. 
"And she requested again to grant her truth. And the invisible Spirit consented.

      And when he had consented, truth came forth, and they attended and glorified the

      invisible, excellent Spirit and his Barbelo, the one for whose sake they had come into

      being. 
"This is the pentad of the aeons of the Father, which is the first man, the image

      of the invisible Spirit; it is the forethought, which Barbelo, and the thought, and the

      foreknowledge, and the indestructibility, and the eternal life, and the truth. This is the

      androgynous pentad of the aeons, which is the decad of the aeons, which is the Father. 
"And he looked at Barbelo with the pure light which surrounds the invisible

      Spirit, and (with) his spark, and she conceived from him. He begot a spark of light with a

      light resembling blessedness. But it does not equal his greatness. This was an

      only-begotten child of the Mother-Father which had come forth; it is the only offspring,

      the only-begotten one of the Father, the pure Light. 
"And the invisible, virginal Spirit rejoiced over the light which came forth, that

      which was brought forth first by the first power of his forethought, which is Barbelo. And

      he anointed it with his goodness until it became perfect, not lacking in any goodness,

      because he had anointed it with the goodness of the invisible Spirit. And it attended him

      as he poured upon it. And immediately when it had received from the Spirit, it glorified

      the holy Spirit and the perfect forethought, for whose sake it had come forth. 
"And it requested to give it a fellow worker, which is the mind, and he consented

      gladly. And when the invisible Spirit had consented, the mind came forth, and it attended

      Christ, glorifying him and Barbelo. And all these came into being in silence. 
"And the mind wanted to perform a deed through the word of the invisible Spirit.

      And his will became a deed and it appeared with the mind; and the light glorified it. And

      the word followed the will. For because of the word, Christ the divine Autogenes created

      everything. And the eternal life <and> his will and the mind and the foreknowledge

      attended and glorified the invisible Spirit and Barbelo, for whose sake they had come into

      being. 
"And the holy Spirit completed the divine Autogenes, his son, together with

      Barbelo, that he may attend the mighty and invisible, virginal Spirit as the divine

      Autogenes, the Christ whom he had honored with a mighty voice. He came forth through the

      forethought. And the invisible, virginal Spirit placed the divine Autogenes of truth over

      everything. And he subjected to him every authority, and the truth which is in him, that

      he may know the All which had been called with a name exalted above every name. For that

      name will be mentioned to those who are worthy of it. 
"For from the light, which is the Christ, and the indestructibility, through the

      gift of the Spirit the four lights (appeared) from the divine Autogenes. He expected that

      they might attend him. And the three (are) will, thought, and life. And the four powers

      (are) understanding, grace, perception, and prudence. And grace belongs to the light-aeon

      Armozel, which is the first angel. And there are three other aeons with this aeon: grace,

      truth, and form. And the second light (is) Oriel, who has been placed over the second

      aeon. And there are three other aeons with him: conception, perception, and memory. And

      the third light is Daveithai, who has been placed over the third aeon. And there are three

      other aeons with him: understanding, love, and idea. And the fourth aeon was placed over

      the fourth light Eleleth. And there are three other aeons with him: perfection, peace, and

      wisdom. These are the four lights which attend the divine Autogenes, (and) these are the

      twelve aeons which attend the son of the mighty one, the Autogenes, the Christ, through

      the will and the gift of the invisible Spirit. And the twelve aeons belong to the son of

      the Autogenes. And all things were established by the will of the holy Spirit through the

      Autogenes. 
"And from the foreknowledge of the perfect mind, through the revelation of the

      will of the invisible Spirit and the will of the Autogenes, <the> perfect Man

      (appeared), the first revelation, and the truth. It is he whom the virginal Spirit called

      Pigera-Adamas, and he placed him over the first aeon with the mighty one, the Autogenes,

      the Christ, by the first light Armozel; and with him are his powers. And the invisible one

      gave him a spiritual, invincible power. And he spoke and glorified and praised the

      invisible Spirit, saying, 'It is for thy sake that everything has come into being and

      everything will return to thee. I shall praise and glorify thee and the Autogenes and the

      aeons, the three: the Father, the Mother, and the Son, the perfect power.' 
"And he placed his son Seth over the second aeon in the presence of the second

      light Oriel. And in the third aeon the seed of Seth was placed over the third light

      Daveithai. And the souls of the saints were placed (there). And in the fourth aeon the

      souls were placed of those who do not know the Pleroma and who did not repent at once, but

      who persisted for a while and repented afterwards; they are by the fourth light Eleleth.

      These are creatures which glorify the invisible Spirit. 
"And the Sophia of the Epinoia, being an aeon, conceived a thought from herself

      and the conception of the invisible Spirit and foreknowledge. She wanted to bring forth a

      likeness out of herself without the consent of the Spirit, - he had not approved - and

      without her consort, and without his consideration. And though the person of her maleness

      had not approved, and she had not found her agreement, and she had thought without the

      consent of the Spirit and the knowledge of her agreement, (yet) she brought forth. And

      because of the invincible power which is in her, her thought did not remain idle, and

      something came out of her which was imperfect and different from her appearance, because

      she had created it without her consort. And it was dissimilar to the likeness of its

      mother, for it has another form. 
"And when she saw (the consequences of) her desire, it changed into a form of a

      lion-faced serpent. And its eyes were like lightning fires which flash. She cast it away

      from her, outside that place, that no one of the immortal ones might see it, for she had

      created it in ignorance. And she surrounded it with a luminous cloud, and she placed a

      throne in the middle of the cloud that no one might see it except the holy Spirit who is

      called the mother of the living. And she called his name Yaltabaoth. 
"This is the first archon who took a great power from his mother. And he removed

      himself from her and moved away from the places in which he was born. He became strong and

      created for himself other aeons with a flame of luminous fire which (still) exists now.

      And he joined with his arrogance which is in him and begot authorities for himself. The

      name of the first one is Athoth, whom the generations call the reaper. The second one is

      Harmas, who is the eye of envy. The third one is Kalila-Oumbri. The fourth one is Yabel.

      The fifth one is Adonaiou, who is called Sabaoth. The sixth one is Cain, whom the

      generations of men call the sun. The seventh is Abel. The eighth is Abrisene. The ninth is

      Yobel. The tenth is Armoupieel. The eleventh is Melceir-Adonein. The twelfth is Belias, it

      is he who is over the depth of Hades. And he placed seven kings - each corresponding to

      the firmaments of heaven - over the seven heavens, and five over the depth of the abyss,

      that they may reign. And he shared his fire with them, but he did not send forth from the

      power of the light which he had taken from his mother, for he is ignorant darkness. 
"And when the light had mixed with the darkness, it caused the darkness to shine.

      And when the darkness had mixed with the light, it darkened the light and it became

      neither light nor dark, but it became dim. 
"Now the archon who is weak has three names. The first name is Yaltabaoth, the

      second is Saklas, and the third is Samael. And he is impious in his arrogance which is in

      him. For he said, 'I am God and there is no other God beside me,' for he is ignorant of

      his strength, the place from which he had come. 
"And the archons created seven powers for themselves, and the powers created for

      themselves six angels for each one until they became 365 angels. And these are the bodies

      belonging with the names: the first is Athoth, a he has a sheep's face; the second is

      Eloaiou, he has a donkey's face; the third is Astaphaios, he has a hyena's face; the

      fourth is Yao, he has a serpent's face with seven heads; the fifth is Sabaoth, he has a

      dragon's face; the sixth is Adonin, he had a monkey's face; the seventh is Sabbede, he has

      a shining fire-face. This is the sevenness of the week. 
"But Yaltabaoth had a multitude of faces, more than all of them, so that he could

      put a face before all of them, according to his desire, when he is in the midst of

      seraphs. He shared his fire with them; therefore he became lord over them. Because of the

      power of the glory he possessed of his mother's light, he called himself God. And he did

      not obey the place from which he came. And he united the seven powers in his thought with

      the authorities which were with him. And when he spoke it happened. And he named each

      power beginning with the highest: the first is goodness with the first (authority),

      Athoth; the second is foreknowledge with the second one, Eloaio; and the third is divinity

      with the third one, Astraphaio); the fourth is lordship with the fourth one, Yao; the

      fifth is kingdom with the fifth one, Sabaoth; the sixth is envy with the sixth one,

      Adonein; the seventh is understanding with the seventh one, Sabbateon. And these have a

      firmament corresponding to each aeon-heaven. They were given names according to the glory

      which belongs to heaven for the destruction of the powers. And in the names which were

      given to them by their Originator there was power. But the names which were given them

      according to the glory which belongs to heaven mean for them destruction and

      powerlessness. Thus they have two names. 
"And having created [...] everything, he organized according to the model of the

      first aeons which had come into being, so that he might create them like the

      indestructible ones. Not because he had seen the indestructible ones, but the power in

      him, which he had taken from his mother, produced in him the likeness of the cosmos. And

      when he saw the creation which surrounds him, and the multitude of the angels around him

      which had come forth from him, he said to them, 'I am a jealous God, and there is no other

      God beside me.' But by announcing this he indicated to the angels who attended him that

      there exists another God. For if there were no other one, of whom would he be jealous? 
"Then the mother began to move to and fro. She became aware of the deficiency when

      the brightness of her light diminished. And she became dark because her consort had not

      agreed with her." 
And I said, "Lord, what does it mean that she moved to and fro?" But he

      smiled and said, "Do not think it is, as Moses said, 'above the waters.' No, but when

      she had seen the wickedness which had happened, and the theft which her son had committed,

      she repented. And she was overcome by forgetfulness in the darkness of ignorance and she

      began to be ashamed. And she did not dare to return, but she was moving about. And the

      moving is the going to and fro. 
"And the arrogant one took a power from his mother. For he was ignorant, thinking

      that there existed no other except his mother alone. And when he saw the multitude of the

      angels which he had created, then he exalted himself above them. 
"And when the mother recognized that the garment of darkness was imperfect, then

      she knew that her consort had not agreed with her. She repented with much weeping. And the

      whole pleroma heard the prayer of her repentance, and they praised on her behalf the

      invisible, virginal Spirit. And he consented; and when the invisible Spirit had consented,

      the holy Spirit poured over her from their whole pleroma. For it was not her consort who

      came to her, but he came to her through the pleroma in order that he might correct her

      deficiency. And she was taken up not to her own aeon but above her son, that she might be

      in the ninth until she has corrected her deficiency. 
"And a voice came forth from the exalted aeon-heaven: 'The Man exists and the son

      of Man.' And the chief archon, Yaltabaoth, heard (it) and thought that the voice had come

      from his mother. And he did not know from where it came. And he taught them, the holy and

      perfect Mother-Father, the complete foreknowledge, the image of the invisible one who is

      the Father of the all (and) through whom everything came into being, the first Man. For he

      revealed his likeness in a human form. 
"And the whole aeon of the chief archon trembled, and the foundations of the abyss

      shook. And of the waters which are above matter, the underside was illuminated by the

      appearance of his image which had been revealed. And when all the authorities and the

      chief archon looked, they saw the whole region of the underside which was illuminated. And

      through the light they saw the form of the image in the water. 
"And he said to the authorities which attend him, 'Come, let us create a man

      according to the image of God and according to our likeness, that his image may become a

      light for us.' And they created by means of their respective powers in correspondence with

      the characteristics which were given. And each authority supplied a characteristic in the

      form of the image which he had seen in its natural (form). He created a being according to

      the likeness of the first, perfect Man. And they said, 'Let us call him Adam, that his

      name may become a power of light for us.' 
"And the powers began: the first one, goodness, created a bone-soul; and the

      second, foreknowledge, created a sinew-soul; the third, divinity, created a flesh-soul;

      and the fourth, the lordship, created a marrow-soul; the fifth, kingdom created a

      blood-soul; the sixth, envy, created a skin-soul; the seventh, understanding, created a

      hair-soul. And the multitude of the angels attended him and they received from the powers

      the seven substances of the natural (form) in order to create the proportions of the limbs

      and the proportion of the rump and the proper working together of each of the parts. 
"The first one began to create the head. Eteraphaope-Abron created his head;

      Meniggesstroeth created the brain; Asterechme (created) the right eye; Thaspomocha, the

      left eye; Yeronumos, the right ear; Bissoum, the left ear; Akioreim, the nose;

      Banen-Ephroum, the lips; Amen, the teeth; Ibikan, the molars; Basiliademe, the tonsils;

      Achcha, the uvula; Adaban, the neck; Chaaman, the vertebrae; Dearcho, the throat; Tebar,

      the right shoulder; [...], the left shoulder; Mniarcon, the right elbow; [...], the left

      elbow; Abitrion, the right underarm; Evanthen, the left underarm; Krys, the right hand;

      Beluai, the left hand; Treneu, the fingers of the right hand; Balbel, the fingers of the

      left hand; Kriman, the nails of the hands; Astrops, the right breast; Barroph, the left

      breast; Baoum, the right shoulder joint; Ararim, the left shoulder joint; Areche, the

      belly; Phthave, the navel; Senaphim, the abdomen; Arachethopi, the right ribs; Zabedo, the

      left ribs; Barias, the right hip; Phnouth the left hip; Abenlenarchei, the marrow;

      Chnoumeninorin, the bones; Gesole, the stomach; Agromauna, the heart; Bano, the lungs;

      Sostrapal, the liver; Anesimalar, the spleen; Thopithro, the intestines; Biblo, the

      kidneys; Roeror, the sinews; Taphreo, the spine of the body; Ipouspoboba, the veins;

      Bineborin, the arteries; Atoimenpsephei, theirs are the breaths which are in all the

      limbs; Entholleia, all the flesh; Bedouk, the right buttock (?); Arabeei, the left penis;

      Eilo, the testicles; Sorma, the genitals; Gorma-Kaiochlabar, the right thigh; Nebrith, the

      left thigh; Pserem, the kidneys of the right leg; Asaklas, the left kidney; Ormaoth, the

      right leg; Emenun, the left leg; Knyx, the right shin-bone; Tupelon, the left shin-bone;

      Achiel, the right knee; Phnene, the left knee; Phiouthrom, the right foot; Boabel, its

      toes; Trachoun, the left foot; Phikna, its toes; Miamai, the nails of the feet; Labernioum

      - . 
"And those who were appointed over all of these are: Zathoth, Armas, Kalila,

      Jabel, (Sabaoth, Cain, Abel). And those who are particularly active in the limbs (are) the

      head Diolimodraza, the neck Yammeax, the right shoulder Yakouib, the left shoulder Verton,

      the right hand Oudidi, the left one Arbao, the fingers of the right hand Lampno, the

      fingers of the left hand Leekaphar, the right breast Barbar, the left breast Imae, the

      chest Pisandriaptes, the right shoulder joint Koade, the left shoulder joint Odeor, the

      right ribs Asphixix, the left ribs Synogchouta, the belly Arouph, the womb Sabalo, the

      right thigh Charcharb, the left thigh Chthaon, all the genitals Bathinoth, the right leg

      Choux, the left leg Charcha, the right shin-bone Aroer, the left shin-bone Toechtha, the

      right knee Aol, the left knee Charaner, the right foot Bastan, its toes Archentechtha, the

      left foot Marephnounth, its toes Abrana. 
"Seven have power over all of these: Michael, Ouriel, Asmenedas, Saphasatoel,

      Aarmouriam, Richram, Amiorps. And the ones who are in charge over the senses (are)

      Archendekta; and he who is in charge over the receptions (is) Deitharbathas; and he who is

      in charge over the imagination (is) Oummaa; and he who is over the composition Aachiaram,

      and he who is over the whole impulse Riaramnacho. 
"And the origin of the demons which are in the whole body is determined to be

      four: heat, cold, wetness, and dryness. And the mother of all of them is matter. And he

      who reigns over the heat (is) Phloxopha; and he who reigns over the cold is Oroorrothos;

      and he who reigns over what is dry (is) Erimacho; and he who reigns over the wetness (is)

      Athuro. And the mother of all of these, Onorthochrasaei, stands in their midst, since she

      is illimitable, and she mixes with all of them. And she is truly matter, for they are

      nourished by her. 
"The four chief demons are: Ephememphi, who belongs to pleasure, Yoko, who belongs

      to desire, Nenentophni, who belongs to grief, Blaomen, who belongs to fear. And the mother

      of them all is Aesthesis-Ouch-Epi-Ptoe. And from the four demons passions came forth. And

      from grief (came) envy, jealousy, distress, trouble, pain, callousness, anxiety, mourning,

      etc. And from pleasure much wickedness arises, and empty pride, and similar things. And

      from desire (comes) anger, wrath, and bitterness, and bitter passion, and unsatedness, and

      similar things. And from fear (comes) dread, fawning, agony, and shame. All of these are

      like useful things as well as evil things. But the insight into their true (character) is

      Anaro, who is the head of the material soul, for it belongs with the seven senses,

      Ouch-Epi-Ptoe. 
"This is the number of the angels: together they are 365. They all worked on it

      until, limb for limb, the natural and the material body was completed by them. Now there

      are other ones in charge over the remaining passions whom I did not mention to you. But if

      you wish to know them, it is written in the book of Zoroaster. And all the angels and

      demons worked until they had constructed the natural body. And their product was

      completely inactive and motionless for a long time. 
"And when the mother wanted to retrieve the power which she had given to the chief

      archon, she petitioned the Mother-Father of the All, who is most merciful. He sent, by

      means of the holy decree, the five lights down upon the place of the angels of the chief

      archon. They advised him that they should bring forth the power of the mother. And they

      said to Yaltabaoth, 'Blow into his face something of your spirit and his body will arise.'

      And he blew into his face the spirit which is the power of his mother; he did not know

      (this), for he exists in ignorance. And the power of the mother went out of Yaltabaoth

      into the natural body, which they had fashioned after the image of the one who exists from

      the beginning. The body moved and gained strength, and it was luminous. 
"And in that moment the rest of the powers became jealous, because he had come

      into being through all of them and they had given their power to the man, and his

      intelligence was greater than that of those who had made him, and greater than that of the

      chief archon. And when they recognized that he was luminous, and that he could think

      better than they, and that he was free from wickedness, they took him and threw him into

      the lowest region of all matter. 
"But the blessed One, the Mother-Father, the beneficent and merciful One, had

      mercy on the power of the mother which had been brought forth out of the chief archon, for

      they (the archons) might gain power over the natural and perceptible body. And he sent,

      through his beneficent Spirit and his great mercy, a helper to Adam, luminous Epinoia

      which comes out of him, who is called Life. And she assists the whole creature, by toiling

      with him and by restoring him to his fullness and by teaching him about the descent of his

      seed (and) by teaching him about the way of ascent, (which is) the way he came down. And

      the luminous Epinoia was hidden in Adam, in order that the archons might not know her, but

      that the Epinoia might be a correction of the deficiency of the mother. 
"And the man came forth because of the shadow of the light which is in him. And

      his thinking was superior to all those who had made him. When they looked up, they saw

      that his thinking was superior. And they took counsel with the whole array of archons and

      angels. They took fire and earth and water and mixed them together with the four fiery

      winds. And they wrought them together and caused a great disturbance. And they brought him

      (Adam) into the shadow of death, in order that they might form (him) again from earth and

      water and fire and the spirit which originates in matter, which is the ignorance of

      darkness and desire, and their counterfeit spirit. This is the tomb of the newly-formed

      body with which the robbers had clothed the man, the bond of forgetfulness; and he became

      a mortal man. This is the first one who came down, and the first separation. But the

      Epinoia of the light which was in him, she is the one who was to awaken his thinking. 
"And the archons took him and placed him in paradise. And they said to him, 'Eat,

      that is at leisure,' for their luxury is bitter and their beauty is depraved. And their

      luxury is deception and their trees are godlessness and their fruit is deadly poison and

      their promise is death. And the tree of their life they had placed in the midst of

      paradise. 
"And I shall teach you (pl.) what is the mystery of their life, which is the plan

      which they made together, which is the likeness of their spirit. The root of this (tree)

      is bitter and its branches are death, its shadow is hate and deception is in its leaves,

      and its blossom is the ointment of evil, and its fruit is death and desire is its seed,

      and it sprouts in darkness. The dwelling place of those who taste from it is Hades, and

      the darkness is their place of rest. 
"But what they call the tree of knowledge of good and evil, which is the Epinoia

      of the light, they stayed in front of it in order that he (Adam) might not look up to his

      fullness and recognize the nakedness of his shamefulness. But it was I who brought about

      that they ate." 
And to I said to the savior, "Lord, was it not the serpent that taught Adam to

      eat?" The savior smiled and said, "The serpent taught them to eat from

      wickedness of begetting, lust, (and) destruction, that he (Adam) might be useful to him.

      And he (Adam) knew that he was disobedient to him (the chief archon) due to light of the

      Epinoia which is in him, which made him more correct in his thinking than the chief

      archon. And (the latter) wanted to bring about the power which he himself had given him.

      And he brought a forgetfulness over Adam." 
And I said to the savior, "What is the forgetfulness?" And he said "It

      is not the way Moses wrote (and) you heard. For he said in his first book, 'He put him to

      sleep' (Gn 2:21), but (it was) in his perception. For also he said through the prophet, 'I

      will make their hearts heavy, that they may not pay attention and may not see' (Is 6:10). 
"Then the Epinoia of the light hid herself in him (Adam). And the chief archon

      wanted to bring her out of his rib. But the Epinoia of the light cannot be grasped.

      Although darkness pursued her, it did not catch her. And he brought a part of his power

      out of him. And he made another creature, in the form of a woman, according to the

      likeness of the Epinoia which had appeared to him. And he brought the part which he had

      taken from the power of the man into the female creature, and not as Moses said, 'his

      rib-bone.' 
"And he (Adam) saw the woman beside him. And in that moment the luminous Epinoia

      appeared, and she lifted the veil which lay over his mind. And he became sober from the

      drunkenness of darkness. And he recognized his counter-image, and he said, 'This is indeed

      bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh.' Therefore the man will leave his father and his

      mother, and he will cleave to his wife, and they will both be one flesh. For they will

      send him his consort, and he will leave his father and his mother ... (3 lines unreadable)

      
"And our sister Sophia (is) she who came down in innocence in order to rectify her

      deficiency. Therefore she was called Life, which is the mother of the living, by the

      foreknowledge of the sovereignty of heaven. And through her they have tasted the perfect

      Knowledge. I appeared in the form of an eagle on the tree of knowledge, which is the

      Epinoia from the foreknowledge of the pure light, that I might teach them and awaken them

      out of the depth of sleep. For they were both in a fallen state, and they recognized their

      nakedness. The Epinoia appeared to them as a light; she awakened their thinking. 
"And when Yaltabaoth noticed that they withdrew from him, he cursed his earth. He

      found the woman as she was preparing herself for her husband. He was lord over her, though

      he did not know the mystery which had come to pass through the holy decree. And they were

      afraid to blame him. And he showed his angels his ignorance which is in him. And he cast

      them out of paradise and he clothed them in gloomy darkness. And the chief archon saw the

      virgin who stood by Adam, and that the luminous Epinoia of life had appeared in her. And

      Yaltabaoth was full of ignorance. And when the foreknowledge of the All noticed (it), she

      sent some and they snatched life out of Eve. 
"And the chief archon seduced her and he begot in her two sons; the first and the

      second (are) Eloim and Yave. Eloim has a bear-face and Yave has a cat-face. The one is

      righteous but the other is unrighteous. (Yave is righteous but Eloim is unrighteous.) Yave

      he set over the fire and the wind, and Eloim he set over the water and the earth. And

      these he called with the names Cain and Abel with a view to deceive. 
"Now up to the present day, sexual intercourse continued due to the chief archon.

      And he planted sexual desire in her who belongs to Adam. And he produced through

      intercourse the copies of the bodies, and he inspired them with his counterfeit spirit. 
"And the two archons he set over principalities, so that they might rule over the

      tomb. And when Adam recognized the likeness of his own foreknowledge, he begot the

      likeness of the son of man. He called him Seth, according to the way of the race in the

      aeons. Likewise, the mother also sent down her spirit, which is in her likeness and a copy

      of those who are in the pleroma, for she will prepare a dwelling place for the aeons which

      will come down. And he made them drink water of forgetfulness, from the chief archon, in

      order that they might not know from where they came. Thus, the seed remained for a while

      assisting (him), in order that, when the Spirit comes forth from the holy aeons, he may

      raise up and heal him from the deficiency, that the whole pleroma may (again) become holy

      and faultless." 
And I said to the savior, "Lord, will all the souls then be brought safely into

      the pure light?" He answered and said to me, "Great things have arisen in your

      mind, for it is difficult to explain them to others except to those who are from the

      immovable race. Those on whom the Spirit of life will descend and (with whom) he will be

      with the power, they will be saved and become perfect and be worthy of the greatness and

      be purified in that place from all wickedness and the involvements in evil. Then they have

      no other care than the incorruption alone, to which they direct their attention from here

      on, without anger or envy or jealousy or desire and greed of anything. They are not

      affected by anything except the state of being in the flesh alone, which they bear while

      looking expectantly for the time when they will be met by the receivers (of the body).

      Such then are worthy of the imperishable, eternal life and the calling. For they endure

      everything and bear up under everything, that they may finish the good fight and inherit

      eternal life." 
I said to him, "Lord, the souls of those who did not do these works (but) on whom

      the power and Spirit descended, (will they be rejected?" He answered and said to me,

      "If) the Spirit (descended upon them), they will in any case be saved, and they will

      change (for the better). For the power will descend on every man, for without it no one

      can stand. And after they are born, then, when the Spirit of life increases and the power

      comes and strengthens that soul, no one can lead it astray with works of evil. But those

      on whom the counterfeit spirit descends are drawn by him and they go astray." 
And I said, "Lord, where will the souls of these go when they have come out of

      their flesh?" And he smiled and said to me, "The soul in which the power will

      become stronger than the counterfeit spirit, is strong and it flees from evil and, through

      the intervention of the incorruptible one, it is saved, and it is taken up to the rest of

      the aeons." 
And I said, "Lord, those, however, who have not known to whom they belong, where

      will their souls be?" And he said to me, "In those, the despicable spirit has

      gained strength when they went astray. And he burdens the soul and draws it to the works

      of evil, and he casts it down into forgetfulness. And after it comes out of (the body), it

      is handed over to the authorities, who came into being through the archon, and they bind

      it with chains and cast it into prison, and consort with it until it is liberated from the

      forgetfulness and acquires knowledge. And if thus it becomes perfect, it is saved." 
And I said, "Lord, how can the soul become smaller and return into the nature of

      its mother or into man?" Then he rejoiced when I asked him this, and he said to me,

      "Truly, you are blessed, for you have understood! That soul is made to follow another

      one (fem.), since the Spirit of life is in it. It is saved through him. It is not again

      cast into another flesh." 
And I said, "Lord, these also who did not know, but have turned away, where will

      their souls go?" Then he said to me, "To that place where the angels of poverty

      go they will be taken, the place where there is no repentance. And they will be kept for

      the day on which those who have blasphemed the spirit will be tortured, and they will be

      punished with eternal punishment." 
And I said, "Lord, from where did the counterfeit spirit come?" Then he said

      to me, "The Mother-Father, who is rich in mercy, the holy Spirit in every way, the

      One who is merciful and who sympathizes with you (pl.), i.e., the Epinoia of the

      foreknowledge of light, he raised up the offspring of the perfect race and its thinking

      and the eternal light of man. When the chief archon realized that they were exalted above

      him in the height - and they surpass him in thinking - then he wanted to seize their

      thought, not knowing that they surpassed him in thinking, and that he will not be able to

      seize them. 
"He made a plan with his authorities, which are his powers, and they committed

      together adultery with Sophia, and bitter fate was begotten through them, which is the

      last of the changeable bonds. And it is of a sort that is interchangeable. And it is

      harder and stronger than she with whom the gods united, and the angels and the demons and

      all the generations until this day. For from that fate came forth every sin and injustice

      and blasphemy, and the chain of forgetfulness and ignorance and every severe command, and

      serious sins and great fears. And thus the whole creation was made blind, in order that

      they may not know God, who is above all of them. And because of the chain of

      forgetfulness, their sins were hidden. For they are bound with measures and times and

      moments, since it (fate) is lord over everything. 
"And he (the chief archon) repented for everything which had come into being

      through him. This time he planned to bring a flood upon the work of man. But the greatness

      of the light of the foreknowledge informed Noah, and he proclaimed (it) to all the

      offspring which are the sons of men. But those who were strangers to him did not listen to

      him. It is not as Moses said, 'They hid themselves in an ark' (Gn 7: 7), but they hid

      themselves in a place, not only Noah, but also many other people from the immovable race.

      They went into a place and hid themselves in a luminous cloud. And he (Noah) recognized

      his authority, and she who belongs to the light was with him, having shone on them because

      he (the chief archon) had brought darkness upon the whole earth. 
"And he made a plan with his powers. He sent his angels to the daughters of men,

      that they might take some of them for themselves and raise offspring for their enjoyment.

      And at first they did not succeed. When they had no success, they gathered together again

      and they made a plan together. They created a counterfeit spirit, who resembles the Spirit

      who had descended, so as to pollute the souls through it. And the angels changed

      themselves in their likeness into the likeness of their mates (the daughters of men),

      filling them with the spirit of darkness, which they had mixed for them, and with evil.

      They brought gold and silver and a gift and copper and iron and metal and all kinds of

      things. And they steered the people who had followed them into great troubles, by leading

      them astray with many deceptions. They (the people) became old without having enjoyment.

      They died, not having found truth and without knowing the God of truth. And thus the whole

      creation became enslaved forever, from the foundation of the world until now. And they

      took women and begot children out of the darkness according to the likeness of their

      spirit. And they closed their hearts, and they hardened themselves through the hardness of

      the counterfeit spirit until now. 
"I, therefore, the perfect Pronoia of the all, changed myself into my seed, for I

      existed first, going on every road. For I am the richness of the light; I am the

      remembrance of the pleroma. 
"And I went into the realm of darkness and I endured till I entered the middle of

      the prison. And the foundations of chaos shook. And I hid myself from them because of

      their wickedness, and they did not recognize me. 
"Again I returned for the second time, and I went about. I came forth from those

      who belong to the light, which is I, the remembrance of the Pronoia. I entered into the

      midst of darkness and the inside of Hades, since I was seeking (to accomplish) my task.

      And the foundations of chaos shook, that they might fall down upon those who are in chaos

      and might destroy them. And again I ran up to my root of light, lest they be destroyed

      before the time. 
"Still for a third time I went - I am the light which exists in the light, I am

      the remembrance of the Pronoia - that I might enter into the midst of darkness and the

      inside of Hades. And I filled my face with the light of the completion of their aeon. And

      I entered into the midst of their prison, which is the prison of the body. And I said, 'He

      who hears, let him get up from the deep sleep.' And he wept and shed tears. Bitter tears

      he wiped from himself and he said, 'Who is it that calls my name, and from where has this

      hope come to me, while I am in the chains of the prison?' And I said, 'I am the Pronoia of

      the pure light; I am the thinking of the virginal Spirit, who raised you up to the honored

      place. Arise and remember that it is you who hearkened, and follow your root, which is I,

      the merciful one, and guard yourself against the angels of poverty and the demons of chaos

      and all those who ensnare you, and beware of the deep sleep and the enclosure of the

      inside of Hades. 
"And I raised him up, and sealed him in the light of the water with five seals, in

      order that death might not have power over him from this time on. 
"And behold, now I shall go up to the perfect aeon. I have completed everything

      for you in your hearing. And I have said everything to you that you might write them down

      and give them secretly to your fellow spirits, for this is the mystery of the immovable

      race." 
And the savior presented these things to him that he might write them down and keep

      them secure. And he said to him, "Cursed be everyone who will exchange these things

      for a gift or for food or for drink or for clothing or for any other such thing." And

      these things were presented to him in a mystery, and immediately he disappeared from him.

      And he went to his fellow disciples and related to them what the savior had told him. 
Jesus Christ, Amen. 
This translation was made by Frederik Wisse, excerpted from The Nag Hammadi Library in English edited by James M. Robinson, and transcribed for online publication originally at the Gnostic Society Library (gnosis.org).
