
Claudius Apollinaris












Claudius Apollinaris, Bishop of Hierapolis, and Apologist.

From an Unknown Book.
From the Book Concerning the Passover. 
  
From the Same Book.
Claudius 
Apollinaris,
Bishop of Hierapolis, and Apologist.
------------

[a.d. 160-180.] This author, an early apologist, is chiefly interesting as 
  a competent witness, who tells the story of the Thundering 
  Legion
  in an artless manner, and gives it the simple character of an answer to 
  prayer. This subject is treated by Lightfoot, in his recent work on the 
  Apostolic Fathers,
  in an exhaustive manner; and the story, reduced to the simple narrative as 
  Apollinaris gives it, receives from him a just and discriminating 
approval.
Apollinaris, as well as Rhodon, has been imagined the author of the work 
  (ascribed to Asterius Urbanus) against Montanism, dedicated to Abiricius 
  Marcellus.
  This is sufficiently refuted by Routh
  whose Greek text, with notes, must be consulted by the studious.
  
Apollinaris was bishop of Hierapolis on the Maeander, and, Lightfoot thinks, 
was probably with Melito and Polycrates, known to Polycarp, and influenced by 
his example and doctrine.
He addressed his Apology, which is honourably mentioned by Jerome, to M. 
Antoninus, the emperor. He also wrote Adversus Gentes and De Veritate; 
also against the Jews. Serapion calls him
"most blessed."

From an Unknown Book.
  
"This narration (says Eusebius, Hist., v. 5) is given" (it relates to that 
storm of rain which was sent to the army of the Emperor M. Antoninus, to allay 
the thirst of the soldiers, whilst the enemy was discomfited by thunderbolts 
hurled upon them) "even by those historians who are at a wide remove from the 
doctrines that prevail among us, and who have been simply concerned to describe 
what related to the emperors who are the subjects of their history; and 
it has been recorded also by our own writers. But historians without the pale 
of the Church, as being unfriendly to the faith, while they have recorded 
the prodigy, have refrained from acknowledging that it was sent in answer to our 
prayers. On the other hand, our writers, as lovers of truth, have reported the 
matter in a simple and artless way. To this number Apollinaris must be 
considered as belonging. `Thereupon, 'he says, `the legion which had by its 
prayer caused the prodigy received from the emperor a title suitable to the 
occurrence, and was called in the Roman language the Thunder-hurling 
Legion.'"

From the Book Concerning the 
  Passover.
  
There are, then, some who through ignorance raise disputes about these things 
(though their conduct is pardonable: for ignorance is no subject for blame-it 
rather needs further instruction), and say that on the fourteenth day the Lord 
ate the lamb with the disciples, and that on the great day of the feast 
of unleavened bread He Himself suffered; and they quote Matthew as speaking 
in accordance with their view. Wherefore their opinion is contrary to the law, 
and the Gospels seem to be at variance with them.


From the Same Book.
The fourteenth day, the true Passover of the Lord; the great sacrifice, the 
Son of God instead of the lamb, who was bound, who bound the strong, and who was 
judged, though Judge of living and dead, and who was delivered into the 
hands of sinners to be crucified, who was lifted up on the horns of the unicorn, 
and who was pierced in His holy side, who poured forth from His side the two 
purifying elements, 
water and blood, word and spirit, and who was buried on the day of the passover, 
the stone being placed upon the tomb.

