
Apollonius












Apollonius.

------------
[a.d. 211.] He was a most eloquent man, according to St. Jerome; and his 
writings against Montanism were so forcible as to call forth Tertullian himself, 
to confute him, if possible. He flourished under Commodus and Severus, and 
probably until the times of Caracalla. He bears testimony to the existence of a 
canon of Scripture,
and to its inspired authority as the rule of faith and practice; and he 
witnesses, by citation, to the Gospel of St. Matthew. The Revelation of St. John 
also, according to Eusebius, was employed by him in his works; and he preserves 
a tradition that our Lord bade the Apostles continue in Jerusalem for the space 
of twelve years. We cannot affirm that he was invested with any office in the 
Church.Concerning Montanism.

I.
But who is this new teacher? His works and teaching inform us. This is he who 
taught the dissolution of marriage; who inculcated fasting; who called Peruga 
and Tymius, small towns of Phrygia, Jerusalem, because he wished to collect 
thither people from all parts; who set up exactors of money; who craftily 
contrives the taking of gifts under the name of voluntary offerings; who grants 
stipends to those who publish abroad his doctrine, that by means of gluttony the 
teaching of the doctrine may prevail.
II.
We declare to you, then, that these first prophetesses, as soon as they were 
filled with the spirit, left their husbands. Of what falsehood, then, were they 
guilty in calling Prisca a maiden! Do you not think that all Scripture forbids a 
prophet to receive gifts and money? When, therefore, I see that the prophetess 
has received gold and silver and expensive articles of dress, how can I avoid 
treating her with disapproval?
III.
Moreover, Themison also, who was clothed in a garb of plausible
covetousness, who declined to bear the sign of confessorship, but by a large sum 
of money put away from him the chains of martyrdom, although after such 
conduct it was his duty to conduct himself with humility, ye had the hardihood 
to boast that he was a martyr, and, in imitation of the apostle, to compose a 
general epistle, in which he attempted to instruct
in the elements of the faith those who had believed to better purpose than he, 
and defended the doctrines of the new-fangled teaching,
and moreover uttered blasphemy against the Lord and the apostles and the holy 
Church.
IV.
But, not to dwell further on these matters, let the prophetess tell us 
concerning Alexander, who calls himself a martyr, with whom she joins in 
banqueting; who himself also is worshipped by many;
whose robberies and other deeds of daring, for which he has been punished, it is 
not necessary for us to speak of, since the treasury
has him in keeping. Which of them, then, condones the sins of the other? The 
prophet the robberies of the martyr, or the martyr the covetousness of the 
prophet? For whereas the Lord has said, "Provide not gold, nor silver, nor two 
coats a-piece,"
these men have, on the flat contrary, transgressed the command by the 
acquisition of these forbidden things. For we shall show that those who are 
called among them prophets and martyrs obtain money not only from the rich, but 
also from the poor, from orphans and widows. And if they are confident that 
they are right in so doing, let them stand forward and discuss the 
point, in order that, if they be refuted, they may cease for the future so 
to transgress. For the fruits of the prophet must needs be brought to the test: 
for "from its fruit is the tree known."
But that those that desire it may become acquainted with what relates to 
Alexander, he was condemned by Aemilius Frontinus, proconsul at Ephesus, not on 
account of the name of Christ, but for the daring robberies he committed 
when he was already a transgressor.
Afterwards, when he had spoken falsely of the name of the Lord, he was released, 
having deceived the faithful there;
and even the brethren of his own district,
from which he came, did not receive him, because he was a robber. Thus, those 
who wish to learn what he is, have the public treasury of Asia to go to. And yet 
the prophet, although he spent many years with him, knows forsooth 
nothing about him! By convicting "him," we by his means clearly convict of 
misrepresentation
the prophet likewise. We are able to prove the like in the case of many 
others besides. And if they are confident of their innocence, let 
them abide the test.
V.
If they deny that their prophets have taken gifts, let them confess thus 
much, that if they be convicted of having taken them, they are not prophets; and 
we will adduce ten thousand proofs that they have. It is proper, too, 
that all the fruits of a prophet should be examined. Tell me: does a prophet dye 
his hair? Does a prophet use stibium on his eyes? Is a prophet 
fond of dress? Does a prophet play at gaming-tables and dice? Does a prophet 
lend money on interest?
Let them confess whether these things are allowable or not. For my part, I will 
prove that these practices have occurred among them.

