
The Apology of Aristides the Philosopher













St. Aristides the Philosopher of Athens: APOLOGY 



THE APOLOGY OF ARISTIDES THE PHILOSOPHER 

TRANSLATED FROM THE SYRIAC VERSION 
BY D. M. KAY, B.Sc., B.D., ASSISTANT TO THE PROFESSOR OF SEMITIC LANGUAGES IN 
THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH. 




EDITOR'S NOTE: The Apology of Aristides, mentioned by Eusebius, St. Jerome, 
and other ancient writers and said to have been the inspiration for the great 
works of St. Justin Martyr, was considered lost until the late Nineteenth 
Century, when an Armenian fragment was discovered. Then in 1889 the full text in 
Syriac translation was found in the library of St. Catherine's in the Sinai. 
Ironically, it was then realized that the work had never been lost at all: a 
slightly shortened version of it had been preserved in the well-known Life of 
St. Barlaam of India, by St. John of Damascus. (Since the numerous references to 
Greek gods would have made little impact on an Indian audience, one may assume 
that St. John, writing for a Greek readership which would have found a 
denunciation of Vedic or Buddhist deities equally meaningless, decided to insert 
the Apology of Aristides as a sort of rough equivalent of whatever Barlaam 
actually preached to the Brahmins.) 
St. Aristides delivered the Apology around the year 125, when Hadrian 
visited Athens [Eusebius, H.E. IV, iii]. His memory is kept by the Church on 31 
August. 
Since the Greek version found in Barlaam and Ioasaph is widely 
available online, we here give the longer version preserved in Syriac. Note that 
there are a number of "Syrianisms" is this version -- cultural rather than 
theological, such as the reference to Hades as "Sheol". -- N. Redington, St. 
Pachomius Library.


THE APOLOGY OF ARISTIDES
Here follows the defence which Aristides the philosopher made before Hadrian 
the King on behalf of reverence for God.
. . . All-powerful Caesar Titus Hadrianus Antoninus, venerable and merciful, 
from Marcianus Aristides, an Athenian philosopher.
I. I, O King, by the grace of God came into this world; and when I had 
considered the heaven and the earth and the seas, and had surveyed the sun and 
the rest of creation, I marvelled at the beauty of the world. And I perceived 
that the world and all that is therein are moved by the power of another; and I 
understood that he who moves them is God, who is hidden in them, and veiled by 
them. And it is manifest that that which causes motion is more powerful than 
that which is moved. But that I should make search concerning this same mover of 
all, as to what is his nature (for it seems to me, he is indeed unsearchable in 
his nature), and that I should argue as to the constancy of his government, so 
as to grasp it fully,--this is a vain effort for me; for it is not possible that 
a man should fully comprehend it. I say, however, concerning this mover of the 
world, that he is God of all, who made all things for the sake of mankind. And 
it seems to me that this is reasonable, that one should fear God and should not 
oppress man.
I say, then, that God is not born, not made, an ever-abiding nature without 
beginning and without end, immortal, perfect, and incomprehensible. Now when I 
say that he is "perfect," this means that there is not in him any defect, and he 
is not in need of anything but all things are in need of him. And when I say 
that he is "without beginning," this means that everything which has beginning 
has also an end, and that which has an end may be brought to an end. He has no 
name, for everything which has a name is kindred to things created. Form he has 
none, nor yet any union of members; for whatsoever possesses these is kindred to 
things fashioned. He is neither male nor female. The heavens do not limit him, 
but the heavens and all things, visible and invisible, receive their bounds from 
him. Adversary he has none, for there exists not any stronger than he. Wrath and 
indignation he possesses not, for there is nothing which is able to stand 
against him. Ignorance and forgetfulness are not in his nature, for he is 
altogether wisdom and understanding; and in Him stands fast all that exists. He 
requires not sacrifice and libation, nor even one of things visible; He requires 
not aught from any, but all living creatures stand in need of him.
II. Since, then, we have addressed you concerning God, so far as our 
discourse can bear upon him, let us now come to the race of men, that we may 
know which of them participate in the truth of which we have spoken, and which 
of them go astray from it. 
This is clear to you, O King, that there are four classes of men in this 
world:--Barbarians and Greeks, Jews and Christians. The Barbarians, indeed, 
trace the origin of their kind of religion from Kronos and from Rhea and their 
other gods; the Greeks, however, from Helenos, who is said to be sprung from 
Zeus. And by Helenos there were born Aiolos and Xuthos; and there were others 
descended from Inachos and Phoroneus, and lastly from the Egyptian Danaos and 
from Kadmos and from Dionysos. 
The Jews, again, trace the origin of their race from Abraham, who begat 
Isaac, of whom was born Jacob. And he begat twelve sons who migrated from Syria 
to Egypt; and there they were called the nation of the Hebrews, by him who made 
their laws; and at length they were named Jews. 

The Christians, then, trace the beginning of their religion from Jesus the 
Messiah; and he is named the Son of God Most High. And it is said that God came 
down from heaven, and from a Hebrew virgin assumed and clothed himself with 
flesh; and the Son of God lived in a daughter of man. This is taught in the 
gospel, as it is called, which a short time was preached among them; and you 
also if you will read therein, may perceive the power which belongs to it. This 
Jesus, then, was born of the race of the Hebrews; and he had twelve disciples in 
order that the purpose of his incarnation might in time be accomplished. But he 
himself was pierced by the Jews, and he died and was buried; and they say that 
after three days he rose and ascended to heaven. Thereupon these twelve 
disciples went forth throughout the known parts of the world, and kept showing 
his greatness with all modesty and uprightness. And hence also those of the 
present day who believe that preaching are called Christians, and they are 
become famous. 
So then there are, as I said above, four classes of men:--Barbarians and 
Greeks, Jews and Christians. 
Moreover the wind is obedient to God, and fire to the angels; the waters also 
to the demons and the earth to the sons of men. [Possibly inserted by mistake 
into one of the early MSS.]
III. Let us begin, then, with the Barbarians, and go on to the rest of the 
nations one after another, that we may see which of them hold the truth as to 
God and which of them hold error. 
The Barbarians, then, as they did not apprehend God, went astray among the 
elements, and began to worship things created instead of their Creator; and for 
this end they made images and shut them up in shrines, and lo! they worship 
them, guarding them the while with much care, lest their gods be stolen by 
robbers. And the Barbarians did not observe that that which acts as guard is 
greater than that which is guarded, and that every one who creates is greater 
than that which is created. If it be, then, that their gods are too feeble to 
see to their own safety, how will they take thought for the safety of men? Great 
then is the error into which the Barbarians wandered in worshipping lifeless 
images which can do nothing to help them. And I am led to wonder, O King, at 
their philosophers, how that even they went astray, and gave the name of gods to 
images which were made in honour of the elements; and that their sages did not 
perceive that the elements also are dissoluble and perishable. For if a small 
part of an element is dissolved or destroyed, the whole of it may be dissolved 
and destroyed. If then the elements themselves are dissolved and destroyed and 
forced to be subject to another that is more stubborn than they, and if they are 
not in their nature gods, why, for sooth, do they call the images which are made 
in their honour, God? Great, then, is the error which the philosophers among 
them have brought upon their followers.
IV. Let us turn now, O King, to the elements in themselves, that we may make 
clear in regard to them, that they are not gods, but a created thing, liable to 
ruin and change, which is of the same nature as man; whereas God is imperishable 
and unvarying, and invisible, while yet He sees, and overrules, and transforms 
all things. 
Those then who believe concerning the earth that it is a god have hitherto 
deceived themselves, since it is furrowed and set with plants and trenched; and 
it takes in the filthy refuse of men and beasts and cattle. And at times it 
becomes unfruitful, for if it be burnt to ashes it becomes devoid of life, for 
nothing germinates from an earthen jar. And besides if water be collected upon 
it, it is dissolved together with its products. And lo! it is trodden under foot 
of men and beast, and receives the blood of the slain; and it is dug open, and 
filled with the dead, and becomes a tomb for corpses. But it is impossible that 
a nature, which is holy and worthy and blessed and immortal, should allow of any 
one of these things. And hence it appears to us that the earth is not a god but 
a creation of God.
V. In the same way, again, those erred who believed the waters to be gods. 
For the waters were created for the use of man, and are put under his rule in 
many ways. For they suffer change and admit impurity, and are destroyed and lose 
their nature while they are boiled into many substances. And they take colours 
which do not belong. to them; they are also congealed by frost and are mingled 
and permeated with the filth of men and beasts, and with the blood of the slain. 
And being checked by skilled workmen through the restraint of aqueducts, they 
flow and are diverted against their inclination, and come into gardens and other 
places in order that they may be collected and issue forth as a means of 
fertility for man, and that they may cleanse away every impurity and fulfil the 
service man requires from them. Wherefore it is impossible that the waters 
should be a god, but they are a work of God and a part of the world. 
In like manner also they who believed that fire is a god erred to no slight 
extent. For it, too, was created for the service of men, and is subject to them 
in many ways:--in the preparation of meats, and as a means of casting metals, 
and for other ends whereof your Majesty is aware. At the same time it is 
quenched and extinguished in many ways. 
Again they also erred who believed the motion of the winds to be a god. For 
it is well known to us that those winds are under the dominion of another, at 
times their motion increases, and at times it fails and ceases at the command of 
him who controls them. For they were created by God for the sake of men, in 
order to supply the necessity of trees and fruits and seeds; and to bring over 
the sea ships which convey for men necessaries and goods from places where they 
are found to places where they are not found; and to govern the quarters of the 
world. And as for itself, at times it increases and again abates; and in one 
place brings help and in another causes disaster at the bidding of him who rules 
it. And mankind too are able by known means to confine and keep it in check in 
order that it may fulfil for them the service they require from it. And of 
itself it has not any authority at all. And hence it is impossible that the 
winds should be called gods, but rather a thing made by God.
VI. So also they erred who believed that the sun is a god. For we see that it 
is moved by the compulsion of another, and revolves and makes its journey, and 
proceeds from sign to sign, rising and setting every day, so as to give warmth 
for the growth of plants and trees, and to bring forth into the air wherewith it 
(sunlight) is mingled every growing thing which is upon the earth. And to it 
there belongs by comparison a part in common with the rest of the stars in its 
course; and though it is one in its nature it is associated with many parts for 
the supply of the needs of men; and that not according to its own will but 
rather according to the will of him who rules it. And hence it is impossible 
that the sun should be a god, but the work of God; and in like manner also the 
moon and the stars.
VII. And those who believed of the men of the past, that some of them were 
gods, they too were much mistaken. For as you yourself allow, O King, man is 
constituted of the four elements and of a soul and a spirit (and hence he is 
called a microcosm), and without any one of these parts he could not consist. He 
has a beginning and an end, and he is born and dies. But God, as I said, has 
none of these things in his nature, but is uncreated and imperishable. And hence 
it is not possible that we should set up man to be of the nature of God:--man, 
to whom at times when he looks for joy, there comes trouble, and when he looks 
for laughter there comes to him weeping,--who is wrathful and covetous and 
envious, with other defects as well. And he is destroyed in many ways by the 
elements and also by the animals. 
And hence, O King, we are bound to recognize the error of the Barbarians, 
that thereby, since they did not find traces of the true God, they fell aside 
from the truth, and went after the desire of their imagination, serving the 
perishable elements and lifeless images, and through their error not 
apprehending what the true God is.
VIII. Let us turn further to the Greeks also, that we may know what opinion 
they hold as to the true God. The Greeks, then, because they are more subtle 
than the Barbarians, have gone further astray than the Barbarians; inasmuch as 
they have introduced many fictitious gods, and have set up some of them as males 
and some as females; and in that some of their gods were found who were 
adulterers, and did murder, and were deluded, and envious, and wrathful and 
passionate, and parricides, and thieves, and robbers. And some of them, they 
say, were crippled and limped, and some were sorcerers, and some actually went 
mad, and some played on lyres, and some were given to roaming on the hills, and 
some even died, and some were struck dead by lightning, and some were made 
servants even to men, and some escaped by flight, and some were kidnapped by 
men, and some, indeed, were lamented and deplored by men. And some, they say, 
went down to Sheol, and some were grievously wounded, and some transformed 
themselves into the likeness of animals to seduce the race of mortal women, and 
some polluted themselves by lying with males And some, they say, were wedded to 
their mothers and their sisters and their daughters. And they say of their gods 
that they committed adultery with the daughters of men; and of these there was 
born a certain race which also was mortal. And they say that some of the females 
disputed about beauty, and appeared before men for judgment. Thus, O King, have 
the Greeks put forward foulness, and absurdity, and folly about their gods and 
about themselves, in that they have called those that are of such a nature gods, 
who are no gods. And hence mankind have received incitements to commit adultery 
and fornication, and to steal and to practise all that is offensive and hated 
and abhorred. For if they who are called their gods practised all these things 
which are written above, how much more should men practise them--men, who 
believe that their gods themselves practised them. And owing to the foulness of 
this error there have happened to mankind harassing wars, and great famines, and 
bitter captivity, and complete desolation. And lo! it was by reason of this 
alone that they suffered and that all these things came upon them;and while they 
endured those things they did not perceive in their mind that for their error 
those things came upon them.
IX. Let us proceed further to their account of their gods that we may 
carefully demonstrate all that is said above. First of all, the Greeks bring 
forward as a god Kronos, that is to say Chiun (Saturn). And his worshippers 
sacrifice their children to him, and they burn some of them alive in his honour. 
And they say that he took to him among his wives Rhea, and begat many children 
by her. By her too he begat Dios, who is called Zeus. And at length he (Kronos) 
went mad, and through fear of an oracle that had been made known to him, he 
began to devour his sons. And from him Zeus was stolen away without his 
knowledge; and at length Zeus bound him, and mutilated the signs of his manhood, 
and flung them into the sea. And hence, as they say in fable, there was 
engendered Aphrodite, who is called Astarte. And he (Zeus) cast out Kronos 
fettered into darkness. Great then is the error and ignominy which the Greeks 
have brought forward about the first of their gods, in that they have said all 
this about him, O King. It is impossible that a god should be bound or 
mutilated; and if it be otherwise, he is indeed miserable. 
And after Kronos they bring forward another god Zeus. And they say of him 
that he assumed the sovereignty, and was king over all the gods. And they say 
that he changed himself into a beast and other shapes in order to seduce mortal 
women, and to raise up by them children for himself. Once, they say, he changed 
himself into a bull through love of Europe and Pasiphae. And again he changed 
himself into the likeness of gold through love of Danae, and to a swan through 
love of Leda, and to a man through love of Antiope, and to lightning through 
love of Luna, and so by these he begat many children. For by Antiope, they say, 
that he begat Zethus and Amphion, and by Luna Dionysos, by Alcmena Hercules, and 
by Leto, Apollo and Artemis, and by Danae Perseus, and by Leda, Castor and 
Polydeuces, and Helene and Paludus, and by Mnemosyne he begat nine daughters 
whom they styled the Muses, and by Europe, Minos and Rhadamanthos and Sarpedon. 
And lastly he changed himself into the likeness of an eagle through his passion 
for Ganydemos (Ganymede) the shepherd. 
By reason of these tales, O King, much evil has arisen among men, who to this 
day are imitators of their gods, and practise adultery and defile themselves 
with their mothers and their sisters, and by lying with males, and some make 
bold to slay even their parents. For if he who is said to be the chief and king 
of their gods do these things how much more should his worshippers imitate him? 
And great is the folly which the Greeks have brought forward in their narrative 
concerning him. For it is impossible that a god should practise adultery or 
fornication or come near to lie with males, or kill his parents; and if it be 
otherwise, he is much worse than a destructive demon.
X. Again they bring forward as another god Hephaistos. And they say of him, 
that he is lame, and a cap is set on his head, and he holds in his hands 
firetongs and a hammer; and he follows the craft of iron working, that thereby 
he may procure the necessaries of his livelihood. Is then this god so very 
needy? But it cannot be that a god should be needy or lame, else he is very 
worthless. 
And further they bring in another god and call him Hermes. And they say that 
he is a thief, a lover of avarice, and greedy for gain, and a magician, and 
mutilated and an athlete, and an interpreter of language. But it is impossible 
that a god should be a magician or avaricious, or maimed, or craving for what is 
not his, or an athlete.And if it be otherwise, he is found to be useless. 
And after him they bring forward as another god Asklepios. And they say that 
he is a physician and prepares drugs and plaster that he may supply the 
necessaries of his livelihood. Is then this god in want? And at length he was 
struck with lightning by Dios on account of Tyndareos of Lacedaemon, and so he 
died. If then Asklepios were a god, and, when he was struck with lightning, was 
unable to help himself, how should he be able to give help to others? But that a 
divine nature should be in want or be destroyed by lightning is impossible. 
And again they bring forward another as a god, and they call him Ares. And 
they say that he is a warrior, and jealous, and covets sheep and things which 
are not his. And he makes gain by his arms. And they say that at length he 
committed adultery with Aphrodite, and was caught by the little boy Eros and by 
Hephaistos the husband of Aphrodite. But it is impossible that a god should be a 
warrior or bound or an adulterer. 
And again they say of Dionysos that he forsooth! is a god, who arranges 
carousals by night, and teaches drunkenness, and carries off women who do not 
belong to him. And at length, they say, he went mad and dismissed his 
handmaidens and fled into the desert; and during his madness he ate serpents. 
And at last he was killed by Titanos. If then Dionysos were a god, and when he 
was being killed was unable to help himself, how is it possible that he should 
help others? 
Herakles next they bring forward and say that he is a god, who hates 
detestable things, a tyrant, and warrior and a destroyer of plagues. And of him 
also they say that at length he became mad and killed his own children, and east 
himself into a fire and died. If then Herakles is a god, and in all these 
calamities was unable to rescue himself, how should others ask help from him? 
But it is impossible that a god should be mad, or drunken or a slayer of his 
children, or consumed by fire.
XI. And after him they bring forward another god and call him Apollon. And 
they say that he is jealous and inconstant, and at times he holds the bow and 
quiver, and again the lyre and plectron. And he utters oracles for men that he 
may receive rewards from them. Is then this god in need of rewards? But it is an 
insult that all these things should be found with a god. 

And after him they bring forward as a goddess Artemis, the sister of Apollo; 
and they say that she was a huntress and that she herself used to carry a bow 
and bolts, and to roam about upon the mountains, leading the hounds to hunt 
stags or wild bears of the field. But it is disgraceful that a virgin maid 
should roam alone upon the hills or hunt in the chase for animals. Wherefore it 
is impossible that Artemis should be a goddess. 
Again they say of Aphrodite that she indeed is a goddess. And at times she 
dwells with their gods, but at other times she is a neighbour to men. And once 
she had Ares as a lover, and again Adonis who is Tammuz. Once also, Aphrodite 
was wailing and weeping for the death of Tammuz, and they my that she went down 
to Sheol that she might redeem Adonis from Persephone, who is the daughter of 
Sheol (Hades). If then Aphrodite is a goddess and was unable to help her lover 
at his death, how will she find it possible to help others? And this cannot be 
listened to, that a divine nature should come to weeping and wailing and 
adultery. 
And again they say of Tammuz that he is a god. And he is, forsooth! a hunter 
and an adulterer. And they say that he was killed by a wound from a wild boar, 
without being able to help himself. And if he could not help himself, how can he 
take thought for the human race? But that a god should be an adulterer or a 
hunter or should die by violence is impossible. 
Again they say of Rhea that she is the mother of their gods. And they say 
that she had once a lover Atys, and that she used to delight in depraved men. 
And at last she raised a lamentation and mourned for Atys her lover. If then the 
mother of their gods was unable to help her lover and deliver him from death, 
how can she help others? So it is disgraceful that a goddess should lament and 
weep and take delight in depraved men. 
Again they introduce Kore and say that she is a goddess, and she was stolen 
away by Pluto, and could not help herself. If then she is a goddess and was 
unable to help herself how will she find means to help others? For a god who is 
stolen away is very powerless. 
All this, then, O King, have the Greeks brought forward concerning their 
gods, and they have invented and declared it concerning them. And hence all men 
received an impulse to work all profanity and all defilements; and hereby the 
whole earth was corrupted.
XII. The Egyptians, moreover, because they are more base and stupid than 
every people that is on the earth, have themselves erred more than all. For the 
deities (or religion) of the Barbarians and the Greeks did not suffice for them, 
but they introduced some also of the nature of the animals, and said thereof 
that they were gods, and likewise of creeping things which are found on the dry 
land and in the waters. And of plants and herbs they said that some of them were 
gods. And they were corrupted by every kind of delusion and defilement more than 
every people that is on the earth. For from ancient times they worshipped Isis, 
and they say that she is a goddess whose husband was Osiris her brother. And 
when Osiris was killed by Typhon his brother, Isis fled with Horos her son to 
Byblus in Syria, and was there for a certain time till her son was grown. And he 
contended with Typhon his uncle, and killed him. And then Isis returned and went 
about with Horos her son and sought for the dead body of Osiris her lord, 
bitterly lamenting his death. If then Isis be a goddess, and could not help 
Osiris her brother and lord, how can she help another? But it is impossible that 
a divine nature should be afraid, and flee for safety, or should weep and wail; 
or else it is very miserable. 
And of Osiris also they say that he is a serviceable god. And he was killed 
by Typhon and was unable to help himself. But it is well known that this cannot 
be asserted of divinity. And further, they say of his brother Typhon that he is 
a god, who killed his brother and was killed by his brother's son and by his 
bride, being unable to help himself. And how, pray, is he a god who does not 
save himself? 
As the Egyptians, then, were more stupid than the rest of the nations, these 
and such like gods did not suffice for them. Nay, but they even apply the name 
of gods to animals in which there is no soul at all. For some of them worship 
the sheep and others the calf; and some the pig and others the shad fish; and 
some the crocodile and the hawk and the fish and the ibis and the vulture and 
the eagle and the raven. Some of them worship the cat, and others the 
turbot-fish, some the dog, some the adder, and some the asp, and others the 
lion; and others the garlic and onions and thorns, and others the tiger and 
other such things. And the poor creatures do not see that all these things are 
nothing, although they daily witness their gods being eaten and consumed by men 
and also by their fellows; while some of them are cremated, and some die and 
decay and become dust, without their observing that they perish in many ways. So 
the Egyptians have not observed that such things which are not equal to their 
own deliverance, are not gods. And if, forsooth, they are weak in the case of 
their own deliverance, whence have they power to help in the case of deliverance 
of their worshippers? Great then is the error into which the Egyptians 
wandered;--greater, indeed, than that of any people which is upon the face of 
the earth.
XIII. But it is a marvel, O King, with regard to the Greeks, who surpass all 
other peoples in their manner of life and reasoning, how they have gone astray 
after dead idols and lifeless images. And yet they see their gods in the hands 
of their artificers being sawn out, and planed and docked, and hacked short, and 
charred, and ornamented, and being altered by them in every kind of way. And 
when they grow old, and are worn away through lapse of time, and when they are 
molten and crushed to powder, how, I wonder, did they not perceive concerning 
them, that they are not gods? And as for those who did not find deliverance for 
themselves, how can they serve the distress of men? 
But even the writers and philosophers among them have wrongly alleged that 
the gods are such as are made in honour of God Almighty. And they err in seeking 
to liken (them) to God whom man has not at any time seen nor can see unto what 
He is like. Herein, too (they err) in asserting of deity that any such thing as 
deficiency can be present to it; as when they say that He receives sacrifice and 
requires burnt-offering and libation and immolations of men, and temples. But 
God is not in need, and none of these things is necessary to Him; and it is 
clear that men err in these things they imagine. 
Further their writers and their philosophers represent and declare that the 
nature of all their gods is one. And they have not apprehended God our Lord who 
while He is one, is in all. They err therefore. For if the body of a man while 
it is many in its parts is not in dread, one member of another, but, since it is 
a united body, wholly agrees with itself; even so also God is one in His nature. 
A single essence is proper to Him, since He is uniform in His nature and His 
essence; and He is not afraid of Himself. If then the nature of the gods is one, 
it is not proper that a god should either pursue or slay or harm a god. If then 
gods be pursued and wounded by gods, and some be kidnapped and some struck dead 
by lightning, it is obvious that the nature of their gods is not one. And hence 
it is known, O King, that it is a mistake when they reckon and bring the natures 
of their gods under a single nature. If then it becomes us to admire a god which 
is seen and does not see, how much more praiseworthy is it that one should 
believe in a nature which is invisible and all-seeing? And if further it is 
fitting that one should approve the handiworks of a craftsman, how much more is 
it fitting that one should glorify the Creator of the craftsman? 
For behold! when the Greeks made laws they did not perceive that by their 
laws they condemn their gods. For if their laws are righteous, their gods are 
unrighteous, since they transgressed the law in killing one another, and 
practising sorcery, and committing adultery, and in robbing and stealing, and in 
lying with males, and by their other practises as well. For if their gods were 
right in doing all these things as they are described, then the laws of the 
Greeks are unrighteous in not being made according to the will of their gods. 
And in that case the whole world is gone astray. 
For the narratives about their gods are some of them myths, and some of them 
nature-poems (lit: natural--fusikai), and some of them hymns and elegies. 
The hymns indeed and elegies are empty words and noise. But these nature-poems, 
even if they be made as they say, still those are not gods who do such things 
and suffer and endure such things. And those myths are shallow tales with no 
depth whatever in them.
XIV. Let us come now, O King, to the history of the Jews also, and see what 
opinion they have as to God. The Jews then say that God is one, the Creator of 
all, and omnipotent; and that it is not right that any other should be 
worshipped except this God alone. And herein they appear to approach the truth 
more than all the nations, especially in that they worship God and not His 
works. And they imitate God by the philanthropy which prevails among them; for 
they have compassion on the poor, and they release the captives, and bury the 
dead, and do such things as these, which are acceptable before God and 
well-pleasing also to men,--which (customs) they have received from their 
forefathers. 

Nevertheless they too erred from true knowledge. And in their imagination 
they conceive that it is God they serve; whereas by their mode of observance it 
is to the angels and not to God that their service is rendered:--as when they 
celebrate sabbaths and the beginning of the months, and feasts of unleavened 
bread, and a great fast; and fasting and circumcision and the purification of 
meats, which things, however, they do not observe perfectly.
XV. But the Christians, O King, while they went about and made search, have 
found the truth; and as we learned from their writings, they have come nearer to 
truth and genuine knowledge than the rest of the nations. For they know and 
trust in God, the Creator of heaven and of earth, in whom and from whom are all 
things, to whom there is no other god as companion, from whom they received 
commandments which they engraved upon their minds and observe in hope and 
expectation of the world which is to come. Wherefore they do not commit adultery 
nor fornication, nor bear false witness, nor embezzle what is held in pledge, 
nor covet what is not theirs. They honour father and mother, and show kindness 
to those near to them; and whenever they are judges, they judge uprightly. They 
do not worship idols (made) in the image of man; and whatsoever they would not 
that others should do unto them, they do not to others; and of the food which is 
consecrated to idols they do not eat, for they are pure. And their oppressors 
they appease (lit: comfort) and make them their friends; they do good to their 
enemies; and their women, O King, are pure as virgins, and their daughters are 
modest; and their men keep themselves from every unlawful union and from all 
uncleanness, in the hope of a recompense to come in the other world. Further, if 
one or other of them have bondmen and bondwomen or children, through love 
towards them they persuade them to become Christians, and when they have done 
so, they call them brethren without distinction. They do not worship strange 
gods, and they go their way in all modesty and cheerfulness. Falsehood is not 
found among them; and they love one another, and from widows they do not turn 
away their esteem; and they deliver the orphan from him who treats him harshly. 
And he, who has, gives to him who has not, without boasting. And when they see a 
stranger, they take him in to their homes and rejoice over him as a very 
brother; for they do not call them brethren after the flesh, but brethren after 
the spirit and in God. And whenever one of their poor passes from the world, 
each one of them according to his ability gives heed to him and carefully sees 
to his burial. And if they hear that one of their number is imprisoned or 
afflicted on account of the name of their Messiah, all of them anxiously 
minister to his necessity, and if it is possible to redeem him they set him 
free. And if there is among them any that is poor and needy, and if they have no 
spare food, they fast two or three days in order to supply to the needy their 
lack of food. They observe the precepts of their Messiah with much care, living 
justly and soberly as the Lord their God commanded them. Every morning and every 
hour they give thanks and praise to God for His loving-kindnesses toward them; 
and for their food and their drink they offer thanksgiving to Him. And if any 
righteous man among them passes from the world, they rejoice and offer thanks to 
God; and they escort his body as if he were setting out from one place to 
another near. And when a child has been born to one of them, they give thanks to 
God; and if moreover it happen to die in childhood, they give thanks to God the 
more, as for one who has passed through the world without sins. And further if 
they see that any one of them dies in his ungodliness or in his sins, for him 
they grieve bitterly, and sorrow as for one who goes to meet his doom.
XVI. Such, O King, is the commandment of the law of the Christians, and such 
is their manner of life. As men who know God, they ask from Him petitions which 
are fitting for Him to grant and for them to receive. And thus they employ their 
whole lifetime. And since they know the loving-kindnesses of God toward them, 
behold! for their sake the glorious things which are in the world flow forth to 
view. And verily, they are those who found the truth when they went about and 
made search for it; and from what we considered, we learned that they alone come 
near to a knowledge of the truth. And they do not proclaim in the ears of the 
multitude the kind deeds they do, but are careful that no one should notice 
them; and they conceal their giving just as he who finds a treasure and conceals 
it. And they strive to be righteous as those who expect to behold their Messiah, 
and to receive from Him with great glory the promises made concerning them. And 
as for their words and their precepts, O King, and their glorying in their 
worship, and the hope of earning according to the work of each one of them their 
recompense which they look for in another world,-you may learn about these from 
their writings. It is enough for us to have shortly informed your Majesty 
concerning the conduct and the truth of the Christians. For great indeed, and 
wonderful is their doctrine to him who will search into it and reflect upon it. 
And verily, this is a new people, and there is something divine (lit: "a divine 
admixture") in the midst of them. 
Take, then, their writings, and read therein, and lo! you will find that I 
have not put forth these things on my own authority, nor spoken thus as their 
advocate; but since I read in their writings I was fully assured of these things 
as also of things which are to come. And for this reason I was constrained to 
declare the truth to such as care for it and seek the world to come. And to me 
there is no doubt but that the earth abides through the supplication of the 
Christians. But the rest of the nations err and cause error in wallowing before 
the elements of the world, since beyond these their mental vision will not pass. 
And they search about as if in darkness because they will not recognize the 
truth; and like drunken men they reel and jostle one another and fall.

XVII. Thus far, O King, I have spoken; for concerning that which remains, as 
is said above, there are found in their other writings things which are hard to 
utter and difficult for one to narrate,--which are not only spoken in words but 
also wrought out in deeds. 
Now the Greeks, O King, as they follow base practises in intercourse with 
males, and a mother and a sister and a daughter, impute their monstrous impurity 
in turn to the Christians. But the Christians are just and good, and the truth 
is set before their eyes, and their spirit is long-suffering; and, therefore, 
though they know the error of these (the Greeks), and are persecuted by them, 
they bear and endure it; and for the most part they have compassion on them, as 
men who are destitute of knowledge. And on their side, they offer prayer that 
these may repent of their error; and when it happens that one of them has 
repented, he is ashamed before the Christians of the works which were done by 
him; and he makes confession to God, saying, I did these things in ignorance. 
And he purifies his heart, and his sins are forgiven him, because he committed 
them in ignorance in the former time, when he used to blaspheme and speak evil 
of the true knowledge of the Christians. And assuredly the race of the 
Christians is more blessed than all the men who are upon the face of the earth. 
Henceforth let the tongues of those who utter vanity and harass the 
Christians be silent; and hereafter let them speak the truth. For it is of 
serious consequence to them that they should worship the true God rather than 
worship a senseless sound. And verily whatever is spoken in the mouth of the 
Christians is of God; and their doctrine is the gateway of light. Wherefore let 
all who are without the knowledge of God draw near thereto; and they will 
receive incorruptible words, which are from all time and from eternity. So shall 
they appear before the awful judgment which through Jesus the Messiah is 
destined to come upon the whole human race. 
The Apology of Aristides the Philosopher is finished. 

