
Basilides












The following texts are attributed to Basilides by the patristic writers noted
            below:  





1. Hippolytus, Refutations.
There was when naught was: nay, even that "naught" was not aught of things
            that are. But nakedly, conjecture and mental quibbling apart, there was absolutely not
            even the one. And when i use the term "was" I do not mean to say that it was
            ;but merely to give some suggestion of what i wish to indicate, I use the expression
            "there was absolutely naught". Naught was, neither matter, nor substance, nor
            voidness of substance, nor simplicity, nor impossibility of composition, nor
            inconceptibility, imperceptibility, neither man, nor angel, nor God ; in fine, anything at
            all for which man has ever found a name, nor by any operation ehich falls within range of
            his perception or conception. 
2. Clement of Alexandria, Miscellanies 4.81.2-4.83.2
{Basilides, in Book 23 of his "Commentaries," speaks of those who suffer
            punishment as martyrs, with the following words:} I believe that all who experience the
            so-called tribulations must have committed sins other than what they realize, and so have
            been brought to this good end. Through the kindness of that which leads each one of them
            about, they are actually accused of an extraneous set of charges so they might not have to
            suffer as confessed criminals convicted of crimes, nor be reviles as adulterers or
            murderers, but rather might suffer because they are disposed by nature to be Christian.
            And this encourages them to think that they are not suffering. But even if a person should
            happen to suffer without having sinned at all - which is rare - still, that person's
            suffering is not caused by the plotting of some power. Rather, it is analogous to the
            sufffering of a new-born baby, who seems not to have sinned.
{Then, farther along, he adds:} A new-born baby, then, has never sinned before; or more
            precisely it has not actually committed any sins, but within itself it has the activity of
            sinning. Whenever it experiences suffering, it receives benefit, profiting by many
            unpleasant experiences. Just so, if by chance a grown man has not sinned by deed and yet
            suffers, he suffered the suffering for the same reason as the new-born baby: he has within
            him sinfulness, and the only reason he has not sinned (in deed) is because he has not had
            the occasion to do so. Thus not sinning cannot be imputed to him. Indeed, someone who
            intends to commit adultery is an adulterer even without succeeding in the act, and someone
            who intends to commit murder is a murderer even without being able to commit the act. Just
            so, if I see the aforementioned sinless person suffering despite having done no wrong, I
            must call that person evil by intent to sin. For I will say anything rather than call
            providence evil. {Then, farther along, he speaks of the Lord outright as of a human being:
Nevertheless, let us suppose that you leave aside all these matters and set out to
            embarrass me by referring to certain figures, saying perhaps, "And consequently
            so-and-so must have sinned, since he suffered!" If you permit, I shall say that he
            did not sin, but was like the new-born baby that suffers. But if you press the argument, I
            shall say that any human being that you can name is human; God is righteous. For no one is
            pure of uncleanness, as someone once said. {Actually, Basilides' presupposition is that
            the soul previously sinned in another life and undergoes its punishment in the present
            one. Excellent souls are punished honorably, by martyrdom; other kinds are purified by
            some other appropriate punishment.
3. Clement of Alexandria, Miscellanies 4.86.1
We assume that one part of the so-called will of God is to love all; a second is to
            desire nothing; and a third is to hate nothing.
4. Origen, Commentary on the Epistle to the Romans 1015B
Indeed, the Apostle (Paul) has said, "I was once alive apart from the law,"
            [Rom 7:9] at some time or other. That is (Paul means), before I came into this body, I
            lived in the kind of body that is not subject to the law: the body of a domestic animal or
            a bird. 

