
Caius












CAIUS 
[TRANSLATED BY THE REV. S. D. F. SALMOND, M.A.] 
FRAGMENTS OF CAIUS 
I.--FROM A DIALOGUE OR DISPUTATION AGAINST PROCLUS. 
I. 
(Preserved in Eusebius' Eccles. Hist., ii. 25.) 
AND I can show the trophies of the apostles. For if you choose to go to the 
Vatican or to the Ostian Road, you will find the trophies of those who founded 
this church. 
Il. 
(In the same, iii. 28.) 
But Cerinthus, too, through revelations written, as he would have us believe, 
by a great apostle, brings before us marvellous things, which he pretends were 
shown him by angels; alleging that after the resurrection the kingdom of Christ 
is to be on earth, and that the flesh dwelling in Jerusalem is again to be 
subject to desires and pleasures. And being an enemy to the Scriptures of God, 
wishing to deceive men, he says that there is to be a space of a thousand years 
for marriage festivals. lII. 
(In the same, iii. 31.) 
And after this there were four prophetesses, daughters of Philip, at 
Hierapolis in Asia. Their tomb is there, and that, too, of their father. 
II.--AGAINST THE HERESY OF ARTEMON. 
I. 
(In Eusebius' Eccl. Hist., v. 28.) 
For they say that all those of the first age, and the apostles themselves, 
both received and taught those things which these men now maintain; and that the 
truth of Gospel preaching was preserved until the times of Victor, who was the 
thirteenth bishop in Rome from Peter, and that from his successor Zephyrinus the 
truth was falsified. And perhaps what they allege might be credible, did not the 
Holy Scriptures, in the first place, contradict them. And then, besides, there 
are writings of certain brethren older than the times of Victor, which they 
wrote against the heathen in defence of the truth, and against the heresies of 
their time: I mean Justin and Miltiades, and Tatian and Clement, and many 
others, in all which divinity is ascribed to Christ. For who is ignorant of the 
books of Irenaeus and Melito, and the rest, which declare Christ to be God and 
man? All the psalms, too, and hymns of brethren, which have been written from 
the beginning by the faithful, celebrate Christ the Word of God, ascribing 
divinity to Him. Since the doctrine of the Church, then, has been proclaimed so 
many years ago, how is it possible that men have preached, up to the time of 
Victor, in the manner asserted by these? And how are they not ashamed to utter 
these calumnies against Victor, knowing well that Victor excommunicated 
Theodotus the tanner, the leader and father of this God-denying apostasy, who 
first affirmed that Christ was a mere man? For if, as they allege, Victor 
entertained the very opinions which their blasphemy teaches, how should he have 
cast off Theodotus, the author of this heresy? 
II. 
(In Eusebius, as above.) 
I shall, at any rate, remind many of the brethren of an affair that took 
place in our own time,--an affair which, had it taken place in Sodom, might, I 
think, have been a warning even to them. There was a certain confessor, 
Natalius, 
who lived not in distant times, but in our own day. He was deluded once by 
Asclepiodotus, and another Theodotus, a banker. And these were both disciples of 
Theodotus the tanner, the first who was cut off from communion on account of 
this sentiment, or rather senselessness, by Victor, as I said, the bishop of the 
time. Now Natalius was persuaded by them to let himself be chosen bishop of this 
heresy, on the understanding that he should receive from them a salary of a 
hundred and fifty denarii a month. Connecting himself, therefore, with them, he 
was on many occasions admonished by the Lord in visions. For our merciful God 
and Lord Jesus Christ was not willing that a witness of His own sufferings 
should perish, being without the Church. But as he gave little heed to the 
visions, being ensnared by the dignity of presiding among them, and by that 
sordid lust of gain which ruins very many, he was at last scourged by holy 
angels, and severely beaten through a whole night, so that he rose early in the 
morning, anti threw himself, clothed with sackcloth and covered with ashes, 
before Zephyrinus the bishop, with great haste and many tears, rolling beneath 
the feet not only of the clergy, but even of the laity, and moving the pity of 
the compassionate Church of the merciful Christ by his weeping. And after trying 
many a prayer, and showing the weals left by the blows which he had received, he 
was at length with difficulty admitted to communion. 
III. 
(In Eusebius, as above) 
The sacred Scriptures they have boldly falsified, and the canons of the 
ancient faith they have rejected, and Christ they have ignored, not inquiring 
what the sacred Scriptures say, but laboriously seeking to discover what form of 
syllogism might be contrived to establish their impiety. And should any one lay 
before them a word of divine Scripture, they examine whether it will make a 
connected or disjoined form of syllogism; and leaving the Holy Scriptures of 
God, they study geometry, as men who are of the earth, and speak of the earth, 
and are ignorant of Him who cometh from above. 
Euclid, indeed, is laboriously measured by some of them. and Aristotle and 
Theophrastus are admired; and Galen, forsooth, is perhaps even worshipped by 
some of them. But as to those men who abuse the arts of the unbelievers to 
establish their own heretical doctrine, and by the craft of the impious 
adulterate the simple faith of the divine Scriptures, what need is there to say 
that these are not near the faith? For this reason is it they have boldly laid 
their hands upon the divine Scriptures, alleging that they have corrected them. 
And that I do not state this against them falsely, any one who pleases may 
ascertain. For if any one should choose to collect and compare all their copies 
together, he would find many discrepancies among them. The copies of 
Asclepiades, at any rate, will be found at variance with those of Theodotus. And 
many such copies are to be had, because their disciples were very zealous in 
inserting the corrections, as they call them, i.e., the corruptions made by each 
of them. And again, the copies of Hermophilus do not agree with these; anti as 
for those of Apollonius, they are not consistent even with themselves. For one 
may compare those which were formerly prepared by them with those which have 
been afterwards corrupted with a special object, and many discrepancies will be 
found. And as to the great audacity implied in this offence, it is not likely 
that even they themselves can be ignorant of that. For either they do not 
believe that the divine Scriptures were dictated by the Holy Spirit, and are 
thus infidels; or they think themselves wiser than the Holy Spirit, and what are 
they then but demoniacs? Nor can they deny that the crime is theirs, when the 
copies have been written with their own hand; nor did they receive such copies 
of the Scriptures from those by whom they were first instructed in the faith, 
and they cannot produce copies from which these were transcribed. And some of 
them did not even think it worth while to corrupt them; but simply denying the 
law and the prophets for the sake of their lawless and impious doctrine, trader 
pretexts of grace, they sunk down to the lowest abyss of perdition. 

III.--CANON MURATORIANUS. 
(In Muratori, V. C. Antiq. Ital. Med. av., vol. iii. col. 854.) 
I . . . . those things at which he was present he placed thus. The third book 
of the Gospel, that according to Luke, the well-known physician Luke wrote in 
his own name in order after the ascension of Christ, and when Paul had 
associated him with himself as one studious of right. Nor did he himself see the 
Lord in the flesh; and he, according as he was able to accomplish it, began his 
narrative with the nativity of John. The fourth Gospel is that of John, one of 
the disciples. When his fellow-disciples and bishops entreated him, he said, 
"Fast ye now with me for the space of three days, and let us recount to each 
other whatever may be revealed to each of us." On the same night it was revealed 
to Andrew, one of the apostles, that John should narrate all things in his own 
name as they called them to mind. And hence, although different points s are 
taught us in the several books of the Gospels, there is no difference as regards 
the faith of believers, inasmuch as in all of them all things are related under 
one imperial Spirit, which concern the Lord's nativity, His passion, His 
resurrection, His conversation with His disciples, and His twofold advent,--the 
first in the humiliation of rejection, which is now past, and the second in the 
glory of royal power, which is yet in the future. What marvel is it, then, that 
John brings forward these several things so constantly in his epistles also, 
saying in his own person, "What we have seen with our eyes, and heard with our 
ears, and our hands have handled, that have we written." For thus he professes 
himself to be not only the eye-witness, but also the hearer; and besides that, 
the historian of all the wondrous facts concerning the Lord in their order. 
2. Moreover, the Acts of all the Apostles are comprised by Luke in one book, 
and addressed to the most excellent Theophilus, because these different events 
took place when he was present himself; and he shows this clearly--i.e., that 
the principle on which he wrote was, to give only what fell under his own 
notice--by the omission of the passion of Peter, and also of the journey of 
Paul, when he went from the city--Rome--to Spain. 
3. As to the epistles of Paul, again, to those who will understand the 
matter, they indicate of themselves what they are, and from what place or with 
what object they were directed. He wrote first of all, and at considerable 
length, to the Corinthians, to check the schism of heresy; and then to the 
Galatians, to forbid circumcision; and then to the Romans on the rule of the OId 
Testament Scriptures, and also to show them that Christ is the first object in 
these;--which it is needful for us to discuss severally, as the blessed Apostle 
Paul, following the rule of his predecessor John, writes to no more than seven 
churches by name, in this order: the first to the Corinthians, the second to the 
Ephesians, the third to the Philippians, the fourth to the Colossians, the fifth 
to the Galatians, the sixth to the Thessalonians, the seventh to the Romans. 
Moreover, though he writes twice to the Corinthians and Thessalonians for their 
correction, it is yet shown--i.e., by this sevenfold writing--that there is one 
Church spread abroad through the whole world. And John too, indeed, in the 
Apocalypse, although he writes only to seven churches, yet addresses all. He 
wrote, besides these, one to Philemon, and one to Titus, and two to Timothy, in 
simple personal affection and love indeed; but yet these are hallowed in the 
esteem of the Catholic Church, and in the regulation of ecclesiastical 
discipline. There are also in circulation one to the Laodiceans, and another to 
the Alexandrians, forged under the name of Paul, and addressed against the 
heresy of Marcion; and there are also several others which cannot be received 
into the Catholic Church, for it is not suitable for gall to be mingled with 
honey. 
4. The Epistle of Jude, indeed, and two belonging to the above-named John--or 
bearing the name of John--are reckoned among the Catholic epistles. And the book 
of Wisdom, written by the friends of Solomon in his honour. We receive also the 
Apocalypse of John and that of Peter, though some amongst us will not have this 
latter read in the Church. The Pastor, moreover, did Hermas write very recently 
in our times in the city of Rome, while his brother bishop Plus sat in the chair 
of the Church of Rome. And therefore it also ought to be read; but it cannot be 
made public in the Church to the people, nor placed among the prophets, as their 
number is complete, nor among the apostles to the end of time. Of the writings 
of Arsinous, called also Valentinus, or of Miltiades, we receive nothing at all. 
Those are rejected too who wrote the new Book of Psalms for Marcion, together 
with Basilides and the founder of the Asian Cataphrygians. 

