
Clement of Alexandria












THE INSTRUCTOR. 
[PAEDAGOGUS.] 
THE INSTRUCTOR 
BOOK I 
CHAP. I. THE OFFICE OF THE INSTRUCTOR. 
AS there are these three things in the case of man, habits, actions, and 
passions; habits are the department appropriated by hortatory discourse the 
guide to piety, which, like the ship's keel, is laid beneath for the building up 
of faith; in which, rejoicing exceedingly, and abjuring our old opinions, 
through salvation we renew our youth, singing with the hymning prophecy, "How 
good is God to Israel, to such as are upright in heart!" All actions, again, are 
the province of preceptive discourse; while persuasive discourse applies itself 
to heal the passions. It is, however, one and the self-same word which rescues 
man from the custom of this world in which he has been reared, and trains him up 
in the one salvation of faith in God. 
When, then, the heavenly guide, the Word, was inviting men to salvation, the 
appellation of hortatory was properly applied to Him: his same word was called 
rousing (the whole from a part). For the whole of piety is hortatory, 
engendering in the kindred faculty of reason a yearning after true life now and 
to come. But now, being at once curative and preceptive, following in His own 
steps, He makes what had been prescribed the subject of persuasion, promising 
the cure of the passions within us. Let us then designate this Word 
appropriately by the one name Tutor (or Paedagogue, or instructor). 
The Instructor being practical, not theoretical, His aim is thus to improve 
the soul, not to teach, and to train it up to a virtuous, not to an intellectual 
life. Although this same word is didactic, but not in the present instance. For 
the word which, in matters of doctrine, explains and reveals, is that whose 
province it is to teach. But our Educators being practical, first exhorts to the 
attainment of right dispositions and character, and then persuades us to the 
energetic practice of our duties, enjoining on us pure commandments, and 
exhibiting to such as come after representations of those who formerly wandered 
in error. Both are of the highest utility,--that which assumes the form of 
counselling to obedience, and that which is presented in the form of example; 
which latter is of two kinds, corresponding to the former duality,--the one 
having for its purpose that we should choose and imitate the good, and the other 
that we should reject and turn away from the opposite. 
Hence accordingly ensues the healing of our passions, in consequence of the 
assuagements of those examples; the Paedagogue strengthening our souls, and by 
His benign commands, as by gentle medicines, guiding the sick to the perfect 
knowledge of the truth. 
There is a wide difference between health and knowledge; for the latter is 
produced by learning, the former by healing. One, who is ill, will not therefore 
learn any branch of instruction till he is quite well. For neither to learners 
nor to the sick is each injunction invariably expressed similarly; but to the 
former in such a way as to lead to knowledge, and to the latter to health. As, 
then, for those of us who are diseased in body a physician is required, so also 
those who are diseased in soul require a paedagogue to cure our maladies; and 
then a teacher, to train and guide the soul to all requisite knowledge when it 
is made able to admit the revelation of the Word. Eagerly desiring, then, to 
perfect us by a gradation conducive to salvation, suited for efficacious 
discipline, a beautiful arrangement is observed by the all-benignant Word, who 
first exhorts, then trains, and finally teaches. 
CHAP. II.--OUR INSTRUCTOR'S TREATMENT OF OUR SINS. 
Now, O you, my children, our Instructor is like His Father God, whose son He 
is, sinless, blameless, and with a soul devoid of passion; God in the form of 
man, stainless, the minister of His Father's will, the Word who is God, who is 
in the Father, who is at the Father's right hand, and with the form of God is 
God. He is to us a spotless image; to Him we are to try with all our might to 
assimilate our souls. He is wholly free from human passions; wherefore also He 
alone is judge, because He alone is sinless. As far, however, as we can, let us 
try to sin as little as possible. For nothing is so urgent in the first place as 
deliverance from passions and disorders, and then the checking of our liability 
to fall into sins that have become habitual. It is best, therefore, not to sin 
at all in any way, which we assert to be the prerogative of God alone; next to 
keep clear of voluntary transgressions, which is characteristic of the wise man; 
thirdly, not to fall into many involuntary offences, which is peculiar to those 
who have been excellently trained. Not to continue long in sins, let that be 
ranked last. But this also is salutary to those who are called back to 
repentance, to renew the contest. 
And the Instructor, as I think, very beautifully says, through Moses: "If any 
one die suddenly by him, straightway the head of his consecration shall be 
polluted, and shall be shaved," designating involuntary sin as sudden death. And 
He says that it pollutes by defiling the soul: wherefore He prescribes the cure 
with all speed, advising the head to be instantly shaven; that is, counselling 
the locks of ignorance which shade the reason to be shorn clean off, that reason 
(whose seat is in the brain), being left bare of the dense stuff of vice, may 
speed its way to repentance. Then after a few remarks He adds, "The days before 
are not reckoned irrational," by which manifestly sins are meant which are 
contrary to reason. The involuntary act He calls "sudden," the sin He calls 
"irrational." Wherefore the Word, the Instructor, has taken the charge of us, in 
order to the prevention of sin, which is contrary to reason. 
Hence consider the expression of Scripture, "Therefore these things saith the 
Lord;" the sin that had been committed before is held up to reprobation by the 
succeeding expression "therefore," according to which the righteous judgment 
follows. This is shown conspicuously by the prophets, when they said, "Hadst 
thou not sinned, He would not have uttered these threatenings." 
"Therefore thus saith the Lord; "Because thou hast not heard these words, 
therefore these things the Lord;" and, "Therefore, behold, the Lord saith." 
For prophecy is given by reason both of obedience and disobedience: for 
obedience, that we may be saved; for disobedience, that we may be corrected. 
Our Instructor, the Word, therefore cures the unnatural passions of the soul 
by means of exhortations. For with the highest propriety the help of bodily 
diseases is called the healing art--an art acquired by human skill. But the 
paternal Word is the only Paeonian physician of human infirmities, and the holy 
charmer of the sick soul. "Save," it is said, "Thy servant, O my God, who 
trusteth in Thee. Pity me, O Lord; for I will cry to Thee all the day." For a 
while the "physician's art," according to Democritus, "heals the diseases of the 
body; wisdom frees the soul from passion." But the good Instructor, the Wisdom, 
the Word of the Father, who made man, cares for the whole nature of His 
creature; the all-sufficient Physician of humanity, the Saviour, heals both body 
and soul. "Rise up," He said to the paralytic; "take the bed on which thou 
liest, and go away home;" and straightway the infirm man received strength. And 
to the dead He said, "Lazarus, go forth;" and the dead man issued from his 
coffin such as he was ere he died, having undergone resurrection. Further, He 
heals the soul itself by precepts and gifts--by precepts indeed, in course of 
time, but being liberal in His gifts, He says to us sinners, "Thy sins be 
forgiven thee." 
We, however, as soon as He conceived the thought, became His children, having 
had assigned us the best and most secure rank by His orderly arrangement, which 
first circles about the world, the heavens, and the sun's circuits, and occupies 
itself with the motions of the rest of the stars for man's behoof, and then 
busies itself with man himself, on whom all its care is concentrated; and 
regarding him as its greatest work, regulated his soul by wisdom and temperance, 
and tempered the body with beauty and proportion. And whatever in human actions 
is right and regular, is the result of the inspiration of its rectitude and 
order. 
CHAP. III.--THE PHILANTHROPY OF THE INSTRUCTOR. 
The Lord ministers all good and all help, both as man and as God: as God, 
forgiving our sins; and as man, training us not to sin. Man is therefore justly 
dear to God, since he is His workmanship. The other works of creation He made by 
the word of command alone, but man He framed by Himself, by His own hand, and 
breathed into him what was peculiar to Himself. What, then, was fashioned by 
Him, and after He likeness, either was created by God Himself as being desirable 
on its own account, or was formed as being desirable on account of something 
else. 'If, then, man is an object desirable for itself, then He who is good 
loved what is good, and the love-charm is within even in man, and is that very 
thing which is called the inspiration [or breath of God; but if man was a 
desirable object on account of something else, God had no other reason for 
creating him, than that unless he came into being, it was not possible for God 
to be a good Creator, or for man to arrive at the knowledge of God. For God 
would not have accomplished that on account of which man was created otherwise 
than by the creation of man; and what hidden power in willing God possessed, He 
carried fully out by the forth-putting of His might externally in the act of 
creating, receiving from man what He made man; and whom He had He saw, and what 
He wished that came to pass; and there is nothing which God cannot do. Man, 
then, whom God made, is desirable for himself, and that which is desirable on 
his account is allied to him to whom it is desirable on his account; and this, 
too, is acceptable and liked. 
But what is loveable, and is not also loved by Him? And man has been proved 
to be loveable; consequently man is loved by God. For how shall he not be loved 
for whose sake the only-begotten Son is sent from the Father's bosom, the Word 
of faith, the faith which is superabundant; the Lord Himself distinctly 
confessing and saying, "For the Father Himself loveth you, because ye have loved 
Me;" and again, "And hast loved them as Thou hast loved Me?" What, then, the 
Master desires and declares, and how He is disposed in deed and word, how He 
commands what is to be done, and forbids the opposite, has already been shown. 
Plainly, then, the other kind of discourse, the didactic, is powerful and 
spiritual, observing precision, occupied in the contemplation of mysteries. But 
let it stand over for the present. Now, it is incumbent on us to return His 
love, who lovingly guides us to that life which is best; and to live in 
accordance with the injunctions of His will, not only fulfilling what is 
commanded, or guarding against what is forbidden, but turning away from some 
examples, and imitating others as much as we can, and thus to perform the works 
of the Master according to His similitude, and so fulfil what Scripture says as 
to our being made in His image and likeness. For, wandering in life as in deep 
darkness, we need a guide that cannot stumble or stray; and our guide is the 
best, not blind, as the Scripture says, "leading the blind into pits." But the 
Word is keen-sighted, and scans the recesses of the heart. As, then, that is not 
light which enlightens not, nor motion that moves not, nor loving which loves 
not, so neither is that good which profits not, nor guides to salvation. Let us 
then aim at the fulfilment of the commandments by the works of the Lord; for the 
Word Himself also, having openly become flesh, exhibited the same virtue, both 
practical and contemplative. Wherefore let us regard the Word as law, and His 
commands and counsels as the short and straight paths to immortality; for His 
precepts are full of persuasion, not of fear. 
CHAP. IV.--MEN AND WOMEN ALIKE UNDER THE INSTRUCTOR'S CHARGE. 
Let us, then, embracing more and more this good obedience, give ourselves to 
the Lord; clinging to what is surest, the cable of faith in Him, and 
understanding that the virtue of man and woman is the same. For if the God of 
both is one, the master of both is also one; one church, one temperance, one 
modesty; their food is common, marriage an equal yoke; respiration, sight, 
hearing, knowledge, hope, obedience, love all alike. And those whose life is 
common, have common graces and a common salvation; common to them are love and 
training. "For in this world," he says, "they marry, and are given in marriage," 
in which alone the female is distinguished from the male; "but in that world it 
is so no more." There the rewards of this social and holy life, which is based 
on conjugal union, are laid up, not for male and female, but for man, the sexual 
desire which divides humanity being removed. Common therefore, too, to men and 
women, is the name of man. For this reason I think the Attics called, not boys 
only, but girls, paidarion, using it as a word of common gender; if 
Menander the comic poet, in Rhapizomena, appears to any one a sufficient 
authority, who thus speaks:- "My little daughter; for by nature The child 
(paidarion) is most loving. 
Arnes, too, the word for lambs, is a common name of simplicity for the 
male and female animal. 
Now the Lord Himself will feed us as His flock forever. Amen. But without a 
sheperd, neither can sheep nor any other animal live, nor children without a 
tutor, nor domestics without a master. 
CHAP. V.--ALL WHO WALK ACCORDING TO TRUTH ARE CHILDREN OF GOD. 
That, then, Paedagogy is the training of children (paidwn
agwgh), is clear from the word itself. It remains for us to consider the 
children whom Scripture points to; then to give the paedagogue charge of them. 
We are the children. In many ways Scripture celebrates us, and describes us in 
manifold figures of speech, giving variety to the simplicity of the faith by 
diverse names Accordingly, in the Gospel, "the Lord, standing on the shore, says 
to the disciples"--they happened to be fishing--"and called aloud, Children, 
have ye any meat?" --addressing those that were already in the position of 
disciples as children. "And they brought to Him," it is said, "children, that He 
might put His hands on them and bless them; and when His disciples hindered 
them, Jesus said, Suffer the children, and forbid them not to come to Me, for of 
such is the kingdom of heaven." What the expression means the Lord Himself shall 
declare, saying, "Except ye be converted, and become as little chidren, ye shall 
not enter into the kingdom of heaven; " not in that place speaking figuratively 
of regeneration, but setting before us, for our imitation, the simplicity that 
is in children. 
The prophetic spirit also distinguishes us as children. "Plucking," it is 
said, "branches of olives or palms, the children went forth to meet the Lord, 
and cried, saying, Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is He that cometh in the 
name of the Lord; " light, and glory, and praise, with supplication to the Lord: 
for this is the meaning of the expression Hosanna when rendered in Greek. And 
the Scripture appears to me, in allusion to the prophecy just mentioned, 
reproachfully to upbraid the thoughtless: "Have ye never read, Out of the mouths 
of babes and sucklings Thou hast perfected praise?" In this way the Lord in the 
Gospels spurs on His disciples, urging them to attend to Him, hastening as He 
was to the Father; rendering His hearers more eager by the intimation that after 
a little He was to depart, and showing them that it was requisite that they 
should take more unsparing advantage of the truth than ever before, as the Word 
was to ascend to heaven. Again, therefore, He calls them children; for He says, 
"Children, a little while I am with you." And, again, He likens the kingdom of 
heaven to children sitting in the market-places and saying, "We have piped unto 
you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned, and ye have not lamented;" and 
whatever else He added agreeably thereto. And it is not alone the Gospel that 
holds these sentiments. 
Prophecy also agrees with it. David accordingly says, "Praise, O children, 
the LORD; praise the name of the LORD." It says also by Esaias, "Here am I, and 
the children that God hath given me." Are you amazed, then, to hear that men who 
belong to the nations are sons in the Lord's sight? You do not in that case 
appear to give ear to the Attic dialect, from which you may learn that 
beautiful, comely, and freeborn young maidens are still called paidiskai, 
and servant-girls paidiskaria; and that those last also are, on account 
of the bloom of youth, called by the flattering name of young maidens. 
And when He says, "Let my lambs stand on my right,"" He alludes to the simple 
children, as if they were sheep and lambs in nature, not men; and the lambs He 
counts worthy of preference, from the superior regard He has to that tenderness 
and simplicity of disposition in men which constitutes innocence. Again, when He 
says, "as suckling calves," He again alludes figuratively to us; and "as an 
innocent and gentle dove," the reference is again to us. Again, by Moses, He 
commands "two young pigeons or a pair of turtles to be offered for sin;" thus 
saying, that the harmlessness and innocence and placable nature of these tender 
young birds are acceptable to God, and explaining that like is an expiation for 
like. Further, the timorousness of the turtle-doves typifies fear in reference 
to sin. 
And that He calls us chickens the Scripture testifies: "As a hen gathereth 
her chickens under her wings." Thus are we the Lord's chickens; the Word thus 
marvellously and mystically describing the simplicity of childhood. For 
sometimes He calls us children, sometimes chickens, sometimes infants, and at 
other times sons, and "a new people," and "a recent people." "And my servants 
shall be called by a new name" (a new name, He says, fresh and eternal, pure and 
simple, and childlike and true), which shall be blessed on the earth. And again, 
He figuratively calls us colts unyoked to vice, not broken in by wickedness; but 
simple, and bounding joyously to the Father alone; not such horses "as neigh 
after their neighbours' wives, that are under the yoke, and are female-mad;" but 
free and new-born, jubilant by means of faith, ready to run to the truth, swift 
to speed to salvation, that tread and stamp under foot the things of the world. 
"Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Sion; tell aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem: 
behold, thy King cometh, just, meek, and bringing salvation; meek truly is He, 
and riding on a beast of burden, and a young colt." It was not enough to have 
said colt alone, but He added to it also young, to show the youth of humanity in 
Christ, and the eternity of simplicity, which shall know no old age. And we who 
are little ones being such colts, are reared up by our divine colt-tamer. But if 
the new man in Scripture is represented by the ass, this ass is also a colt. 
"And he bound," it is said, "the colt to the vine," having bound this simple and 
childlike people to the word, whom He figuratively represents as a vine. For the 
vine produces wine, as the Word, produces blood, and both drink for health to 
men--wine for the body, blood for the spirit. 
And that He also calls us lambs, the Spirit by the mouth of Isaiah is an 
unimpeachable witness: "He will feed His flock like a shepherd, He will gather 
the lambs with His arm," --using the figurative appellation of lambs, which are 
still more tender than sheep, to express simplicity. And we also in truth, 
honouring the fairest and most perfect objects in life with an appellation 
derived from the word child, have named training paideia, and discipline 
paidagwgia. Discipline (paidagwgia) we declare to be right guiding 
from childhood to virtue. Accordingly, our Lord revealed more distinctly to us 
what is signified by the appellation of children. On the question arising among 
the apostles, "which of them should be the greater," Jesus placed a little child 
in the midst, saying, "Whosoever, shall humble himself as this little child, the 
same shall be the greater in the kingdom of heaven." He does not then use the 
appellation of children on account of their very limited amount of understanding 
from their age, as some have thought. Nor, if He says, "Except ye become as 
these children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of God," are His words to be 
understood as meaning "without learning." We, then, who are infants, no longer 
roll on the ground, nor creep on the earth like serpents as before, crawling 
with the whole body about senseless lusts; but, stretching upwards in soul, 
loosed from the world and our sins, touching the earth on tiptoe so as to appear 
to be in the world, we pursue holy wisdom, although this seems folly to those 
whose wits are whetted for wickedness. Rightly, then, are those called children 
who know Him who is God alone as their Father, who are simple, and infants, and 
guileless, who are lovers of the horns of the unicorns. 
To those, therefore, that have made progress in the word, He has proclaimed 
this utterance, bidding them dismiss anxious care of the things of this world, 
and exhorting them to adhere to the Father alone, in imitation of children. 
Wherefore also in what follows He says: "Take no anxious thought for the morrow; 
sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." Thus He enjoins them to lay aside 
the cares of this life, and depend on the Father alone. And he who fulfils this 
commandment is in reality a child and a son to God and to the world,--to the one 
as deceived, to the other as beloved. And if we have one Master in heaven, as 
the Scripture says, then by common consent those on the earth will be rightly 
called disciples. For so is the truth, that perfection is with the Lord, who is 
always teaching, and infancy and childishness with us, who are always learning. 
Thus prophecy hath honoured perfection, by applying to it the appellation man. 
For instance, by David, He says of the devil: "The LORD abhors the man of 
blood;" he calls him man, as perfect in wickedness. And the Lord is called man, 
because He is perfect in righteousness. Directly in point is the instance of the 
apostle, who says, writing the Corinthians: "For I have espoused you to one man, 
that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ," whether as children or 
saints, but to the Lord alone. And writing to the Ephesians, he has unfolded in 
the clearest manner the point in question, speaking to the following effect: 
"Till we all attain to the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of God, to a 
perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ: that we be 
no longer children, tossed to and fro by every wind of doctrine, by the craft of 
men, by their cunning in stratagems of deceit; but, speaking the truth in love, 
may grow up to Him in all things," --saying these things in order to the 
edification of the body of Christ, who is the head and man, the only one perfect 
in righteousness; and we who are children guarding against the blasts of 
heresies, which blow to our inflation; and not putting our trust in fathers who 
teach us otherwise, are then made perfect when we are the church, having 
received Christ the head. Then it is right to notice, with respect to the 
appellation of infant (nhpios), that 
no nhpion is not predicated of the silly: for the silly man is 
called nhputios: and nhpios is nehpios (since he that is 
tender-hearted is called hpios), as being one that has newly become 
gentle and meek in Conduct. This the blessed Paul most clearly pointed out when 
he said, "When we might have been burdensome as the apostles of Christ, we were 
gentle (hpioi) among you, as a nurse cherisheth her children." The child 
(nhpios) is therefore gentle (hpios), and therefore more tender, 
delicate, and simple, guileless, and destitute of hypocrisy, straightforward and 
upright in mind, which is the basis of simplicity and truth. For He says, "Upon 
whom shall I look, but upon him who is gentle and quiet? " For such is the 
virgin speech, tender, and free of fraud; whence also a virgin is wont to be 
called "a tender bride," and a child "tender-hearted." And we are tender who are 
pliant to the power of persuasion, and are easily drawn to goodness, and are 
mild, and free of the stain of malice and perverseness, for the ancient race was 
perverse and hard-hearted; but the band of infants, the new people which we are, 
i.s delicate as a child. On account of the hearts of the innocent, the apostle, 
in the Epistle to the Romans, owns that he rejoices, and furnishes a kind of 
definition of children, so to speak, when he says, "I would have you wise toward 
good, but simple towards evil." For the name of child, nhpios, is not 
understood by us privatively, though the sons of the grammarians make the 
nh a privative particle. For if they call us who follow after childhood 
foolish, see how they utter blasphemy against the Lord, in regarding those as 
foolish who have betaken themselves to God. But if, which is rather the true 
sense, they themselves understand the designation children of simple ones, we 
glory in the name. For the new minds, which have newly become wise, which have 
sprung into being according to the new covenant, are infantile in the old folly. 
Of late, then, God was known by the coming of Christ: "For no man knoweth God 
but the Son, and he to whom the Son shall reveal Him." 
In contradistinction, therefore, to the older people, the new people are 
called young, having learned the new blessings; and we have the exuberance of 
life's morning prime in this youth which knows no old age, in which we are 
always growing to maturity in intelligence, are always young, always mild, 
always new: for those must necessarily be new, who have become partakers of the 
new Word. And that which participates in eternity is wont to be assimilated to 
the incorruptible: so that to us appertains the designation of the age of 
childhood, a lifelong spring-time, because the truth that is in us, and our 
habits saturated with the truth, cannot be touched by old age; but Wisdom is 
ever blooming, ever remains consistent and the same, and never changes. "Their 
children," it is said, "shall be borne upon their shoulders, and fondled on 
their knees; as one whom his mother comforteth, so also shall I comfort you." 
The mother draws the children to herself; and we seek our mother the Church. 
Whatever is feeble and tender, as needing help on account of its feebleness, is 
kindly looked on, and is sweet and pleasant, anger changing into help in the 
case of such: for thus horses' colts, and the little calves of cows, and the 
lion's whelp, and the stag's fawn, and the child of man, are looked upon with 
pleasure by their fathers and mothers. Thus also the Father of the universe 
cherishes affection towards those who have fled to Him; and having begotten them 
again by His Spirit to the adoption of children, knows them as gentle, and loves 
those alone, and aids and fights for them; and therefore He bestows on them the 
name of child. The word Isaac I also connect with child. Isaac means laughter. 
He was seen sporting with his wife and helpmeet Rebecca by the prying king. The 
king, whose name was Abimelech, appears to me to represent a supramundane wisdom 
contemplating the mystery of sport. They interpret Rebecca to mean endurance. O 
wise sport, laughter also assisted by endurance, and the king as spectator! The 
spirit of those that are children in Christ, whose lives are ordered in 
endurance, rejoice. And this is the divine sport. "Such a sport, of his own, 
Jove sports," says Heraclitus. 
For what other employment is seemly for a wise and perfect man, than to sport 
and be glad in the endurance of what is good-and, in the administration of what 
is good, hold, ing festival with God? That which is signified by the prophet may 
be interpreted differently,namely, of our rejoicing for salvation, as Isaac. He 
also, delivered from death, laughed, sporting and rejoicing with his spouse, who 
was the type of the Helper of our salvation, the Church, to whom the stable name 
of endurance is given; for this cause surely, because she alone remains to all 
generations, rejoicing ever, subsisting as she does by the endurance of us 
believers, who are the members of Christ. And the witness of those that have 
endured to the end, and the rejoicing on their account, is the mystic sport, and 
the salvation accompanied with decorous solace which brings us aid. 

The King, then, who is Christ, beholds from above our laughter, and looking 
through the window, as the Scripture says, views the thanksgiving, and the 
blessing, and the rejoicing, and the gladness, and furthermore the endurance 
which works together with them and their embrace: views His Church, showing only 
His face, which was wanting to the Church, which is made perfect by her royal 
Head. And where, then, was the door by which the Lord showed Himself? The flesh 
by which He was manifested. He is Isaac (for the narrative may be interpreted 
otherwise), who is a type of the Lord, a child as a son; for he was the son of 
Abraham, as Christ the Son of God, and a sacrifice as the Lord, but he was not 
immolated as the Lord. Isaac only bore the wood of the sacrifice, as the Lord 
the wood of the cross. And he laughed mystically, prophesying that the Lord 
should fill us with joy, who have been redeemed from corruption by the blood of 
the Lord. Isaac did everything but suffer, as was right, yielding the precedence 
in suffering to the Word. Furthermore, there is an intimation of the divinity of 
the Lord in His not being slain. For Jesus rose again after His burial, having 
suffered no harm, like Isaac released from sacrifice. And in defence of the 
point to be established, I shall adduce another consideration of the greatest 
weight. The Spirit calls the Lord Himself a child, thus prophesying by Esaias: 
"Lo, to us a child has been born, to us a son has been given, on whose own 
shoulder the government shall be; and His name has been called the Angel of 
great Counsel." Who, then, is this infant child? He according to whose image we 
are made little children. By the same prophet is declared His greatness: 
"Wonderful, Counsellor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace; that He 
might fulfil His discipline: and of His peace there shall be no end." O the 
great God! O the perfect child! The Son in the Father, and the Father in the 
Son. And how shall not the discipline of this child be perfect, which extends to 
all, leading as a schoolmaster us as children who are His little ones? He has 
stretched forth to us those hands of His that are conspicuously worthy of trust. 
To this child additional testimony is borne by John, "the greatest prophet among 
those born of women:" Behold the Lamb of God!" For since Scripture calls the 
infant children lambs, it has also called Him--God the Word--who became man for 
our sakes, and who wished in all points to be made like to us--"the Lamb of 
God"--Him, namely, that is the Son of God, the child of the Father. 
CHAP. VI.--THE NAME CHILDREN DOES NOT IMPLY INSTRUCTION IN ELEMENTARY 
PRINCIPLES. 
We have ample means of encountering those who are given to carping. For we 
are not termed children and infants with reference to the childish and 
contemptible character of our education, as those who are inflated on account of 
knowledge have calumniously alleged. Straightway, on our regeneration, we 
attained that perfection after which we aspired. For we were illuminated, which 
is to know God. He is not then imperfect who knows what is perfect. And do not 
reprehend me when I profess to know God; for so it was deemed right to speak to 
the Word, and He is free. For at the moment of the Lord's baptism there sounded 
a voice from heaven, as a testimony to the Beloved, "Thou art My beloved Son, 
to-day have I begotten Thee." Let us then ask the wise, Is Christ, begotten 
to-day, already perfect, or--what were most monstrous--imperfect? If the latter, 
there is some addition He requires yet to make. But for Him to make any addition 
to His knowledge is absurd, since He is God. For none can be superior to the 
Word, or the teacher of the only Teacher. Will they not then own, though 
reluctant, that the perfect Word born of the perfect Father was begotten in 
perfection, according to oeconomic fore-ordination? And if He was perfect, why 
was He, the perfect one, baptized? It was necessary, they say, to fulfil the 
profession that pertained to humanity. Most excellent. Well, I assert, 
simultaneously with His baptism by John, He becomes perfect? Manifestly. He did 
not then learn anything more from him? Certainly not. But He is perfected by the 
washing--of baptism--alone, and is sanctified by the descent of the Spirit? Such 
is the case. The same also takes place in our case, whose exemplar Christ 
became. Being baptized, we are illuminated; illuminated, we become sons; being 
made sons, we are made perfect; being made perfect, we are made immortal. "I," 
says He, "have said that ye are gods, and all sons of the Highest." This work is 
variously called grace, and illumination, and perfection, and washing: washing, 
by which we cleanse away our sins; grace, by which the penalties accruing to 
transgressions are remitted; and illumination, by which that holy light of 
salvation is beheld, that is, by which we see God clearly. Now we call that 
perfect which wants nothing. For what is yet wanting to him who knows God? For 
it were truly monstrous that that which is not complete should be called a gift 
(or act) of God's grace. Being perfect, He consequently bestows perfect gifts. 
As at 
His command all things were made, so on His bare wishing to bestow grace, 
ensues the perfecting of His grace. For the future of time is anticipated by the 
power of His volition. 
Further release from evils is the beginning of salvation. We then alone, who 
first have touched the confines of life, are already perfect; and we already 
live who are separated from death. Salvation, accordingly, is the following of 
Christ: "For that which is in Him is life. " Verily, verily, I say unto you, He 
that heareth My words, and believeth on Him that sent Me, hath eternal life, and 
cometh not into condemnation, but hath passed from death to life." Thus 
believing alone, and regeneration, is perfection in life; for God is never weak. 
For as His will is work, and this s is named the world; so also His counsel is 
the salvation of men, and this has been called the church. He knows, therefore, 
whom He has called, and whom He has saved; and at one and the same time He 
called and saved them. "For ye are," says the apostle, "taught of God." It is 
not then allowable to think of what is taught by Him as imperfect; and what is 
learned from Him is the eternal salvation of the eternal Saviour, to whom be 
thanks for ever and ever. Amen. And he who is only regenerated--as the name 
necessarily indicates--and is enlightened, is delivered forthwith from darkness, 
and on the instant receives the light. 
As, then, those who have shaken off sleep forthwith become all awake within; 
or rather, as those who try to remove a film that is over the eyes, do not 
supply to them from without the light which they do not possess, but removing 
the obstacle from the eyes, leave the pupil free; thus also we who are baptized, 
having wiped off the sins which obscure the light of the Divine Spirit, have the 
eye of the spirit free, unimpeded, and full of light, by which alone we 
contemplate the Divine, the Holy Spirit flowing down to us from above. This is 
the eternal adjustment of the vision, which is able to see the eternal light, 
since like loves like; and that which is holy, loves that from which holiness 
proceeds, which has appropriately been termed light. "Once ye were darkness, now 
are ye light in the Lord." Hence I am of opinion man was called by the ancients 
fws. But he has not yet received, say they, the perfect gift. I also 
assent to this; but he is in the light, and the darkness comprehendeth him not. 
There is nothing intermediate between light and darkness. But the end is 
reserved till the resurrection of those who believe; and it is not the reception 
of some other thing, but the obtaining of the promise previously made. For we do 
not say that both take place together at the same time--both the arrival at the 
end, and the anticipation of that arrival. For eternity and time are not the 
same, neither is the attempt and the final result; but both have reference to 
the same thing, and one and the same person is concerned in both. Faith, so to 
speak, is the attempt generated in time; the final result is the attainment of 
the promise, secured for eternity. Now the Lord Himself has most clearly 
revealed the equality of salvation, when He said: "For this is the will of my 
Father, that every one that seeth the Son, and believeth on Him, should have 
everlasting life; and I will raise him up in the last day." As far as possible 
in this world, which is what he means by the last day, and which is preserved 
till the time that it shall end, we believe that we are made perfect. Wherefore 
He says, "He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life." If, then, those 
who have believed have life, what remains beyond the possession of eternal life? 

Nothing is wanting to faith, as it is perfect and complete in itself. If 
aught is wanting to it, it is not wholly perfect. But faith is not lame in any 
respect; nor after our departure from this world does it make us who have 
believed, and received without distinction the earnest of future good, wait; but 
having in anticipation grasped by faith that which is future, after the 
resurrection we receive it as present, in order that that may be fulfilled which 
was spoken, "Be it according to thy faith." And where faith is, there is the 
promise; and the consummation of the promise is rest. So that in illumination 
what we receive is knowledge, and the end of knowledge is rest--the last thing 
conceived as the object of aspiration. As, then, inexperience comes to an end by 
experience, and perplexity by finding a clear outlet, so by illumination must 
darkness disappear. The darkness is ignorance, through which we fall into sins, 
purblind as to the truth. Knowledge, then, is the illumination we receive, which 
makes ignorance disappear, and endows us with clear vision. Further, the 
abandonment of what is bad is the adopting of what is better. For what ignorance 
has bound ill, is by knowledge loosed well; those bonds are with all speed 
slackened by human faith and divine grace, our transgressions being taken away 
by one Poeonian medicine, the baptism of the Word. We are washed from all our 
sins, and are no longer entangled in evil. This is the one grace of illu 
mination, that our characters are not the same as before our washing. And since 
knowledge springs up with illumination, shedding its beams around the mind, the 
moment we hear, we who were untaught become disciples. Does this, I ask, take 
place on the advent of this instruction? You cannot tell the time. For 
instruction leads to faith, and faith with baptism is trained by the Holy 
Spirit. For that faith is the one universal salvation of humanity, and that 
there is the same equality before the righteous and loving God, and the same 
fellowship between Him and all, the apostle most clearly showed, speaking to the 
following effect: "Before faith came, we were kept under the law, shut up unto 
the faith which should afterwards be revealed, so that the law became our 
schoolmaster to bring us to Christ, that we might be justified by faith; but 
after that faith is come, we are no longer under a schoolmaster." Do you not 
hear that we are no longer under that law which was accompanied with fear, but 
under the Word, the master of free choice? Then he subjoined the utterance, 
clear of all partiality: "For ye are all the children of God through faith in 
Christ Jesus. For as many as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There 
is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male 
nor female: for ye are all one in Christ Jesus." There are not, then, in the 
same Word some "illuminated (gnostics); and some animal (or natural) men;" but 
all who have abandoned the desires of the flesh are equal and spiritual before 
the Lord. And again he writes in another place: "For by one spirit are we all 
baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether bond or free, and we 
have all drunk of one cup." Nor were it absurd to employ the expressions of 
those who call the reminiscence of better things the filtration of the spirit, 
understanding by filtration the separation of what is baser, that results from 
the reminiscence of what is better. There follows of necessity, in him who has 
come to the recollection of what is better, repentance for what is worse. 
Accordingly, they confess that the spirit in repentance retraces its steps. In 
the same way, therefore, we also, repenting of our sins, renouncing our 
iniquities, purified by baptism, speed back to the eternal light, children to 
the Father. Jesus therefore, rejoicing in the spirit, said: "I thank Thee, O 
Father, God of heaven and earth, that Thou hast hid these things from the wise 
and prudent, and hast revealed them to babes; " the Master and Teacher applying 
the name babes to us, who are readier to embrace salvation than the wise in the 
world, who, thinking themselves wise, are inflated with pride. And He exclaims 
in exultation and exceeding joy, as if lisping with the children, "Even so, 
Father; for so it seemed good in Thy sight." Wherefore those things which have 
been concealed from the wise and prudent of this present world have been 
revealed to babes. Truly, then, are we the children of God, who have put aside 
the old man, and stripped off the garment of wickedness, and put on the 
immortality of Christ; that we may become a new, holy people by regeneration, 
and may keep the man undefiled. And a babe, as God's little one, is cleansed 
from fornication and wickedness. With the greatest clearness the blessed Paul 
has solved for us this question in his First Epistle to the Corinthians, writing 
thus: "Brethren, be not children in understanding; howbeit in malice be 
children, but in understanding be men." And the expression, "When I was a child, 
I thought as a child, I spoke as a child," points out his mode of life according 
to the law, according to which, thinking childish things, he persecuted, and 
speaking childish things he blasphemed the Word, not as having yet attained to 
the simplicity of childhood, but as being in its folly; for the word 
nhpion has two meanings. "When I became a man," again Paul says, "I put 
away childish things." It is not incomplete size of stature, nor a definite 
measure of time, nor additional secret teachings in things that are manly and 
more perfect, that the apostle, who himself professes to be a preacher of 
childishness, alludes to when he sends it, as it were, into banishment; but he 
applies the name "children" to those who are under the law, who are terrified by 
fear as children are by bugbears; and "men" to us who are obedient to the Word 
and masters of ourselves, who have believed, and are saved by voluntary choice, 
and are rationally, not irrationally, frightened by terror. Of this the apostle 
himself shall testify, calling as he does the Jews heirs according to the first 
covenant, and us heirs according to promise: "Now I say, as long as the heir is 
a child, he differeth nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all; but is 
under tutors and governors, till the time appointed by the father. So also we, 
when we were children, were in bondage under the rudiments of the world: but 
when the fulness of the time was came, God sent forth His Son, made of a woman, 
made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might 
receive the adoption of sons " by Him. See how He has admitted those to be 
children who are under fear and sins; but has conferred manhood on those who are 
under faith, by calling them sons, in contradistinction from the children that 
are under the law: "For thou art no more a servant," he says, "but a son; and if 
a son, then an heir through God." What, then, is lacking to the son after 
inheritance? Wherefore the expression, "When I was a child," may be elegantly 
expounded thus: that is, when I was a Jew (for he was a Hebrew by extraction) I 
thought as a child, when I followed the law; but after becoming a man, I no 
longer entertain the sentiments of a child, that is, of the law, but of a man, 
that is, of Christ, whom alone the Scripture calls man, as we have said before. 
"I put away childish things." But the childhood which is in Christ is maturity, 
as compared with the law. Having reached this point, we must defend our 
childhood. And we have still to explain what is said by the apostle: "I have fed 
you with milk (as children in Christ), not with meat; for ye were not able, 
neither yet are ye now able." For it does not appear to me that the expression 
is to be taken in a Jewish sense; for I shall oppose to it also that Scripture, 
"I will bring you into that good land which flows with milk and honey." A very 
great difficulty arises in reference to the comparison of these Scriptures, when 
we consider. For if the infancy which is characterized by the milk is the 
beginning of faith in Christ, then it is disparaged as childish and imperfect. 
How is the rest that comes after the meat, the rest of the man who is perfect 
and endowed with knowledge, again distinguished by infant milk? Does not this, 
as explaining a parable, mean something like this, and is not the expression to 
be read somewhat to the following effect: "I have fed you with milk in Christ; " 
and after a slight stop, let us add, "as children," that by separating the words 
in reading we may make out some such sense as this: I have instructed you in 
Christ with simple, true, and natural nourishment,--namely, that which is 
spiritual: for such is the nourishing substance of milk swelling out from 
breasts of love. So that the whole matter may be conceived thus: As nurses 
nourish new-born children on milk, so do I also by the Word, the milk of Christ, 
instilling into you spiritual nutriment. 
Thus, then, the milk which is perfect is perfect nourishment, and brings to 
that consummation which cannot cease. Wherefore also the same milk and honey 
were promised in the rest. Rightly, therefore, the Lord again promises milk to 
the righteous, that the Word may be clearly shown to be both, "the Alpha and 
Omega, beginning and end;" the Word being figuratively represented as milk. 
Something like this Homer oracularly declares against his will, when he calls 
righteous men milk-fed (galaktofagoi). So also may we take the Scripture: 
"And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto 
carnal, even as unto babes in Christ; " so that the carnal may be understood as 
those recently instructed, and still babes in Christ. For he called those who 
had already believed on the Holy Spirit spiritual, and those newly instructed 
and not yet purified carnal; whom with justice he calls still carnal, as minding 
equally with the heathen the things of the flesh: "For whereas there is among 
you envy and strife, are ye not carnal, and walk as men?" "Wherefore also I have 
given you milk to drink," he says; meaning, I have instilled into you the 
knowledge which, from instruction, nourishes up to life eternal. But the 
expression, "I have given you to drink" (epotisa), is the symbol of 
perfect appropriation. For those who are full-grown are said to drink, babes to 
suck. "For my blood," says the Lord, "is true drink." In saying, therefore, "I 
have given you milk to drink," has he not indicated the knowledge of the truth, 
the perfect gladness in the Word, who is the milk? And what follows next, "not 
meat, for ye were not able," may indicate the clear revelation in the future 
world, like food, face to face. "For now we see as through a glass," the same 
apostle says, "but then face to face." Wherefore also he has added, "neither yet 
are ye now able, for ye are still carnal," minding the things of the 
flesh,--desiring, loving, feeling jealousy, wrath, envy. "For we are no more in 
the flesh," as some suppose. For with it [they say], having the face which is 
like an angel's, we shall see the promise face to face. How then, if that is 
truly the promise after our departure hence, say they that they know "what eye 
hath not known, nor hath entered into the mind of man," who have not perceived 
by the Spirit, but received from instruction "what ear hath not heard," or that 
ear alone which "was rapt up into the third heaven?" But it even then was 
commanded to preserve it unspoken. 
But if human wisdom, as it remains to understand, is the glorying in 
knowledge, hear the law of Scripture: "Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, 
and let not the mighty man glory in his might; but let him that glorieth glory 
in the Lord." But we are God-taught, and glory in the name of Christ. How then 
are we not to regard the apostle as attaching this sense to the milk of the 
babes? And if we who preside over the Churches are shepherds after the image of 
the good Shepherd, and you the sheep, are we not to regard the Lord as 
preserving consistency in the use of figurative speech, when He speaks also of 
the milk of the flock? And to this meaning we may secondly accommodate the 
expression, "I have given you milk to drink, and not given you food, for ye are 
not yet able," regarding the meat not as something different from the milk, but 
the same in substance. For the very same Word is fluid and mild as milk, or 
solid and compact as meat. And entertaining this view, we may regard the 
proclamation of the Gospel, which is universally diffused, as milk; and as meat, 
faith, which from instruction is compacted into a foundation, which, being more 
substantial than hearing, is likened to meat, and assimilates to the soul itself 
nourishment of this kind. Elsewhere the Lord, in the Gospel according to John, 
brought this out by symbols, when He said: "Eat ye my flesh, and drink my blood; 
" describing distinctly by metaphor the drinkable properties of faith and the 
promise, by means of which the Church, like a human being consisting of many 
members, is refreshed and grows, is welded together and compacted of both,--of 
faith, which is the body, and of hope, which is the soul; as also the Lord of 
flesh and blood. For in reality the blood of faith is hope, in which faith is 
held as by a vital principle. 
And when hope expires, it is as if blood flowed forth; and the vitality of 
faith is destroyed. If, then, some would oppose, saying that by milk is meant 
the first lessons--as it were, the first food--and that by meat is meant those 
spiritual cognitions to which they attain by raising themselves to knowledge, 
let them understand that, in saying that meat is solid food, and the flesh and 
blood of Jesus, they are brought by their own vainglorious wisdom to the true 
simplicity. For the blood is found to be an original product in man, and some 
have consequently ventured to call it the substance of the soul. And this blood, 
transmuted by a natural process of assimilation in the pregnancy of the mother, 
through the sympathy of parental affection, effloresces and grows old, in order 
that there may be no fear for the child. Blood, too, is the moister part of 
flesh, being a kind of liquid flesh; and milk is the sweeter and finer part of 
blood. For whether it be the blood supplied to the foetus, and sent through the 
navel of the mother, or whether it be the menses themselves shut out from their 
proper passage, and by a natural diffusion, bidden by the all-nourishing and 
creating God, proceed to the already swelling breasts, and by the heat of the 
spirits transmuted, [whether it be the one or the other] that is formed, into 
food desirable for the babe, that which is changed is the blood. For of all the 
members, the breasts have the most sympathy with the womb. When there is 
parturition, the vessel by which blood was conveyed to the foetus is cut off: 
there is an obstruction Of the flow, and the blood receives an impulse towards 
the breasts; and on a considerable rush taking place, they are distended, and 
change the blood to milk in a manner analogous to the change of blood into pus 
in ulceration. Or if, on the other hand, the blood from the veins in the 
vicinity of the breasts, which have been opened in pregnancy, is poured into the 
natural hollows of the breasts; and the spirit discharged from the neighbouring 
arteries being mixed with it, the substance of the blood, still remaining pure, 
it becomes white by being agitated like a wave; and by an interruption such as 
this is changed by frothing it, like what takes place with the sea, which at the 
assaults of the winds, the poets say, "spits forth briny foam." Yet still the 
essence is supplied by the blood. 
In this way also the rivers, borne on with rushing motion, and fretted by 
contact with the surrounding air, murmur forth foam. The moisture in our mouth, 
too, is whitened by the breath. What an absurdity is it, then, not to 
acknowledge that the blood is converted into that very bright and white 
substance by the breath! The change it suffers is in quality, not in essence. 
You will certainly find nothing else more nourishing, or sweeter, or whiter 
than milk. In every respect, accordingly, it is like spiritual nourishment, 
which is sweet through grace, nourishing as life, bright as the day of Christ. 
The blood of the Word has been also exhibited as milk. Milk being thus 
provided in parturition, is supplied to the infant; and the breasts, which till 
then looked straight towards the husband, now bend down towards the child, being 
taught to furnish the substance elaborated by nature in a way easily received 
for salutary nourishment. For the breasts are not like fountains full of milk, 
flowing in ready prepared; but, by effecting a change in the nutriment, form the 
milk in themselves, and discharge it. And the nutriment suitable and wholesome 
for the new-formed and new-born babe is elaborated by God, the nourisher and the 
Father of all that are generated and regenerated,--as manna, the celestial food 
of angels, flowed down from heaven on the ancient Hebrews. Even now, in fact, 
nurses call the first-poured drink of milk by the same name as that food--manna. 
Further, pregnant women, on becoming mothers, discharge milk. But the Lord 
Christ, the fruit of the Virgin, did not pronounce the breasts of women blessed, 
nor selected them to give nourishment; but when the kind and loving Father had 
rained down the Word, Himself became spiritual nourishment to the good. O mystic 
marvel! The universal Father is one, and one the universal Word; and the Holy 
Spirit is one and the same everywhere, and one is the only virgin mother. I love 
to call her the Church. This mother, when alone, had not milk, because alone she 
was not a woman. But she is once virgin and mother--pure as a virgin, loving as 
a mother. And calling her children to her, she nurses them with holy milk, viz., 
with the Word for childhood. Therefore she had not milk; for the milk was this 
child fair and comely, the body of Christ, which nourishes by the Word the young 
brood, which the Lord Himself brought forth in throes of the flesh, which the 
Lord Himself swathed in His precious blood. O amazing birth! O holy swaddling 
bands! The Word is all to the child, both father and mother and tutor and nurse. 
"Eat ye my flesh," He says, "and drink my blood." Such is the suitable food 
which the Lord ministers, and He offers His flesh and pours forth His blood, and 
nothing is wanting for the children's growth. O amazing mystery l We are 
enjoined to cast off the old and carnal corruption, as also the old nutriment, 
receiving in exchange another new regimen, that of Christ, receiving Him if we 
can, to hide Him within; and that, enshrining the Saviour in our souls, we may 
correct the affections of our flesh. 
But you are not inclined to understand it thus, but perchance more generally. 
Hear it also in the following way. The flesh figuratively represents to us the 
Holy Spirit; for the flesh was created by Him. The blood points out to us the 
Word, for as rich blood the Word has been infused into life; and the union of 
both is the Lord, the food of the babes--the Lord who is Spirit and Word. The 
food- that is, the Lord Jesus--that is, the Word of God, the Spirit made flesh, 
the heavenly flesh sanctified. The nutriment is the milk of the Father, by which 
alone we infants are nourished. The Word Himself, then, the beloved One, and our 
nourisher, hath shed His own blood for us, to save humanity; and by Him, we, 
believing on God, flee to the Word, "the care-soothing breast" of the Father. 
And He alone, as is befitting, supplies us children with the milk of love, and 
those only are truly Messed who suck this breast. Wherefore also Peter says: 
"Laying therefore aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisy, and envy, and 
evil speaking, as new-born babes, desire the milk of the word, that ye may grow 
by it to salvation; if ye have tasted that the Lord is Christ." And were one to 
concede to them that the meat was something different from the milk, then how 
shall they avoid being transfixed on their own spit, through want of 
consideration of nature? For in winter, when the air is condensed, and prevents 
the escape of the heat enclosed within, the food, transmuted and digested and 
changed into blood, passes into the veins, and these, in the absence of 
exhalation, are greatly distended, and exhibit strong pulsations; consequently 
also nurses are then fullest of milk. And we have shown a little above, that on 
pregnancy blood passes into milk by a change which does not affect its 
substance, just as in old people yellow hair changes to grey. But again in 
summer, the body, having its pores more open, affords greater facility for 
diaphoretic action in the case of the food, and the milk is least abundant, 
since neither is the blood full, nor is the whole nutriment retained. If, then, 
the digestion of the food results in the production of blood, and the blood 
becomes milk, then blood is a preparation for milk, as blood is for a human 
being, and the grape for the vine. With milk, then, the Lord's nutriment, we are 
nursed directly we are born; and as soon as we are regenerated, we are honoured 
by receiving the good news of the hope of rest, even the Jerusalem above, in 
which it is written that milk and honey fall in showers, receiving through what 
is material the pledge of the sacred food. "For meats are done away with," as 
the apostle himself says; but this nourishment on milk leads to the heavens, 
rearing up citizens of heaven, and members of the angelic choirs. And since the 
Word is the gushing fountain of life, and has been called a river of olive oil, 
Paul, using appropriate figurative language, and calling Him milk, adds: "I have 
given you to drink;" for we drink in the word, the nutriment of the truth. In 
truth, also liquid food is called drink; and the same thing may somehow be both 
meat and drink, according to the different aspects in which it is considered, 
just as cheese is the solidification of milk or milk solidified; for I am not 
concerned here to make a nice selection of an expression, only to say that one 
substance supplies both articles of food. Besides, for children at the breast, 
milk alone suffices; it serves both for meat and drink. "I," 
says the Lord, "have meat to eat that ye know not of. My meat is to do the 
will of Him that sent Me." You see another kind of food which, similarly with 
milk, represents figuratively the will of God. Besides, also, the completion of 
His own passion He called catachrestically "a cup," when He alone had to drink 
and drain it. Thus to Christ the fulfilling of His Father's will was food; and 
to us infants, who drink the milk of the word of the heavens, Christ Himself is 
food. Hence seeking is called sucking; for to those babes that seek the Word, 
the Father's breasts of love supply milk. 
Further, the Word declares Himself to be the bread of heaven. "For Moses," He 
says, "gave you not that bread from heaven, but My Father giveth you the true 
bread from heaven. For the bread of God is He that cometh down from heaven, and 
giveth life to the world. And the bread which I will give is My flesh, which I 
will give for the life of the world." Here is to be noted the mystery of the 
bread, inasmuch as He speaks of it as flesh, and as flesh, consequently, that 
has risen through fire, as the wheat springs up from decay and germination; and, 
in truth, it has risen through fire for the joy of the Church, as bread baked. 
But this will be shown by and by more clearly in the chapter on the 
resurrection. But since He said, "And the bread which I will give is My flesh," 
and since flesh is moistened with blood, and blood is figuratively termed wine, 
we are bidden to know that, as bread, crumbled into a mixture of wine and water, 
seizes on the wine and leaves the watery portion, so also the flesh of Christ, 
the bread of heaven absorbs the blood; that is, those among men who are 
heavenly, nourishing them up to immortality, and leaving only to destruction the 
lusts of the flesh. 
Thus in many ways the Word is figuratively described, as meat, and flesh, and 
food, and bread, and blood, and milk. The Lord is all these, to give enjoyment 
to us who have believed on Him. Let no one then think it strange, when we say 
that the Lord's blood is figuratively represented as milk. For is it not 
figuratively represented as wine? "Who washes," it is said, "His garment in 
wine, His robe in the blood of the grape." In His Own Spirit He says He will 
deck the body of the Word; as certainly by His own Spirit He will nourish those 
who hunger for the Word. 
And that the blood is the Word, is testified by the blood of Abel, the 
righteous interceding with God. For the blood would never have uttered a voice, 
had it not been regarded as the Word: for the righteous man of old is the type 
of the new righteous one; and the blood of old that interceded, intercedes in 
the place of the new blood. And the blood that is the Word cries to God, since 
it intimated that the Word was to suffer. 
Further, this flesh, and the blood in it, are by a mutual sympathy moistened 
and increased by the milk. And the process of formation of the seed in 
conception ensues when it has mingled with the pure residue of the menses, which 
remains. For the force that is in the seed coagulating the substances of the 
blood, as the rennet curdles milk, effects the essential part of the formative 
process. For a suitable blending conduces to fruitfulness; but extremes are 
adverse, and tend to sterility. For when the earth itself is flooded by 
excessive rain, the seed is swept away, while in consequence of scarcity it is 
dried up; but when the sap is viscous, it retains the seed, and makes it 
germinate. Some also hold the hypothesis, that the seed of an animal is in 
substance the foam of the blood, which being by the natural heat of the male 
agitated and shaken out is turned into foam, and deposited in the seminal veins. 
For Diogenes Apollionates will have it, that hence is derived the word 
aphrodisia. 
From all this it is therefore evident, that the essential principle of the 
human body is blood. The contents of the stomach, too, at first are milky, a 
coagulation of fluid; then the same coagulated substance is changed into blood; 
but when it is formed into a compact consistency in the womb, by the natural and 
warm spirit by which the embryo is fashioned, it becomes a living creature. 
Further also, the child after birth is nourished by the same blood. For the flow 
of milk is the product of the blood; and the source of nourishment is the milk; 
by which a woman is shown to have brought forth a child, and to be truly a 
mother, by which also she receives a potent charm of affection. Wherefore the 
Holy Spirit in the apostle, using the voice of the Lord, says mystically, "I 
have given you milk to drink." For if we have been regenerated unto Christ, He 
who has regenerated us nourishes us with His own milk, the Word; for it is 
proper that what has procreated should forthwith supply nourishment to that 
which has been procreated. And as the regeneration was conformably spiritual, so 
also was the nutriment of man spiritual. In all respects, therefore, and in all 
things, we are brought into union with Christ, into relationship through His 
blood, by which we are redeemed; and into sympathy, in consequence of the 
nourishment which flows from the Word; and into immortality, through His 
guidance:- "Among men the bringing up of children Often produces stronger 
impulses to love than the procreating of them." 
The same blood and milk of the Lord is therefore the symbol of the Lord's 
passion and teaching. Wherefore each of us babes is permitted to make our boast 
in the Lord, while we proclaim:- "Yet of a noble sire and noble blood I boast me 
sprung." 
And that milk is produced from blood by a change, is already clear; yet we 
may learn it from the flocks and herds. For these animals, in the time of the 
year which we call spring, when the air has more humidity, and the grass and 
meadows are juicy. and moist, are first filled with blood, as is shown by the 
distension of the veins of the swollen vessels; and from the blood the milk 
flows more copiously. But in summer again, the blood being burnt and dried up by 
the heat, prevents the change, and so they have less milk. 
Further, milk has a most natural affinity for water, as assuredly the 
spiritual washing has for the spiritual nutriment. Those, therefore, that 
swallow a little cold water, in addition to the above-mentioned milk, 
straightway feel benefit; for the milk is prevented from souring by its 
combination with water, not in consequence of any antipathy between them, but in 
consequence of the water taking kindly to the milk while it is undergoing 
digestion. 
And such as is the union of the Word with baptism, is the agreement of milk 
with water; for it receives it alone of all liquids, and admits of mixture with 
water, for the purpose of cleansing, as baptism for the remission of sins. And 
it is mixed naturally with honey also, and this for cleansing along with sweet 
nutriment. For the Word blended with love at once cures our passions and 
cleanses our sins; and the saying, "Sweeter than honey flowed the stream of 
speech," seems to me to have been spoken of the Word, who is honey. And prophecy 
oft extols Him "above honey and the honeycomb." 
Furthermore, milk is mixed with sweet wine; and the mixture is beneficial, as 
when suffering is mixed in the cup in order to immortality. For the milk is 
curdled by the wine, and separated, and whatever adulteration is in it is 
drained off. And in the same way, the spiritual communion of faith with 
suffering man, drawing off as serous matter the lusts of the flesh, commits man 
to eternity, along with those who are divine, immortalizing him. 
Further, many also use the fat of milk, called butter, for the lamp, plainly 
indicating by this enigma the abundant unction of the Word, since He alone it is 
who nourishes the infants, makes them grow, and enlightens them. Wherefore also 
the Scripture says respecting the Lord," He fed them with the produce of the 
fields; they sucked honey from the rock, and oil from the solid rock, butter of 
kine, and milk of sheep, with fat of lambs;" and what follows He gave them. But 
he that prophesies the birth of the child says: "Butter and honey shall He eat." 
And it occurs to me to wonder how some dare call themselves perfect and 
gnostics, with ideas of themselves above the apostle, inflated and boastful, 
when Paul even owned respecting himself, "Not that I have already attained, or 
am already perfect; but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which I 
am apprehended of Christ. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended: but 
this one thing I do, forgetting the things which are behind, and stretching 
forth to those that are before, I press toward the mark, for the prize of the 
high calling in Christ Jesus." And yet he reckons himself perfect, because he 
has been emancipated from his former life, and strives after the better life, 
not as perfect in knowledge, but as aspiring after perfection. Wherefore also he 
adds, "As many of us as are perfect, are thus minded," manifestly describing 
perfection as the renunciation of sin, and regeneration into the faith of the 
only perfect One, and forgetting our former sins. 
CHAP. VII.--WHO THE INSTRUCTOR IS, AND RESPECTING HIS INSTRUCTION. 
Since, then, we have shown that all of us are by Scripture called children; 
and not only so, but that we who have followed Christ are figuratively called 
babes; and that the Father of all alone is perfect, for the Son is in Him, and 
the Father is in the Son; it is time for us in due course to say who our 
Instructor is. 
He is called Jesus: Sometimes He calls Himself a shepherd, and says, "I am 
the good Shepherd." According to a metaphor drawn from shepherdS, who lead the 
sheep, is hereby understood the Instructor, who leads the children--the Shepherd 
who tends the babes. For the babes are simple, being figuratively described as 
sheep. "And they shall all," it is said, "be one flock, and one shepherd." The 
Word, then, who leads the children to salvation, is appropriately called the 
Instructor (Paedagogue). 
With the greatest clearness, accordingly, the Word has spoken respecting 
Himself by Hosea: "I am your Instructor." Now piety is instruction, being the 
learning of the service of God, and training in the knowledge of the truth, and 
right guidance which leads to heaven. And the word "instruction" is employed 
variously. For there is the instruction of him who is led and learns, and that 
of him who leads and teaches; and there is, thirdly, the guidance itself; and 
fourthly, what is taught, as the commandments enjoined. 
Now the instruction which is of God is the right direction of truth to the 
contemplation of God, and the exhibition of holy deeds in everlasting 
perseverance. 
As therefore the general directs the phalanx, consulting the safety of his 
soldiers, and the pilot steers the vessel, desiring to save the passengers; so 
also the Instructor guides the children to a saving course of conduct, through 
solicitude for us; and, in general, whatever we ask in accordance with reason 
from God to be done for us, will happen to those who believe in the Instructor. 
And just as the helmsman does not always yield to the winds, but sometimes, 
turning the prow towards them, opposes the whole force of the hurricanes; so the 
Instructor never yields to the blasts that blow in this world, nor commits the 
child to them like a vessel to make shipwreck on a wild and licentious course of 
life; but, wafted on by the favouring breeze of the Spirit of truth, stoutly 
holds on to the child's helm,--his ears, I mean,--until He bring him safe to 
anchor in the haven of heaven. 
What is called by men an ancestral custom passes away in a moment, but the 
divine guidance is a possession which abides for ever. 
They say that Phoenix was the instructor of Achilles, and Adrastus of the 
children of Croesus; and Leonides of Alexander, and Nausithous of Philip. But 
Phoenix was women-mad Adrastus was a fugitive. Leonides did not curtail the 
pride of Alexander, nor Nausithous reform the drunken Pellaean. No more was the 
Thracian Zopyrus able to check the fornication of Alcibiades; but Zopyrus was a 
bought slave, and Sicinnus, the tutor of the children of Themistocles, was a 
lazy domestic. They say also that he invented the Sicinnian dance. Those have 
not escaped our attention who are called royal instructors among the Persians; 
whom, in number four, the kings of the Persians select with the greatest care 
from all the Persians and set over their sons. But the children only learn the 
use of the bow, and on reaching maturity have sexual intercourse with sisters, 
and mothers, and women, wives and courtesans innumerable, practised in 
intercourse like the wild boars. 
But our Instructor is the holy God Jesus, the Word, who is the guide of all 
humanity. The loving God Himself is our Instructor. Somewhere in song the Holy 
Spirit says with regard to Him, "He provided sufficiently for the people in the 
wilderness. He led him about in the thirst of summer heat in a dry land, and 
instructed him, and kept him as the apple of His eye, as an eagle protects her 
nest, and shows her fond solicitude for her young, spreads abroad her wings, 
takes them, and bears them on her back. The Lord alone led them, and there was 
no strange god with them." Clearly, I trow, has the Scripture exhibited the 
Instructor in the account it gives of His guidance. 
Again, when He speaks in His own person, He confesses Himself to be the 
Instructor: "I am the Lord thy God, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt." 
Who, then, has the power of leading in and out? Is it not the Instructor? This 
was He who appeared to Abraham, and said to him, "I am thy God, be accepted 
before Me;" and in a way most befitting an instructor, forms him into a faithful 
child, saying, "And be blameless; and I will make My covenant between Me and 
thee, and try seed." There is the communication of the Instructor's friendship. 
And He most manifestly appears as Jacob's instructor. He says accordingly to 
him, "Lo, I am with thee, to keep thee in all the way in which thou shalt go; 
and I will bring thee back into this land: for I will not leave thee till I do 
what I have told thee." He is said, too, to have wrestled with Him. "And Jacob 
was left alone, and there wrestled with him a man (the Instructor) till the 
morning." This was the man who led, and brought, and wrestled with, and anointed 
the athlete Jacob against evil. Now that the Word was at once Jacob's trainer 
and the Instructor of humanity [appears from this]--"He asked," it is said, "His 
name, and said to him, Tell me what is Try name." And he said, "Why is it that 
thou askest My name?" For He reserved the new name for the new people--the babe; 
and was as yet unnamed, the Lord God not having yet become man. Yet Jacob called 
the name of the place, "Face of God." "For I have seen," he says, "God face to 
face; and my life is preserved." The face of God is the Word by whom God is 
manifested and made known. Then also was he named Israel, because he saw God the 
Lord. It was God, the Word, the Instructor, who said to him again afterwards, 
"Fear not to go down into Egypt." See how the Instructor follows the righteous 
man, and how He anoints the athlete, teaching him to trip up his antagonist. 
It is He also who teaches Moses to act as instructor. For the Lord says, "If 
any one sin before Me, him will I blot out of My book; but now, go and lead this 
people into the place which I told thee." Here He is the teacher of the art of 
instruction. For it was really the Lord that was the instructor of the ancient 
people by Moses; but He is the instructor of the new people by Himself, face to 
face. "For behold," He says to Moses, "My angel shall go before thee," 
representing the evangelical and commanding power of the Word, but guarding the 
Lord's prerogative. "In the day on which I will visit them," He says, "I will 
bring their sins on them; that is, on the day on which I will sit as judge I 
will render the recompense of their sins." For the same who is Instructor is 
judge, and judges those who disobey Him; and the loving Word will not pass over 
their transgression in silence. He reproves, that they may repent. For "the Lord 
willeth the repentance of the sinner rather than his death." And let us as 
babes, hearing of the sins of others, keep from similar transgressions, through 
dread of the threatening, that we may not have to undergo like sufferings. What, 
then, was the sin which they committed? "For in their wrath they slew men, and 
in their impetuosity they hamstrung bulls. Cursed be their anger." Who, then, 
would train us more lovingly than He? Formerly the older people had an old 
covenant, and the law disciplined the people with fear, and the Word was an 
angel; but to the fresh and new people has also been given a new covenant, and 
the Word has appeared, and fear is turned to love, and that mystic angel is 
born--Jesus. For this same Instructor said then, "Thou shalt fear the Lord God;" 
but to us He has addressed the exhortation, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God." 
Wherefore also this is enjoined on us: "Cease from your own works, from your old 
sins;" "Learn to do well;" "Depart from evil, and do good;" "Thou hast loved 
righteousness, and hated iniquity." This is my new covenant written in the old 
letter. The newness of the word must not, then, be made ground of reproach. But 
the Lord hath also said in Jeremiah: "Say not that I am a youth: before I formed 
thee in the belly I knew thee, and before I brought thee out of the womb I 
sanctified thee." Such allusions prophecy can make to us, destined in the eye of 
God to faith before the foundation of the world; but now babes, through the 
recent fulfilment of the will of God, according to which we are born now to 
calling and salvation. Wherefore also He adds, "I have set thee for a prophet to 
the nations," saying that he must prophesy, so that the appellation of "youth" 
should not become a reproach to those who are called babes. 
Now the law is ancient grace given through Moses by the Word. Wherefore also 
the Scripture says, "The law was given through Moses," not by Moses, but by the 
Word, and through Moses His servant. Wherefore it was only temporary; but 
eternal grace and truth were by Jesus Christ. Mark the expressions of Scripture: 
of the law only is it said "was given;" but truth being the grace of the Father, 
is the eternal work of the Word; and it is not said to be given, but to be by 
Jesus, without whom nothing was. Presently, therefore, Moses prophetically, 
giving place to the perfect Instructor the Word, predicts both the name and the 
office of Instructor, and committing to the people the commands of obedience, 
sets before them the Instructor. "A prophet," says he, "like Me shall God raise 
up to you of your brethren," pointing out Jesus the Son of God, by an allusion 
to Jesus the son of Nun; for the name of Jesus predicted in the law was a shadow 
of Christ. He adds, therefore, consulting the advantage of the people, "Him 
shall ye hear;" and, "The man who will not hear that Prophet," him He threatens. 
Such a name, then, he predicts as that of the Instructor, who is the author of 
salvation. Wherefore prophecy invests Him with a rod, a rod of discipline, of 
rule, of authority; that those whom the persuasive word heals not, the 
threatening may heal; and whom the threatening heals not, the rod may heal; and 
whom the rod heals not, the fire may devour. "There shall come forth," it is 
said, "a rod out of the root of Jesse." 
See the care, and wisdom, and power of the Instructor: "He shall not judge 
according to opinion, nor according to report; but He shall dispense judgment to 
the humble, and reprove the sinners of the earth." And by David: "The Lord 
instructing, hath instructed me, and not given me over to death." For to be 
chastised of the Lord, and instructed, is deliverance from death. And by the 
same prophet He says: 

"Thou shalt rule them with a rod of iron." Thus also the apostle, in the 
Epistle to the Corinthians, being moved, says, "What will ye? Shall I come unto 
you with a rod, or in love, in the spirit of meekness?" Also, "The Lord shall 
send the rod of strength out of Sion," He says by another prophet. And this same 
rod of instruction, "Thy rod and staff have comforted me," said some one else. 
Such is the power of the Instructor--sacred, soothing, saving. 
CHAP. VIII.--AGAINST THOSE WHO THINK THAT WHAT IS JUST IS NOT GOOD. 
At this stage some rise up, saying that the Lord, by reason of the rod, and 
threatening, and fear, is not good; misapprehending, as appears, the Scripture 
which says, "And he that feareth the Lord will turn to his heart;" and most of 
all, oblivious of His love, in that for us He became man. For more suitably to 
Him, the prophet prays in these words: "Remember us, for we are dust;" that: is, 
Sympathize with us; for Thou knowest from personal experience of suffering the 
weakness of the flesh. In this respect, therefore, the Lord the Instructor is 
most good and unimpeachable, sympathizing as He does from the exceeding 
greatness of His love with the nature of each man. "For there is nothing which 
the Lord hates." For assuredly He does not hate anything, and yet wish that 
which He hates to exist Nor does He wish anything not to exist, and yet become 
the cause of existence to that which He wishes not to exist. Nor does He wish 
anything not to exist which yet exists. If, then, the Word hates anything, He 
does not wish it to exist. But nothing exists, the cause of whose existence is 
not supplied by God. Nothing, then, is hated by God, nor yet by the Word. For 
both are one--that is, God. For He has said, "In the beginning the Word was in 
God, and the Word was God." If then He hates none of the things which He has 
made, it follows that He loves them. Much more than the rest, and with reason, 
will He love man, the noblest of all objects created by Him, and a God-loving 
being. Therefore God is loving; consequently the Word is loving. 
But he who loves anything wishes to do it good. And that which does good must 
be every way better than that which does not good. But nothing is better than 
the Good. The Good, then, does good. And God is admitted to be good. God 
therefore does good. And the Good, in virtue of its being good, does nothing 
else than do good. Consequently God does all good. And He does no good to man 
without caring for him, and He does not care far him without taking care of him. 
For that which does good purposely, is better than what does not good purposely. 
But nothing is better than God. And to do good purposely, is nothing else than 
to take care of man. God therefore cares for man, and takes care of him. And He 
shows this practically, in instructing him by the Word, who is the true 
coadjutor of God's love to man. But the good is not said to be good, on account 
of its being possessed of virtue; as also righteousness is not said to be good 
on account of its possessing virtue--for it is itself virtue.--but on account of 
its being in itself and by itself good. 
In another way the useful is called good, not on account of its pleasing, but 
of its doing good. All which, therefore, is righteousness, being a good thing, 
both as virtue and as desirable for its own sake, and not as giving pleasure; 
for it does not judge in order to win favour, but dispenses to each according to 
his merits. And the beneficial follows the useful. Righteousness, therefore, has 
characteristics corresponding to all the aspects in which goodness is examined, 
both possessing equal properties equally. And things which are characterized by 
equal properties are equal and similar to each other. Righteousness is therefore 
a good thing. 
"How then," say they, "if the Lord loves man, and is good, is He angry and 
punishes?" We must therefore treat of this point with all possible brevity; for 
this mode of treatment is advantageous to the right training of the children, 
occupying the place of a necessary help. For many of the passions are cured by 
punishment, and by the inculcation of the sterner precepts, as also by 
instruction in certain principles. For reproof is, as it were, the surgery of 
the passions of the soul; and the passions are, as it were, an abscess of the 
truth, which must be cut open by an incision of the lancet of reproof. 
Reproach is like the application of medicines, dissolving the callosities of 
the passions, and purging the impurities of the lewdness of the life; and in 
addition, reducing the excrescences of pride, restoring the patient to the 
healthy and true state of humanity. 
Admonition. is, as it were, the regimen of the diseased soul, prescribing 
what it must take, and forbidding what it must not. And all these tend to 
salvation and eternal health. 
Furthermore, the general of an army, by inflicting fines and corporeal 
punishments with chains and the extremest disgrace on offenders, and sometimes 
even by punishing individuals with death, aims at good, doing so for the 
admonition of the officers under him. 
Thus also He who is our great General, the Word, the Commander-in-chief of 
the universe by admonishing those who throw off the restraints of His law, that 
He may effect their release from the slavery, error, and captivity of the 
adversary, brings them peacefully to the sacred concord of citizenship. 
As, therefore in addition to persuasive discourse, there is the hortatory and 
the consolatory form; so also, in addition to the laudatory, there is the 
inculpatory and reproachful. And this latter constitutes the art of censure. 
Now censure is a mark of good-will, not of ill-will. For both he who is a 
friend and he who is not, reproach; but the enemy does so in scorn, the friend 
in kindness. It is not, then, from hatred that the Lord chides men; for He 
Himself suffered for us, whom He might have destroyed for our faults. For the 
Instructor also, in virtue of His being good, with consummate art glides into 
censure by rebuke; rousing the sluggishness of the mind by His sharp words as by 
a scourge. Again in turn He endeavours to exhort the same persons. For those who 
are not induced by praise are spurred on by censure; and those whom censure 
calls not forth to salvation being as dead, are by denunciation roused to the 
truth. "For the stripes and correction of wisdom are in all time." "For teaching 
a fool is gluing a potsherd; and sharpening to sense a hopeless blockhead is 
bringing earth to sensation."' Wherefore He adds plainly, "rousing the sleeper 
from deep sleep," which of all things else is likest death. 
Further, the Lord shows very clearly of HimSelf, when, describing 
figuratively His manifold and in many ways serviceable culture,--He says, "I am 
the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman." Then He adds, "Every branch in 
me that beareth not fruit He taketh away; and every branch that beareth fruit He 
pruneth, that it may bring forth more fruit." For the vine that is not pruned 
grows to wood. So also man. The Word--the knife--clears away the wanton shoots; 
compelling the impulses of the soul to fructify, not to indulge in lust. Now, 
reproof addressed to sinners has their salvation for its aim, the word being 
harmoniously adjusted to each one's conduct; now with tightened, now. with 
relaxed cords. Accordingly it was very plainly said by Moses," Be of good 
courage: God has drawn near to try you, that His fear may be among you, that ye 
sin not." And Plato, who had learned from this source, says beautifully: "For 
all who suffer punishment are in reality treated well, for they are benefited; 
since the spirit of those who are justly punished is improved." And if those who 
are corrected receive good at the hands of justice, and, according to Plato, 
what is just is acknowledged to be good, fear itself does good, and has been 
found to be for men's good. "For the soul that feareth the Lord shall live, for 
their hope is in Him who saveth them." And this same Word who inflicts 
punishment is judge; regarding whom Esaias also says, "The Lord has assigned Him 
to our sins," plainly as a corrector and reformer of sins. Wherefore He alone is 
able to forgive our iniquities, who has been appointed by the Father, Instructor 
of us all; He alone it is who is able to distinguish between disobedience and 
obedience. And while He threatens, He manifestly is unwilling to inflict evil to 
execute His threatenings; but by inspiring men with fear, He cuts off the 
approach to sin, and shows His love to man, still delaying, and declaring what 
they shall suffer if they continue sinners, and is not as a serpent, which the 
moment it fastens on its prey devours it. 
God, then, is good. And the Lord speaks many a time and oft before He 
proceeds to act. "For my arrows," He says, "will make an end of them; they shall 
be consumed with hunger, and be eaten by birds; and there shall be incurable 
tetanic incurvature. I will send the teeth of wild beasts upon them, with the 
rage of serpents creeping on the earth. Without, the sword shall make them 
childless; and out of their chambers shall be fear." For the Divine Being is not 
angry in the way that some think; but often restrains, and always exhorts 
humanity, and shows what ought to be done. And this is a good device, to terrify 
lest we sin. "For the fear of the Lord drives away sins, and he that is without 
fear cannot be justified," says the Scripture. And God does not inflict 
punishment from wrath, but for the ends of justice; since it is not expedient 
that justice should be neglected on our account. Each one of us, who sins, with 
his own free-will chooses punishment, and the blame lies with him who chooses. 
God is without blame. "But if our unrighteousness commend the righteousness of 
God, what shall we say? Is God unrighteous, who taketh vengeance? God forbid." 
He says, therefore, threatening," I will sharpen my sword, and my hand shall lay 
hold on judgment; and I will render justice to mine enemies, and requite those 
who hate me. I will make mine arrows drunk with blood, and my sword shall devour 
flesh from the blood of the wounded." It is clear, then, that those who are not 
at enmity with the truth, and do not hate the Word, will not hate their own 
salvation, but will escape the punishment of enmity. "The crown of wisdom," then 
as the book of Wisdom says, "is the fear of the Lord." Very clearly, therefore, 
by the prophet Amos has the Lord unfolded His method of dealing, saying, "I have 
overthrown you, as God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah; and ye shall be as a brand 
plucked from the fire: and yet ye have not returned unto me, saith the LORD." 
See how God, through His love of goodness, seeks repentance; and by means of 
the plan He pursues of threatening silently, shows His own love for man. "I will 
avert," He says, "My face from them, and show what shall happen to them." For 
where the face of the Lord looks, there is peace and rejoicing; but where it is 
averted, there is the introduction of evil. The Lord, accordingly, does not wish 
to look on evil things; for He is good. But on His looking away, evil arises 
spontaneously through human unbelief. "Behold, therefore," says Paul, "the 
goodness and severity of God: on them that fell severity; but upon thee, 
goodness, if thou continue in His goodness," that is, in faith in Christ. 
Now hatred of evil attends the good man, in virtue of His being in nature 
good. Wherefore I will grant that He punishes the disobedient (for punishment is 
for the good and advantage of him who is punished, for it is the correction of a 
refractory subject); but I will not grant that He wishes to take vengeance. 
Revenge is retribution for evil, imposed for the advantage of him who takes the 
revenge. He will not desire us to take revenge, who teaches us "to pray for 
those that despitefully use us." But that God is good, all willingly admit; and 
that the same God is just, I require not many more words to prove, after 
adducing the evangelical utterance of the Lord; He speaks of Him as one, "That 
they all may be one; as Thou, Father, art in Me, and I in Thee, that they also 
may be one in Us: that the world also may believe that Thou hast sent Me. And 
the glory which Thou hast given Me I have given them; that they may be one, as 
We are one: I in them, and Thou in Me, that they may be made perfect in one." 
God is one, and beyond the one and above the Monad itself. Wherefore also the 
particle "Thou," having a demonstrative emphasis, points out God, who alone 
truly is, "who was, and is, and is to come," in which three divisions of time 
the one name (o wn); "who is," has its place. And that He who 
alone is God is also alone and truly righteous, our Lord in the Gospel itself 
shall testify, saying "Father, I will that they also whom Thou hast given Me be 
with Me where I am; that they may behold My glory, which Thou hast given Me: For 
Thou lovedst Me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, the 
world hath not known Thee: but I have known Thee, and these have known that Thou 
hast sent Me. And I have declared to them Thy name, and will declare it." This 
is He "that visits the iniquities of the fathers upon the children, to them that 
hate Him, and shows mercy to those that love Him." For He who placed some "on 
the right hand, and others on the left," conceived as Father, being good, is 
called that which alone He is--" good;" but as He is the Son in the Father, 
being his Word, from their mutual relation, the name of power being measured by 
equality of love, He is called righteous. "He will judge," He says, "a man 
according to his works," --a good balance, even God having made known to us the 
face of righteousness in the person of Jesus, by whom also, as by even scales, 
we know God. Of this also the book of Wisdom plainly says, "For mercy and wrath 
are with Him, for He alone is Lord of both," Lord of propitiations, and pouring 
forth wrath according to the abundance of His mercy. "So also is His reproof." 
For the aim of mercy and of reproof is the salvation of those who are reproved. 
Now, that the God and Father of our Lord Jesus is good, the Word Himself will 
again avouch: "For He is kind to the unthankful and the evil;" and further, when 
He says," Be merciful, as your Father is merciful." Still further also He 
plainly says, "None is good, but My Father, who is in heaven." In addition to 
these, again He says, "My Father makes His sun to shine on all." Here it is to 
be noted that He proclaims His Father to be good, and to be the Creator. And 
that the Creator is just, is not disputed: And again he says," My Father sends 
rain on the just, and on the unjust." In respect of His sending rain, He is the 
Creator of the waters, and of the clouds. And in respect of His doing so on all, 
He holds an even balance justly and rightly. And as being good, He does so on 
just and unjust alike. 
Very clearly, then, we conclude Him to be one and the same God, thus. For the 
Holy Spirit has sung, "I will look to the heavens, the works of Thy hands;" and, 
"He who created the heavens dwells in the heavens;" and, "Heaven is Thy throne." 
And the Lord says in His prayer, "Our Father, who art in heaven." And the 
heavens belong to Him, who created the world. It is indisputable, then, that the 
Lord is the Son of the Creator. And if, the Creator above all is confessed to be 
just, and the Lord to be the Son of the Creator; then the Lord is the Son of Him 
who is just. Wherefore also Paul says, "But now the righteousness of God without 
the law is manifested;" and again, that you may better conceive of God, "even 
the righteousness of God by the faith of Jesus Christ upon all that believe; for 
there is no difference." And, witnessing further to the truth, he adds after a 
little, "through the forbearance of God, in order to show that He is just, and 
that Jesus is the justifier of him who is of faith." And that he knows that what 
is just is good, appears by his saying, "So that the law is holy, and the 
commandment holy, and just, and good," using both names to denote the same 
power. But "no one is good," except His Father. It is this same Father of His, 
then who being one is manifested by many powers And this was the import of the 
utterance, "No man knew the Father," who was Himself everything before the 
coming of the Son. So that it is veritably clear that the God of all is only one 
good, just Creator, and the Son in the Father, to whom be glory for ever and 
ever, Amen. But it is not inconsistent with the saving Word, to administer 
rebuke dictated by solicitude. For this is the medicine of the divine love to 
man, by which the blush of modesty breaks forth, and shame at sin supervenes. 
For if one must censure, it is necessary also to rebuke; when it is the time to 
wound the apathetic soul not mortally, but salutarily, securing exemption from 
everlasting death by a little pain. 
Great is the wisdom displayed in His instruction, and manifold the modes of 
His dealing in order to salvation. For the Instructor testifies to the good, and 
summons forth to better things those that are called; dissuades those that are 
hastening to do wrong from the attempt, and exhorts them to turn to a better 
life. For the one is not without testimony, when the other has been testified 
to; and the grace which proceeds from the testimony is very great. Besides, the 
feeling of anger (if it is proper to call His admonition anger) is full of love 
to man, God condescending to emotion on man's account; for whose sake also the 
Word of God became man. 
CHAP. IX.--THAT IT IS THE PREROGATIVE OF THE SAME POWER TO BE BENEFICENT AND 
TO PUNISH JUSTLY. ALSO THE MANNER OF THE INSTRUCTION OF THE LOGOS. 
With all His power, therefore, the Instructor of humanity, the Divine Word, 
using all the resources of wisdom, devotes Himself to the saving of the 
children, admonishing, upbraiding, blaming, chiding, reproving, threatening, 
healing, promising, favouring; and as it were, by many reins, curbing the 
irrational impulses of humanity. To speak briefly, therefore, the Lord acts 
towards us as we do towards our children. "Hast thou children? correct them," is 
the exhortation of the book of Wisdom, "and bend them from their youth. Hast 
thou daughters? attend to their body, and let not thy face brighten towards 
them," --although we love our children exceedingly, both sons and daughters, 
above aught else whatever. For those who speak with a man merely to please him, 
have little love for him, seeing they do not pain him; while those that speak 
for his good, though they inflict pain for the time, do him good for ever after. 
It is not immediate pleasure, but future enjoyment, that the Lord has in view. 
Let us now proceed to consider the mode of His loving discipline, with the 
aid of the prophetic testimony. 
Admonition, then, is the censure of loving care, and produces understanding. 
Such is the Instructor in His admonitions, as when He says in the Gospel, "How 
often would I have gathered thy children, as a bird gathers her young ones under 
her wings, and ye would not!" And again, the Scripture admonishes, saying, "And 
they committed adultery with stock and stone, and burnt incense to Baal." For it 
is a very great proof of His love, that, though knowing well the shamelessness 
of the people that had kicked and bounded away, He notwithstanding exhorts them 
to repentance, and says by Ezekiel, "Son of man, thou dwellest in the midst of 
scorpions; nevertheless, speak to them, if peradventure they will hear." 
Further, to Moses He says, "Go and tell Pharaoh to send My people forth; but I 
know that he will not send them forth." For He shows both things: both His 
divinity in His foreknowledge of what would take place, and His love in 
affording an opportunity for repentance to the self-determination of the soul. 
He admonishes also by Esaias, in His care for the people, when He says, "This 
people honour Me with their lips, but their heart is far from Me." What follows 
is reproving censure: "In vain do they worship 
Me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men." Here His loving care, 
having shown their sin, shows salvation side by side. 
Upbraiding is censure on account of what is base, conciliating to what is 
noble. This is shown by Jeremiah: "They were female-mad horses; each one neighed 
after his neighbour's wife. Shall I not visit for these things? saith the LORD: 
shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?" He everywhere 
interweaves fear, because "the fear of the LORD is the beginning of sense." And 
again, by Hosea, He says, "Shall I not visit them? for they themselves were 
mingled with harlots, and sacrificed with the initiated; and the people that 
understood embraced a harlot." He shows their offence to be clearer, by 
declaring that they understood, and thus sinned wilfully. 
Understanding is the eye of the soul; wherefore also Israel means, "he that 
sees God"--that is, he that understands God. 
Complaint is censure of those who are regarded as despising or neglecting. He 
employs this form when He says by Esaias: "Hear, O heaven; and give ear, O 
earth: for the LORD hath spoken, I have begotten and brought up children, but 
they have disregarded Me. The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's 
crib: but Israel hath not known Me." For how shall we not regard it fearful, if 
he that knows God, shall not recognise the Lord; but while the ox and the ass, 
stupid and foolish animals, will know him who feeds them, Israel is found to be 
more irrational than these? And having, by Jeremiah, complained against the 
people on many grounds, He adds: "And they have forsaken Me, saith the LORD." 
Invective is a reproachful upbraiding, or chiding censure. This mode of 
treatment the Instructor employs in Isaiah, when He says, "Woe to you, children 
revolters. Thus saith the LORD, Ye have taken counsel, but not by Me; and made 
compacts, but not by My Spirit." He uses the very bitter mordant of fear in each 
case repressing the people, and at the same time turning them to salvation; as 
also wool that is undergoing the process of dyeing is wont to be previously 
treated with mordants, in order to prepare it for taking on a fast colour. 
Reproof is the bringing forward of sin, laying it before one. This form of 
instruction He employs as in the highest degree necessary, by reason of the 
feebleness of the faith of many. For He says by Esaias, "Ye have forsaken the 
LORD, and have provoked the Holy One of Israel to anger." And He says also by 
Jeremiah: "Heaven was astonished at this, and the earth shuddered exceedingly. 
For My people have committed two evils; they have forsaken Me, the fountain of 
living waters, and have hewn out to themselves broken cisterns, which will not 
be able to hold water." And again, by the same: "Jerusalem hath sinned a sin; 
therefore it became commotion. All that glorified her dishonoured her, when they 
saw her baseness." And He uses the bitter and biting language of reproof in His 
consolations by Solomon, tacitly alluding to the love for children that 
characterizes His instruction: "My son, despise not thou the chastening of the 
LORD; nor faint when thou art rebuked of Him: for whom the LORD loveth He 
chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom He receiveth;" "For a man who is a 
sinner escapes reproof." Consequently, therefore, the Scripture says, "Let the 
righteous reprove and correct me; but let not the oil of the sinner anoint my 
head." 
Bringing one to his senses (frenwsis) is censure, which makes a man 
think. Neither from this form of instruction does he abstain, but says by 
Jeremiah, "How long shall I cry, and you not hear? So your ears are 
uncircumcised." O blessed forbearance! And again, by the same: "All the heathen 
are uncircumcised, but this people is uncircumcised in heart:" "for the people 
are disobedient; children," says He, "in whom is not faith." 
Visitation is severe rebuke. He uses this species in the Gospel: "O 
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, that killest the prophets, and stonest them that are sent 
unto thee!" The reduplication of the name gives strength to the rebuke. For he 
that knows God, how does he persecute God's servants? Wherefore He says, "Your 
house is left desolate; for I say unto you, Henceforth ye shall not see Me, till 
ye shall say, Blessed is He that cometh in the name of the Lord." For if you do 
not receive His love, ye shall know His power. 
Denunciation is vehement speech. And He employs denunciation as medicine, by 
Isaiah, saying, "Ah, sinful nation, lawless sons, people full of sins, wicked 
seed!" And in the Gospel by John He says, "Serpents, brood of vipers." 

Accusation is censure of wrong-doers. This mode of instruction He employs by 
David, when He says: "The people whom I knew not served me, and at the hearing 
of the ear obeyed me. Sons of strangers lied to me, and halted from their ways." 
And by Jeremiah: "And I gave her a writing of divorcement, and covenant-breaking 
Judah feared not." And again: "And the house of Israel disregarded Me; and the 
house of Judah lied to the LORD." 
Bewailing one's fate is latent censure, and by artful aid ministers salvation 
as under a veil. He made use of this by Jeremiah: "How did the city sit solitary 
that was full of people! She that ruled over territories became as a widow; she 
came under tribute; weeping, she wept in the night." 
Objurgation is objurgatory censure. Of this help the Divine Instructor made 
use by Jeremiah, saying, "Thou hadst a whore's forehead; thou wast shameless 
towards all; and didst not call me to the house, who am thy father, and lord of 
thy virginity." "And a fair and graceful harlot skilled in enchanted potions." 
With consummate art, after applying to the virgin the opprobrious name of 
whoredom, He thereupon calls her back to an honourable life by filling her with 
shame. 
Indignation is a rightful upbraiding; or upbraiding on account of ways 
exalted above what is right. In this way He instructed by Moses, when He said, 
"Faulty children, a generation crooked and perverse, do ye thus requite the 
LORD? This people is foolish, and not wise. Is not this thy father who acquired 
thee?" He says also by Isaiah, "Thy princes are disobedient, companions of 
thieves, loving gifts, following after rewards, not judging the orphans." 
In fine, the system He pursues to inspire fear is the source of salvation. 
And it is the prerogative of goodness to save: "The mercy of the Lord is on all 
flesh, while He reproves, corrects, and teaches as a shepherd His flock. He 
pities those who receive His instruction, and those who eagerly seek union with 
Him." And with such guidance He guarded the six hundred thousand footmen that 
were brought together in the hardness of heart in which they were found; 
scourging, pitying, striking, healing, in compassion and discipline: "For 
according to the greatness of His mercy, so is His rebuke." For it is indeed 
noble not to sin; but it is good also for the sinner to repent; just as it is 
best to be always in good health, but well to recover from disease. So He 
commands by Solomon: "Strike thou thy son with the rod, that thou mayest deliver 
his soul from death." And again: "Abstain not from chastising thy son, but 
correct him with the rod; for he will not die." 
For reproof and rebuke, as also the original term implies, are the stripes of 
the soul, chastizing sins, preventing death, and leading to self-control those 
carried away to licentiousness. Thus also Plato, knowing reproof to be the 
greatest power for reformation, and the most sovereign purification, in 
accordance with what has been said, observes, "that he who is in the highest 
degree impure is uninstructed and base, by reason of his being unreproved in 
those respects in which he who is destined to be truly happy ought to be purest 
and best." 
For if rulers are not a terror to a good work, how shall God, who is by 
nature good, be a terror to him who sins not? "If thou doest evil, be afraid," 
says the apostle. Wherefore the apostle himself also in every case uses 
stringent language to the Churches, after the Lord's example; and conscious of 
his own boldness, and of the weakness of his hearers, he says to the Galatians: 
"Am I your enemy, because I tell you the truth?" Thus also people in health do 
not require a physician, do not require him as long as they are strong; but 
those who are ill need his skill. Thus also we who in our lives are ill of 
shameful lusts and reprehensible excesses, and other inflammatory effects of the 
passions, need the Saviour. And He administers not only mild, but also stringent 
medicines. The bitter roots of fear then arrest the eating sores of our sins. 
Wherefore also fear is salutary, if bitter. Sick, we truly stand in need of the 
Saviour; having wandered, of one to guide us; blind, of one to lead us to the 
light; thirsty, "of the fountain of life, of which whosoever partakes, shall no 
longer thirst;" dead, we need life; sheep, we need a shepherd; we who are 
children need a tutor, while universal humanity stands in need of Jesus; so that 
we may not continue intractable and sinners to the end, and thus fall into 
condemnation, but may be separated from the chaff, and stored up in the paternal 
garner. "For the fan is in the Lord's hand, by which the chaff due to the fire 
is separated from the wheat." You may learn, if you will, the crowning wisdom of 
the all-holy Shepherd and Instructor, of the omnipotent and paternal Word, when 
He figuratively represents Himself as the Shepherd of the sheep. And He is the 
Tutor of the children. He says therefore by Ezekiel, directing His discourse to 
the elders, and setting before them a salutary description of His wise 
solicitude: "And that which is lame I will bind up, and that which is sick I 
will heal, and that which has wandered I will turn back; and I will feed them on 
my holy mountain." Such are the promises of the good Shepherd. 
Feed us, the children, as sheep. Yea, Master, fill us with righteousness, 
Thine own pasture; yea, O Instructor, feed us on Thy holy mountain the Church, 
which towers aloft, which is above the clouds, which touches heaven. "And I will 
be," He says, "their Shepherd," and will be near them, as the garment to their 
skin. He wishes to save my flesh by enveloping it in the robe of immortality, 
and He hath anointed my body. "They shall call Me," He says, "and I will say, 
Here am I." Thou didst hear sooner than I expected, Master. "And if they pass 
over, they shall not slip," saith the Lord. For we who are passing over to 
immortality shall not fall into corruption, for He shall sustain us. For so He 
has said, and so He has willed. Such is our Instructor, righteously good. "I 
came not," He says, "to be ministered unto, but to minister." Wherefore He is 
introduced in the Gospel "wearied," because toiling for us, and promising "to 
give His life a ransom for many." For him alone who does so He owns to be the 
good shepherd. Generous, therefore, is He who gives for us the greatest of all 
gifts, His own life; and beneficent exceedingly, and loving to men, in that, 
when He might have been Lord, He wished to be a brother man; and so good was He 
that He died for us. 
Further, His righteousness cried, "If ye come straight to me, I also will 
come straight to you but if ye walk crooked, I also will walk crooked saith the 
Lord of hosts;" meaning by the crooked ways the chastisements of sinners. For 
the straight and natural way which is indicated by the Iota of the name of Jesus 
is His goodness, which is firm and sure towards those who have believed at 
hearing: "When I called, ye obeyed not, saith the Lord; but set at nought my 
counsels, and heeded not my reproofs." Thus the Lord's reproof is most 
beneficial. David also says of them, "A perverse and provoking race; a race 
which set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not faithful with God: 
they kept not the covenant of God, and would not walk in His law." 
Such are the causes of provocation for which the Judge comes to inflict 
punishment on those that would not choose a life of goodness. Wherefore also 
afterwards He assailed them more roughly; in order, if possible, to drag them 
back from their impetuous rush towards death. He therefore tells by David the 
most manifest cause of the threatening: "They believed not in His wonderful 
works. When He slew them, they sought after Him, and turned and inquired early 
after God; and remembered that God was their Helper, and God the Most High their 
Redeemer." Thus He knew that they turned for fear, while they despised His love: 
for, for the most part, that goodness which is always mild is despised; but He 
who admonishes by the loving fear of righteousness is reverenced. 
There is a twofold species of fear, the one of which is accompanied with 
reverence, such as citizens show towards good rulers, and we towards God, as 
also right-minded children towards their fathers. "For an unbroken horse turns 
out unmanageable, and a son who is let take his own way turns out reckless." The 
other species of fear is accompanied with hatred, which slaves feel towards hard 
masters, and the Hebrews felt, who made God a master, not a father. And as far 
as piety is concerned, that which is voluntary and spontaneous differs much, nay 
entirely, from what is forced. "For He," it iS said, "is merciful; He will heal 
their sins, and not destroy them, and fully turn away His anger, and not kindle 
all His wrath." See how the justice of the Instructor, which deals in rebukes, 
is shown; and the goodness of God, which deals in compassions. Wherefore 
David--that is, the Spirit by him--embracing them both, sings of God Himself, 
"Justice and judgment are the preparation of His throne: mercy and truth shall 
go before Thy face." He declares that it belongs to the same power both to judge 
and to do good. For there is power over both together, and judgment separates 
that which is just from its opposite. And He who is truly God is just and good; 
who is Himself all, and all is He; for He is God, the only God. 
For as the mirror is not evil to an ugly man because it shows him what like 
he is; and as the physician is not evil to the sick man because he tells him of 
his fever,--for the physician is not the cause of the fever, but only points out 
the fever;--so neither is He, that reproves, ill-disposed towards him who is 
diseased in soul. For He does not put the transgressions on him, but only shows 
the sins which are there; in order to turn him away from similar practices. So 
God is good on His own account, and just also on ours, and He is just because 
He is good. And His justice is shown to us by His own Word from there from 
above, whence the Father was. For before He became Creator He was God; He was 
good. And therefore He wished to be Creator and Father. And the nature of all 
that love was the source of righteousness--the cause, too, of His lighting up 
His sun, and sending down His own Son. And He first announced the good 
righteousness that is from heaven, when He said, "No man knoweth the Son, but 
the Father; nor the Father, but the Son." This mutual and reciprocal knowledge 
is the symbol of primeval justice. Then justice came down to men both in the 
letter and in the body, in the Word and in the law, constraining humanity to 
saving repentance; for it was good. But do you not obey God? Then blame 
yourself, who drag to yourself the judge. 
CHAP. X.--THAT THE SAME GOD, BY THE SAME WORD, RESTRAINS FROM SIN BY 
THREATENING, AND SAVES HUMANITY BY EXHORTING. 
If, then, we have shown that the plan of dealing stringently with humanity is 
good and salutary, and necessarily adopted by the Word, and conducive to 
repentance and the prevention of sins; we shall have now to look in order at the 
mildness of the Word. For He has been demonstrated to be just. He sets before us 
His own inclinations which invite to salvation; by which, in accordance with the 
Father's will, He wishes to make known to us the good and the useful. Consider 
these. The good (to kalon) belongs to the panegyrical form of 
speech, the useful to the persuasive. For the hortatory and the de-hortatory are 
a form of the persuasive, and the laudatory and inculpatory of the panegyrical. 
For the persuasive style of sentence in one form becomes hortatory, and in 
another dehortatory. So also the panegyrical in one form becomes inculpatory, 
and in another laudatory. And in these exercises the Instructor, the Just One, 
who has proposed our advantage as His aim, is chiefly occupied. But the 
inculpatory and dehortatory forms of speech have been already shown us; and we 
must now handle the persuasive and the laudatory, and, as on a beam, balance the 
equal scales of justice. The exhortation to what is useful, the Instructor 
employs by Solomon, to the following effect: "I exhort you, O men; and I utter 
my voice to the sons of men. Hear me; for I will speak of excellent things; " 
and so on. And He counsels what is salutary: for counsel has for its end, 
choosing or refusing a certain course; as He does by David, when He says, 
"Blessed is the man who walketh not in the counsels of the ungodly, and standeth 
not in the way of sinners, and sitteth not in the chair of pestilences; but his 
will is in the law of the LORD." And there are three departments of counsel: 
That which takes examples from past times; as what the Hebrews suffered when 
they worshipped the golden calf, and what they suffered when they committed 
fornication, and the like. The second, whose meaning is understood from the 
present times, as being apprehended by perception; as it was said to those who 
asked the Lord, "If He was the Christ, or shall we wait for another? Go and tell 
John, the blind receive their sight, the deaf hear, the lepers are cleansed, the 
dead are raised up; and blessed is he who shall not be offended in Me." Such was 
that which David aid when he prophesied, "As we have heard, so have we seen." 
And the third department of counsel consists of what is future, by which we are 
bidden guard against what is to happen; as also that was said, "They that fall 
into sins shall be cast into outer darkness, where there shall be wailing and 
gnashing of teeth," and the like. So that from these things it is clear that the 
Lord, going the round of all the methods of curative treatment, calls humanity 
to salvation. 
By encouragement He assuages sins, reducing lust, and at the same time 
inspiring hope for salvation. For He says by Ezekiel, "If ye return with your 
whole heart, and say, Father, I will hear you, as a holy people." And again He 
says, "Come all to Me, who labour, and are heavy laden, and I will give you 
rest;" and that which is added the Lord speaks in His own person. And very 
clearly He calls to goodness by Solomon, when He says, "Blessed is the man who 
hath found wisdom, and the mortal who hath found understanding." "For the good 
is found by him who seeks it, and is wont to be seen by him who has found it." 
By Jeremiah, too, He sets forth prudence, when he says, "Blessed are we, Israel; 
for what is pleasing to God is known by us; --and it is known by the Word, by 
whom we are blessed and wise. For wisdom and knowledge are mentioned by the same 
prophet, when he says, "Hear, O Israel, the commandments of life, and give ear 
to know understanding." By Moses, too, by reason of the love He has to man, He 
promises a gift to those who hasten to salvation. For He says, "And I will bring 
you into the good land, which the Lord sware to your fathers. " And further, 
"And I will bring you into the holy mountain, and make you glad," He says by 
Isaiah. And still another form of instruction is benediction. "And blessed is 
he," He saith by David, "who has not sinned; and he shall be as the tree planted 
near the channels of the waters, which will yield its fruit in its season, and 
his leaf shall not wither " (by this He made an allusion to the resurrection); 
"and whatsoever he shall do shall prosper with him." Such He wishes us to be, 
that we may be blessed. Again, showing the opposite scale of the balance of 
justice, He says, "But not so the ungodly--not so; but as the dust which the 
wind sweeps away from the face of the earth." By showing the punishment of 
sinners, and their easy dispersion, and carrying off by the wind, the Instructor 
dissuades from crime by means of punishment; and by holding up the merited 
penalty, shows the benignity of His beneficence in the most skilful way, in 
order that we may possess and enjoy its blessings. He invites us to knowledge 
also, when He says by Jeremiah, "Hadst thou walked in the way of God, thou 
wouldst have dwelt for ever in peace; " for, exhibiting there the reward of 
knowledge, He calls the wise to the love of it. And, granting pardon to him who 
has erred, He says, "Turn, turn, as a grape-gatherer to his basket." Do you see 
the goodness of justice, in that it counsels to repentance? And still further, 
by Jeremiah, He enlightens in the truth those who have erred. "Thus saith the 
LORD, Stand in the ways, and look, and ask for the eternal paths of the Lord, 
what is the good path, and walk in it, and ye shall find purification for your 
souls." And in order to promote our salvation, He leads us to repentance. 
Wherefore He says, "If thou repent, the LORD will purify thy heart, and the 
heart of thy seed." We might have adduced, as supporters on this question, the 
philosophers who say that only the perfect man is worthy of praise, and the bad 
man of blame. But since some slander beatitude, as neither itself taking any 
trouble, nor giving any to any one else, thus not understanding its love to man; 
on their account, and on account of those who do not associate justice with 
goodness, the following remarks are added. For it were a legitimate inference to 
say, that rebuke and censure are suitable to men, since they say that all men 
are bad; but God alone is wise, from whom cometh wisdom, and alone perfect, and 
therefore alone worthy of praise. But I do not employ such language. I say, 
then, that praise or blame, or whatever resembles praise or blame, are medicines 
most essential of all to men. Some are ill to cure, and, like iron, are wrought 
into shape with fire, and hammer, and anvil, that is, with threatening, and 
reproof, and chastisement; while others, cleaving to faith itself, as 
self-taught, and as acting of their own free-will, grow by praise: "For virtue 
that is praised Grows like a tree." 
And comprehending this, as it seems to me, the Samian Pythagoras gives the 
injunction :- "When you have done base things, rebuke yourself; But when you 
have done good things, be glad." 
Chiding is also called admonishing; and the etymology of admonishing 
(nouqethsis) is (nou enqematismos) putting of understanding 
into one; so that rebuking is bringing one to one's senses. 
But there are myriads of injunctions to be found, whose aim is the attainment 
of what is good, and the avoidance of what is evil. "For there is no peace to 
the wicked, saith the LORD." Wherefore by Solomon He commands the children to 
beware: "My son, let not sinners deceive thee, and go not after their ways; and 
go not, if they entice thee, saying, Come with us, share with us in innocent 
blood, and let us hide unjustly the righteous man in the earth; let us put him 
out of sight, all alive as he is into Hades." This is accordingly likewise a 
prediction concerning the Lord's passion. And by Ezekiel, the life supplies 
commandments: "The soul that sinneth shall die; but he that doeth righteousness 
shall be righteous. He eateth not upon the mountains, and hath not set his eyes 
on the devices of the house of Israel, and will not defile his neighbour's wife, 
and will not approach to a woman in her separation, and will not oppress a man, 
and will restore the debtor's pledge, and will not take plunder: he will give 
his bread to the hungry, and clothe the naked. His money he will not give on 
usury, and will not take interest; and he will turn away his hand from wrong, 
and will execute righteous judgment between a man and his neighbour. He has 
walked in my statutes, and kept my judgments to do them. This is a righteous 
man. He shall surely live, saith the Lord." These words contain a description of 
the conduct of Christians, a notable exhortation to the blessed life, which is 
the reward of a life of goodness--everlasting life. 

CHAP, XI.--THAT THE WORD INSTRUCTED BY THE LAW AND THE PROPHETS. 
The mode of His love and His instruction we have shown as we could. Wherefore 
He Himself, declaring Himself very beautifully, likened Himself to a grain of 
mustard-seed; and pointed out the spirituality of the word that is sown, and the 
productiveness of its nature, and the magnificence and conspicuousness of the 
power of the word; and besides, intimated that the pungency and the purifying 
virtue of punishment are profitable on account of its sharpness. By the little 
grain, as it is figuratively called, He bestows salvation on all humanity 
abundantly. Honey, being very sweet, generates bile, as goodness begets 
contempt, which is the cause of sinning. But mustard lessens bile, that is, 
anger, and stops inflammation, that is, pride. From which Word springs the true 
health of the soul, and its eternal happy temperament (eukrasia). 
Accordingly, of old He instructed by Moses, and then by the prophets. Moses, 
too, was a prophet. For the law is the training of refractory children. "Having 
feasted to the full," accordingly, it is said, "they rose up to play; " 
senseless repletion with victuals being called kortasma (fodder), not 
brpma (food). And when, having senselessly filled themselves, they 
senselessly played; on that account the law was given them, and terror ensued 
for the prevention of transgressions and for the promotion of right actions, 
securing attention, and so winning to obedience to the true Instructor, being 
one and the same Word, and reducing to conformity with the urgent demands of the 
law. For Paul says that it was given to be a "schoolmaster to bring us to 
Christ." So that from this it is clear, that one alone, true, good, just, in the 
image and likeness of the Father, His Son Jesus, the Word of God, is our 
Instructor; to whom God hath entrusted us, as an affectionate father commits his 
children to a worthy tutor, expressly charging us, "This is my beloved Son: hear 
Him." The divine Instructor is trustworthy, adorned as He is with three of the 
fairest ornaments--knowledge, benevolence, and authority of utterance;--with 
knowledge, for He is the paternal wisdom: "All Wisdom is from the Lord, and with 
Him for evermore;"--with authority of utterance, for He is God and Creator: "For 
all things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made;" --and with 
benevolence, for He alone gave Himself a sacrifice for us: "For the good 
Shepherd giveth His life for the sheep; " and He has so given it. Now, 
benevolence is nothing but wishing to do good to one's neighbour for his sake. 
CHAP. XII.--THE INSTRUCTOR CHARACTERIZED BY THE SEVERITY AND BENIGNITY OF 
PATERNAL AFFECTION. 
Having now accomplished those things, it were a fitting sequel that our 
instructor Jesus should draw for us the model of the true life, and train 
humanity in Christ. 
Nor is the cast and character of the life He enjoins very formidable; nor is 
it made altogether easy by reason of His benignity. He enjoins His commands, and 
at the same time gives them such a character that they may be accomplished. 
The view I take is, that He Himself formed man of the dust, and regenerated 
him by water; and made him grow by his Spirit; and trained him by His word to 
adoption and salvation, directing him by sacred precepts; in order that, 
transforming earth-born man into a holy and heavenly being by His advent, He 
might fulfil to the utmost that divine utterance, "Let Us make man in Our own 
image and likeness." And, in truth, Christ became the perfect realization of 
what God spake; and the rest of humanity is conceived as being created merely in 
His image. 
But let us, O children of the good Father--nurslings of the good 
Instructor--fulfil the Father's will, listen to the Word, and take on the 
impress of the truly saving life of our Saviour; and meditating on the heavenly 
mode of life according to which we have been deified, let us anoint ourselves 
with the perennial immortal bloom of gladness--that ointment of sweet 
fragrance--having a clear example of immortality in the walk and conversation of 
the Lord; and following the footsteps of God, to whom alone it belongs to 
consider, and whose care it is to see to, the way and manner in which the life 
of men may be made more healthy. Besides, He makes preparation for a 
self-sufficing mode of life, for simplicity, and for girding up our loins, and 
for free and unimpeded readiness of our journey; in order to the attainment of 
an eternity of beatitude, teaching each one of us to be his own storehouse. For 
He says, "Take no anxious thought for to-morrow," meaning that the man who has 
devoted himself to Christ ought to be sufficient to himself, and servant to 
himself, and moreover lead a life which provides for each day by itself. For it 
is not in war, but in peace, that we are trained. War needs great preparation, 
and luxury craves profusion; but peace and love, simple and quiet sisters, 
require no arms nor excessive preparation. The Word is their sustenance. 
Our superintendence in instruction and discipline is the office of the Word, 
from whom we learn frugality and humility, and all that pertains to love of 
truth, love of man, and love of excellence. And so, in a word, being assimilated 
to God by a participation in moral excellence, we must not retrograde into 
carelessness and sloth. But labour, and faint not. Thou shalt be what thou dost 
not hope, and canst not conjecture. And as there is one mode of training for 
philosophers, another for orators, and another for athletes; so is there a 
generous disposition, suitable to the choice that is set upon moral loveliness, 
resulting from the training of Christ. And in the case of those who have been 
trained according to this influence, their gait in walking, their sitting at 
table, their food, their sleep, their going to bed, their regimen, and the rest 
of their mode of life, acquire a superior dignity. For such a training as is 
pursued by the Word is not overstrained, but is of the right tension. Thus, 
therefore, the Word has been called also the Saviour, seeing He has found out 
for men those rational medicines which produce vigour of the senses and 
salvation; and devotes Himself to watching for the favourable moment, reproving 
evil, exposing the causes of evil affections, and striking at the roots of 
irrational lusts, pointing out what we ought to abstain from, and supplying all 
the antidotes of salvation to those who are diseased. For the greatest and most 
regal work of God is the salvation of humanity. The sick are vexed at a 
physician, who gives no advice bearing on their restoration to health. But how 
shall we not acknowledge the highest gratitude to the divine Instructor, who is 
not silent, who omits not those threatenings that point towards destruction, but 
discloses them, and cuts off the impulses that tend to them; and who 
indoctrinates in those counsels which result in the true way of living? We must 
confess, therefore, the deepest obligations to Him. For what else do we say is 
incumbent on the rational creature--I mean man--than the contemplation of the 
Divine? I say, too, that it is requisite to contemplate human nature, and to 
live as the truth directs, and to admire the Instructor and His injunctions, as 
suitable and harmonious to each other. According to which image also we ought, 
conforming ourselves to the Instructor, and making the word and our deeds agree, 
to live a real life. 
CHAP. XIII.--VIRTUE RATIONAL, SIN IRRATIONAL. 
Everything that is contrary to right reason is sin. Accordingly, therefore, 
the philosophers think fit to define the most generic passions thus: lust, as 
desire disobedient to reason; fear, as weakness disobedient to reason; pleasure, 
as an elation of the spirit disobedient to reason. If, then, disobedience in 
reference to reason is the generating cause of sin, how shall we escape the 
conclusion, that obedience to reason--the Word--which we call faith, will of 
necessity be the efficacious cause of duty? For virtue itself is a state of the 
soul rendered harmonious by reason in respect to the whole life. Nay, to crown 
all, philosophy itself is pronounced to be the cultivation of right reason; so 
that, necessarily, whatever is done through error of reason is transgression, 
and is rightly called, (amarthma) sin. Since, then, the first man sinned 
and disobeyed God, it is said, "And man became like to the beasts:" being 
rightly regarded as irrational, he is likened to the beasts. Whence Wisdom says: 
"The horse for covering; the libidinous and the adulturer is become like to an 
irrational beast." Wherefore also it is added: "He neighs, whoever may be 
sitting on him." The man, it is meant, no longer speaks; for he who transgresses 
against reason is no longer rational, but an irrational animal, given up to 
lusts by which he is ridden (as a horse by his rider). 
But that which is done right, in obedience to reason, the followers of the 
Stoics call proshkon and kaqhkon, that is, incumbent and fitting. 
What is fitting is incumbent. And obedience is founded on commands. And these 
being, as they are, the same as counsels--having truth for their aim, train up 
to the ultimate goal of aspiration, which is conceived of as the end 
(telos). And the end of piety is eternal rest in God. And the beginning 
of eternity is our end. The right operation of piety perfects duty by works; 
whence, according to just reasoning, duties consist in actions, not in sayings. 
And Christian conduct is the Operation of the rational soul in accordance with a 
correct judgment and aspiration after the truth, which attains its destined end 
through the body, the soul's consort and ally. Virtue is a will in conformity to 
God and Christ in life, rightly adjusted to life everlasting. For the life of 
Christians, in which we are now trained, is a system of reasonable actions--that 
is, of those things taught by the Word--an unfailing energy which we have called 
faith. The system is the commandments of the Lord, which, being divine statues 
and spiritual counsels, have been written for ourselves, being adapted for 
ourselves and our neighbours. Moreover, they turn back on us, as the ball 
rebounds on him that throws it by the repercussion. Whence also duties are 
essential for divine discipline, as being enjoined by God, and furnished for our 
salvation. And since, of those things which are necessary, some relate only to 
life here, and others, which relate to the blessed life yonder, wing us for 
flight hence; so, in an analogous manner, of duties, some are ordained with 
reference to life, others for the blessed life. The commandments issued with 
respect to natural life are published to the multitude; but those that are 
suited for living well, and from which eternal life springs, we have to 
consider, as in a sketch, as we read them out of the Scriptures. 


