
Clement of Alexandria












EXHORTATION TO THE HEATHEN 
CHAP. I.--EXHORTATION TO ABANDON THE IMPIOUS MYSTERIES OF IDOLATRY FOR THE 
ADORATION OF THE DIVINE WORD AND GOD THE FATHER. 
AMPHION of Thebes and Arion of Methymna were both minstrels, and both were 
renowned in story. They are celebrated in song to this day in the chorus of the 
Greeks; the one for having allured the fishes, and the other for having 
surrounded Thebes with walls by the power of music. Another, a Thracian, a 
cunning master of his art (he also is the subject of a Hellenic legend), tamed 
the wild beasts by the mere might of song; and transplanted trees--oaks--by 
music. I might tell you also the story of another, a brother to these--the 
subject of a myth, and a minstrel--Eunomos the Locrian and the Pythic 
grasshopper. A solemn Hellenic assembly had met at Pytho, to celebrate the death 
of the Pythic serpent, when Eunomos sang the reptile's epitaph. Whether his ode 
was a hymn in praise of the serpent, or a dirge, I am not able to say. But there 
was a contest, and Eunomos was playing the lyre in the summer time: it was when 
the grasshoppers, warmed by the sun, were chirping beneath the leaves along the 
hills; but they were singing not to that dead dragon, but to God All-wise,--a 
lay unfettered by rule, better than the numbers of Eunomos. The Locrian breaks a 
string. The grasshopper sprang on the neck of the instrument, and sang on it as 
on a branch; and the minstrel, adapting his strain to the grasshopper's song, 
made up for the want of the missing string. The grasshopper then was attracted 
by the song of Eunomos, as the fable represents, according to which also a 
brazen statue of Eunomos with his lyre, and the Locrian's ally in the contest, 
was erected at Pytho. But of its own accord it flew to the lyre, and of its own 
accord sang, and was regarded by the Greeks as a musical performer. 
How, let me ask, have you believed vain fables and supposed animals to be 
charmed by music while Truth's shining face alone, as would seem appears to you 
disguised, and is looked on with incredulous eyes? And so Cithaeron, and 
Helicon, and the mountains of the Odrysi, and the initiatory rites of the 
Thracians, mysteries of deceit, are hallowed and celebrated in hymns. For me, I 
am pained at such calamities as form the subjects of tragedy, though but myths; 
but by you the records of miseries are turned into dramatic compositions. 
But the dramas and the raving poets, now quite intoxicated, let us crown with 
ivy; and distracted outright as they are, in Bacchic fashion, with the satyrs, 
and the frenzied rabble, and the rest of the demon crew, let us confine to 
Cithaeron and Helicon, now antiquated. 
But let us bring from above out of heaven, Truth, with Wisdom in all its 
brightness, and the sacred prophetic choir, down to the holy mount of God; and 
let Truth, darting her light to the most distant points, cast her rays all 
around on those that are involved in darkness, and deliver men from delusion, 
stretching out her very strong right hand, which is wisdom, for their salvation. 
And raising their eyes, and looking above, let them abandon Helicon and 
Cithaeron, and take up their abode in Sion. "For out of Sion shall go forth the 
law, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem, --the celestial Word, the true 
athlete crowned in the theatre of the whole universe. What my Eunomos sings is 
not the measure of Terpander, nor that of Capito, nor the Phrygian, nor Lydian, 
nor Dorian, but the immortal measure of the new harmony which bears God's 
name--the new, the Levitical song. 
"Soother of pain, calmer of wrath, producing forgetfulness of all ills." 
Sweet and true is the charm of persuasion which blends with this strain. 
To me, therefore, that Thracian Orpheus, that Theban, and that 
Methymnaean,--men, and yet unworthy of the name,--seem to have been deceivers, 
who, under the pretence of poetry corrupting human life, possessed by a spirit 
of artful sorcery for purposes of destruction, celebrating crimes in their 
orgies, and making human woes the materials of religious worship, were the first 
to entice men to idols; nay, to build up the stupidity of the nations with 
blocks of wood and stone,--that is, statues and images,--subjecting to the yoke 
of extremest bondage the truly noble freedom of those who lived as free citizens 
under heaven by their songs and incantations. But not such is my song, which has 
come to loose, and that speedily, the bitter bondage of tyrannizing demons; and 
leading us back to the mild and loving yoke of piety, recalls to heaven those 
that had been cast prostrate to the earth. It alone has tamed men, the most 
intractable of animals; the frivolous among them answering to the fowls of the 
air, deceivers to reptiles, the irascible to lions, the voluptuous to swine, the 
rapacious to wolves. The silly are stocks and stones, and still more senseless 
than stones is a man who is steeped in ignorance. As our witness, let us adduce 
the voice of prophecy accordant with truth, and bewailing those who are crushed 
in ignorance and folly: "For God is able of these stones to raise up children to 
Abraham;" and He, commiserating their great ignorance and hardness of heart who 
are petrified against the truth, has raised up a seed of piety, sensitive to 
virtue, of those stones--of the nations, that is, who trusted in stones. Again, 
therefore, some venomous and false hypocrites, who plotted against 
righteousness, He once called "a brood of vipers." But if one of those serpents 
even is willing to repent, and follows the Word, he becomes a man of God. 
Others he figuratively calls wolves, clothed in sheep-skins, meaning thereby 
monsters of rapacity in human form. And so all such most savage beasts, and all 
such blocks of stone, the celestial song has transformed into tractable men. 
"For even we ourselves were sometime foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving 
divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, hating one 
another." Thus speaks the apostolic Scripture: "But after that the kindness and 
love of God our saviour to man appeared, not by works of righteousness which we 
have done, but according to His mercy, He saved us." 
Behold the might of the new song! It has made men out of stones, men out of 
beasts. Those, moreover, that were as dead, not being partakers of the true 
life, have come to life again, simply by becoming listeners to this song. It 
also composed the universe into melodious order, and tuned the discord of the 
elements to harmonious arrangement, so that the whole world might become 
harmony. It let loose the fluid ocean, and yet has prevented it from encroaching 
on the land. The earth, again, which had been in a state of commotion, it has 
established, and fixed the sea as its boundary. The violence of fire it has 
softened by the atmosphere, as the Dorian is blended with the Lydian strain; and 
the harsh cold of the air it has moderated by the embrace of fire, harmoniously 
arranging these the extreme tones of the universe. And this deathless strain,the 
support of the whole and the harmony of all,--reaching from the centre to the 
circumference, and from the extremities to the central part, has harmonized this 
universal frame of things, not according to the Thracian music, which is like 
that invented by Jubal, but according to the paternal counsel of God, which 
fired the zeal of David. And He who is of David, and yet before him, the Word of 
God, despising the lyre and harp, which are but lifeless instruments, and having 
tuned by the Holy Spirit the universe, and especially man,--who, composed of 
body and soul, is a universe in miniature,makes melody to God on this instrument 
of many tones; and to this intrument--I mean man--he sings accordant: "For thou 
art my harp, and pipe, and temple." --a harp for harmony--a pipe by reason of 
the Spirit a temple by reason of the word; so that the first may sound, the 
second breathe, the third contain the Lord. And David the king, the harper whom 
we mentioned a little above, who exhorted to the truth and dissuaded from idols, 
was so far from celebrating demons in song, that in reality they were driven 
away by his music. Thus, when Saul was plagued with a demon, he cured him by 
merely playing. A beautiful breathing instrument of music the Lord made man, 
after His own image. And He Himself also, surely, who is the supramundane 
Wisdom, the celestial Word, is the all-harmonious, melodious, holy instrument of 
God. What, then, does this instrument--the Word of God, the Lord, the New 
Song--desire? To open the eyes of the blind, and unstop the ears of the deaf, 
and to lead the lame or the erring to righteousness, to exhibit God to the 
foolish, to put a stop to corruption, to conquer death, to reconcile disobedient 
children to their father. The instrument of God loves mankind. The Lord pities, 
instructs, exhorts, admonishes, saves, shields, and of His bounty promises us 
the kingdom of heaven as a reward for learning; and the only advantage He reaps 
is, that we are saved. For wickedness feeds on men's destruction; but truth, 
like the bee, harming nothing, delights only in the salvation of men. 
You have, then, God's promise; you have His love: become partaker of His 
grace. And do not suppose the song of salvation to be new, as a vessel or a 
house is new. For "before the morning star it was;" 'and "in the beginning was 
the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God." Error seems old, but 
truth seems a new thing. 
Whether, then, the Phrygians are shown to be the most ancient people by the 
goats of the fable; or, on the other hand, the Arcadians by the poets, who 
describe them as older than the moon; or, finally, the Egyptians by those who 
dream that this land first gave birth to gods and men: yet none of these at 
least existed before the world. But before the foundation of the world were we, 
who, because destined to be in Him, pre-existed in the eye of God before,--we 
the rational creatures of the Word of God, on whose account we date from the 
beginning; for "in the beginning was the Word." Well, inasmuch as the Word was 
from the first, He was and is the divine source of all things; but inasmuch as 
He has now assumed the name Christ, consecrated of old, and worthy of power, he 
has been called by me the New Song. This Word, then, the Christ, the cause of 
both our being at first (for He was in God) and of our well-being, this very 
Word has now appeared as man, He alone being both, both God and man--the Author 
of all blessings to us; by whom we, being taught to live well, are sent on our 
way to life eternal. For, according to that inspired apostle of the Lord, "the 
grace of God which bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, teaching us, 
that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, 
righteously, and godly, in this present world; looking for the blessed hope, and 
appearing of the glory of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ." 
This is the New Song, the manifestation of the Word that was in the 
beginning, and before the beginning. The Saviour, who existed before, has in 
recent days appeared. He, who is in Him that truly is, has appeared; for the 
Word, who "was with God," and by whom all things were created, has appeared as 
our Teacher. The Word, who in the beginning bestowed on us life as Creator when 
He formed us, taught us to live well when He appeared as our Teacher; that as 
God He might afterwards conduct us to the life which never ends. He did not now 
for the first time pity us for our error; but He pitied us from the first, from 
the beginning. But now, at His appearance, lost as we already were, He 
accomplished our salvation. For that wicked reptile monster, by his 
enchantments, enslaves and plagues men even till now; inflicting, as seems to 
me, such barbarous vengeance on them as those who are said to bind the captives 
to corpses till they rot together. This wicked tyrant and serpent, accordingly, 
binding fast with the miserable chain of superstition whomsoever he can draw to 
his side from their birth, to stones, and stocks, and images, and such like 
idols, may with truth be said to have taken and buried living men with those 
dead idols, till both suffer corruption together. 
Therefore (for the seducer is one and the same) he that at the beginning 
brought Eve down to death, now brings thither the rest of mankind. Our ally and 
helper, too, is one and the same--the Lord, who from the beginning gave 
revelations by prophecy, but now plainly calls to salvation. In obedience to the 
apostolic injunction, therefore, let us flee from "the prince of the power of 
the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience," and let 
us run to the Lord the saviour, who now exhorts to salvation, as He has ever 
done, as He did by signs and wonders in Egypt and the desert, both by the bush 
and the cloud, which, through the favour of divine love, attended the Hebrews 
like a handmaid. By the fear which these inspired He addressed the hard-hearted; 
while by Moses, learned in all wisdom, and Isaiah, lover of truth, and the whole 
prophetic choir, in a way appealing more to reason, He turns to the Word those 
who have ears to hear. Sometimes He upbraids, and sometimes He threatens. Some 
men He mourns over, others He addresses with the voice of song, just as a good 
physician treats some of his patients with cataplasms, some with rubbing, some 
with fomentations; in one case cuts open with the lancet, in another cauterizes, 
in another amputates, in order if possible to cure the patient's diseased part 
or member. The Saviour has many tones of voice, and many methods for the 
salvation of men; by threatening He admonishes, by upbraiding He converts, by 
bewailing He pities, by the voice of song He cheers. He spake by the burning 
bush, for the men of that day needed signs and wonders. 
He awed men by the fire when He made flame to burst from the pillar of 
cloud--a token at once of grace and fear: if you obey, there is the light; if 
you disobey, there is the fire; but. since humanity is nobler than the pillar or 
the bush, after them the prophets uttered their voice,--the Lord Himself 
speaking in Isaiah, in Elias,--speaking Himself by the mouth of the prophets. 
But if thou dost not believe the prophets, but supposest both the men and the 
fire a myth, the Lord Himself shall speak to thee, "who, being in the form of 
God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but humbled Himself," --He, 
the merciful God, exerting Himself to save man. And now the Word Himself clearly 
speaks to thee, Shaming thy unbelief; yea, I say, the Word of God became man, 
that thou mayest learn from man how man may become God. Is it not then 
monstrous, my friends, that while God is ceaselessly exhorting us to virtue, we 
should spurn His kindness and reject salvation? 
Does not John also invite to salvation, and is he not entirely a voice of 
exhortation? Let us then ask him, "Who of men art thou, and whence?" He will not 
say Elias. He will deny that he is Christ, but will profess himself to be "a 
voice crying in the wilderness." Who, then, is John? In a word, we may say, "The 
beseeching voice of the Word crying in the wilderness." What criest thou, O 
voice? Tell us also. "Make straight the paths of the LORD." John is the 
forerunner, and that voice the precursor of the Word; an inviting voice, 
preparing for salvation,--a voice urging men on to the inheritance of the 
heavens, and through which the barren and the desolate is childless no more. 
This fecundity the angel's voice foretold; and this voice was also the precursor 
of the Lord preaching glad tidings to the barren woman, as John did to the 
wilderness. By reason of this voice of the Word, therefore, the barren woman 
bears children, and the desert becomes fruitful. The two voices which heralded 
the Lord's--that of the angel and that of John--intimate, as I think, the 
salvation in store for us to be, that on the appearance of this Word we should 
reap, as the fruit of this productiveness, eternal life. The Scripture makes 
this all clear, by referring both the voices to the same thing: "Let her hear 
who has not brought forth, and let her who has not had the pangs of childbirth 
utter her voice: for more are the children of the desolate, than of her who hath 
an husband." 
The angel announced to us the glad tidings of a husband. John entreated us to 
recognise the husbandman, to seek the husband. For this husband of the barren 
woman, and this husbandman of the desert--who filled with divine power the 
barren woman and the desert--is one and the same. For because many were the 
children of the mother of noble rule, yet the Hebrew woman, once blessed with 
many children, was made childless because of unbelief: the barren woman receives 
the husband, and the desert the husbandman; then both become mothers through the 
word, the one of fruits, the other of believers. But to the Unbelieving the 
barren and the desert are still reserved. For this reason John, the herald of 
the Word, besought men to make themselves ready against the coming of the Christ 
Of God. And it was this which was signified by the dumbness of Zacharias, which 
waited for fruit in the person of the harbinger of Christ, that the Word, the 
light of truth, by becoming the Gospel, might break the mystic silence of the 
prophetic enigmas. But if thou desirest truly to see God, take to thyself means 
of purification worthy of Him, not leaves of laurel fillets interwoven. with 
wool and purple; but wreathing thy brows with righteousness, and encircling them 
with the leaves of temperance, set thyself earnestly to find Christ. "For I am," 
He says, "the door," which we who desire to understand God must discover, that 
He may throw heaven's gates wide open to. us. For the gates of the Word being 
intellectual, are opened by the key of faith. No one knows God but the Son, and 
he to whom the Son shall reveal Him. And I know well that He who has opened the 
door hitherto shut, will afterwards reveal what is within; and will show what we 
could not have known before, had we not entered in by Christ, through whom alone 
God is beheld. 
CHAP. II.--THE ABSURDITY AND IMPIETY OF THE HEATHEN MYSTERIES AND FABLES 
ABOUT THE BIRTH AND DEATH OF THEIR GODS. 
Explore not then too curiously the shrines of impiety, or the mouths of 
caverns full of monstrosity, or the Thesprotian caldron, or the Cirrhaean 
tripod, or the Dodonian copper. The Gerandryon, once regarded sacred in the 
midst of desert sands, and the oracle there gone to decay with the oak itself, 
consigned to the region of antiquated fables. The fountain of Castalia is 
silent, and the other fountain of Colophon; and, in like manner, all the rest of 
the springs of divination are dead, and stripped of their vainglory, although at 
a late date, are shown with their fabulous legends to have run dry. Recount to 
us also the useless oracles of that other kind of divination, or rather madness, 
the Clarian, the Pythian, the Didymaean, that of Amphiaraus, of Apollo, of 
Amphilochus; and if you will, couple with them the expounders of prodigies, the 
augurs, and the interpreters of dreams. And bring and place beside the Pythian 
those that divine by flour, and those that divine by barley, and the 
ventriloquists still held in honour by many. Let the secret shrines of the 
Egyptians and the necromancies of the Etruscans be consigned to darkness. Insane 
devices truly are they all of unbelieving men. Goats, too, have been 
confederates in this art of soothsaying, trained to divination; and crows taught 
by men to give oracular responses to men. 
And what if I go over the mysteries? I will not divulge them in mockery, as 
they say Alcibiades did, but I will expose right well by the word of truth the 
sorcery hidden in them; and those so-called gods of yours, whose are the mystic 
rites, I shall display, as it were, on the stage of life, to the spectators of 
truth. The bacchanals hold their orgies in honour of the frenzied Dionysus, 
celebrating their sacred frenzy by the eating of raw flesh, and go through the 
distribution of the parts of butchered victims, crowned with snakes, shrieking 
out the name of that Eva by whom error came into the world. The symbol of the 
Bacchic orgies. is a consecrated serpent. Moreover, according to the strict 
interpretation of the Hebrew term, the name Hevia, aspirated, signifies a female 
serpent. 
Demeter and Proserpine have become the heroines of a mystic drama; and their 
wanderings, and seizure, and grief, Eleusis celebrates by torchlight 
processions. I think that the derivation of orgies and mysteries ought to be 
traced, the former to the wrath (orgh) of Demeter against Zeus, the 
latter to the nefarious wickedness (musos) relating to Dionysus; but if 
from Myus of Attica, who Pollodorus says was killed in hunting--no matter, I 
don't grudge your mysteries the glory of funeral honours. You may understand 
mysteria in another way, as mytheria (hunting fables), the letters of the two 
words being interchanged; for certainly fables of this sort hunt after the most 
barbarous of the Thracians, the most senseless of the Phrygians, and the 
superstitious among the Greeks. 
Perish, then, the man who was the author of this imposture among men, be he 
Dardanus, who taught the mysteries of the mother of the gods, or Eetion, who 
instituted the orgies and mysteries of the Samothracians, or that Phrygian Midas 
who, having learned the cunning imposture from Odrysus, communicated it to his 
subjects. For I will never be persuaded by that Cyprian Islander Cinyras, who 
dared to bring forth from night to the light of day the lewd orgies of Aphrodite 
in his eagerness to deify a strumpet of his own country. Others say that 
Melampus the son of Amythaon imported the festivals of Ceres from Egypt into 
Greece, celebrating her grief in song. 
These I would instance as the prime authors of evil, the parents of impious 
fables and of deadly superstition, who sowed in human life that seed of evil and 
ruin--the mysteries. 
And now, for it is time, I will prove their orgies to be full of imposture 
and quackery. And if you have been initiated, you will laugh all the more at 
these fables of yours which have been held in honour. I publish without reserve 
what has been involved in secrecy, not ashamed to tell what you are not ashamed 
to worship. 
There is then the foam-born and Cyprus-born, the darling of Cinyras,--I mean 
Aphrodite, lover of the virilia, because sprung from them, even from those of 
Uranus, that were cut off,--those lustful members, that, after being cut off, 
offered violence to the waves. Of members so lewd a worthy fruit--Aphrodite--is 
born. In the rites which celebrate this enjoyment of the sea, as a symbol of her 
birth a lump of suit and the phallus are handed to those who are initiated into 
the art of uncleanness. And those initiated bring a piece of money to her, as a 
courtesan's paramours do to her, Then there are the mysteries of Demeter, and 
Zeus's wanton embraces of his mother, and the wrath of Demeter; I know not what 
for the future I shall call her, mother or wife, on which account it is that she 
is called Brimo, as is said; also the entreaties of Zeus, and the drink of gall, 
the plucking out of the hearts of sacrifices, and deeds that we dare not name. 
Such rites the Phrygians perform in honour of Attis and Cybele and the 
Corybantes. And the story goes, that Zeus, having torn away the orchites of a 
ram, brought them out and cast them at the breasts of Demeter, paying thus a 
fraudulent penalty for his violent embrace, pretending to have cut out his own. 
The symbols of initiation into these rites, when set before you in a vacant 
hour, I know will excite your laughter, although on account of the exposure by 
no means inclined to laugh. "I have eaten out of the drum, I have drunk out of 
the cymbal, I have carried the Cernos, I have slipped into the bedroom." Are not 
these tokens a disgrace? Are not the mysteries absurdity? 
What if I add the rest? Demeter becomes a mother, Core is reared up to 
womanhood. And, in course of time, he who begot her,--this same Zeus has 
intercourse with his own daughter Pherephatta,--after Ceres, the 
mother,--forgetting his former abominable wickedness. Zeus is both the father 
and the seducer of Core, and shamefully courts her in the shape of a dragon; his 
identity, however, was discovered. The token of the Sabazian mysteries to the 
initiated is "the deity gliding over the breast,"--the deity being this serpent 
crawling over the breasts of the initiated. Proof surely this of the unbridled 
lust of Zeus. 
Pherephatta has a child, though, to be sure, in the form of a bull, as an 
idolatrous poet says,- "The bull The dragon's father, and the father of the bull 
the dragon, On shill the herdsman's hidden ox-goad,"- alluding, as I believe, 
under the name of the herdsman's ox-goad, to the reed wielded by bacchanals. Do 
you wish me to go into the story of Persephatta's gathering of flowers, her 
basket, and her seizure by Pluto (Aidoneus), and the rent in the earth, and the 
swine of Eubouleus that were swallowed up with the two goddesses; for which 
reason, in the Thesmophoria, speaking the Megaric tongue, they thrust out swine? 
This mythological story the women celebrate variously in different cities in the 
festivals called Thesmophoria and Scirophoria; dramatizing in many forms the 
rape of Pherephatta or Persephatta (Proserpine). 
The mysteries of Dionysus are wholly inhuman; for while still a child, and 
the Curetes danced around [his cradle] clashing their weapons, and the Titans 
having come upon them by stealth, and having beguiled him with childish toys, 
these very Titans tore him limb from limb when but a child, as the bard of this 
mystery, the Thracian Orpheus, says:- "Cone, and spinning-top, and limb-moving 
rattles, And fair golden apples from the clear-toned Hesperides." 
And the useless symbols of this mystic rite it will not be useless to exhibit 
for condemnation. These are dice, ball, hoop, apples, top, looking-glass, tuft 
of wool. 
Athene (Minerva), to resume our account, having abstracted the heart of 
Dionysus, was called Pallas, from the vibrating of the heart; and the Titans who 
had torn him limb from limb, setting a caldron on a tripod, and throwing into it 
the members of Dionysus, first boiled them down, and then fixing them on spits, 
"held them over the fire." But Zeus having appeared, since he was a god, having 
speedily perceived the savour of the pieces of flesh that were being 
cooked,--that savour which your gods agree to have assigned to them as their 
perquisite,assails the Titans with his thunderbolt, and consigns the members of 
Dionysus to his son Apollo to be interred. And he--for he did not disobey 
Zeus--bore the dismembered corpse to Parnassus, and there deposited it. 
If you wish to inspect the orgies of the Corybantes, then know that, having 
killed their third brother, they covered the head of the dead body with a purple 
cloth, crowned it, and carrying it on the point of a spear, buried it under the 
roots of Olympus. These mysteries are, in short, murders and funerals. And the 
priests of these rites, who are called kings of the sacred rites by those whose 
business it is to name them, give additional strangeness to the tragic 
occurrence, by forbidding parsley with the roots from being placed on the table, 
for they think that parsley grew from the Corybantic blood that flowed forth; 
just as the women, in celebrating the Thesmophoria, abstain from eating the 
seeds of the pomegranate which have fallen on the ground, from the idea that 
pomegranates sprang from the drops of the blood of Dionysus. Those Corybantes 
also they call Cabiric; and the ceremony itself they announce as the Cabiric 
mystery. 
For those two identical fratricides, having abstracted the box in which the 
phallus of Bacchus was deposited, took it to Etruria--dealers in honourable 
wares truly. They lived there as exiles, employing themselves in communicating 
the precious teaching of their superstition, and presenting phallic symbols and 
the box for the Tyrrhenians to worship. And some will have it, not improbably, 
that for this reason Dionysus was called Attis, because he was mutilated. And 
what is surprising at the Tyrrhenians, who were barbarians, being thus initiated 
into these foul indignities, when among the Athenians, and in the whole of 
Greece--I blush to say it--the shameful legend about Demeter holds its ground? 
For Demeter, wandering in quest of her daughter Core, broke down with fatigue 
near Eleusis, a place in Attica, and sat down on a well overwhelmed with grief. 
This is even now prohibited to those who are initiated, lest they should appear 
to mimic the weeping goddess. The indigenous inhabitants then occupied Eleusis: 
their names were Baubo, and Dusaules, and Triptolemus; and besides, Eumolpus and 
Eubouleus. Triptolemus was a herdsman, Eumolpus a shepherd, and Eubouleus a 
swineherd; from whom came the race of the Eumolpidae and that of the Heralds--a 
race of Hierophants--who flourished at Athens. 
Well, then (for I shall not refrain from the recital), Baubo having received 
Demeter hospitably, reaches to her a refreshing draught; and on her refusing it, 
not having any inclination to drink (for she was very sad), and Baubo having 
become annoyed, thinking herself slighted, uncovered her shame, and exhibited 
her nudity to the goddess. Demeter is delighted at the sight, and takes, though 
with difficulty, the draught- pleased, I repeat, at the spectacle. These are the 
secret mysteries of the Athenians; these Orpheus records. I shall produce the 
very words of Orpheus, that you may have the great authority on the mysteries 
himself, as evidence for this piece of turpitude:- "Having thus spoken, she drew 
aside her garments, And showed all that shape of the body which it is improper 
to name, And with her own hand Baubo stripped herself under the breasts. 
Blandly then the goddess laughed and laughed in her mind, And received the 
glancing cup in which was the draught." 
And the following is the token of the Eleusinian mysteries: I have fasted, I 
have drunk the cup; I have received from the box; having done, I put it into the 
basket, and out of the basket into the chest. Fine sights truly, and becoming a 
goddess; mysteries worthy of the night, and flame, and the magnanimous or rather 
silly people of the Erechthidae, and the other Greeks besides, "whom a fate they 
hope not for awaits after death." And in truth against these Heraclitus the 
Ephesian prophesies, as "the night-walkers, the magi, the bacchanals, the 
Lenaean revellers, the initiated." These he threatens with what will follow 
death, and predicts for them fire. For what are regarded among men as mysteries, 
they celebrate sacrilegiously. Law, then, and opinion, are nugatory. And the 
mysteries of the dragon are an imposture, which celebrates religiously mysteries 
that are no mysteries at all, and observes with a spurious piety profane rites. 
What are these mystic chests?--for I must expose their sacred things, and 
divulge things not fit for speech. Are they not sesame cakes, and pyramidal 
cakes, and globular and flat cakes, embossed all over, and lumps of salt, and a 
serpent the symbol of Dionysus Bassareus? And besides these, are they not 
pomegranates, and branches, and rods, and ivy leaves? and besides, round cakes 
and poppy seeds? And further, there are the unmentionable symbols of Themis, 
marjoram, a lamp, a sword, a woman's comb, which is a euphemism and mystic 
expression for the muliebria. 
O unblushing shamelessness! Once on a time night was silent, a veil for the 
pleasure of temperate men; but now for the initiated, the holy night is the 
tell-tale of the rites of licentiousness; and the glare of torches reveals 
vicious indulgences. Quench the flame, O Hierophant; reverence, O Torch-bearer, 
the torches. That light exposes Iacchus; let thy mysteries be honoured, and 
command the orgies to be hidden in night and darkness. 
The fire dissembles not; it exposes and punishes what it is bidden. 
Such are the mysteries of the Atheists. And with reason I call those Atheists 
who know not the true God, and pay shameless worship to a boy torn in pieces by 
the Titans, and a woman in distress, and to parts of the body that in truth 
cannot be mentioned for shame, held fast as they are in the double impiety, 
first in that they know not God, not acknowledging as God Him who truly is; the 
other and second is the error of regarding those who exist not, as existing and 
calling those gods that have no real existence, or rather no existence at all, 
who have nothing but a name. Wherefore the apostle reproves us, saying, "And ye 
were strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without God in 
the world." 
All honour to that king of the Scythians, whoever Anacharsis was, who shot 
with an arrow one of his subjects who imitated among the Scythians the mystery 
of the Mother of the gods, as practised by the inhabitants of Cyzicus, beating a 
drum and sounding a cymbal strung from his neck like a priest of Cybele, 
condemning him as having become effeminate among the Greeks, and a teacher of 
the disease of effeminacy to the rest of the Cythians. 
Wherefore (for I must by no means conceal it) I cannot help wondering how 
Euhemerus of Agrigentum, and Nicanor of Cyprus, and Diagoras, and Hippo of 
Melos, and besides these, that Cyrenian of the name of Theodorus, and numbers of 
others, who lived a sober life, and had a clearer insight than the rest of the 
world into the prevailing error respecting those gods, were called Atheists; for 
if they did not arrive at the knowledge of the truth, they certainly suspected 
the error of the common opinion; which suspicion is no insignificant seed, and 
becomes the germ of true wisdom. One of these charges the Egyptians thus: "If 
you believe them to be gods, do not mourn or bewail them; and if you mourn and 
bewail them, do not any more regard them as gods." And another, taking an image 
of Hercules made of wood (for he happened most likely to be cooking something at 
home), said, "Come now, Hercules; now is the time to undergo for us this 
thirteenth labour, as you did the twelve for Eurystheus, and make this ready for 
Diagoras," and so cast it into the fire as a log of wood. For the extremes of 
ignorance are atheism and superstition, from which we must endeavour to keep. 
And do you not see Moses, the hierophant of the truth, enjoining that no eunuch, 
or emasculated man, or son of a harlot, should enter the congregation? By the 
two first he alludes to the impious custom by which men were deprived both of 
divine energy and of their virility; and by the third, to him who, in place of 
the only real God, assumes many gods falsely so called,--as the son of a harlot, 
in ignorance of his true father, may claim many putative fathers. 
There was an innate original communion between men and heaven, obscured 
through ignorance, but which now at length has leapt forth instantaneously from 
the darkness, and shines resplendent; as has been expressed by one in the 
following lines:- "See'st thou this lofty, this boundless ether, Holding the 
earth in the embrace of its humid arms." 
And in these:- "O Thou, who makest the earth Thy chariot, and in the earth 
hast Thy seat, Whoever Thou be, baffling our efforts to behold Thee." 
And whatever else the sons of the poets sing. 
But sentiments erroneous, and deviating from what is right, and certainly 
pernicious, have turned man, a creature of heavenly origin, away from the 
heavenly life, and stretched him on the earth, by inducing him to cleave to 
earthly objects. For some, beguiled by the contemplation of the heavens, and 
trusting to their sight alone, while they looked on the motions of the stars, 
straightway were seized with admiration, and deified them, calling the stars 
gods from their motion (qeos from qein); and worshipped the 
sun,--as, for example, the Indians; and the moon, as the Phrygians. Others, 
plucking the benignant fruits of earth-born plants, called grain Demeter, as the 
Athenians, and the vine Dionysus, as the Thebans. Others, considering the 
penalties of wickedness, deified them, worshipping various forms of retribution 
and calamity. Hence the Erinnyes, and the Eumenides, and the piacular deities, 
and the judges and avengers of crime, are the creations of the tragic poets. 
And some even of the philosophers, after the poets, make idols of forms of 
the affections in your breasts,--such as fear, and love, and joy, and hope; as, 
to be sure, Epimenides of old, who raised ar Athens the altars of Insult and 
Impudence. Other objects deified by men take their rise from events, and are 
fashioned in bodily shape, such as a Dike, a Clotho, and Lachesis, and Atropos, 
and Heimarmene, and Auxo, and Thallo, which are Attic goddesses. There is a 
sixth mode of introducing error and of manufacturing gods, according to which 
they number the twelve gods, whose birth is the theme of which Hesiod sings in 
his Theogony, and of whom Homer speaks in all that he says of the gods. The last 
mode remains (for there are seven in all)--that which takes its rise from the 
divine beneficence towards men. For, not understanding that it is God that does 
us good, they have invented saviours in the persons of the Dioscuri, and 
Hercules the averter of evil, and Asclepius the healer. These are the slippery 
and hurtful deviations from the truth which draw man down from heaven, and cast 
him into the abyss. I wish to show thoroughly what like these gods of yours are, 
that now at length you may abandon your delusion, and speed your flight back to 
heaven. "For we also were once children of wrath, even as others; but God, being 
rich in mercy, for the great love wherewith He loved us, when we were now dead 
in trespasses, quickened us together with Christ." For the Word is living, and 
having been buried with Christ, is exalted with God. But those who are still 
unbelieving are called children of wrath, reared for wrath. We who have been 
rescued from error, and restored to the truth, are no longer the nurslings of 
wrath. Thus, therefore, we who were once the children of lawlessness, have 
through the philanthropy of the Word now become the sons of God. 
But to you a poet of your own, Empedocles of Agrigentum, comes and says:- 
"Wherefore, distracted with grievous evils, You will never ease your soul of its 
miserable woes." 
The most of what is told of your gods is fabled and invented; and those 
things which are supposed to have taken place, are recorded of vile men who 
lived licentious lives:- "You walk in pride and madness, And leaving the right 
and straight path, you have gone away Through thorns and briars. Why do ye 
wander? 
Cease, foolish men, from mortals; Leave the darkness of night, and lay hold 
on the light." 
These counsels the Sibyl, who is at once prophetic and poetic, enjoins on us; 
and truth enjoins them on us too, stripping the crowd of deities of those 
terrifying and threatening masks of theirs, disproving the rash opinions formed 
of them by showing the similarity of names. For there are those who reckon three 
Jupiters: him of Aether in Arcadia, and the other two sons of Kronos; and of 
these, one in Crete, and the others again in Arcadia. And there are those that 
reckon five Athenes: the Athenian, the daughter of Hephaestus; the second, the 
Egyptian, the daughter of Nilus; the third the inventor of war, the daughter of 
Kronos; the fourth, the daughter of Zeus, whom the Messenians have named 
Coryphasia, from her mother; above all, the daughter of Pallas and Titanis, the 
daughter of Oceanus, who, having wickedly killed her father, adorned herself 
with her father's skin, as if it had been the fleece of a sheep. Further, 
Aristotle calls the first Apollo, the son of Hephaestus and Athene (consequently 
Athene is no more a virgin); the second, that in Crete, the son of Corybas; the 
third, the son Zeus; the fourth, the Arcadian, the son of Silenus (this one is 
called by the Arcadians Nomius); and in addition to these, he specifies the 
Libyan Apollo, the son of Ammon; and to these Didymus the grammarian adds a 
sixth, the son of Magnes. And now how many Apollos are there? They are 
numberless, mortal men, all helpers of their fellow-men who similarly with those 
already mentioned have been so called. And what were I to mention the many 
Asclepiuses, or all the Mercuries that are reckoned up, or the Vulcans of fable? 
Shall I not appear extravagant, deluging your ears with these numerous names? 
At any rate, the native countries of your gods, and their arts and lives, and 
besides especially their sepulchres, demonstrate them to have been men. Mars, 
accordingly, who by the poets is held in the highest possible honour:- "Mars, 
Mars, bane of men, blood-stained stormer of walls," - this deity, always 
changing sides, and implacable, as Epicharmus says, was a Spartan; Sophocles 
knew him for a Thracian; others say he was an Arcadian. This god, Homer says, 
was bound thirteen months:- "Mars had his suffering; by Aloeus' sons, Otus and 
Ephialtes, strongly bound, He thirteen months in brazen fetters lay." 
Good luck attend the Carians, who sacrifice dogs to him! And may the 
Scythians never leave off sacrificing asses, as Apollodorus and Callimachus 
relate:- "Phoebus rises propitious to the Hyperboreans, Then they offer 
sacrifices of asses to him." 
And the same in another place:- "Fat sacrifices of asses' flesh delight 
Phoebus." 
Hephaestus, whom Jupiter cast from Olympus, from its divine threshold, having 
fallen on Lemnos, practised the art of working in brass, maimed in his feet:- 
"His tottering knees were bowed beneath his weight." 
You have also a doctor, and not only a brass-worker among the gods. And the 
doctor was greedy of gold; Asclepius was his name. I shall produce as a witness 
your own poet, the Boeotian Pindar:- "Him even the gold glittering in his hands, 
Amounting to a splendid fee, persuaded To rescue a man, already death's capture, 
from his grasp; But Saturnian Jove, having shot his bolt through both, Quickly 
took the breath from their breasts, And his flaming thunderbolt sealed their 
doom." 
And Euripides:- "For Zeus was guilty of the murder of my son Asclepius, by 
casting the lightning flame at his breast." 
He therefore lies struck with lightning in the regions of Cynosuris. 
Philochorus also says, that Poseidon was worshipped as a physician in Tenos; and 
that Kronos settled in Sicily, and there was buried. Patroclus the Thurian, and 
Sophocles the younger, in three tragedies, have told the story of the Dioscuri; 
and these Dioscuri were only two mortals, if Homer is worthy of of credit:- " . 
. . . . . but they beneath the teeming earth, In Lacedaemon lay, their native 
land." 
And, in addition, he who wrote the Cyprian poems says Castor was mortal, and 
death was decreed to him by fate; but Pollux was immortal, being the progeny of 
Mars. This he has poetically fabled. But Homer is more worthy of credit, who 
spoke as above of both the Dioscuri; and, besides, proved Herucles to be a mere 
phantom:- "The man Hercules, expert in mighty deeds." 
Hercules, therefore, was known by Homer himself as only a mortal man. And 
Hieronymus the philosopher describes the make of his body, as tall, 
bristling-haired, robust; and Dicaearchus says that he was square-built, 
muscular, dark, hook-nosed, with greyish eyes and long hair. This Hercules, 
accordingly, after living fifty-two years, came to his end, and was burned in a 
funeral pyre in OEta. 
As for the Muses, whom Alcander calls the daughters of Zeus and Mnemosyne, 
and the rest of the poets and authors deify and worship,-those Muses, in honour 
of whom whole states have already erected museums, being handmaids, were hired 
by Megaclo, the daughter of Macar. This Macar reigned over the Lesbians, and was 
always quarrelling with his wife; and Megaclo was vexed for her mother's sake. 
What would she not do on her account? Accordingly she hires those handmaids, 
being so many in number, and calls them Mysae, according to the dialect of the 
Aeolians. These she taught to sing deeds of the olden time, and play melodiously 
on the lyre. And they, by assiduously playing the lyre, and singing sweetly to 
it, soothed Macar, and put a stop to his ill-temper. Wherefore Megaclo, as a 
token of gratitude to them, on her mother's account erected brazen pillars, and 
ordered them to be held in honour in all the temples. Such, then, are the Muses. 
This account is in Myrsilus of Lesbos. 
And now, then, hear the loves of your gods, and the incredible tales of their 
licentiousness, and their wounds, and their bonds, and their laughings, and 
their fights, their servitudes too, and their banquets; and furthermore, their 
embraces, and tears, and sufferings, and lewd delights. Call me Poseidon, and 
the troop of damsels deflowered by him, Amphitrite Amymone, Alope, Melanippe, 
Alcyone, Hippothoe, Chione, and myriads of others; with whom, though so many, 
the passions of your Poseidon were not satiated. 
Call me Apollo; this is Phoebus, both a holy prophet and a good adviser. But 
Sterope will not say that, nor Aethousa, nor Arsinoe, nor Zeuxippe, nor Prothoe, 
nor Marpissa, nor Hypsipyle. For Daphne alone escaped the prophet and seduction. 

And, above all, let the father of gods and men, according to you, himself 
come, who was so given to sexual pleasure, as to lust after all, and indulge his 
lust on all, like the goats of the Thmuitae. And thy poems, O Homer, fill me 
with admiration! 
"He said, and nodded with his shadowy brows; Waved on the immortal head the 
ambrosial locks, And all Olympus trembled at his nod." 
Thou makest Zeus venerable, O Homer; and the nod which thou dost ascribe to 
him is most reverend. But show him only a woman's girdle, and Zeus is exposed, 
and his locks are dishonoured. To what a pitch of licentiousness did that Zeus 
of yours proceed, who spent so many nights in voluptuousness with Alcmene? For 
not even these nine nights were long to this insatiable monster. But, on the 
contrary, a whole lifetime were short enough for his lust; that he might beget 
for us the evil-averting god. 
Hercules, the son of Zeus--a true son of Zeus--was the offspring of that long 
night, who with hard toil accomplished the twelve labours in a long time, but in 
one night deflowered the fifty daughters of Thestius, and thus was at once the 
debaucher and the bridegroom of so many virgins. It is not, then, without reason 
that the poets call him a cruel wretch and a nefarious scoundrel. It were 
tedious to recount his adulteries of all sorts, and debauching of boys. For your 
gods did not even abstain from boys, one having loved Hylas, another Hyacinthus, 
another Pelops, another Chrysippus, and another Ganymede. Let such gods as these 
be worshipped by your wives, and let them pray that their husbands be such as 
these--so temperate; that, emulating them in the same practices, they may be 
like the gods. Such gods let your boys be trained to worship, that they may grow 
up to be men with the accursed likeness of fornication on them received from the 
gods. 
But it is only the male deities, perhaps, that are impetuous in sexual 
indulgence. 
"The female deities stayed each in the house, for shame," says Homer; the 
goddesses blushing, for modesty's sake, to look on Aphrodite when she had been 
guilty of adultery. But these are more passionately licentious, bound in the 
chains of adultery; Eos having disgraced herself with Tithonus, Selene with 
Endymion, Nereis with Aeacus, Thetis with Peleus, Demeter with Jason, 
Persephatta with Adonis. And Aphrodite having disgraced herself with Ares, 
crossed over to Cinyra and married Anchises, and laid snares for Phaethon, and 
loved Adonis. She contended with the ox-eyed Juno; and the goddesses un-robed 
for the sake of the apple, and presented themselves naked before the shepherd, 
that he might decide which was the fairest. 
But come, let us briefly go the round of the games, and do away with those 
solemn assemblages at tombs, the Isthmian, Nemean, and Pythian, and finally the 
Olympian. At Pytho the Pythian dragon is worshipped, and the festival-assemblage 
of the serpent is called by the name Pythia. At the Isthmus the sea spit out a 
piece of miserable refuse; and the Isthmian games bewail Melicerta. 
At Nemea another--a little boy, Archemorus--was buried; and the funeral games 
of the child are called Nemea. Pisa is the grave of the Phrygian charioteer, O 
Hellenes of all tribes; and the Olympian games, which are nothing else than the 
funeral sacrifices of Pelops, the Zeus of Phidias claims for himself. The 
mysteries were then, as is probable, games held in honour of the dead; so also 
were the oracles, and both became public. But the mysteries at Sagra and in 
Alimus of Attica were confined to Athens. But those contests and phalloi 
consecrated to Dionysus were a world's shame, pervading life with their deadly 
influence. For Dionysus, eagerly desiring to descend to Hades, did not know the 
way; a man, by name Prosymnus, offers to tell him, not without reward. The 
reward was a disgraceful one, though not so in the opinion of Dionysus: it was 
an Aphrodisian favour that was asked of Dionysus as a reward. The god was not 
reluctant to grant the request made to him, and promises to fulfil it should he 
return, and confirms his promise with an oath. Having learned the way, he 
departed and again returned: he did not find Prosymnus, for he had died. In 
order to acquit himself of his promise to his lover, he rushes to his tomb, and 
burns with unnatural lust. Cutting a fig-branch that came to his hand, he shaped 
the phallus, and so performed his promise to the dead man. As a mystic memorial 
of this incident, phalloi are raised aloft in honour of Dionysus through the 
various cities. "For did they not make a procession in honour of Dionysus, and 
sing most shameless songs in honour of the pudenda, all would go wrong," says 
Heraclitus. This is that Pluto and Dionysus in whose honour they give themselves 
up to frenzy, and play the bacchanal,--not so much, in my opinion, for the sake 
of intoxication, as for the sake of the shameless ceremonial practised. With 
reason, therefore, such as have become slaves of their passions are your gods! 
Furthermore, like the Helots among the Lacedemonians, Apollo came under the 
yoke of slavery to Admetus in Pherae, Hercules to Omphale in Sardis. 
Poseidon--was a drudge to Laomedon; and so was Apollo, who, like a 
good-for-nothing servant, was unable to obtain his freedom from his former 
master; and at that time the walls of Troy were built by them for the Phrygian. 
And Homer is not ashamed to speak of Athene as appearing to Ulysses with a 
golden lamp in her hand. And we read of Aphrodite, like a wanton serving-wench, 
taking and setting a seat for Helen opposite the adulterer, in order to entice 
him. 
Panyasis, too, tells us of gods in plenty besides those who acted as 
servants, writing thus:- "Demeter underwent servitude, and so did the famous 
lame god; Poseidon underwent it, and Apollo too, of the silver bow, With a 
mortal man for a year. And fierce Mars Underwent it at the compulsion of his 
father." 
And so on. 
Agreeably to this, it remains for me to bring before you those amatory and 
sensuous deities of yours, as in every respect having human feelings. 
"For theirs was a mortal body." 
This Homer most distinctly shows, by introducing Aphrodite uttering loud and 
shrill cries on account of her wound; and describing the most warlike Ares 
himself as wounded in the stomach by Diomede. Polemo, too, says that Athene was 
wounded by Ornytus; nay, Homer says that Pluto even was struck with an arrow by 
Hercules; and Panyasis relates that the beams of Sol were struck by the arrows 
of Hercules; and the same Panyasis relates, that by the same Hercules Hera the 
goddess of marriage was wounded in sandy Pylos. Sosibius, too, relates that 
Hercules was wounded in the hand by the sons of Hippocoon. And if there are 
wounds, there is blood. For the ichor of the poets is more repulsive than blood; 
for the putrefaction of blood is called ichor. Wherefore cures and means of 
sustenance of which they stand in need must be furnished. Accordingly mention is 
made of tables, and potations, and laughter, and intercourse; for men would not 
devote themselves to love, or beget children, or sleep, if they were immortal, 
and had no wants, and never grew old. Jupiter himself, when the guest of Lycaon 
the Arcadian, partook of a human table among the Ethiopians--a table rather 
inhuman and forbidden. For he satiated himself with human flesh unwittingly; for 
the god did not know that Lycaon the Arcadian, his entertainer, had slain his 
son (his name was Nyctimus), and served him up cooked before Zeus. 
This is Jupiter the good, the prophetic, the patron of hospitality, the 
protector of suppliants, the benign, the author of omens, the avenger of wrongs; 
rather the unjust, the violater of right and of law, the impious, the inhuman, 
the violent, the seducer, the adulterer, the amatory. But perhaps when he was 
such he was a man; but now these fables seem to have grown old on our hands. 
Zeus is no longer a serpent, a swan, nor an eagle, nor a licentious man; the god 
no longer flies, nor loves boys, nor kisses, nor offers violence, although there 
are still many beautiful women, more comely than Leda, more blooming than 
Semele, and boys of better looks and manners than the Phrygian herdsman. Where 
is now that eagle? where now that swan? where now is Zeus himself? He has grown 
old with his feathers; for as yet he does not repent of his amatory exploits, 
nor is he taught continence. The fable is exposed before you: Leda is dead, the 
swan is dead. Seek your Jupiter. Ransack not heaven, but earth. The Cretan, in 
whose country he was buried, will show him to you,--I mean Callimachus, in his 
hymns:- "For thy tomb, O king, The Cretans fashioned!" 
For Zeus is dead, be not distressed, as Leda is dead, and the swan, and the 
eagle, and the libertine, and the serpent. And now even the superstitious seem, 
although reluctantly, yet truly, to have come to understand their error 
respecting the Gods. 
"For not from an ancient oak, nor from a rock, But from men, is thy descent." 

But shortly after this, they will be found to be but oaks and stones. One 
Agamemnon is said by Staphylus to be worshipped as a Jupiter in Sparta; and 
Phanocles, in his book of the Brave and Fair, relates that Agamemnon king of the 
Hellenes erected the temple of Argennian Aphrodite, in honour of Argennus his 
friend. An Artemis, named the Strangled, is worshipped by the Arcadians, as 
Callimachus says in his Book of Causes; and at Methymna another Artemis had 
divine honours paid her, viz., Artemis Con dylitis. There is also the temple of 
another Artemis--Artemis Podagra (or, the gout)--in Laconica, as Sosibius says. 
Polemo tells of an image of a yawning Apollo; and again of another image, 
reverenced in Elis, of the guzzling Apollo. Then the Eleans sacrifice to Zeus, 
the averter of flies; and the Romans sacrifice to Hercules, the averter of 
flies; and to Fever, and to Terror, whom also they reckon among the attendants 
of Hercules. (I pass over the Argives, who worshipped Aphrodite, opener of 
graves.) The Argives and Spartans reverence Artemis Chelytis, or the cougher, 
from keluttein, which in their speech signifies to cough. 
Do you imagine from what source these details have been quoted? Only such as 
are furnished by yourselves are here adduced; and you do not seem to recognise 
your own writers, whom I call as witnesses against your unbelief. Poor wretches 
that ye are, who have filled with unholy jesting the whole compass of your 
life--a life in reality devoid of life! 
Is not Zeus the Baldhead worshipped in Argos; and another Zeus, the avenger, 
in Cyprus? Do not the Argives sacrifice to Aphrodite Peribaso (the protectress), 
and the Athenians to Aphrodite Hetsera (the courtesan), and the Syracusans to 
Aphrodite Kallipygos, whom Nicander has somewhere called Kalliglutos (with 
beautiful rump). I pass over in silence just now Dionysus Choiropsales. The 
Sicyonians reverence this deity, whom they have constituted the god of the 
muliebria--the patron of filthiness--and religiously honour as the author of 
licentiousness. Such, then, are their gods; such are they also who make mockery 
of the gods, or rather mock and insult themselves. How much better are the 
Egyptians, who in their towns and villages pay divine honours to the irrational 
creatures, than the Greeks, who worship such gods as these? 
For if they are beasts, they are not adulterous or libidinous, and seek 
pleasure in nothing that is contrary to nature. And of what sort these deities 
are, what need is there further to say, as they have been already sufficiently 
exposed? Furthermore, the Egyptians whom I have now mentioned are divided in 
their objects of worship. The Syenites worship the braize-fish; and the 
maiotes--this is another fish--is worshipped by those who inhabit Elephantine: 
the Oxyrinchites likewise worship a fish which takes its name from their 
country. Again, the Heraclitopolites worship the ichneumon, the inhab, itants of 
Sais and of Thebes a sheep, the Leucopolites a wolf, the Cynopolites a dog, the 
Memphites Apis, the Mendesians a goat. And you, who are altogether better than 
the Egyptians (I shrink from saying worse)., who never cease laughing every day 
of your lives at the Egyptians, what are some of you, too, with regard to brute 
beasts? For of your number the Thessalians pay divine homage to storks, in 
accordance with ancient custom; and the Thebans to weasels, for their assistance 
at the birth of Hercules. And again, are not the Thessalians reported to worship 
ants, since they have learned that Zeus in the likeness of an ant had 
intercourse with Eurymedusa, the daughter of Cletor, and begot Myrmidon? Polemo, 
too, relates that the people who inhabit the Troad worship the mice of the 
country, which they call Sminthoi, because they gnawed the strings of their 
enemies' bows; and from those mice Apollo has received his epithet of Sminthian. 
Heraclides, in his work, Regarding the Building of Temples in Acarnania, says 
that, at the place where the promontory of Actium is, and the temple of Apollo 
of Actium, they offer to the flies the sacrifice of an ox. 
Nor shall I forget the Samians: the Samians, as Euphorion says, reverence the 
sheep. Nor shall I forget the Syrians, who inhabit Phoenicia, of whom some 
revere doves, and others fishes, with as excessive veneration as the Eleans do 
Zeus. Well, then, since those you worship are not gods, it seems to me requisite 
to ascertain if those are really demons who are ranked, as you say, in this 
second order [next the gods]. For if the lickerish and impure are demons, 
indigenous demons who have obtained sacred honours may be discovered in crowds 
throughout your cities: Menedemus among the Cythnians; among the Tenians, 
Callistagoras; among the Delians, Anius; among the Laconians, Astrabacus; at 
Phalerus, a hero affixed to the prow of ships is worshipped; and the Pythian 
priestess enjoined the Plataeans to sacrifice to Androcrates and Democrates, and 
Cyclaeus and Leuco while the Median war was at its height. Other demons in 
plenty may be brought to light by any one who can look about him a little. 
"For thrice ten thousand are there in the all-nourishing earth Of demons 
immortal, the guardians of articulate-speaking men." 
Who these guardians are, do not grudge, O Boeotian, to tell. Is it not clear 
that they are those we have mentioned, and those of more renown, the great 
demons, Apollo, Artemis, Leto, Demeter, Core, Pluto, Hercules, and Zeus himself? 

But it is from running away that they guard us, O Ascraean, or perhaps it is 
from sinning, as forsooth they have never tried their hand at sin themselves! In 
that case verily the proverb may fitly be uttered:- "The father who took no 
admonition admonishes his son." 
If these are our guardians, it is not because they have any ardour of kindly 
feeling towards us, but intent on your ruin, after the manner of flatterers, 
they prey on your substance, enticed by, the smoke. These demons themselves 
indeed confess their own gluttony, saying:- "For with drink-offerings due, and 
fat of lambs, My altar still hath at their hands been fed; Such honour hath to 
us been ever paid. " 
What other speech would they utter, if indeed the gods of the Egyptians, such 
as cats and weasels, should receive the faculty of speech, than that Homeric and 
poetic one which proclaims their liking for savoury odours and cookery? Such are 
your demons and gods, and demigods, if there are any so called, as there are 
demi-asses (mules); for you have no want of terms to make up compound names of 
impiety. 
CHAP. III.--THE CRUELTY OF THE SACRIFICES TO THE GODS. 
Well, now, let us say in addition, what inhuman demons, and hostile to the 
human race, your gods were, not only delighting in the insanity of men, but 
gloating over human slaughter,--now in the armed contests for superiority in the 
stadia, and now in the numberless contests for renown in the wars providing for 
themselves the means of pleasure, that they might be able abundantly to satiate 
themselves with the murder of human beings. 
And now, like plagues invading cities and nations, they demanded cruel 
oblations. Thus Aristomenes the Messenian slew three hundred human beings in 
honour of Ithometan Zeus thinking that hecatombs of such a number and quality 
would give good omens; among whom was Theopompos, king of the Lacedemonians, a 
noble victim. 
The Taurians, the people who inhabit the Tauric Chersonese, sacrifice to the 
Tauric Artemis forthwith whatever strangers they lay hands on on their coasts 
who have been east adrift on the sea. These sacrifices Euripides represents in 
tragedies on the stage. Monimus relates, in his treatise on marvels, that at 
Pella, in Thessaly, a man of Achaia was slain in sacrifice to Peleus and Chiron. 
That the Lyctii, who are a Cretan race, slew men in sacrifice to Zeus, 
Anticlides shows in his Homeward Journeys; and that the Lesbians offered the 
like sacrifice to Dionysus, is said by Dosidas. The Phocaeans also (for I will 
not pass over such as they are), Pytho cles informs us in his third book, On 
Concord, offer a man as a burn-sacrifice to the Taurian Artemis. 
Erechtheus of Attica and Marius the Roman sacrificed their daughters,--the 
former to Pherephatta, as Demaratus mentions in his first book on Tragic 
Streets; the latter to the evil-averting deities, as Dorotheus relates in his 
first book of Italian Affairs. Philanthropic, assuredly, the demons appear, from 
these examples; and how shall those who revere the demons not be correspondingly 
pious? The former are called by the fair name of saviours; and the latter ask 
for safety from those who plot against their safety, imagining that they 
sacrifice with good omens to them, and forget that they themselves are slaying 
men. For a murder does not become a sacrifice by being committed in a particular 
spot. You are not to call it a sacred sacrifice, if one slays a man either at 
the altar or on the highway to Artemis or Zeus, any more than if he slew him for 
anger or covetousness,--other demons very like the former; but a sacrifice of 
this kind is murder and human butchery. Then why is it, O men, wisest of all 
creatures, that you avoid wild beasts, and get out of the way of the savage 
animals, if you fall in with a bear or lion? 
" . . . ..As when some traveller spies, Coiled in his path upon the mountain 
side, A deadly snake, back he recoils in haste,- His limbs all trembling, and 
his cheek all pale," 
But though you perceive and understand demons to be deadly and wicked, 
plotters, haters of the human race, and destroyers, why do you not turn out of 
their way, or turn them out of yours? What truth can the wicked tell, or what 
good can they do any one? 
I can then readily demonstrate that man is better than these gods of yours, 
who are but demons; and can show, for instance, that Cyrus and Solon were 
superior to oracular Apollo. Your Phoebus was a lover of gifts, but not a lover 
of men. 'He betrayed his friend Croesus, and forgetting the reward he had got 
(so careful was he of his fame), led him across the Halys to the stake. 
The demons love men in such a way as to bring them to the fire 
[unquenchable]. 
But O man, who lovest the human race better, and art truer than Apollo, pity 
him that is bound on the pyre. Do thou, O Solon, declare truth; and thou, O 
Cyrus, command the fire to be extinguished. Be wise, then, at last, O 
Croesus, taught by suffering. He whom you worship is an ingrate; he accepts 
your reward, and after taking the gold plays false. "Look again to the end, O 
Solon. It is not the demon, but the man that tells you this. It is not 
ambiguous oracles that Solon utters. You shall easily take him up. Nothing but 
true, O Barbarian, shall you find by proof this oracle to be, when you are 
placed on the pyre. Whence I cannot help wondering, by what plausible reasons 
those who first went astray were impelled to preach superstition to men, when 
they exhorted them to worship wicked demons, whether it was Phoroneus or Merops, 
or whoever else that raised temples and altars to them; and besides, as is 
fabled, were the first to offer sacrifices to them. But, unquestionably, in 
succeeding ages men invented for themselves gods to worship. It is beyond doubt 
that this Eros, who is said to be among the oldest of the gods, was worshipped 
by no one till Charmus took a little boy and raised an altar to him in Academia, 
--a thing more seemly, than the lust he had gratified; and the lewdness of vice 
men called by the name of Eros, deifying thus unbridled lust. The Athenians, 
again, knew not who Pan was till Philippides told them. 
Superstition, then, as was to be expected, having taken its rise thus, became 
the fountain of insensate wickedness; and not being subsequently checked, but 
having gone on augmenting and rushing along in full flood, it became the 
originator of many demons, and was displayed in sacrificing hecatombs, 
appointing solemn assemblies, setting up images, and building temples, which 
were in reality tombs: for I will not pass these over in silence, but make a 
thorough exposure of them, though called by the august name of temples; that is, 
the tombs which got the name of temples. But do ye now at length quite give up 
your superstition, feeling ashamed to regard sepulchres with religious 
veneration. In the temple of Athene in Larissa, on the Acropolis, is the grave 
of Acrisius; and at Athens, on the Acropolis, is that of Cecrops, as Antiochus 
says in the ninth book of his Histories. What of Erichthonius? was he not buried 
in the temple of Polias? And Immarus, the son of Eumolpus and Daira, were they 
not buried in the precincts of the Elusinium, which is under the Acropolis; and 
the daughters of Celeus, were they not interred in Eleusis? Why should I 
enumerate to you the wives of the Hyperboreans? They were called Hyperoche and 
Laodice; they were buried in the Artemisium in Delos, which is in the temple of 
the Delian Apollo. Leandrius says that Clearchus was buried in Miletus, in the 
Didymaeum. Following the Myndian Zeno, it were unsuitable in this connection to 
pass over the sepulchre of Leucophryne, who was buried in the temple of Artemis 
in Magnesia; or the altar of Apollo in Telmessus, which is reported to be the 
tomb of Telmisseus the seer. Further, Ptolemy the son of Agesarchus, in his 
first book about Philopator, says that Cinyras and the descendants of Cinyras 
were interred in the temple of Aphrodite in Paphos. But all time would not be 
sufficient for me, were I to go over the tombs which are held sacred by you, And 
if no shame for these audacious impieties steals over you, it comes to this, 
that you are completely dead, putting, as really you do, your trust in the dead. 
" 
Poor wretches, what misery is this you suffer? 
Your heads axe enveloped in the darkness of night." 
CHAP. IV.--THE ABSURDITY AND SHAMEFULNESS OF THE IMAGES BY WHICH THE GODS ARE 
WORSHIPPED. 
If, in addition, I take and set before you for inspection these very images, 
you will, as you go over them, find how truly silly is the custom in which you 
have been reared, of worshipping the senseless works of men's hands. 
Anciently, then, the Scythians worshipped their sabres, the Arabs stones, the 
Persians rivers. And some, belonging to other races still more ancient, set up 
blocks of wood in conspicuous situations, and erected pillars of stone, which 
were called Xoana, from the carving of the material of which they were made. The 
image of Artemis in Icarus was doubtless unwrought wood, and that of the 
Cithaeronian Here was a felled tree-trunk; and that of the Samian Here, as 
Aethlius says, was at first a plank, and was afterwards during the government of 
Proclus carved into human shape. And when the Xoana began to be made in the 
likeness of men, they got the name of Brete,a term derived from Brotos (man). In 
Rome, the historian Varro says that in ancient times the Xoaron of Mars--the 
idol by which he was worshipped--was a spear, artists not having yet applied 
themselves to this specious pernicious art; but when art flourished, error 
increased. That of stones and stocks--and, to speak briefly, of dead matte--you 
have made images of human form, by which you have produced a counterfeit of 
piety, and slandered the truth, is now as clear as can be; but such proof as the 
point may demand must not be declined. 
That the statue of Zeus at Olympia, and that of Polias at Athens, were 
executed of gold and ivory by Phidias, is known by everybody; and that the image 
of Here in Samos was formed by the chisel of Euclides, Olympichus relates in his 
Samiaca. Do not, then, entertain any doubt, that of the gods called at Athens 
venerable, Scopas made two of the stone called Lychnis, and Calos the one which 
they are reported to have had placed between them, as Polemon shows in the 
fourth of his books addressed to 
Timaeus. Nor need you doubt respecting the images of Zeus and Apollo at 
Patara, in Lycia, which Phidias executed, as well as the lions that recline with 
them; and if, as some say, they were the work of Bryxis, I do not dispute,--you 
have in him another maker of images. Whichever of these you like, write down. 
Furthermore, the statues nine cubits in height of Poseidon and Amphitrite, 
worshipped in Tenos are the work of Telesius the Athenian, as we are told by 
Philochorus. Demetrius, in the second book of his Argolics, writes of the image 
of Here in Tiryns, both that the material was pear-tree and the artist was 
Argus. 
Many, perhaps, may be surprised to learn that the Palladium which is called 
the Diopetes--that is, fallen from heaven--which Diomede and Ulysses are related 
to have carried off from Troy and deposited at Demophoon, was made of the bones 
of Pelops, as the Olympian Jove of other bones--those of the Indian wild beast. 
I adduce as my authority Dionysius, who relates this in the fifth part of his 
Cycle. And Apellas, in the Delphics, says that there were two Palladia, and that 
both were fashioned by men. But that one may suppose that I have passed over 
them through ignorance, I shall add that the image of Dionysus Morychus at 
Athens was made of the stones called Phellata, and was the work of Simon the son 
of Eupalamus, as Polemo says in a letter. There were also two other sculptors of 
Crete, as I think: they were called Scyles and Dipoenus; and these executed the 
statues of the Dioscuri in Argos, and the image of Hercules in Tiryns, and the 
effigy of the Munychian Artemis in Sicyon. Why should I linger over these, when 
I can point out to you the great deity himself, and show you who he was,--whom 
indeed, conspicuously above all, we hear to have been considered worthy of 
veneration? Him they have dared to speak of as made without hands--I mean the 
Egyptian Serapis. For some relate that he was sent as a present by the people of 
Sinope to Ptolemy Philadelphus, king of the Egyptians, who won their favour by 
sending them corn from Egypt when they were perishing with famine; and that this 
idol was an image of Pluto; and Ptolemy, having received the statue, placed it 
on the promontory which is now called Racotis; where the temple of Serapis was 
held in honour, and the sacred enclosure borders on the Spot; and that 
Blistichis the courtesan having died in Canopus, Ptolemy had her conveyed there, 
and buried beneath the forementioned shrine. 
Others say that the Serapis was a Pontic idol, and was transported with 
solemn pomp to Alexandria. Isidore alone says that it was brought from the 
Seleucians, near Antioch, who also had been visited with a dearth of corn, and 
had been fed by Ptolemy. But Athenodorns the son of Sandon, while wishing to 
make out the Serapis to be ancient, has somehow slipped into the mistake of 
proving it to be an image fashioned by human hands. He says that Sesostris the 
Egyptian king, having subjugated the most of the Hellenic races, on his return 
to Egypt brought a number of craftsmen with him. Accordingly he ordered a statue 
of Osiris, his ancestor, to be executed in sumptuous style; and the work was 
done by the artist Bryaxis, not the Athenian, but another of the same name, who 
employed in its execution a mixture of various materials. For he had filings of 
gold, and silver, and lead, and in addition, tin; and of Egyptian stones not one 
was wanting, and there were fragments of sapphire, and hematite, and emerald, 
and topaz. Having ground down and mixed together all these ingredients, he gave 
to the composition a blue colour, whence the darkish hue of the image; and 
having mixed the whole with the colouring matter that was left over from the 
funeral of Osiris and Apis, moulded the Serapis, the name of which points to its 
connection with sepulture and its construction from funeral materials, 
compounded as it is of Osiris and Apis, which together make Osirapis. 
Another new deity was added to the number with great religious pomp in Egypt, 
and was near being so in Greece by the king of the Romans, who deified Antinous, 
whom he loved as Zeus loved Ganymede, and whose beauty was of a very rare order: 
for lust is not easily restrained, destitute as it is of fear; and men now 
observe the sacred nights of Antinous, the shameful character of which the lover 
who spent them with him knew well. Why reckon him among the gods, who is 
honoured on account of uncleanness? And why do you command him to be lamented as 
a son? And why should you enlarge on his beauty? Beauty blighted by vice is 
loathsome. Do not play the tyrant, O man, over beauty, nor offer foul insult to 
youth in its bloom. Keep beauty pure, that it may be truly fair. Be king over 
beauty, not its tyrant. Remain free, and then I shall acknowledge thy beauty, 
because thou hast kept its image pure: then will I worship that true beauty 
which is the archetype of all who are beautiful. Now the grave of the debauched 
boy is the temple and town of Antinous. For just as temples are held in 
reverence, so also are sepulchres, and pyramids, and mausoleums, and labyrinths, 
which are temples of the dead, as the others are sepulchres of the gods. As 
teacher on this point, I shall produce to you the Sibyl prophetess:- "Not the 
oracular lie of Phoebus, Whom silly men called God, and falsely termed Prophet; 
But the oracles of the great God, who was not made by men's hands, Like dumb 
idols of Sculptured stone." 

She also predicts the ruin of the temple, foretelling that that of the 
Ephesian Artemis would be engulphed by earthquakes and rents in the ground, as 
follows:- "Prostrate on the ground Ephesus shall wail, weeping by the shore, And 
seeking a temple that has no longer an inhabit ant." 
She says also that the temple of Isis and Serapis would be demolished and 
burned:- "Isis, thrice-wretched goddess, thou shalt linger by the streams of the 
Nile; Solitary, frenzied, silent, on the sands of Acheron." 
Then she proceeds:- "And thou, Serapis, covered with a heap of white stones, 
Shalt lie a huge ruin in thrice-wretched Egypt." 
But if you attend not to the prophetess, hear at least your own philosopher, 
the Ephesian Heraclitus, upbraiding images with their senselessness: "And to 
these images they pray, with the same result as if one were to talk to the Walls 
of his house." For are they not to be wondered at who worship stones, and place 
them before the doors, as if capable of activity? They worship Hermes as a god, 
and place Aguieus as a doorkeeper. For if people upbraid them with being devoid 
of sensation, why worship them as gods? And if they are thought to be endowed 
with sensation, why place them before the door? The Romans, who ascribed their 
greatest successes to Fortune, and regarded her as a very great deity, took her 
statue to the privy, and erected it there, assigning to the goddess as a fitting 
temple--the necessary. But senseless wood and stone, and rich gold, care not a 
whir for either savoury odour, or blood, or smoke, by which, being at once 
honoured and fumigated, they are blackened; no more do they for honour or 
insult. And these images are more worthless than any animal. I am at a loss to 
conceive how objects devoid of sense were deified, and feel compelled to pity as 
miserable wretches those that wander in the mazes of this folly: for if some 
living creatures have not all the senses, as worms and caterpillars, and such as 
even from the first appear imperfect, as moles and the shrew-mouse, which 
Nicander says is blind and uncouth; yet are they superior to those utterly 
senseless idols and images. For they have some one sense,--say, for example, 
hearing, or touching, or something analogous to smell or taste; while images do 
not possess even one sense. There are many creatures that have neither sight, 
nor hearing, nor speech, such as the genus of oysters, which yet live and grow, 
and are affected by the changes of the moon. But images, being motionless, 
inert, and senseless, are bound, nailed, glued,--are melted, filed, sawed, 
polished, carved. The senseless earth is dishonoured by the makers of images, 
who change it by their art from its proper nature, and induce men to worship it; 
and the makers of gods worship not gods and demons, but in my view earth and 
art, which go to make up images. For, in sooth, the image is only dead matter 
shaped by the craftsman's hand. But we have no sensible image of sensible 
matter, but an image that is perceived by the mind alone,--God, who alone is 
truly God. 
And again, when involved in calamities, the superstitious worshippers of 
stones, though they have learned by the event that senseless matter is not to be 
worshipped, yet, yielding to the pressure of misfortune, become the victims of 
their superstition; and though despising the images, yet not wishing to appear 
wholly to neglect them, are found fault with by those gods by whose names the 
images are called. 
For Dionysius the tyrant, the younger, having stripped off the golden mantle 
from the statue of Jupiter in Sicily, ordered him to be clothed in a woollen 
one, remarking facetiously that the latter was better than the golden one, being 
lighter in summer and warmer in winter. And Antiochus of Cyzicus, being in 
difficulties for money, ordered the golden statue of Zeus, fifteen cubits in 
height, to be melted; and one like it, of less valuable material, plated with 
gold, to be erected in place of it. And the swallows and most birds fly to these 
statues, and void their excrement on them, paying no respect either to Olympian 
Zeus, or Epidaurian Asclepius, or even to Athene Polias, or the Egyptian 
Serapis; but not even from them have you learned the senselessness of images. 
But it has happened that miscreants or enemies have assailed and set fire to 
temples, and plundered them of their votive gifts, and melted even the images 
themselves, from base greed of gain. And if a Cambyses or a Darius, or any other 
madman, has made such attempts, and if one has killed the Egyptian Apis, I laugh 
at him killing their god, while pained at the outrage being perpetrated for the 
sake of gain. I will therefore willingly forget such villany, looking on acts 
like these more as deeds of covetousness, than as a proof of the impotence of 
idols. But fire and earthquakes are shrewd enough not to feel shy or frightened 
at either demons or idols, any more than at pebbles heaped by the waves on the 
shore. 
I know fire to be capable of exposing and curing superstition. If thou art 
willing to abandon this folly, the element of fire shall light thy way. This 
same fire burned the temple in Argos, with Chrysis the priestess; and that of 
Artemis in Ephesus the second time after the Amazons. 

And the Capitol in Rome was often wrapped in flames; nor did the fire spare 
the temple of Serapis, in the city of the Alexandrians. At Athens it demolished 
the temple of the Eleutherian Dionysus; and as to the temple of Apollo at 
Delphi, first a storm assailed it, and then the discerning fire utterly 
destroyed it. This is told as the preface of what the fire promises. And the 
makers of images, do they not shame those of you who are wise into despising 
matter? The Athenian Phidias inscribed on the finger of the Olympian Jove, 
Pantarkes is beautiful. It was not Zeus that was beautiful in his eyes, but the 
man he loved. And Praxiteles, as Posidippus relates in his book about Cnidus, 
when he fashioned the statue of Aphrodite of Cnidus, made it like the form of 
Cratine, of whom he was enamoured, that the miserable people might have the 
paramour of Praxiteles to worship. And when Phryne the courtesan, the Thespian, 
was in her bloom, all the painters made their pictures of Aphrodite copies of 
the beauty of Phryne; as, again, the sculptors at Athens made their Mercuries 
like Alcibiades. It remains for you to judge whether you ought to worship 
cour-tesans. Moved, as I believe, by such facts, and despising such fables, the 
ancient kings unblushingly proclaimed themselves gods, as this involved no 
danger from men, and thus taught that on account of their glory they were made 
immortal. Ceux, the son of Eolus, was styled Zeus by his wife Alcyone; Alcyone, 
again, being by her husband styled Hera. Ptolemy the Fourth was called Dionysus; 
and Mithridates of Pontus was also called Dionysus; and Alexander wished to be 
considered the son of Ammon, and to have his statue made horned by the 
sculptors--eager to disgrace the beauty of the human form by the addition of a 
horn. And not kings only, but private persons dignified themselves with the 
names of deities, as Menecrates the physician, who took the name of Zeus. What 
need is there for me to instance Alexarchus? He, having been by profession a 
grammarian, assumed the character of the sun-god, as Aristus of Salamis relates. 
And why mention Nicagorus? He was a native of Zela [in Pontus], and lived in the 
days of Alexander. Nicagorus was styled Hermes, and used the dress of Hermes, as 
he himself testifies. And whilst whole nations, and cities with all their 
inhabitants, sinking into self-flattery, treat the myths about the gods with 
contempt, at the same time men themselves, assuming the air of equality with the 
gods, and being puffed up with vainglory, vote themselves extravagant honours. 
There is the case of the Macedonian Philip of Pella, the son of Amyntor, to whom 
they decreed divine worship in Cynosargus, although his collar-bone was broken, 
and he had a lame leg, and had one of his eyes knocked out. And again that of 
Demetrius, who was raised to the rank of the gods; and where he alighted from 
his horse on his entrance into Athens is the temple of Demetrius the Alighter; 
and altars were raised to him everywhere, and nuptials with Athene assigned to 
him by the Athenians. But he disdained the goddess, as he could not marry the 
statue; and taking the courtesan Lamia, he ascended the Acropolis, and lay with 
her on the couch of Athene, showing to the old virgin the postures of the young 
courtesan. 
There is no cause for indignation, then, at Hippo, who immortalized his own 
death. For this Hippo ordered the following elegy to be inscribed on his tomb:- 
"This is the sepulchre of Hippo, whom Destiny Made, through death, equal to the 
immortal gods." 
Well done, Hippo! thou showest to us the delusion of men. If they did not 
believe thee speaking, now that thou art dead, let them become thy disciples. 
This is the oracle of Hippo; let us consider it. The objects of your worship 
were once men, and in process of time died; and fable and time have raised them 
to honour. For somehow, what is present is wont to be despised through 
familiarity; but what is past, being separated through the obscurity of time 
from the temporary censure that attached to it, is invested with honour by 
fiction, so that the present is viewed with distrust, the past with admiration. 
Exactly in this way is it, then, that the dead men of antiquity, being 
reverenced through the long prevalence of delusion respecting them, are regarded 
as gods by posterity. As grounds of your belief in these, there are your 
mysteries, your solemn assemblies, bonds and wounds, and weeping deities. 
"Woe, woe! that fate decrees my best-belov'd, Sarpedon, by Patroclus' hand to 
fall." 
The will of Zeus was overruled; and Zeus being worsted, laments for Sarpedon. 
With reason, therefore, have you yourselves called them shades and demons, since 
Homer, paying Athene and the other divinities sinister honour, has styled them 
demons:- "She her heavenward course pursued To join the immortals in the abode 
of Jove." 
How, then, can shades and demons be still reckoned gods, being in reality 
unclean and impure spirits, acknowledged by all to be of an earthly and watery 
nature, sinking downwards by their own weight, and flitting about graves and 
tombs, about which they appear dimly, being but shadowy phantasms? Such things 
are your gods--shades and shadows; and to these add those maimed, wrinkled, 
squinting divinities the Litae, daughters of Thersites rather than of Zeus. So 
that Bion--wittily, as I think--says, How in reason could men pray Zeus for a 
beautiful progeny,--a thing he could not obtain for himself? 
The incorruptible being, as far as in you lies, you sink in the earth; and 
that pure and holy essence you have buried in the grave, robbing the divine of 
its true nature. 
Why, I pray you, have you assigned the prerogatives of God to what are no 
gods? Why, let me ask, have you forsaken heaven to pay divine honour to earth? 
What else is gold, or silver, or steel, or iron, or brass, or ivory, or precious 
stones? Are they not earth, and of the earth? 
Are not all these things which you look on the progeny of one mother--the 
earth? 
Why, then, foolish and silly men (for I will repeat it), have you, defaming 
the supercelestial region, dragged religion to the ground, by fashioning to 
yourselves gods of earth, and by going after those created objects, instead of 
the uncreated Deity, have sunk into deepest darkness? 
The Parian stone is beautiful, but it is not yet Poseidon. The ivory is 
beautiful, but it is not yet the Olympian Zeus. Matter always needs art to 
fashion it, but the deity needs nothing. Art has come forward to do its work, 
and the matter is clothed with its shape; and while the preciousness of the 
material makes it capable of being turned to profitable account, it is only on 
account of its form that it comes to be deemed worthy of veneration. Thy image, 
if considered as to its origin, is gold, it is wood, it is stone, it is earth, 
which has received shape from the artist's hand. But I have been in the habit of 
walking on the earth, not of worshipping it. For I hold it wrong to entrust my 
spirit's hopes to things destitute of the breath of life. We must therefore 
approach as close as possible to the images. How peculiarly inherent deceit is 
in them, is manifest from their very look. For the forms of the images are 
plainly stamped with the characteristic nature of demons. If one go round and 
inspect the pictures and images, he will at a glance recognise your gods from 
their shameful forms: Dionysus from his robe; Hephaestus from his art; Demeter 
from her calamity; Ino from her head-dress; Poseidon from his trident; Zeus from 
the swan; the pyre indicates Heracles; and if one sees a statue of a naked woman 
without an inscription, he understands it to be the golden Aphrodite. Thus that 
Cyprian Pygmalion became enamoured of an image of ivory: the image was 
Aphrodite, and it was nude. The Cyprian is made a conquest of by the mere shape, 
and embraces the image. 
This is related by Philostephanus. A different Aphrodite in Cnidus was of 
stone, and beautiful. Another person became enamoured of it, and shamefully 
embraced the stone. Posidippus relates this. The former of these authors, in his 
book on Cyprus, and the latter in his book on Cnidus. So powerful is art to 
delude, by seducing amorous men into the pit. Art is powerful, but it cannot 
deceive reason, nor those who live agreeably to reason. The doves on the picture 
were represented so to the life by the painter's art, that the pigeons flew to 
them; and horses have neighed to well-executed pictures of mares. They say that 
a girl became enamoured of an image, and a comely youth of the statue at Cnidus. 
But it was the eyes of the spectators that were deceived by art; for no one in 
his senses ever would have embraced a goddess, or entombed himself with a 
lifeless paramour, or become enamoured of a demon and a stone. But it is with a 
different kind of spell that art deludes you, if it leads you not to the 
indulgence of amorous affections: it leads you to pay religious honour and 
worship to images and pictures. 
The picture is like. Well and good! Let art receive its meed of praise, but 
let it not deceive man by passing itself off for truth. The horse stands quiet; 
the dove flutters not, its wing is motionless. But the cow of Daedalus, made of 
wood, allured the savage bull; and art having deceived him, compelled him to 
meet a woman full of licentious passion. Such frenzy have mischief--working arts 
created in the minds of the insensate. On the other hand, apes are admired by 
those who feed and care for them, because nothing in the shape of images and 
girls' ornaments of wax or clay deceives them. You then will show yourselves 
inferior to apes by cleaving to stone, and wood, and gold, and ivory images, and 
to pictures. Your makers of such mischievous toys-- the sculptors and makers of 
images, the painters and workers in metal, and the poets--have introduced a 
motley crowd of divinities: in the fields, Satyrs and Pans; in the woods, 
Nymphs, and Oreads, and Hamadryads; and besides, in the waters, the rivers, and 
fountains, the Naiads; and in the sea the Nereids. And now the Magi boast that 
the demons are the ministers of their impiety, reckoning them among the number 
of their domestics, and by their charms compelling them to be their slaves. 
Besides, the nuptials of the deities, their begetting and bringing forth of 
children that are recounted, their adulteries celebrated in song, their 
carousals represented in comedy, and bursts of laughter over their cups, which 
your authors introduce, urge me to cry out, though I would fain be silent. Oh 
the godlessness! You have turned heaven into a stage; sluggard, as a fountain 
thy harvest shall come," the "Word of the Father, the benign light, the Lord 
that bringeth light, faith to all, and salvation." For "the LORD who created the 
earth by His power," as Jeremiah says, "has raised up the world by His wisdom;" 
for wisdom, which is His word, raises us up to the truth, who have fallen 
prostrate before idols, and is itself the first resurrection from our fall. 
Whence Moses, the man of God, dissuading from all idolatry, beautifully 
exclaims, "Hear, O Israel, the LORD thy God is one LORD; and thou shall worship 
the LORD thy God, and Him only shall thou serve." "Now therefore be wise, O 
men," according to that blessed psalmist David; "lay hold on instruction, lest 
the Lord be angry, and ye perish from the way of righteousness, when His wrath 
has quickly kindled. Blessed are all they who put their trust in Him." But 
already the Lord, in His surpassing pity, has inspired the song of salvation, 
sounding like a battle march, "Sons of men, how long will ye be slow of heart? 
Why do you love vanity, and seek after a lie?" What, then, is the vanity, and 
what the lie? The holy apostle of the Lord, reprehending the Greeks, will show 
thee: "Because that, when they knew God, they glorified Him not as God, neither 
were thankful; but became vain in their imaginations, and changed the glory of 
God into the likeness of corruptible man, and worshipped and served the creature 
more than the Creator." And verily this is the God who "in the beginning made 
the heaven and the earth." But you do not know God, and worship the heaven, and 
how shall you escape the guilt of impiety? Hear again the prophet speaking: "The 
sun, shall suffer eclipse, and the heaven be darkened; but the Almighty shall 
shine for ever: while the powers of the heavens shall be shaken, and the heavens 
stretched out and drawn together shall be rolled as a parchment-skin (for these 
are the prophetic expressions), and the earth shall flee away from before the 
face of the Lord." 
CHAP. IX.--"THAT THOSE GRIEVOUSLY SIN WHO DESPISE OR NEGLECT GOD'S GRACIOUS 
CALLING." 
I could adduce ten thousand Scriptures of which not "one tittle shall pass 
away," without being fulfilled; for the mouth of the Lord the Holy Spirit hath 
spoken these things. "Do not any longer," he says, "my son, despise the 
chastening of the LORD, nor faint when thou art rebuked of Him." O surpassing 
love for man! Not as a teacher speaking to his pupils, not as a master to his 
domestics, nor as God to men, but as a father, does the Lord gently admonish his 
children. Thus Moses confesses that "he was filled with quaking and terror" 
while he listened to God speaking concerning the Word. And art not thou afraid 
as thou hearest the voice of the Divine Word? Art not thou distressed? Do you 
not fear, and hasten to learn of Him,--that is, to salvation,--dreading wrath, 
loving grace, eagerly striving after the hope set before us, that you may shun 
the judgment threatened? Come, come, O my young people! For if you become not 
again as little children, and be born again, as saith the Scripture, you shall 
not receive the truly existent Father, nor shall you ever enter into the kingdom 
of heaven. For in what way is a stranger permitted to enter? Well, as I take it, 
then, when he is enrolled and made a citizen, and receives one to stand to him 
in the relation of father, then will he be occupied with the Father's concerns, 
then shall he be deemed worthy to be made His heir, then will he share the 
kingdom of the Father with His own dear Son. For this is the first-born Church, 
composed of many good children; these are "the first-born enrolled in heaven, 
who hold high festival with so many myriads of angels." We, too, are first-born 
sons, who are reared by God, who are the genuine friends of the First-born, who 
first of all other men attained to the knowledge of God, who first were wrenched 
away from our sins, first severed from the devil. And now the more benevolent 
God is, the more impious men are; for He desires us from slaves to become sons, 
while they scorn to become sons. O the prodigious folly of being ashamed of the 
Lord! He often freedom, you flee into bondage; He bestows salvation, you sink 
down into destruction; He confers everlasting life, you wait for punishment, and 
prefer the fire which the Lord "has prepared for the devil and his angels." 
Wherefore the blessed apostle says: "I testify in the Lord, that ye walk no 
longer as the Gentiles walk, in the vanity of their mind; having their 
understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the 
ignorance that is in them, because of the hardness of their heart: who, being 
past feeling, have given themselves over to lasciviousness, to work all 
uncleanness and concupiscence." After the accusation of such a witness, and his 
invocation of God, what else remains for the unbelieving than judgment and 
condemnation? And the Lord, with ceaseless assiduity, exhorts, terrifies, urges, 
rouses, admonishes; He awakes from the sleep of darkness, and raises up those 
who have wandered in error. "Awake," He says, "thou that sleepest, and arise 
from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light," --Christ, the Sun of the 
Resurrection, He "who was born before the morning star," and with His beams 
bestows life. Let no one then despise the Word, lest he unwittingly despise 
himself. For the Scripture somewhere says, "To-day, if ye will hear His voice, 
harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the 
wilderness, when your fathers proved Me by trial." And what was the trim? If you 
wish to learn, the Holy Spirit will show you: "And saw my works," He says, 
"forty years. Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They do 
always err in heart, and have not known My ways. So I sware in my wrath, they 
shall not enter into My rest." Look to the threatening! Look to the exhortation! 
Look to the punishment! Why, then, should we any longer change grace into wrath, 
and not receive the word with open ears, and entertain God as a guest in pure 
spirits? For great is the grace of His promise, "if to-day we hear His voice." 
And that to-day is lengthened out day by day, while it is called to-day. And to 
the end the to-day and the instruction continue; and then the true to-day, the 
never-ending day of God, extends over eternity. Let us then ever obey the voice 
of the divine word. For the to-day signifies eternity. And day is the symbol of 
light; and the light of men is the Word, by whom we behold God. Rightly, then, 
to those that have believed and obey, grace will superabound; while with those 
that have been unbelieving, and err in heart, and have not known the Lord's 
ways, which John commanded to make straight and to prepare, God is incensed, and 
those He threatens. 
And, indeed, the old Hebrew wanderers in the desert received typically the 
end of the threatening; for they are said not to have entered into the rest, 
because of unbelief, till, having followed the successor of Moses, they learned 
by experience, though late, that they could not be saved otherwise than by 
believing on Jesus. But the Lord, in His love to man, invites all men to the 
knowledge of the truth, and for this end sends the Paraclete. What, then, is 
this knowledge? Godliness; and "godliness," according to Paul, "is profitable 
for all things, having the promise of the life that now is, and of that which is 
to come." If eternal salvation were to be sold, for how much, O men, would you 
propose to purchase it? Were one to estimate the value of the whole of Pactolus, 
the fabulous river of gold, he would not have reckoned up a price equivalent to 
salvation. 
Do not, however, faint. You may, if you choose, purchase salvation, though of 
inestimable value, with your own resources, love and living faith, which will be 
reckoned a suitable price. This recompense God cheerfully accepts; "for we trust 
in the living God, who is the Saviour of all men, especially of those who 
believe." 
But the rest, round whom the world's growths have fastened, as the rocks on 
the sea-shore are covered over with sea-weed, make light of immortality, like 
the old man of Ithaca, eagerly longing to see, not the truth, not the fatherland 
in heaven, not the true light, but smoke. But godliness, that makes man as far 
as can be like God, designates God as our suitable teacher, who alone can 
worthily assimilate man to God. This teaching the apostle knows as truly divine. 
"Thou, O Timothy," he says, "from a child hast known the holy letters, which are 
able to make thee wise unto salvation, through faith that is in Christ Jesus." 
For truly holy are those letters that sanctify and deify; and the writings or 
volumes that consist of those holy letters and syllables, the same apostle 
consequently calls "inspired of God, being profitable for doctrine, for reproof, 
for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be 
perfect, thoroughly furnished to every good work." No one will be so impressed 
by the exhortations of any of the saints, as he is by the words of the Lord 
Himself, the lover of man. For this, and nothing but this, is His only work--the 
salvation of man. Therefore He Himself, urging them on to salvation, cries, "The 
kingdom of heaven is at hand." Those men that draw near through fear, He 
converts. Thus also the apostle of the Lord, beseeching the Macedonians, becomes 
the interpreter of the divine voice, when he says, "The Lord is at hand; take 
care that ye be not apprehended empty." But are ye so devoid of fear, or rather 
of faith, as not to believe the Lord Himself, or Paul, who in Christ's stead 
thus entreats: 
"Taste and see that Christ is God?" Faith will lead you in; experience will 
teach you; Scripture will train you, for it says, "Come hither, O children; 
listen to me, and I will teach you the fear of the LORD." Then, as to those who 
already believe, it briefly adds, "What man is he that desireth life, that 
loveth to see good days?" It is we, we shall say--we who are the devotees of 
good, we who eagerly desire good things. Hear, then, ye who are far off, hear ye 
who are near: the word has not been hidden from any; light is common, it shines 
"on all men." No one is a Cimmerian in respect to the word. Let us haste to 
salvation, to regeneration; let us who are many haste that we may be brought 
together into one love, according to the union of the essential unity; and let 
us, by being made good, conformably follow after union, seeking after the good 
Monad. 
The union of many in one, issuing in the production of divine harmony out of 
a medley of sounds and division, becomes one symphony following one choir-leader 
and teacher, the Word, reaching and resting in the same truth, and crying Abba, 
Father. This, the true utterance of His children, God accepts with gracious 
welcome--the first-fruits He receives from them. 
CHAP. X.-- ANSWER TO THE OBJECTION OF THE HEATHEN, THAT IT WAS NOT RIGHT TO 
ABANDON THE CUSTOMS OF THEIR FATHERS. 
But you say it is not creditable to subvert the customs handed down to us 
from our fathers. And why, then, do we not still use our first nourishment, 
milk, to which our nurses accustomed us from the time of our birth? Why do we 
increase or diminish our patrimony, and not keep it exactly the same as we got 
it? Why do we not still vomit on our parents' breasts, or still do the things 
for which, when infants, and nursed by our mothers, we were laughed at, but have 
corrected ourselves, even if we did not fall in with good instructors? Then, if 
excesses in the indulgence of the passions, though pernicious and dangerous, yet 
are accompanied with pleasure, why do we not in the conduct of life abandon that 
usage which is evil, and provocative of passion, and godless, even should our 
fathers feel hurt, and betake ourselves to the truth, and seek Him who is truly 
our Father, rejecting custom as a deleterious drug? For of all that I have 
undertaken to do, the task I now attempt is the noblest, viz., to demonstrate to 
you how inimical this insane and most wretched custom is to godliness. For a 
boon so great, the greatest ever given by God to the human race, would never 
have been hated and rejected, had not you been carried away by custom, and then 
shut your ears against us; and just as unmanageable horses throw off the reins, 
and take the bit between their teeth, you rush away from the arguments addressed 
to you, in your eager desire to shake yourselves clear of us, who seek to guide 
the chariot of your life, and, impelled by your folly, dash towards the 
precipices of destruction, and regard the holy word of God as an accursed thing. 
The reward of your choice, therefore, as described by Sophocles, follows:- "The 
mind a blank, useless ears, vain thoughts." 
And you know not that, of all truths, this is the truest, that the good and 
godly shall obtain the good reward, inasmuch as they held goodness in high 
esteem; while, on the other hand, the wicked shall receive meet punishment. For 
the author of evil, torment has been prepared; and so the prophet Zecharias 
threatens him: "He that hath chosen Jerusalem rebuke thee; lo, is not this a 
brand plucked from the fire?" What an infatuated desire, then, for voluntary 
death is this, rooted in men's minds! Why do they flee to this fatal brand, with 
which they shall be burned, when it is within their power to live nobly 
according to God, and not according to custom? For God bestows life freely; but 
evil custom, after our departure from this world, brings on the sinner 
unavailing remorse with punishment. By sad experience, even a child knows how 
superstition destroys and piety saves. Let any of you look at those who minister 
before the idols, their hair matted, their persons disgraced with filthy and 
tattered clothes; who never come near a bath, and let their nails grow to an 
extraordinary length, like wild beasts; many of them castrated, who show the 
idol's temples to be in reality graves or prisons. These appear to me to bewail 
the gods, not to worship them, and their sufferings to be worthy of pity rather 
than piety. And seeing these things, do you still continue blind, and will you 
not look up to the Ruler of all, the Lord of the universe? And will you not 
escape from those dungeons, and flee to the mercy that comes down from heaven? 
For God, of His great love to man, comes to the help of man, as the mother-bird 
flies to one of her young that has fallen out of the nest; and if a serpent open 
its mouth to swallow the little bird, "the mother flutters round, uttering cries 
of grief over her dear progeny;" and God the Father seeks His creature, and 
heals his transgression, and pursues the serpent, and recovers the young one, 
and incites it to fly up to the nest. 
Thus dogs that have strayed, track out their master by the scent; and horses 
that have thrown their riders, come to their master's call if he but whistle. 
"The ox," it is said, "knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib; but 
Israel hath not known Me." What, then, of the Lord? He remembers not our ill 
desert; He still pities, He still urges us to repentance. 

And I would ask you, if it does not appear to you monstrous, that you men who 
are God's handiwork, who have received your souls from Him, and belong wholly to 
God, should be subject to another master, and, what is more, serve the tyrant 
instead of the rightful King--the evil one instead of the good? For, in the name 
of truth, what man in his senses turns his back on good, and attaches himself to 
evil? What, then, is he who flees from God to consort with demons? Who, that may 
become a son of God, prefers to be in bondage? Or who is he that pursues his way 
to Erebus, when it is in his power to be a citizen of heaven, and to cultivate 
Paradise, and walk about in heaven and partake of the tree of life and 
immortality, and, cleaving his way through the sky in the track of the luminous 
cloud, behold, like Elias, the rain of salvation? Some there are, who, like 
worms wallowing in marshes and mud in the streams of pleasure, feed on foolish 
and useless delights--swinish men. For swine, it is said, like mud better than 
pure water; and, according to Democritus, "doat upon dirt." 
Let us not then be enslaved or become swinish; but, as true children of the 
light, let us raise our eyes and look on the light, lest the Lord discover us to 
be spurious, as the sun does the eagles. Let us therefore repent, and pass from 
ignorance to knowledge, from foolishness to wisdom, from licentiousness to 
self-restraint, from unrighteousness to righteousness, from godlessness to God. 
It is an enterprise of noble daring to take our way to God; and the enjoyment of 
many other good things is within the reach of the lovers of righteousness, who 
pursue eternal life, specially those things to which God Himself alludes, 
speaking by Isaiah: "There is an inheritance for those who serve the LORD." 
Noble and desirable is this inheritance: not gold, not silver, not raiment, 
which the moth assails, and things of earth which are assailed by the robber, 
whose eye is dazzled by worldly wealth; but it is that treasure of salvation to 
which we must hasten, by becoming lovers of the Word. Thence praise-worthy works 
descend to us, and fly with us on the wing of truth. This is the inheritance 
with Which the eternal covenant of God invests us, conveying the everlasting 
gift of grace; and thus our loving Father--the true Father--ceases not to 
exhort, admonish, train, love us. For He ceases not to save, and advises the 
best course: "Become righteous," says the Lord. Ye that thirst, come to the 
water; and ye that have no money, come, and buy and drink without money. He 
invites to the layer, to salvation, to illumination, all but crying out and 
saying, The land I give thee, and the sea, my child, and heaven too; and all the 
living creatures in them I freely bestow upon thee. Only, O child, thirst for 
thy Father; God shall be revealed to thee without price; the truth is not made 
merchandise of. He gives thee all creatures that fly and swim, and those on the 
land. These the Father has created for thy thankful enjoyment. What the bastard, 
who is a son of perdition, foredoomed to be the slave of mammon, has to buy for 
money, He assigns to thee as thine own, even to His own son who loves the 
Father; for whose sake He still works, and to whom alone He promises, saying, 
"The land shall not be sold in perpetuity," for it is not destined to 
corruption. "For the whole land is mine;" and it is thine too, if thou receive 
God. Wherefore the Scripture, as might have been expected, proclaims good news 
to those who have believed. "The saints of the Lord shall inherit the glory of 
God and His power." What glory, tell me, O blessed One, which "eye hath not 
seen, nor ear heard, nor hath it entered into the heart of man;" and "they shall 
be glad in the kingdom of their Lord for ever and ever! Amen." You have, O men, 
the divine promise of grace; you have heard, on the other hand, the threatening 
of punishment: by these the Lord saves, teaching men by fear and grace. Why do 
we delay? Why do we not shun the punishment? Why do we not receive the free 
gift? 
Why, in fine. do we not choose the better part, God instead of the evil one, 
and prefer wisdom to idolatry, and take life in exchange for death? "Behold," 
He says, "I have set before your face death and life." The Lord tries you, 
that "you may choose life." He counsels yon as a father to obey God. "For if ye 
hear Me," He says, "and be willing, ye shall eat the good things of the land:" 
this is the grace attached to obedience. "But if ye obey Me not, and are 
unwilling, the sword and fire shall devour you:" this is the penalty of 
disobedience. For the mouth of the Lord--the law of truth, the word of the 
Lord--hath spoken these things. Are you willing that I should be your good 
counsellor? Well, do you hear. I, if possible, will explain. You ought, O men, 
when reflecting on the Good, to have brought forward a witness inborn and 
competent, viz, faith, which of itself, and from its own resources, chooses at 
once what is best, instead of occupying yourselves in painfully inquiring 
whether what is best ought to be followed. For, allow me to tell you, you ought 
to doubt whether you should get drunk, but you get drunk before reflecting on 
the matter; and whether you ought to do an injury, but you do injury with the 
utmost readiness. The only thing you make the subject of question is, whether 
God should be worshipped, and whether this wise God and Christ should be 
followed: and this you think requires deliberation and doubt, and know not what 
is worthy of God. Have faith in us, as you have in drunkenness, that you may be 
wise; have faith in us, as you have in injury, that you may live. But if, 
acknowledging the conspicuous trustworthiness of the virtues, you wish to trust 
them, come and I will set before you in abundance, materials of persuasion 
respecting the Word. But do you--for your ancestral customs, by which your minds 
are preoccupied, divert you from the truth,--do you now hear what is the real 
state of the case as follows. 
And let not any shame of this name preoccupy you, which does great harm to 
men, and seduces them from salvation. Let us then openly strip for the contest, 
and nobly strive in the arena of truth, the holy Word being the judge, and the 
Lord of the universe prescribing the contest. For 'tis no insignificant prize, 
the guerdon of immortality which is set before us. Pay no more regard, then, if 
you are rated by some of the low rabble who lead the dance of impiety, and are 
driven on to the same pit by their folly and insanity, makers of idols and 
worshippers of stones. For these have dared to deify men,--Alexander of Macedon, 
for example, whom they canonized as the thirteenth god, whose pretensions 
Babylon confuted, which showed him dead. I admire, therefore, the divine 
sophist. Theocritus was his name. After Alexander's death, Theocritus, holding 
up the vain opinions entertained by men respecting the gods, to ridicule before 
his fellow-citizens, said: "Men, keep up your hearts as long as you see the gods 
dying sooner than men." And, truly, he who worships gods that are visible, and 
the promiscuous rabble of creatures begotten and born, and attaches himself to 
them, is a far more wretched object than the very demons. For God is by no 
manner of means unrighteous, as the demons are, but in the very highest degree 
righteous; and nothing more resembles God than one of us when he becomes 
righteous in the highest possible degree:- "Go into the way, the whole tribe of 
you handicrafts-men, Who worship Jove's fierce-eyed daughter, the working 
goddess, With fans duly placed, fools that ye are"- fashioners of stones, and 
worshippers of them. Let your Phidias, and Polycletus, and your Praxiteles and 
Apelles too, come, and all that are engaged in mechanical arts, who, being 
themselves of the earth, are workers of the earth. "For then," says a certain 
prophecy, "the affairs here turn out unfortunately, when men put their trust in 
images." Let the meaner artists, too--for I will not stop calling--come. None of 
these ever made a breathing image, or out of earth moulded soft flesh. Who 
liquefied the marrow? or who solidified the bones? Who stretched the nerves? who 
distended the veins? Who poured the blood into them? Or who spread the skin? Who 
ever could have made eyes capable of seeing? Who breathed spirit into the 
lifeless form? Who bestowed righteousness? Who promised immortality? The Maker 
of the universe alone; the Great Artist and Father has formed us, such a living 
image as man is. But your Olympian Jove, the image of an image, greatly out of 
harmony with truth, is the senseless work of Attic hands. For the image of God 
is His Word, the genuine Son of Mind, the Divine Word, the archetypal light of 
light; and the image of the Word is the true man, the mind which is in man, who 
is therefore said to have been made "in the image and likeness of God," 
assimilated to the Divine Word in the affections of the soul, and therefore 
rational; but effigies sculptured in human form, the earthly image of that part 
of man which is visible and earth-born, are but a perishable impress of 
humanity, manifestly wide of the truth. That life, then, which is occupied with 
so much earnestness about matter, seems to me to be nothing else than full of 
insanity. And custom, which has made you taste bondage and unreasonable care, is 
fostered by vain opinion; and ignorance, which has proved to the human race the 
cause of unlawful rites and delusive shows, and also of deadly plagues and 
hateful images, has, by devising many shapes of demons, stamped on all that 
follow it the mark of long-continued death. 
Receive, then, the water of the word; wash, ye polluted ones; purify 
yourselves from custom, by sprinkling yourselves with the drops of truth. 
The pure must ascend to heaven. Thou art a man, if we look to that which is 
most common to thee and others--seek Him who created thee; thou art a son, if we 
look to that which is thy peculiar prerogative--acknowledge thy Father. But do 
you still continue in your sins, engrossed with pleasures? To whom shall the 
Lord say, "Yours is the kingdom of heaven?" Yours, whose choice is set on God, 
if you will; yours, if you will only believe, and comply with the brief terms of 
the announcement; which the Ninevites having obeyed, instead of the destruction 
they looked for, obtained a signal deliverance. How, then, may I ascend to 
heaven, is it said? The Lord is the way; a strait way, but leading from heaven, 
strait in truth, but leading back to heaven, strait, despised on earth; broad, 
adored in heaven. 
Then, he that is uninstructed in the word, has ignorance as the excuse of his 
error; but as for him into whose ears instruction has been poured, and who 
deliberately maintains his incredulity in his soul, the wiser he appears to be, 
the more harm will his understanding do him; for he has his own sense as his 
accuser for not having chosen the best part. For man has been otherwise 
constituted by nature, so as to have fellowship with God. As, then, we do not 
compel the horse to plough, or the bull to hunt, but set each animal to that for 
which it is by nature fitted; so, placing our finger on what is man's peculiar 
and distinguishing characteristic above other creatures, we invite him--born, as 
he is, for the contemplation of heaven, and being, as he is, a truly heavenly 
plant--to the knowledge of God, counselling him to furnish himself with what is 
his sufficient provision for eternity, namely piety. Practise husbandry, we say, 
if you are a husbandman; but while you till your fields, know God. Sail the sea, 
you who are devoted to navigation, yet call the whilst on the heavenly Pilot. 
Has knowledge taken hold of you while engaged in military service? Listen to the 
commander, who orders what is right. As those, then, who have been overpowered 
with sleep and drunkenness, do ye awake; and using your eyes a little, consider 
what mean those stones which you worship, and the expenditure you frivolously 
lavish on matter. Your means and substance you squander on ignorance, even as 
you throw away your lives to death, having found no other end of your vain hope 
than this. Not only unable to pity yourselves, you are incapable even of 
yielding to the persuasions of those who commiserate you; enslaved as you are to 
evil custom, and, clinging to it voluntarily till your last breath, you are 
hurried to destruction: "because light is come into the world, and men have 
loved the darkness rather than the light," while they could sweep away those 
hindrances to salvation, pride, and wealth, and fear, repeating this poetic 
utterance:- "Whither do I bear these abundant riches? and whither Do I myself 
wander?" 
If you wish, then, to cast aside these vain phantasies, and bid adieu to evil 
custom, say to vain opinion:- "Lying dreams, farewell; you were then nothing." 
For what, think you, O men, is the Hermes of Typho, and that of Andocides, 
and that of Amyetus? Is it not evident to all that they are stones, as is the 
veritable Hermes himself? As the Halo is not a god, and as the Iris is not a 
god, but are states of the atmosphere and of the clouds; and as, likewise, a day 
is not a god, nor a year, nor time, which is made up of these, so neither is sun 
nor moon, by which each of those mentioned above is determined. Who, then, in 
his right senses, can imagine Correction, and Punishment, and Justice, and 
Retribution to be gods? For neither the Furies, nor the Fates, nor Destiny are 
gods, since neither Government, nor Glory, nor Wealth are gods, which last [as 
Plutus] painters represent as blind. But if you deify Modesty, and Love, and 
Venus, let these be followed by Infamy, and Passion, and Beauty, and 
Intercourse. Therefore Sleep and Death cannot reasonably any more be regarded as 
twin deities, being merely changes which take place naturally in living 
creatures; no more will you with propriety call Fortune, or Destiny, or the 
Fates goddesses. And if Strife and Battle be not gods, no more are Ares and 
Enyo. Still further, if the lightnings, and thunderbolts, and rains are not 
gods, how can fire and water be gods? how can shooting stars and comets, which 
are produced by atmospheric changes? He who calls Fortune a god, let him also so 
call Action. If, then, none of these, nor of the images formed by human hands, 
and destitute of feeling, is held to be a God, while a providence exercised 
about us is evidently the result of a divine power, it remains only to 
acknowledge this, that He alone who is truly God, only truly is and subsists. 
But those who are insensible to this are like men who have drunk mandrake or 
some other drug. May God grant that you may at length awake from this slumber, 
and know God; and that neither Gold, nor Stone, nor Tree, nor Action, nor 
Suffering, nor Disease, nor Fear, may appear in your eyes as a god. For there 
are, in sooth, "on the fruitful earth thrice ten thousand" demons, not immortal, 
nor indeed mortal; for they are not endowed with sensation, so as to render them 
capable of death, but only things of wood and stone, that hold despotic sway 
over men insulting and violating life through the force of custom. "The earth is 
the LORD'S," it is said, "and the fulness thereof." Then why darest thou, while 
luxuriating in the bounties of the Lord, to ignore the Sovereign Ruler? "Leave 
my earth," the Lord will say to thee. "Touch not the water which I bestow. 
Partake not of the fruits of the earth produced by my hus bandry." Give to God 
recompense for your sustenance; acknowledge thy Master. Thou art God's creature. 
What belongs to Him, how can it with justice be alienated? For that which is 
alienated, being deprived of the properties that belonged to it, is also 
deprived of truth. For, after the fashion of Niobe, or, to express myself more 
mystically, like the Hebrew woman called by the ancients Lot's wife, are ye not 
turned into a state of insensibility? This woman we have heard, was turned into 
stone for her love of Sodore. And those who are godless, addicted to impiety, 
hard-hearted and foolish are Sodomites. Believe that these utterances are 
addressed to you from God. For think not that stones, and stocks, and birds, and 
serpents are sacred things, and men are not; but, on the contrary, regard men as 
truly sacred, and take beasts and stones for what they are. For there are 
miserable wretches of human kind, who consider that God utters His voice by the 
raven and the jackdaw, but says nothing by man; and honour the raven as a 
messenger of God. But the man of God, who croaks not, nor chatters, but speaks 
rationally and instructs lovingly, alas, they persecute; and while he is 
inviting them to cultivate righteousness, they try inhumanly to slay him, 
neither welcoming the grace which, comes from above, nor fearing the penalty. 
For they believe not God, nor understand His power, whose love to man is 
ineffable; and His hatred of evil is inconceivable. His anger augments 
punishment against sin; His love bestows bless-rags on repentance. It is the 
height of wretchedness to be deprived of the help which comes from God. Hence 
this blindness of eyes and dulness of hearing are more grievous than other 
inflictions of the evil one; for the one deprives them of heavenly vision, the 
other robs them of divine instruction. But ye, thus maimed as respects the 
truth, blind in mind, deaf in understanding, are not grieved, are not pained, 
have had no desire to see heaven and the Maker of heaven, nor, by fixing your 
choice on salvation, have sought to hear the Creator of the universe, and to 
learn of Him; for no hindrance stands in the way of him who is bent on the 
knowledge of God. Neither childlessness, nor poverty, nor obscurity, nor want, 
can hinder him who eagerly strives after the knowledge of God; nor does any one 
who has conquered by brass or iron the true wisdom for himself choose to 
exchange it, for it is vastly preferred to everything else. Christ is able to 
save in every place. For he that is fired with ardour and admiration for 
righteousness, being the lover of One who needs nothing, needs himself but 
little, having treasured up his bliss in nothing but himself and God, where is 
neither moth, robber, nor pirate, but the eternal Giver of good. With justice, 
then, have you been compared to those serpents who shut their ears against the 
charmers. For "their mind," says the Scripture, "is like the serpent, like the 
deaf adder, which stoppeth her ear, and will not hear the voice of the 
charmers." But allow yourselves to feel the influence of the charming strains of 
sanctity, and receive that mild word of ours, and reject the deadly poison, that 
it may be granted to you to divest yourselves as much as possible of 
destruction, as they s have been divested of old age. Hear me, and do not stop 
your ears; do not block up the avenues of hearing, but lay to heart what is 
said. Excellent is the medicine of immortality! Stop at length your grovelling 
reptile motions. "For the enemies of the Lord," says Scripture, "shall lick the 
dust." Raise your eyes from earth to the skies, look up to heaven, admire the 
sight, cease watching with outstretched head the heel of the righteous, and 
hindering the way of truth. Be wise and harmless. 
Perchance the Lord will endow you with the wing of simplicity (for He has 
resolved to give wings to those that are earth-born), that you may leave your 
holes and dwell in heaven. Only let us with our whole heart repent, that we may 
be able with our whole heart to contain God. "Trust in Him, all ye assembled 
people; pour out all your hearts before Him." He says to those that have newly 
abandoned wickedness, "He pities them, and fills them with righteousness." 
Believe Him who is man and God; believe, O man. Believe, O man, the living God, 
who suffered and is adored. Believe, ye slaves, Him who died; believe, all ye of 
human kind, Him who alone is God of all men. 
Believe, and receive salvation as your reward. Seek God, and your soul shall 
live. He who seeks God is busying himself about his own salvation. Hast thou 
found God?--then thou hast life. Let us then seek, in order that we may live. 
The reward of seeking is life with God. "Let all who seek Thee be glad and 
rejoice in Thee; and let them say continually, God be magnified." A noble hymn 
of God is an immortal man, established in righteousness, in whom the oracles of 
truth are engraved. For where but in a soul that is wise can you write truth? 
where love? where reverence? where meekness? Those who have had these divine 
characters impressed on them, ought, I think, to regard wisdom as a fair port 
whence to embark, to whatever lot in life they turn; and likewise to deem it the 
calm haven of salvation: wisdom, by which those who have betaken themselves to 
the Father, have proved good fathers to their children; and good parents to 
their sons, those who have known the Son; and good husbands to their wives, 
those who remember the Bridegroom; and good masters to their servants, those who 
have been redeemed from utter slavery. Oh, happier far the beasts than men 
involved in error! who live in ignorance as you, but do not counterfeit the 
truth. There are no tribes of flatterers among them. Fishes have no 
superstition: the birds worship not a single image; only they look with 
admiration on heaven, since, deprived as they are of reason, they are unable to 
know God. So are you not ashamed for living through so many periods of life in 
impiety, making yourselves more irrational than irrational creatures? You were 
boys, then striplings, then youths, then men, but never as yet were you good. If 
you have respect for old age, be wise, now that you have reached life's sunset; 
and albeit at the close of life, acquire the knowledge of God, that the end of 
life may to you prove the beginning of salvation. You have become old in 
superstition; as young, enter on the practice of piety. God regards you as 
innocent children. Let, then, the Athenian follow the laws of Solon, and the 
Argive those of Phoroneus, and the Spartan those of Lycurgus: but if thou enrol 
thyself as one of God's people, heaven is thy country, God thy lawgiver. And 
what are the laws? "Thou shalt not kill; thou shalt not commit adultery; thou 
shalt not seduce boys; thou shalt not steal; thou shalt not bear false witness; 
thou shalt love the Lord thy God." And the complements of these are those laws. 
of reason and words of sanctity which are inscribed on men's hearts: "Thou shalt 
love thy neighbour as thyself; to him who strikes thee on the cheek, present 
also the other;" "thou shalt not lust, for by lust alone thou hast committed 
adultery." How much better, therefore, is it for men from the beginning not to 
wish to desire things forbidden, than to obtain their desires! But ye are not 
able to endure the austerity of salvation; but as we delight in sweet' things, 
and prize them higher for the agreeableness of the pleasure they yield, while, 
on the other hand, those bitter things which are distasteful to the palate are 
curative and healing, and the harshness of medicines strengthens people of weak 
stomach, thus custom pleases and, tickles; but custom pushes into the abyss, 
while truth conducts to heaven. Harsh it is at first, but a good nurse of youth; 
and it is at once the decorous place where the household maids and matrons dwell 
together, and the sage council-chamber. Nor is it difficult to approach, or 
impossible to attain, but is very near us in our very homes; as Moses, endowed 
with all wisdom, says, while referring to it, it has its abode in three 
departments of our constitution--in the hands, the mouth, and the heart: a meet 
emblem this of truth, which is embraced by these three things in all--will, 
action, speech. And be not afraid lest the multitude of pleasing objects which 
rise before you withdraw you from wisdom. You yourself will spontaneously 
surmount the frivolousness of custom, as boys when they have become men throw 
aside their toys. For with a celerity unsurpassable, and a benevolence to which 
we have ready access, the divine power, casting its radiance on the earth, hath 
filled the universe with the seed of salvation. For it was not without divine 
care that so great a work was accomplished in so brief a space by the Lord, who, 
though despised as to appearance, was in reality adored, the expiator of sin, 
the Saviour, the clement, the Divine Word, He that is truly most manifest Deity, 
He that is made equal to the Lord of the universe; because He was His Son, and 
the Word was in God, not disbelieved in by all when He was first preached, nor 
altogether unknown when, assuming the character of man, and fashioning Himself 
in flesh, He enacted the drama of human salvation: for He was a true champion 
and a fellow-champion with the creature. And being communicated most speedily to 
men, having dawned from His Father's counsel quicker than the sun, with the most 
perfect ease He made God shine on us. Whence He was and what He was, He showed 
by what He taught and exhibited, manifesting Himself as the Herald of the 
Covenant, the Reconciler, our Saviour, the Word, the Fount of life, the Giver of 
peace, diffused over the whole face of the earth; by whom, so to speak, the 
universe has already become an ocean of blessings. 
CHAP. XI.--HOW GREAT ARE THE BENEFITS CONFERRED ON MAN THROUGH THE ADVENT OF 
Contemplate a little, if agreeable to you, the divine beneficence. The first 
man, when in Paradise, sported free, because he was the child of God; but when 
he succumbed to pleasure (for the serpent allegorically signifies pleasure 
crawling on its belly, earthly wickedness nour ished for fuel to the flames), 
was as a child seduced by lusts, and grew old in disobedience; and by disobeying 
his Father, dishonoured God. Such was the influence of pleasure. Man, that had 
been free by reason of simplicity, was found fettered to sins. The Lord then 
wished to release him from his bonds, and clothing Himself with flesh--O divine 
mystery!--vanquished the serpent, and enslaved the tyrant death; and, most 
marvellous of all, man that had been deceived by pleasure, and bound fast by 
corruption, had his hands unloosed, and was set free. O mystic wonder! The Lord 
was laid low, and man rose up; and he that fell from Paradise receives as the 
reward of obedience something greater [than Paradise]--namely, heaven itself. 
Wherefore, since the Word Himself has come to us from heaven, we need not, I 
reckon, go any more in search of human learning to Athens and the rest of 
Greece, and to Ionia. For if we have as our teacher Him that filled the universe 
with His holy energies in creation, salvation, beneficence, legislation, 
prophecy, teaching, we have the Teacher from whom all instruction comes; and the 
whole world, with Athens and Greece, has already become the domain of the Word. 
For you, who believed the poetical fable which designated Minos the Cretan as 
the bosom friend of Zeus, will not refuse to believe that we who have become the 
disciples of God have received the only true wisdom; and that which the chiefs 
of philosophy only guessed at, the disciples of Christ have both apprehended and 
proclaimed. And the one whole Christ is not divided: "There is neither 
barbarian, nor Jew, nor Greek, neither male nor female, but a new man," 
transformed by God's Holy Spirit. Further, the other counsels and precepts are 
unimportant, and respect particular things,--as, for example, if one may marry, 
take part in public affairs, beget children; but the only command that is 
universal, and over the whole course of existence, at all times and in all 
circumstances, tends to the highest end, viz., life, is piety, --all that is 
necessary, in order that we may live for ever, being that we live in accordance 
with it. Philosophy, however, as the ancients say, is "a long-lived exhortation, 
wooing the eternal love of wisdom;" while the commandment of the Lord is 
far-shining, "enlightening the eyes." Receive Christ, receive sight, receive thy 
light, "In order that you may know well both God and man." 
"Sweet is the Word that gives us light, precious above gold and gems; it is 
to be desired above honey and the honey-comb." 
For how can it be other than desirable, since it has filled with light the 
mind which had been buried in darkness, and given keenness to the 
"light-bringing eyes" of the soul? For just as, had the sun not been in 
existence, night would have brooded over the universe notwithstanding the other 
luminaries of heaven; so, had we nor known the Word, and been illuminated by 
Him; we should have been nowise different from fowls that are being fed, 
fattened in darkness, and nourished for death. Let us then admit the light, that 
we may admit God; let us admit the light, and become disciples to the Lord. 
This, too, He has been promised to the Father: "I will declare Thy name to my 
brethren; in the midst of the Church will I praise Thee." 
Praise and declare to me Thy Father God; Thy utterances save; Thy hymn 
teaches that hitherto I have wandered in error, seeking God. But since Thou 
leadest me to the light, O Lord, and I find God through Thee, and receive the 
Father from Thee, I become "Thy fellow-heir," since Thou "weft not ashamed of me 
as Thy brother." Let us put away, then, let us put away oblivion of the truth, 
viz., ignorance; and removing the darkness which obstructs, as dimness of sight, 
let us contemplate the only true God, first raising our voice in this hymn of 
praise: Hail, O light! For in us, buried in darkness, shut up in the shadow of 
death, light has shone forth from heaven, purer than the sun, sweeter than life 
here below. That light is eternal life; and whatever partakes of it lives. But 
night fears the light, and hiding itself in terror, gives place to the day of 
the Lord. Sleepless light is now over all, and the west has given credence to 
the east. For this was the end of the new creation. For "the Sun of 
Righteousness," who drives His chariot over all, pervades equally all humanity, 
like "His Father, who makes His sun to rise on all men," and distils on them the 
dew of the truth. He hath changed sunset into sunrise, and through the cross 
brought death to life; and having wrenched man from destruction, He hath raised 
him to the skies, transplanting mortality into immortality, and translating 
earth to heaven--He, the husbandman of God, "Pointing out the favourable signs 
and rousing the nations To good works, putting them in mind of the true 
sustenance;" having bestowed on us the truly great, divine, and inalienable 
inheritance of the Father, deifying man by heavenly teaching, putting His laws 
into our minds, and writing them on our hearts. What laws does He inscribe? 
"That all shall know God, from small to great;" and, "I will be merciful to 
them," says God, "and will not remember their sins." Let us receive the laws of 
life, let us comply with God's expostulations; let us become acquainted with 
Him, that He may be gracious. And though God needs nothing let us render to Him 
the grateful recompense of a thankful heart and of piety, as a kind of 
house-rent for our dwelling here below. 
"Gold for brass, A hundred oxen's worth for that of nine;" that is, for your 
little faith He gives you the earth of so great extent to till, water to drink 
and also to sail on, air to breathe, fire to do your work, a world to dwell in; 
and He has permitted you to conduct a colony from here to heaven: with these 
important works of His hand, and benefits in such numbers, He has rewarded your 
little faith. Then, those who have put faith in necromancers, receive from them 
amulets and charms, to ward off evil forsooth; and will you not allow the 
heavenly Word, the Saviour, to be bound on to you as an amulet, and, by trusting 
in God's own charm, be delivered from passions which are the diseases of the 
mind, and rescued from sin?--for sin is eternal death. Surely utterly dull and 
blind, and, like moles, doing nothing but eat, you spend your lives in darkness, 
surrounded with corruption. But it is truth which cries, "The light shall shine 
forth from the darkness." Let the light then shine in the hidden part of man, 
that is, the heart; and let the beams of knowledge arise to reveal and irradiate 
the hidden inner man, the disciple of the Light, the familiar friend and 
fellow-heir of Christ; especially now that we have come to know the most 
precious and venerable name of the good Father, who to a pious and good child 
gives gentle counsels, and commands what is salutary for His child. He who obeys 
Him has the advantage in all things, follows God, obeys the Father, knows Him 
through wandering, loves God, loves his neighbour, fulfils the commandment, 
seeks the prize, claims the promise. But it has been God's fixed and constant 
purpose to save the flock of men: for this end the good God sent the good 
Shepherd. And the Word, having unfolded the truth, showed to men the height of 
salvation, that either repenting they might be saved, or refusing to obey, they 
might be judged. This is the proclamation of righteousness: to those that obey, 
glad tidings; to those that disobey, judgment. The loud trumpet, when sounded, 
collects the soldiers, and proclaims war. And shall not Christ, breathing a 
strain of peace to the ends of the earth, gather together His own soldiers, the 
soldiers of peace? Well, by His blood, and by the word, He has gathered the 
bloodless host of peace, and assigned to them the kingdom of heaven. The trumpet 
of Christ is His Gospel. He hath blown it, and we have heard. "Let us array 
ourselves in the armour of peace, putting on the breastplate of righteousness, 
and taking the shield of faith, and binding our brows with the helmet, of 
salvation; and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God," let us 
sharpen. So the apostle in the spirit of peace commands. These are our 
invulnerable weapons: armed with these, let us face the evil one; "the fiery 
darts of the evil one" let us quench with the sword-points dipped in water, 
that, have been baptized by the Word, returning grateful thanks for the benefits 
we have received, and honouring God through the Divine Word. "For while thou art 
yet speaking," it is said, "He will say, Behold, I am beside thee." O this holy 
and blessed power, by which God has fellowship with men! Better far, then, is it 
to become at once the imitator and the servant of the best of all beings; for 
only by holy service will any one be able to imitate God, and to serve and 
worship Him only by imitating Him. The heavenly and truly divine love comes to 
men thus, when in the soul itself the spark of true goodness, kindled in the 
soul by the Divine Word, is able to burst forth into flame; and, what is of the 
highest importance, salvation runs parallel with sincere willingness--choice and 
life being, so to speak, yoked together. Wherefore this exhortation of the truth 
alone, like the most faithful of our friends, abides with us till our last 
breath, and is to the whole and perfect spirit of the soul the kind attendant on 
our ascent to heaven. What, then, is the exhortation I give you? I urge you to 
be saved. This Christ desires. In one word. He freely bestows life on you. And 
who is He? Briefly learn. The Word of truth, the Word of incorruption, that 
regenerates man by bringing him back to the truth--the goad that urges to 
salvation t He who expels destruction and pursues death--He who builds up the 
temple of God in men, that He may cause God to take up His abode in men. 
Cleanse the temple; and pleasures and amusements abandon to the winds and the 
fire, as a fading flower; but wisely cultivate the fruits of self-command, and 
present thyself to God as an offering of first-fruits, that there may be not the 
work alone, but also the grace of God; and both are requisite, that the friend 
of Christ may be rendered worthy of the kingdom, and be counted worthy of the 
kingdom. 

CHAP. XII.--EXHORTATION TO ABANDON THEIR OLD ERRORS AND LISTEN TO THE 
INSTRUCTIONS OF CHRIST. 
Let us then avoid custom as we would a dangerous headland, or the threatening 
Charybdis, or the mythic sirens. It chokes man, turns him away from truth, leads 
him away from life: custom is a snare, a gulf, a pit, a mischievous winnowing 
fan. 
"Urge the ship beyond that smoke and billow." 
Let us shun, fellow-mariners, let us shun this billow; it vomits forth fire: 
it is a wicked island, heaped with bones and corpses, and in it sings a fair 
courtesan, Pleasure, delighting with music for the common ear. 
"Hie thee hither, far-famed Ulysses, great glory of the Achaeans; Moor the 
ship, that thou mayest hears diviner voice." 
She praises thee, O mariner, and calls the eillustrious; and the courtesan 
tries to win to herself the glory of the Greeks. Leave her to prey on the dead; 
a heavenly spirit comes to thy help: pass by Pleasure, she beguiles. 
"Let not a woman with flowing train cheat you of your senses, With her 
flattering prattle seeking your hurt." 
Sail past the song; it works death. Exert your will only, and you have 
overcome ruin; bound to the wood of the cross, thou shalt be freed from 
destruction: the word of God will be thy pilot, and the Holy Spirit will bring 
thee to anchor in the haven of heaven. Then shalt thou see my God, and be 
initiated into the sacred mysteries, and come to the fruition of those things 
which are laid up in heaven reserved for me, which "ear hath not heard, nor have 
they entered into the heart of any." 
"And in sooth methinks I see two suns, And a double Thebes," said one 
frenzy-stricken in the worship of idols, intoxicated with mere ignorance. I 
would pity him in his frantic intoxication, and thus frantic I would invite him 
to the sobriety of salvation; for the Lord welcomes a sinner's repentance, and 
not his death. 
Come, O madman, not leaning on the thyrsus, not crowned with ivy; throw away 
the mitre, throw away the fawn-skin; come to thy senses. I will show thee the 
Word, and the mysteries of the Word, expounding them after thine own fashion. 
This is the mountain beloved of God, not the subject of tragedies like 
Cithaeron, but consecrated to dramas of the truth,--a mount of sobriety, shaded 
with forests of purity; and there revel on it not the Maenades, the sisters of 
Semele, who was struck by the thunderbolt, practising in their initiator rites 
unholy division of flesh, but the daughters of God, the fair lambs, who 
celebrate the holy rites of the Word, raising a sober choral dance. The 
righteous are the chorus; the music is a hymn of the King of the universe. The 
maidens strike the lyre, the angels praise, the prophets speak; the sound of 
music issues forth, they run and pursue the jubilant band; those that are called 
make haste, eagerly desiring to receive the Father. 
Come thou also, O aged man, leaving Thebes, and casting away from thee both 
divination and Bacchic frenzy, allow thyself to be led to the truth. I give thee 
the staff [of the cross] on which to lean. Haste, Tiresias; believe, and thou 
wilt see. Christ, by whom the eyes of the blind recover sight, will shed on thee 
a light brighter than the sun; night will flee from thee, fire will fear, death 
will be gone; thou, old man, who saw not Thebes, shalt see the heavens. O truly 
sacred mysteries! O stainless light! My way is lighted with torches, and I 
survey the heavens and God; I become holy whilst I am initiated. The Lord is the 
hierophant, and seals while illuminating him who is initiated, and presents to 
the Father him who believes, to be kept safe for ever. Such are the reveries of 
my mysteries. If it is thy wish, be thou also initiated; and thou shall join the 
choir along with angels around the unbegotten and indestructible and the only 
true God, the Word of God, raising the hymn with us. This Jesus, who is eternal, 
the one great High Priest of the one God, and of His Father, prays for and 
exhorts men. 
"Hear, ye myriad tribes, rather whoever among men are endowed with reason, 
both barbarians and Greeks. I call on the whole race of men, whose Creator I am, 
by the will of the Father. Come to Me, that you may be put in your due rank 
under the one God and the one Word of God; and do not only have the advantage of 
the irrational creatures in the possession of reason; for to you of all mortals 
I grant the enjoyment of immortality. For I want, I want to impart to you this 
grace, bestowing on you the perfect boon of immortality; and I confer on you 
both the Word and the knowledge of God, My complete self. This am I, this God 
wills, this is symphony, this the harmony of the Father, this is the Son, this 
is Christ, this the Word of God, the arm of the Lord, the power of the universe, 
the will of the Father; of which things there were images of old, but not all 
adequate. I desire to restore you according to the original model, that ye may 
become also like Me. I anoint you with the ungent of faith, by which you throw 
off corrup tion, and show you the naked form of righteousness by which you 
ascend to God. Come to Me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will 
give you rest. Take My yoke upon you, and learn of Me; for I am meek and lowly 
in heart: and ye shall find rest to your souls. For My yoke is easy, and My 
burden light." 
Let us haste, let us run, my fellowmen--us, who are God-loving and God-like 
images of the Word. Let us haste, let us run, let us take His yoke, let us 
receive, to conduct us to immortality, the good charioteer of men. Let us love 
Christ. He led the colt with its parent; and having yoked the team of humanity 
to God, directs His chariot to immortality, hastening clearly to fulfil, by 
driving now into heaven, what He shadowed forth before by riding into Jerusalem. 
A spectacle most beautiful to the Father is the eternal Son crowned with 
victory. Let us aspire, then, after what is good; let us become God-loving men, 
and obtain the greatest of all things which are incapable of being harmed--God 
and life. Our helper is the Word; let us put confidence in Him; and never let us 
be visited with such a craving for silver and gold, and glory, as for the Word 
of truth Himself. For it will not, it will not be pleasing to God Himself if we 
value least those things which are worth most, and hold in the highest 
estimation the manifest enormities and the utter impiety of folly, and 
ignorance, and thoughtlessness, and idolatry. For not improperly the sons of the 
philosophers consider that the foolish are guilty of profanity and impiety in 
whatever they do; and describing ignorance itself as a species of madness, 
allege that the multitude are nothing but madmen. There is therefore no room to 
doubt, the Word will say, whether it is better to be sane or insane; but holding 
on to truth with our teeth, we must with all our might follow God, and in the 
exercise of wisdom regard all things to be, as they are, His; and besides, 
having learned that we are the most excellent of His possessions, let us commit 
ourselves to God, loving the Lord God, and regarding this as our business all 
our life long. And if what belongs to friends be reckoned common property, and 
man be the friend of God-for through the mediation of the Word has he been made 
the friend of God--then accordingly all things become man's, because all things 
are God's, and the common property of both the friends, God and man. 
It is time, then, for us to say that the pious Christian alone is rich and 
wise, and of noble birth, and thus call and believe him to be God's image, and 
also His likeness, having become righteous and holy and wise by Jesus Christ, 
and so far already like God. Accordingly this grace is indicated by the prophet, 
when he says, "I said that ye are gods, and all sons of the Highest." For us, 
yea us, He has adopted, and wishes to be called the Father of us alone, not of 
the unbelieving. Such is then our position who are the attendants of Christ. 
"As are men's wishes, so are their words; As are their words, so are their 
deeds; And as their works, such is their life." 
Good is the whole life of those who have known Christ. 
Enough, methinks, of words, though, impelled by love to man, I might have 
gone on to pour out what I had from God, that I might exhort to what is the 
greatest of blessings--salvation. For discourses concerning the life which has 
no end, are not readily brought to the end of their disclosures. To you still 
remains this conclusion, to choose which will profit you most--judgment or 
grace. For I do not think there is even room for doubt which of these is the 
better; nor is it allowable to compare life with destruction. 


