
Clement of Alexandria












St. Clement of Alexandria 
Who is the Rich Man That Shall Be Saved?
I. Those who bestow laudatory addresses on the rich appear to me to be 
rightly judged not only flatterers and base, in vehemently pretending that 
things which are disagreeable give them pleasure, but also godless and 
treacherous; godless, because neglecting to praise and glorify God, who is alone 
perfect and good, "of whom are all things, and by whom are all things, and for 
whom are all things," they invest with divine honours men wallowing in an 
execrable and abominable life, and, what is the principal thing, liable on this 
account to the judgment of God; and treacherous, because, although wealth is of 
itself sufficient to puff up and corrupt the souls of its possessors, and to 
turn them from the path by which salvation is to be attained, they stupefy them 
still more, by inflating the minds of the rich with the pleasures of extravagant 
praises, and by making them utterly despise all things except wealth, on account 
of which they are admired; bringing, as the saying is, fire to fire, pouring 
pride on pride, and adding conceit to wealth, a heavier burden to that which by 
nature is a weight, from which somewhat ought rather to be removed and taken 
away as being a dangerous and deadly disease. For to him who exalts and 
magnifies himself, the change and downfall to a low condition succeeds in turn, 
as the divine word teaches. For it appears to me to be far kinder, than basely 
to flatter the rich and praise them for what is bad, to aid them in working out 
their salvation in every possible way; asking this of God, who surely and 
sweetly bestows such things on His own children; and thus by the grace of the 
Saviour healing their souls, enlightening them and leading them to the 
attainment of the truth; and whosoever obtains this and distinguishes himself in 
good works shall gain the prize of everlasting life. Now prayer that runs its 
course till the last day of life needs a strong and tranquil soul; and the 
conduct of life needs a good and righteous disposition, reaching out towards all 
the commandments of the Saviour. 
II. Perhaps the reason of salvation appearing more difficult to the rich than 
to poor men, is not single but manifold. For some, merely hearing, and that in 
an off-hand way, the utterance of the Saviour, "that it is easier for a camel to 
go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of 
heaven," despair of themselves as not destined to live, surrender all to the 
world, cling to the present life as if it alone was left to them, and so diverge 
more from the way to the life to come, no longer inquiring either whom the Lord 
and Master calls rich, or how that which is impossible to man becomes possible 
to God. But others rightly and adequately comprehend this, but attaching slight 
importance to the works which tend to salvation, do not make the requisite 
preparation for attaining to the objects of their hope. And I affirm both of 
these things of the rich who have learned both the Saviour's power and His 
glorious salvation. With those who are ignorant of the truth I have little 
concern. 
III. Those then who are actuated by a love of the truth and love of their 
brethren, and neither are rudely insolent towards such rich as are called, nor, 
on the other hand, cringe to them for their own avaricious ends, must first by 
the word relieve them of their groundless despair, and show with the requisite 
explanation of the oracles of the Lord that the inheritance of the kingdom of 
heaven is not quite cut off from them if they obey the commandments; then 
admonish them that they entertain a causeless fear, and that the Lord gladly 
receives them, provided they are willing; and then, in addition, exhibit and 
teach how and by what deeds and dispositions they shall win the objects of hope, 
inasmuch as it is neither out of their reach, nor, on the other hand, attained 
without effort; but, as is the case with athletes -- to compare things small and 
perishing with things great and immortal -- let the man who is endowed with 
worldly wealth reckon that this depends on himself. For among those, one man, 
because he despaired of being able to conquer and gain crowns, did not give in 
his name for the contest; while another, whose mind was inspired with this hope, 
and yet did not submit to the appropriate labours, and diet, and exercises, 
remained uncrowned, and was balked in his expectations. So also let not the man 
that has been invested with worldly wealth proclaim himself excluded at the 
outset from the Saviour's lists, provided he is a believer and one who 
contemplates the greatness of God's philanthropy; nor let him, on the other 
hand, expect to grasp the crowns of immortality without struggle and effort, 
continuing untrained, and without contest. But let him go and put himself under 
the Word as his trainer, and Christ the President of the contest; and for his 
prescribed food and drink let him have the New Testament of the Lord; and for 
exercises, the commandments; and for elegance and ornament, the fair 
dispositions, love, faith, hope, knowledge of the truth, gentleness, meekness, 
pity, gravity: so that, when by the last trumpet the signal shall be given for 
the race and departure hence, as from the stadium of life, he may with a good 
conscience present himself victorious before the Judge who confers the rewards, 
confessedly worthy of the Fatherland on high, to which he returns with crowns 
and the acclamations of angels. 
IV. May the Saviour then grant to us that, having begun the subject from this 
point, we may contribute to the brethren what is true, and suitable, and saving, 
first touching the hope itself, and, second, touching the access to the hope. He 
indeed grants to those who beg, and teaches those who ask, and dissipate 
signorance and dispels despair, by introducing again the same words about the 
rich, which become their own interpreters and infallible expounders. 
For there is nothing like listening again to the very same statements, which 
till now in the Gospels were distressing you, hearing them as you did without 
examination, and erroneously through puerility: "And going forth into the way, 
one approached and kneeled, saying, Good Master, what good thing shall I do that 
I may inherit everlasting life? And Jesus saith, Why callest thou Me good? There 
is none good but one, that is, God. Thou knowest the commandments. 
Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, 
Defraud not, Honour thy father and thy mother. And he answering saith to Him, 
All these have I observed. And Jesus, looking upon him, loved him, and said, One 
thing thou lackest. If thou wouldest be perfect, sell what thou hast and give to 
the poor, and thou shall have treasure in heaven: and come, follow Me. 
And he was sad at that saying, and went away grieved: for he was rich, having 
great possessions. And Jesus looked round about, and saith to His disciples, How 
hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God! And the 
disciples were astonished at His words. But Jesus answereth again, and saith 
unto them, Children, how hard is it for them that trust in riches to enter into 
the kingdom of God! More easily shall a camel enter through the eye of a needle 
than a rich man into the kingdom of God. And they were astonished out of 
measure, and said, Who then can be saved? bend He, looking upon them, said, What 
is impossible with men is possible with God. For with God all things are 
possible. Peter began to say to Him, Lo, we have left all and followed Thee. 
And Jesus answered and said, Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall leave 
what is his own, parents, and brethren, and possessions, for My sake and the 
Gospel's, shall receive an hundred-fold now in this world, lands, and 
possessions, and house, and brethren, with persecutions; and in the world to 
come is life everlasting. But many that are first shall be last, and the last 
first." 
V. These things are written in the Gospel according to Mark; and in all the 
rest correspondingly; although perchance the expressions vary slightly in each, 
yet all show identical agreement in meaning. But well knowing that the Saviour 
teaches nothing in a merely human way, but teaches all things to His own with 
divine and mystic wisdom, we must not listen to His utterances carnally; but 
with due investigation and intelligence must search out and learn the meaning 
hidden in them. For even those things which seem to have been simplified to the 
disciples by the Lord Himself are found to require not less, even more, 
attention than what is expressed enigmatically, from the surpassing 
superabundance of wisdom in them. And whereas the things which are thought to 
have been explained by Him to those within -- those called by Him the children 
of the kingdom -- require still more consideration than the things which seemed 
to have been expressed simply, and respecting which therefore no questions were 
asked by those who heard them, but which, pertaining to the entire design of 
salvation, and to be contemplated with admirable and supercelestial depth of 
mind, we must not receive superficially with our ears, but with application of 
the mind to the very spirit of the Saviour, and the unuttered meaning of the 
declaration. 
VI. For our Lord and Saviour was asked pleasantly a question most appropriate 
for Him, -- the Life respecting life, the Saviour respecting salvation, the 
Teacher respecting the chief doctrines taught, the Truth respecting the true 
immortality, the Word respecting the word of the Father, the Perfect respecting 
the perfect rest, the Immortal respecting the sure immortality. He was asked 
respecting those things on account of which He descended, which He inculcates, 
which He teaches, which He offers, in order to show the essence of the Gospel, 
that it is the gift of eternal life. For He foresaw as God, both what He would 
be asked, and what each one would answer Him. For who should do this more than 
the Prophet of prophets, and the Lord of' every prophetic spirit? And having 
been called "good," and taking the starting note from this first expression, He 
commences His teaching with this, turning the pupil to God, the good, and first 
and only dispenser of eternal life, which the Son, who received it of Him, gives 
to us. 
VII. Wherefore the greatest and chiefest point of the instructions which 
relate to life must be implanted in the soul from the beginning, -- to know the 
eternal God, the giver of what is eternal, and by knowledge and comprehension to 
possess God, who is first, and highest, and one, and good. For this is the 
immutable and immoveable source and support of life, the knowledge of God, who 
really is, and who bestows the things which really are, that is, those which are 
eternal, from whom both being and the continuance of it are derived to other 
beings. For ignorance of Him is death; but the knowledge and appropriation of 
Him, and love and likeness to Him, are the only life. 
VIII. He then who would live the true life is enjoined first to know Him 
"whom no one knows, except the Son reveal (Him)." Next is to be learned the 
greatness of the Saviour after Him, and the newness of grace; for, according to 
the apostle, "the law was given by Moses, grace and truth came by Jesus Christ;" 
and the gifts granted through a faithful servant are not equal to those bestowed 
by the true Son. If then the law of Moses had been sufficient to confer eternal 
life, it were to no purpose for the Saviour Himself to come and suffer for us, 
accomplishing the course of human life from His birth to His cross; and to no 
purpose for him who had done all the commandments of the law from his youth to 
fall on his knees and beg from another immortality. For he had not only 
fulfilled the law, but had begun to do so from his very earliest youth. For what 
is there great or pre-eminently illustrious in an old age which is unproductive 
of faults? But if one in juvenile frolicsomeness and the fire of youth shows a 
mature judgment older than his years, this is a champion admirable and 
distinguished, and hoary pre-eminently in mind. 
But, nevertheless, this man being such, is perfectly persuaded that nothing 
is wanting to him as far as respects righteousness, but that he is entirely 
destitute of life. Wherefore he asks it from Him who alone is able to give it. 
And with reference to the law, he carries confidence; but the Son of God he 
addresses in supplication. He is transferred from faith to faith. As perilously 
tossing and occupying a dangerous anchorage in the law, he makes for the Saviour 
to find a haven. 
IX. Jesus, accordingly, does not charge him with not having fulfilled all 
things out of the law, but loves him, and fondly welcomes his obedience in what 
he had learned; but says that he is not perfect as respects eternal life, 
inasmuch as he had not fulfilled what is perfect, and that he is a doer indeed 
of the law, but idle at the true life. Those things, indeed, are good. Who 
denies it? For "the commandment is holy," as far as a sort of training with fear 
and preparatory discipline goes, leading as it did to the culmination of 
legislation and to grace. But Christ is the fulfilment "of the law for 
righteousness to every one that believeth;" and not as a slave making slaves, 
but sons, and brethren, and fellow-heirs, who perform the Father's will. 
X. "If thou wilt be perfect." Consequently he was not yet perfect. For 
nothing is more perfect than what is pefect. And divinely the expression "if 
thou wilt" showed the self-determination of the soul holding converse with Him. 
For choice depended on the man as being free; but the gift on God as the Lord. 
And He gives to those who are willing and are exceedingly earnest, and ask, that 
so their salvation may become their own. For God compels not (for compulsion is 
repugnant to God), but supplies to those who seek, and bestows on those who ask, 
and opens to those who knock. If thou wilt, then, if thou really wiliest, and 
art not deceiving thyself, acquire what thou lackest. One thing is lacking thee, 
-- the one thing which abides, the good, that which is now above the law, which 
the law gives not, which the law contains not, which is the prerogative of those 
who live. He forsooth who had fulfilled all the demands of the law from his 
youth, and had gloried in what was magnificent, was not able to complete the 
whole with this one thing which was specially required! by the Saviour, so as to 
receive the eternal life which he desired. But he departed displeased, vexed at 
the commandment of the life, on account of which he supplicated. For he did not 
truly wish life, as he averred, but aimed at the mere reputation of the good 
choice. And he was capable of busying himself about many things; but the one 
thing, the work of life, he was powerless, and disinclined, and unable to 
accomplish. Such also was what the Lord said to Martha, who was occupied with 
many things, and distracted and troubled with serving; while she blamed her 
sister, because, leaving serving, she set herself at His feet, devoting her time 
to learning: "Thou art troubled about many things, but Mary hath chosen the good 
part, which shall not be taken away from her." So also He bade him leave his 
busy life, and cleave to One and adhere to the grace of Him who offered 
everlasting life. 
XI. What then was it which persuaded him to flight, and made him depart from 
the Master, from the entreaty, the hope, the life, previously pursued with 
ardour? -- "Sell thy possessions." And what is this? He does not, as some 
conceive off-hand, bid him throw away the substance he possessed, and abandon 
his property; but bids him banish from his soul his notions about wealth, his 
excitement and morbid feeling about it, the anxieties, which are the thorns of 
existence, which choke the seed of life. For it is no great thing or desirable 
to be destitute of wealth, if without a special object, -- not except on account 
of life. For thus those who have nothing at all, but are destitute, and beggars 
for their daily bread, the poor dispersed on the streets, who know not God and 
God's righteousness, simply on account of their extreme want and destitution of 
subsistence, and lack even of the smallest things, were most blessed and most 
dear to God, and sole possessors of everlasting life. 
Nor was the renunciation of wealth and the bestowment of it on the poor or 
needy a new thing; for many did so before the Saviour's advent, -- some because 
of the leisure (thereby obtained) for learning, and on account of a dead wisdom; 
and others for empty fame and vainglory, as the Anaxagorases, the Democriti, and 
the Crateses. 
XII. Why then command as new, as divine, as alone life-giving, what did not 
save those of former days? And what peculiar thing is it that the new creature s 
the Son of God intimates and teaches? It is not the outward act which others 
have done, but something else indicated by it, greater, more godlike, more 
perfect, the stripping off of the passions from the soul itself and from the 
disposition, and the cutting up by the roots and casting out of what is alien to 
the mind. For this is the lesson peculiar to the believer, and the instruction 
worthy of the Saviour. For those who formerly despised external things 
relinquished and squandered their property, but the passions of the soul, I 
believe, they intensified. For they indulged in arrogance, pretension, and 
vainglory, and in contempt of the rest of mankind, as if they had done something 
superhuman. How then would the Saviour have enjoined on those destined to tire 
for ever what was injurious and hurtful with reference to the life which He 
promised? For although such is the case, one, after ridding himself of the 
burden of wealth, may none the less have still the lust and desire for money 
innate and living; and may have abandoned the use of it, but being at once 
destitute of and desiring what he spent, may doubly grieve both on account of 
the absence of attendance, and the presence of regret. For it is impossible and 
inconceivable that those in want of the necessaries of life should not be 
harassed in mind, and hindered from better things in the endeavour to provide 
them somehow, and from some source. 
XIII. And how much more beneficial the opposite case, for a man, through 
possessing a competency, both not himself to be in straits about money, and also 
to give assistance to those to whom it is requisite so to do! For if no one had 
anything, what room would be left among men for giving? And how can this dogma 
fail to be found plainly opposed to and conflicting with many other excellent 
teachings of the Lord? "Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of 
unrighteousness, that when ye fail, they may receive you into the everlasting 
habitations." "Acquire treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust 
destroys, nor thieves break through." How could one give food to the hungry, and 
drink to the thirsty, clothe the naked, and shelter the houseless, for not doing 
which He threatens with fire and the outer darkness, if each man first divested 
himself of all these things? Nay, He bids Zaccheus and Matthew, the rich 
tax-gathers, entertain Him hospitably. And He does not bid them part with their 
property, but, applying the just and removing the unjust judgment, He subjoins, 
"To-day salvation has come to this house, forasmuch as he also is a son of 
Abraham." He so praises the use of property as to enjoin, along with this 
addition, the giving a share of it, to give drink to the thirsty, bread to the 
hungry, to take the houseless in, and clothe the naked. But if it is not 
possible to supply those needs without substance, and He bids people abandon 
their substance, what else would the Lord be doing than exhorting to give and 
not to give the same things, to feed and not to feed, to take in and to shut 
out, to share and not to share? which were the most irrational of all things. 
XIV. Riches, then, which benefit also our neighbours, are not to be thrown 
away. For they are possessions, inasmuch as they are possessed, and goods, 
inasmuch as they are useful and provided by God for the use of men; and they lie 
to our hand, and are put under our power, as material and instruments which are 
for good use to those who know the instrument. If you use it skilfully, it is 
skilful; if you are deficient in skill, it is affected by your want of skill, 
being itself destitute of blame. Such an instrument is wealth. Are you able to 
make a right use of it? It is subservient to righteousness. Does one make a 
wrong use of it? It is, on the other hand, a minister of wrong. For its nature 
is to be subservient, not to rule. That then which of itself has neither good 
nor evil, being blameless, ought not to be blamed; but that which has the power 
of using it well and ill, by reason of its possessing voluntary choice. And this 
is the mind and judgment of man, which has freedom in itself and 
self-determination in the treatment of what is assigned to it. So let no man 
destroy wealth, rather than the passions of the soul, which are incompatible 
with the better use of wealth. So that, becoming virtuous and good, he may be 
able to make a good use of these riches. The renunciation, then, and selling of 
all possessions, is to be understood as spoken of the passions of the soul. 
XV. I would then say this. Since some things are within and some without the 
soul, and if the soul make a good use of them, they! also are reputed good, but 
if a bad, bad; -- whether does He who commands us to alienate our possessions 
repudiate those things, after the removal of which the passions still remain, or 
those rather, on the removal of which wealth even becomes beneficial? If 
therefore he who casts away worldly wealth can still be rich in the passions, 
even though the material [for their gratification] is absent, -- for the 
disposition produces its own effects, and strangles the reason, and presses it 
down and inflames it with its inbred lusts, -- it is then of no advantage to him 
to be poor in purse while he is rich in passions. For it is not what ought to be 
cast away that he has east away, but what is indifferent; and he has deprived 
himself of what is serviceable, but set on fire the innate fuel of evil through 
want of the external means [of gratification]. We must therefore renounce those 
possessions that are injurious, not those that are capable of being serviceable, 
if one knows the fight use of them. And what is managed with wisdom, and 
sobriety, and piety, is profitable; and what is hurtful must be east away. But 
things external hun not. So then the Lord introduces the use of external things, 
bidding us put away not the means of subsistence, but what uses them badly. And 
these are the infirmities and passions of the soul. 
XVI. The presence of wealth in these is deadly to all, the loss of it 
salutary. Of which, making the soul pure, -- that is, poor and bare, -- we must 
hear the Saviour speaking thus, "Come, follow Me." For to the pure in heart He 
now becomes the way. But into the impure soul the grace of God finds no 
entrance. And that (soul) is unclean which is rich in lusts, and is in the 
throes of many worldly affections. For he who holds possessions, and gold, and 
silver, and houses, as the gifts of God; and ministers from them to the God who 
gives them for the salvation of men; and knows that he possesses them more for 
the sake of the brethren than his own; and is superior to the possession of 
them, not the slave of the things he possesses; and does not carry them about in 
his soul, nor bind and circumscribe his life within them, but is ever labouring 
at some good and divine work, even should he be necessarily some time or other 
deprived of them, is able with cheerful mind to bear their removal equally with 
their abundance. This is he who is blessed by the Lord, and cared poor in 
spirit, a meet heir of the kingdom of heaven, not one who could not live rich. 
XVII. But he who carries his riches in his soul, and instead of God's Spirit 
bears in his heart gold or land, and is always acquiring possessions without 
end, and is perpetually on the outlook for more, bending downwards and fettered 
in the toils of the world, being earth and destined to depart to earth, -- 
whence can he be able to desire and to mind the kingdom of heaven, -- a man who 
carries not a heart, but land or metal, who must perforce be found in the midst 
of the objects he has chosen? For where the mind of man is, there is also his 
treasure. The Lord acknowledges a twofold treasure, -- the good: "For the good 
man, out of the good treasure of his heart, bringeth forth good;" and the evil: 
for "the evil man, out of the evil treasure, bringeth forth evil: for out of the 
abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh." As then treasure is not one with 
Him, as also it is with us, that which gives the unexpected great gain in the 
finding, but also a second, which is profitless and undesirable, an evil 
acquisition, hurtful; so also there is a richness in good things, and a richness 
in bad things, since we know that riches and treasure are not by nature 
separated from each other. And the one sort of riches is to be possessed and 
acquired, and the other not to be possessed, but to be cast away. 
In the same way spiritual poverty is blessed. Wherefore also Matthew added, 
"Blessed are the poor." How? "In spirit." And again, "Blessed are they that 
hunger and thirst after the righteousness of God." Wherefore wretched are the 
contrary kind of poor, who have no part in God, and still less in human 
property, and have not tasted of the righteousness of God. 
XVIII. So that (the expression) rich men that shall with difficulty enter 
into the kingdom, is to be apprehended in a scholarly way, not awkwardly, or 
rustically, or carnally. For if the expression is used thus, salvation does not 
depend on external things, whether they be many or few, small or great, or 
illustrious or obscure, or esteemed or disesteemed; but on the virtue of the 
soul, on faith, and hope, and love, and brotherliness, and knowledge, and 
meekness, and humility, and truth, the reward of which is salvation. For it is 
not on account of comeliness of body that any one shall live, or, on the other 
hand, perish. But he who uses the body given to him chastely and according to 
God, shall live; and he that destroys the temple of God shall be destroyed. An 
ugly man can be profligate, and a good-looking man temperate. Neither strength 
and great size of body makes alive, nor does any of the members destroy. But the 
soul which uses them provides the cause for each. Bear then, it is said, when 
struck on the face; which a man strong and in good health can obey. And again, a 
man who is feeble may transgress from refractoriness of temper. So also a poor 
and destitute man may be found intoxicated with lusts; and a man rich in worldly 
goods temperate, poor in indulgences, trustworthy, intelligent, pure, chastened. 

If then it is the soul which, first and especially, is that which is to live, 
and if virtue springing up around it saves, and vice kills; then it is clearly 
manifest that by being poor in those things, by riches of which one destroys it, 
it is saved, and by being rich in those things, riches of which ruin it, it is 
killed. And let us no longer seek the cause of the issue elsewhere than in the 
state and disposition of the soul in respect of obedience to God and purity, and 
in respect of transgression of the commandments and accumulation of wickedness. 
XIX. He then is truly and rightly rich who is rich in virtue, and is capable 
of making a holy and faithful use of any fortune; while he is spuriously rich 
who is rich, according to the flesh, and turns life into outward possession, 
which is transitory and perishing, and now belongs to one, now to another, and 
in the end to nobody at all. Again, in the same way there is a genuine poor man, 
and another counterfeit and falsely so called. He that is poor in spirit, and 
that is the right thing, and he that is poor in a worldly sense, which is a 
different thing. To him who is poor in worldly goods, but rich in vices, who is 
not poor in spirit and rich toward God, it is said, Abandon the alien 
possessions that are in thy soul, that, becoming pure in heart, thou mayest see 
God; which is another way of saying, Enter into the kingdom of heaven. And how 
may you abandon them? By selling them. What then? Are you to take money for 
effects, by effecting an exchange of riches, by turning your visible substance 
into money? Not at all. But by introducing, instead of what was formerly 
inherent in your soul, which you desire to save, other riches which deify and 
which minister everlasting life, dispositions in accordance with the command of 
God; for which there shall accrue to you endless reward and honour, and 
salvation, and everlasting immortality. It is thus that thou dost rightly sell 
the possessions, many are superfluous, which shut the heavens against thee by 
exchanging them for those which are able to save. Let the former be possessed by 
the carnal poor, who are destitute of the latter. But thou, by receiving instead 
spiritual wealth, shalt have now treasure in the heavens. 
XX. The wealthy and legally correct man, not understanding these things 
figuratively, nor how the same man can be both poor and rich, and have wealth 
and not have it, and use the world and not use it, went away sad and downcast, 
leaving the state of life, which he was able merely to desire but not to attain, 
making for himself the difficult impossible. For it was difficult for the soul 
not to be seduced and ruined by the luxuries and flowery enchantments that beset 
remarkable wealth; but it was not impossible, even surrounded with it, for one 
to lay hold of salvation, provided he withdrew himself from material wealth, -- 
to that which is grasped by the mind and taught by God, and learned to use 
things indifferent rightly and properly, and so as to strive after eternal life. 
And the disciples even themselves were at first alarmed and amazed. Why were 
they so on hearing this? Was it that they themselves possessed much wealth? Nay, 
they had long ago left their very nets, and hooks, and rowing boats, which were 
their sole possessions. Why then do they say in consternation, "Who can be 
saved?" They had heard well and like disciples what was spoken in parable and 
obscurely by the Lord, and perceived the depth of the words. For they were 
sanguine of salvation on the ground of their want of wealth. But when they 
became conscious of not having yet wholly renounced the passions (for they were 
neophytes and recently selected by the Saviour), they were excessively 
astonished, and despaired of themselves no less than that rich man who clung so 
terribly to the wealth which he preferred to eternal life. It was therefore a 
fit subject for all fear on the disciples' part; if both he that possesses 
wealth and he that is teeming with passions were the rich, and these alike shall 
be expelled from the heavens. For salvation is the privilege of pure and 
passionless souls. 
XXI. But the Lord replies, "Because what is impossible with men is possible 
with God." This again is full of great wisdom. For a man by himself working and 
toiling at freedom from passion achieves nothing. But if he plainly shows 
himself very desirous and earnest about this, he attains it by the addition of 
the power of God. For God conspires with willing souls. But if they abandon 
their eagerness, the spirit which is bestowed by God is also restrained. For to 
save the unwilling is the part of one exercising compulsion; but to save the 
willing, that of one showing grace. Nor does the kingdom of heaven belong to 
sleepers and sluggards, "but the violent take it by force." For this alone is 
commendable violence, to force God, and take life from God by force. And He, 
knowing those who persevere firmly, or rather violently, yields and grants. For 
God delights in being vanquished in such things. 
Therefore on hearing those words, the blessed Peter, the chosen, the 
pre-eminent, the first of the disciples, for whom alone and Himself the Saviour 
paid tribute, quickly seized and comprehended the saying. And what does he say? 
"Lo, we have left all and followed Thee? Now if by all he means his own 
property, he boasts of leaving four oboli perhaps in all, and forgets to show 
the kingdom of heaven to be their recompense. But if, casting away what we were 
now speaking of, the old mental possessions and soul diseases, they follow in 
the Master's footsteps, this now joins them to those who are to be enrolled in 
the heavens. For it is thus that one truly follows the Saviour, by aiming at 
sinlessness and at His perfection, and adorning and composing the soul before it 
as a mirror, and arranging everything in all respects similarly. 
XXII. "And Jesus answering said, Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall leave 
what is his own, parents, and children, and wealth, for My sake and the 
Gospel's, shall receive an hundredfold." But let neither this trouble you, nor 
the still harder saying delivered in another place in the words, "Whoso hateth 
not father, and mother, and children, and his own life besides, cannot be My 
disciple." For the God of peace, who also exhorts to love enemies, does not 
introduce hatred and dissolution from those that are dearest. But if we are to 
love our enemies, it is in accordance with right reason that, ascending from 
them, we should love also those nearest in kindred. Or if we are to hate our 
blood-relations, deduction teaches us that much more are we to spurn from us our 
enemies. So that the reasonings would be shown to destroy one another. But they 
do not destroy each other, nor are they near doing so. For from the same feeling 
and disposition, and on the ground of the same rule, one loving his enemy may 
hate his father, inasmuch as he neither takes vengeance on an enemy, nor 
reverences a father more than Christ. For by the one word he extirpates hatred 
and injury, and by the other shamefacedness towards one's relations, if it is 
detrimental to salvation. If then one's father, or son, or brother, be godless, 
and become a hindrance to faith and an impediment to the higher life, let him 
not be friends or agree with him, but on account of the spiritual enmity, let 
him dissolve the fleshly relationship. 
XXIII. Suppose the matter to be a law-suit. Let your father be imagined to 
present himself to you and say, "I begot and reared thee. Follow me, and join 
with me in wickedness, and obey not the law of Christ;" and whatever a man who 
is a blasphemer and dead by nature would say. But on the other side hear the 
Saviour: "I regenerated thee, who wert ill born by the world to death. I 
emancipated, healed, ransomed thee. I will show thee the face of the good Father 
God. Call no man thy father on earth. Let the dead bury the dead; but follow 
thou Me. For I will bring thee to a rest of ineffable and unutterable blessings, 
which eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the heart of men; 
into which angels desire to look, and see what good things God hath prepared for 
the saints and the children who love Him." I am He who feeds thee, giving Myself 
as bread, of which he who has tasted experiences death no more, and supplying 
day by day the drink of immortality. I am teacher of supercelestial lessons. For 
thee I contended with Death, and paid thy death, which thou owedst for thy 
former sins and thy unbelief towards God." 
Having heard these considerations on both sides, decide for thyself and give 
thy vote for thine own salvation. Should a brother say the like, should a child, 
should a wife, should any one whosoever, in preference to all let Christ in thee 
be conqueror. For He contends in thy behalf. 
XXIV. You may even go against wealth. Say, "Certainly Christ does not debar 
me from property. The Lord does not envy." But do you see yourself overcome and 
overthrown by it? Leave it, throw it away, hate, renounce, flee. "Even if thy 
right eye offend thee," quickly "cut it out." Better is the kingdom of God to a 
man with one eye, than the fire to one who is unmutilated. Whether hand, or 
foot, or soul, hate it. For if it is destroyed here for Christ's sake, it will 
be restored to life yonder. 
XXV. And to this effect similarly is what follows. "Now at this present time 
not to have lands, and money, and houses, and brethren, with persecutions." For 
it is neither penniless, nor homeless, nor brotherless people that the Lord 
calls to life, since He has also called rich people; but, as we have said above, 
also brothers, as Peter with Andrew, and James with John the sons of Zebedee, 
but of one mind with each other and Christ. And the expression "with 
persecutions" rejects the possessing of each of those things. There is a 
persecution which arises from without, from men assailing the faithful, either 
out of hatred, or envy, or avarice, or through diabolic agency. But the most 
painful is internal persecution, which proceeds from each man's own soul being 
vexed by impious lusts, and diverse pleasures, and base hopes, and destructive 
dreams; when, always grasping at more, and maddened by brutish loves, and 
inflamed by the passions which beset it like goads and stings, it is covered 
with blood, (to drive it on) to insane pursuits, and to despair of life, and to 
contempt of God. 
More grievous and painful is this persecution, which arises from within, 
which is ever with a man, and which the persecuted cannot escape; for he carries 
the enemy about everywhere in himself. Thus also burning which attacks from 
without works trial, but that from within produces death. War also made on one 
is easily put an end to, but that which is in the soul continues till death. 
With such persecution, if you have worldly wealth, if you have brothers 
allied by blood and other pledges, abandon the whole wealth of these which leads 
to evil; procure peace for yourself, free yourself from protracted persecutions; 
turn from them to the Gospel; choose before all the Saviour and Advocate and 
Paraclete of your soul, the Prince of life. "For the things which are seen are 
temporary; but the things which are not seen are eternal." And in the present 
time are things evanescent and insecure, but in that to come is eternal life. 
XXVI. "The first shall be last, and the last first." This is fruitful in 
meaning and exposition, but does not demand investigation at present; for it 
refers not only to the wealthy alone, but plainly to all men, who have once 
surrendered themselves to faith. So let this stand aside for the present. But I 
think that our proposition has been demonstrated in no way inferior to what we 
promised, that the Saviour by no means has excluded the rich on account of 
wealth itself, and the possession of property, nor fenced off salvation against 
them; if they are able and willing to submit their life to God's commandments, 
and prefer them to transitory objects, and if they would look to the Lord with 
steady eye, as those who look for the nod of a good helmsman, what he wishes, 
what he orders, what he indicates, what signal he gives his mariners, where and 
whence he directs the ship's course. For what harm does one do, who, previous to 
faith, by applying his mind and by saving has collected a competency? Or what is 
much less reprehensible than this, if at once by God, who gave him his life, he 
has had his home given him in the house of such men, among wealthy people, 
powerful in substance, and pre-eminent in opulence? For if, in consequence of 
his involuntary birth in wealth, a man is banished from life, rather is he 
wronged by God, who created him, in having vouchsafed to him temporary 
enjoyment, and in being deprived of eternal life. And why should wealth have 
ever sprung from the earth at all, if it is the author and patron of death? 
But if one is able in the midst of wealth to turn from its power, and to 
entertain moderate sentiments, and to exercise self-command, and to seek God 
alone, and to breathe God and walk with God, such a poor man submits to the 
commandments, being free, unsubdued, free of disease, unwounded by wealth. But 
if not, "sooner shall a camel enter through a needle's eye, than such a rich man 
reach the kingdom of God." 
Let then the camel, going through a narrow and strait way before the rich 
man, signify something loftier; which mystery of the Saviour is to be learned in 
the "Exposition of first Principles and of Theology." 
XXVII. Well, first let the point of the parable, which is evident, and the 
reason why it is spoken, be presented. Let it teach the prosperous that they are 
not to neglect their own salvation, as if they had been already fore-doomed, 
nor, on the other hand, to cast wealth into the sea, or condemn it as a traitor 
and an enemy to life, but learn in what way and how to use wealth and obtain 
life. For since neither does one perish by any means by fearing because he is 
rich, nor is by any means saved by trusting and believing that he shall be 
saved, come let them look what hope the Saviour assigns them, and how what is 
unexpected may become ratified, and what is hoped for may come into possession. 
The Master accordingly, when asked, "Which is the greatest of the 
commandments?" says, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy soul, and 
with all thy strength;" that no commandment is greater than this (He says), and 
with exceeding good reason; for it gives command respecting the First and the 
Greatest, God Himself, our Father, by whom all things were brought into being, 
and exist, and to whom what is saved returns again. By Him, then, being loved 
beforehand, and having received existence, it is impious for us to regard ought 
else older or more excellent; rendering only this small tribute of gratitude for 
the greatest benefits; and being unable to imagine anything else whatever by way 
of recompense to God, who needs nothing and is perfect; and gaining immortality 
by the very exercise of loving the Father to the extent of one's might and 
power. For the more one loves God, the more he enters within God. 
XXVIII. The second in order, and not any less than this, He says, is, "Thou 
shalt love thy neighbour as thyself," consequently God above thyself. And on His 
interlocutor inquiring, "Who is my neighbour?" He did not, in the same way with 
the Jews, specify the blood-relation, or the fellow-citizen, or the proselyte, 
or him that had been similarly circumcised, or the man who uses one and the same 
law. But He introduces one on his way down from the upland region from Jerusalem 
to Jericho, and represents him stabbed by robbers, cast half-dead on the way, 
passed by the priest, looked sideways at by the Levite, but pitied by the 
vili-fied and excommunicated Samaritan; who did not, like those, pass casually, 
but came provided with such things as the man in danger required, such as oil, 
bandages, a beast of burden, money for the inn-keeper, part given now, and part 
promised. "Which," said He, "of them was neighbour to him that suffered these 
things?" and on his answering, "He that showed mercy to him," (replied), Go thou 
also, therefore, and do likewise, since love buds into well-doing. 
XXIX. In both the commandments, then, He introduces love; but in order 
distinguishes it. And in the one He assigns to God the first part of love, and 
allots the second to our neighbour. Who else can it be but the Saviour Himself? 
or who more than He has pitied us, who by the rulers of darkness were all but 
put to death with many wounds, fears, lusts, passions, pains, deceits, 
pleasures?. Of these wounds the only physician is Jesus, who cuts out the 
passions thoroughly by the root, -- not as the law does the bare effects, the 
fruits of evil plants, but applies His axe to the roots of wickedness. He it is 
that poured wine on our wounded souls (the blood of David's vine), that brought 
the oil which flows from the compassions of the Father? and bestowed it 
copiously. He it is that produced the ligatures of health and of salvation that 
cannot be undone, -- Love, Faith, Hope. He it is that subjected angels, and 
principalities, and powers, for a great reward to serve us. For they also shall 
be delivered from the vanity of the world through the revelation of the glory of 
the sons of God. We are therefore to love Him equally with God. And he loves 
Christ Jesus who does His will and keeps His commandments. "For not every one 
that saith unto Me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he 
that doeth the will of My Father." And "Why call ye Me Lord, Lord, and do not 
the things which I say?" "And blessed are ye who see and hear what neither 
righteous men nor prophets" (have seen or heard), if ye do what I say. 
XXX. He then is first who loves Christ; and second, he who loves and cares 
for those who have believed on Him. For whatever is done to a disciple, the Lord 
accepts as done to Himself, and reckons the whole as His. "Come, ye blessed of 
My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the 
world. For I was an hungered, and ye gave Me to eat: I was thirsty, and ye gave 
Me to drink: and I was a stranger, and ye took Me in: I was naked and ye clothed 
Me: I was sick, and ye visited Me: I was in prison, and ye came to Me. Then 
shall the righteous answer, saying, Lord, when saw we Thee hungry, and fed Thee? 
or thirsty, and gave Thee drink? And when saw we Thee a stranger, and took Thee 
in? or naked, and clothed Thee? Or when saw we Thee sick, and visited Thee? or 
in prison, and came to Thee? And the King answering, shall say to them, Verily I 
say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these My 
brethren, ye have done it unto Me." 
Again, on the opposite side, to those who have not performed these things, 
"Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have not done it unto one of the least of 
these, ye have not done it to Me." And in another place, "He that receiveth you; 
receiveth Me; and he that receiveth not you, rejecteth Me." 
XXXI. Such He names children, and sons, and little children, and friends, and 
little ones here, in reference to their future greatness above. "Despise not," 
He says, "one of these little ones; for their angels always behold the face of 
My Father in heaven." And in another place, "Fear not, little flock, for it is 
your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom of heaven." Similarly also 
He says that "the least in the kingdom of heaven" that is His own disciple "is 
greater than John, the greatest among those bern of women." And again, "He that 
receiveth a righteous man or a prophet in the name of a righteous man or a 
prophet, shall receive their reward; and he that giveth to a disciple in the 
name of a disciple a cup of cold water to drink, shall not lose his reward." 
Wherefore this is the only reward that is not lost. And again, "Make to you 
friends of the mammon of unrighteousness, that, when ye fail, they may receive 
you into everlasting habitations;" showing that by nature all property which a 
man possesses in his own power is not his own. And from this unrighteousness it 
is permitted to work a righteous and saving thing, to refresh some one of those 
who have an everlasting habitation with the Father. 
See then, first, that He has not commanded you to be solicited or to wait to 
be importuned, but yourself to seek those who are to be bene-fired and are 
worthy disciples of the Saviour. Excellent, accordingly, also is the apostle's 
saying, "For the Lord loveth a cheerful giver;" who delights in giving, and 
spares not, sowing so that he may also thus reap, without murmuring, and 
disputing, and regret, and communicating, which is pure beneficence. But better 
than this is the saying spoken by the Lord in another place, "Give to every one 
that asketh thee." For truly such is God's delight in giving. And this saying is 
above all divinity, -- not to wait to be asked, but to inquire oneself who 
deserves to receive kindness. 
XXXII. Then to appoint such a reward for liberality, -- an everlasting 
habitation! O excel lent trading! O divine merchandise! One purchases 
immortality for money; and, by giving the perishing things of the world, 
receives in exchange for these an eternal mansion in the heavens! Sail to this 
mart, if you are wise, O rich man! If need be, sail round the whole world. Spare 
not perils and toils, that you may purchase here the heavenly kingdom. Why do 
transparent stones and emeralds delight thee so much, and a house that is fuel 
for fire, or a plaything of time, or the sport of the earthquake, or an occasion 
for a tyrant's outrage? Aspire to dwell in the heavens, and to reign with God. 
This kingdom a man imitating God will give thee. By receiving a little here, 
there through all ages He will make thee a dweller with Him. Ask that you may 
receive; haste; strive; fear lest He disgrace thee. For He is not commanded to 
receive, but thou to give. The Lord did not say, Give, or bring, or do good, or 
help, but make a friend. But a friend proves himself such not by one gift, but 
by long intimacy. For it is neither the faith, nor the love, nor the hope, nor 
the endurance of one day, but "he that endureth to the end shall be saved." 
XXXIII. How then does man give these things? For I will give not only to 
friends, but to the friends of friends. And who is it that is the friend of God? 
Do not you judge who is worthy or who is unworthy. For it is possible you may be 
mistaken in your opinion. As in the uncertainty of ignorance it is better to do 
good to the undeserving for the sake of the deserving, than by guarding against 
those that are less good to fail to meet in with the good. For though sparing, 
and aiming at testing, who will receive meritoriously or not, it is possible for 
you to neglect some that are loved by God; the penalty for which is the 
punishment of eternal fire. But by offering to all in turn that need, you must 
of necessity by all means find some one of those who have power with God to 
save. "Judge not, then, that ye be not judged. With what measure ye mete, it 
shall be measured to you again; good measure, pressed and shaken, and running 
over, shall be given to you." Open thy compassion to all who are enrolled the 
disciples of God; not looking contemptuously to personal appearance, nor 
carelessly disposed to any period of life. Nor if one appears penniless, or 
ragged, or ugly, or feeble, do thou fret in soul at this and turn away. This 
form is cast around us from without, the occasion of our entrance into this 
world, that we may be able to enter into this common school. But within dwells 
the hidden Father, and His Son, who died for us and rose with us. 
XXXIV. This visible appearance cheats death and the devil; for the wealth 
within, the beauty, is unseen by them. And they rave about the carcase, which 
they despise as weak, being blind to the wealth within; knowing not what a 
"treasure in an earthen vessel" we bear, protected as it is by the power of God 
the Father, and the blood' of God the Son, and the dew of the Holy Spirit. But 
be not deceived, thou who hast tasted of the truth, and been reckoned worthy of 
the great redemption. But contrary to what is the case with the rest of men, 
collect for thyself an unarmed, an unwarlike, a bloodless, a passionless, a 
stainless host, pious old men, orphans dear to God, widows armed with meekness, 
men, adorned with love. Obtain with thy money such guards, for body and for 
soul, for whose sake a sinking ship is made buoyant, when steered by the prayers 
of the saints alone; and disease at its height is subdued, put to flight by the 
laying on of hands; and the attack of robbers is disarmed, spoiled by pious 
prayers; and the might of demons is crushed, put to shame in its operations by 
strenuous commands. 
XXXV. All these warriors and guards are trusty. No one is idle, no one is 
useless. One can obtain your pardon from God, another comfort you when sick, 
another weep and groan in sympathy for you to the Lord of all, another teach 
some of the things useful for salvation, another admonish with confidence, 
another counsel with kindness. And all can love truly, without guile, without 
fear, without hypocrisy, without flattery, without pretence. O sweet service of 
loving [souls]! O blessed thoughts of confident [hearts]! O sincere faith of 
those who fear God alone! O truth of words with those who cannot lie! O beauty 
of deeds with those who have been commissioned to serve God, to persuade God, to 
please God, not to touch thy flesh! to speak, but to the King of eternity 
dwelling in thee. 
XXXVI. All the faithful, then, are good and godlike, and worthy of the name 
by which they are encircled as with a diadem. There are, besides, some, the 
elect of the elect, and so much more or less distinguished by drawing 
themselves, like ships to the strand, out of the surge of the world and bringing 
themselves to safety; not wishing to seem holy, and ashamed if one call them so; 
hiding in the depth of their mind the ineffable mysteries, and disdaining to let 
their nobleness be seen in the world; whom the Word calls "the light of the 
world, and the salt of the earth." This is the seed, the image and likeness of 
God, and His true son and heir, sent here as it were on a sojourn, by the high 
administration and suitable arrangement of the Father, by whom the visible and 
invisible things of the world were created; some for their service, some for 
their discipline, some for their instruction; and all things are held together 
so long as the seed remains here; and when it is gathered, these things shall be 
very quickly dissolved. 
XXXVII. For what further need has God of the mysteries of love? And then thou 
shalt look into the bosom of the Father, whom God the only-begotten Son alone 
hath declared. And God Himself is love; and out of love to us became feminine. 
In His ineffable essence He is Father; in His compassion to us He became Mother. 
The Father by loving became feminine: and the great proof of this is He whom He 
begot of Himself; and the fruit brought forth by love is love. 
For this also He came down. For this He clothed Himself with man. For this He 
voluntarily subjected Himself to the experiences of men, that by bringing 
Himself to the measure of our weakness whom He loved, He might correspondingly 
bring us to the measure of His own strength. And about to be offered up and 
giving Himself a ransom, He left for us a new Covenant-testament: My love I give 
unto you. And what and how great is it? For each of us He gave His life, -- the 
equivalent for all. This He demands from us in return for one another. And if we 
owe our lives to the brethren, and have made such a mutual compact with the 
Saviour, why should we any more hoard and shut up worldly goods, which are 
beggarly, foreign to us and transitory? Shall we shut up from each other what 
after a little shall be the property of the fire? Divinely and weightily John 
says," He that loveth not his brother is a murderer," the seed of Cain, a 
nursling of the devil. He has not God's compassion. He has no hope of better 
things. He is sterile; he is barren; he is not a branch of the ever-living 
supercelestial vine. He is cut off; he waits the perpetual fire. 
XXXVIII. But learn thou the more excellent way, which Paul shows for 
salvation. "Love seeketh not her own," but is diffused on the brother. About him 
she is fluttered, about him she is soberly insane. "Love covers a multitude of 
sins." "Perfect love casteth out fear." "Vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up; 
rejoiceth not in iniquity, but-rejoiceth in the truth; beareth all things, 
believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Love never 
faileth. Prophecies are done away, tongues cease, gifts of healing fail on the 
earth. But these three abide, Faith, Hope, Love. But the greatest of these is 
Love." And rightly. For Faith departs when we are convinced by vision, by seeing 
God. And Hope vanishes when the things hoped for come. But Love comes to 
completion, and grows more when that which is perfect has been bestowed. If one 
introduces it into his soul, although he be born in sins, and has done many 
forbidden things, he is able, by increasing love, and adopting a pure 
repentance, to retrieve his mistakes. For let not this be left to despondency 
and despair by you, if you learn who the rich man is that has not a place in 
heaven, and what way he uses his property. 
XXXIX. If one should escape the superfluity of riches, and the difficulty 
they interpose in the way of life, and be able to enjoy the eternal good things; 
but should happen, either from ignorance or involuntary circumstances, after the 
seal s and redemption, to fall into sins or transgressions so as to be quite 
carried away; such a man is entirely rejected by God. For to every one who has 
turned to God in truth, and with his whole heart, the doors are open, and the 
thrice-glad Father receives His truly repentant son. And true repentance is to 
be no longer bound in the same sins for which He denounced death against 
Himself, but to eradicate them completely from the soul. For on their 
extirpation God takes up His abode again in thee. For it is said there is great 
and exceeding joy and festival in the heavens with the Father and the angels 
when one sinner turns and repents. Wherefore also He cries, "I will have mercy, 
and not sacrifice." "I desire not the death, but the repentance of the sinner." 
"Though your sins be as scarlet wool, I will make them white as snow; though 
they be blacker than darkness, I will wash and make them like white wool." For 
it is in the power of God alone to grant the forgiveness of sins, and not to 
impute transgressions; since also the Lord commands us each day to forgive the 
repenting brethren. "And if we, being evil, know to give good gifts," much more 
is it the nature of the Father of mercies, the good Father of all consolation, 
much pitying, very merciful, to be long-suffering, to wait for those who have 
turned. And to turn is really to cease from our sins, and to look no longer 
behind. 
XL. Forgiveness of past sins, then, God gives; but of future, each one gives 
to himself. And this is to repent, to condemn the past deeds, and beg oblivion 
of them from the Father, who only of all is able to undo what is done, by mercy 
proceeding from Him, and to blot out former sins by the dew of the Spirit. "For 
by the state in which I find you will I judge," also, is what in each case the 
end of all cries aloud. So that even in the case of one who has done the 
greatest good deeds in his life, but at the end has run headlong into 
wickedness, all his former pains are profitless to him, since at the catastrophe 
of the drama he has given up his part; while it is possible for the man who 
formerly led a bad and dissolute life, on afterwards repenting, to overcome in 
the time after repentance the evil conduct of a long time. But it needs great 
carefulness, just as bodies that have suffered by protracted disease need 
regimen and special attention. Thief, dost thou wish to get forgiveness? steal 
no more. Adulterer, burn no more. Fornicator, live for the future chastely. Thou 
who hast robbed, give back, and give back more than [thou tookest]. False 
witness, practise truth. Perjurer, swear no more, and extirpate the rest of the 
passions, wrath, lust, grief, fear; that thou mayest be found at the end to have 
previously in this world been reconciled to the adversary. It is then probably 
impossible all at once to eradicate inbred passions; but by God's power and 
human intercession, and the help of brethren, and sincere repentance, and 
constant care, they are corrected. 
XLI. Wherefore it is by all means necessary for thee, who art pompous, and 
powerful, and rich, to set over thyself some man of God as a trainer and 
governor. Reverence, though it be but one man; fear, though it be but one man. 
Give yourself to hearing, though it be but one speaking freely, using 
harshness, and at the same time healing. For it is good for the eyes not to 
continue always wanton, but to weep and smart sometimes, for greater health. 
So also nothing is more pernicious to the soul than uninterrupted pleasure. 
For it is blinded by melting away, if it remain unmoved by bold speech. Fear 
this man when angry; be pained at his groaning; and reverence him when making 
his anger to cease; and anticipate him when he is deprecating punishment. Let 
him pass many sleepless nights for thee, interceding for thee with God, 
influencing the Father with the magic of familiar litanies. For He does not hold 
out against His children when they beg His pity. And for you he will pray 
purely, held in high honour as an angel of God, and grieved not by you, but for 
you. This is sincere repentance. "God is not mocked," nor does He give heed to 
vain words. For He alone searches the marrow and reins of the heart, and hears 
those that are in the fire, and listens to those who supplicate in the whale's 
belly; and is near to all who believe, and far from the ungodly if they repent 
not. 
XLII. And that you may be still more confident, that repenting thus truly 
there remains for you a sure hope of salvation, listen to a tale? which is not a 
tale but a narrative, handed down and committed to the custody of memory, about 
the Apostle John. For when, on the tyrant's death, he returned to Ephesus from 
the isle of Patmos, he went away, being invited, to the contiguous territories 
of the nations, here to appoint bishops, there to set in order whole Churches, 
there to ordain such as were marked out by the Spirit. 
Having come to one of the cities not far off (the name of which some give), 
and having put the brethren to rest in other matters, at last, looking to the 
bishop appointed, and seeing a youth, powerful in body, comely in appearance, 
and ardent, said, "This (youth) I commit to you in all earnestness, in the 
presence of the Church, and with Christ as witness." And on his accepting and 
promising all, he gave the same injunction and testimony. And he set out for 
Ephesus. And the presbyter taking home the youth committed to him, reared, kept, 
cherished, and finally baptized him. After this he relaxed his stricter care and 
guardianship, under the idea that the seal of the Lord he had set on him was a 
complete protection to him. But on his obtaining premature freedom, some youths 
of his age, idle, dissolute, and adepts in evil courses, corrupt him. First they 
entice him by many costly entertainments; then afterwards by night issuing forth 
for highway robbery, they take him along with them. Then they dared to execute 
together something greater. And he by degrees got accustomed; and from greatness 
of nature, when he had gone aside from the right path, and like a hard-mouthed 
and powerful horse, had taken the bit between his teeth, rushed with all the 
more force down into the depths. And having entirely despaired of salvation in 
God, he no longer meditated what was insignificant, but having perpetrated some 
great exploit, now that he was once lost, he made up his mind to a like fate 
with the rest. Taking them and forming a hand of robbers, he was the prompt 
captain of the bandits, the fiercest, the bloodiest, the cruelest. 
Time passed, and some necessity having emerged, they send again for John. He, 
when he had settled the other matters on account of which he came, said, "Come 
now, O bishop, restore to us the deposit which I and the Saviour committed to 
thee in the face of the Church over which you preside, as witness." The other 
was at first confounded, thinking that it was a false charge about money which 
he did not get; and he could neither believe the allegation regarding what he 
had not, nor disbelieve John. But when he said "I demand the young man, and the 
soul of the brother," the old man, groaning deeply, and bursting into tears, 
said, "He is dead." "How and what kind of death?" "He is dead," he said, "to 
God. For he turned wicked and abandoned, and at last a robber; and now he has 
taken possession of the mountain in front of the church, along with a band like 
him." Rending, therefore, his clothes, and striking his head with great 
lamentation, the apostle said, "It was a fine guard of a brother's soul I left! 
But let a horse be brought me, and let some one be my guide on the way." He rode 
away, just as he was, straight from the church. On coming to the place, he is 
arrested by the robbers' outpost; neither fleeing nor entreating, but crying, 
"It was for this I came. Lead me to your captain;" who meanwhile was waiting, 
all armed as he was. But when he recognized John as he advanced, he turned, 
ashamed, to flight. The other followed with all his might, forgetting his age, 
crying, "Why, my son, dost thou flee from me, thy father, unarmed, old? Son, 
pity me. Fear not; thou hast still hope of life. I will give account to Christ 
for thee. If need be, I will willingly endure thy death, as the Lord did death 
for us. For thee I will surrender my life. Stand, believe; Christ hath sent me." 

And he, when he heard, first stood, looking down; then threw down his arms, 
then trembled and wept bitterly. And on the old man approaching, he embraced 
him, speaking for himself with lamentations as he could, and baptized a second 
time with tears, concealing only his right hand. The other pledging, and 
assuring him on oath that he would find forgiveness for himself from the 
Saviour, beseeching and failing on his knees, and kissing his right hand itself, 
as now purified by repentance, led him back to the church. Then by supplicating 
with copious prayers, and striving along with him in continual fastings, and 
subduing his mind by various utterances of words, did not depart, as they say, 
till he restored him to the Church, presenting in him a great example of true 
repentance and a great token of regeneration, a trophy of the resurrection for 
which we hope; when at the end of the world, the angels, radiant with joy, 
hymning and opening the heavens, shall receive into the celestial abodes those 
who truly repent; and before all, the Saviour Himself goes to meet them, 
welcoming them; holding forth the shadowless, ceaseless light; conducting 
them,to the Father's bosom, to eternal life, to the kingdom of heaven. 
Let one believe these things, and the disciples of God, and God, who is 
surety, the Prophecies, the Gospels, the Apostolic words; living in accordance 
with them, and lending his ears, and practising the deeds, he shall at his 
decease see the end and demonstration of the truths taught. For he who in this 
world welcomes the angel of penitence will not repent at the time that he leaves 
the body, nor be ashamed when he sees the Saviour approaching in His glory and 
with His army. He fears not the fire. 
But if one chooses to continue and to sin perpetually in pleasures, and 
values indulgence here above eternal life, and turns away from the Saviour, who 
gives forgiveness; let him no more blame either God, or riches, or his having 
fallen, but his own soul, which voluntarily perishes. But to him who directs his 
eye to salvation and desires it, and asks with boldness and vehemence for its 
bestowal, the good Father who is in heaven will give the true purification and 
the changeless life. To whom, by His Son Jesus Christ, the Lord of the living 
and dead, and by the Holy Spirit, be glory, honour, power, eternal majesty, both 
now and ever, from generation to generation, and from eternity to eternity. 
Amen. 


