
Clement of Alexandria












The Stromata, or Miscellanies
Book I
CHAPTER I -- PREFACE. THE AUTHOR'S OBJECT. THE UTILITY OF WRITTEN 
COMPOSITIONS. 
[Missing the beginning] . . . .. that you may read them under your 
hand, and may be able to preserve them. Whether written compositions are not to 
be left behind at all; or if they are, by whom? And if the former, what need 
there is for written compositions? and if the latter, is the composition of them 
to be assigned to earnest men, or the opposite? It were certainly ridiculous for 
one to disapprove of the writing of earnest men, and approve of those, who are 
not such, engaging in the work of composition. Theopompus and Timaeus, who 
composed fables and slanders, and Epicurus the leader of atheism, and Hipponax 
and Archilochus, are to be allowed to write in their own shameful manner. But he 
who proclaims the truth is to be prevented from leaving behind him what is to 
benefit posterity. It is a good thing, I reckon, to leave to posterity good 
children. This is the case with children of our bodies. But words are the 
progeny of the soul. Hence we call those who have instructed us, fathers. Wisdom 
is a communicative and philanthropic thing. Accordingly, Solomon says, "My son, 
if thou receive the saying of my commandment, and hide it with thee, thine ear 
shall hear wisdom." He points out that the word that is sown is hidden in the 
soul of the learner, as in the earth, and this is spiritual planting. Wherefore 
also he adds, "And thou shall apply thine heart to understanding, and apply it 
for the admonition of thy son." For soul, me thinks, joined with soul, and 
spirit with spirit, in the sowing of the word, will make that which is sown grow 
and germinate. And every one who is instructed, is in respect of subjection the 
son of his instructor. "Son," says he, "forget not my laws." 
And if knowledge belong not to all (set an ass to the lyre, as the proverb 
goes), yet written compositions are for the many. "Swine, for instance, delight 
in dirt more than in clean water." "Wherefore," says the Lord, "I speak to them 
in parables: because seeing, they see not; and hearing, they hear not, and do 
not understand; " not as if the Lord caused the ignorance: for it were impious 
to think so. But He prophetically exposed this ignorance, that existed in them, 
and intimated that they would not understand the things spoken. And now the 
Saviour shows Himself, out of His abundance, dispensing goods to His servants 
according to the ability of the recipient, that they may augment them by 
exercising activity, and then returning to reckon with them; when, approving of 
those that had increased His money, those faithful in little, and commanding 
them to have the charge over many things, He bade them enter into the joy of the 
Lord. But to him who had hid the money, entrusted to him to be given out at 
interest, and had given it back as he had received it, without increase, He 
said, "Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou oughtest to have given my money to 
the bankers, and at my coming I should have received mine own." Wherefore the 
useless servant "shall be cast into outer darkness." "Thou, therefore, be 
strong," says Paul, "in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things which 
thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful 
men, who shall be able to teach others also." And again: "Study to show thyself 
approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing 
the word of truth." 
If, then, both proclaim the Word -- the one by writing, the other by speech 
-- are not both then to be approved, making, as they do, faith active by love? 
It is by one's own fault that he does not choose what is best; God is free of 
blame. As to the point in hand, it is the business of some to lay out the word 
at interest, and of others to test it, and either choose it or not. And the 
judgment is determined within themselves. 
But there is that species of knowledge which is characteristic of the herald, 
and that which is, as it were, characteristic of a messenger, and it is 
serviceable in whatever way it operates, both by the hand and tongue. "For he 
that soweth to the Spirit, shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting. And let us 
not be weary in well-doing." On him who by Divine Providence meets in with it, 
it confers the very highest advantages, -- the beginning of faith, readiness for 
adopting a right mode of life, the impulse towards the truth, a movement of 
inquiry, a trace of knowledge; in a word, it gives the means of salvation. And 
those who have been rightly reared in the words of truth, and received provision 
for eternal life, wing their way to heaven. Most admirably, therefore, the 
apostle says, "In everything approving ourselves as the servants of God; as 
poor, and yet making many rich; as having nothing, yet possessing all things. 
Our mouth is opened to you." "I charge thee," he says, writing to Timothy, 
"before God, and Christ Jesus, and the elect angels, that thou observe these 
things, without preferring one before another, doing nothing by partiality." 
Both must therefore test themselves: the one, if he is qualified to speak and 
leave behind him written records; the other, if he is in a right state to hear 
and read: as also some in the dispensation of the Eucharist, according to custom 
enjoin that each one of the people individually should take his part. One's own 
conscience is best for choosing accurately or shunning. And its firm foundation 
is a right life, with suitable instruction. But the imitation of those who have 
already been proved, and who have led correct lives, is most excellent for the 
understanding and practice of the commandments. "So that whosoever shall eat the 
bread and drink the cup of the Lord unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and 
blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the 
bread and drink of the cup." It therefore follows, that every one of those who 
undertake to promote the good of their neighbours, ought to consider whether he 
has betaken himself to teaching rashly and out of rivalry to any; if his 
communication of the word is out of vainglory; if the t only reward he reaps is 
the salvation of those who hear, and if he speaks not in order to win favour: if 
so, he who speaks by writings escapes the reproach of mercenary motives. "For 
neither at any time used we flattering words, as ye know," says the apostle, 
"nor a cloak of covetousness. God is witness. Nor of men sought we glory, 
neither of you, nor yet of others, when we might have been burdensome as the 
apostles of Christ. But we were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherisheth her 
children." 
In the same way, therefore, those who take part in the divine words, ought to 
guard against betaking themselves to this, as they would to the building of 
cities, to examine them out of curiosity; that they do not come to the task for 
the sake of receiving worldly things, having ascertained that they who are 
consecrated to Christ are given to communicate the necessaries of life. But let 
such be dismissed as hypocrites. But if any one wishes not to seem, but to be 
righteous, to him it belongs to know the things which are best. If, then, "the 
harvest is plenteous, but the labourers few," it is incumbent on us "to pray" 
that there may be as great abundance of labourers as possible. 
But the husbandry is twofold, -- the one unwritten, and the other written. 
And in whatever way the Lord's labourer sow the good wheat, and grow and reap 
the ears, he shall appear a truly divine husbandman. "Labour," says the Lord, 
"not for the meat which perisheth, but for that which endureth to everlasting 
life." And nutriment is received both by bread and by words. And truly "blessed 
are the peace-makers," who instructing those who are at war in their life and 
errors here, lead them back to the peace which is in the Word, and nourish for 
the life which is according to God, by the distribution of the bread, those 
"that hunger after righteousness." For each soul has its own proper nutriment; 
some growing by knowledge and science, and others feeding on the Hellenic 
philosophy, the whole of which, like nuts, is not eatable. "And he that planteth 
and he that watereth," "being ministers" of Him "that gives the increase, are 
one" in the ministry. "But every one shall receive his own reward, according to 
his own work. For we are God's husbandmen, God's husbandry. Ye are God's 
building," according to the apostle. Wherefore the hearers are not permitted to 
apply the test of comparison. Nor is the word, given for investigation, to be 
committed to those who have been reared in the arts of all kinds of words, and 
in the power of inflated attempts at proof; whose minds are already 
pre-occupied, and have not been previously emptied. But whoever chooses to 
banquet on faith, is stedfast for the reception of the divine words, having 
acquired already faith as a power of judging, according to reason. Hence ensues 
to him persuasion in abundance. And this was the meaning of that saying of 
prophecy, "If ye believe not, neither shall ye understand." "As, then, we have 
opportunity, let us do good to all, especially to the household of faith." And 
let each of these, according to the blessed David, sing, giving thanks. "Thou 
shalt sprinkle me with hyssop, and I shall be cleansed. Thou shalt wash me, and 
I shall be whiter than the snow. Thou shalt make me to hear gladness and joy, 
and the bones which have been humbled shall rejoice. Turn Thy face from my sins. 
Blot out mine iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right 
spirit in my inward parts. Cast me not away from Thy face, and take not Thy Holy 
Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of Thy salvation, and establish me with 
Thy princely spirit." 
He who addresses those who are present before him, both tests them by time, 
and judges by his judgment, and from the others distinguishes him who can hear; 
watching the words, the manners, the habits, the life, the motions, the 
attitudes, the look, the voice; the road, the rock, the beaten path, the 
fruitful land, the wooded region, the fertile and fair and cultivated spot, that 
is able to multiply the seed. But he that speaks through books, consecrates 
himself before God, crying in writing thus: Not for gain, not for vainglory, not 
to be vanquished by partiality, nor enslaved by fear nor elated by pleasure; but 
only to reap the salvation of those who read, which he does, not at present 
participate in, but awaiting in expectation the recompense which will certainly 
be rendered by Him, who has promised to bestow on the labourers the reward that 
is meet. But he who is enrolled in the number of men ought not to desire 
recompense. For he that vaunts his good services, receives glory as his reward. 
And he who does any duty for the sake of recompense, is he not held fast in the 
custom of the world, either as one who has done well, hastening to receive a 
reward, or as an evil-doer avoiding retribution? We must, as far as we can, 
imitate the Lord.I And he will do so, who complies with the will of God, 
receiving freely, giving freely, and receiving as a worthy reward the 
citizenship itself. "The hire of an harlot shall not come into the sanctuary," 
it is said: accordingly it was forbidden to bring to the altar the price of a 
dog. 
And in whomsoever the eye of the soul has been blinded by ill-nurture and 
teaching, let him advance to the true light, to the truth, which shows by 
writing the things that are unwritten. "Ye that thirst, go to the waters," says 
Esaias, And "drink water from thine own vessels," Solomon exhorts. Accordingly 
in "The Laws," the philosopher who learned from the Hebrews, Plato, commands 
husbandmen not to irrigate or take water from others, until they have first dug 
down in their own ground to what is called the virgin soil, and found it dry. 
For it is right to supply want, but it is not well to support laziness. For 
Pythagoras said that, "although it be agreeable to reason to take a share of a 
burden, it is not a duty to take it away." 
Now the Scripture kindles the living spark of the soul, and directs the eye 
suitably for contemplation; perchance inserting something, as the husbandman 
when he ingrafts, but, according to the opinion of the divine apostle, exciting 
what is in the soul. "For there are certainly among us many weak and sickly, and 
many sleep. But if we judge ourselves, we shall not be judged." Now this work of 
mine in writing is not artfully constructed for display; but my memoranda are 
stored up against old age, as a remedy against forgetfulness, truly an image and 
outline of those vigorous and animated discourses which I was privileged to 
hear, and of blessed and truly remarkable men. 
Of these the one, in Greece, an Ionic; the other in Magna Graecia: the first 
of these from Coele-Syria, the second from Egypt, and others in the East. The 
one was born in the land of Assyria, and the other a Hebrew in Palestine. 
When I came upon the last (he was the first in power), having tracked him out 
concealed in Egypt, I found rest. He, the true, the Sicilian bee, gathering the 
spoil of the flowers of the prophetic and apostolic meadow, engendered in the 
souls of his hearers a deathless element of knowledge. 
Well, they preserving the tradition of the blessed doctrine derived directly 
from the holy apostles, Peter, James, John, and Paul, the sons receiving it from 
the father (but few were like the fathers), came by God's will to us also to 
deposit those ancestral and apostolic seeds. And well I know that they will 
exult; I do not mean delighted with this tribute, but solely on account of the 
preservation of the truth, according as they delivered it. For such a sketch as 
this, will, I think, be agreeable to a soul desirous of preserving from escape 
the blessed tradition. 
"In a man who loves wisdom the father will be glad." Wells, when pumped out, 
yield purer water; and that of which no one partakes, turns to putrefaction. Use 
keeps steel brighter, but disuse produces rust in it. For, in a word, exercise 
produces a healthy condition both in souls and bodies. "No one lighteth a 
candle, and putteth it under a bushel, but upon a candlestick, that it may give 
light to those who are regarded worthy of the feast." For what is the use of 
wisdom, if it makes not him who can hear it wise? For still the Saviour saves, 
"and always works, as He sees the Father." For by teaching, one learns more; and 
in speaking, one is often a hearer along with his audience. For the teacher of 
him who speaks and of him who hears is one -- who waters both the mind and the 
word. Thus the Lord did not hinder from doing good while keeping the Sabbath; 
but allowed us to communicate of those divine mysteries, and of that holy light, 
to those who are able to receive them. He did not certainly disclose to the many 
what did not belong to the many; but to the few to whom He knew that they 
belonged, who were capable of receiving and being moulded according to them. But 
secret things are entrusted to speech, not to writing, as is the case with God. 
And if one say that it is written, "There is nothing secret which shall not 
be revealed, nor hidden which shall not be disclosed," let him also hear from 
us, that to him who hears secretly, even what is secret shall be manifested. 
This is what was predicted by this oracle. And to him who is able secretly to 
observe what is delivered to him. that which is veiled shall be disclosed as 
truth; and what is hidden to the many, shall appear manifest to the few. For why 
do not all know the truth? why is not righteousness loved, if righteousness 
belongs to all? But the mysteries are delivered mystically, that what is spoken 
may be in the mouth of the speaker; rather not in his voice, but in his 
understanding. "God gave to the Church, some apostles, and some prophets, and 
some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers, for the perfecting of the 
saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ." 
The writing of these memoranda of mine, I well know, is weak when compared 
with that spirit, full of grace, which I was privileged to hear. But it will be 
an image to recall the archetype to him who was struck with the thyrsus. For 
"speak," it is said, "to a wise man, and he will grow wiser; and to him that 
hath, and there shall be added to him." And we profess not to explain secret 
things sufficiently -- far from it -- but only to recall them to memory, whether 
we have forgot aught, or whether for the purpose of not forgetting. Many things, 
I well know, have escaped us, through length of time, that have dropped away 
unwritten. Whence, to aid the weakness of my memory, and provide for myself a 
salutary help to my recollection in a systematic arrangement of chapters, I 
necessarily make use of this form. There are then some things of which we have 
no recollection; for the power that was in the blessed men was great. There are 
also some things which remained unnoted long, which have now escaped; and others 
which are effaced, having faded away in the mind itself, since such a task is 
not easy to those not experienced; these I revive in my commentaries. Some 
things I purposely omit, in the exercise of a wise selection, afraid to write 
what I guarded against speaking: not grudging -- for that were wrong -- but 
fearing for my readers, lest they should stumble by taking them in a wrong 
sense; and, as the proverb says, we should be found "reaching a sword to a 
child." For it is impossible that what has been written should not escape, 
although remaining unpublished by me. But being always revolved, using the one 
only voice, that of writing, they answer nothing to him that makes inquiries 
beyond what is written; for they require of necessity the aid of some one, 
either of him who wrote, or of some one else who has walked in his footsteps. 
Some things my treatise will hint; on some it will linger; some it will merely 
mention. It will try to speak imperceptibly, to exhibit secretly, and to 
demonstrate silently. The dogmas taught by remarkable sects will be adduced; and 
to these will be opposed all that ought to be premised in accordance with the 
profoundest contemplation of the knowledge, which, as we proceed to the renowned 
and venerable canon of tradition, from the creation of the world, will advance 
to our view; setting before us what according to natural contemplation 
necessarily has to be treated of beforehand, and clearing off what stands in the 
way of this arrangement. So that we may have our ears ready for the reception of 
the tradition of true knowledge; the soil being previously cleared of the thorns 
and of every weed by the husbandman, in order to the planting of the vine. For 
there is a contest, and the prelude to the contest; and them are some mysteries 
before other mysteries. 
Our book will not shrink from making use of what is best in philosophy and 
other preparatory instruction. "For not only for the Hebrews and those that are 
under the law," according to the apostle, "is it right to become a Jew, but also 
a Greek for the sake of the Greeks, that we may gain all." Also in the Epistle 
to the Colossians he writes, "Admonishing every man, and teaching every man in 
all wisdom, that we may present every man perfect in Christ." The nicety of 
speculation, too, suits the sketch presented in my commentaries. In this respect 
the resources of learning are like a relish mixed with the food of an athlete, 
who is not indulging in luxury, but entertains a noble desire for distinction. 
By music we harmoniously relax the excessive tension of gravity. And as those 
who wish to address the people, do so often by the herald, that what is said may 
be better heard; so also in this case. For we have the word, that was spoken to 
many, before the common tradition. Wherefore we must set forth the opinions and 
utterances which cried individually to them, by which those who hear shall more 
readily turn. 
And, in truth, to speak briefly: Among many small pearls there is the one; 
and in a great take of fish there is the beauty-fish; and by time and toil truth 
will gleam forth, if a good helper is at hand. For most benefits are supplied, 
from God, through men. All of us who make use of our eyes see what is presented 
before them. But some look at objects for one reason, others for another. For 
instance, the cook and the shepherd do not survey the sheep similarly: for the 
one examines it if it be fat; the other watches to see if it be of good breed. 
Let a man milk the sheep's milk if he need sustenance: let him shear the wool if 
he need clothing. And in this way let me produce the fruit of the Greek 
erudition. 
For I do not imagine that any composition can be so fortunate as that no one 
will speak against it. But that is to be regarded as in accordance with reason, 
which nobody speaks against, with reason. And that course of action and choice 
is to be approved, not which is faultless, but which no one rationally finds 
fault with. For it does not follow, that if a man accomplishes anything not 
purposely, he does it through force of circumstances. But he will do it, 
managing it by wisdom divinely given, and in accommodation to circumstances. For 
it is not he who has virtue that needs the way to virtue, any more than he, that 
is strong, needs recovery. For, like farmers who irrigate the land beforehand, 
so we also water with the liquid stream of Greek learning what in it is earthy; 
so that it may receive the spiritual seed cast into it, and may be capable of 
easily nourishing it. The Stromata will contain the truth mixed up in the dogmas 
of philosophy, or rather covered over and hidden, as the edible part of the nut 
in the shell. For, in my opinion, it is fitting that the seeds of truth be kept 
for the husbandmen of faith, and no others. I am not oblivious of what is 
babbled by some, who in their ignorance are frightened at every noise, and say 
that we ought to occupy ourselves with what is most necessary, and which 
contains the faith; and that we should pass over what is beyond and superfluous, 
which wears out and detains us to no purpose, in things which conduce nothing to 
the great end. Others think that philosophy was introduced into life by an evil 
influence, for the ruin of men, by an evil inventor. But I shall show, 
throughout the whole of these Stromata, that evil has an evil nature, and can 
never turn out the producer of aught that is good; indicating that philosophy is 
in a sense a work of Divine Providence. 
CHAPTER II -- OBJECTION TO THE NUMBER OF EXTRACTS FROM PHILOSOPHICAL WRITINGS 
IN THESE BOOKS ANTICIPATED AND ANSWERED. 
In reference to these commentaries, which contain as the exigencies of the 
case demand, the Hellenic opinions, I say thus much to those who are fond of 
finding fault. First, even if philosophy were useless, if the demonstration of 
its uselessness does good, it is yet useful. Then those cannot condemn the 
Greeks, who have only a mere hearsay knowledge of their opinions, and have not 
entered into a minute investigation in each department, in order to acquaintance 
with them. For the refutation, which is based on experience, is entirely 
trustworthy. For the knowledge of what is condemned is found the most complete 
demonstration. Many things, then, though not contributing to the final result, 
equip the artist. And otherwise erudition commends him, who sets forth the most 
essential doctrines so as to produce persuasion in his hearers, engendering 
admiration in those who are taught, and leads them to the truth. And such 
persuasion is convincing, by which those that love learning admit the truth; so 
that philosophy does not ruin life by being the originator of false practices 
and base deeds, although some have calumniated it, though it be the clear image 
of truth, a divine gift to the Greeks; nor does it drag us away from the faith, 
as if we were bewitched by some delusive art, but rather, so to speak, by the 
use of an ampler circuit, obtains a common exercise demonstrative of the faith. 
Further, the juxtaposition of doctrines, by comparison, saves the truth, from 
which follows knowledge. 
Philosophy came into existence, not on its own account, but for the 
advantages reaped by us from knowledge, we receiving a firm persuasion of true 
perception, through the knowledge of things comprehended by the mind. For I do 
not mention that the Stromata, forming a body of varied erudition, wish artfully 
to conceal the seeds of knowledge. As, then, he who is fond of hunting captures 
the game after seeking, tracking, scenting, hunting it down with dogs; so truth, 
when sought and got with toil, appears a delicious thing. Why, then, you will 
ask, did you think it fit that such an arrangement should be adopted in your 
memoranda? Because there is great danger in divulging the secret of the true 
philosophy to those, whose delight it is unsparingly to speak against 
everything, not justly; and who shout forth all kinds of names and words 
indecorously, deceiving themselves and beguiling those who adhere to them. "For 
the Hebrews seek signs," as the apostle says, "and the Greeks seek after 
wisdom." 
CHAPTER III -- AGAINST THE SOPHISTS. 
There is a great crowd of this description: some of them, enslaved to 
pleasures and willing to disbelieve, laugh at the truth which is worthy of all 
reverence, making sport of its barbarousness. Some others, exalting themselves, 
endeavour to discover calumnious objections to our words, furnishing captious 
questions, hunters out of paltry sayings, practisers of miserable artifices, 
wranglers, dealers in knotty points, as that Abderite says: "For mortals' 
tongues are glib, and on them are many speeches; And a wide range for words of 
all sorts in this place and that." And -- "Of whatever sort the word you have 
spoken, of the same sort you must hear." 
Inflated with this art of theirs, the wretched Sophists, babbling away in 
their own jargon; toiling their whole life about the division of names and the 
nature of the composition and conjunction of sentences, show themselves greater 
chatterers than turtle-doves; scratching and tickling, not in a manly way, in my 
opinion, the ears of those who wish to be tickled. 
"A river of silly words -- not a dropping;" just as in old shoes, when all 
the rest is worn and is falling to pieces, and the tongue alone remains. The 
Athenian Solon most excellently enlarges, and writes: "Look to the tongue, and 
to the words of the glozing man, But you look on no work that has been done; But 
each one of you walks in the steps of a fox, And in all of you is an empty 
mind." 
This, I think, is signified by the utterance of the Saviour, "The foxes have 
holes, but the Son of man hath not where to lay His head." For on the believer 
alone, who is separated entirely from the rest, who by the Scripture are called 
wild beasts, rests the head of the universe, the kind and gentle Word, "who 
taketh the wise in their own craftiness. For the Lord knoweth the thoughts of 
the wise, that they axe vain;" the Scripture calling those the wise 
(sofous) who are skilled in words and arts, sophists (sofistas) 
Whence the Greeks also applied the denominative appellation of wise and sophists 
(sofoi sofistai) to those who were versed in anything Cratinus 
accordingly, having in the Archilochii enumerated the poets, said: "Such a hive 
of sophists have ye examined." And similarly Iophon, the comic poet, in 
Flute-playing Satyrs, says: "For there entered A band of sophists, all 
equipped." 
Of these and the like, who devote their attention to empty words, the divine 
Scripture most excellently says, "I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and 
bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent." 
CHAPTER IV -- HUMAN ARTS AS WELL AS DIVINE KNOWLEDGE PROCEED FROM GOD. 
Homer calls an artificer wise; and of Margites, if that is his work, he thus 
writes: "Him, then, the Gods made neither a delver nor a ploughman, Nor in any 
other respect wise; but he missed every art." 
Hesiod further said the musician Linus was "skilled in all manner of wisdom;" 
and does not hesitate to call a mariner wise, seeing he writes: "Having no 
wisdom in navigation." 
And Daniel the prophet says, "The mystery which the king asks, it is not in 
the power of the wise, the Magi, the diviners, the Gazarenes, to tell the king; 
but it is God in heaven who revealeth it." 
Here he terms the Babylonians wise. And that Scripture calls every secular 
science or art by the one name wisdom (there are other arts and sciences 
invented over and above by human reason), and that artistic and skilful 
invention is from God, will be clear if we adduce the follow ing statement: "And 
the Lord spake to Moses, See, I have called Bezaleel, the son of Uri, the son of 
Or, of the tribe of Judah; and I have filled him with the divine spirit of 
wisdom, and understanding, and knowledge, to devise and to execute in all manner 
of work, to work gold, and silver, and brass, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, 
and in working stone work, and in the art of working wood," and even to "all 
works." And then He adds the general reason, "And to every understanding heart I 
have given understanding;" that is, to every one capable of acquiring it by 
pains and exercise. And again, it is written expressly in the name of the Lord 
"And speak thou to all that are wise in mind, whom I have filled with the spirit 
of perception." 
Those who are wise in mind have a certain attribute of nature peculiar to 
themselves; and they who have shown themselves capable, receive from the Supreme 
Wisdom a spirit of perception in double measure. For those who practise the 
common arts, are in what pertains to the senses highly gifted: in hearing, he 
who is commonly called a musician; in touch, he who moulds clay; in voice the 
singer, in smell the perfumer, in sight the engraver of devices on seals. Those 
also that are occupied in instruction, train the sensibility according to which 
the poets are susceptible to the influence of measure; the sophists apprehend 
expression; the dialecticians, syllogisms; and the philosophers are capable of 
the contemplation of which themselves are the objects. For sensibility finds and 
invents; since it persuasively exhorts to application. And practice will 
increase the application which has knowledge for its end. With reason, 
therefore, the apostle has called the wisdom of God" manifold," and which has 
manifested its power "in many departments and in many modes" -- by art, by 
knowledge, by faith, by prophecy -- for our benefit. "For all wisdom is from the 
Lord, and is with Him for ever," as says the wisdom of Jesus. 
For if thou call on wisdom and knowledge with a loud voice, and seek it as 
treasures of silver, and eagerly track it out, thou shalt understand godliness 
and find divine knowledge." The prophet says this in contradiction to the 
knowledge according to philosophy, which teaches us to investigate in a 
magnanimous and noble manner, for our progress in piety. He opposes, therefore, 
to it the knowledge which is occupied with piety, when referring to knowledge, 
when he speaks as follows: "For God gives wisdom out of His own mouth, and 
knowledge along with understanding, and treasures up help for the righteous." 
For to those who have been justified by philosophy, the knowledge which leads to 
piety is laid up as a help. 
CHAPTER V -- PHILOSOPHY THE HANDMAID OF THEOLOGY. 
Accordingly, before the advent of the Lord, philosophy was necessary to the 
Greeks for righteousness. And now it becomes conducive to piety; being a kind of 
preparatory training to those who attain to faith through demonstration. "For 
thy foot," it is said, "will not stumble, if thou refer what is good, whether 
belonging to the Greeks or to us, to Providence." For God is the cause of all 
good things; but of some primarily, as of the Old and the New Testament; and of 
others by consequence, as philosophy. Perchance, too, philosophy was given to 
the Greeks directly and primarily, till the Lord should call the Greeks. For 
this was a schoolmaster to bring "the Hellenic mind," as the law, the Hebrews, 
"to Christ." Philosophy, therefore, was a preparation, paving the way for him 
who is perfected in Christ. 
"Now," says Solomon, "defend wisdom, and it will exalt thee, and it will 
shield thee with a crown of pleasure." For when thou hast strengthened wisdom 
with a cope by philosophy, and with right expenditure, thou wilt preserve it 
unassailable by sophists. The way of truth is therefore one. But into it, as 
into a perennial river, streams flow from all sides. It has been therefore said 
by inspiration: "Hear, my son, and receive my words; that thine may be the many 
ways of life. For I teach thee the ways of wisdom; that the fountains fail thee 
not," which gush forth from the earth itself. Not only did He enumerate several 
ways of salvation for any one righteous man, but He added many other ways of 
many righteous, speaking thus: "The paths of the righteous shine like the 
light." The commandments and the modes of preparatory training are to be 
regarded as the ways and appliances of life. 
"Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how often would I have gathered thy children, as a hen 
her chickens!" And Jerusalem is, when interpreted, "a vision of peace." He 
therefore shows prophetically, that those who peacefully contemplate sacred 
things are in manifold ways trained to their calling. What then? He "would," and 
could not. How often, and where? Twice; by the prophets, and by the advent. The 
expression, then, "How often," shows wisdom to be manifold; every mode of 
quantity and quality, it by all means saves some, both in time and in eternity. 
"For the Spirit of the Lord fills the earth." And if any should violently say 
that the reference is to the Hellenic culture, when it is said, "Give not heed 
to an evil woman; for honey drops from the lips of a harlot," let him hear what 
follows: "who lubricates thy throat for the time." But philosophy does not 
flatter. Who, then, does He allude to as having committed fornication? He adds 
expressly, "For the feet of folly lead those who use her, after death, to Hades. 
But her steps are not supported." Therefore remove thy way far from silly 
pleasure. "Stand not at the doors of her house, that thou yield not thy life to 
others." And He testifies, "Then shall thou repent in old age, when the flesh of 
thy body is consumed." For this is the end of foolish pleasure. Such, indeed, is 
the case. And when He says, "Be not much with a strange woman," He admonishes us 
to use indeed, but not to linger and spend time with, secular culture. For what 
was bestowed on each generation advantageously, and at seasonable times, is a 
preliminary training for the word of the Lord. "For already some men, ensnared 
by the charms of handmaidens, have despised their consort philosophy, and have 
grown old, some of them in music, some in geometry, others in grammar, the most 
in rhetoric." "But as the encyclical branches of study contribute to philosophy, 
which is their mistress; so also philosophy itself co-operates for the 
acquisition of wisdom. For philosophy is the study of wisdom, and wisdom is the 
knowledge of things divine and human; and their causes." Wisdom is therefore 
queen of philosophy, as philosophy is of preparatory culture. For if philosophy" 
professes control of the tongue, and the belly, and the parts below the belly, 
it is to be chosen on its own account. But it appears more worthy of respect and 
pre-eminence, if cultivated for the honour and knowledge of God." And Scripture 
will afford a testimony to what has been said in what follows. Sarah was at one 
time barren, being Abraham's wife. Sarah having no child, assigned her maid, by 
name Hagar, the Egyptian, to Abraham, in order to get children. Wisdom, 
therefore, who dwells with the man of faith (and Abraham was reckoned faithful 
and righteous), was still barren and without child in that generation, not 
having brought forth to Abraham aught allied to virtue. And she, as was proper, 
thought that he, being now in the time of progress, should have intercourse with 
secular culture first (by Egyptian the world is designated figuratively); and 
afterwards should approach to her according to divine providence, and beget 
Isaac." 
And Philo interprets Hagar to mean "sojourning." For it is said in connection 
with this, "Be not much with a strange woman." Sarah he interprets to mean "my 
princedom." He, then, who has received previous training is at liberty to 
approach to wisdom, which is supreme, from which grows up the race of Israel. 
These things show that that wisdom can be acquired through instruction, to which 
Abraham attained, passing from the contemplation of heavenly things to the faith 
and righteousness which are according to God. And Isaac is shown to mean 
"self-taught;" wherefore also he is discovered to be a type of Christ. He was 
the husband of one wife Rebecca, which they translate "Patience." And Jacob is 
said to have consorted with several, his name being interpreted" Exerciser." And 
exercises are engaged in by means of many and various dogmas. Whence, also, he 
who is really "endowed with the power of seeing" is called Israel, having much 
experience, and being fit for exercise. 
Something else may also have been shown by the three patriarchs, namely, that 
the sure seal of knowledge is composed of nature, of education, and exercise. 
You may have also another image of what has been said, in Thamar sitting by 
the way, and presenting the appearance of a harlot, on whom the studious Judas 
(whose name is interpreted "powerful"), who left nothing unexamined and 
uninvestigated, looked; and turned aside to her, preserving his profession 
towards God. Wherefore also, when Sarah was jealous at Hagar being preferred to 
her, Abraham, as choosing only what was profitable in secular philosophy, said, 
"Behold, thy maid is in thine hands: deal with her as it pleases thee;" 
manifestly meaning, "I embrace secular culture as youthful, and a handmaid; but 
thy knowledge I honour and reverence as true wife." And Sarah afflicted her; 
which is equivalent to corrected and admonished her. It has therefore been well 
said, "My son, despise not thou the correction of God; nor faint when thou art 
rebuked of Him. For whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth, and scourgeth every son 
whom He receiveth." And the foresaid Scriptures, when examined in other places, 
will be seen to exhibit other mysteries. We merely therefore assert here, that 
philosophy is characterized by investigation into truth and the nature of things 
(this is the truth of which the Lord Himself said, "I am the truth"; that, 
again, the preparatory training for rest in Christ exercises the mind, rouses 
the intelligence, and begets an inquiring shrewdness, by means of the true 
philosophy, which the initiated possess, having found it, or rather received it, 
from the truth itself. 
CHAPTER VI -- THE BENEFIT OF CULTURE. 
The readiness acquired by previous training conduces much to the perception 
of such things as are requisite; but those things which can be perceived only by 
mind are the special exercise for the mind. And their nature is triple according 
as we consider their quantity, their magnitude, and what can be predicated of 
them. For the discourse which consists of demonstrations, implants in the spirit 
of him who follows it, clear faith; so that he cannot conceive of that which is 
demonstrated being different; and so it does not allow us to succumb to those 
who assail us by fraud. In such studies, therefore, the soul is purged from 
sensible things, and is excited, so as to be able to see truth distinctly. For 
nutriment, and the training which is maintained gentle, make noble natures I; 
and noble natures, when they have received such training, become still better 
than before both in other respects, but especially in productiveness, as is the 
case with the other creatures. Wherefore it is mid, "Go to the ant, thou 
sluggard, and become wiser than it, which provideth much and, varied food in the 
harvest against the inclemency of winter." Or go to the bee, and learn how 
laborious she is; for she, feeding on the whole meadow, produces one honey-comb. 
And if "thou prayest in the closet," as the Lord taught, "to worship in spirit," 
thy management will no longer be solely occupied about the house, but also about 
the soul, what must be bestowed on it, and how, and how much; and what must be 
laid aside and treasured up in it; and when it ought to be produced, and to 
whom. For it is not by nature, but by learning, that people become noble and 
good, as people also become physicians and pilots. We all in common, for 
example, see the vine and the horse. But the husbandman will know if the vine be 
good or bad at fruit-bearing; and the horseman will easily distinguish between 
the spiritless and the swift animal. But that some are naturally predisposed to 
virtue above others, certain pursuits of those, who are so naturally predisposed 
above others, show. But that perfection in virtue is not the exclusive property 
of those, whose natures are better, is proved, since also those who by nature 
are ill-disposed towards virtue, in obtaining suitable training, for the most 
part attain to excellence; and, on the other hand, those whose natural 
dispositions are apt, become evil through neglect. 
Again, God has created us naturally social and just; whence justice must not 
be said to take its rise from implantation alone. But the good imparted by 
creation is to be conceived of as excited by the commandment; the soul being 
trained to be willing to select what is noblest. 
But as we say that a man can be a believer without learning, so also we 
assert that it is impossible for a man without learning to comprehend the things 
which are declared in the faith. But to adopt what is well said, and not to 
adopt the reverse, is caused not simply by faith, but by faith combined with 
knowledge. But if ignorance is want of training and of instruction, then 
teaching produces knowledge of divine and human things. But just as it is 
possible to live rightly in penury of this world's good things, so also in 
abundance. And we avow, that at once with more ease and more speed will one 
attain to virtue through previous training. But it is not such as to be 
unattainable without it; but it is attainable only when they have learned, and 
have had their senses exercised. "For hatred," says Solomon, "raises strife, but 
instruction guardeth the ways of life;" in such a way that we are not deceived 
nor deluded by those who are practised in base arts for the injury of those who 
hear. "But instruction wanders reproachless," it is said. We must be conversant 
with the art of reasoning, for the purpose of confuting the deceitful opinions 
of the sophists. Well and felicitously, therefore, does Anaxarchus write in his 
book respecting "kingly rule:" "Erudition benefits greatly and hurts greatly him 
who possesses it; it helps him who is worthy, and injures him who utters readily 
every word, and before the whole people. It is necessary to know the measure of 
time. For this is the end of wisdom. And those who sing at the doors, even if 
they sing skilfully, are not reckoned wise, but have the reputation of folly." 
And Hesiod: "Of the Muses, who make a man loquacious, divine, vocal." 
For him who is fluent in words he calls loquacious; and him who is clever, 
vocal; and "divine," him who is skilled, a philosopher, and acquainted with the 
truth. 
CHAPTER VII -- THE ECLECTIC PHILOSOPHY PAVES THE WAY FOR DIVINE VIRTUE. 
The Greek preparatory culture, therefore, with philosophy itself, is shown to 
have come down from God to men, not with a definite direction but in the way in 
which showers fail down on the good land, and on the dunghill, and on the 
houses. And similarly both the grass and the wheat sprout; and the figs and any 
other reckless trees grow on sepulchres. And things that grow, appear as a type 
of truths. For they enjoy the same influence of the rain. But they have not the 
same grace as those which spring up in rich soil, inasmuch as they are withered 
or plucked up. And here we are aided by the parable of the sower, which the Lord 
interpreted. For the husbandman of the soil which is among men is one; He who 
from the beginning, from the foundation of the world, sowed nutritious seeds; He 
who in each age rained down the Lord, the Word. But the times and places which 
received [such gifts], created the differences which exist. Further, the 
husbandman sows not only wheat (of which there are many varieties), but also 
other seeds -- barley, and beam, and peas, and vetches, and vegetable and flower 
seeds. And to the same husbandry belongs both planting and the operations 
necessary in the nurseries, and gardens, and orchards, and the planning and 
rearing of all sorts of trees In like manner, not only the care of sheep, but 
the care of herds, and breeding of horses, and dogs, and bee-craft, all arts, 
and to speak comprehensively, the care of flocks and the rearing of animals, 
differ from each other more or less, but are all useful for life. And philosophy 
-- I do not mean the Stoic, or the Platonic, or the Epicurean, or the 
Aristotelian, but whatever has been well said by each of those sects, which 
teach righteousness along with a science pervaded by piety, -- this eclectic 
whole I call philosophy. But such conclusions of human reasonings, as men have 
cut away and falsified, I would never call divine. 
And now we must look also at this, that if ever those who know not how to do 
well, live well; for they have lighted on well-doing. Some, too, have aimed well 
at the word of truth through understanding. "But Abraham was not justified by 
works, but by faith." It is therefore of no advantage to them after the end of 
life, even if they do good works now, if they have not faith. Wherefore also the 
Scriptures were translated into the language of the Greeks, in order that they 
might never be able to allege the excuse of ignorance, inasmuch as they are able 
to hear also what we have in our hands, if they only wish. One speaks in one way 
of the truth, in another way the truth interprets itself. The guessing at truth 
is one thing, and truth itself is another. Resemblance is one thing, the thing 
itself is another. And the one results from learning and practice, the other 
from power and faith. For the teaching of piety is a gift, but faith is grace. 
"For by doing the will of God we know the will of God." "Open, then," says the 
Scripture, "the gates of righteousness; and I will enter in, and confess to the 
Lord." But the paths to righteousness (since God saves in many ways, for He is 
good) are many and various, and lead to the Lord's way and gate. And if you ask 
the royal and true entrance, you will hear, "This is the gate of the Lord, the 
righteous shall enter in by it." While there are many gates open, that in 
righteousness is in Christ, by which all the blessed enter, and direct their 
steps in the sanctity of knowledge. Now Clemens, in his Epistle to the 
Corinthians, while expounding the differences of those who are approved 
according to the Church, says expressly, "One may be a believer; one may be 
powerful in uttering knowledge; one may be wise in discriminating between words; 
one may be terrible in deeds." 
CHAPTER VIII -- THE SOPHISTICAL ARTS USELESS. 
But the art of sophistry, which the Greeks cultivated, is a fantastic power, 
which makes false opinions like true by means of words. For it produces rhetoric 
in order to persuasion, and disputation for wrangling. These arts, therefore, if 
not conjoined with philosophy, will be injurious to every one. For Plato openly 
called sophistry "an evil art." And Aristotle, following him, demonstrates it to 
be a dishonest art, which abstracts in a specious manner the whole business of 
wisdom, and professes a wisdom which it has not studied. To speak briefly, as 
the beginning of rhetoric is the probable, and an attempted proof the process, 
and the end persuasion, so the beginning of disputation is what is matter of 
opinion, and the process a contest, and the end victory. For in the same manner, 
also, the beginning of sophistry is the apparent, and the process twofold; one 
of rhetoric, continuous and exhaustive; and the other of logic, and is 
interrogatory. And its end is admiration. 
The dialectic in vogue in the schools, on the other hand, is the exercise of 
a philosopher in matters of opinion, for the sake of the faculty of disputation. 
But truth is not in these at all. With reason, therefore, the noble apostle, 
depreciating these superfluous arts occupied about words, says, "If any man do 
not give heed to wholesome words, but is puffed up by a kind of teaching, 
knowing nothing, but doting (noswn) about questions and strifes of words, 
whereof cometh contention, envy, railings, evil surmisings, perverse disputings 
of men of corrupt minds, destitute of the truth." 
You see how he is moved against them, calling their art of logic -- on which, 
those to whom this garrulous mischievous art is dear, whether Greeks or 
barbarians, plume themselves -- a disease (nosos). Very beautifully, 
therefore, the tragic poet Euripides says in the Phoenissoe,- "But a wrongful 
speech Is diseased in itself, and needs skilful medicines." 
For the saving Word is called "wholesome," He being the truth; and what is 
wholesome (healthful) remains ever deathless. But separation from what is 
healthful and divine is impiety, and a deadly malady. These are rapacious wolves 
hid in sheep-skins, men-stealers, and glozing soul-seducers, secretly, but 
proved to be robbers; striving by fraud and force to catch us who are 
unsophisticated and have less power of speech. 
"Often a man, impeded through want of words, carries less weight In 
expressing what is right, than the man of eloquence. But now in fluent mouths 
the weightiest truths They disguise, so that they do not seem what they ought to 
seem," says the tragedy. Such are these wranglers, whether they follow the 
sects, or practise miserable dialectic arts. These are they that "stretch the 
warp and weave nothing," says the Scripture; prosecuting a bootless task, which 
the apostle has called "cunning craftiness of men whereby they lie in wait to 
deceive." "For there are," he says, "many unruly and vain talkers and 
deceivers:" Wherefore it was not said to all, "Ye are the salt of the earth." 
For there are some even of the hearers of the word who are like the fishes of 
the sea, which, reared from their birth in brine, yet need salt to dress them 
for food. Accordingly I wholly approve of the tragedy, when it says: "O son, 
false words can be well spoken, And truth may be vanquished by beauty of words. 
But this is not what is most correct, but nature and what is right; He who 
practises eloquence is indeed wise, But I consider deeds always better than 
words." We must not, then, aspire to please the multitude. For we do not 
practise what will please them, but what we know is remote from their 
disposition. "Let us not be desirous of vainglory,," says the apostle, 
"provoking one another, envying one another." Thus the truth-loving Plato says, 
as if divinely inspired, "Since I am such as to obey nothing but the word, 
which, after reflection, appears to me the best." Accordingly he charges those 
who credit opinions without intelligence and knowledge, with abandoning right 
and sound reason unwarrantably, and believing him who is a partner in falsehood. 
For to cheat one's self of the truth is bad; but to speak the truth, and to hold 
as our opinions positive realities, is good. 
Men are deprived of what is good unwillingly. Nevertheless they are deprived 
either by being deceived or beguiled, or by being compelled and not believing. 
He who believes not, has already made himself a willing captive; and he who 
changes his persuasion is cozened, while he forgets that time imperceptibly 
takes away some things, and reason others. And after an opinion has been 
entertained, pain and anguish, and on the other hand contentiousness and anger, 
compel. Above all, men are beguiled who are either bewitched by pleasure or 
terrified by fear. And all these are voluntary changes, but by none of these 
will knowledge ever be attained. 
CHAPTER IX -- HUMAN KNOWLEDGE NECESSARY FOR THE UNDERSTANDING OF THE 
SCRIPTURES. 
Some, who think themselves naturally gifted, do not wish to touch either 
philosophy or logic; nay more, they do not wish to learn natural science. They 
demand bare faith alone, as if they wished, without bestowing any care on the 
vine, straightway to gather clusters from the first. Now the Lord is 
figuratively described as the vine, from which, with pains and the art of 
husbandry, according to the word, the fruit is to be gathered. 
We must lop, dig, bind, and perform the other operations. The pruning-knife, 
I should think, and the pick-axe, and the other agricultural implements, are 
necessary for the culture of the vine, so that it may produce eatable fruit. And 
as in husbandry, so also in medicine: he has learned to purpose, who has 
practised the various lessons, so as to be able to cultivate and to heal. So 
also here, I call him truly learned who brings everything to bear on the truth; 
so that, from geometry, and music, and grammar, and philosophy itself, culling 
what is useful, he guards the faith against assault. Now, as was said, the 
athlete is despised who is not furnished for the contest. For instance, too, we 
praise the experienced helmsman who "has seen the cities of many men," and the 
physician who has had large experience; thus also some describe the empiric. And 
he who brings everything to bear on a fight life, procuring examples from the 
Greeks and barbarians, this man is an experienced searcher after truth, and in 
reality a man of much counsel, like the touch-stone (that is, the Lydian), which 
is believed to possess the power of distinguishing the spurious from the genuine 
gold. And our much-knowing gnostic can distinguish sophistry from philosophy, 
the art of decoration from gymnastics, cookery from physic, and rhetoric from 
dialectics, and the other sects which are according to the barbarian philosophy, 
from the truth itself. And how necessary is it for him who desires to be 
partaker of the power of God, to treat of intellectual subjects by 
philosophising! And how serviceable is it to distinguish expressions which are 
ambiguous, and which in the Testaments are used synonymously! For the Lord, at 
the time of His temptation, skilfully matched the devil by an ambiguous 
expression. And I do not yet, in this connection, see how in the world the 
inventor of philosophy and dialectics, as some suppose, is seduced through being 
deceived by the form of speech which consists in ambiguity. And if the prophets 
and apostles knew not the arts by which the exercises of philosophy are 
exhibited, yet the mind of the prophetic and instructive spirit, uttered 
secretly, because all have not an intelligent ear, demands skilful modes of 
teaching in order to clear exposition. For the prophets and disciples of the 
Spirit knew infallibly their mind. For they knew it by faith, in a way which 
others could not easily, as the Spirit has said. But it is not possible for 
those who have not learned to receive it thus. "Write," it is said, "the 
commandments doubly, in counsel and knowledge, that thou mayest answer the words 
of truth to them who send unto thee." What, then, is the knowledge of answering? 
or what that of asking? It is dialectics. What then? Is not speaking our 
business, and does not action proceed from the Word? For if we act not for the 
Word, we shall act against reason. But a rational work is accomplished through 
God. "And nothing," it is said, "was made without Him" -- the Word of God. 
And did not the Lord make all things by the Word? Even the beasts work, 
driven by compelling fear. And do not those who are called orthodox apply 
themselves to good works, knowing not what they do? 
CHAPTER X -- TO ACT WELL OF GREATER CONSEQUENCE THAN TO SPEAK WELL. 
Wherefore the Saviour, taking the bread, first spake and blessed. Then 
breaking the bread, He presented it, that we might eat it, according to reason, 
and that knowing the Scriptures s we might walk obediently. And as those whose 
speech is evil are no better than those whose practice is evil (for calumny is 
the servant of the sword, and evil-speaking inflicts pain; and from these 
proceed disasters in life, such being the effects of evil speech); so also those 
who are given to good speech are near neighbours to those who accomplish good 
deeds. Accordingly discourse refreshes the soul and entices it to nobleness; and 
happy is he who has the use of both his hands. Neither, therefore, is he who can 
act well to be vilified by him who is able to speak well; nor is he who is able 
to speak well to be disparaged by him who is capable of acting well. But let 
each do that for which he is naturally fitted. 
What the one exhibits as actually done, the other speaks, preparing, as it 
were, the way for well-doing, and leading the hearers to the practice of good. 
For there is a saving word, as there is a saving work. Righteousness, 
accordingly, is not constituted without discourse. And as the receiving of good 
is abolished if we abolish the doing of good; so obedience and faith are 
abolished when neither the command, nor one to expound the command, is taken 
along with us. But now we are benefited mutually and reciprocally by words and 
deeds; but we must repudiate entirely the art of wrangling and sophistry, since 
these sentences of the sophists not only bewitch and beguile the many, but 
sometimes by violence win a Cadmean victory. For true above all is that Psalm, 
"The just shall live to the end, for he shall not see corruption, when he 
beholds the wise dying." And whom does he call wise? Hear from the Wisdom of 
Jesus: "Wisdom is not the knowledge of evil." Such he calls what the arts of 
speaking and of discussing have invented. "Thou shalt therefore seek wisdom 
among the wicked, and shalt not find it." And if you inquire again of what sort 
this is, you are told, "The mouth of the righteous man will distil wisdom." And 
simi larly with truth, the art of sophistry is called wisdom. 
But it is my purpose, as I reckon, and not without reason, to live according 
to the Word, and to understand what is revealed; but never affecting eloquence, 
to be content merely with indicating my meaning. And by what term that which I 
wish to present is shown, I care not. For I well know that to be saved, and to 
aid those who desire to be saved, is the best thing, and not to compose paltry 
sentences like gewgaws. "And if," says the Pythagorean in the Politicus of 
Plato, "you guard against solicitude about terms, you will be richer in wisdom 
against old age." And in the Theaetetus you will find again, "And carelessness 
about names, and expressions, and the want of nice scrutiny, is not vulgar and 
illiberal for the most part, but rather the reverse of this, and is sometimes 
necessary." This the Scripture has expressed with the greatest possible brevity, 
when it said, "Be not occupied much about words." For expression is like the 
dress on the body. The matter is the flesh and sinews. We must not therefore 
care more for the dress than the safety of the body. For not only a simple mode 
of life, but also a style of speech devoid of superfluity and nicety, must be 
cultivated by him who has adopted the true life, if we are to abandon luxury as 
treacherous and profligate, as the ancient Lacedaemonians adjured ointment and 
purple, deeming and calling them rightly treacherous garments and treacherous 
unguents; since neither is that mode of preparing food right where there is more 
of seasoning than of nutriment; nor is that style of speech elegant which can 
please rather than benefit the hearers. Pythagoras exhorts us to consider the 
Muses more pleasant than the Sirens, teaching us to cultivate wisdom apart from 
pleasure, and exposing the other mode of attracting the soul as deceptive. For 
sailing past the Sirens one man has sufficient strength, and for answering the 
Sphinx another one, or, if you please, not even one. We ought never, then, out 
of desire for vainglory, to make broad the phylacteries. It suffices the gnostic 
if only one hearer is found for him. You may hear therefore Pindar the Boeotian, 
who writes, "Divulge not before all the ancient speech. The way of silence is 
sometimes the surest. And the mightiest word is a spur to the fight." 
Accordingly, the blessed apostle very appropriately and urgently exhorts us "not 
to strive about words to no profit, but to the subverting of the hearers, but to 
shun profane and vain babblings, for they increase unto more ungodliness, and 
their word will eat as doth a canker." 
CHAPTER XI -- WHAT IS THE PHILOSOPHY WHICH THE APOSTLE BIDS US SHUN? 
This, then, "the wisdom of the world is foolishness with God," and of those 
who are "the wise the Lord knoweth their thoughts that they are vain." Let no 
man therefore glory on account of pre-eminence in human thought. For it is 
written well in Jeremiah, "Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, and let not 
the mighty man glory in his might, and let not the rich man glory in his riches: 
but let him that glorieth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth that 
I am the Lord, that executeth mercy and judgment and righteousness upon the 
earth: for in these things is my delight, saith the Lord." "That we should trust 
not in ourselves, but in God who raiseth the dead," says the apostle, "who 
delivered us from so great a death, that our faith should not stand in the 
wisdom of men, but in the power of God." "For the spiritual man judgeth all 
things, but he himself is judged of no man." I hear also those words of his, 
"And these things I say, lest any man should beguile you with enticing words, or 
one should enter in to spoil you." And again, "Beware lest any man spoil you 
through philosophy and vain deceit, after the tradition of men, after the 
rudiments of the world, and not after Christ;" branding not all philosophy, but 
the Epicurean, which Paul mentions in the Acts of the Apostles, which abolishes 
providence and deifies pleasure, and whatever other philosophy honours the 
elements, but places not over them the efficient cause, nor apprehends the 
Creator. 
The Stoics also, whom he mentions too, say not well that the Deity, being a 
body, pervades the vilest matter. He calls the jugglery of logic "the tradition 
of men." Wherefore also he adds, "Avoid juvenile questions. For such contentions 
are puerile." "But virtue is no lover of boys," says the philosopher Plato. And 
our struggle, accOrding to Gorgias Leontinus, requires two virtues -- boldness 
and wisdom, -- boldness to undergo danger, and wisdom to understand the enigma. 
For the Word, like the Olympian proclamation, calls him who is wiring, and 
crowns him who is able to continue unmoved as far as the truth is concerned. 
And, in truth, the Word does not wish him who has believed to be idle. For He 
says, "Seek, and ye shall find." But seeking ends in finding, driving out the 
empty trifling, and approving of the contemplation which confirms our faith. 
"And this I say, lest any man beguile you with enticing words,'' says the 
apostle, evidently as having learned to distinguish what was said by him, and as 
being taught to meet objections. "As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the 
Lord, so walk in Him, rooted and built up in Him, and stablished in the faith." 
Now persuasion is [the means of] being established in the faith. "Beware lest 
any man spoil you of faith in Christ by philosophy and vain deceit," which does 
away with providence, "after the tradition of men;" for the philosophy which is 
in accordance with divine tradition establishes and confirms providence, which, 
being done away with, the economy of the Saviour appears a myth, while we are 
influenced "after the elements of the world, and not after Christ." For the 
teaching which is agreeable to Christ deifies the Creator, and traces providence 
in particular events, and knows the nature of the elements to be capable of 
change and production, and teaches that we ought to aim at rising up to the 
power which assimilates to God, and to prefer the dispensation as holding the 
first rank and superior to all training. 
The elements are worshipped, -- the air by Diogenes, the water by Thales, the 
fire by Hippasus; and by those who suppose atoms to be the first principles of 
things, arrogating the name of philosophers, being wretched creatures devoted to 
pleasure. "Wherefore I pray," says the apostle, "that your love may abound yet 
more and more, in knowledge and in all judgment, that ye may approve things that 
are excellent." "Since, when we were children," says the same apostle, "we were 
kept in bondage under the rudiments of the world. And the child, though heir, 
differeth nothing from a servant, till the time appointed of the father." 
Philosophers, then, are children, unless they have been made men by Christ. "For 
if the son of the bond woman shall not be heir with the son of the free," at 
least he is the seed of Abraham, though not of promise, receiving what belongs 
to him by free gift. "But strong meat belongeth to those that are of full age, 
even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good 
and evil." "For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of 
righteousness; for he is a babe," and not yet acquainted with the word, 
according to which he has believed and works, and not able to give a reason in 
himself. "Prove all things," the apostle says, "and hold fast that which is 
good," speaking to spiritual men, who judge what is said according to truth, 
whether it seems or truly holds by the truth. "He who is not corrected by 
discipline errs, and stripes and reproofs give the discipline of wisdom," the 
reproofs manifestly that are with love. "For the right heart seeketh knowledge." 
"For he that seeketh the Lord shall find knowledge with righteousness; and they 
who have sought it rightly have found peace." "And I will know," it is said, 
"not the speech of those which are puffed up, but the power." In rebuke of those 
who are wise in appearance, and think themselves wise, but are not in reality 
wise, he writes: "For the kingdom of God is not in word." It is not in that 
which is not true, but which is only probable according to opinion; but he said 
"in power," for the truth alone is powerful. And again: "If any man thinketh 
that he knoweth anything, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know." For truth 
is never mere opinion. But the "supposition of knowledge inflates," and fills 
with pride; "but charity edifieth," which deals not in supposition, but in 
truth. Whence it is said, "If any man loves, he is known." 
CHAPTER XII -- THE MYSTERIES OF THE FAITH NOT TO BE DIVULGED TO ALL. 
But since this tradition is not published alone for him who perceives the 
magnificence of the word; it is requisite, therefore, to hide in a mystery the 
wisdom spoken, which the Son of God taught. Now, therefore, Isaiah the prophet 
has his tongue purified by fire, so that he may be able to tell the vision. And 
we must purify not the tongue alone, but also the ears, if we attempt to be 
partaken of the truth. 
Such were the impediments in the way of my writing. And even now I fear, as 
it is said, "to cast the pearls before swine, lest they tread them under foot, 
and turn and rend us." For it is difficult to exhibit the really pure and 
transparent words respecting the true light, to swinish and untrained hearers. 
For scarcely could anything which they could hear be more ludicrous than these 
to the multitude; nor any subjects on the other hand more admirable or more 
inspiring to those of noble nature. "But the natural man receiveth not the 
things of the Spirit of God; for they are foolishness to him." But the wise do 
not utter with their mouth what they reason in council. "But what ye hear in the 
ear," says the Lord, "proclaim upon the houses;" bidding them receive the secret 
traditions of the true knowledge, and expound them aloft and conspicuously; and 
as we have heard in the ear, so to deliver them to whom it is requisite; but not 
enjoining us to communicate to all without distinction, what is said to them in 
parables. But there is only a delineation in the memoranda, which have the truth 
sowed sparse and broadcast, that it may escape the notice of those who pick up 
seeds like jackdaws; but when they find a good husbandman, each one of them will 
germinate and produce corn. 
CHAPTER XIII -- ALL SECTS OF PHILOSOPHY CONTAIN A GERM OF TRUTH. 
Since, therefore, truth is one (for falsehood has ten thousand by-paths); 
just as the Bacchantes tore asunder the limbs of Pentheus, so the sects both of 
barbarian and Hellenic philosophy have done with truth, and each vaunts as the 
whole truth the portion which has fallen to its lot. But all, in my opinion, are 
illuminated by the dawn of Light. Let all, therefore, both Greeks and 
barbarians, who have aspired after the truth, -- both those who possess not a 
little, and those who have any portion, -- produce whatever they have of the 
word of truth. 
Eternity, for instance, presents in an instant the future and the present, 
also the past of time. But truth, much more powerful than limitless duration, 
can collect its proper germs, though they have fallen on foreign soil. For we 
shall find that very many of the dogmas that are held by such sects as have not 
become utterly senseless, and are not cut out from the order of nature (by 
cutting off Christ, as the women of the fable dismembered the man), though 
appearing unlike one another, correspond in their origin and with the truth as a 
whole. For they coincide in one, either as a part, or a species, or a genus. For 
instance, though the highest note is different from the lowest note, yet both 
compose one harmony. And in numbers an even number differs from an odd number; 
but both suit in arithmetic; as also is the case with figure, the circle, and 
the triangle, and the square, and whatever figures differ from one another. 
Also, in the whole universe, all the parts, though differing one from another, 
preserve their relation to the whole. So, then, the barbarian and Hellenic 
philosophy has torn off a fragment of eternal truth not from the mythology of 
Dionysus, but from the theology of the ever-living Word. And He who brings again 
together the separate fragments, and makes them one, will without peril, be 
assured, contemplate the perfect Word, the truth. Therefore it is written in 
Ecclesiastes: "And I added wisdom above all who were before me in Jerusalem; and 
my heart saw many things; and besides, I knew wisdom and knowledge, parables and 
understanding. And this also is the choice of the spirit, because in abundance 
of wisdom is abundance of knowledge." He who is conversant with all kinds of 
wisdom, will be pre-eminently a gnostic. 
Now it is written, "Abundance of the knowledge of wisdom will give life to 
him who is of it." And again, what is said is confirmed more clearly by this 
saying, "All things are in the sight of those who understand" -- all things, 
both Hellenic and barbarian; but the one or the other is not all. "They are 
right to those who wish to receive understanding. Choose instruction, and not 
silver, and knowledge above tested gold," and prefer also sense to pure gold; 
"for wisdom is better than precious stones, and no precious thing is worth it." 
CHAPTER XIV -- SUCCESSION OF PHILOSOPHERS IN GREECE. 
The Greeks say, that after Orpheus and Linus, and the most ancient of the 
poets that appeared among them, the seven, called wise, were the first that were 
admired for their wisdom. Of whom four were of Asia -- Thales of Miletus, and 
Bias of Priene, Pittacus of Mitylene, and Cleobulus of Lindos; and two of 
Europe, Solon the Athenian, and Chilon the Lacedaemonian; and the seventh, some 
say, was Periander of Corinth; others, Anacharsis the Scythian; others, 
Epimenides the Cretan, whom Paul knew as a Greek prophet, whom he mentions in 
the Epistle to Titus, where he speaks thus: "One of themselves, a prophet of 
their own, said, The Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, slow bellies. And 
this witness is true." You see how even to the prophets of the Greeks he 
attributes something of the truth, and is not ashamed, when discours ing for the 
edification of some and the shaming of others, to make use of Greek poems. 
Accordingly to the Corinthians (for this is not the only instance), while 
discoursing on the resurrection of the dead, he makes use of a tragic Iambic 
line, when he said, "What advantageth it me if the dead are not raised? Let us 
eat and drink, for to-morrow we die. Be not deceived; evil communications 
corrupt good manners." Others have enumerated Acusilaus the Argive among the 
seven wise men; and others, Pherecydes of Syros. And Plato substitutes Myso the 
Chenian for Periander, whom he deemed unworthy of wisdom, on account of his 
having reigned as a tyrant. That the wise men among the Greeks flourished after 
the age of Moses, will, a little after, be shown. But the style of philosophy 
among them, as Hebraic and enigmatical, is now to be considered. They adopted 
brevity, as suited for exhortation, and most useful. 
Even Plato says, that of old this mode was purposely in vogue among all the 
Greeks, especially the Lacedaemonians and Cretans, who enjoyed the best laws. 
The expression, "Know thyself," some supposed to be Chilon's. But Chamaeleon, in 
his book About the Gods, ascribes it to Thales; Aristotle to the Pythian. It may 
be an injunction to the pursuit of knowledge. For it is not possible to know the 
parts without the essence of the whole; and one must study the genesis of the 
universe, that thereby we may be able to learn the nature of man. Again, to 
Chilon the Lacedaemonian they attribute, "Let nothing be too much." Strato, in 
his book Of Inventions, ascribes the apophthegm to Stratodemus of Tegea. Didymus 
assigns it to Solon; as also to Cleobulus the saying, "A middle course is best." 
And the expression, "Come under a pledge, and mischief is at hand," Cleomenes 
says, in his book Concerning Hesiod, was uttered before by Homer in the lines: 
"Wretched pledges, for the wretched, to be pledged." 
The Aristotelians judge it to be Chilon's; but Didymus says the advice was 
that of Thales. Then, next in order, the saying, "All men are bad," or, "The 
most of men are bad" (for the same apophthegm is expressed in two ways), Sotades 
the Byzantian says that it was Bias's. And the aphorism, "Practice conquers 
everything," they will have it to be Periander's; and likewise the advice, "Know 
the opportunity," to have been a saying of Pittacus. Solon made laws for the 
Athenians, Pittacus for the Mitylenians. And at a late date, Pythagoras, the 
pupil of Pherecydes, first called himself a philosopher. Accordingly, after the 
fore-mentioned three men, there were three schools of philosophy, named after 
the places where they lived: the Italic from Pythagoras, the Ionic from Thales, 
the Eleatic from Xenophanes. Pythagoras was a Samian, the son of Mnesarchus, as 
Hippobotus says: cording to Aristoxenus, in his life of Pythagoras and 
Aristarchus and Theopompus, he was a Tuscan; and according to Neanthes, a Syrian 
or a Tyrian. So that Pythagoras was, according to the most, of barbarian 
extraction. Thaies, too, as Leander and Herodotus relate, was a Phoenician; as 
some suppose, a Milesian. He alone seems to have met the prophets of the 
Egyptians. But no one is described as his teacher, nor is any one mentioned as 
the teacher of Pherecydes of Syros, who had Pythagoras as his pupil. But the 
Italic philosophy, that of Pythagoras, grew old in Metapontum in Italy. 
Anaximander of Miletus, the son of Praxiades, succeeded Thales; and was himself 
succeeded by Anaximenes of Miletus, the son of Eurustratus; after whom came 
Anaxagoras of Clazomenae, the son of Hegesibulus. He transferred his school from 
Ionia to Athens. He was succeeded by Archelaus, whose pupil Socrates was. 
"From these turned aside, the stone-mason; Talker about laws; the enchanter 
of the Greeks," says Timon in his Satirical Poems, on account of his quitting 
physics for ethics. Antisthenes, after being a pupil of Socrates, introduced the 
Cynic philosophy; and Plato withdrew to the Academy. Aristotle, after studying 
philosophy under Plato, withdrew to the Lyceum, and founded the Peripatetic 
sect. He was succeeded by Theophrastus, who was succeeded by Strato, and he by 
Lycon, then Critolaus, and then Diodorus. Speusippus was the successor of Plato; 
his successor was Xenocrates; and the successor of the latter, Polemo. And the 
disciples of Polemo were Crates and Crantor, in whom the old Academy founded by 
Plato ceased. Arcesilaus was the associate of Crantor; from whom, down to 
Hegesilaus, the Middle Academy flourished. Then Carneades succeeded Hegesilaus, 
and others came in succession. The disciple of Crates was Zeno of Citium, the 
founder of the Stoic sect. He was succeeded by Cleanthes; and the latter by 
Chrysippus, and others after him. Xenophanes of Colophon was the founder of the 
Eleatic school, who, Timaeus says, lived in the time of Hiero, lord of Sicily, 
and Epicharmus the poet; and Apollodorus says that he was born in the fortieth 
Olympiad, and reached to the times of Darius and Cyrus. 
Parmenides, accordingly, was the disciple of Xenophanes, and Zeno of him; 
then came Leu cippus, and then Democritus. Disciples of Democritus were 
Protagoras of Abdera, and Metrodorus of Chios, whose pupil was Diogenes of 
Smyrna; and his again Anaxarchus, and his Pyrrho, and his Nausiphanes. Some say 
that Epicurus was a scholar of his. 
Such, in an epitome, is the succession of the philosophers among the Greeks. 
The periods of the originators of their philosophy are now to be specified 
successively, in order that, by comparison, we may show that the Hebrew: 
philosophy was older by many generations. 
It has been said of Xenophanes that he was the founder of the Eleatic 
philosophy. And Eudemus, in the Astrological Histories, says that Thales 
foretold the eclipse of the sun, which took place at the time that the Medians 
and the Lydians fought, in the reign of Cyaxares the father of Astyages over the 
Medes, and of Alyattus the son of Croesus over the Lydians. Herodotus in his 
first book agrees with him. The date is about the fiftieth Olympiad. Pythagoras 
is ascertained to have lived in the days of Polycrates the tyrant, about the 
sixty-second Olympiad. Mnesiphilus is described as a follower of Solon, and was 
a contemporary of Themistocles. Solon therefore flourished about the forty-sixth 
Olympiad. For Heraclitus, the son of Bauso, persuaded Melancomas the tyrant to 
abdicate his sovereignty. He despised the invitation of king Darius to visit the 
Persians. 
CHAPTER XV -- THE GREEK PHILOSOPHY IN GREAT PART DERIVED FROM THE BARBARIANS. 

These are the times of the oldest wise men and philosophers among the Greeks. 
And that the most of them were barbarians by extraction, and were trained among 
barbarians, what need is there to say? Pythagoras is shown to have been either a 
Tuscan or a Tyrian. And Antisthenes was a Phrygian. And Orpheus was an Odrysian 
or a Thracian. The most, too, show Homer to have been an Egyptian. Thales was a 
Phoenician by birth, and was said to have consorted with the prophets of the 
Egyptians; as also Pythagoras did with the same persons, by whom he was 
circumcised, that he might enter the adytum and learn from the Egyptians the 
mystic philosophy. He held converse with the chief of the Chaldeans and the 
Magi; and he gave a hint of the church, now so called, in the common hall which 
he maintained. 
And Plato does not deny that he procured all that is most excellent in 
philosophy from the barbarians; and he admits that he came into Egypt. Whence, 
writing in the Phoedo that the philosopher can receive aid from all sides, he 
said: "Great indeed is Greece, O Cebes, in which everywhere there are good men, 
and many are the races of the barbarians." Thus Plato thinks that some of the 
barbarians, too, are philosophers. But Epicurus, on the other hand, supposes 
that only Greeks can philosophise. And in the Symposium, Plato, landing the 
barbarians as practising philosophy with conspicuous excellence, truly says: 
"And in many other instances both among Greeks and barbarians, whose temples 
reared for such sons are already numerous." And it is clear that the barbarians 
signally honoured their lawgivers and teachers, designating them gods. For, 
according to Plato, "they think that good souls, on quitting the supercelestial 
region, submit to come to this Tartarus; and assuming a body, share in all the 
ills which are involved in birth, from their solicitude for the race of men;" 
and these make laws and publish philosophy, "than which no greater boon ever 
came from the gods to the race of men, or will come." 
And as appears to me, it was in consequence of perceiving the great benefit 
which is conferred through wise men, that the men themselves Were honoured and 
philosophy cultivated publicly by all the Brahmins, and the Odrysi, and the 
Getae. And such were strictly deified by the race of the Egyptians, by the 
Chaldeans and the Arabians, called the Happy, and those that inhabited 
Palestine, by not the least portion of the Persian race, and by innumerable 
other races besides these. And it is well known that Plato is found perpetually 
celebrating the barbarians, remembering that both himself and Pythagoras learned 
the most and the noblest of their dogmas among the barbarians. Wherefore he also 
called the races of the barbarians, "races of barbarian philosophers," 
recognising, in the Phaedrus, the Egyptian king, and shows him to us wiser than 
Theut, whom he knew to be Hermes. But in the Charmides, it is manifest that he 
knew certain Thracians who were said to make the soul immortal. And Pythagoras 
is reported to have been a disciple of Sonches the Egyptian arch-prophet; and 
Plato, of Sechnuphis of Heliopolis; and Eudoxus, of Cnidius of Konuphis, who was 
also an Egyptian. And in his book, On the Saul, Plato again manifestly 
recognises prophecy, when he introduces a prophet announcing the word of 
Lachesis, uttering predictions to the souls whose destiny is becoming fixed. And 
in the Timoeus he introduces Solon, the very wise, learning from the barbarian. 
The substance of the declaration is to the following effect: "O Solon, Solon, 
you Greeks are always children. And no Greek is an old man. For you have no 
learning that is hoary with age." 
Democritus appropriated the Babylonian ethic discourses, for he is said to 
have combined with his own compositions a translation of the column of Acicarus. 
And you may find the distinction notified by him when he writes, "Thus says 
Democritus." About himself, too, where, pluming himself on his erudition, he 
says, "I have roamed over the most ground of any man of my time, investigating 
the most remote parts. I have seen the most skies and lands, and I have heard of 
learned men in very great numbers. And in composition no one has surpassed me; 
in demonstration, not even those among the Egyptians who are called 
Arpenodaptae, with all of whom I lived in exile up to eighty years." For he went 
to Babylon, and Persis, and Egypt, to learn from the Magi and the priests. 
Zoroaster the Magus, Pythagoras showed to be a Persian. Of the secret books 
of this man, those who follow the heresy of Prodicus boast to be in possession. 
Alexander, in his book On the Pythagorean Symbols, relates that Pythagoras was a 
pupil of Nazaratus the Assyrian a (some think that he is Ezekiel; but he is not, 
as will afterwards be shown), and will have it that, in addition to these, 
Pythagoras was a hearer of the Galatae and the Brahmins. 
Clearchus the Peripatetic says that he knew a Jew who associated with 
Aristotle. Heraclitus says that, not humanly, but rather by God's aid, the Sibyl 
spoke. They say, accordingly, that at Delphi a stone was shown beside the 
oracle, on which, it is said, sat the first Sibyl, who came from Helicon, and 
had been reared by the Muses. But some say that she came from Milea, being the 
daughter of Lamia of Sidon. And Serapion, in his epic verses, says that the 
Sibyl, even when dead ceased not from divination. And he writes that, what 
proceeded from her into the air after her death, was what gave oracular 
utterances in voices and omens; and on her body being changed into earth, and 
the grass as natural growing out of it, whatever beasts happening to be in that 
place fed on it exhibited to men an accurate knowledge of futurity by their 
entrails. He thinks also, that the face seen in the moon is her soul. So much 
for the Sibyl. 
Numa the king of the Romans was a Pythagorean, and aided by the precepts of 
Moses, prohibited from making an image of God in human form, and of the shape of 
a living creature. Accordingly, during the first hundred and seventy years, 
though building temples, they made no cast or graven image. For Numa secretly 
showed them that the Best of Beings could not be apprehended except by the mind 
alone. Thus philosophy, a thing of the highest utility, flourished in antiquity 
among the barbarians, shedding its light over the nations. And afterwards it 
came to Greece. First in its ranks were the prophets of the Egyptians; and the 
Chaldeans among the Assyrians; and the Druids among the Gauls; and the 
Samanaeans among the Bactrians; and the philosophers of the Celts; and the Magi 
of the Persians, who foretold the Saviour's birth, and came into the land of 
Judaea guided by a star. The Indian gymnosophists are also in the number, and 
the other barbarian philosophers. And of these there are two classes, some of 
them called Sarmanae, and others Brahmins. And those of the Sarmanae who are 
called Hylobii neither inhabit cities, nor have roofs over them, but are clothed 
in the bark of trees, feed on nuts, and drink water in their hands. Like those 
called Encratites in the present day, they know not marriage nor begetting of 
children. 
Some, too, of the Indians obey the precepts of Buddha; whom, on account of 
his extraordinary sanctity, they have raised to divine honours. 
Anacharsis was a Scythian, and is recorded to have excelled many philosophers 
among the Greeks. And the Hyperboreans, Hellanicus relates, dwelt beyond the 
Riphaean mountains, and inculcated justice, not eating flesh, but using nuts. 
Those who are sixty years old they take without the gates, and do away with. 
There are also among the Germans those called sacred women, who, by inspecting 
the whirlpools of rivers and the eddies, and observing the noises of streams, 
presage and predict future events. These did not allow the men to fight against 
Caesar till the new moon shone. 
Of all these, by far the oldest is the Jewish race; and that their philosophy 
committed to writing has the precedence of philosophy among the Greeks, the 
Pythagorean Philo shows at large; and, besides him, Aristobulus the Peripatetic, 
and several others, not to waste time, in going over them by name. Very clearly 
the author Megasthenes, the contemporary of Seleucus Nicanor, writes as follows 
in the third of his books, On Indian Affairs: "All that was said about nature by 
the ancients is said also by those who philosophise beyond Greece: some things 
by the Brahmins among the Indians, and others by those called Jews in Syria." 
Some more. fabulously say that certain of those called the Idaean Dactyli were 
the first wise men; to whom are attributed the invention of what are called the 
"Ephesian letters," and of numbers in music. For which reason dactyls in music 
received their name. And the Idaean Dactyli were Phrygians and barbarians. 
Herodotus relates that Hercules, having grown a sage and a student of physics, 
received from the barbarian Atlas, the Phrygian, the columns of the universe; 
the fable meaning that he received by instruction the knowledge of the heavenly 
bodies. And Hermippus of Berytus calls Charon the Centaur wise; about whom, he 
that wrote The Battle of the Titans says, "that he first led the race of mortals 
to righteousness, by teaching them the solemnity of the oath, and propitiatory 
sacrifices and the figures of Olympus." By him Achilles, who fought at Troy, was 
taught. And Hippo, the daughter of the Centaur, who dwelt with olus, taught him 
her father's science, the knowledge of physics. Euripides also testifies of 
Hippo as follows: "Who first, by oracles, presaged, And by the rising stars, 
events divine." 
By this olus, Ulysses was received as a guest after the taking of Troy. Mark 
the epochs by comparison with the age of Moses, and with the high antiquity of 
the philosophy promulgated by him. 
CHAPTER XVI -- THAT THE INVENTORS OF OTHER ARTS WERE MOSTLY BARBARIANS. 
And barbarians were inventors not only of philosophy, but almost of every 
art. The Egyptians were the first to introduce astrology among men. Similarly 
also the Chaldeans. The Egyptians first showed how to burn lamps, and divided 
the year into twelve months, prohibited intercourse with women in the temples, 
and enacted that no one should enter the temples from a woman without bathing. 
Again, they were the inventors of geometry. There are some who say that the 
Carians invented prognostication by the stars. The Phrygians were the first who 
attended to the flight of birds. And the Tuscans, neighbours of Italy, were 
adepts at the art of the Haruspex. The Isaurians and the Arabians invented 
augury, as the Telmesians divination by dreams. The Etruscans invented the 
trumpet, and the Phrygians the flute. For Olympus and Marsyas were Phrygians. 
And Cadmus, the inventor of letters among the Greeks, as Euphorus says, was a 
Phoenician; whence also Herodotus writes that they were called Phoenician 
letters. And they say that the Phoenicians and the Syrians first invented 
letters; and that Apis, an aboriginal inhabitant of Egypt, invented the healing 
art before Io came into Egypt. But afterwards they say that Asclepius improved 
the art. Atlas the Libyan was the first who built a ship and navigated the sea. 
Kelmis and Damnaneus, Idaean Dactyli, first discovered iron in Cyprus. Another 
Idaean discovered the tempering of brass; according to Hesiod, a Scythian. The 
Thracians first invented what is called a scimitar (arph), -- it is a 
curved sword, -- and were the first to use shields on horseback. Similarly also 
the Illyrians invented the shield (pelth). Besides, they say that the 
Tuscans invented the art of moulding clay; and that Itanus (he was a Samnite) 
first fashioned the oblong shield (qureos). Cadmus the Phoenician 
invented stonecutting, and discovered the gold mines on the Pangaean mountain. 
Further, another nation, the Cappadocians, first invented the instrument called 
the nabla, and the Assyrians in the same way the dichord. The Carthaginians were 
the first that constructed a triterme; and it was built by Bosporus, an 
aboriginal. Medea, the daughter of etas, a Colchian, first invented the dyeing 
of hair. Besides, the Noropes (they are a Paeonian race, and are now called the 
Norici) worked copper, and were the first that purified iron. Amycus the king of 
the Bebryci was the first inventor of boxing-gloves. In music, Olympus the 
Mysian practised the Lydian harmony; and the people called Troglodytes invented 
the sambuca, a musical instrument. It is said that the crooked pipe was invented 
by Satyrus the Phrygian; likewise also diatonic harmony by Hyagnis, a Phrygian 
too; and notes by Olympus, a Phrygian; as also the Phrygian harmony, and the 
half-Phrygian and the half-Lydian, by Marsyas, who belonged to the same region 
as those mentioned above. And the Doric was invented by Thamyris the Thracian. 
We have heard that the Persians were the first who fashioned the chariot, and 
bed, and footstool; and the Sidonians the first to construct a trireme. The 
Sicilians, close to Italy, were the first inventors of the phorminx, which is 
not much inferior to the lyre. And they invented castanets. In the time of 
Semiramis queen of the Assyrians, they relate that linen garments were invented. 
And Hellanicus says that Atossa queen of the Persians was the first who composed 
a letter. These things are reported by Seame of Mitylene, Theophrastus of 
Ephesus, Cydippus of Mantinea also Antiphanes, Aristodemus, and Aristotle and 
besides these, Philostephanus, and also Strato the Peripatetic, in his books 
Concerning Inventions. I have added a few details from them, in order to confirm 
the inventive and practically useful genius of the barbarians, by whom the 
Greeks profited in their studies. And if any one objects to the barbarous 
language, Anacharsis says, "All the Greeks speak Scythian to me." It was he who 
was held in admiration by the Greeks, who said, "My covering is a cloak; my 
supper, milk and cheese." You see that the barbarian philosophy professes deeds, 
not words. The apostle thus speaks: "So likewise ye, except ye utter by the 
tongue a word easy to be understood, how shall ye know what is spoken? for ye 
shall speak into the air. There are, it may be, so many kind of voices in the 
world, and none of them is without signification. Therefore if I know not the 
meaning of the voice, I shall be unto him that speaketh a barbarian, and he that 
speaketh shall be a barbarian unto me." And, "Let him that speaketh in an 
unknown tongue pray that he may interpret." 
Nay more, it was late before the teaching and writing of discourses reached 
Greece. Alcmaeon, the son of Perithus, of Crotona, first composed a treatise on 
nature. And it is related that Anaxagoras of Clazomenae, the son of Hegesibulus, 
first published a book in writing. The first to adapt music to poetical 
compositions was Terpander of Antissa; and he set the laws of the Lacedaemonians 
to music. Lasus of Hermione invented the dithyramb; Stesichorus of Himera, the 
hymn; Alcman the Spartan, the choral song; Anacreon of Tees, love songs; Pindar 
the Theban, the dance accompanied with song. Timotheus of Miletus was the first 
to execute those musical compositions called nomoi on the lyre, with 
dancing. Moreover, the iambus was invented by Archilochus of Pares, and the 
choliambus by Hipponax of Ephesus. Tragedy owed its origin to Thespis the 
Athenian, and comedy to Susarion of Icaria. Their dates are handed down by the 
grammarians. But it were tedious to specify them accurately: presently, however, 
Dionysus, on whose account the Dionysian spectacles are celebrated, will be 
shown to be later than Moses. They say that Antiphon of Rhamnusium, the son of 
Sophilus, first invented scholastic discourses and rhetorical figures, and was 
the first who pied causes for a fee, and wrote a forensic speech for delivery, 
as Diodorus says. And Apollodorus of Cuma first assumed the name of critic, and 
was called a grammarian. Some say it was Eratosthenes of Cyrene who was first so 
called, since he published two books which he entitled Grammatica. The first who 
was called a grammarian, as we now use the term, was Praxiphanes, the son of 
Disnysophenes of Mitylene. Zeleucus the Locrian was reported to have been the 
first to have framed laws (in writing) Others say that it was Menos the son of 
Zeus, in the time of Lynceus. He comes after Danaus, in the eleventh generation 
from Inachus and Moses; as we shall show a little further on. And Lycurgus, who 
lived many years after the taking of Troy, legislated for the Lacedaemonians a 
hundred and fifty years before the Olympiads. We have spoken before of the age 
of Solon. Draco (he was a legislator too) is discovered to have lived about the 
three hundred and ninth Olympiad. Antilochus, again, who wrote of the learned 
men from the age of Pythagoras to the death of Epicurus, which took place in the 
tenth day of the month Gamelion, makes up altogether three hundred and twelve 
years. Moreover, some say that Phanothea, the wife of Icarius, invented the 
heroic hexameter; others Themis, one of the Titanides. Didymus, however, in his 
work On the Pythagorean Philosophy, relates that Theano of Crotona was the first 
woman who cultivated philosophy and composed poems The Hellenic philosophy then, 
according to some, apprehended the truth accidentally, dimly, partially; as 
others will have it, was set a-going by the devil. Several suppose that certain 
powers, descending from heaven, inspired the whole of philosophy. But if the 
Hellenic philosophy comprehends not the whole extent of the truth, and besides 
is destitute of strength to perform the commandments of the Lord, yet it 
prepares the way for the truly royal teaching; training in some way or other, 
and moulding the character, and fitting him who believes in Providence for the 
reception of the truth. 
CHAPTER XVII -- ON THE SAYING OF THE SAVIOUR, "ALL THAT CAME BEFORE ME WERE 
THIEVES AND ROBBERS." 
But, say they, it is written, "All who were before the Lord's advent are 
thieves and robbers." All, then, who are in the Word (for it is these that were 
previous to the incarnation of the Word) are understood generally. But the 
prophets, being sent and inspired by the Lord, were not thieves, but servants. 
The Scripture accordingly says, "Wisdom sent her servants, inviting with loud 
proclamation to a goblet of wine." But philosophy, it is said, was not sent by 
the Lord, but came stolen, or given by a thief. It was then some power or angel 
that had learned something of the truth, but abode not in it, that inspired and 
taught these things, not without the Lord's knowledge, who knew before the 
constitution of each essence the issues of futurity, but without His 
prohibition. 
For the theft which reached men then, had some advantage; not that he who 
perpetrated the theft had utility in his eye, but Providence directed the issue 
of the audacious deed to utility. I know that many are perpetually assailing us 
with the allegation, that not to prevent a thing happening, is to be the cause 
of it happening. For they say, that the man who does not take precaution against 
a theft, or does not prevent it, is the cause of it: as he is the cause of the 
conflagration who has not quenched it at the beginning; and the master of the 
vessel who does not reef the sail, is the cause of the shipwreck. Certainly 
those who are the causes of such events are punished by the law. For to him who 
had power to prevent, attaches the blame of what happens. We say to them, that 
causation is seen in doing, working, acting; but the not preventing is in this 
respect inoperative. Further, causation attaches to activity; as in the case of 
the shipbuilder in relation to the origin of the vessel, and the builder in 
relation to the construction of the house. But that which does not prevent is 
separated from what takes place. Wherefore the effect will be accomplished; 
because that which could have prevented neither acts nor prevents. For what 
activity does that which prevents not exert? Now their assertion is reduced to 
absurdity, if they shall say that the cause of the wound is not the dart, but 
the shield, which did not prevent the dart from passing through; and if they 
blame not the thief, but the man who did not prevent the theft. Let them then 
say, that it was not Hector that burned the ships of the Greeks, but Achilles; 
because, having the power to prevent Hector, he did not prevent him; but out of 
anger (and it depended on himself to be angry or not) did not keep back the 
fire, and was a concurring cause. Now the devil, being possessed of free-will, 
was able both to repent and to steal; and it was he who was the author of the 
theft, not the Lord, who did not prevent him. But neither was the gift hurtful, 
so as to require that prevention should intervene. 
But if strict accuracy must be employed in dealing with them, let them know, 
that that which does not prevent what we assert to have taken place in the 
theft, is not a cause at all; but that what prevents is involved in the 
accusation of being a cause. For he that protects with a shield is the cause of 
him whom he protects not being wounded; preventing him, as he does, from being 
wounded. For the demon of Socrates was a cause, not by not preventing, but by 
exhorting, even if (strictly speaking) he did not exhort. And neither praises 
nor censures, neither rewards nor punishments, are right, when the soul has not 
the power of inclination and disinclination, but evil is involuntary. Whence he 
who prevents is a cause; while he who prevents not judges justly the soul's 
choice. So in no respect is God the author of evil. But since free choice and 
inclination originate sins, and a mistaken judgment sometimes prevails, from 
which, since it is ignorance and stupidity, we do not take pains to recede, 
punishments are rightly inflicted. For to take fever is involuntary; but when 
one takes fever through his own fault, from excess, we blame him. Inasmuch, 
then, as evil is involuntary, -- for no one prefers evil as evil; but induced by 
the pleasure that is in it, and imagining it good, considers it desirable; -- 
such being the case, to free ourselves from ignorance, and from evil and 
voluptuous choice, and above all, to withhold our assent from those delusive 
phantasies, depends on ourselves. The devil is called "thief and robber;" having 
mixed false prophets with the prophets, as tares with the wheat. "All, then, 
that came before the Lord, were thieves and robbers;" not absolutely all men, 
but all the false prophets, and all who were not properly sent by Him. For the 
false prophets possessed the prophetic name dishonestly, being prophets, but 
prophets of the liar. For the Lord says, "Ye are of your father the devil; and 
the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and 
abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a 
lie, he speaketh of his own; for he is a liar, and the father of it." 
But among the lies, the false prophets also told some true things. And in 
reality they prophesied "in an ecstasy," as the servants of the apostate. And 
the Shepherd, the angel of repentance, says to Hermas, of the false prophet: 
"For he speaks some truths. For the devil fills him with his own spirit, if 
perchance he may be able to cast down any one from what is right." All things, 
therefore, are dispensed from heaven for good, "that by the Church may be made 
known the manifold wisdom of God, according to the eternal foreknowledge, which 
He purposed in Christ." Nothing withstands God: nothing opposes Him: seeing He 
is Lord and omnipotent. 
Further, the counsels and activities of those who have rebelled, being 
partial, proceed from a bad disposition, as bodily diseases from a bad 
constitution, but are guided by universal Providence to a salutary issue, even 
though the cause be productive of disease. It is accordingly the greatest 
achievement of divine Providence, not to allow the evil, which has sprung from 
voluntary apostasy, to remain useless, and for no good, and not to become in all 
respects injurious. For it is the work of the divine wisdom, and excellence, and 
power, not alone to do good (for this is, so to speak, the nature of God, as it 
is of fire to warm and of light to illumine), but especially to ensure that what 
happens through the evils hatched by any, may come to a good and useful issue, 
and to use to advantage those things which appear to be evils, as also the 
testimony which accrues from temptation. 
There is then in philosophy, though stolen as the fire by Prometheus, a 
slender spark, capable of being fanned into flame, a trace of wisdom and an 
impulse from God. Well, be it so that "the thieves and robbers" are the 
philosophers among the Greeks, who from the Hebrew prophets before the coming of 
the Lord received fragments of the truth, not with full knowledge, and claimed 
these as their own teachings, disguising some points, treating others 
sophistically by their ingenuity, and discovering other things, for perchance 
they had "the spirit of perception." Aristotle, too, assented to Scripture, and 
declared sophistry to have stolen wisdom, as we intimated before. And the 
apostle says, "Which things we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom 
teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth." For of the prophets it is said, 
"We have all received of His fulness," that is, of Christ's. So that the 
prophets are not thieves. "And my doctrine is not Mine," saith the Lord, "but 
the Father's which sent me." And of those who steal He says: "But he that 
speaketh of himself, seeketh his own glory." Such are the Greeks, "lovers of 
their own selves, and boasters." Scripture, when it speaks of these as wise, 
does not brand those who are really wise, but those who are wise in appearance. 
CHAPTER XVIII -- HE ILLUSTRATES THE APOSTLE'S SAYING, "I WILL DESTROY THE 
WISDOM OF THE WISE." 
And of such it is said, "I will destroy the wisdom of the wise: I will bring 
to nothing the understanding of the prudent." The apostle accordingly adds, 
"Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world?" 
setting in contradistinction to the scribes, the disputers of this world, the 
philosophers of the Gentiles. "Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of the 
world?" which is equivalent to, showed it to be foolish, and not true, as they 
thought. And if you ask the cause of their seeming wisdom, he will say, "because 
of the blindness of their heart;" since "in the wisdom of God," that is, as 
proclaimed by the prophets, "the world knew not," in the wisdom "which spake by 
the prophets," "Him," that is, God, -- "it pleased God by the foolishness of 
preaching" -- what seemed to the Greeks foolishness -- "to save them that 
believe. For the Jews require signs," in order to faith; "and the Greeks seek 
after wisdom," plainly those reasonings styled "irresistible," and those others, 
namely, syllogisms. "But we preach Jesus Christ crucified; to the Jews a 
stumbling-block," because, though knowing prophecy, they did not believe the 
event: "to the Greeks, foolishness;" for those who in their own estimation are 
wise, consider it fabulous that the Son of God should speak by man and that God 
should have a Son, and especially that that Son should have suffered. Whence 
their preconceived idea inclines them to disbelieve. For the advent of the 
Saviour did not make people foolish, and hard of heart, and unbelieving, but 
made them understanding, amenable to persuasion, and believing. But those that 
would not believe, by separating themselves from the voluntary adherence of 
those who obeyed, were proved to be without understanding, unbelievers and 
fools. "But to them who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of 
God, and the wisdom of God." Should we not understand (as is better) the words 
rendered, "Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of the world?" negatively: "God 
hath not made foolish the wisdom of the world?" -- so that the cause of their 
hardness of heart may not appear to have proceeded from God, "making foolish the 
wisdom of the world." For on all accounts, being wise, they incur greater blame 
in not believing the proclamation. For the preference and choice of truth is 
voluntary. But that declaration, "I will destroy the wisdom of the wise," 
declares Him to have sent forth light, by bringing forth in opposition the 
despised and contemned barbarian philosophy; as the lamp, when shone upon by the 
sun, is said to be extinguished, on account of its not then exert ing the same 
power. All having been therefore called, those who are willing to obey have been 
named "called." For there is no unright-eousness with God. Those of either race 
who have believed, are "a peculiar people." And in the Acts of the Apostles you 
will find this, word for word, "Those then who received his word were baptized;" 
but those who would not obey kept themselves aloof. To these prophecy says, "If 
ye be willing and hear me, ye shall eat the good things of the land;" proving 
that choice or refusal depends on ourselves. The apostle designates the doctrine 
which is according to the Lord, "the wisdom of God," in order to show that the 
true philosophy has been communicated by the Son. Further, he, who has a show of 
wisdom, has certain exhortations enjoined on him by the apostle: "That ye put on 
the new man, which after God is renewed in righteousness and true holiness. 
Wherefore, putting away lying, speak every man truth. Neither give place to the 
devil. Let him that stole, steal no more; but rather let him labour, working 
that which is good" (and to work is to labour in seeking the truth; for it is 
accompanied with rational well-doing), "that ye may have to give to him that has 
need," both of worldly wealth and of divine wisdom. For he wishes both that the 
word be taught, and that the money be put into the bank, accurately tested, to 
accumulate interest. Whence he adds, "Let no corrupt communication proceed out 
of your mouth," -- that is "corrupt communication" which proceeds out of 
conceit, -- "but that which is good for the use of edifying, that it may 
minister grace to the hearers." And the word of the good God must needs be good. 
And how is it possible that he who saves shall not be good? 
CHAPTER XIX -- THAT THE PHILOSOPHERS HAVE ATTAINED TO SOME PORTION OF TRUTH. 
Since, then, the Greeks are testified to have laid down some true opinions, 
we may from this point take a glance at the testimonies. Paul, in the Acts of 
the Apostles, is recorded to have said to the Areopagites, "I perceive that ye 
are more than ordinarily religious. For as I passed by, and beheld your 
devotions, I found an altar with the inscription, To The Unknown God. Whom 
therefore ye ignorantly worship, Him declare I unto you. God, that made the 
world and all things therein, seeing that He is Lord of heaven and earth, 
dwelleth not in temples made with hands; neither is worshipped with men's hands, 
as though He needed anything, seeing He giveth to all life, and breath, and all 
things; and hath made of one blood all nations of men to dwell on all the face 
of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of 
their habitation; that they should seek God, if haply they might feel after Him, 
and find Him; though He be not far from every one of us: for in Him we live, and 
move, and have our being; as certain also of your own poets have said, For we 
also are His offspring." Whence it is evident that the apostle, by availing 
himself of poetical examples from the Phenomena of Aratus, approves of what had 
been well spoken by the Greeks; and intimates that, by the unknown God, God the 
Creator was in a roundabout way worshipped by the Greeks; but that it was 
necessary by positive knowledge to apprehend and learn Him by the Son. 
"Wherefore, then, I send thee to the Gentiles," it is said, "to open their eyes, 
and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God; 
that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them that are 
sanctified by faith which is in Me." Such, then, are the eyes of the blind which 
are opened. The knowledge of the Father by the Son is the comprehension of the 
"Greek circumlocution;" and to turn from the power of Satan is to change from 
sin, through which bondage was produced. We do not, indeed, receive absolutely 
all philosophy, but that of which Socrates speaks in Plato. "For there are (as 
they say) in the mysteries many bearers of the thyrsus, but few bacchanals;" 
meaning, "that many are called, but few chosen." He accordingly plainly adds: 
"These, in my opinion, are none else than those who have philosophized right; to 
belong to whose number, I myself have left nothing undone in life, as far as I 
could, but have endeavoured in every way. Whether we have endeavoured rightly 
and achieved aught, we shall know when we have gone there, if God will, a little 
afterwards." Does he not then seem to declare from the Hebrew Scriptures the 
righteous man's hope, through faith, after death? And in Demodocus (if that is 
really the work of Plato): "And do not imagine that I call it philosophizing to 
spend life pottering about the arts, or learning many things, but something 
different; since I, at least, would consider this a disgrace." For he knew, I 
reckon, "that the knowledge of many things does not educate the mind," according 
to Heraclitus. And in the fifth book of the Republic. he says, "' Shall we then 
call all these, and the others which study such things, and those who apply 
themselves to the meaner arts, philosophers?' 'By no means,' I said, 'but like 
philosophers.' 'And whom,' said he, 'do you call true?' 'Those,' said I,' who 
delight in the contemplation of truth. For philosophy is not in geometry, with 
its postulates and hypotheses; nor in music, which is conjectural; nor in 
astronomy, crammed full of physical, fluid, and probable causes. But the 
knowledge of the good and truth itself are requisite, -- what is good being one 
thing, and the ways to the good another.'" So that he does not allow that the 
curriculum of training suffices for the good, but co-operates in rousing and 
training the soul to intellectual objects. Whether, then, they say that the 
Greeks gave forth some utterances of the true philosophy by accident, it is the 
accident of a divine administration (for no one will, for the sake of the 
present argument with us, deify chance); or by good fortune, good fortune is not 
unforeseen. Or were one, on the other hand, to say that the Greeks possessed a 
natural conception of these things, we know the one Creator of nature; just as 
we also call righteousness natural; or that they had a common intellect, let us 
reflect who is its father, and what righteousness is in the mental economy. 
For were one to name "prediction," and assign as its cause "combined 
utterance," he specifies forms of prophecy. Further, others will have it that 
some truths were uttered by the philosophers, in appearance. The divine apostle 
writes accordingly respecting us: "For now we see as through a glass;" knowing 
ourselves in it by reflection, and simul-taneously contemplating, as we can, the 
efficient cause, from that, which, in us, is divine. For it is said, "Having 
seen thy brother, thou hast seen thy God:" methinks that now the Saviour God is 
declared to us. But after the laying aside of the flesh, "face to face," -- then 
definitely and comprehensively, when the heart becomes pure. And by reflection 
and direct vision, those among the Greeks who have philosophized accurately, see 
God. For such, through our weakness, are our true views, as images are seen in 
the water, and as we see things through pellucid and transparent bodies. 
Excellently therefore Solomon says: "He who soweth righteousness, worketh 
faith." "And there are those who, sewing their own, make increase." And again: 
"Take care of the verdure on the plain, and thou shalt cut grass and gather ripe 
hay, that thou mayest have sheep for clothing." You see how care must be taken 
for external clothing and for keeping. "And thou shalt intelligently know the 
souls of thy flock." "For when the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by 
nature the things contained in the law, these, having not the law, are a law 
unto themselves; uncircumcision observing the precepts of the law," according to 
the apostle, both before the law and before the advent. As if making comparison 
of those addicted to philosophy with those called heretics, the Word most 
clearly says: "Better is a friend that is near, than a brother that dwelleth 
afar off." "And he who relies on falsehoods, feeds on the winds, and pursues 
winged birds." I do not think that philosophy directly declares the Word, 
although in many instances philosophy attempts and persuasively teaches us 
probable arguments; but it assails the sects. Accordingly it is added: "For he 
hath forsaken the ways of his own vineyard, and wandered in the tracks of his 
own husbandry." Such are the sects which deserted the primitive Church. Now he 
who has fallen into heresy passes through an arid wilderness, abandoning the 
only true God, destitute of God, seeking waterless water, reaching an 
uninhabited and thirsty land, collecting sterility with his hands. And those 
destitute of prudence, that is, those involved in heresies, "I enjoin," remarks 
Wisdom, saying, "Touch sweetly stolen bread and the sweet water of theft;" the 
Scripture manifestly applying the terms bread and water to nothing else but to 
those heresies, which employ bread and water in the oblation, not according to 
the canon of the Church. For there are those who celebrate the Eucharist with 
mere water. "But begone, stay not in her place:" dace is the synagogue, not the 
Church. He calls it by the equivocal name, place. Then He subjoins: "For so 
shalt thou pass through the water of another;" reckoning heretical baptism not 
proper and true water. "And thou shalt pass over another's river," that rushes 
along and sweeps down to the sea; into which he is cast who, having diverged 
from the stability which is according to truth, rushes back into the heathenish 
and tumultous waves of life. 
CHAPTER XX -- IN WHAT RESPECT PHILOSOPHY CONTRIBUTES TO THE COMPREHENSION OF 
DIVINE TRUTH. 
As many men drawing down the ship, cannot be called many causes, but one 
cause consisting of many; -- for each individual by himself is not the cause of 
the ship being drawn, but along with the rest; -- so also philosophy, being the 
search for truth, contributes to the comprehension of truth; not as being the 
cause of comprehension, but a cause along with other things, and co-operator; 
perhaps also a joint cause. And as the several virtues are causes of the 
happiness of one individual; and as both the sun, and the fire, and the bath, 
and clothing are of one getting warm: so while truth is one, many things 
contribute to its investigation. But its discovery is by the Son. If then we 
consider, virtue is, in power, one. But it is the case, that when exhibited in 
some things, it is called prudence, in others temperance, and in others 
manliness or righteousness. By the same analogy, while truth is one, in geometry 
there is the truth of geometry; in music, that of music; and in the right 
philosophy, there will be Hellenic truth. But that is the only authentic truth, 
unassailable, in which we are instructed by the Son of God. In the same way we 
say, that the drachma being one and the same, when given to the shipmaster, is 
called the fare; to the tax-gatherer, tax; to the landlord, rent; to the 
teacher, fees; to the seller, an earnest. And each, whether it be virtue or 
truth, called by the same name, is the cause of its own peculiar effect alone; 
and from the blending of them arises a happy life. For we are not made happy by 
names alone, when we say that a good life is happiness, and that the man who is 
adorned in his soul with virtue is happy. But if philosophy contributes remotely 
to the discovery of truth, by reaching, by diverse essays, after the knowledge 
which touches close on the truth, the knowledge possessed by us, it aids him who 
aims at grasping it, in accordance with the Word, to apprehend knowledge. But 
the Hellenic truth is distinct from that held by us (although it has got the 
same name), both in respect of extent of knowledge, certainly of demonstration, 
divine power, and the like. For we are taught of God, being instructed in the 
truly "sacred letters" by the Son of God. Whence those, to whom we refer, 
influence souls not in the way we do, but by different teaching. And if, for the 
sake of those who are fond of fault-finding, we must draw a distinction, by 
saying that philosophy is a concurrent and cooperating cause of true 
apprehension, being the search for truth, then we shall avow it to be a 
preparatory training for the enlightened man (tou gnwstikou); not 
assigning as the cause that which is but the joint-cause; nor as the upholding 
cause, what is merely co-operative; nor giving to philosophy the place of a sine 
qua non. Since almost all of us, without training in arts and sciences, and the 
Hellenic philosophy, and some even without learning at all, through the 
influence of a philosophy divine and barbarous, and by power, have through faith 
received the word concerning God, trained by self-operating wisdom. But that 
which acts in conjunction with something else, being of itself incapable of 
operating by itself, we describe as co-operating and concausing, and say that it 
becomes a cause only in virtue of its being a joint-cause, and receives the name 
of cause only in respect of its concurring with something else, but that it 
cannot by itself produce the right effect. 
Although at one time philosophy justified the Greeks, not conducting them to 
that entire righteousness to which it is ascertained to cooperate, as the first 
and second flight of steps help you in your ascent to the upper room, and the 
grammarian helps the philosopher. Not as if by its abstraction, the perfect Word 
would be rendered incomplete, or truth perish; since also sight, and hearing, 
and the voice contribute to truth, but it is the mind which is the appropriate 
faculty for knowing it. But of those things which co-operate, some contribute a 
greater amount of power; some, a less. Perspicuity accordingly aids in the 
communication of truth, and logic in preventing us from falling under the 
heresies by which we are assailed. But the teaching, which is according to the 
Saviour, is complete in itself and without defect, being "the power and wisdom 
of God;" and the Hellenic philosophy does not, by its approach, make the truth 
more powerful; but rendering powerless the assault of sophistry against it, and 
frustrating the treacherous plots laid against the truth, is said to be the 
proper "fence and wall of the vineyard." And the truth which is according to 
faith is as necessary for life as bread; while the preparatory discipline is 
like sauce and sweetmeats. "At the end of the dinner, the dessert is pleasant," 
according to the Theban Pindar. And the Scripture has expressly said, "The 
innocent will become wiser by understanding, and the wise will receive 
knowledge." "And he that speaketh of himself," saith the Lord, "seeketh his own 
glory; but He that seeketh His glory that sent Him is true, and there is no 
unrighteousness in Him." On the other hand, therefore, he who appropriates what 
belongs to the barbarians, and vaunts it is his own, does wrong, increasing his 
own glory, and falsifying the truth. It is such an one that is by Scripture 
called a "thief." It is therefore said, "Son, be not a liar; for falsehood leads 
to theft." 
Nevertheless the thief possesses really, what he has possessed himself of 
dishonestly, whether it be gold, or silver, or speech, or dogma. The ideas, 
then, which they have stolen, and which are partially true, they know by 
conjecture and necessary logical deduction: on becoming disciples, therefore, 
they will know them with intelligent apprehension. 
CHAPTER XXI -- THE JEWISH INSTITUTIONS AND LAWS OF FAR HIGHER ANTIQUITY THAN 
THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE GREEKS. 
On the plagiarizing of the dogmas of the philosophers from the Hebrews, we 
shall treat a little afterwards. But first, as due order demands, we must now 
speak of the epoch of Moses, by which the philosophy of the Hebrews will be 
demonstrated beyond all contradiction to be the most ancient of all wisdom. This 
has been discussed with accuracy by Tatian in his book To the Greeks, and by 
Cassian in the first book of his Exegetics. Nevertheless our commentary demands 
that we too should run over what has been said on the point. Apion, then, the 
grammarian, surnamed Pleistonices, in the fourth book of The Egyptian Histories, 
although of so hostile a disposition towards the Hebrews, being by race an 
Egyptian, as to compose a work against the Jews, when referring to Amosis king 
of the Egyptians, and his exploits, adduces, as a witness, Ptolemy of Mendes. 
And his remarks are to the following effect: Amosis, who lived in the time of 
the Argive Inachus, overthrew Athyria, as Ptolemy of Mendes relates in his 
Chronology. Now this Ptolemy was a priest; and setting forth the deeds of the 
Egyptian kings in three entire books, he says, that the exodus of the Jews from 
Egypt, under the conduct of Moses, took place while Amosis was king of Egypt. 
Whence it is seen that Moses flourished in the time of Inachus. And of the 
Hellenic states, the most ancient is the Argolic, I mean that which took its 
rise from Inachus, as Dionysius of Halicarnassus teaches in his Times. And 
younger by forty generations than it was Attica, founded by Cecrops, who was an 
aboriginal of double race, as Tatian expressly says; and Arcadia, founded by 
Pelasgus, younger too by nine generations; and he, too, is said to have been an 
aboriginal. And more recent than this last by fifty-two generations, was 
Pthiotis, rounded by Deucalion. 
And from the time of Inachus to the Trojan war twenty generations or more are 
reckoned; let us say, four hundred years and more. And if Ctesias says that the 
Assyrian power is many years older than the Greek, the exodus of Moses from 
Egypt will appear to have taken place in the forty-second year of the Assyrian 
empire, in the thirty-second year of the reign of Belochus, in the time of 
Amosis the Egyptian, and of Inachus the Argive. And in Greece, in the time of 
Phoroneus, who succeeded Inachus, the flood of Ogyges occurred; and monarchy 
subsisted in Sicyon first in the person of gialeus, then of Europs, then of 
Telches; in Crete, in the person of Cres. For Acusilaus says that Phoroneus was 
the first man. Whence, too, the author of Phoronis said that he was "the father 
of mortal men." Thence Plato in the Timaeus, following Acusilaus, writes: "And 
wishing to draw them out into a discussion respecting antiquities, he said that 
he ventured to speak of the most remote antiquities of this city respecting 
Phoroneus, called the first man, and Niobe, and what happened after the deluge." 
And in the time of Phorbus lived Actaeus, from whom is derived Actaia, Attica; 
and in the time of Triopas lived Prometheus, and Atlas, and Epimetheus, and 
Cecrops of double race, and Ino. 
And in the time of Crotopus occurred the burning of Phaethon, and the deluge 
s of Deucalion; and in the time of Sthenelus, the reign of Amphictyon, and the 
arrival of Danaus in the Peloponnesus; and trader Dardanus happened the building 
of Dardania, whom, says Homer, "First cloud-compelling Zeus begat,"- and the 
transmigration from Crete into Phoenicia. And in the time of Lynceus took place 
the abduction of Proserpine, and the dedication of the sacred enclosure in 
Eleusis, and the husbandry of Triptolemus, and the arrival of Cadmus in Thebes, 
and the reign of Minos. And in the time of Proetus the war of Eumolpus with the 
Athenians took place; and in the time of Acrisius, the removal of Pelops from 
Phrygia, the arrival of Ion at Athens; and the second Cecrops appeared, and the 
exploits of Perseus and Dionysus took place, and Orpheus and Musaeus lived. And 
in the eighteenth year of the reign of Agamemnon, Troy was taken, in the first 
year of the reign of Demophon the son of Theseus at Athens, on the twelfth day 
of the month Thargelion, as Dionysius the Argive says; but gias and Dercylus, 
in the third book, say that it was on the eighth day of the last division of the 
month Panemus; Hellanicus says that it was on the twelfth of the month 
Thargelion; and some of the authors of the Attica say that it was on the eighth 
of the last division of the month in the last year of Menestheus, at full moon. 
"It was midnight," says the author of the Little Iliad, "And the moon shone 
clear." Others say, it took place on the same day of Scirophorion. But Theseus, 
the rival of Hercules, is older by a generation than the Trojan war. Accordingly 
Tlepolemus, a son of Hercules, is mentioned by Homer, as having served at Troy. 
Moses, then, is shown to have preceded the deification of Dionysus six 
hundred and four years, if he was deified in the thirty-second year of the reign 
of Perseus, as Apollodorus says in his Chronology. From Bacchus to Hercules and 
the chiefs that sailed with Jason in the ship Argo, are comprised sixty-three 
years. sculapius and the Dioscuri sailed with them, as Apollonius Rhodius 
testifies in his Argonautics. And from the reign of Hercules, in Argos, to the 
deification of Hercules and of sculapius, are comprised thirty-eight years, 
according to Apollodorus the chronologist; from this to the deification of 
Castor and Pollux, fifty-three years. And at this time Troy was taken. And if we 
may believe the poet Hesiod, let us hear him: "Then to Jove, Maia, Atlas' 
daughter, bore renowned Hermes, Herald of the immortals, having ascended the 
sacred couch. 
And Semele, the daughter of Cadmus, too, bore an illustrious son, Dionysus, 
the joy-inspiring, when she mingled with him in love." Cadmus, the father of 
Semele, came to Thebes in the time of Lynceus, and was the inventor of the Greek 
letters. Triopas was a contemporary of Isis, in the seventh generation from 
Inachus. And Isis, who is the same as Io, is so called, it is said, from her 
going (ienai) roaming over the whole earth. Her, Istrus, in his work on 
the migration of the Egyptians, calls the daughter of Prometheus. Prometheus 
lived in the time of Triopas, in the seventh generation after Moses. So that 
Moses appears to have flourished even before the birth of men, according to the 
chronology of the Greeks. Leon, who treated of the Egyptian divinities, says 
that Isis by the Greeks was called Ceres, who lived in the time of Lynceus, in 
the eleventh generation after Moses. And Apis the king of Argos built Memphis, 
as Aristippus says in the first book of the Arcadica. And Aristeas the Argive 
says that he was named Serapis, and that it is he that the Egyptians worship. 
And Nymphodorus of Amphipolis, in the third book of the Institutions of Asia, 
says that the bull Apis, dead and laid in a coffin (soros), was deposited 
in the temple of the god (daimonos) there worshipped, and thence was 
called Soroapis, and afterwards Serapis by the custom of the natives. And Apis 
is third after Inachus. Further, Latona lived in the time of Tityus. "For he 
dragged Latona, the radiant consort of Zeus." Now Tityus was contemporary with 
Tantalus. Rightly, therefor, the Boeotian Pindar writes, "And in time was Apollo 
born;" and no wonder when he is found along with Hercules, serving Admetus "for 
a long year." Zethus and Amphion, the inventors of music, lived about the age of 
Cadmus. And should one assert that Phemonoe was the first who sang oracles in 
verse to Acrisius, let him know that twenty-seven years after Phemonoe, lived 
Orpheus, and Musaeus, and Linus the teacher of Hercules. And Homer and Hesiod 
are much more recent than the Trojan war; and after them the legislators among 
the Greeks are far more recent, Lycurgus and Solon, and the seven wise men, and 
Pherecydes of Syros, and Pythagoras the great, who lived later, about the 
Olympiads, as we have shown. We have also demonstrated Moses to be more ancient, 
not only than those called poets and wise men among the Greeks, but than the 
most of their deities. Nor he alone, but the Sibyl also is more ancient than 
Orpheus. For it is said, that respecting her appellation and her oracular 
utterances there are several accounts; that being a Phrygian, she was called 
Artemis; and that on her arrival at Delphi, she sang- "O Delphians, ministers of 
far-darting Apollo, I come to declare the mind of gis-bearing Zeus, Enraged as 
I am at my own brother Apollo." 
There is another also, an Erythraean, called Herophile. These are mentioned 
by Heraclides of Pontus in his work On Oracles. I pass over the Egyptian Sibyl, 
and the Italian, who inhabited the Carmentale in Rome, whose son was Evander, 
who built the temple of Pan in Rome, called the Lupercal. 
It is worth our while, having reached this point, to examine the dates of the 
other prophets among the Hebrews who succeeded Moses. After the close of Moses's 
life, Joshua succeeded to the leadership of the people, and he, after warring 
for sixty-five years, rested in the good land other five-and-twenty. As the book 
of Joshua relates, the above mentioned man was the successor of Moses 
twenty-seven years. Then the Hebrews having sinned, were delivered to Chusachar 
king of Mesopotamia for eight years, as the book of Judges mentions. But having 
afterwards besought the Lord, they receive for leader Gothoniel, the younger 
brother of Caleb, of the tribe of Judah, who, having slain the king of 
Mesopotamia, ruled over the people forty years in succession. And having again 
sinned, they were delivered into the hands of glom king of the Moabites for 
eighteen years. But on their repentance, Aod, a man who had equal use of both 
hands, of the tribe of Ephraim, was their leader.for eighty years. It was he 
that despatched glom. On the death of Aod, and on their sinning again, they 
were delivered into the hand of Jabim king of Canaan twenty years. After him 
Deborah the wife of Lapidoth, of the tribe of Ephraim, prophesied; and Ozias the 
son of Rhiesu was high priest. At her instance Barak the son of Bener, of the 
tribe of Naphtali, commanding the army, having joined battle with Sisera, 
Jabim's commander-in-chief, conquered him. And after that Deborah ruled, judging 
the people forty years. On her death, the people having again sinned, were 
delivered into the hands of the Midianites seven years. After these events, 
Gideon, of the tribe of Manasseh, the son of Joas, having fought with his three 
hundred men, and killed a hundred and twenty thousand, ruled forty years; after 
whom the son of Ahimelech, three years. He was succeeded by Boleas, the son of 
Bedan, the son of Charran, of the tribe of Ephraim, who ruled twenty-three 
years. After whom, the people having sinned again, were delivered to the 
Ammonites eighteen years; and on their repentance were commanded by Jephtha the 
Gileadite, of the tribe of Manasseh; and he ruled six years. After whom, 
Abatthan of Bethlehem, of the tribe of Juda, ruled seven years. Then Ebron the 
Zebulonite, eight years. Then Eglom of Ephraim, eight years. Some add to the 
seven years of Abatthan the eight of Ebrom. And after him, the people having 
again transgressed, came under the power of the foreigners, the Philistines, for 
forty years. But on their returning [to God], they were led by Samson, of the 
tribe of Dan, who conquered the foreigners in battle. He ruled twenty years. And 
after him, there being no governor, Eli the priest judged the people for forty 
years. He was succeeded by Samuel the prophet; contemporaneously with whom Saul 
reigned, who held sway for twenty-seven years. He anointed David. Samuel died 
two years before Saul, while Abimelech was high priest. He anointed Saul as 
king, who was the first that bore regal sway over Israel after the judges; the 
whole duration of whom, down to Saul, was four hundred and sixty-three years and 
seven months. 
Then in the first book of Kings there are twenty years of Saul, during which 
he reigned after he was renovated. And after the death of Saul, David the son of 
Jesse, of the tribe of Judah, reigned next in Hebron, forty years, as is 
contained in the second book of Kings. And Abiathar the son of Abimelech, of the 
kindred of Eli, was high priest. In his time Gad and Nathan prophesied. From 
Joshua the son of Nun, then, till David received the kingdom, there intervene, 
according to some, four hundred and fifty years. But, as the chronology set 
forth shows, five hundred and twenty-three years and seven months are 
comprehended till the death of David. 
And after this Solomon the son of David reigned forty years. Under him Nathan 
continued to prophesy, who also exhorted him respecting the building of the 
temple. Achias of Shilo also prophesied. And both the kings, David and Solomon, 
were prophets. And Sadoc the high priest was the first who ministered in the 
temple which Solomon built, being the eighth from Aaron, the first high priest. 
From Moses, then, to the age of Solomon, as some say, are five hundred and 
ninety-five years, and as others, five hundred and seventy-six. 
And if you count, along with the four hundred and fifty years from Joshua to 
David, the forty years of the rule of Moses, and the other eighty years of 
Moses's life previous to the exodus of the Hebrews from Egypt, you will make up 
the sum in all of six hundred and ten years. But our chronology will run more 
correctly, if to the five hundred and twenty-three years and seven months till 
the death of David, you add the hundred and twenty years of Moses and the forty 
years of Solomon. For you will make up in all, down to the death of Solomon, six 
hundred and eighty-three years and seven months. 
Hiram gave his daughter to Solomon about the time of the arrival of Menelaus 
in Phoenicia, after the capture of Troy, as is said by Menan-der of Pergamus, 
and Laetus in The Phoenicia. And after Solomon, Roboam his son reigned for 
seventeen years; and Abimelech the son of Sadoc was high priest. In his reign, 
the kingdom being divided, Jeroboam, of the tribe of Ephraim, the servant of 
Solomon, reigned in Samaria; and Achias the Shilonite continued to prophesy; 
also Samaeas the son of Amame, and he who came from Judah to Jeroboam, and 
prophesied against the altar. After him his son Abijam, twenty-three years; and 
likewise his son Asaman. The last, in his old age, was diseased in his feet; and 
in his reign prophesied Jehu the son of Ananias. 
After him Jehosaphat his son reigned twenty-five years. In his reign 
prophesied Elias the Thesbite, and Michaeas the son of Jebla, and Abdias the son 
of Ananias. And in the time of Michaeas there was also the false prophet 
Zedekias, the son of Chonaan. These were followed by the reign of Joram the son 
of Jehosaphat, for eight years; during whose time prophesied Elias; and after 
Elias, Elisaeus the son of Saphat. In his reign the people in Samaria ate doves' 
dung and their own children. The period of Jehosaphat extends from the close of 
the third book of Kings to the fourth. And in the reign of Joram, Elias was 
translated, and Elisaeus the son of Saphat commenced prophesying, and prophesied 
for six years, being forty years old. 
Then Ochozias reigned a year. In his time Elisaeus continued to prophesy, and 
along with him Adadonaeus. After him the mother of Ozias, Gotholia, reigned 
eight years, having slain the children of her brother. For she was of the family 
of Ahab. But the sister of Ozias, Josabaea, stole Joas the son of Ozias, and 
invested him afterwards with the kingdom. And in the time of this Gotholia, 
Elisaeus was still prophesying. And after her reigned, as I said before, Joash, 
rescued by Josabaea the wife of Jodae the high priest, and lived in all forty 
years. 
There are comprised, then, from Solomon to the death of Elisaeus the prophet, 
as some say, one hundred and five years; according to others, one hundred and 
two; and, as the chronology before us shows, from the reign of Solomon an 
hundred and eighty-one. 
Now from the Trojan war to the birth of Homer, according to Philochorus, a 
hundred and eighty years elapsed; and he was posterior to the Ionic migration. 
But Aristarchus, in the Archilochian Memoirs, says that he lived during the 
Ionic migration, which took place a hundred and twenty years after the siege of 
Troy. But Apollodorus alleges it was an hundred and twenty years after the Ionic 
migration, while Agesilaus son of Doryssaeus was king of the Lacedaemonians: so 
that he brings Lycurgus the legislator, while still a young man, near him. 
Euthymenes, in the Chronicles, says that he flourished contemporaneously with 
Hesiod, in the time of Acastus, and was born in Chios about the four hundredth 
year after the capture of Troy. And Archimachus, in the third book of his 
Euboean History), is of this opinion. So that both he and Hesiod were later than 
Elisaeus, the prophet. And if you choose to follow the grammarian Crates, and 
say that Homer was born about the time of the expedition of the Heraclidae, 
eighty years after the taking of Troy, he will be found to be later again than 
Solomon, in whose days occurred the arrival of Menelaus in Phenicia, as was said 
above. Eratosthenes says that Homer's age was two hundred years after the 
capture of Troy. Further, Theopompus, in the forty-third book of the.Philippics, 
relates that Homer was born five hundred years after the war at Troy. And 
Euphorion, in his book about the Aleuades, maintains that he was born in the 
time of Gyges, who began to reign in the eighteenth Olympiad, who, also he says, 
was the first that was called tyrant turannos. Sosibius Lacon, again, in 
his Record of Dates, brings Homer down to the eighth year of the reign of 
Charillus the son of Polydectus. Charillus reigned for sixty-four years, after 
whom the son of Nicander reigned thirty-nine years. In his thirty-fourth year it 
is said that the first Olympiad was instituted; so that Homer was ninety years 
before the introduction of the Olympic games. 
After Joas, Amasias his son reigned as his successor thirty-nine years. He in 
like manner was succeeded by his son Ozias, who reigned for fifty-two years, and 
died a leper. And in his time prophesied Amos, and Isaiah his son, and Hosea the 
son of Beeri, and Jonas the son of Amathi, who was of Gethchober, who preached 
to the Ninevites, and passed through the whale's belly. 
Then Jonathan the son of Ozias reigned for sixteen years. In his time Esaias 
still prophesied, and Hosea, and Michaeas the Morasthite, and Joel the son of 
Bethuel. 
Next in succession was his son Ahaz, who reigned for sixteen years. In his 
time, in the fifteenth year, Israel was carried away to Babylon. And Salmanasar 
the king of the Assyrians carried away the people of Samaria into the country of 
the Medes and to Babylon. 
Again Ahaz was succeeded by Osee, who reigned for eight years. Then followed 
Hezekiah, for twenty-nine years. For his sanctity, when he had approached his 
end, God, by Isaiah, allowed him to live for other fifteen years, giving as a 
sign the going back of the sun. Up to his times Esaias, Hosea, and Micah 
continued prophesying. 
And these are said to have lived after the age of Lycurgus, the legislator of 
the Lacedaemonians. For Dieuchidas, in the fourth book of the Megarics, places 
the era of Lycurgus about the two hundred and ninetieth year after the capture 
of Troy. 
After Hezekiah, his son Manasses reigned for fifty-five years. Then his son 
Amos for two years. After him reigned his son Josias, distinguished for his 
observance of the law, for thirty-one years. He "laid the carcases of men upon 
the carcases of the idols," as is written in the book of Leviticus. In his 
reign, in the eighteenth year, the passover was celebrated, not having been kept 
from the days of Samuel in the intervening period. Then Chelkias the priest, the 
father of the prophet Jeremiah, having fallen in with the book of the law, that 
had been laid up in the temple, read it and died. And in his days Olda 
prohesied, and Sophonias, and Jeremiah. And in the days of Jeremiah was Ananias 
the son of Azor, the false prophet. He having disobeyed Jeremiah the prophet, 
was slain by Pharaoh Necho king of Egypt at the river Euphrates, having 
encountered the latter, who was marching on the Assyrians. 
Josiah was succeeded by Jechoniah, called also Joachas, his son, who reigned 
three months and ten days. Necho king of Egypt bound him and led him to Egypt, 
after making his brother Joachim king in his stead, who continued his tributary 
for eleven years. After him his namesake Joakim reigned for three months. Then 
Zedekiah reigned for eleven years; and up to his time Jeremiah continued to 
prophesy. Along with him Ezekiel the son of Buzi, and Urias the son of Samaeus, 
and Ambacum prophesied. Here end the Hebrew kings. 
There are then from the birth of Moses till this captivity nine hundred and 
seventy-two years; but according to strict chronological accuracy, one thousand 
and eighty-five, six months, ten days. From the reign of David to the captivity 
by the Chaldeans, four hundred and fifty-two years and six months; but as the 
accuracy we have observed in reference to dates makes out, four hundred and 
eighty-two and six months ten days. 
And in the twelfth year of the reign of Zedekiah, forty years before the 
supremacy of the Persians, Nebuchodonosor made war against the Phoenicians and 
the Jews, as Berosus asserts in his Chaldaean Histories. And Joabas, writing 
about the Assyrians, acknowledges that he had received the history from Berosus, 
and testifies to his accuracy. Nebuchodonosor, therefore, having put out the 
eyes of Zedekiah, took him away to Babylon, and transported the whole people 
(the captivity lasted seventy years), with the exception of a few who fled to 
Egypt. 
Jeremiah and Ambacum were still prophesying in the time of Zedekiah. In the 
fifth year of his reign Ezekiel prophesied at Babylon; after him Nahum, then 
Daniel. After him, again, Haggai and Zechariah prophesied in the time of Darius 
the First for two years; and then the angel among the twelve. After Haggai and 
Zechariah, Nehemiah, the chief cup-bearer of Artaxerxes, the son of Acheli the 
Israelite, built the city of Jerusalem and restored the temple. During the 
captivity lived Esther and Mordecai, whose book is still extant, as also that of 
the Maccabees. During this captivity Mishael, Ananias, and Azarias, refusing to 
worship the image, and being thrown into a furnace of fire, were saved by the 
appearance of an angel. At that time, on account of the serpent, Daniel was 
thrown into the den of lions; but being preserved through the providence of God 
by Ambacub, he is restored on the seventh day. At this period, too, occurred the 
sign of Jona; and Tobias, through the assistance of the angel Raphael, married 
Sarah, the demon having killed her seven first suitors; and after the marriage 
of Tobias, his father Tobit recovered his sight. At that time Zorobabel, having 
by his wisdom overcome his opponents, and obtained leave from Darius for the 
rebuilding of Jerusalem, returned with Esdras to his native land; and by him the 
redemption of the people and the revisal and restoration of the inspired oracles 
were effected; and the passover of deliverance celebrated, and marriage with 
aliens dissolved. 
Cyrus had, by proclamation, previously enjoined the restoration of the 
Hebrews. And his promise being accomplished in the time of Darius, the feast of 
the dedication was held, as also the feast of tabernacles. 
There were in all, taking in the duration of the captivity down to the 
restoration of the people, from the birth of Moses, one thousand one hundred and 
fifty-five years, six months, and ten days; and from the reign of David, 
according to some, four hundred and fifty-two; more correctly, five hundred and 
seventy-two years, six months, and ten days. 
From the captivity at Babylon, which took place in the time of Jeremiah the 
prophet, was fulfilled what was spoken by Daniel the prophet as follows: 
"Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people, and upon thy holy city, to finish 
the transgression, and to seal sins, and to wipe out and make reconciliation for 
iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal the vision and 
the prophet, and to anoint the Holy of Holies. Know therefore, and understand, 
that from the going forth of the word commanding an answer to be given, and 
Jerusalem to be built, to Christ the Prince, are seven weeks and sixty-two 
weeks; and the street shall be again built, and the wall; and the times shall be 
expended. And after the sixty-two weeks the anointing shall be overthrown, and 
judgment shall not be in him; and he shall destroy the city and the sanctuary 
along with the coming Prince. And they shall be destroyed in a flood, and to the 
end of the war shall be cut off by: desolations. And he shall confirm the 
covenant with many for one week; and in the middle of the week the sacrifice and 
oblation shall be taken away; and in the holy place shall be the abomination of 
desolations, and until the consummation of time shall the consummation be 
assigned for desolation. And in the midst of the week shall he make the incense 
of sacrifice cease, and of the wing of destruction, even till the consummation, 
like the destruction of the oblation." That the temple accordingly was l built 
in seven weeks, is evident; for it is written in Esdras. And thus Christ became 
King of the Jews, reigning in Jerusalem in the fulfilment of the seven weeks. 
And in the sixty and two weeks the whole of Judaea was quiet, and without wars. 
And Christ our Lord, "the Holy of Holies," having come and fulfilled the vision 
and the prophecy, was anointed in His flesh by the Holy Spirit of His Father. 
In those "sixty and two weeks," as the prophet said, and "in the one week," 
was He Lord. The half of the week Nero held sway, and in the holy city Jerusalem 
placed the abomination; and in the half of the week he was taken away, and Otho, 
and Galba, and Vitellius. And Vespasian rose to the supreme power, and destroyed 
Jerusalem, and desolated the holy place. And that such are the facts of the 
case, is clear to him that is able to understand, as the prophet said. 
On the completion, then, of the eleventh year, in the beginning of the 
following, in the reign of Joachim, occurred the carrying away captive to 
Babylon by Nabuchodonosor the king, in the seventh year of his reign over the 
Assyrians, in the second year of the reign of Vaphres over the Egyptians, in the 
archonship of Philip at Athens, in the first year of the forty-eighth Olympiad. 
The captivity lasted for seventy years, and ended in the second year of Darius 
Hystaspes, who had become king of the Persians, Assyrians, and Egyptians; in 
whose reign, as I said above, Haggai and Zechariah and the angel of the twelve 
prophesied. And the high priest was Joshua the son of Josedec. And in the second 
year of the reign of Darius, who, Herodotus says, destroyed the power of the 
Magi, Zorobabel the son of Salathiel was despatched to raise and adorn the 
temple at Jerusalem. 
The times of the Persians are accordingly summed up thus: Cyrus reigned 
thirty years; Cambyses, nineteen; Darius, forty-six; Xerxes, twenty-six; 
Artaxerxes, forty-one; Darius, eight; Artaxerxes, forty-two; Ochus or Arses, 
three. The sum total of the years of the Persian monarchy is two hundred and 
thirty-five years. 
Alexander of Macedon, having despatched this Darius, during this period, 
began to reign. Similarly, therefore, the times of the Macedonian kings are thus 
computed: Alexander, eighteen years; Ptolemy the son of Lagus, forty years; 
Ptolemy Philadelphus, twenty-seven years; then Euergetes, five-and-twenty years; 
then Philopator, seventeen years; then Epiphanes, four-and-twenty years; he was 
succeeded by Philometer, who reigned five-and-thirty years; after him Physcon, 
twenty-nine years; then Lathurus, thirty-six years; then he that was surnamed I 
Dionysus, twenty-nine years; and last Cleopatra reigned twenty-two years. And 
after her was the reign of the Cappadocians for eighteen days. 
Accordingly the period embraced by the Macedonian kings is, in all, three 
hundred and twelve years and eighteen days. 
Therefore those who prophesied in the time of Darius Hystaspes, about the 
second year of his reign, -- Haggai, and Zechariah, and the angel of the twelve, 
who prophesied about the first year of the forty-eighth Olympiad, -- are 
demonstrated to be older than Pythagoras, who is said to have lived in the 
sixty-second Olympiad, and than Thales, the oldest of the wise men of the 
Greeks, who lived about the fiftieth Olympiad. Those wise men that are classed 
with Thales were then contemporaneous, as Andron says in the Tripos. For 
Heraclitus being posterior to Pythagoras, mentions him in his book. Whence 
indisputably the first Olympiad, which was demonstrated to be four hundred and 
seven years later than the Trojan war, is found to be prior to the age of the 
above-mentioned prophets, together with those called the seven wise men. 
Accordingly it is easy to perceive that Solomon, who lived in the time of 
Menelaus (who was during the Trojan war), was earlier by many years than the 
wise men among the Greeks. And how many years Moses preceded him we showed, in 
what we said above. And Alexander, surnamed Polyhistor, in his work on the Jews, 
has transcribed some letters of Solomon to Vaphres king of Egypt, and to the 
king of the Phoenicians at Tyre, and theirs to Solomon; in which it is shown 
that Vaphres sent eighty thousand Egyptian men to him for the building of the 
temple, and the other as many, along with a Tyrian artificer, the son of a 
Jewish mother, of the tribe of Dan, as is there written, of the name of Hyperon. 
Further, Onomacritus the Athenian, who is said to have been the author of the 
poems ascribed to Orpheus, is ascertained to have lived in the reign of the 
Pisistratidae, about the fiftieth Olympiad. And Orpheus, who sailed with 
Hercules, was the pupil of Musaeus. Amphion precedes the Trojan war by two 
generations. And Demodocus and Phemius were posterior to the capture of Troy; 
for they were famed for playing on the lyre, the former among the Phaeacians, 
and the latter among the suitors. And the Orades ascribed to Musaeus are said to 
be the production of Onomacritus, and the Crateres of Orpheus the production of 
Zopyrus of Heraclea, and The Descent to Hades that of Prodicus of Samos. Ion of 
Chios relates in the Triagmi, that Pythagoras ascribed certain works [of his 
own] to Orpheus. Epigenes, in his book respecting The Poetry attributed to 
Orpheus, says that The Descent to Hades and the Sacred Discourse were the 
production of Cecrops the Pythagorean; and the Peplus and the Physics of 
Brontinus. Some also make Terpander out ancient. Hellanicus, accordingly, 
relates that he lived in the time of Midas: but Phanias, who places Lesches the 
Lesbian before Terpander, makes Terpander younger than Archilochus, and relates 
that Lesches contended with Arctinus, and gained the victory. Xanthus the Lydian 
says that he lived about the eighteenth Olympiad; as also Dionysius says that 
Thasus was built about the fifteenth Olympiad: so that it is clear that 
Archilochus was already known after the twentieth Olympiad. He accordingly 
relates the destruction of Magnetes as having recently taken place. Simonides is 
assigned to the time of Archilochus. Callinns is not much older; for Archilochus 
refers to Magnetes as destroyed, while the latter refers to it as flourishing. 
Eumelus of Corinth being older, is said to have met Archias, who founded 
Syracuse. 
We were induced to mention these things, because the poets of the epic cycle 
are placed amongst those of most remote antiquity. Already, too, among the 
Greeks, many diviners are said to have made their appearance, as the Bacides, 
one a Boeotian, the other an Arcadian, who uttered many predictions to many. By 
the counsel of Amphiletus the Athenian, who showed the time for the onset, 
Pisistratus, too, strengthened his government. For we may pass over in silence 
Cometes of Crete, Cinyras of Cyprus, Admetus the Thessalian, Aristaeas the 
Cyrenian, Amphiaraus the Athenian, Timoxeus the Corcyraean, Demaenetus the 
Phocian, Epigenes the Thespian, Nicias the Carystian, Aristo the Thessalian, 
Dionysius the Carthaginian, Cleophon the Corinthian, Hippo the daughter of 
Chiro, and Boeo, and Manto, and the host of Sibyls, the Samian, the Colophonian, 
the Cumaean, the Erythraean, the Pythian, the Taraxandrian, the Macetian, the 
Thessalian, and the Thesprotian. And Calchas again, and Mopsus, who lived during 
the Trojan war. Mopsus, however, was older, having sailed along with the 
Argonants. And it is said that Battus the Cyrenian composed what is called the 
Divination of Mop-sus. Dorotheus in the first Pandect relates that Mopsus was 
the disciple of Alcyon and Corone. And Pythagoras the Great always applied his 
mind to prognostication, and Abaris the Hyperborean, and Aristaeas the 
Proconnesian, and Epimenides the Cretan, who came to Sparta, and Zoroaster the 
Mede, and Empedocles of Agrigentum, and Phormion the Lacedaemonian; Polyaratus, 
too, of Thasus, and Empedotimus of Syracuse; and in addition to these, Socrates 
the Athenian in particular. 
"For," he says in the Theages, "I am attended by a supernatural intimation, 
which has been assigned me from a child by divine appointment. This is a voice 
which, when it comes, prevents What I am about to do, but exhorts never." 
And Execestus, the tyrant of the Phocians, wore two enchanted rings, and by 
the sound which they uttered one against the other determined the proper times 
for actions. But he died, nevertheless, treacherously murdered, although warned 
beforehand by the sound, as Aristotle says in the Polity of the Phocians. 
Of those, too, who at one time lived as men among the Egyptians, but were 
constituted gods by human opinion, were Hermes the Theban, and Asclepius of 
Memphis; Tireseus and Manto, again, at Thebes, as Euripides says. Helenus, too, 
and Laocoon, and OEnone, and Crenus in Ilium. For Crenus, one of the Heraclidae, 
is said to have been a noted prophet. Another was Jamus in Elis, from whom came 
the Jamidae; and Polyidus at Argos and Megara, who is mentioned by the tragedy. 
Why enumerate Telemus, who, being a prophet of the Cyclops, predicted to 
Polyphemus the events of Ulysses' wandering; or Onomacritus at Athens; or 
Amphiaraus, who campaigned with the seven at Thebes, and is reported to be a 
generation older than the capture of Troy; or Theoclymenus in Cephalonia, or 
Telmisus in Caria, or Galeus in Sicily? 
There are others, too, besides these: Idmon, who was with the Argonauts, 
Phemonoe of Delphi, Mopsus the son of Apollo and Manto in Pamphylia, and 
Amphilochus the son of Amphiaraus in Cilicia, Alcmaeon among the Acarnanians, 
Anias in Delos, Aristander of Telmessus, who was along with Alexander. 
Philochorus also relates in the first book of the work, On Divination, that 
Orpheus was a seer. And Theopompus, and Ephorus, and Timaeus, write of a seer 
called Orthagoras; as the Samian Pythocles in the fourth book of The Italics 
writes of Caius Julius Nepos. 
But some of these "thieves and robbers," as the Scripture says, predicted for 
the most part from observation and probabilities, as physicians and soothsayers 
judge from natural signs; and others were excited by demons, or were disturbed 
by waters, and fumigations, and air of a peculiar kind. But among the Hebrews 
the prophets were moved by the power and inspiration of God. Before the law, 
Adam spoke prophetically in respect to the woman, and the naming of the 
creatures; Noah preached repentance; Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob gave many clear 
utterances respecting future and present things. Contemporaneous with the law, 
Moses and Aaron; and after these prophesied Jesus the son of Nave, Samuel, Gad, 
Nathan, Achias, Samaeas, Jehu, Elias, Michaeas, Abdiu, Elisaeus, Abbadonai, 
Amos, Esaias, Osee, Jonas, Joel, Jeremias, Sophonias the son of Buzi, Ezekiel, 
Urias, Ambacum, Naum, Daniel, Misael, who wrote the syllogisms, Aggai, 
Zacharias, and the angel among the twelve. These are, in all, five-and-thirty 
prophets. And of women (for these too prophesied), Sara, and Rebecca, and 
Mariam, and Debbora, and Olda, i.e., Huldah. 
Then within the same period John prophesied till the baptism of salvation; 
and after the birth of Christ, Anna and Simeon. For Zacaharias, John's father, 
is said in the Gospels to have prophesied before his son. Let us then draw up 
the chronology of the Greeks from Moses. 
From the birth of Moses to the exodus of the Jews from Egypt, eighty years j 
and the period down to his death, other forty years. The exodus took place in 
the time of Inachus, before the wandering of Sothis, Moses having gone forth 
from Egypt three hundred and forty-five years before. From the rule of Moses, 
and from Inachus to the flood of Deucalion, I mean the second inundation, and to 
the conflagration of Phaethon, which events happened in the time of Crotopus, 
forty generations are enumerated (three generations being reckoned for a 
century). From the flood to the conflagration of Ida, and the discovery of iron, 
and the Idaean Dactyls, are seventy-three years, according to Thrasyllus; and 
from the conflagration of Ida to the rape of Ganymede, sixty-five years. From 
this to the expedition of Perseus, when Glaucus established the Isthmian games 
in honour of Melicerta, fifteen years; and from the expedition of Perseus to the 
building of Troy, thirty-four years. From this to the voyage of the Argo, 
sixty-four years. From this to Theseus and the Minotaur, thirty-two years; then 
to the seven at Thebes, ten years. And to the Olympic contest, which Hercules 
instituted in honour of Pelops, three years; and to the expedition of the 
Amazons against Athens, and the rape of Helen by Theseus, nine years. From this 
to the deification of Hercules, eleven years; then to the rape of Helen by 
Alexander, four years. From the taking of Troy to the descent of neas and the 
founding of Lavinium, ten years; and to the government of Ascanius, eight years; 
and to the descent of the Heraclidae, sixty-one years; and to the Olympiad of 
Iphitus, three hundred and thirty-eight years. Eratosthenes thus sets down the 
dates: "From the capture of Troy to the descent of the Heraclidae, eighty years. 
From this to the founding of Ionia, sixty years; and the period following to the 
protectorate of Lycurgus, a hundred and fifty-nine years; and to the first year 
of the first Olympiad, a hundred and eight years. From which Olympiad to the 
invasion of Xerxes, two hundred and ninety-seven years; from which to the 
beginning of the Peloponnesian war, forty-eight years; and to its close, and the 
defeat of the Athenians, twenty-seven years; and to the battle at Leuctra, 
thirty-four years; after which to the death of Philip, thirty-five years. And 
after this to the decease of Alexander, twelve years." 
Again, from the first Olympiad, some say, to the building of Rome, are 
comprehended twenty-four years; and after this to the expulsion of the kings,' 
when consuls were created, about two hundred and forty-three years. And from the 
taking of Babylon to the death of Alexander, a hundred and eighty-six years. 
From this to the victory of Augustus, when Antony killed himself at Alexandria, 
two hundred and ninety-four years, when Augustus was made consul for the fourth 
time. And from this time to the games which Domitian instituted at Rome, are a 
hundred and fourteen years; and from the first games to the death of Commodus, a 
hundred and eleven years. 
There are some that from Cecrops to Alexander of Macedon reckon a thousand 
eight hundred and twenty-eight years; and from Demophon, a thousand two hundred 
and fifty; and from the taking of Troy to the expedition of the Heraclidae, a 
hundred and twenty or a hundred and eighty years. From this to the archonship of 
Evaenetus at Athens, in whose time Alexander is said to have marched into Asia, 
according to Phanias, are seven hundred and fifty years; according to Ephorus, 
seven hundred and thirty-five; according to Timaeus and Clitarchus, eight 
hundred and twenty; according to Eratosthenes, seven hundred and seventy-four. 
As also Duris, from the taking of Troy to the march of Alexander into Asia, a 
thousand years; and from that to the archonship of Hegesias, in whose time 
Alexander died eleven years. From this date to the reign of Germanicus Claudius 
Caesar, three hundred and sixty-five years. From which time the years summed up 
to the death of Commodus are manifest. 
After the Grecian period, and in accordance with the dates, as computed by 
the barbarians, very large intervals are to be assigned. 
From Adam to the deluge are comprised two thousand one hundred and 
forty-eight years, four days. From Shem to Abraham, a thousand two hundred and 
fifty years. From Isaac to the division of the land, six hundred and sixteen 
years. Then from the judges to Samuel, four hundred and sixty-three years, seven 
months. And after the judges there were five hundred and seventy-two years, six 
months, ten days of kings. 
After which periods, there were two hundred and thirty-five years of the 
Persian monarchy. Then of the Macedonian, till the death of Antony, three 
hundred and twelve years and eighteen days. After which time, the empire of the 
Romans, till the death of Commodus, lasted for two hundred and twenty-two years. 

Then, from the seventy years' captivity, and the restoration of the people 
into their own land to the captivity in the time of Vespasian, are comprised 
four hundred and ten years: Finally, from Vespasian to the death of Commodus, 
there are ascertained to be one hundred and twenty-one years, six months, and 
twenty-four days. 
Demetrius, in his book, On the Kings in Judaea, says that the tribes of Juda, 
Benjamin, and Levi were not taken captive by Sennacherim; but that there were 
from this captivity to the last, which Nabuchodonosor made out of Jerusalem, a 
hundred and twenty-eight years and six months; and from the time that the ten 
tribes were carried captive from Samaria till Ptolemy the Fourth, were five 
hundred and seventy-three years, nine months; and from the time that the 
captivity from Jerusalem took place, three hundred and thirty-eight years and 
three months. 
Philo himself set down the kings differently from Demetrius. Besides, 
Eupolemus, in a similar work, says that all the years from Adam to the fifth 
year of Ptolemy Demetrius, who reigned twelve years in Egypt, when added, amount 
to five thousand a hundred and forty-nine; and from the time that Moses brought 
out the Jews from Egypt to the above-mentioned date, there are, in all, two 
thousand five hundred and eighty years. And from this time till the consulship 
in Rome of Caius Domitian and Casian, a hundred and twenty years are computed. 
Euphorus and many other historians say that there are seventy-five nations 
and tongues, in consequence of hearing the statement made by Moses: "All the 
souls that sprang from Jacob, which went down into Egypt, were seventy-five." 
According to the true reckoning, there appear to be seventy-two generic 
dialects, as our Scriptures hand down. The rest of the vulgar tongues are formed 
by the blending of two, or three, or more dialects. 
A dialect is a mode of speech which exhibits a character peculiar to a 
locality, or a mode of speech which exhibits a character peculiar or common to a 
race. The Greeks say, that among them are five dialects -- the Attic, Ionic, 
Doric, Aeolic, and the fifth the Common; and that the languages of the 
barbarians, which are innumerable, are not called dialects, but tongues. 
Plato attributes a dialect also to the gods, forming this conjecture mainly 
from dreams and oracles, and especially from demoniacs, who do not speak their 
own language or dialect, but that of the demons who have taken possession of 
them. He thinks also that the irrational creatures have dialects, which those 
that belong to the same genus understand. Accordingly, when an elephant falls 
into the mud and bellows out any other one that is at hand, on seeing what has 
happened, shortly turns, and brings with him a herd of elephants, and saves the 
one that has fallen in. It is said also in Libya, that a scorpion, if it does 
not succeed in stinging a man, goes away and returns with several more; and 
that, hanging on one to the other like a chain they make in this way the attempt 
to succeed in their cunning design. 
The irrational creatures do not make use of an obscure intimation, or hint 
their meaning by assuming a particular attitude, but, as I think, by a dialect 
of their own. And some others say, that if a fish which has been taken escape by 
breaking the line, no fish of the same kind will be caught in the same place 
that day. But the first and generic barbarous dialects have terms by nature, 
since also men confess that prayers uttered in a barbarian tongue are more 
powerful. And Plato, in the Cratylus, when wishing to interpret pyr 
(fire), says that it is a barbaric term. He testifies, accordingly, that the 
Phrygians use this term with a slight deviation. 
And nothing, in my opinion, after these details, need stand in the way of 
stating the periods of the Roman emperors, in order to the demonstration of the 
Saviour's birth. Augustus, forty-three years; Tiberius, twenty-two years; Caius, 
four years; Claudius, fourteen years; Nero, fourteen years; Galba, one year; 
Vespasian, ten years; Titus, three years; Domitian, fifteen years; Nerva, one 
year; Trajan, nineteen years; Adrian, twenty-one years; Antoninus, twenty-one 
years; likewise again, Antoninus and Commodus, thirty-two. In all, from Augustus 
to Commodus, are two hundred and twenty-two years; and from Adam to the death of 
Commodus, five thousand seven hundred and eighty-four years, two months, twelve 
days. 
Some set down the dates of the Roman emperors thus: Caius Julius Caesar, 
three years, four months, five days; after him Augustus reigned forty-six years, 
four months, one day. Then Tiberius, twenty-six years, six months, nineteen 
days. He was succeeded by Caius Caesar, who reigned three years, ten months, 
eight days; and be by Claudius for thirteen years, eight months, twenty-eight 
days. Nero reigned thirteen years, eight months, twenty-eight days; Galba, seven 
months and six days; Otho, five months, one day; Vitellius, seven months, one 
day; Vespasian, eleven years, eleven months, twenty-two days; Titus, two years, 
two months; Domitian, fifteen years, eight months, five days; Nerva, one year, 
four months, ten days; Trajan, nineteen years, seven months, ten days; Adrian, 
twenty years, ten months, twenty-eight days. Antoninus, twenty-two years, three 
months, and seven days; Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, nineteen years, eleven days; 
Commodus, twelve years, nine months, fourteen days. 
From Julius Caesar, therefore, to the death of Commodus, are two hundred and 
thirty-six years, six months. And the whole from Romulus, who founded Rome, till 
the death of Commodus, amounts to nine hundred and fifty-three years, six 
months. And our Lord was born in the twenty-eighth year, when first the census 
was ordered to be taken in the reign of Augustus. And to prove that this is 
true, it is written in the Gospel by Luke as follows: "And in the fifteenth 
year, in the reign of Tiberius Caesar, the word of the Lord came to John, the 
son of Zacharias." And again in the same book: "And Jesus was coming to His 
baptism, being about thirty years old," and so on. And that it was necessary for 
Him to preach only a year, this also is written: "He hath sent Me to proclaim 
the acceptable year of the Lord." This both the prophet spake, and the Gospel. 
Accordingly, in fifteen years of Tiberius and fifteen years of Augustus; so were 
completed the thirty years till the time He suffered. And from the time that He 
suffered till the destruction of Jerusalem are forty-two years and three months; 
and from the destruction of Jerusalem to the death of Commodus, a hundred and 
twenty-eight years, ten months, and three days. From the birth of Christ, 
therefore, to the death of Commodus are, in all, a hundred and ninety-four 
years, one month, thirteen days. And there are those who have determined not 
only the year of our Lord's birth, but also the day; and they say that it took 
place in the twenty-eighth year of Augustus, and in the twenty-fifth day of 
Pachon. And the followers of Basilides hold the day of his baptism as a 
festival, spending the night before in readings. 
And they say that it was the fifteenth year of Tiberius Caesar, the fifteenth 
day of the month Tubi; and some that it was the eleventh of the same month, And 
treating of His passion, with very great accuracy, some say that it took place 
in the sixteenth year of Tiberius, on the twenty-fifth of Phamenoth; and others 
the twenty-fifth of Pharmuthi and others say that on the nineteenth of Pharmuthi 
the Saviour suffered. Further, others say that He was born on the twenty-fourth 
or twenty-fifth of Pharmuthi. 
We have still to add to our chronology the following, -- I mean the days 
which Daniel indicates from the desolation of Jerusalem, the seven years and 
seven months of the reign of Vespasian. For the two years are added to the 
seventeen months and eighteen days of Otho, and Galba, and Vitellius; and the 
result is three years and six months, which is "the half of the week," as Daniel 
the prophet said. For he said that there were two thousand three hundred days 
from the time that the abomination of Nero stood in the holy city, till its 
destruction. For thus the declaration, which is subjoined, shows: "How long 
shall be the vision, the sacrifice taken away, the abomination of desolation, 
which is given, and the power and the holy place shall be trodden under foot? 
And he said to him, Till the evening and morning, two thousand three hundred 
days, and the holy place shall be taken away." 
These two thousand three hundred days, then, make six years four months, 
during the half of which Nero held sway, and it was half a week; and for a half, 
Vespasian with Otho, Galba, and Vitellius reigned. And on this account Daniel 
says, "Blessed is he that cometh to the thousand three hundred and thirty-five 
days." For up to these days was war, and after them it ceased. And this number 
is demonstrated from a subsequent chapter, which is as follows: "And from the 
time of the change of continuation, and of the giving of the abomination of 
desolation, there shall be a thousand two hundred and ninety days. Blessed is he 
that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand three hundred and thirty-five days." 
Flavius Josephus the Jew, who composed the history of the Jews, computing the 
periods, says that from Moses to David were five hundred and eighty-five years; 
from David to the second year of Vespasian, a thousand one hundred and 
seventy-nine; then from that to the tenth year of Antoninus, seventy-seven. So 
that from Moses to the tenth year of Antoninus there are, in all, two thousand 
one hundred and thirty-three years. 
Of others, counting from Inachus and Moses to the death of Commodus, some say 
there were three thousand one hundred and forty-two years; and others, two 
thousand eight hundred and thirty-one years. 
And in the Gospel according to Matthew, the genealogy which begins with 
Abraham is continued down to Mary the mother of the Lord. "For," it is said, 
"from Abraham to David are fourteen generations; and from David to the carrying 
away into Babylon are fourteen generations; and from the carrying away into 
Babylon till Christ are likewise other fourteen generations," -- three mystic 
intervals completed in six weeks. 
CHAPTER XXII -- ON THE GREEK TRANSLATION OF THE OLD TESTAMENT. 
So much for the details respecting dates, as stated variously by many, and as 
set down by us. 
It is said that the Scriptures both of the law and of the prophets were 
translated from the dialect of the Hebrews into the Greek language in the reign 
of Ptolemy the son of Lagos, or, according to others, of Ptolemy surnamed 
Philadelphus; Demetrius Phalereus bringing to this task the greatest 
earnestness, and employing painstaking accuracy on the materials for the 
translation. For the Macedonians being still in possession of Asia, and the king 
being ambitious of adorning the library he had at Alexandria with all writings, 
desired the people of Jerusalem to translate the prophecies they possessed into 
the Greek dialect. And they being the subjects of the Macedonians, selected from 
those of highest character among them seventy elders, versed in the Scriptures, 
and skilled in the Greek dialect, and sent them to him with the divine books. 
And each having severally translated each prophetic book, and all the 
translations being compared together, they agreed both in meaning and 
expression. For it was the counsel of God carried out for the benefit of Grecian 
ears. It was not alien to the inspiration of God, who gave the prophecy, also to 
produce the translation, and make it as it were Greek prophecy. Since the 
Scriptures having perished in the captivity of Nabuchodonosor, Esdras the 
Levite, the priest, in the time of Artaxerxes king of the Persians, having 
become inspired in the exercise of prophecy restored again the whole of the 
ancient Scriptures. And Aristobulus, in his first book addressed to Philometor, 
writes in these words: "And Plato followed the laws given to us, and had 
manifestly studied all that is said in them." And before Demetrius there had 
been translated by another, previous to the dominion of Alexander and of the 
Persians, the account of the departure of our countrymen the Hebrews from Egypt, 
and the fame of all that happened to them, and their taking possession of the 
land, and the account of the whole code of laws; so that it is perfectly clear 
that the above-mentioned philosopher derived a great deal from this source, for 
he was very learned, as also Pythagoras, who transferred many things from our 
books to his own system of doctrines. And Numenius, the Pythagorean philosopher, 
expressly writes: "For what is Plato, but Moses speak ing in Attic Greek?" This 
Moses was a theologian and prophet, and as some say, an interpreter of sacred 
laws. His family, his deeds, and life, are related by the Scriptures themselves, 
which are worthy of all credit; but have nevertheless to be stated by us also as 
well as we can. 
CHAPTER XXIII -- THE AGE, BIRTH, AND LIFE OF MOSES. 
Moses, originally of a Chaldean family, was born in Egypt, his ancestors 
having migrated from Babylon into Egypt on account of a protracted famine. Born 
in the seventh generation and having received a royal education, the following 
are the circumstances of his history. The Hebrews having increased in Egypt to a 
great multitude, and the king of the country being afraid of insurrection in 
consequence of their numbers, he ordered all the female children born to the 
Hebrews to be reared (woman being unfit for war), but the male to be destroyed, 
being suspicious of stalwart youth. But the child being goodly, his parents 
nursed him secretly three months, natural affection being too strong for the 
monarch's cruelty. But at last, dreading lest they should be destroyed along 
with the child, they made a basket of the papyrus that grew there, put the child 
in it, and laid it on the banks of the marshy river. The child's sister stood at 
a distance, and watched what would happen. In this emergency, the king's 
daughter, who for a long time had not been pregnant, and who longed for a child, 
came that day to the river to bathe and wash herself; and hearing the child cry, 
she ordered it to be brought to her; and touched with pity, sought a nurse. At 
that moment the child's sister ran up, and said that, if she wished, she could 
procure for her as nurse one of the Hebrew women who had recently had a child. 
And on her consenting and desiring her to do so, she brought the child's mother 
to be nurse for a stipulated fee, as if she had been some other person. 
Thereupon the queen gave the babe the name of Moses, with etymological 
propriety, from his being drawn out of "the water," -- for the Egyptians call 
water "mou," -- in which he had been exposed to die. For they call Moses one who 
"who breathed [on being taken] from the water." It is clear that previously the 
parents gave a name to the child on his circumcision; and he was called Joachim. 
And he had a third name in heaven, after his ascension, as the mystics say -- 
Melchi. Having reached the proper age, he was taught arithmetic, geometry, 
poetry, harmony, and besides, medicine and music, by those that excelled in 
these arts among the Egyptians; and besides, the philosophy which is conveyed by 
symbols, which they point out in the hieroglyphical inscriptions. The rest of 
the usual course of instruction, Greeks taught him in Egypt as a royal child, as 
Philo says in his life of Moses. He learned, besides, the literature of the 
Egyptians, and the knowledge of the heavenly bodies from the Chaldeans and the 
Egyptians; whence in the Acts he is said "to have been instructed in all the 
wisdom of the Egyptians." And Eupolemus, in his book On the Kings in Judea, says 
that "Moses was the first wise man, and the first that imparted grammar to the 
Jews, that the Phoenicians received it from the Jews, and the Greeks from the 
Phoenicians." And betaking himself to their philosophy, he increased his wisdom, 
being ardently attached to the training received from his kindred and ancestors, 
till he struck and slew the Egyptian who wrongfully attacked the Hebrew. And the 
mystics say that he slew the Egyptian by a word only; as, certainly, Peter in 
the Acts is related to have slain by speech those who appropriated part of the 
price of the field, and lied. And so Artapanus, in his work On the Jews, relates 
"that Moses, being shut up in custody by Chenephres, king of the Egyptians, on 
account of the people demanding to be let go from Egypt, the prison being opened 
by night, by the interposition of God, went forth, and reaching the palace, 
stood before the king as he slept, and aroused him; and that the latter, struck 
with what had taken place, bade Moses tell him the name of the God who had sent 
him; and that he, bending forward, told him in his ear; and that the king on 
hearing it fell speechless, but being supported by Moses, revived again." And 
respecting the education of Moses, we shall find a harmonious account in 
Ezekiel, the composer of Jewish tragedies in the drama entitled The Exodus. He 
thus writes in the person of Moses: "For, seeing our race abundantly increase, 
His treacherous snares King Pharaoh 'gainst us laid, And cruelly in brick-kilns 
some of us, And some, in toilsome works of building, plagued. 
And towns and towers by toil of ill-starred men He raised. Then to the Hebrew 
race proclaimed, That each male child should in deep-flowing Nile Be drowned. My 
mother bore and hid me then Three months (so afterwards she told). Then took, 
And me adorned with fair array, and placed On the deep sedgy marsh by Nilus 
bank, While Miriam, my sister, watched afar. 
Then, with her maids, the daughter of the king, To bathe her beauty in the 
cleansing stream, Came near, straight saw, and took and raised me up; And knew 
me for a Hebrew. Miriam My sister to the princess ran, and said, 'Is it thy 
pleasure, that I haste and find A nurse for thee to rear this child Among the 
Hebrew women?' The princess Gave assent. The maiden to her mother sped, And 
told, who quick appeared. My own Dear mother took me in her arms. Then said The 
daughter of the king: 'Nurse me this child, And I will give thee wages.' And my 
name Moses she called, because she drew and saved Me from the waters on the 
river's bank. 
And when the days of childhood had flown by, My mother brought me to the 
palace where The princess dwelt, after disclosing all About my ancestry, and 
God's great gifts. 
In boyhood's years I royal nurture had, And in all princely exercise was 
trained, As if the princess's very son. But when The circling days had run their 
course, I left the royal palace." 
Then, after relating the combat between the Hebrew and the Egyptian, and the 
burying of the Egyptian in the sand, he says of the other contest: "Why strike 
one feebler than thyself? 
And he rejoined: Who made thee judge o'er us, Or ruler? Wilt thou slay me, as 
thou didst Him yesterday? And I m terror said, How is this known?" 
Then he fled from Egypt and fed sheep, being thus trained beforehand for 
pastoral rule. For the shepherd's life is a preparation for sovereignty in the 
case of him who is destined to rule over the peaceful flock of men, as the chase 
for those who are by nature warlike. Thence God brought him to lead the Hebrews. 
Then the Egyptians, oft admonished, continued unwise; and the Hebrews were 
spectators of the calamities that others suffered, learning in safety the power 
of God. And when the Egyptians gave no heed to the effects of that power, 
through their foolish infatuation disbelieving, then, as is said, "the children 
knew" what was done; and the Hebrews afterwards going forth, departed carrying 
much spoil from the Egyptians, not for avarice, as the cavillers say, for God 
did not persuade them to covet what belonged to others. But, in the first place, 
they took wages for the services they had rendered the Egyptians all the time; 
and then in a way recompensed the Egyptians, by afflicting them in requital as 
avaricious, by the abstraction of the booty, as they had done the Hebrews by 
enslaving them. Whether, then, as may be alleged is done in war, they thought it 
proper, in the exercise of the rights of conquerors, to take away the property 
of their enemies, as those who have gained the day do from those who are worsted 
(and there was just cause of hostilities. The Hebrews came as suppliants to the 
Egyptians on account of famine; and they, reducing their guests to slavery, 
compelled them to serve them after the manner of captives, giving them no 
recompense); or as in peace, took the spoil as wages against the will of those 
who for a long period had given them no recompense, but rather had robbed them, 
[it is all one.] 
CHAPTER XXIV -- HOW MOSES DISCHARGED THE PART OF A MILITARY LEADER. 
Our Moses then is a prophet, a legislator, skilled in military tactics and 
strategy, a politician, a philosopher. And in what sense he was a prophet, shall 
be by and by told, when we come to treat of prophecy. Tactics belong to military 
command, and the ability to command an army is among the attributes of kingly 
rule. Legislation, again, is also one of the functions of the kingly office, as 
also judicial authority. 
Of the kingly office one kind is divine, -- that which is according to God 
and His holy Son, by whom both the good things which are of the earth, and 
external and perfect felicity too, are supplied. "For," it is said, "seek what 
is great, and the little things shall be added." And there is a second kind of 
royalty, inferior to that administration which is purely rational and divine, 
which brings to the task of government merely the high mettle of the soul; after 
which fashion Hercules ruled the Argives, and Alexander the Macedonians. The 
third kind is what aims after one thing -- merely to conquer and overturn; but 
to turn conquest either to a good or a bad purpose, belongs not to such rule. 
Such was the aim of the Persians in their campaign against Greece. For, on the 
one hand, fondness for strife is solely the result of passion, and acquires 
power solely for the sake of domination; while, on the other, the love of good 
is characteristic of a soul which uses its high spirit for noble ends. The 
fourth, the worst of all, is the sovereignty which acts according to the 
promptings of the passions, as that of Sardanapalus, and those who propose to 
themselves as their end the gratification of the passions to the utmost. But the 
instrument of regal sway -- the instrument at once of that which overcomes by 
virtue, and that which does so by force -- is the power of managing (or tact). 
And it, varies according to the nature and the material. In the case of arms and 
of fighting animals the ordering power is the soul and mind, by means animate 
and inanimate; and in the case of the passions of the soul, which we master by 
virtue, reason is the ordering power, by affixing the seal of continence and 
self-restraint, along with holiness, and sound knowledge with truth, making the 
result of the whole to terminate in piety towards God. For it is wisdom which 
regulates in the case of those who so practise virtue; and divine things are 
ordered by wisdom, and human affairs by politics -- all things by the kingly 
faculty. He is a king, then, who governs according to the laws, and possesses 
the skill to sway willing subjects. Such is the Lord, who receives all who 
believe on Him and by Him. For the Father has delivered and subjected all to 
Christ our King," that at the name of Jesus every knee may bow, of things in 
heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth, and every tongue 
confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.' 
Now, generalship involves three ideas: caution, enterprise, and the union of 
the two. And each of these consists of three things, acting as they do either by 
word, or by deeds, or by both together. And all this can be accomplished either 
by persuasion, or by compulsion, or by inflicting harm in the way of taking 
vengeance on those who ought to be punished; and this either by doing what is 
right, or by telling what is untrue, or by telling what is true, or by adopting 
any of these means conjointly at the same time. 
Now, the Greeks had the advantage of receiving from Moses all these, and the 
knowledge of how to make use of each of them. And, for the sake of example, I 
shall cite one or two instances of leadership. Moses, on leading the people 
forth, suspecting that the Egyptians would pursue, left the short and direct 
route, and turned to the desert, and marched mostly by night. For it was another 
kind of arrangement by which the Hebrews were trained in the great wilderness, 
and for a protracted time, to belief in the existence of one God alone, being 
inured by the wise discipline of endurance to which they were subjected. The 
strategy of Moses, therefore, shows the necessity of discerning what will be of 
service before the approach of dangers, and so to encounter them. It turned out 
precisely as he suspected, for the Egyptians pursued with horses and chariots, 
but were quickly destroyed by the sea breaking on them and overwhelming them 
with their horses and chariots, so that not a remnant of them was left. 
Afterwards the pillar of fire, which accompanied them (for it went before them 
as a guide), conducted the Hebrews by night through an untrodden region, 
training and bracing them, by toils and hardships, to manliness and endurance, 
that after their experience of what appeared formidable difficulties, the 
benefits of the land, to which from the trackless desert he was conducting them, 
might become apparent. Furthermore, he put to flight and slew the hostile 
occupants of the land, falling upon them from a desert and rugged line of march 
(such was the excellence of his generalship). For the taking of the land of 
those hostile tribes was a work of skill and strategy. 
Perceiving this, Miltiades, the Athenian general, who conquered the Persians 
in battle at Marathon, imitated it in the following fashion. Marching over a 
trackless desert, he led on the Athenians by night, and eluded the barbarians 
that were set to watch him. For Hippias, who had deserted from the Athenians, 
conducted the barbarians into Attica, and seized and held the points of vantage, 
in consequence of having a knowledge of the ground. The task was then to elude 
Hippias. Whence rightly Miltiades, traversing the desert and attacking by night 
the Persians commanded by Dates, led his soldiers to victory. 
But further, when Thrasybulus was bringing back the exiles from Phyla, and 
wished to elude observation, a pillar became his guide as he marched over a 
trackless region. To Thrasybulus by night, the sky being moonless and stormy, a 
fire appeared leading the way, which, having conducted them safely, left them 
near Munychia, where is now the altar of the light-bringer (Phosphorus). 
From such an instance, therefore, let our accounts become credible to the 
Greeks, namely, that it was possible for the omnipotent God to make the pillar 
of fire, which was their guide on their march, go before the Hebrews by night. 
It is said also in a certain oracle,- "A pillar to the Thebans is joy-inspiring 
Bacchus," from the history of the Hebrews. Also Euripides says, in Antiope,- "In 
the chambers within, the herdsman, With chaplet of ivy, pillar of the Evoean 
god." 
The pillar indicates that God cannot be portrayed. The pillar of light, too, 
in addition to its pointing out that God cannot be represented, shows also the 
stability and the permanent duration of the Deity, and His unchangeable and 
inexpressible light. Before, then, the invention of the forms of images, the 
ancients erected pillars, and reverenced them as statues of the Deity. 
Accordingly, he who composed the Pharonis writes,- "Callithoe, key-bearer of 
the Olympian queen: Argive Hera, who first with fillets and with fringes The 
queen's tall column all around adorned." 
Further, the author of Europia relates that the statue of Apollo at Delphi 
was a pillar in these words: "That to the god first-fruits and tithes we may On 
sacred pillars and on lofty column hang." 
Apollo, interpreted mystically by "privation of many," means the one God. 
Well, then, that fire like a pillar, and the fire in the desert, is the symbol 
of the holy light which passed through from earth and returned again to heaven, 
by the wood [of the cross], by which also the gift of intellectual vision was 
bestowed on us. 
CHAPTER XXV -- PLATO AN IMITATOR OF MOSES IN FRAMING LAWS. 
Plato the philosopher, aided in legislation by the books of Moses, censured 
the polity of Minos, and that of Lycurgus, as having bravery alone as their aim; 
while he praised as more seemly the polity which expresses some one thing, and 
directs according to one precept. For he says that it becomes us to philosophize 
with strength, and dignity, and wisdom, -- holding unalterably the same opinions 
about the same things, with reference to the dignity of heaven. Accordingly, 
therefore, he interprets what is in the law, enjoining us to look to one God and 
to do justly. Of politics, he says there are two kinds, -- the department of 
law, and that of politics, strictly so called. 
And he refers to the Creator, as the Statesman (o politikos) by way of 
eminence, in his book of this name (o politikos); and those who 
lead an active and just life, combined with contemplation, he calls statesmen 
(politiko). That department of politics which is called "Law," he divides 
into administrative magnanimity and private good order, which he calls 
orderliness; and harmony, and sobriety, which are seen when rulers suit their 
subjects, and subjects are obedient to their rulers; a result which the system 
of Moses sedulously aims at effecting. Further, that the department of law is 
founded on generation, that of politics on friendship and consent, Plato, with 
the aid he received, affirms; and so, coupled with the laws the philosopher in 
the Epinomis, who knew the course of all generation, which takes place by the 
instrumentality of the planets; and the other philosopher, Timaeus, who was an 
astronomer and student of the motions of the stars, and of their sympathy and 
association with one another, he consequently joined to the "polity" (or 
"republic"). Then, in my opinion, the end both of the statesman, and of him who 
lives according to the law, is contemplation. It is necessary, therefore, that 
public affairs should be rightly managed. But to philosophize is best. For he 
who is wise will live concentrating all his energies on knowledge, directing his 
life by good deeds, despising the opposite, and following the pursuits which 
contribute to truth. And the law is not what is decided by law (for what is seen 
is not vision), nor every opinion (not certainly what is evil). But law is the 
opinion which is good, and what is good is that which is true, and what is true 
is that which finds "true being," and attains to it. "He who is," says Moses, 
"sent me." In accordance with which, namely, good opinion, some have called law, 
right reason, which enjoins what is to be done and forbids what is not to be 
done. 
CHAPTER XXVI -- MOSES RIGHTLY CALLED A DIVINE LEGISLATOR, AND, THOUGH 
INFERIOR TO CHRIST, FAR SUPERIOR TO THE GREAT LEGISLATORS OF THE GREEKS, MINOS 
AND LYCURGUS. 
Whence the law was rightly said to have been given by Moses, being a rule of 
fight and wrong; and we may call it with accuracy the divine ordinance 
(qesmos, inasmuch as it was given by God through Moses. It accordingly 
conducts to the divine. Paul says: "The law was instituted because of 
transgressions, till the seed should come, to whom the promise was made." Then, 
as if in explanation of his meaning, he adds: "But before faith came, we were 
kept under the law, shut up," manifestly through fear, in consequence of sins, 
"unto the faith which should afterwards be revealed; so that the law was a 
schoolmaster to bring us to Christ, that we should be justified by faith." The 
true legislator is he who assigns to each department of the soul what is 
suitable to it and to its operations. Now Moses, to speak comprehensively, was a 
living law, governed by the benign Word. Accordingly, he furnished a good 
polity, which is the right discipline of men in social life. He also handled the 
administration of justice, which is that branch of knowledge which deals with 
the correction of transgressors in the interests of justice. Co-ordinate with it 
is the faculty of dealing with punishments, which is a knowledge of the due 
measure to be observed in punishments. And punishment, in virtue of its being 
so, is the correction of the soul. In a word, the whole system of Moses is 
suited for the training of such as are capable of becoming good and noble men, 
and for hunting out men like them; and this is the art of command. And that 
wisdom, which is capable of treating rightly those who have been caught by the 
Word, is legislative wisdom. For it is the property of this wisdom, being most 
kingly, to possess and use, It is the wise man, therefore, alone whom the 
philosophers proclaim king, legislator, general, just, holy, God-beloved. And if 
we discover these qualities in Moses, as shown from the Scriptures themselves, 
we may, with the most assured persuasion, pronounce Moses to be truly wise. As 
then we say that it belongs to the shepherd's art to care for the sheep; for so 
"the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep;" so also we shall say that 
legislation, inasmuch as it presides over and cares for the flock of men, 
establishes the virtue of men, by fanning into flame, as far as it can, what 
good there is in humanity. 
And if the flock figuratively spoken of as belonging to the Lord is nothing 
but a flock of men, then He Himself is the good Shepherd and Lawgiver of the one 
flock, "of the sheep who hear Him," the one who cares for them, "seeking," and 
finding by the law and the word, "that which was lost;" since, in truth, the law 
is spiritual and leads to felicity. For that which has arisen through the Holy 
Spirit is spiritual. And he is truly a legislator, who not only announces what 
is good and noble, but understands it. The law of this man who possesses 
knowledge is the saving precept; or rather, the law is the precept of knowledge. 
For the Word is "the power and the wisdom of God." Again, the expounder of the 
laws is the same one by whom the law was given; the first expounder of the 
divine commands, who unveiled the bosom of the Father, the only-begotten Son. 
Then those who obey the law, since they have some knowledge of Him. cannot 
disbelieve or be ignorant of the truth. But those who disbelieve, and have shown 
a repugnance to engage in the works of the law, whoever else may, certainly 
confess their ignorance of the truth. 
What, then, is the unbelief of the Greeks? Is it not their unwillingness to 
believe the truth which declares that the law was divinely given by Moses, 
whilst they honour Moses in their own writers? They relate that Minos received 
the laws from Zeus in, nine years, by frequenting the cave of Zeus; and Plato, 
and Aristotle, and Ephorus write that Lycurgus was trained in legislation by 
going constantly to Apollo at Delphi. Chamaeleo of Heraclea, in his book On 
Drunkenness, and Aristotle in The Polity of Locrians, mention that Zaleucus the 
Locrian received the laws from Athene. 
But those who exalt the credit of Greek legislation as far as in them lies, 
by referring it to a divine source, after the model of Mosaic prophecy, are 
senseless in not owning the truth, and the archetype of what is related among 
them. 
CHAPTER XXVII -- THE LAW, EVEN IN CORRECTING AND PUNISHING, AIMS AT THE GOOD 
OF MEN. 
Let no one then, run down law, as if, on account of the penalty, it were not 
beautiful and good. For shall he who drives away bodily disease appear a 
benefactor; and shall not he who attempts to deliver the soul from iniquity, as 
much more appear a friend, as the soul is a more precious thing than the body? 
Besides, for the sake of bodily health we submit to incisions, and 
cauterizations, and medicinal draughts; and he who administers them is called 
saviour and healer even though amputating parts, not from grudge or ill-will 
towards the patient, but as the principles of the art prescribe, so that the 
sound parts may not perish along with them, and no one accuses the physician's 
art of wickedness; and shall we not similarly submit, for the soul's Sake, to 
either banishment, or punishment, or bonds, provided only from unrighteousness 
we shall attain to righteousness? 
For the law, in its solicitude for those who obey, trains up to piety, and 
prescribes what is to be done, and restrains each one from sins, imposing 
penalties even on lesser sins. 
But when it sees any one in such a condition as to appear incurable, posting 
to the last stage of wickedness, then in its solicitude for the rest, that they 
may not be destroyed by it (just as if amputating a part from the whole body), 
it condemns such an one to death, as the course most conducive to health. "Being 
judged by the Lord," says the apostle, "we are chastened, that we may not be 
condemned with the world." For the prophet had said before, "Chastening, the 
Lord hath chastised me, but hath not given me over unto death." "For in order to 
teach thee His righteousness," it is said, "He chastised thee and tried thee, 
and made thee to hunger and thirst in the desert land; that all His statutes and 
His judgments may be known in thy heart, as I command thee this day; and that 
thou mayest know in thine heart, that just as if a man were chastising his son, 
so the Lord our God shall chastise thee." 
And to prove that example corrects, he says directly to the purpose: "A 
clever man, when he seeth the wicked punished, will himself be severely 
chastised, for the fear of the Lord is the source of wisdom." 
But it is the highest and most perfect good, when one is able to lead back 
any one from the practice of evil to virtue and well-doing, which is the very 
function of the law. So that, when one fails into any incurable evil, -- when 
taken possession of, for example, by wrong or covetousness, -- it will be for 
his good if he is put to death. For the law is beneficent, being able to make 
some righteous from unrighteous, if they will only give ear to it, and by 
releasing others from present evils; for those who have chosen to live 
temperately and justly, it conducts to immortality. To know the law is 
characteristic of a good disposition. And again: "Wicked men do not understand 
the law; but they who seek the Lord shall have understanding in all that is 
good." 
It is essential, certainly, that the providence which manages all, be both 
supreme and good. For it is the power of both that dispenses salvation -- the 
one correcting by punishment, as supreme, the other showing kindness in the 
exercise of beneficence, as a benefactor. It is in your power not to be a son of 
disobedience, but to pass from darkness to life, and lending your ear to wisdom, 
to be the legal slave of God, in the first instance, and then to become a 
faithful servant, fearing the Lord God. And if one ascend higher, he is enrolled 
among the sons. 
But when "charity covers the multitude of sins," by the consummation of the 
blessed hope, then may we welcome him as one who has been enriched in love, and 
received into the elect adoption, which is called the beloved of God, while he 
chants the prayer, saying, "Let the Lord be my God." 
The beneficent action of the law, the apostle showed in the passage relating 
to the Jews, writing thus: "Behold, thou art called a Jew and restest in the 
law, and makest thy boast in God, and knowest the will of God, and approvest the 
things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law, and art 
confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind, a light of them who are in 
darkness, an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of babes, who hast the form of 
knowledge and of truth in the law." For it is admitted that such is the power of 
the law, although those whose conduct is not according to the law, make a false 
pretence, as if they lived in the law. 
"Blessed is the man that hath found wisdom, and the mortal who has seen 
understanding; for out of its mouth," manifestly Wisdom's, "proceeds 
righteousness, and it bears law and mercy on its tongue." For both the law and 
the Gospel are the energy of one Lord, who is "the power and wisdom of God;" and 
the terror which the law begets is merciful and in order to salvation. "Let not 
alms, and faith, and truth fail thee, but hang them around thy neck." In the 
same way as Paul, prophecy upbraids the people with not understanding the law. 
"Destruction and misery are in their ways, and the way of peace have they not 
known." "There is no fear of God before their eyes." "Professing themselves 
wise, they became fools." "And we know that the law is good, if a man use it 
lawfully." "Desiring to be teachers of the law, they understand," says the 
apostle, "neither what they say, nor whereof they affirm." "Now the end of the 
commandment is charity out of a pure heart, and a good conscience, and faith 
unfeigned." 
CHAPTER XXVIII -- THE FOURFOLD DIVISION OF THE MOSAIC LAW. 
The Mosaic philosophy is accordingly divided into four parts, -- into the 
historic, and that which is specially called the legislative, which two properly 
belong to an ethical treatise; and the third, that which, relates to sacrifice, 
which belongs to physical science; and the fourth, above all, the department of 
theology, "vision," which Plato predicates of the truly great mysteries. And 
this species Aristotle calls metaphysics. Dialectics, according to Plato, is, as 
he says in The Statesman, a science devoted to the discovery of the explanation 
of things. And it is to be acquired by the wise man, not for the sake of saying 
or doing aught of what we find among men (as the dialecticians, who occupy 
themselves in sophistry, do), but to be able to say and do, as far as possible, 
what is pleasing to God. But the true dialectic, being philosophy mixed with 
truth, by examining things, and testing forces and powers, gradually ascends in 
relation to the most excellent essence of all, and essays to go beyond to the 
God of the universe, professing not the knowledge of mortal affairs, but the 
science of things divine and heavenly; in accordance with which follows a 
suitable course of practice with respect to words and deeds, even in human 
affairs. Rightly, therefore, the Scripture, in its desire to make us such 
dialecticians, exhorts us: "Be ye skilful money-changers" rejecting some things, 
but retaining what is good. For this true dialectic is the science which 
analyses the objects of thought, and shows abstractly and by itself the 
individual substratum of existences, or the power of dividing things into 
genera, which descends to their most special properties, and presents each 
individual object to be contemplated simply such as it is. 
Wherefore it alone conducts to the true wisdom, which is the divine power 
which deals with the knowledge of entities as entities, which grasps what is 
perfect, and is freed from all passion; not without the Saviour, who withdraws, 
by the divine word, the gloom of ignorance arising from evil training, which had 
overspread the eye of the soul, and bestows the best of gifts,- "That we might 
well know or God or man." 
It is He who truly shows how we are to know ourselves. It is He who reveals 
the Father of the universe to whom He wills, and as far as human nature can 
comprehend. "For no man knoweth the Son but the Father, nor the Father but the 
Son, and he to whom the Son shall reveal Him.'' Rightly, then, the apostle says 
that it was by revelation that he knew the mystery: "As I wrote afore in few 
words, according as ye are able to understand my knowledge in the mystery of 
Christ." "According as ye are able," he said, since he knew that some had 
received milk only, and had not yet received meat, nor even milk simply. The 
sense of the law is to be taken in three ways, -- either as exhibiting a symbol, 
or laying down a precept for right conduct, or as uttering a prophecy. But I 
well know that it belongs to men [of full age] to distinguish and declare these 
things. For the whole Scripture is not in its meaning a single Myconos, as the 
proverbial expression has it; but those who hunt after the connection of the 
divine teaching, must approach it with the utmost perfection of the logical 
faculty. 
CHAPTER XXIX -- THE GREEKS BUT CHILDREN COMPARED WITH THE HEBREWS. 
Whence most beautifully the Egyptian priest in Plato said, "O Solon, Solon, 
you Greeks are always children, not having in your souls a single ancient 
opinion received through tradition from antiquity. And not one of the Greeks is 
an old man;" meaning by old, I suppose, those who know what belongs to the more 
remote antiquity, that is, our literature; and by young, those who treat of what 
is more recent and made the subject of study by the Greeks, -- things of 
yesterday and of recent date as if they were old and ancient. Wherefore he 
added, "and no study hoary with time;" for we, in a kind of barbarous way, deal 
in homely and rugged metaphor. Those, therefore, whose minds are rightly 
constituted approach the interpretation utterly destitute of artifice. And of 
the Greeks, he says that their opinions" differ but little from myths." For 
neither puerile fables nor stories current among children are fit for listening 
to. And he called the myths themselves "children," as if the progeny of those, 
wise in their own conceits among the Greeks, who had but little insight meaning 
by the "hoary studies" the truth which was possessed by the barbarians, dating 
from the highest antiquity. To which expression he opposed the phrase "child 
fable," censuring the mythical character of the attempts of the moderns, as, 
like children, having nothing of age in them, and affirming both in common -- 
their fables and their speeches -- to be puerile. 
Divinely, therefore, the power which spoke to Hermas by revelation said, "The 
visions and revelations are for those who are of double mind, who doubt in their 
hearts if these things are or are not." 
Similarly, also, demonstrations from the resources of erudition, strengthen, 
confirm, and establish demonstrative reasonings, in so far as men's minds are in 
a wavering state like young people's. "The good commandment," then, according to 
the Scripture, "is a lamp, and the law is a light to the path; for instruction 
corrects the ways of life." "Law is monarch of all, both of mortals and of 
immortals," says Pindar. I understand, however, by these words, Him who enacted 
law. And I regard, as spoken of the God of all, the following utterance of 
Hesiod, though spoken by the poet at random and not with comprehension: "For the 
Saturnian framed for men this law: Fishes, and beasts, and winged birds may eat 
Each other, since no rule of right is theirs; But Right (by far the best) to men 
he gave." 
Whether, then, it be the law which is connate and natural, or that given 
afterwards, which is meant, it is certainly of God; and both the law of nature 
and that of instruction are one. Thus also Plato, in The Statesman, says that 
the lawgiver is one; and in The Laws, that he who shall understand music is one; 
teaching by these words that the Word is one, and God is one. And Moses 
manifestly calls the Lord a covenant: "Behold I am my Covenant with thee," 
having previously told him not to seek the covenant in writing. For it is a 
covenant which God, the Author of all, makes. For God is called from 
qesis (placing), and order or arrangement. And in the Preaching of Peter 
you will find the Lord called Law and Word. But at this point, let our first 
Miscellany of gnostic notes, according to the true philosophy, come to a close. 


