
Clement of Alexandria












FRAGMENTS OF CLEMENS ALEXANDRINUS. 
[TRANSLATED BY REV. WILLIAM WILSON, M.A.] 
FRAGMENTS. 
I.--FROM THE LATIN TRANSLATION OF CASSIODORUS. 
I.--COMMENTS ON THE FIRST EPISTLE OF PETER. 
CHAP. i. 3. "Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who by 
His great mercy hath regenerated us." For if God generated us of matter, He 
afterwards, by progress in life, regenerated us. 
"The Father of our Lord, by the resurrection of Jesus Christ:" who, according 
to your faith, rises again in us; as, on the other hand, He dies in us, through 
the operation of our unbelief. For He said again, that the soul never returns a 
second time to the body in this life; and that which has become angelic does not 
become unrighteous or evil, so as not to have the opportunity of again sinning 
by the assumption of flesh; but that in the resurrection the soul returns to the 
body, and both are joined to one another according to their peculiar nature, 
adapting themselves, through the composition of each, by a kind of congruity 
like a building of stones. 
Besides, Peter says, "Ye also, as living stones, are built up a spiritual 
house;" meaning the place of the angelic abode, guarded in heaven. "For you," he 
says, "who are kept by the power of God, by faith and contemplation, to receive 
the end of your faith, the salvation of your souls." 
Hence it appears that the soul is not naturally immortal; but is made 
immortal by the grace of God, through faith and righteousness, and by knowledge. 
"Of which salvation," he says, "the prophets have inquired and searched 
diligently,'' and what follows. It is declared by this that the prophets spake 
with wisdom, and that the Spirit of Christ was in them, according to the 
possession of Christ, and in subjection to Christ. For God works through 
archangels and kindred angels, who are called spirits of Christ. 
"Which are now," he says, "reported unto you by them that have preached the 
Gospel unto you." The old things which were done by the prophets and escape the 
observation of most, are now revealed to you by the evangelists. "For to you," 
he says, "they are manifested by the Holy Ghost, who was sent;" that is the 
Paraclete, of whom the Lord said, "If I go not away, He will not come." "Unto 
whom," it is said, "the angels desire to look;" not the apostate angels, as most 
suspect, but, what is a divine truth, angels who desire to obtain the advantage 
of that perfection. 
"By precious blood," he says, "as of a lamb without blemish and without 
spot." Here he touches on the ancient Levitical and sacerdotal celebrations; but 
means a soul pure through righteousness which is offered to God. 
"Verily foreknown before the foundation of the world." Inasmuch as He was 
foreknown before every creature, because He was Christ. 

"But manifested in the last times" by the generation of a body. 
"Being born again, not of corruptible seed." The soul, then, which is 
produced along with the body is corruptible, as some think. 
"But the word of the Lord," he says, "endureth for ever:" as well prophecy as 
divine doctrine. 
"But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood." That we are a chosen 
race by the election of God is abundantly clear. He says royal, because we are 
called to sovereignty and belong to Christ; and priesthood on account of the 
oblation which is made by prayers and instructions, by which are gained the 
souls which are offered to God. 
"Who, when He was reviled," he says, "reviled not; when He suffered, 
threatened not." The Lord acted so in His goodness and patience. "But committed 
Himself to him that judged Him unrighteously:" whether Himself, so that, 
regarding Himself in this way, there is a transposition. He indeed gave Himself 
up to those who judged according to an unjust law; because He was unserviceable 
to them, inasmuch as He was righteous: or, He committed to God those who judged 
unrighteously, and without cause insisted on His death, so that they might be 
instructed by suffering punishment. 
"For he that will love life, and see good days;" that is, who wishes to 
become eternal and immortal. And He calls the Lord life, and the days good, that 
is holy. 
"For the eyes of the Lord," he says, "are upon the righteous, and His ears on 
their prayers:" he means the manifold inspection of the Holy Spirit. "The"face 
of the Lord is on them that do evil;" that is, whether judgment, or vengeance, 
or manifestation. 
"But sanctify the Lord Christ," he says, "in your hearts." For so you have in 
the Lord's prayer, "Hallowed be Thy name." 
"For Christ,"he says, "hath once suffered for our sins, the just for the 
unjust, that he might present us to God; being put to death in the flesh, but 
quickened in the spirit." He says these things, reducing them to their faith. 
That is, He became alive in our spirits. 
"Coming," he says, "He preached to those who were once unbelieving." They saw 
not His form, but they heard His voice. 
"When the long-suffering of God" holds. out. God is so good, as to work the 
result by the teaching of salvation. 
"By the resurrection," it is said, "of Jesus Christ:" that, namely, which is 
effected in us by faith. 
"Angels being subjected to Him," which are the first order; and 
"principalities" being subject, who are of the second order; and "powers" being 
also subject,"which are said to belong to the third order. 
"Who shall give account," he says, " to Him who is ready to judge the quick 
and the dead." 
These are trained through previous judgments. Therefore he adds, "For this 
cause was the Gospel preached also to the dead"--to us, namely, who were at one 
time unbelievers. "That they might be judged according to men," he says, " in 
the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit. Because, that is, they have 
fallen away from faith; whilst they are still in the flesh they are judged 
according to preceding judgments, that they might repent. Accordingly, he also 
adds, saying, "That they might live according to God in the spirit." So Paul 
also; for he, too, states something of this nature when he says, "Whom I have 
delivered to Satan, that he might live in the spirit; " that is, "as good 
stewards of the manifold grace of God." Similarly also Paul says, "Variously, 
and in many ways, God of old spake to our fathers." 
"Rejoice," it is said, "that ye are partakers in the sufferings of Christ:" 
that is, if ye are righteous, ye suffer for righteousness' sake, as Christ 
suffered for righteousness. "Happy are ye, for the Spirit of God, who is the 
Spirit of His glory and virtue, resteth on you." This possessive "His" signifies 
also an an angelic spirit: inasmuch as the glory of God those are, through whom, 
according to faith and righteousness, He is glorified, to honourable glory, 
according to the advancement of the saints who are brought in. "The Spirit of 
God on us," may be thus understood; that is, who through faith comes on the 
soul, like a gracefulness of mind and beauty of soul. 
"Since," it is said, "it is time for judgment beginning at the house of God." 
For judgment will overtake these in the appointed persecutions. 
"But the God of all grace," he says. "Of all grace," he says, because He is 
good, and the giver of all good things. 

"Marcus, my son, saluteth you." Mark, the follower of Peter, while Peter 
publicly preached the Gospel at Rome before some of Caesar's equites, and 
adduced many testimonies to Christ, in order that thereby they might be able to 
commit to memory what was spoken, of what was spoken by Peter wrote entirely 
what is called the Gospel according to Mark. As Luke also may be recognised by 
the style, both to have composed the Acts of the Apostles, and to have 
translated Paul's Epistle to the Hebrews. 
II.--COMMENTS ON THE EPISTLE OF JUDE, 
Jude, who wrote the Catholic Epistle, the brother of the sons of Joseph, and 
very religious, whilst knowing the near relationship of the Lord, yet did not 
say that he himself was His brother. But what said he? "Jude, a servant of Jesus 
Christ,"--of Him as Lord; but "the brother of James." For this is true; he was 
His brother, (the son) of Joseph. "For certain men have entered unawares, 
ungodly men, who had been of old ordained and predestined to the judgment of our 
God;" not that they might become impious, but that, being now impious, they were 
ordained to judgment. "For the Lord God," he says, "who once delivered a people 
out of Egypt, afterward destroyed them that believed not;" that is, that He 
might train them through punishment. For they were indeed punished, and they 
perished on account of those that are saved, until they turn to the Lord. "But 
the angels," he says, "that kept not their own pre-eminence," that, namely, 
which they received through advancement, "but left their own habitation," 
meaning, that is, the heaven and the stars, became, and are called apostates. 
"He hath reserved these to the judgment of the great day, in chains, under 
darkness." He means the place near the earth, that is, the dark air. Now he 
called "chains" the loss of the honour in which they had stood, and the lust of 
feeble things; since, bound by their own lust, they cannot be converted. "As 
Sodom and Gomorrha," he says. . . . By which the Lord signifies that pardon had 
been granted; and that on being disciplined they had repented. "Similarly to the 
same," he says, "also those dreamers,"--that is, who dream in their imagination 
lusts and wicked desires, regarding as good not that which is truly good, and 
superior to all good,--defile the flesh, despise dominion, and speak evil of 
majesty," that is, the only Lord, who is truly our Lord, Jesus Christ, and alone 
worthy of praise. They "speak evil of majesty," that is, of the angels. 
"When Michael, the archangel, disputing with the devil, debated about the 
body of Moses." Here he confirms the assumption of Moses. He is here called 
Michael, who through an angel near to us debated with the devil. 
"But these," he says, "speak evil of those things which they know not; but 
what they know naturally, as brute beasts, in these things they corrupt 
themselves." He means that they eat, and drink, and indulge in uncleanness, and 
says that they do other things that are common to them with animals, devoid of 
reason. 
"Woe unto them!" he says, "for they have gone in the way of Cain." For so 
also we lie under Adam's sin through similarity of sin. "Clouds," he says, 
"without water; who do not possess in themselves the divine and fruitful word." 
Wherefore, he says, "men of this kind are carried about both by winds and 
violent blasts." "Trees," he says, "of autumn, without fruit,"--unbelievers, 
that is, who bear no fruit of fidelity. "Twice dead," he says: once, namely, 
when they sinned by transgressing, and a second time when delivered up to 
punishment, according to the predestined judgments of God; inasmuch as it is to 
be reckoned death, even when each one does not forthwith deserve the 
inheritance. "Waves," he says, "of a raging sea." By these words he signifies 
the life of the Gentiles, whose end is abominable ambition. "Wandering 
stars,"--that is, he means those who err and are apostates are of that kind of 
stars which fell from the seats of the angels-" to whom," for their apostasy, 
"the blackness of darkness is reserved for ever. 
Enoch also, the seventh from Adam," he says, "prophesied of these." In these 
words he verities the prophecy. 
"Those," he says, "separating" the faithful from the unfaithful, be convicted 
according to their own unbelief. And again those separating from the flesh. He 
says, "Animal not having the spirit;" that is, the spirit which is by faith, 
which supervenes through the practice of righteousness. 
"But ye, beloved," he says, "building up yourselves on your most holy faith, 
in the Holy Spirit." "But some," he says, "save, plucking them from the fire; " 
"but of some have compassion in fear," that is, teach those who fall into the 
fire to free themselves. "Hating," he says, "that spotted garment, which is 
carnal:" that of the soul, namely; the spotted garment is a spirit polluternal 
lusts. 
"Now to Him," he says, "who is able to keep you without stumbling, and 
present you faultless before the presence of His glory in joy." In the presence 
of His glory: he means in the presence of the angels, to be presented faultless 
having become angels. When Daniel speaks of the people and comes into the 
presence of the Lord, he does not say this, because he saw God: for it is 
impossible that any one whose heart is not pure should see God; but he says 
this, that everything that the people did was in the sight of God, and was 
manifest to Him; that is, that nothing is hid from the Lord. 
Now, in the Gospel according to Mark, the Lord being interrogated by the 
chief of the priests if He was the Christ, the Son of the blessed God, 
answering, said, "I am; and ye shall see the Son of man sitting at the right 
hand of power. But powers mean the holy angels. Further, when He says "at the 
right hand of God," He means the self-same [beings], by reason of the equality 
and likeness of the angelic and holy powers, which are called by the name of 
God. He says, therefore, that He sits at the right hand; that is, that He rests 
in pre-eminent honour. In the other Gospels, however, He is said not to have 
replied to the high priest, on his asking if He was the Son of God. But what 
said He? "You say." Answering sufficiently well. For had He said, It is as you 
understand, he would have said what was not true, not confessing Himself to be 
the Son of God; [for] they did not entertain this opinion of Him; but by saying 
"You say," He spake truly. For what they had no knowledge of, but expressed in 
words, that he confessed to be true. 
III.--COMMENTS ON THE FIRST EPISTLE OF JOHN. 
Chap. i. I. "That which was from the beginning; which we have seen with our 
eyes; which we have heard." 
Following the Gospel according to John, and in accordance with it, this 
Epistle also contains the spiritual principle. 
What therefore he says, "from the beginning," the Presbyter explained to this 
effect, that the beginning of generation is not separated from the beginning of 
the Creator. For when he says, "That which was from the beginning," he touches 
upon the generation without beginning of the Son, who is co-existent with the 
Father. There was; then, a Word importing an unbeginning eternity; as also the 
Word itself, that is, the Son of God, who being, by equality of substance, one 
with the Father, is eternal and uncreate. That He was always the Word, is 
signified by saying, "In the beginning was the Word." But by the expression, "we 
have seen with our eyes," he signifies the Lord's presence in the flesh, "and 
our hands have handled," he says, "of the Word of life." He means not only His 
flesh, but the virtues of the Son, like the sunbeam which penetrates to the 
lowest places,--this sunbeam coming in the flesh became palpable to the 
disciples. It is accordingly related in traditions, that John, touching the 
outward body itself, sent his hand deep down into it, and that the solidity of 
the flesh offered no obstacle, but gave way to the hand of the disciple. 
"And our hands have handled of the Word of life;" that is, He who came in the 
flesh became capable of being touched. As also, Ver. 2. "The life was 
manifested." For in the Gospel he thus speaks: "And what was made, in Him was 
life, and the life was the light of men." 
"And we show unto you that eternal life, which was with the Father, and was 
manifested unto you." 
He signifies by the appellation of Father, that the Son also existed always, 
without beginning. Ver. 5. "For God," he says, "is light." 
He does not express the divine essence, but wishing to declare the majesty of 
God, he has applied to the Divinity what is best and most excellent in the view 
of men. Thus also Patti, when he speaks of "light inaccessible." But John 
himself also in this same Epistle says, "God is love:" pointing out the 
excellences of God, that He is kind and merciful;and because He is light, makes 
men righteous, according to the advancement of the soul, through charity. God, 
then, who is ineffable in respect of His substance, is light. 
"And in Him is no darkness at all,"--that is, no passion, no keeping up of 
evil respecting any one, destroys no one but gives salvation to all. Light 
moreover signifies, either the precepts of the Law, or faith, or doctrine. 
Darkness is the opposite of these things. Not as if there were another way; 
since there is only one way according to the divine precepts. For the work of 
God is unity. Duality and all else that exists, except unity, arises from 
perversity of life. 
Ver. 7. "And the blood of Jesus Christ His Son," he says, "cleanses us." For 
the doctrine of the Lord, which is very powerful, is called His blood. 
Ver. 10. "If we say that we have not sinned, we make Him a liar, and His word 
is not in us." His doctrine, that is, or word is truth. 
Chap. ii. I. "And if any man sin," he says, "we have an advocate with the 
Father, Jesus Christ." For so the Lord is an advocate with the Father for us. So 
also is there, an advocate, whom, after His assumption, He vouchsafed to send. 
For these primitive and first-created virtues are unchangeable as to substance, 
and along with subordinate angels and archangels, whose names they share, effect 
divine operations. Thus also Moses names the virtue of the angel Michael, by an 
angel near to himself and of lowest grade. The like also we find in the holy 
prophets; but to Moses an angel appeared near and at hand. 
Moses heard him and spoke to him manifestly, face to face. On the other 
prophets, through the agency of angels, an impression was made, as of beings 
hearing and seeing. 
On this account also, they alone heard, and they alone saw; as also is seen 
in the case of Samuel. Elisaeus also alone heard the voice by which he was 
called. If the voice had been open and common, it would have been heard by all. 
In this instance it was heard by him alone in whom the impression made by the 
angel worked. 
Ver. 2. "And not only for our sins,"--that is for those of the faithful,--is 
the Lord the propitiator, does he say, "but also for the whole world." He, 
indeed, saves all; but some [He saves], converting them by punishments; others, 
however, who follow voluntarily [He saves] with dignity of honour; so "that 
every knee should bow to Him, of things in heaven, and things on earth, and 
things under the earth;" that is, angels, men, and souls that before His advent 
have departed from this temporal life. 
Ver. 3. "And by this we know that we know Him, if we keep His commandments." 
For the Gnostic [he who knows also does the Works which pertain to the province 
of virtue. But he who performs the works is not necessarily also a Gnostic. For 
a man may be a doer of right works, and yet not a knower of the mysteries of 
science. Finally, knowing that some works are performed from fear of punishment, 
and some on account of the promise of reward, he shows the perfection of the man 
gifted with knowledge, who fulfils his works by love. Further, he adds, and 
says:-- Ver. 5. "But whoso keepeth His word, in him verily is the love of God 
perfected: hereby know we that we are in Him,"--by faith and love. 
Ver. 7. "I write no new commandment unto you, but an old commandment, which 
ye had from the beginning,"--through the Law, that is, and the prophets; where 
it is said, God is one. Accordingly, also, he infers, "For the old commandment 
is the word which ye have heard." Again, however, he says:- Ver. 8. "This is the 
commandment; for the darkness" of perversion, that is, "has passed away, and, 
lo, the true light hath already shone,"--that is, through "faith", through 
knowledge, through the Covenant working in men, through prepared judgments. 
Ver. 9. "He that saith he is in the light," -in the light, he means in the 
truth,--" and hateth," he says, "his brother." By his brother, he means not only 
his neighbour, but also the Lord. For unbelievers hate Him and do not keep His 
commandments. Therefore also he infers:- Ver. 10. "He that loveth his brother 
abideth in the light; and there is none occasion of stumbling in him." 
Vers. 12-14. He then indicates the stages of advancement and progress of 
souls that are still located in the flesh; and calls those whose sins have been 
forgiven, for the. Lord's name's sake, "little children," for many believe on 
account of the name only. He styles "fathers" the perfect, "who have known what 
was from the beginning," and received with understanding, -the Son, that is, of 
whom he said above, "that which was from the beginning." 
"I write," says he, "to you, young men, because ye have overcome the wicked 
one." Young man strong in despising pleasures. "The wicked one" points out the 
eminence of the devil. "The children," moreover, know the Father; having fled 
from idols and gathered together to the one God. 
Ver. 15. "For the world," he says, "is in the wicked one." Is not the world, 
and all that is in the. world, called God's creation and very good? Yes. But, 
Ver. 16. "The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the ambition of the 
world," which arise from the perversion of life, "are not of the Father, but of 
the world," and of you. 
Ver. 17. "Therefore also the world shall pass away, and the lust thereof; but 
he that doeth the will of God" and His commandments "abideth for ever." 
Ver. 19. "They went out from us; but they were not of us "--neither the 
apostate angels, nor men falling away;--" but that they may be manifested that 
they are not of us." With sufficient clearness he distinguishes the class of the 
elect and that of the lost, and that which remaining in faith "has an unction 
from the Holy One," which comes through faith. He that abideth not in faith. 
Ver. 22. "A liar" and "an antichrist, who denieth that Jesus is the Christ." 
For Jesus, Saviour and Redeemer, is also Christ the King. 
Ver. 23. "He who denies the Son," by ignoring Him, "has not the Father, nor 
does he know Him." But he who knoweth the Son and the Father, knows according to 
knowledge, and when the Lord shall be manifested at His second advent, shall 
have confidence and not be confounded. Which confusion is heavy punishment. 
Ver. 29. "Every one," he says, "who doeth righteousness is born of God;" 
being regenerated, that is, according to faith. 
Chap. iii. I. "For the world knoweth us not, as it knew Him not." He means by 
the world those who live a worldly life in pleasures. 
Ver. 2. "Beloved," says he, "now are we the sons of God," not by natural 
affection, but because we have God as our Father. For it is the greater love 
that, seeing we have no relationship to God, He nevertheless loves us and calls 
us His sons. "And it hath not yet appeared what we shall be;" that is, to what 
kind of glory we shall attain. "For if He shall be manifested,"--that is, if we 
are made perfect,--"we shall be like Him," as reposing and justified, pure in 
virtue, "so that we may see Him" (His countenance) "as He is," by comprehension. 

Ver. 8. "He that doeth unrighteousness is of the devil," that is, of the 
devil as his father, following and choosing the same things. "The devil sinneth 
from the beginning," he says. From the beginning from which he began to sin, 
incorrigibly persevering in sinning. 
Ver. 9. He says, "Whosoever is born of God does not commit sin, for His seed 
remaineth in him;" that is, His word in him who is born again through faith. 
Ver. 10. "Thus we know the children of God, as likewise the children of the 
devil," who choose things like the devil; for so also they are said to be of the 
wicked one. 
Ver. 15. "Every one who hateth his brother is a murderer." For in him through 
unbelief Christ dies. Rightly, therefore, he continues, "And ye know that no 
murderer and unbeliever hath eternal life abiding in him." For the living Christ 
abides in the believing soul. 
Ver. 16. "For He Himself laid down His life for us;" that is, for those who 
believe; that is, for the apostles. If then He laid down His life for the 
apostles, he means His apostles themselves: us if he said, We, I say, the 
apostles, for whom He laid down His life, "ought to lay down our lives for the 
brethren;" for the salvation of their neighbours was the glory of the apostles. 
Ver. 20. He says, "For God is greater than our heart;" that is, the virtue of 
God [is greater] than conscience, which will follow the soul. Wherefore he 
continues, and says, "and knoweth all things." 
Ver. 21. "Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, it will have confidence 
before God." 
Ver. 24. "And hereby we know that He dwelleth in us by His Spirit, which He 
hath given us;" that is, by superintendence and foresight of future events. 
Chap. iv. 18. He says, "Perfect love casteth out fear." For the perfection of 
a believing man is love. 
Chap. v. 6. He says, "This is He who came by water and blood;" and again,- 
Ver. 8. "For there are three that bear witness, the spirit," which is life, "and 
the water," which is regeneration and faith, "and the blood," which is 
knowledge; "and these three are one." For in the Saviour are those saving 
virtues, and life itself exists in His own Son. 
Ver. 54. "And this is the confidence which we have towards Him, that if we 
ask anything according to His will, He will hear us." He does not say absolutely 
what we shall ask, but what we ought to ask. 
Ver. 19 "And the whole word lieth in the wicked one;" not the creation, but 
worldly men, and those who live according to their lusts. 
Ver. 20. "And the Son of God hath come and given us understanding," which 
comes to us, that is, by faith, and is also called the Holy Spirit. 
IV.--COMMENTS ON THE SECOND EPISTLE OF JOHN. 
The second Epistle of John, which is written to Virgins, is very simple. It 
was written to a Babylonian lady, by name Electa, and indicates the election of 
the holy Church. He establishes in this Epistle that the following out of the 
faith is not without charity, and so that no one divide Jesus Christ; but only 
to believe that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh. For he who has the Son by 
apprehension in his intellect knows also the Father, and grasps with his mind 
intelligibly the greatness of His power working without beginning of time. 
Ver. 10. He says, "If any come unto you and bring not this doctrine, receive 
him not into your house, neither bid him God speed; for he that biddeth him God 
speed is partaker of his evil deeds." He forbids us to salute such, and to 
receive them to our hospitality. For this is not harsh in the case of a man of 
this sort. But he admonishes them neither to confer nor dispute with such as are 
not able to handle divine things with intelligence, lest through them they be 
seduced from the doctrine of truth, influenced by plausible reasons. Now, I 
think that we are not even to pray with such, because in the prayer which is 
made at home, after rising from prayer, the salutation of joy is also the token 
of peace. 
II.--NICETAS BISHOP OF HERACLEA. 
FROM HIS CATENA. 
I.--JOB I. 21. 
But Job's words may be more elegantly understood of evil and sin thus: 
"Naked" was formed from the earth at the beginning, as if from a "mother's womb: 
naked to the earth shall I also depart;" naked, not of possessions, for that 
were a trivial and common thing, but of evil and sin, and of the unsightly shape 
which follows those who have led bad lives. Obviously, all of us human beings 
are born naked, and again are buried naked, swathed only in grave-clothes. For 
God hath provided for us another life, and made the present life the way for the 
course which leads to it; appointing the supplies derived from what we possess 
merely as provisions for the way; and on our quitting this way, the wealth, 
consisting of the things which we possessed, journeys no farther with us. For 
not a single thing that we possess is properly our own: of one possession alone, 
that is godliness, are we properly owners. Of this, death, when it overtakes us, 
will not rob us; but from all else it will eject us, though against our will. 
For it is for the support of life that we all have received what we possess; and 
after enjoying merely the use of it, each one departs, obtaining from life a 
brief remembrance. For this is the end of all prosperity; this is the conclusion 
of the good things of this life. Well, then, does the infant, on opening its 
eyes, after issuing from the womb, immediately begin with crying, not with 
laughter. For it weeps, as if bewailing life, at whose hands from the outset it 
tastes of deadly gifts. For immediately on being bern its hands and feet are 
swaddled; and swathed in bonds it takes the breast. O introduction to life, 
precursor of death! The child has but just entered on life, and straightway 
there is put upon it the raiment of the dead: for nature reminds those that are 
born of their end. Wherefore also the child, on being born, wails, as if crying 
plaintively to its mother. Why, O mother, didst thou bring me forth to this 
life, in which prolongation of life is progress to death? Why hast thou brought 
me into this troubled world, in which, on being born, swaddling bands are my 
first experience? Why hast thou delivered me to such a life as this, in which 
both a pitiable youth wastes away before old age, and old age is shunned as 
under the doom of death? Dreadful, O mother, is the course of life, which has 
death as the goal of the runner. Bitter is the road of life we travel, with the 
grave as the wayfarer's inn. Perilous the sea of life we sail; for it has Hades 
as a pirate to attack us. Man alone is born in all respects naked, without a 
weapon or clothing born with him; not as being inferior to the other animals, 
but that nakedness and your bringing nothing with you may produce thought; and 
that thought may bring out dexterity, expel sloth, introduce the arts for the 
supply of our needs, and beget variety of contrivances. For, naked, man is full 
of contrivances, being pricked on by his necessity, as by a goad, how to escape 
rains, how to elude cold, how to fence off blows, how to till the earth, how to 
terrify wild beasts; how to subdue the more powerful of them. Wetted with rain, 
he contrived a roof; having suffered from cold, he invented clothing; being 
struck, he constructed a breastplate; bleeding his hands with the thorns in 
tilling the ground, he availed himself of the help of tools; in his naked state 
liable to become a prey to wild beasts, he discovered from his fear an art which 
frightened what frightened him. Nakedness begat one accomplishment after 
another; so that even his nakedness was a gift and a master-favour. Accordingly, 
Job also being made naked of wealth, possessions, of the blessing of children, 
of a numerous offspring, and having lost everything in a short time, uttered 
this grateful exclamation: "Naked came I out of the womb, naked also shall I 
depart thither;"--to God, that is, and to that blessed lot and rest. 
II.- FROM THE SAME. 
Job xxxiv. 7. Calmness is a thing which, of all other things, is most to be 
prized. As an exam ple of this, the word proposes to us the blessed Job. For it 
is said of him, "What man is like Job, who drinketh up scorning like water?" For 
truly enviable, and, in my judgment, worthy of all admiration, a man is, if he 
has attained to such a degree of long-suffering as to be able with ease to 
grapple with the pain, truly keen, and not easily conquered by everybody, which 
arises from being wronged. 
III.--FROM NICETAS CATENA ON MATTHEW. 
Matt. v. 42. Alms are to be given, but with judgment, and to the deserving, 
that we may Obtain a recompense from the Most High. But woe to those who have 
and who take under false pretences, or who are able to help themselves and want 
to take from others. For he who has, and, to carry out false pretences or out of 
laziness, takes, shall be condemned. 
IV.--FROM THE SAME. 
Matt xiii. 31, 32. The word which proclaims the kingdom of heaven is sharp 
and pungent as mustard, and represses bile, that is, anger, and checks 
inflammation, that is, pride; and from this word the soul's true health and 
eternal soundness flow. To such increased size did the growth of the word come, 
that the tree which sprang from it (that is the Church of Christ established 
over the whole earth) filled the world, so that the fowls of the air--that is, 
divine angels and lofty souls--dwelt in its branches. 
V.--FROM THE SAME. 
Matt. xiii. 46. A pearl, and that pellucid and of purest ray, is Jesus, whom 
of the lightning flash of Divinity the Virgin bore. For as the pearl, produced 
in flesh and the oyster-shell and moisture, appears to be a body moist and 
transparent, full of light and spirit; so also God the Word, incarnate, is 
intellectual light, sending His rays, through a body luminous and moist. 
III.--FROM THE CATENA ON LUKE, EDITED BY CORDERIUS. 
Luke iii. 22. God here assumed the "likeness" not of a man, but "of a dove," 
because He wished, by a new apparition of the Spirit in the likeness of a dove, 
to declare His simplicity and majesty. 
Luke xvi. 17. Perhaps by the iota and tittle His righteousness cries, "If ye 
come right unto Me, I will also come right to you; but if crooked, I also will 
come crooked, saith the Lord of hosts;" intimating that the ways of sinners are 
intricate and crooked. For the way right and agreeable to nature which is 
intimated by the iota of Jesus, is His goodness, which constantly directs those 
who believe from hearing, "There shall not, therefore, pass from the law one 
iota or one tittle," neither from the right and good the mutual promises, nor 
from the crooked and unjust the punishment assigned to them. "For the Lord doeth 
good to the good, but those who turn aside into crooked ways God will lead with 
the workers. of iniquity." 
IV.--FROM THE BOOKS OF THE HYPOTYPOSES. 
OECUMENIUS FROM BOOK III. ON I COR. XI. 10. 
"Because of the angels." By the angels he means righteous and virtuous men. 
Let her be veiled then, that she may not lead them to stumble into fornication. 
For the real angels in heaven see her though veiled. 
THE SAME, BOOK IV. ON 2 COR. V. 16. 
"And if we have known Christ after the flesh." As "after the flesh" in our 
case is being in the midst of sins, and being out of them is "not after the 
flesh;" so also" after the flesh" in the case of Christ was His subjection to 
natural affections, and His not being subject to them is to be "not after the 
flesh." But, he says, as He was released, so also are we. 
THE SAME, BOOK IV. ON 2 COR. VI. 11. 
"Our heart is enlarged," to teach you all things. But ye are straitened in 
your own bowels, that is, in love to God, in which ye ought to love me. 
THE SAME, BOOK V. ON GAL. V. 24. 
"And they that are Christ's [have crucified] the flesh." And why mention one 
aspect of virtue after another? For there are some who have crucified themselves 
as far as the passions are concerned, and the passions as far as respects 
themselves. According to this interpretation the "and" is not superfluous. "And 
they that are Christ's"--that is, striving after Him -"have crucified their own 
flesh." 
MOSCHUS: SPIRITUAL MEADOW, BOOK V. CHAP. 176. 
Yes, truly, the apostles were baptised, as Clement the Stromatist relates in 
the fifth book of the Hypotyposes. For, in explaining the apostolic statement, 
"I thank God that I baptised none of you," he says, Christ is said to have 
baptised Peter alone, and Peter Andrew, and Andrew John, and they James and the 
rest. 

EUSEBIUS: ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY, BOOK VI. ii. X. 
Now Clement, writing in the sixth book of the Hypotyposes, makes this 
statement. For he says that Peter and James and John, after the Saviour's 
ascension, though pre-eminently honoured by the Lord, did not contend for glory, 
but made James the Just, bishop of Jerusalem. 
EUSEBIUS: ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY, II. 15. 
So, then, through the visit of the divine word to them, the power of Simon 
was extinguished, and immediately was destroyed along with the man himself. And 
such a ray of godliness shone forth on the minds of Peter's hearers, that they 
were not satisfied with the once hearing or with the unwritten teaching of the 
divine proclamation, but with all manner of entreaties importuned Mark, to whom 
the Gospel is ascribed, he being the companion of Peter, that he would leave in 
writing a record of the teaching which had been delivered to them verbally; and 
did not let the man alone till they prevailed upon him; and so to them we owe 
the Scripture called the "Gospel by Mark." On learning what had been done, 
through the revelation of the Spirit, it is said that the apostle was delighted 
with the enthusiasm of the men, and sanctioned the composition for reading in 
the Churches. Clemens gives the narrative in the sixth book of the Hypotyposes. 
EUSEBIUS: IBID. 
Then, also, as the divine Scripture says, Herod, on the execution of James, 
seeing that what was done pleased the Jews, laid hands also on Peter; and having 
put him in chains, would have presently put him to death, had not an angel in a 
divine vision appeared to him by night, and wondrously releasing him from his 
bonds, sent him away to the ministry of preaching. 
EUSEBIUS: ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY, VI. 14. 
And in the Hypotyposes, in a word, he has made abbreviated narratives of the 
whole testamentary Scripture; and has not passed over the disputed books,--I 
mean Jude and the rest of the Catholic Epistles and Barnabas, and what is called 
the Revelation of Peter. And he says that the Epistle to the Hebrews is Paul's, 
and was written to the Hebrews in the Hebrew language; but that Luke, having 
carefully translated it, gave it to the Greeks, and hence the same colouring in 
the expression is discoverable in this Epistle and the Acts; and that the name 
"Paul an Apostle" was very properly not pre-fixed, for, he says, that writing to 
the Hebrews, who were prejudiced against him and suspected, he with great wisdom 
did not repel them in the beginning by putting down his name. 
EUSEBIUS: BOOK VII. 
I Tim. ii. 6. "In his times;" that is, when men were in a condition of 
fitness for faith. 
I Tim. iii. 16. "Was seen of angels." O mystery! The angels saw Christ while 
He was with us, not having seen Him before. Not as by men. 
I Tim. v. 8. "And especially those of his own house." He provides for his own 
and those of his own house, who not only provides for his relatives, but also 
for himself, by extirpating the passions. 
I Tim. v. 10. "If she have washed the feet of saints;" that is, if she has 
performed without shame the meanest offices for the saints. 
I Tim. v. 21. "Without prejudice;" that is, without falling under the doom 
and punishment of disobedience through making any false step. 
I Tim. vi. 13. "Who witnessed before Pontius Pilate." For He testified by 
what he did that He was Christ the Son of God. 
2 Tim. ii. 2. "By many witnesses;" that is, the law and the prophets. For 
these the apostle made witnesses of his own preaching. 
EUSEBIUS: ECCLESIASTCAL HISTORY, BOOK. VII. ii. 1. 
To James the Just, and John and Peter, the Lord after His resurrection 
imparted knowledge (thn gnwsin.) These imparted it to the rest of 
the apostles, and the rest of the apostles to the Seventy, of whom Barnabas was 
one. 
EUSEBIUS: THE SAME, II. 2. 
And of this James, Clement also relates an anecdote worthy of remembrance in 
the seventh book of the Hypotyposes, from a tradition of his predecessors. He 
says that the man who brought him to trial, on seeing him bear his testimony, 
was moved, and confessed that he was a Christian himself. Accordingly, he says, 
they were both led away together, and on the way the other asked James to 
forgive him. And he, considering a little, said, "Peace be to thee" and kissed 
him. And so both were beheaded together. 
EUSEBIUS: THE SAME, VI. 14. 
And now, as the blessed Presbyter used to say, since the Lord, as the Apostle 
of the Almighty, was sent to the Hebrews, Paul, as having been sent to the 
Gentiles, did not subscribe himself apostle of the Hebrews, out of modesty and 
reverence for the Lord, and because, being the herald and apostle of the 
Gentiles, his writing to the Hebrews was something over and above [his assigned 
function.] 

EUSEBIUS: THE SAME. 
Again, in the same books Clement has set down a tradition which he had 
received from the elders before him, in regard to the order of the Gospels, to 
the following effect. He says that the Gospels containing the genealogies were 
written first, and that the Gospel according to Mark was composed in the 
following circumstances:- Peter having preached the word publicly at Rome, and 
by the Spirit proclaimed the Gospel, those who were present, who were numerous, 
entreated Mark, inasmuch as he had attended him from an early period, and 
remembered what had been said, to write down what had been spoken. On his 
composing the Gospel, he handed it to those who had made the request to him; 
which coming to Peter's knowledge, he neither hindered nor encouraged. But John, 
the last of all, seeing that what was corporeal was set forth in the Gospels, on 
the entreaty of his intimate friends, and inspired by the Spirit, composed a 
spiritual Gospel. 
V.--FROM THE BOOK ON PROVIDENCE. 
S. MAXIMUS, VOL. II. 114. 
Being is in God. God is divine being, eternal and without beginning, 
incorporeal and illimitable, and the cause of what exists. Being is that which 
wholly subsists. Nature is the truth of things, or the inner reality of them. 
According to others, it is the production of what has come to existence; and 
according to others, again, it is the providence of God, causing the being, and 
the manner of being, in the things which are produced. 
S. MAXIMUS: IN THE SAME, P. 152. 
Willing is a natural power, which desires what is in accordance with nature. 
Willing is a natural appetency, corresponding with the nature of the rational 
creature. Willing is a natural spontaneous movement of the self-determining 
mind, or the mind voluntarily moved about anything. Spontaneity is the mind 
moved naturally, or an intellectual self-determining movement of the soul. 
VI.--FROM THE BOOK ON THE SOUL. 
MAXIMUS AND ANTONIUS MELISSA. 
Souls that breathe free of all things, possess life, and though separated 
from the body, and found possessed of a longing for it, are borne immortal to 
the bosom of God: as in the winter season the vapours of the earth attracted by 
the sun's rays rise to him. 
THE BAROCC. MS. 
All souls are immortal, even those of the wicked, for whom it were better 
that they were not deathless. For, punished with the endless vengeance of 
quenchless fire, and not dying, it is impossible for them to have a, period put 
to their misery. 
VII.--FRAGMENT FROM THE BOOK ON SLANDER. 
ANTONIUS MELISSA, BOOK. II. SERMON 69. 
Never be afraid of the slanderer who addresses you. But rather say, Stop, 
brother; I daily commit more grievous errors, and how can I judge him? For you 
will gain two things, healing with one plaster both yourself and your neighbour. 
He shows what is really evil. Whence, by these arguments, God has contrived to 
make each one's disposition manifest. 
ANTONIUS MELISSA, BOOK I. SERMON 64, AND BOOK II. SERMON 87. ALSO MAXIMUS, 
SERMON 59, P. 669; JOHN OF DAMASCUS, BOOK II. 
It is not abstaining from deeds that justifies the believer, but purity and 
sincerity of thoughts. 
VIII.--OTHER FRAGMENTS FROM ANTONIUS MELISSA. 
I.--BOOK I. SERMON 17, ON CONFESSION. 
Repentance then becomes capable of wiping out every sin, when on the 
occurrence of the soul's fault it admits no delay, and does not let the impulse 
pass on to a long space of time. For it is in this way that evil will be unable 
to leave a trace in us, being plucked away at the moment of its assault like a 
newly planted plant. 
As the creatures called crabs are easy to catch, from their going sometimes 
forward and sometimes backward; so also the soul, which at one time is laughing, 
at another weeping, and at another giving way to luxury, can do no good. 
He who is sometimes grieving, and is sometimes enjoying himself and laughing, 
is like a man pelting the dog of voluptuousness with bread, who chases it in 
appearance, but in fact invites it to remain near him. 
2. BOOK I. SERMON 51, ON PRAISE. 
Some flatterers were congratulating a wise man. He said to them, If you stop 
praising me, I think myself something great after your departure; but if you do 
not stop praising me, I guess my own impurity. 
Feigned praise is worth less than true censure. 

3. BOOK II. SERMON 46, ON THE LAZY AND INDOLENT. 
To the weak and infirm, what is moderate appears excessive. 
4.BOOK II. SERMON 55, ON YOUR NEIGHBOUR--THAT YOU ARE TO BEAR HIS BURDENS, 
ETC. 
The reproof that is given with knowledge is very faithful. Sometimes also the 
knowledge of those who are condemned is found to be the most perfect 
demonstration. 
5. BOOK IL SERMON 74, ON THE PROUD, AND THOSE DESIROUS OF VAINGLORY. 
To the man who exalts and magnifies himself is attached the quick transition 
and the fall to low estate, as the divine word teaches. 
6. BOOK II. SERMON 87. 
Pure speech and a spotless life are the throne and true temple of God. 
IX.--FRAGMENT OF THE TREATISE ON MARRIAGE. 
MAXIMUS, SERMON III. P. 538, ON MODESTY AND CHASTITY. ALSO, JOHN OF DAMASCUS, 
BOOK III.--PARALLEL CHAP. 27. 
It is not only fornication, but also the giving in marriage prematurely, that 
is called fornication; when, so to speak, one not of ripe age is given to a 
husband, either of her own accord or by her parents. 
X.--FRAGMENTS OF OTHER LOST BOOKS. 
MAXIMUS, SERMON 2.--JOHN OF DAMASCUS, II. CHAP. 70.--ANTONIUS MELISSA, BOOK 
I. SERMON 52. 
Flattery is the bane of friendship. Most men are accustomed to pay court to 
the good fortune of princes, rather than to the princes themselves. 
MAXIMUS, SERMON 13, P. 574.--ANTONIUS MELISSA, SERMON 32, P. 45, AND SERMON 
33, P. 57. 
The lovers of frugality shun luxury as the bane of soul and body. The 
possession and use of necessaries has nothing injurious in quality, but it has 
in quantity above measure. Scarcity of food is a necessary benefit. 
MAXIMUS, SERMON 52, P. 654.--ANTONIUS MELISSA, BOOK I. SERMON 54. 
The vivid remembrance of death is a check upon diet; and when the diet is 
lessened, the passions are diminished along with it. 
MAXIMUS, SERMON 55, P. 661. 
Above all, Christians are not allowed to correct with violence the 
delinquencies of sins. For it is not those that abstain from wickedness from 
compulsion, but those that abstain from choice, that God crowns. It is 
impossible for a man to be steadily good except by his own choice. For he that 
is made good by compulsion of another is not good; for he is not what he is by 
his own choice. For it is the freedom of each one that makes true goodness and 
reveals real wickedness. Whence through these dispositions God contrived to make 
His own disposition manifest. 
XI.--FRAGMENTS FOUND IN GREEK ONLY IN THE OXFORD EDITION. 
FROM THE LAST WORK ON THE PASSOVER. 
Quoted in the Paschal Chronicle. 
Accordingly, in the years gone by, Jesus went to eat the passover sacrificed 
by the Jews, keeping the feast. But when he had preached He who was the 
Passover, the Lamb of God, led as a sheep to the slaughter, presently taught His 
disciples the mystery of the type on the thirteenth day, on which also they 
inquired, "Where wilt Thou that we prepare for Thee to eat the passover?" It was 
on this day, then, that both the consecration of the unleavened bread and the 
preparation for the feast took place. Whence John naturally describes the 
disciples as already previously prepared to have their feet washed by the Lord. 
And on the following day our Saviour suffered, He who was the Passover, 
propitiously sacrificed by the Jews. 
THE SAME. 
Suitably, therefore, to the fourteenth day, on which He also suffered, in the 
morning, the chief priests and the scribes, who brought Him to Pilate, did not 
enter the Praetorium, that they might not be defiled, but might freely eat the 
passover in the evening. With this precise determination of the days both the 
whole Scriptures agree, and the Gospels harmonize. The resurrection also attests 
it. He certainly rose on the third day, which fell on the first day of the weeks 
of harvest, on which the law prescribed that the priest should offer up the 
sheaf. 
MACARIUS CHRYSOCEPHALUS: PARABLE OF THE PRODIGAL SON, LUKE XV. ORATION ON 
LUKE XV., TOWARDS THE CLOSE. 
1. What choral dance and high festival is held in heaven, if there is one 
that has become an exile and a fugitive from the life led under the Father, 
knowing not that those who put them selves far from Him shall perish; if he has 
squandered the gift, and substance, and inheritance of the Father; if there is 
one whose faith has failed, and whose hope is spent, by rushing along with the 
Gentiles into the same profligacy of debauchery; and then, famished and 
destitute, and not even filled with what the swine eat, has arisen and come to 
his Father! 
But the kind Father waits not till the son comes to Him. For perchance he 
would never be able or venture to approach, did he not find Him gracious. 
Wherefore, when he merely wishing, when he straightway made a beginning, when he 
took the first step, while he was yet a great way off, He [the Father] was moved 
with compassion, and ran, and fell upon his neck and kissed him. And then the 
son, taking courage, confessed what he had done. 
Wherefore the Father bestows on him the glory and honour that was due and 
meet, putting on him the best robe, the robe of immortality; and a ring, a royal 
signet and divine seal,--impress of consecration, signature of glory, pledge of 
testimony (for it is said, "He hath set to his seal that God is true,") and 
shoes, not those perishable ones which he hath set his foot on holy ground is 
bidden take off, nor such as he who is sent to preach the kingdom of heaven is 
forbidden to put on, but such as wear not, and ate suited for the journey to 
heaven, becoming and adorning the heavenly path, such as unwashed feet never put 
on, but those which are washed by our Teacher and Lord. 
Many, truly, are the shoes of the sinful soul, by which it is bound and 
cramped. For each man is cramped by the cords of his own sins. Accordingly, 
Abraham swears to the king of Sodom, "I will not take of all that is thine, from 
a thread to a shoe-latchet." On account of these being defiled and polluted on 
the earth, every kind of wrong and selfishness engrosses life. As the Lord 
reproves Israel by Amos, saying, "For three iniquities of Israel, yea, for four, 
I will not turn him back; because they have given away the righteous for silver, 
and the needy for a pair of shoes, which tread upon the dust of the ground." 
2. Now the shoes which the Father bids the servant give to the repentant son 
who has be-taken himself to Him, do not impede or drag to the earth (for the 
earthly tabernacle weighs down the anxious mind); but they are buoyant, and 
ascending, and waft to heaven, and serve as such a ladder and chariot as he 
requires who has turned his mind towards the Father. For, beautiful after being 
first beautifully adorned with all these things without, he enters into the 
gladness within. For "Bring out" was said by Him who had first said, "While he 
was yet a great way off, he ran and fell upon his neck." For it is here that all 
the preparation for entrance to the marriage to which we are invited must be 
accomplished. He, then, who has been made ready to enter will say, "This my joy 
is fulfilled." But the unlovely and unsightly man will hear, "Friend, how camest 
thou in here, without having a wedding garment?" And the fat and unctuous 
food,--the delicacies abundant and sufficing of the blessed,--the fatted calf is 
killed; which is also again spoken of as a lamb (not literally); that no one may 
suppose it small; but it is the great and greatest. For not small is "the Lamb 
of God who taketh away the sin of the world," who "was led as a sheep to the 
slaughter," the sacrifice full of marrow, all whose fat, according to the sacred 
law, was the Lord's. For He was wholly devoted and consecrated to the Lord; so 
well grown, and to such excessive size, as to reach and extend over all, and to 
fill those who eat Him and feed upon Him. For He is both flesh and bread, and 
has given Himself as both to us to be eaten. 
To the sons, then, who come to Him, the Father gives the calf, and it is 
slain and eaten. But those who do not come to Him He pursues and disinherits, 
and is found to be a most powerful bull. Here, by reason of His size and 
prowess, it is said of Him, "His glory is as that of an unicorn." And the 
prophet Habakkuk sees Him bearing horns, and celebrates His defensive 
attitude--"horns in His hands." Wherefore the sign shows His power and 
authority,--horns that pierce on both sides, or rather, on all sides, and 
through everything. And those who eat are so strengthened, and retain such 
strength from the life-giving food in them, that they themselves are stronger 
than their enemies, and are all but armed with the horns of a bull; as it is 
said, "In thee shall we butt our enemies." 
3. Gladness there is, and music, and dances; although the eider son, who had 
ever been with and ever obedient to the Father, takes it ill, when he who never 
had himself been dissipated or profligate sees the guilty one made happy. 
Accordingly the Father calls him, saying, "Son, thou art ever with me." And 
what greater joy and feast and festivity can be than being continually with God, 
standing by His side and serving Him? "And all that is mine is thine." And 
blessed is the heir of God, for whom the 
Father holds possession,--the faithful, to whom the whole world of 
possessions belongs. 
"It was meet that we should be glad, and rejoice; for thy brother was dead, 
and is alive again." Kind Father, who givest all things life, and raisest the 
dead. "And was lost, and is found." And "blessed is the man whom Thou hast 
chosen and accepted," and whom having sought, Thou dost find. "Blessed are those 
whose iniquities are forgiven, whose sins are covered." It is for man to repent 
of sins; but let this be accompanied with a change that will not be checked. For 
he who does not act so shall be put to shame, because he has acted not with his 
whole heart, but in haste. 
And it is ours to flee to God. And let us endeavour after this ceaselessly 
and energetically. For He says, "Come unto Me, all ye that labour and are heavy 
laden, and I will give you rest." And prayer and confession with humility are 
voluntary acts. Wherefore it is enjoined, "First tell thy sins, that thou mayest 
be justified." What afterwards we shall obtain, and what we shall be, it is not 
for us to judge. 
4. Such is the strict meaning of the parable. The repentant son came to the 
pitying Father, never hoping for these things,--the best robe, and the ring, and 
the shoes,--or to taste the fatted calf, or to share in gladness, or enjoy music 
and dances; but he would have been contented with obtaining what in his own 
estimation he deemed himself worth. "Make me," he had made up his mind to say, 
"as one of thy hired servants." But when he saw the Father's welcome meeting 
him, he did not say this, but said what he had in his mind to say first, 
"Father, I have sinned against Heaven, and before thee." And so both his 
humility and his accusation became the cause of justification and glory. For the 
righteous man condemns himself in his first words. So also the publican departed 
justified rather than the Pharisee. The son, then, knew not either what he was 
to obtain, or how to take or use or put on himself the things given him; since 
he did not take the robe himself, and put; it on. But it is said, "Put it on 
him." He did not himself put the ring on his finger, but those who were bidden 
"Put a ring on his hand." Nor did he put the shoes on himself, but it was they 
who heard, "and shoes on his feet." 
And these things were perhaps incredible to him and to others, and unexpected 
before they took place; but gladly received and praised were the gifts with 
which he was presented. 
5. The parable exhibits this thought, that the exercise of the faculty of 
reason has been accorded to each man. Wherefore the prodigal is introduced, 
demanding from his father his portion, that is, of the state of mind, endowed by 
reason. For the possession of reason is granted to all, in order to the pursuit 
of what is good, and the avoidance of what is bad. But many who are furnished by 
God with this make a bad use of the knowledge that has been given them, and land 
in the profligacy of evil practices, and wickedly waste the substance of 
reason,--the eye on disgraceful sights, the tongue on blasphemous words, the 
smell on foetid licentious excesses of pleasures, the mouth on swinish gluttony, 
the hands on thefts, the feet on running into plots, the thoughts on impious 
counsels, the inclinations on indulgence on the love of ease, the mind on 
brutish pastime. They preserve nothing of the substance of reason unsquandered. 
Such an one, therefore, Christ represents in the parable,--as a rational 
creature, with his reason darkened, and asking from the Divine Being what is 
suitable to reason; then as obtaining from God, and making a wicked use of what 
had been given, and especially of the benefits of baptism, which had been 
vouchsafed to him; whence also He calls him a prodigal; and then, after the 
dissipation of what had been given him, and again his restoration by repentance, 
[He represents] the love of God shown to him. 
6. For He says, "Bring hither the fatted calf, kill it, and let us eat and be 
merry; for this my son"--a name of nearest relationship, and significative of 
what is given to the faithful--"was dead and lost,"--an expression of extremest 
alienation; for what is more alien to the living than the lost and dead? For 
neither can be possessed any more. But having from the nearest relationship 
fallen to extremest alienation, again by repentance he returned to near 
relationship. For it is said, "Put on him the best robe," which was his the 
moment he obtained baptism. I mean the glory of baptism, the remission of sins, 
and the communication of the other blessings, which he obtained immediately he 
had touched the font. 
"And put a ring on his hand." Here is the mystery of the Trinity; which is 
the seal impressed on those who believe. 
"And put shoes on his feet," for "the preparation of the Gospel of peace," 
and the whole course that leads to good actions. 
7. But whom Christ finds lost, after sin committed since baptism, those 
Novatus, enemy of God, resigns to destruction. Do not let us then reckon any 
fault if we repent; guarding against falling, let us, if we have fallen, retrace 
our steps. And while dreading to offend, let us, after offend ing, avoid 
despair, and be eager to be confirmed; and on sinking, let us haste to rise up 
again. Let us obey the Lord, who calls to us, "Come unto Me, all ye that labour, 
and I will give you rest." Let us employ the gift of reason for actions of 
prudence. Let us learn now abstinence from what is wicked, that we may not be 
forced to learn in the future. Let us employ life as a training school for what 
is good; and let us be roused to the hatred of sin. Let us bear about a deep 
love for the Creator; let us cleave to Him with our whole heart; let us not 
wickedly waste the substance of reason, like the prodigal. Let us obtain the joy 
laid up, in which Paul exulting, exclaimed, "Who shall separate us from the love 
of Christ?" To Him belongs glory and honour, with the Father and the Holy 
Spirit, world without end. Amen. 
MACARIUS CHRYSOCEPHALUS: ORATION VIII. ON MATT. VIII., AND BOOK VII. ON LUKE 
XIII. 
Therefore God does not here take the semblance of man, but of a dove, because 
He wished to show the simplicity and gentleness of the new manifestation of the 
Spirit by the likeness of the dove. For the law was stem, and punished with the 
sword; but grace is joyous, and trains by the word of meekness. Hence the Lord 
also says to the apostles, who said that He should punish with fire those who 
would not receive Him, after the manner of Elias: 
"Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of." 
FROM THE SAME.--BOOK XIII. CHAP. IX. 
Possibly by the "iota and the tittle" His righteousness exclaims, "If ye come 
right to me, I also will come right to you; if ye walk crooked, I also will walk 
crooked, saith the Lord of hosts," alluding to the offences of sinners under the 
name of crooked ways. For the straight way, and that according to nature, which 
is pointed out by the iota of Jesus, is His goodness, which is immoveable 
towards those who have obediently believed. 
There shall not then pass away from the law neither the iota nor the tittle; 
that is, neither the promise that applies to the straight in the way, nor the 
punishment threatened against those that diverge. For the Lord is good to the 
straight in the way; but "those that turn aside after their crooked ways He 
shall lead forth with those that work iniquity." "And with the innocent He is 
innocent, and with the froward He is froward; " and to the crooked He sends 
crooked ways. 
His own luminous image God impressed as with a seal, even the greatest,--on 
man made in His likeness, that he might be ruler and lord over all things, and 
that all things might serve him. Wherefore God judges man to be wholly His, and 
His own image. He is invisible; but His image, man, is visible. Whatever one, 
then, does to man, whether good or bad, is referred to Himself. Wherefore from 
Him judgment shall proceed, appointing to all according to desert; for He will 
avenge His own image. 
XII.--FRAGMENTS NOT GIVEN IN THE OXFORD EDITION. 
1. IN ANASTASIUS SINAITA, QUEST. 96. 
As it is possible even now for man to form men, according to the original 
formation of Adam, He no longer now creates, on account of His having granted 
once for all to man the power of generating men, saying to our nature, 
"Increase, and multiply, and replenish the earth." So also, by His omnipotent 
and omniscient power, He arranged that the dissolution and death of our bodies 
should be effected by a natural sequence and order, through the change of their 
elements, in accordance with His divine knowledge and comprehension. 
2. JOANNES VECCUS, PATRIARCH OF CONSTANTINOPLE, ON THE PROCESSION OF THE 
SPIRIT. IN LEO ALLATIUS, VOL. I. P. 248. 
Further, Clement the Stromatist, in the various definitions which he framed, 
that they might guide the man desirous of studying theology in every dogma of 
religion, defining what spirit is, and how it is called spirit, says: "Spirit is 
a substance, subtle, immaterial, and which issues forth without form." 
3. FROM THE UNPUBLISHED DISPUTATION AGAINST ICONOCLASTS, OF NICEPHORUS OF 
CONSTANTINOPLE; EDITED IN GREEK AND LATIN BY LE NOURRY IN HIS APPARATUS TO 
THE 
LIBRARY OF THE FATHERS, VOL. I. P. 1334 A.B. FROM CLEMENT THE PRESBYTER OF 
ALEXANDRIA'S BOOK AGAINST JUDAIZERS. 
Solomon the son of David, in the books styled "The Reigns of the Kings," 
comprehending not only that the structure of the true temple was celestial and 
spiritual, but had also a reference to the flesh, which He who was both the son 
and Lord of David was to build up, both for His own presence, where, as a living 
image, He resolved to make His shrine, and for the church that was to rise up 
through the union of faith, says expressly, "Will God in very deed dwell with 
men on the earth?" 
Please choose an option. He dwells on the earth clothed in flesh, and His 
abode with men is effected by the conjunction and harmony which obtains among 
the righteous, and which build and rear a new temple. For the righteous are the 
earth, being still encompassed with the earth; and earth, too, in comparison 
with the greatness of the Lord. Thus also the blessed Peter hesitates not to 
say, "Ye also, as living stones, are built up, a spiritual house, a holy temple, 
to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ." 
And with reference to the body, which by circumscription He consecrated as a 
hallowed place for Himself upon earth, He said," Destroy this temple, and in 
three days I will raise it up again. The Jews therefore said, In forty-six years 
was this temple built, and wilt thou raise it up in three days? But He spake of 
the temple of His body." 
4. FROM MS. MARKED 2431 IN THE LIBRARY OF THE MOST CHRISTIAN KING.--IBID. P. 
A. FROM THE VERY HOLY AND BLESSED CLEMENT, PRESBYTER OF ALEXANDRIA, THE 
STROMATIST'S BOOK ON PROVIDENCE. 
What is God? "God," as the Lord saith, "is a Spirit." Now spirit is properly 
substance, incorporeal, and uncircumscribed. And that is incorporeal which does 
not consist of a body, or whose existence is not according to breadth, length, 
and depth. And that is uncircumscribed which has no place, which is wholly in 
all, and in each entire, and the same in itself. 
5. FROM THE SAME MS.--IB1D. 1335 Fusis (nature) is so called from 
to pefukenai (to be born). The first substance is everything which 
subsists by itself, as a stone is called a substance. The second is a substance 
capable of increase, as a plant grows and decays. The third is animated and 
sentient substance, as animal, horse. The fourth is animate, sentient, rational 
substance, as man. Wherefore each one of us is made as consisting of all, having 
an immaterial soul arid a mind, which is the image of God. 
6. IN JOHN OF DAMASCUS--PARALLEL--VOL. II. 
P. 307. 
The fear of God, who is impassible, is free of perturbation. For it is not 
God that one dreads, but the falling away from God. He who dreads this, dreads 
falling into what is evil, and dreads what is evil. And he that fears a fall 
wishes himself to be immortal and passionless. 
7.THE SAME, P. 341. 
Let there be a law against those who dare to look at things sacred and divine 
irreverently, and in a way unworthy of God, to inflict on them the punishment of 
blindness. 
8. THE SAME, P. 657. 
Universally, the Christian is friendly to solitude, and quiet, and 
tranquillily, and peace. 
9. FROM THE CATENA ON THE PENTATEUCH, PUBLISHED IN LATIN BY FRANCIS ZEPHYRUS, 
P. 146. 
That mystic name which is called the Tetragrammaton, by which alone they who 
had access to the Holy of Holies were protected, is pronounced Jehovah, which 
means, "Who is, and who shall be." The candlestick which stood at the south of 
the altar signified the seven planets, which seem to us to revolve around the 
meridian, on either side of which rise three branches; since the sun also like 
the lamp, balanced in the midst of the planets by divine wisdom, illumines by 
its light those above and below. On the other side of the altar was situated the 
table on which the loaves were displayed, because from that quarter of the 
heaven vital and nourishing breezes blow. 
10. FROM J. A. CRAMER'S CATENAE GRAECORUM PATRUM IN NOV. TEST. OXFORD 1840 
VOL. III. 
On Acts vii. 24, 25. The mystics say that it was by his word alone that Moses 
slew the Egyptian; as certainly afterwards it is related in the Acts that 
[Peter] slew with his word those who kept back part of the price of the land, 
and lied. 
II. THE SAME, VOL. IV. P. 291. 
On Rom. viii. 38. "Or life, that of our present existence," and 
"death,"--that caused by the assault of persecutors, and "angels, and 
principalities, and powers," apostate spirits. 
12. P. 369, CHAP. X. 3. 
And having neither known nor done the requirement of the law, what they 
conceived, that they also thought that the law required. And they did not 
believe the law, as prophesying, but the bare word; and followed it from fear, 
but not with their disposition and in faith. 
13. VOL. VI. P. 385. 
On 2 Cor. v. 16. "And if we have known Christ after the flesh." 

And so far, he says, no one any longer lives after the flesh. For that is not 
life, but death. For Christ also, that He might show this, ceased to live after 
the flesh. How? Not by putting off the body! Far be it! For with it as His own 
He shall come, the Judge of all. But by divesting Himself of physical 
affections, such as hunger, and thirst, and sleep, and weariness. For now He has 
a body incapable of suffering and of injury. 
As "after the flesh" in our case is being in the midst of sins, and being out 
of them is to be "not after the flesh;" so also after the flesh, in the case of 
Christ, was His subjection to natural affections, and not to be subject to them 
was not to be "after the flesh." "But," he says, "as He was released, so also 
are we." Let there be no longer, he says, subjection to the influences of the 
flesh. Thus Clement, the fourth book of the Hypotyposes. 
14. FROM THE SAME, P. 391. 
On 2 Cor. vi. 11. "Our heart is enlarged." For as heat is wont to expand, so 
also love. For love is a thing of warmth. As if he would say, I love you not 
only with mouth, but with heart, and have you all within. Wherefore he says: "ye 
are not straitened in us, since desire itself expands the soul." "Our heart is 
enlarged" to teach you all things; "but ye are straitened in your own bowels," 
that is, in love to God, in which you ought to love me. Thus Clement, in the 
fourth book of the Hypotyposes. 
15. FROM VOL. III. v. 286. 
Heb. i. I. "At sundry times and divers man Since the Lord, being the Apostle 
of the Almighty, was sent to the Hebrews, it was out of modesty that Paul did 
not subscribe himself apostle of the Hebrews, from reverence for the Lord, and 
because he was the herald and apostle of the Gentiles, and wrote the Epistle to 
the Hebrews in addition [to his proper work]. 
16. FROM THE SAME. 
The same work contains a passage from The Instructor, book i. chap. vi. The 
passage is that beginning, "For the blood is found to be," down to "potent 
charms of affection." 
Portions, however, are omitted. There are a good many various readings; but 
although the passage in question, as found in Cramer's work, is printed in full 
in Migne's edition, on the alleged ground of the considerable variation from the 
text of Clement, the variation is not such as to make a translation of the 
passage as found in Cramer of any special interest or value. We have noted the 
following readings:- ginetai, where, the verb being omitted, we have 
inserted is: There is an obstruction, etc. 
suriggas, tubes, instead of s,s212>raggas (hollows), 
hollows of the breasts. 
geitniaxouswn, for getniouswn neighbouring (arteries). 
epilhyei, for interruption (such as this). 
apoklhrw,s,is occurs as in the text,for which the 
emendation apolhrhsis, as specified in the note, has been adopted. 
htis esti, omitted here, which is "sweet through grace," is 
supplied. 
P. 142. 
gala, milk, instead of manna, manna, (that food) manna. 
P. 149. 
krh de katanohsai thn
f,usi,n (but it is necessary to consider nature), for 
ou katanenohkotes, t. f., through want of 
consideration of nature. katakleiomenh, agreeing with food, for 
katakleiomenw, agreeing with heat (enclosed within). 
ginetai for gar (which is untranslated), (the blood) is (a 
preparation) for milk. 
P. 144. 
toinun ton logon is supplied, and eikotws omitted 
in the clause, Paul using appropriate figurative language. 
P. 145. 
plhn is supplied before alla to en auth, 
and the blood in it, etc., is omitted. 
P. 146. 
"For Diogenes Apolloniates will have it" is omitted. 
panth, rendered "in all respects," is connected with the preceding 
sentence. 
P. 147. 
oti tinun, for Ws d. And that (milk 
is produced). 
thnikauta for thnikade in the clause, "and the grass and 
meadows are juicy and moist," not translated. proeirhmenw, above 
mentioned (milk), omitted. 
trufhs for trofhs, (sweet) nutriment. 
tw omitted before glukei, sweet (wine), and kaqaper, 
"as, when suffering." 
to liparon for tw liparw, and aridhlws for 
aridhlou, in the sentence: "Further, many use the fat of milk, called 
butter, for the lamp, plainly," etc. 
N. B. 

