
Clement of Alexandria












The Stromata, or Miscellanies
Book VI
CHAPTER I -- PLAN. 
The sixth and also the seventh Miscellany of gnostic notes, in accordance 
with the true philosophy, having delineated as well as possible the ethical 
argument conveyed in them, and having exhibited what the Gnostic is in his life, 
proceed to show the philosophers that he is by no means impious, as they 
suppose, but that he alone is truly pious, by a compendious exhibition of the 
Gnostic's form of religion, as far as it is possible, without danger, to commit 
it to writing in a book of reference. For the Lord enjoined "to labour for the 
meat which endureth to eternity." And the prophet says," Blessed is he that 
soweth into all waters, whose ox and ass tread," [that is,] the people, from the 
Law and from the Gentiles, gathered into one faith. 
"Now the weak eateth herbs," according to the noble apostle. The Instructor, 
divided by us into three books, has already exhibited the training and nurture 
up from the state of childhood, that is, the course of life which from 
elementary instruction grows by faith; and in the case of those enrolled in the 
number of men, prepares beforehand the soul, endued with virtue, for the 
reception of gnostic knowledge. The Greeks, then, clearly learning, from what 
shall be said by us in these pages, that in profanely persecuting the Godloving 
man, they themselves act impiously; then, as the notes advance, in accordance 
with the style of the Miscellanies, we must solve the difficulties raised both 
by Greeks and Barbarians with respect to the coming of the Lord. 
In a meadow the flowers blooming variously, and in a park the plantations of 
fruittrees, are not separated according to their species from those of other 
kinds. If some, culling varieties, have Composed learned collections, Meadows, 
and Helicons, and Honeycombs, and Robes; then, with the things which come to 
recollection by haphazard, and are expurgated neither in order nor expression, 
but purposely scattered, the form of the Miscellanies is promiscuously 
variegated like a meadow. And such being the case, my notes shall serve as 
kindling sparks; and in the case of him, who is fit for knowledge, if he chance 
to fall in with them, research made with exertion will turn out to his benefit 
and advantage. For it is fight that labour should precede not only food but 
also, much more knowledge, in the case of those that are advancing to the 
eternal and blessed salvation by the "strait and narrow way," which is truly the 
Lord's. 
Our knowledge, and our spiritual garden, is the Saviour Himself; into whom we 
are planted, being transferred and transplanted, from our old life, into the 
good land. And transplanting contributes to fruitfulness. The Lord, then, into 
whom we have been transplanted, is the Light i and the true Knowledge. 
Now knowledge is otherwise spoken of in a twofold sense: that, commonly so 
called, which appears in all men (similarly also comprehension and 
apprehension), universally, in the knowledge of individual objects; in which not 
only the rational powers, but equally the irrational, share, which I would never 
term knowledge, inasmuch as the apprehension of things through the senses comes 
naturally. But that which par excellence is termed knowledge, bears the impress 
of judgment and reason, in the exercise of which there will be rational 
cognitions alone, applying purely to objects of thought, and resulting from the 
bare energy of the soul. "He is a good man," says David, "who pities" (those 
ruined through error), "and lends" (from the communication of the word of truth) 
not at haphazard, for "he will dispense his words in judgment:" with profound 
calculation, "he hath dispersed, he hath given to the poor." 
CHAPTER II -- THE SUBJECT OF PLAGIARISMS RESUMED. THE GREEKS PLAGIARIZED FROM 
ONE ANOTHER. 
Before handling the point proposed, we must, by way of preface, add to the 
close of the fifth book what is wanting. For since we have shown that the 
symbolical style was ancient, and was employed not only by our prophets, but 
also by the majority of the ancient Greeks, and by not a few of the rest of the 
Gentile Barbarians, it was requisite to proceed to the mysteries of the 
initiated. I postpone the elucidation of these till we advance to the 
confutation of what is said by the Greeks on first principles; for we shall show 
that the mysteries belong to the same branch of speculation. And having proved 
that the declaration of Hellenic thought is illuminated all round by the truth, 
bestowed on us in the Scriptures, taking it according to the sense, we have 
proved, not to say what is invidious, that the theft of the truth passed to 
them. 
Come, and let us adduce the Greeks as witnesses against themselves to the 
theft. For, inasmuch as they pilfer from one another, they establish the fact 
that they are thieves; and although against their will, they are detected, 
clandestinely appropriating to those of their own race the truth which belongs 
to us. For if they do not keep their hands from each other, they will hardly do 
it from our authors. I shall say nothing of philosophic dogmas, since the very 
persons who are the authors of the divisions into sects, confess in writing, so 
as not to be convicted of ingratitude, that they have received from Socrates the 
most important of their dogmas. But after availing myself of a few testimonies 
of men most talked of, and of repute among the Greeks, and exposing their 
plagiarizing style, and selecting them from various periods, I shall turn to 
what follows. 
Orpheus, then, having composed the line: "Since nothing else is more 
shameless and wretched than woman," 
Homer plainly says: "Since nothing else is more dreadful and shameless than a 
woman." 
And Musaeus having written: "Since art is greatly superior to strength," 
Homer says: "By art rather than strength is the woodcutter greatly superior." 

Again, Musaeus having composed the lines: "And as the fruitful field 
produceth leaves, And on the ash trees some fade, others grow, So whirls the 
race of man its leaf," 
Homer transcribes: "Some of the leaves the wind strews on the ground. 
The budding wood bears some; in time of spring, They come. So springs one 
race of men, and one departs." 
Again, Homer having said: "It is unholy to exult over dead men," 
Archilochus and Cratinus write, the former: "It is not noble at dead men to 
sneer;" and Cratinus in the Lacones: "For men 'tis dreadful to exult Much o'er 
the stalwart dead." 
Again, Archilochus, transferring that Homeric line: "I erred, nor say I nay: 
-- instead of many" writes thus: "I erred, and this mischief hath somehow seized 
another." 
As certainly also that line: "Evenhanded war the slayer slays." 
He also, altering, has given forth thus: "I will do it. For Mars to men in 
truth is evenhanded." 
Also, translating the following: "The issues of victory among men depend on 
the gods," he openly encourages youth, in the following iambic: "Victory's 
issues on the gods depend." Again, Homer having said: "With feet unwashed 
sleeping on the ground," Euripides writes in Erechteus: "Upon the plain spread 
with no couch they sleep Nor m the streams of water lave their feet." 
Archilochus having likewise said: "But one with this and one with that His 
heart delights? in correspondence with the Homeric line: "For one in these 
deeds, one in those delights," Euripides says in OEneus: "But one in these ways, 
one in those, has more delight." 
And I have heard Aeschylus saying: "He who is happy ought to stay at home; 
There should he also stay, who speeds not well." 
And Euripides, too, shouting the like on the stage: Happy the man who, 
prosperous, stays at home." 
Menander, too, on comedy, saying: "He ought at home to stay, and free remain, 
Or be no longer rightly happy." 
Again, Theognis having said: "The exile has no comrade dear and true," 
Euripides has written: "Far from the poor flies every friend." 
And Epicharmus, saying: "Daughter, woe worth the day Thee who art old I marry 
to a youth;" and adding: "For the young husband takes some other girl, And for 
another husband longs the wife," 
Euripides writes: "'Tis bad to yoke an old wife to a youth; For he desires to 
share another's bed, And she, by him deserted, mischief plots." 
Euripides having, besides, said in the Medea: "For no good do a bad man's 
gifts,"Sophocles in Ajax Flagellifer utters this iambic: "For foes' gifts are no 
gifts, nor any boon." 
Solon having written: "For surfeit insolence begets, When store of wealth 
attends." 
Theognis writes in the same way: "For surfeit insolence begets, When store of 
wealth attends the bad." 
Whence also Thucydides, in the Histories, says: -- "Many men, to whom in a 
great degree, and in a short time, unlookedfor prosperity comes, are wont to 
turn to insolence." And Philistus likewise imitates the same sentiment, 
expressing himself thus: -- "And the many things which turn out prosperously to 
men, in accordance with reason, have an incredibly dangerous s tendency to 
misfortune. For those who meet with unlooked success beyond their expectations, 
are for the most part wont to turn to insolence." Again, Euripides having 
written: "For children sprung of parents who have led A hard and toilsome life, 
superior are;" 
Critias writes: "For I begin with a man's origin: how far the best and 
strongest in body will he be, if his father exercises himself, and eats in a 
hardy way, anti subjects his body to toilsome labour; and if the mother of the 
future child be strong in body, and give herself exercise." 
Again, Homer having said of the Hephaestusmade shield: "Upon it earth and 
heaven and sea he made, And Ocean's rivers' mighty strength portrayed," 
Pherecydes of Syros says: -- "Zas makes a cloak large and beautiful, and 
works on it earth and Ogenus, and the palace of Ogenus." 
And Homer having said: "Shame, which greatly hurts a man or he!ps," 
Euripides writes in Erechtheus: "Of shame I find it hard to judge; ' Tis 
needed.' 'Tis at times a great mischief." 
Take, by way of parallel, such plagiarisms as the following, from those who 
flourished together, and were rivals of each other. From the Orestes of 
Euripides: "Dear charm of sleep, aid in disease." 
From the Eriphyle of Sophocies: "Hie thee to sleep, healer of that disease." 
And from the Antigone of Sophocles: "Bastardy is opprobrious in name; but the 
nature is equal;" 
And from the Aleuades of Sophocles: "Each good thing has its nature equal." 
Again, in the Otimenus of Euripides: "For him who toils, God helps;" 
And in the Minos of Sophocles; "To those who act not, fortune is no ally;" 
And from the Alexander of Euripides: "But time will show; and learning, by 
that test, I shall know whether thou art good or bad;" 
And from the Hipponos of Sophocles: "Besides, conceal thou nought; since 
Time, That sees all, hears all, all things will unfold." 
But let us similarly run over the following; for Eumelus having composed the 
line, "Of Memory and Olympian Zeus the daughters nine," 
Solon thus begins the elegy: "Of Memory and Olympian Zeus the children 
bright." 
Again, Euripides, paraphrasing the Homeric line: "What, whence art thou? Thy 
city and thy parents, where?" employs the following iambics in Aegeus: "What 
country shall we say that thou hast left To roam in exile, what thy land -- the 
bound Of thine own native soil? Who thee begat? 
And of what father dost thou call thyself the son?" 
And what? Theognis having said: "Wine largely drunk is bad; but if one use It 
with discretion, 'tis not bad, but good,"- does not Panyasis write? 
"Above the gods' best gift to men ranks wine, In measure drunk; but in excess 
the worst." 
Hesiod, too, saying: "But for the fire to thee I'll give a plague, 
For all men to delight themselves withal,"- Euripides writes: "And for the 
fire Another fire greater and unconquerable, Sprung up in the shape of women" 
And in addition, Homer, saying: "There is no satiating the greedy paunch, 
Baneful, which many plagues has caused to men." 
Euripides says : "Dire need and baneful paunch me overcome; From which all 
evils come." 
Besides, Callias the comic poet having written: "With madmen, all men must be 
mad, they say,"- Menander, in the Poloumenoi, expresses himself similarly, 
saying: "The presence of wisdom is not always suitable: 
One sometimes must with others play the fool." 
And Antimachus of Teos having said: "From gifts, to mortals many ills 
arise,"- Augias composed the line: "For gifts men's mind and acts deceive." 
And Hesiod having said: "Than a good wife, no man a better thing Ere gained; 
than a bad wife, a worse,"- Simonides said: "A better prize than a good wife no 
man Ere gained, than a bad one nought worse." 
Again, Epicharmas having said : "As destined Ion to live, and yet not long, 
Think of thyself."- Euripides writes: "Why? seeing the wealth we have uncertain 
is, Why don't we live as free from care, as pleasant As we may?" 
Similarly also, the comic poet Diphilus having said: "The life of men is 
prone to change,"- Posidippus says: "No man of mortal mould his life has passed 
From suffering free. Nor to the end again Has continued prosperous." 
Similarly speaks to thee Plato, writing of man as a creature subject to 
change. Again, Euripides having said: "Oh life to mortal men of trouble full, 
How slippery in everything art thou I 
Now grow'st thou, and thou now decay'st away. 
And there is set no limit, no, not one, For mortals of their course to make 
an end, Except when Death's remorseless final end Comes, sent from Zeus,"- 
Diphilus writes: "There is no life which has not its own ills, Pains, cares, 
thefts, and anxieties, disease; And Death, as a physician, coming, gives Rest to 
their victims in his quiet sleep." 
Furthermore, Euripides having said: "Many are fortune's shapes, And many 
things contrary to expectation the gods perform,"- The tragic poet Theodectes 
similarly writes: "The instability of mortals' fates." 
And Bacchylides having said : "To few alone of mortals is it given To reach 
hoary age, being prosperous all the while, And not meet with calamities,"- 
Moschion, the comic poet, writes: "But he of all men is most blest, Who leads 
throughout an equal life." 
And you will find that, Theognis having said: "For no advantage to a mall 
grown old A young wife is, who will not, as a ship The helm, obey,"- 
Aristophanes, the comic poet, writes: "An old man to a young wife suits but 
ill." 
For Anacreon, having written: "Luxurious love I sing, With flowery garlands 
graced, He is of gods the king, He mortal men subdues?- Euripides writes : "For 
love not only men attacks, And women; but disturbs The souls of gods above, and 
to the sea Descends." 
But not to protract the discourse further, in our anxiety to show the 
propensity of the Greeks to plagiarism in expressions and dogmas, allow us to 
adduce the express testimony of Hippias, the sophist of Elea, who discourses on 
the point in hand, and speaks thus: "Of these things some perchance are said by 
Orpheus, some briefly by Musaeus; some in one place, others in other places; 
some by Hesiod, some by Homer, some by the rest of the poets; and some in prose 
compositions, some by Greeks, some by Barbarians. And I from all these, placing 
together the things of most importance and of kindred character, will make the 
present discourse new and varied." 
And in order that we may see that philosophy and history, and even rhetoric, 
are not free of a like reproach, it is right to adduce a few instances from 
them. For Alcmaeon of Crotona having said, "It is easier to guard against a man 
who is an enemy than a friend," Sophocles wrote in the Antigone: "For what sore 
more grievous than a bad friend?" 
And Xenophon said: "No man can injure enemies in any way other than by 
appearing to be a friend." 
And Euripides having said in Telephus: "Shall we Greeks be slaves to 
Barbarians? "- Thrasymachus, in the oration for the Larissaeans, says: "Shall we 
be slaves to Archelaus -- Greeks to a Barbarian?" 
And Orpheus having said: "Water is the change for soul, and death for water; 
From water is earth, and what comes from earth is again water, And from that, 
soul, which changes the whole ether;" and Heraclitus, putting together the 
expressions from these lines, writes thus: "It is death for souls to become 
water, and death for water to become earth; and from earth comes water, and from 
water soul." 
And Athamas the Pythagorean having said, "Thus was produced the beginning of 
the universe; and there are four roots -- fire, water, air, earth: for from 
these is the origination of what is produced," -- Empedocles of Agrigentum wrote 
: "The four roots of all things first do thou hear- Fire, water, earth, and 
ether's boundless height: 
For of these all that was, is, shall be, comes." 
And Plato having said,"Wherefore also the gods, knowing men, release sooner 
from life those they value most, "Menander wrote: "Whom the gods love, dies 
young." 
And Euripides having written in the OEnomaus: "We judge of things obscure 
from what we see;" and in the Phoenix: "By signs the obscure is fairly grasped?- 
Hyperides says, "But we must investigate things unseen by learning from signs 
and probabilities." And Isocrates having said, "We must conjecture the future by 
the past," Andocides does not shrink from saying, "For we must make use of what 
has happened previously as signs in reference to what is to be." Besides, 
Theognis having said : "The evil of counterfeit silver and gold is not intoler 
able, O Cyrnus, and to a wise man is not difficult of detection; But if the mind 
of a friend is hidden in his breast, If he is false, and has a treacherous heart 
within, This is the basest thing for mortals, caused by God, And of all things 
the hardest to detect,"- Euripides writes : "Oh Zeus, why hast thou given to men 
clear tests Of spurious gold, while on the body grows No mark sufficing to 
discover clear The wicked man?" 
Hyperides himself also says, "There is no feature of the mind impressed on 
the countenance Of men." 
Again, Stasinus having composed the line: "Fool, who, having slain the 
father, leaves the children,"- Xenophon says, "For I seem to myself to have 
acted in like manner, as if one who killed the father should spare his 
children." And Sophocles having written in the Antigone: "Mother and father 
being in Hades now, No brother ever can to me spring forth?- Herodotus says, 
"Mother and father being no more, I shall not have another brother." In addition 
to these, Theopompus having written: "Twice children are old men in very truth;" 

And before him Sophocles in Peleus: "Peleus, the son of Aeacus, I, sole 
housekeeper, Guide, old as he is now, and train again, For the aged man is once 
again a child,"- Antipho the orator says, "For the nursing of the old is like 
the nursing of children." Also the philosopher Plato says, "The old man then, as 
seems, will be twice a child." Further, Thucydides having said, "We alone bore 
the brunt at Marathon," -- Demosthenes said, "By those who bore the brunt at 
Marathon." Nor will I omit the following. Cratinus having said in the "The 
preparation perchance you know," 
Andocides the orator says, "The preparation, gentlemen of the jury, and the 
eagerness of our enemies, almost all of you know." Similarly also Nicias, in the 
speech on the deposit, against Ly-sias, says, "The preparation and the eagerness 
of the adversaries, ye see, O gentlemen of the jury." After him Aeschines says, 
"You see the preparation, O men of Athens, and the line of battle." Again, 
Demosthenes having said, "What zeal and what canvassing, O men of Athens, have 
been employed in this contest, I think almost all of you are aware;" and 
Philinus similarly, "What zeal, what forming of the line of battle, gentlemen of 
the jury, have taken place in this contest, I think not one of you is ignorant." 
Isocrates, again, having said, "As if she were related to his wealth, not him," 
Lysias says in the Orphics, "And he was plainly related not to the persons, but 
to the money." Since Homer also having written: "O friend, if in this war, by 
taking flight, We should from age and death exemption win, I would not fight 
among the first myself, Nor would I send thee to the glorious fray; But now -- 
for myriad fates of death attend In any case, which man may not escape Or shun 
-- come on. To some one we shall bring Renown, or some one shall to us," 
Theopompus writes, "For if, by avoiding the present danger, we were to pass 
the rest of our time in security, to show love of life would not be wonderful. 
But now, so many fatalities are incident to life, that death in battle seems 
preferable." And what? Child the sophist having uttered the apophthegm, "Become 
surety, and mischief is at hand," did not Epicharmus utter the same sentiment in 
other terms, when he said, "Suretyship is the daughter of mischief, and loss 
that of suretyship?" Further, Hippocrates the physician having written, "You 
must look to time, and locality, and age, and disease," 
Euripides says in Hexameters : - "Those who the healing art would practise 
well, Must study people's modes of life, and note The soil, and the diseases so 
consider." 
Homer again, having written: "I say no mortal man can doom escape,"- Archinus 
says, "All men are bound to die either sooner or later;" and Demosthenes, "To 
all men death is the end of life, though one should keep himself shut up in a 
coop." 
And Herodotus, again, having said, in his discourse about Glaucus the 
Spartan, that the Pythian said, "In the case of the Deity, to say and to do are 
equivalent," Aristophanes said : "For to think and to do are equivalent." 
And before him, Parmenides of Elea said: "For thinking and being are the 
same." 
And Plato having said, "And we shall show, not absurdly perhaps, that the 
beginning of love is sight; and hope diminishes the passion, memory nourishes 
it, and intercourse preserves it;" does not Philemon the comic poet write : 
"First all see, then admire; Then gaze, then come to hope; And thus arises 
love?" 
Further, Demosthenes having said, "For to all of us death is a debt," and so 
forth, Phanocles writes in Loves, or The Beautiful: "But from the Fates' 
unbroken thread escape Is none for those that feed on earth." 
You will also find that Plato having said, "For the first sprout of each 
plant, having got a fair start, according to the virtue of its own nature, is 
most powerful in inducing the appropriate end;" the historian writes, "Further, 
it is not natural for one of the wild plants to become cultivated, after they 
have passed the earlier period of growth;" and the following of Empedo cles: 
"For I already have been boy and girl, And bush, and bird, and mute fish in the 
sea,"- Euripides transcribes in Chrysippus: "But nothing dies Of things that 
are; but being dissolved, One from the other, Shows another form." 
And Plato having said, in the Republic, that women were common, Euripides 
writes in the Protesilaus: "For common, then, is woman's bed." 
Further, Euripides having written : "For to the temperate enough sufficient 
is "- Epicurus expressly says, "Sufficiency is the greatest riches of all." 
Again, Aristophanes having written : "Life thou securely shalt enjoy, being 
just And free from turmoil, and from fear live well,"- Epicurus says, "The 
greatest fruit of righteousness is tranquillity." 
Let these species, then, of Greek plagiarism of sentiments, being such, stand 
as sufficient for a clear specimen to him who is capable of perceiving. 
And not only have they been detected pirating and paraphrasing thoughts and 
expressions, as will be shown; but they will also be convicted of the possession 
of what is entirely stolen. For stealing entirely what is the production of 
others they have published it as their own; as Eugamon of Cyrene did the entire 
book on the Thesprotians from Musaeus, and Pisander of Camirus the Heraclea of 
Pisinus of Lindus, and Panyasis of Halicarnassus, the capture of OEchalia from 
Cleophilus of Samos. 
You will also find that Homer, the great poet, took from Orpheus, from the 
Disappearance of Dionysus, those words and what follows verbatim: "As a man 
trains a luxuriant shoot of olive." 
And in the Theogony, it is said by Orpheus of Kronos: "He lay, his thick neck 
bent aside; and him All-conquering Sleep had seized." 
These Homer transferrred to the Cyclops. And Hesiod writes of Melampous: 
"Gladly to hear, what the immortals have assigned To men, the brave from cowards 
clearly marks;" and so forth, taking it word for word from the poet Musaeus. 
And Aristophanes the comic poet has, in the first of the Thesmophoriazusoe, 
transferred the words from the Empiprameni of Cratinus. And Plato the comic 
poet, and Aristophanes in Doeda-lus, steal from one another. Cocalus, composed 
by Araros, the son of Aristophanes, was by the comic poet Philemon altered, and 
made into the comedy called Hypobolimoens. 
Eumelus and Acusilaus the historiographers changed the contents of Hesiod 
into prose, and published them as their own. Gorgias of Leontium and Eudemus of 
Naxus, the historians, stole from Melesagoras. And, besides, there is Bion of 
Proconnesus, who epitomized and transcribed the writings of the ancient Cadmus, 
and Archilochus, and Aristotle, and Leandrus, and Hellanicus, and Hecataeus, and 
Androtion, and Philochorus. Dieuchidas of Megara transferred the beginning of 
his treatise from the Deucalion of Hellanicus. I pass over in silence Heraclitus 
of Ephesus, who took a very great deal from Orpheus. 
From Pythagoras Plato derived the immortality of the soul; and he from the 
Egyptians. And many of the Platonists composed books, in which they show that 
the Stoics, as we said in the beginning, and Aristotle, took the most and 
principal of their dogmas from Plato. Epicurus also pilfered his leading dogmas 
from Democritus. Let these things then be so. For life would fail me, were I to 
undertake to go over the subject in detail, to expose the selfish plagiarism of 
the Greeks, and how they claim the discovery of the best of their doctrines, 
which they have received from us. 
CHAPTER III -- PLAGIARISM BY THE GREEKS OF THE MIRACLES RELATED IN THE SACRED 
BOOKS OF THE HEBREWS. 
And now they are convicted not only of borrowing doctrines from the 
Barbarians, but also of relating as prodigies of Hellenic mythology the marvels 
found in our records, wrought through divine power from above, by those who led 
holy lives, while devoting attention to us. And we shall ask at them whether 
those things which they relate are true or false. But they will not say that 
they are false; for they will not with their will condemn themselves of the very 
great silliness of composing falsehoods, but of necessity admit them to be true. 
And how will the prodigies enacted by Moses and the other prophets any longer 
appear to them incredible? For the Almighty God, in His care for all men, turns 
some to salvation by commands, some by threats, some by miraculous signs, some 
by gentle promises. 
Well, the Greeks, when once a drought had wasted Greece for a protracted 
period, and a dearth of the fruits of the earth ensued, it is said, those that 
survived of them, having, because of the famine, come as suppliants to Delphi, 
asked the Pythian priestess how they should be released from the calamity. She 
announced that the only help in their distress was, that they should avail 
themselves of the prayers of Aeacus. Prevailed on by them, Aeacus, ascending the 
Hellenic hill, and stretching out pure hands to heaven, and invoking the commons 
God, besought him to pity wasted Greece. And as he prayed, thunder sounded, out 
of the usual course of things, and the whole surrounding atmosphere was covered 
with clouds. And impetuous and continued rains, bursting down, filled the whole 
region. The result was a copious and rich fertility wrought by the husbandry of 
the prayers of Aeacus. 
"And Samuel called on the Lord," it is said, "and the Lord gave forth His 
voice, and rain in the day of harvest." Do you see that "He who sendeth His rain 
on the just and on the unjust" by the subject powers is the one God? And the 
whole of our Scripture is full of instances of God, in reference to the prayers 
of the just, hearing and performing each one of their petitions. 
Again, the Greeks relate, that in the case of a failure once of the Etesian 
winds, Aristaeus once sacrificed in Ceus to Isthmian Zeus. For there was great 
devastation, everything being burnt up with the heat in consequence of the winds 
which had been wont to refresh the productions of the earth, not blowing, and he 
easily called them back. 
And at Delphi, on the expedition of Xerxes against Greece, the Pythian 
priestess having made answer: "O Delphians, pray the winds, and it will be 
better,"- they having erected an altar and performed sacrifice to the winds, had 
them as their helpers. For, blowing violently around Cape Sepias, they shivered 
the whole preparations of the Persian expedition. Empedocles of Agrigentum was 
called "Checker of Winds." Accordingly it is said, that when, on a time, a wind 
blew from the mountain of Agrigentum, heavy and pestiferous for the inhabitants, 
and the cause also of barrenness to their wives, he made the wind to cease. 
Wherefore he himself writes in the lines: "Thou shalt the might of the unwearied 
winds make still, Which rushing to the earth spoil mortals' crops, And at thy 
will bring back the avenging blasts." 
And they say that he was followed by some that used divinations, and some 
that had been long vexed by sore diseases. They plainly, then, believed in the 
performance of cures, and signs and wonders, from our Scriptures. For if certain 
powers move the winds and dispense showers, let them hear the psalmist: "How 
amiable are; thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts!" This is the Lord of powers, and 
principalities, and authorities, of whom Moses speaks; so that we may be with 
Him. "And ye shall circumcise your hard heart, and shall not harden your neck 
any more. For He is Lord of lords and God of gods, the great God and strong," 
unit so forth. And Isaiah says, "Lift your eyes to the height, and see who hath 
produced all these things." 
And some say that plagues, and hail-storms, and tempests, and the like, are 
wont to take place, not alone in consequence of material disturbance, but also 
through anger of demons and bad angels. For instance, they say that the Magi at 
Cleone, watching the phenomena of the skies, when the clouds are about to 
discharge hail, avert the threatening of wrath by incantations and sacrifices. 
And if at any time there is the want of an animal, they are satisfied with 
bleeding their own finger for a sacrifice. The prophetess Diotima, by the 
Athenians offering sacrifice previous to the pestilence, effected a delay of the 
plague for ten years. The sacrifices, too, of Epimenides of Crete, put off the 
Persian war for an equal period. And it is considered to be all the same whether 
we call these spirits gods or angels. And those skilled in the matter of 
consecrating statues, in many of the temples have erected tombs of the dead, 
calling the souls of these Daemons, and teaching them to be wor-shipped by men; 
as having, in consequence of the purity of their life, by the divine 
foreknowledge, received the power of wandering about the space around the earth 
in order to minister to men. For they knew that some souls were by nature kept 
in the body. But of these, as the work proceeds, in the treatise on the angels, 
we shall discourse. 
Democritus, who predicted many things from observation of celestial 
phenomena, was called "Wisdom" (Sofia). On his meeting a cordial 
reception from his brother Damasus, he predicted that there would be much rain, 
judging from certain stars. Some, accordingly, convinced by him, gathered their 
crops; for being in summer-time, they were stir on the threshing-floor. But 
others lost all, unexpected and heavy showers having burst down. 
How then shall the Greeks any longer disbelieve the divine appearance on 
Mount Sinai, when the fire burned, consuming none of the things that grew on the 
mount; and the sound of trampets issued forth, breathed without instruments? For 
that which is called the descent on the mount of God is the advent of divine 
power, pervading the whole world, and proclaiming "the light that is 
inaccessible." 
For such is the allegory, according to the Scripture. But the fire was seen, 
as Aristobulus says, while the whole multitude, amounting to not less than a 
million, besides those under age, were congregated around the mountain, the 
circuit of the mount not being less than five days' journey. Over the whole 
place of the vision the burning fire was seen by them all encamped as it were 
around; so that the descent was not local. For God is everywhere. 
Now the compilers of narratives say that in the island of Britain s there is 
a cave situated under a mountain, and a chasm on its summit; and that, 
accordingly, when the wind falls into the cave, and rushes into the bosom of the 
cleft, a sound is heard like cymbals clashing musically. And often in the woods, 
when the leaves are moved by a sudden gust of wind, a sound is emitted like the 
song of birds. 
Those also who composed the Persics relate that in the uplands, in the 
country of the Magi, three mountains are situated on an extended plain, and that 
those who travel through the locality, on coming to the first mountain, hear a 
confused sound as of several myriads shouting, as if in battle array; and on 
reaching the middle one, they hear a clamour louder and more distinct; and at 
the end hear people singing a paean, as if victorious. And the cause, in my 
opinion, of the whole sound, is the smoothness and cavernous character of the 
localities; and the air, entering in, being sent back and going to the same 
point, sounds with considerable force. Let these things be so. But it is 
possible for God Almighty, even without a medium, to produce a voice and vision 
through the ear, showing that His greatness has a natural order beyond what is 
customary, in order to the conversion of the hitherto unbelieving soul, and the 
reception of the commandment given. But there being a cloud and a lofty 
mountain, how is it not possible to hear a different sound, the wind moving by 
the active cause? Wherefore also the prophet says, "Ye heard the voice of words, 
and saw no similitude." You see how the Lord's voice, the Word, without shape, 
the power of the Word, the luminous word of the Lord, the truth from heaven, 
from above, coming to the assembly of the Church, wrought by the luminous 
immediate ministry. 
CHAPTER IV -- THE GREEKS DREW MANY OF THEIR PHILOSOPHICAL TENETS FROM THE 
EGYPTIAN AND INDIAN GYMNOSOPHISTS. 
We shall find another testimony in confirmation, in the fact that the best of 
the philosophers, having appropriated their most excellent dogmas from us, 
boast, as it were, of certain of the tenets which pertain to each sect being 
culled from other Barbarians, chiefly from the Egyptians -- both other tenets, 
and that especially of the transmigration of the soul. For the Egyptians pursue 
a philosophy of their own. This is principally shown by their sacred ceremonial. 
For first advances the Singer, bearing some one of the symbols of music. For 
they say that he must learn two of the books of Hermes, the one of which 
contains the hymns of the gods, the second the regulations for the king's life. 
And after the Singer advances the Astrologer, with a horologe in his hand, and a 
palm, the symbols of astrology. He must have the astrological books of Hermes, 
which are four in number, always in his mouth. Of these, one is about the order 
of the fixed stars that are visible, and another about the conjunctions and 
luminous appearances of the sun and moon; and the rest respecting their risings. 
Next in order advances the sacred Scribe, with wings on his head, and in his 
hand a book and rule, in which were writing ink and the reed, with which they 
write. And he must be acquainted with what are called hieroglyphics, and know 
about cosmography and geography, the position of the sun and moon, and about the 
five planets; also the description of Egypt, and the chart of the Nile; and the 
description of the equipment of the priests and of the places consecrated to 
them, and about the measures and the things in use in the sacred rites. Then the 
Stole-keeper follows those previously mentioned, with the cubit of justice and 
the cup for libations. He is acquainted with all points called Paedeutic 
(relating to training) and Moschophatic (sacrificial). There are also ten books 
which relate to the honour paid by them to their gods, and containing the 
Egyptian worship; as that relating to sacrifices, first-fruits, hymns, prayers, 
processions, festivals, and the like. And behind all walks the Prophet, with the 
water-vase carried openly in his arms; who is followed by those who carry the 
issue of loaves. 
He, as being the governor of the temple, learns the ten books called 
"Hieratic;" and they contain all about the laws, and the gods, and the whole of 
the training of the priests. For the Prophet is, among the Egyptians, also over 
the distribution of the revenues. There are then forty-two books of Hermes 
indispensably necessary; of which the six-and-thirty containing the whole 
philosophy of the Egyptians are learned by the forementioned personages; and the 
other six, which are medical, by the Pastophoroi (image-bearers), -- treating of 
the structure of the body, and of diseases, and instruments, and medicines, and 
about the eyes, and the last about women. Such are the customs of the Egyptians, 
to speak briefly. 
The philosophy of the Indians, too, has been celebrated. Alexander of 
Macedon, having taken ten of the Indian Gymnosophists, that seemed the best and 
most sententious, proposed to them problems, threatening to put to death him 
that did not answer to the purpose; ordering one, who was the eldest of them, to 
decide. 
The first, then, being asked whether he thought that the living were more in 
number than the dead, said, The living; for that the dead were not. The second, 
on being asked Whether the sea or the land maintained larger beasts, said, The 
land; for the sea was part of it. And the third being asked which was the most 
cunning of animals? The one, which has not hitherto been known, man. And the 
fourth being interrogated, For what reason they had made Sabba, who was their 
prince, revolt, answered, Because they wished him to live well rather than die 
ill. And the fifth being asked, Whether he thought that day or night was first, 
said, One day. For puzzling questions must have puzzling answers. And the sixth 
being posed with the query, How shall one be loved most? By being most powerful; 
in order that he may not be timid. And the seventh being asked, How any one of 
men could become God? said, If he do what it is impossible for man to do. And 
the eighth being asked, Which is the stronger, life or death? said, Life, which 
bears such ills. And the ninth being interrogated, Up to what point it is good 
for a man to live? said, Till he does not think that to die is better than to 
live. And on Alexander ordering the tenth to say something, for he was judge, he 
said, "One spake worse than another." And on Alexander saying, Shall you not, 
then, die first, having given such a judgment? he said, And how, O king, wilt 
thou prove true, after saying that thou wouldest kill first the first man that 
answered very badly? 
And that the Greeks are called pilferers of all manner of writing, is, as I 
think, sufficiently demonstrated by abundant proofs. 
CHAPTER V -- THE GREEKS HAD SOME KNOWLEDGE OF THE TRUE GOD. 
And that the men of highest repute among the Greeks knew God, not by positive 
knowledge, but by indirect expression, Peter says in the Preaching: "Know then 
that there is one God, who made the beginning of all things, and holds the power 
of the end; and is the Invisible, who sees all things; incapable of being 
contained, who contains all things; needing nothing, whom all things need, and 
by whom they are; incomprehensible, everlasting, unmade, who made all things by 
the 'Word of His power,' that is, according to the gnostic scripture, His Son." 
Then he adds: "Worship this God not as the Greeks," -- signifying plainly, 
that the excellent among the Greeks worshipped the same God as we, but that they 
had not learned by perfect knowledge that which was delivered by the Son. "Do 
not then worship," he did not say, the God whom the Greeks worship, but "as the 
Greeks," -- changing the manner of the worship of God, not announcing another 
God. What, then, the expression "not as the Greeks" means, Peter himself shall 
explain, as he adds: "Since they are carried away by ignorance, and know not 
God" (as we do, according to the perfect knowledge); "hut giving shape to the 
things of which He gave them the power for use -- stocks and stones, brass and 
iron, gold and silver -- matter; -- and setting up the things which are slaves 
for use and possession, worship them. And what God hath given to them for food 
-- the fowls of the air, and the fish of the sea, and the creeping things of the 
earth, and the wild beasts with the four-footed cattle of the field, weasels and 
mice, cats and dogs and apes, and their own proper food -- they sacrifice as 
sacrifices to mortals; and offering dead things to the dead, as to gods, are 
unthankful to God, denying His existence by these things." And that it is said, 
that we and the Greeks know the same God, though not in the same way, he will 
infer thus: "Neither worship as the Jews; for they, thinking that they only know 
God, do not know Him, adoring as they do angels and archangels, the month and 
the moon. And if the moon be not visible, they do not hold the Sabbath, which is 
called the first; nor do they hold the new moon, nor the feast of unleavened 
bread, nor the feast, nor the great day." Then he gives the finishing stroke to 
the question: "So that do ye also, learning holily and righteously what we 
deliver to you; keep them, worshipping God in a new way, by Christ." For we find 
in the Scriptures, as the Lord says: "Behold, I make with you a new covenant, 
not as I made with your fathers in Mount Horeb." He made a new covenant with us; 
for what belonged to the Greeks and Jews is old. But we, who worship Him in a 
new way, in the third form, are Christians. For clearly, as I think, he showed 
that the one and only God was known by the Greeks in a Gentile way, by the Jews 
Judaically, and in a new and spiritual way by us. 
And further, that the same God that furnished both the Covenants was the 
giver of Greek philosophy to the Greeks, by which the Almighty is glorified 
among the Greeks, he shows. And it is clear from this. Accordingly, then, from 
the Hellenic training, and also from that of the law are gathered into the one 
race of the saved people those who accept faith: not that the three peoples are 
separated by time, so that one might suppose three natures, but trained in 
different Covenants of the one Lord, by the word of the one Lord. For that, as 
God wished to save the Jews by giving to them prophets, so also by raising up 
prophets of their own in their own tongue, as they were able to receive God's 
beneficence, He distinguished the most excellent of the Greeks from the common 
herd, in addition to "Peter's Preaching," the Apostle Paul will show, saying: 
"Take also the Hellenic books, read the Sibyl, how it is shown that God is 
one, and how the future is indicated. And taking Hystaspes, read, and you will 
find much more luminously and distinctly the Son of God described, and how many 
kings shall draw up their forces against Christ, hating Him and those that bear 
His name, and His faithful ones, and His patience, and His coming." 
Then in one word he asks us, "Whose is the world, and all that is in the 
world? Are they not God's? " Wherefore Peter says, that the Lord said to the 
apostles: "If any one of Israel then, wishes to repent, and by my name to 
believe in God, his sins shall be forgiven him, after twelve years. Go forth 
into the world, that no one may say, We have not heard." 
CHAPTER VI -- THE GOSPEL WAS PREACHED TO JEWS AND GENTILES IN HADES. 
But as the proclamation [of the Gospel] has come now at the fit time, so also 
at the fit time were the Law and the Prophets given to the Barbarians, and 
Philosophy to the Greeks, to fit their ears for the Gospel. "Therefore," says 
the Lord who delivered Israel, "in an acceptable time have I heard thee, and in 
a day of salvation have I helped thee. And I have given thee for a Covenant to 
the nations; that thou mightest inhabit the earth, and receive the inheritance 
of the wilderness; saying to those that are in bonds, Come forth; and to those 
that are in darkness, Show yourselves." For if the "prisoners" are the Jews, of 
whom the Lord said, "Come forth, ye that will, from your bonds," -- meaning the 
voluntary bound, and who have taken on them "the burdens grievous to be borne" 
by human injunction -- it is plain that "those in darkness" are they who have 
the ruling faculty of the soul buried in idolatry. 
For to those who were righteous according to the law, faith was wanting. 
Wherefore also the Lord, in healing them, said, "Thy faith hath saved thee." But 
to those that were righteous according to philosophy, not only faith in the 
Lord, but also the abandonment of idolatry, were necessary. Straightway, on the 
revelation of the truth, they also repented of their previous conduct. 
Wherefore the Lord preached the Gospel to those in Hades. Accordingly the 
Scripture says, "Hades says to Destruction, We have not seen His form, but we 
have heard His voice." It is not plainly the place, which, the words above say, 
heard the voice, but those who have been put in Hades, and have abandoned 
themselves to destruction, as persons who have thrown themselves voluntarily 
from a ship into the sea. They, then, are those that hear the divine power and 
voice. For who in his senses can suppose the souls of the righteous and those of 
sinners in the same condemnation, charging Providence with injustice? 
But how? Do not [the Scriptures] show that. the Lord preached the Gospel to 
those that perished in the flood, or rather had been chained, and to those kept 
"in ward and guard"? And it has been shown also, in the second book of the 
Stromata, that the apostles, following the Lord, preached the Gospel to those in 
Hades. For it was requisite, in my opinion, that as here, so also there, the 
best of the disciples should be imitators of the Master; so that He should bring 
to repentance those belonging to the Hebrews, and they the Gentiles; that is, 
those who had lived in righteousness according to the Law and Philosophy, who 
had ended life not perfectly, but sinfully. For it was suitable to the divine 
administration, that those possessed of greater worth in righteousness, and 
whose life had been pre-eminent, on repenting of their transgressions, though 
found in another place, yet being confessedly of the number of the people of God 
Almighty, should be saved, each one according to his individual knowledge. 
And, as I think, the Saviour also exerts His might because it is His work to 
save; which accordingly He also did by drawing to salvation those who became 
willing, by the preaching [of the Gospel], to believe on Him, wherever they 
were. If, then, the Lord descended to Hades for no other end but to preach the 
Gospel, as He did descend; it was either to preach the Gospel to all or to the 
Hebrews only. If, accordingly, to all, then all who believe shall be saved, 
although they may be of the Gentiles, on making their profession there; since 
God's pun ishments are saving and disciplinary, leading to conversion, and 
choosing rather the repentance thorn the death of a sinner; and especially since 
souls, although darkened by passions, when released from their bodies, are able 
to perceive more clearly, because of their being no longer obstructed by the 
paltry flesh. 
If, then, He preached only to the Jews, who wanted the knowledge and faith of 
the Saviour, it is plain that, since God is no respecter of persons, the 
apostles also, as here, so there preached the Gospel to those of the heathen who 
were ready for conversion. And it is well said by the Shepherd, "They went down 
with them therefore into the water, and again ascended. But these descended 
alive, and again ascended alive. But those who had fallen asleep, descended 
dead, but ascended alive." Further the Gospel says, "that many bodies of those 
that slept arose," -- plainly as having been translated to a better state. There 
took place, then, a universal movement and translation through the economy of 
the Saviour. 
One righteous man, then, differs not, as righteous, from another righteous 
man, whether he be of the Law or a Greek. For God is not only Lord of the Jews, 
but of all men, and more nearly the Father of those who know Him. For if to live 
well and according to the law is to live, also to live rationally according to 
the law is to live; and those who lived rightly before the Law were classed 
under faith, and judged to be righteous, -- it is evident that those, too, who 
were outside of the Law, having lived rightly, in consequence of the peculiar' 
nature of the voice, though they are in Hades and in ward, on hearing the voice 
of the Lord, whether that of His own person or that acting through His apostles, 
with all speed turned and believed. For we remember that the Lord is "the power 
of God," and power can never be weak. 
So I think it is demonstrated that the God being good, and the Lord powerful, 
they save with a righteousness and equality which extend to all that turn to 
Him, whether here or elsewhere. For it is not here alone that the active power 
of God is beforehand, but it is everywhere and is always at work. Accordingly, 
in the Preaching of Peter, the Lord says to the disciples after the 
resurrection, "I have chosen you twelve disciples, judging you worthy of me," 
whom the Lord wished to be apostles, having judged them faithful, sending them 
into the world to the men on the earth, that they may know that there is one 
God, showing clearly what would take place by the faith of Christ; that they who 
heard and believed should be saved; and that those who believed not, after 
having heard, should bear witness, not having the excuse to allege, We have not 
heard. 
What then? Did not the same dispensation obtain in Hades, so that even there, 
all the souls, on hearing the proclamation, might either exhibit repentance, or 
confess that their punishment was just, because they believed not? And it were 
the exercise of no ordinary arbitrariness, for those who had departed before the 
advent of the Lord (not having the Gospel preached to them, and having afforded 
no ground from themselves, in consequence of believing or not) to obtain either 
salvation or punishment. For it is not right that these should be condemned 
without trial, and that those alone who lived after the advent should have the 
advantage of the divine righteousness. But to all rational souls it was said 
from above, "Whatever one of you has done in ignorance, without clearly knowing 
God, if, on becoming conscious, he repent, all his sins will be forgiven him." 
"For, behold," it is said, "I have set before your face death and life, that ye 
may choose life." "God says that He set, not that He made both, in order to the 
comparison of choice. And in another Scripture He says, "If ye hear Me, and be 
willing, ye shall eat the good of the land. But if ye hear Me not, and are not 
willing, the sword shall devour you: for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken these 
things." 
Again, David expressly (or rather the Lord in the person of the saint, and 
the same from the foundation of the world is each one who at different periods 
is saved, and shall be saved by faith) says, "My heart was glad, and my tongue 
rejoiced, and my flesh shall still rest in hope. For Thou shalt not leave my 
soul in hell, nor wilt Thou give Thine holy one to see corruption. Thou hast 
made known to me the paths of life, Thou wilt make me full of joy in Thy 
presence." As, then, the people was precious to the Lord, so also is the entire 
holy people; he also who is converted from the Gentiles, who was prophesied 
under the name of proselyte, along with the Jew. For rightly the Scripture says, 
that "the ox and the bear shall come together." For the Jew is designated by the 
ox, from the animal under the yoke being reckoned clean, according to the law; 
for the ox both parts the hoof and chews the cud. And the Gentile is designated 
by the bear, which is an unclean and wild beast. And this animal brings forth a 
shapeless lump of flesh, which it shapes into the likeness of a beast solely by 
its tongue. For he who is convened from among the Gentiles is formed from a 
beastlike life to gentleness by the word; and, when once tamed, is made clean, 
just as the ox. For example, the prophet says, "The sirens, and the daughters of 
the sparrows, and all the beasts of the field, shall bless me." Of the number of 
unclean animals, the wild beasts of the field are known to be, that is, of the 
world; since those who are wild in respect of faith, and polluted in life, and 
not purified by the righteousness which is according to the law, are called wild 
beasts. But changed from wild beasts by the faith of the Lord, they become men 
of God, advancing from the wish to change to the fact. For some the Lord 
exhorts, and to those who have already made the attempt he stretches forth His 
hand, and draws them up. "For the Lord dreads not the face of any one, nor will 
He regard greatness; for He hath made small and great, and cares alike for all." 
And David says, "For the heathen are fixed in the destruction they have caused; 
their foot is taken in the snare which they hid." s "But the Lord was a refuge 
to the poor, a help in season also in affliction." Those, then, that were in 
affliction had the Gospel seasonably proclaimed. And therefore it said, "Declare 
among the heathen his pursuits," that they may not be judged unjustly. 
If, then, He preached the Gospel to those in the flesh that they might not be 
condemned unjustly, how is it conceivable that He did not for the same cause 
preach the Gospel to those who had departed this life before His advent? "For 
the righteous Lord loveth righteousness: His countenance beholdeth uprightness." 
"But he that loveth wickedness hateth his own soul." 
If, then, in the deluge all sinful flesh perished, punishment having been 
inflicted on them for correction, we must first believe that the will of God, 
which is disciplinary and beneficent, saves those who turn to Him. Then, too, 
the more subtle substance, the soul, could never receive any injury from the 
grosser element of water, its subtle and simple nature rendering it impalpable, 
called as it is incorporeal. But whatever is gross, made so in consequence of 
sin, this is cast away along with the carnal spirit which lusts against the 
soul. 
Now also Valentinus, the Coryphaeus of those who herald community, in his 
book on The Intercourse of Friends, writes in these words: "Many of the things 
that are written, though in common hooks, are found written in the church of 
God. For those sayings which proceed from the heart are vain. For the law 
written in the heart is the People of the Beloved -- loved and loving Him." For 
whether it be the Jewish writings or those of the philosophers that he calls 
"the Common Books," he makes the truth common. And Isidore," at once son and 
disciple to Basilides, in the first hook of the Expositions of the Prophet 
Parchor, writes also in these words: "The Attics say that certain things were 
intimated to Socrates, in consequence of a daemon attending on him. And 
Aristotle says that all men are provided with daemons, that attend on them 
during the time they are in the body,-having taken this piece of prophetic 
instruction and transferred it to his own books, without acknowledging whence he 
had abstracted this statement." And again, in the second book of his work, he 
thus writes: "And let no one think that what we say is peculiar to the elect, 
was said before by any philosophers. For it is not a discovery of theirs. For 
having appropriated it from our prophets, they attributed it to him who is wise 
according to them." Again, in the same: "For to me it appears that those who 
profess to philosophize, do so that they may learn what is the winged oak,'" and 
the variegated robe on it, all of which Pherecydes has employed as theological 
allegories, having taken them from the prophecy of Chum." 
CHAPTER VII -- WHAT TRUE PHILOSOPHY IS, AND WHENCE SO CALLED. 
As we have long ago pointed out, what we propose as our subject is not the 
discipline which obtains in each sect, but that which is really philosophy, 
strictly systematic Wisdom, which furnishes acquaintance with the things which 
pertain to life. And we define Wisdom to be certain knowledge, being a sure and 
irrefragable apprehension of things divine and human, comprehending the present, 
past, and future, which the Lord hath taught us, both by His advent and by the 
prophets. And it is irrefragable by reason, inasmuch as it has been 
communicated. And so it is wholly true according to [God's] intention, as being 
known through means of the Son. And in one aspect it is eternal, and in another 
it becomes useful in time. Partly it is one and the same, partly many and 
indifferent -- partly without any movement of passion, partly with passionate 
desire -- partly perfect, partly incomplete. 
This wisdom, then -- rectitude of soul and of reason, and purity of life -- 
is the object of the desire of philosophy, which is kindly and lovingly disposed 
towards wisdom, and does everything to attain it. 
Now those are called philosophers, among us, who love Wisdom, the Creator and 
Teacher of all things, that is, the knowledge of the Son of God; and among the 
Greeks, those who undertake arguments on virtue. Philosophy, then, consists of 
such dogmas found in each sect (I mean those of philosophy) as cannot be 
impugned, with a corresponding life, collected into one selection; and these, 
stolen from the Barbarian God-given grace, have been adorned by Greek speech. 
For some they have borrowed, and others they have misunderstood. And in the case 
of others, what they have spoken, in consequence of being moved, they have not 
yet perfectly worked out; and others by human conjecture and reasoning, in which 
also they stumble. And they think that they have hit the truth perfectly; but as 
we understand them, only partially. They know, then, nothing more than this 
world. And it is just like geometry, which treats of measures and magnitudes and 
forms, by delineation on plane-surfaces; and just as painting appears to take in 
the whole field of view in the scenes represented. But it gives a false 
description of the view, according to the rules of the art, employing the signs 
that result from the incidents of the lines of vision. By this means, the higher 
and lower points in the view, and those between, are preserved; and some objects 
seem to appear in the foreground, and others in the background, and others to 
appear in some other way, on the smooth and level surface. So also the 
philosophers copy the truth, after the manner of painting. And always in the 
case of each one of them, their self-love is the cause of all their mistakes. 
Wherefore one ought not, in the desire for the glory that terminates in men, to 
be animated by self-love; but loving God, to become really holy with wisdom. If, 
then, one treats what is particular as universal, and regards that, which 
serves, as the Lord, he misses the truth, not understanding what was spoken by 
David by way of confession: "I have eaten earth [ashes] like bread." Now, 
self-love and self-conceit are, in his view, earth and error. But if so, science 
and knowledge are derived from instruction. And if there is instruction, you 
must seek for the master. Cleanthes claims Zeno, and Metrodorus Epicurus, and 
Theophrastus Aristotle, and Plato Socrates. But if I Come to Pythagoras, and 
Pherecydes, and Thales, and the first wise men, I come to a stand in my search 
for their teacher. Should you say the Egyptians, the Indians, the Babylonians, 
and the Magi themselves, I will not stop from asking their teacher. And I lead 
you up to the first generation of men; and from that point I begin to 
investigate Who is their teacher. No one of men; for they had not yet learned. 
Nor yet any of the angels: for in the way that angels, in virtue of being 
angels, speak, men do not hear; nor, as we have ears, have they a tongue to 
correspond; nor would any one attribute to the angels organs of speech, lips I 
mean, and the parts contiguous, throat, and windpipe, and chest, breath and air 
to vibrate, And God is far from calling aloud in the unapproachable sanctity, 
separated as He is from even the archangels. 
And we also have already heard that angels learned the truth, and their 
rulers over them; for they had a beginning. It remains, then, for us, ascending 
to seek their teacher. And since the unoriginated Being is one, the Omnipotent 
God; one, too, is the First-begotten, "by whom all things were made, and without 
whom not one thing ever was made." "For one, in truth, is God, who formed the 
beginning of all things;" pointing out "the first-begotten Son," Peter writes, 
accurately comprehending the statement, "In the beginning God made the heaven 
and the earth." And He is called Wisdom by all the prophets. This is He who is 
the Teacher of all created beings, the Fellow-counsellor of God, who foreknew 
all things; and He from above, from the first foundation of the world, "in many 
ways and many times," trains and perfects; whence it is rightly said, "Call no 
man your teacher on earth." 
You see whence the true philosophy has its handles; though the Law be the 
image and shadow of the truth: for the Law is the shadow of the truth. But the 
self-love of the Greeks proclaims certain men as their teachers. As, then, the 
whole family runs back to God the Creator; so also all the teaching of good 
things, which justifies, does to the Lord, and leads and contributes to this. 
But if from any creature they received in any way whatever the seeds of the 
Truth, they did not nourish them; but committing them to a barren and reinless 
soil, they choked them with weeds, as the Pharisees revolted from the Law, by 
introducing human teachings, -- the cause of these being not the Teacher, but 
those who choose to disobey. But those of them who believed the Lord's advent 
and the plain teaching of the Scriptures, attain to the knowledge of the law; as 
also those addicted to philosophy, by the teaching of the Lord, are introduced 
into the knowledge of the true philosophy: "For the oracles of the Lord are pure 
oracles, melted in the fire, tried in the earth, purified seven times." Just as 
silver often purified, so is the just man brought to the test, becoming the 
Lord's coin and receiving the royal image. Or, since Solomon also calls the 
"tongue of the righteous man gold that has been subjected to fire," intimating 
that the doctrine which has been proved, and is wise, is to be praised and 
received, whenever it is amply tried by the earth: that is, when the gnostic 
soul is in manifold ways sanctified, through withdrawal from earthy fires. And 
the body in which it dwells is purified, being appropriated to the pureness of a 
holy temple. But the first purification which takes place in the body, the soul 
being first, is abstinence from evil things, which some consider perfection, and 
is, in truth, the perfection of the common believer -- Jew and Greek. But in the 
case of the Gnostic, after that which is reckoned perfection in others, his 
righteousness advances to activity in well-doing. And in whomsoever the 
increased force of righteousness advances to the doing of good, in his case 
perfection abides in the fixed habit of well-doing after the likeness of God. 
For those who are the seed of Abraham, and besides servants of God, are "the 
called;" and the sons of Jacob are the elect -- they who have tripped up the 
energy of wickedness. 
If; then, we assert that Christ Himself is Wisdom, and that it was His 
working which showed itself in the prophets, by which the gnostic tradition may 
be learned, as He Himself taught the apostles during His presence; then it 
follows that the grinds, which is the knowledge and apprehension of things 
present, future, and past, which is sure and reliable, as being imparted and 
revealed by the Son of God, is wisdom. 
And if, too, the end of the wise man is contemplation, that of those who are 
still philosophers aims at it, but never attains it, unless by the process of 
learning it receives the prophetic utterance which has been made known, by which 
it grasps both the present, the future, and the past -- how they are, were, and 
shall be. 
And the gnosis itself is that which has descended by transmission to a few, 
having been imparted unwritten by the apostles. Hence, then, knowledge or wisdom 
ought to be exercised up to the eternal and unchangeable habit of contemplation. 

CHAPTER VIII -- PHILOSOPHY IS KNOWLEDGE GIVEN BY GOD. 
For Paul too, in the Epistles, plainly does not disparage philosophy; but 
deems it unworthy of the man who has attained to the elevation of the Gnostic, 
any more to go back to the Hellenic "philosophy," figuratively calling it "the 
rudiments of this world," as being most rudimentary, and a preparatory training 
for the truth. Wherefore also, writing to the Hebrews, who were declining again 
from faith to the law, he says," Have ye not need again of one to teach you 
which are the first principles of the oracles of God, and are become such as 
have need of milk, and not of strong meat?" So also to the Colossians, who were 
Greek converts, "Beware lest any man spoil you by philosophy and vain deceit, 
after the tradition of men, after the rudiments of this world, and not after 
Christ," -- enticing them again to return to philosophy, the elementary 
doctrine. 
And should one say that it was through human understanding that philosophy 
was discovered by the Greeks, still I find the Scriptures saying that 
understanding is sent by God. The psalmist, accordingly, considers understanding 
as the greatest free gift, and beseeches, saying," I am Thy servant; give me 
understanding."s And does not David, while asking the abundant experience of 
knowledge, write, "Teach me gentleness, and discipline, and knowledge: for I 
have believed in Thy commandments?" He confessed the covenants to be of the 
highest authority, and that they were given to the more excellent. Accordingly 
the psalm again says of God, "He hath not done thus to any nation; and He hath 
not shown His judgments to them." The expression "He hath not done so" shows 
that He hath done, but not "thus." The "thus," then, is put comparatively, with 
reference to pre-eminence, which obtains in our case. The prophet might have 
said simply, "He hath not done," without the "thus." 
Further, Peter in the Acts says, "Of a truth, I perceive that God is no 
respecter of persons; but in every nation he that feareth Him, and worketh 
righteousness, is accepted by Him." 
The absence of respect of persons in God is not then in time, but from 
eternity. Nor had His beneficence a beginning; nor any more is it limited to 
places or persons. For His beneficence is not confined to parts. "Open ye the 
gates of righteousness," it is said; "entering into them, I will confess to the 
Lord. This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous shall enter by it." Explaining 
the prophet's saying, Barnabas adds, "There being many gates open, that which is 
in righteousness is the gate which is in Christ, by which all who enter are 
blessed." Bordering on the same meaning is also the following prophetic 
utterance: "The Lord is on many waters;" not the different covenants alone, but 
the modes of teaching, those among the Greek and those among the Barbarians, 
conducing to righteousness. And already clearly David, bearing testimony to the 
truth, sings, "Let sinners be turned into Hades, and all the nations that forget 
God." They forget, plainly, Him whom they formerly remembered, and dismiss Him 
whom they knew previous to forgetting Him. There was then a dim knowledge of God 
also among the nations. So much for those points. 
Now the Gnostic must be erudite. And since the Greeks say that Protagoras 
having led the way, the opposing of one argument by another was invented, it is 
fitting that something be said with reference to arguments of this sort. For 
Scripture says, "He that says much, shall also hear in his turn." And who shall 
understand a parable of the Lord, but the wise, the intelligent, and he that 
loves his Lord? Let such a man be faithful; let him be capable of uttering his 
knowledge; let him be wise in the discrimination of words; let him be dexterous 
in action; let him be pure. "The greater he seems to be, the more humble should 
he be," says Clement in the Epistle to the Corinthians, -- "such an one as is 
capable of complying with the precept, 'And some pluck from the fire, and on 
others have compassion, making a difference,'" 
The pruning-hook is made, certainly, principally for pruning; but with it we 
separate twigs that have got intertwined, cut the thorns which grow along with 
the vines, which it is not very easy to reach. And all these things have a 
reference to pruning. Again, man is made principally for the knowledge of God; 
but he also measures land, practises agriculture, and philosophizes; of which 
pursuits, one conduces to life, another to living well, a third to the study of 
the things which are capable of demonstration. Further, let those who say that 
philosophy took its rise from the devil know this, that the Scripture says that 
"the devil is transformed into an angel of light." When about to do what? 
Plainly, when about to prophesy. But if he prophesies as an angel of light, he 
will speak what is true. And if he prophesies what is angelical, and of the 
light, then he prophesies what is beneficial when he is transformed according to 
the likeness of the operation, though he be different with respect to the matter 
of apostasy. For how could he deceive any one, without drawing the lover of 
knowledge into fellowship, and so drawing him afterwards into falsehood? 
Especially he will be found to know the truth, if not so as to comprehend it, 
yet so as not to be unacquainted with it. 
Philosophy is not then false, though the thief and the liar speak truth, 
through a transformation of operation. Nor is sentence of condemnation to be 
pronounced ignorantly against what is said, on account of him who says it (which 
also is to be kept in view, in the case of those who are now alleged to 
prophesy); but what is said must be looked at, to see if it keep by the truth. 
And in general terms, we shall not err in alleging that all things necessary 
and profitable for life came to us from God, and that philosophy more especially 
was given to the Greeks, as a covenant peculiar to them -- being, as it is, a 
stepping-stone to the philosophy which is according to Christ -- although those 
who applied themselves to the philosophy of the Greeks shut their ears 
voluntarily to the truth, despising the voice of Barbarians, or also dreading 
the danger suspended over the believer, by the laws of the state. 
And as in the Barbarian philosophy, so also in the Hellenic, "tares were 
sown" by the proper husbandman of the tares; whence also heresies grew up among 
us along with the productive wheat; and those who in the Hellenic philosophy 
preach the impiety and voluptuousness of Epicurus, and whatever other tenets are 
disseminated contrary to right reason, exist among the Greeks as spurious fruits 
of the divinely bestowed husbandry. This voluptuous and selfish philosophy the 
apostle calls "the wisdom of this world;" in consequence of its teaching the 
things of this world and about it alone, and its consequent subjection, as far 
as respects ascendancy, to those who rule here. Wherefore also this fragmentary 
philosophy is very elementary, while truly perfect science deals with 
intellectual objects, which are beyond the sphere of the world, and with the 
objects still more spiritual than those which "eye saw not, and ear heard not, 
nor did it enter into the heart of men," till the Teacher told the account of 
them to us; unveiling the holy of holies; and in ascending order, things still 
holier than these, to those who are truly and not spuriously heirs of the Lord's 
adoption. For we now dare aver (for here is the faith that is characterized by 
knowledge ) that such an one knows all things, and comprehends all things in the 
exercise of sure apprehension, respecting matters difficult for us, and really 
pertaining to the true gnosis such as were James, Peter, John, Paul, and the 
rest of the apostles. For prophecy is full of knowledge (gnosis), inasmuch as it 
was given by the Lord, and again explained by the Lord to the apostles. And is 
not knowledge (gnosis) an attribute of the rational soul, which trains itself 
for this, that by knowledge it may become entitled to immortality? For both are 
powers of the soul both knowledge and impulse. And impulse is found to be a 
movement after an assent. For he who has an impulse towards an action, first 
receives the knowledge of the action, and secondly the impulse. Let us further 
devote our attention to this. For since learning is older than action; (for 
naturally, he who does what he wishes to do learns it first; and knowledge comes 
from learning, and impulse follows knowledge; after which comes action;) 
knowledge turns out the beginning and author of all rational action. So that 
rightly the peculiar nature of the rational soul is characterized by this alone; 
for in reality impulse, like knowledge, is excited by existing objects. And 
knowledge (gnosis) is essentially a contemplation of existences on the part of 
the soul, either of a certain thing or of certain things, and when perfected, of 
all together. Although some say that the wise man is persuaded that there are 
some things incomprehensible, in such wise as to have respecting them a kind of 
comprehension, inasmuch as he comprehends that things incomprehensible are 
incomprehensible; which is common, and pertains to those who are capable of 
perceiving little. For such a man affirms that there are some things 
incomprehensible. 
But that Gnostic of whom I speak, himself comprehends what seems to be 
incomprehensible to others; believing that nothing is incomprehensible to the 
Son of God, whence nothing incapable of being taught. For He who suffered out of 
His love for us, would have suppressed no element of knowledge requisite for our 
instruction. Accordingly this faith becomes sure demonstration; since truth 
follows what has been delivered by God. But if one desires extensive knowledge, 
"he knows things ancient, and conjectures things future; he understands knotty 
sayings, and the solutions of enigmas. The disciple of wisdom foreknows signs 
and omens, and the issues of seasons and of times." 
CHAPTER IX -- THE GNOSTIC FREE OF ALL PERTURBATIONS OF THE SOUL. 
The Gnostic is such, that he is subject only to the affections that exist for 
the maintenance of the body, such as hunger, thirst, and the like. But in the 
case of the Saviour, it were ludicrous [to suppose] that the body, as a body, 
demanded the necessary aids in order to its duration. For He ate, not for the 
sake of the body, which was kept together by a holy energy, but in order that it 
might not enter into the minds of those who were with Him to entertain a 
different opinion of Him; in like manner as certainly some afterwards supposed 
that He appeared in a phantasmal shape (dokhsei). But He was entirely 
impassible (apaqhg); inaccessible to any movement of feeling -- either 
pleasure or pain. While the apostles, having most gnostically mastered, through 
the Lord's teaching, angel and fear, and lust, were not liable even to such of 
the movements of feeling, as seem good, courage, zeal, joy, desire, through a 
steady condition of mind, not changing a whit; but ever continuing unvarying in 
a state of training after the resurrection of the Lord. 
And should it be granted that the affections specified above, when produced 
rationally, are good, yet they are nevertheless inadmissible in the case of the 
perfect man, who is incapable of exercising courage: for neither does he meet 
what inspires fear, as he regards none of the things that occur in life as to be 
dreaded; nor can aught dislodge him from this -- the love he has towards God. 
Nor does he need cheerfulness of mind; for he does not fall into pain, being 
persuaded that all things happen well. Nor is he angry; for there is nothing to 
move him to anger, seeing he ever loves God, and is entirely turned towards Him 
alone, and therefore hates none of God's creatures. No more does he envy; for 
nothing is wanting to him, that is requisite to assimilation, in order that he 
may be excellent and good. Nor does he consequently love any one with this 
common affection, but loves the Creator in the creatures. Nor, consequently, 
does he fall into any desire and eagerness; nor does he want, as far as respects 
his soul, aught appertaining to others, now that he associates through love with 
the Beloved One, to whom he is allied by free choice, and by the habit which 
results from training, approaches closer to Him, and is blessed through the 
abundance of good things. 
So that on these accounts he is compelled to become like his Teacher in 
impassibility. For the Word of God is intellectual, according as the image of 
mind is seen 'in man alone. Thus also the good man is godlike in form and 
semblance as respects his soul. And, on the other hand, God is like man. For the 
distinctive form of each one is the mind by which we are characterized. 
Consequently, also, those who sin against man are unholy and impious. For it 
were ridiculous to say that the gnostic and perfect man must not eradicate anger 
and courage, inasmuch as without these he will not struggle against 
circumstances, or abide what is terrible. But if we take from him desire; he 
will be quite overwhelmed by troubles, and therefore depart from this life very 
basely. Unless possessed of it, as some suppose, he will not conceive a desire 
for what is like the excellent and the good. If, then, all alliance with what is 
good is accompanied with desire, how, it is said, does he remain impassible who 
desires what is excellent? 
But these people know not, as appears, the divinity of love. For love is not 
desire on the part of him who loves; but is a relation of affection, restoring 
the Gnostic to the unity of the faith, -- independent of time and place. But he 
who by love is already in the midst of that in which he is destined to be, and 
has anticipated hope by knowledge, does not desire anything, having, as far as 
possible, the very thing desired. Accordingly, as to be expected, he continues 
in the exercise of gnostic love, in the one unvarying state. 
Nor will he, therefore, eagerly desire to be assimilated to what is 
beautiful, possessing, as he does, beauty by love. What more need of courage and 
of desire to him, who has obtained the affinity to the impassible God which 
arises from love, and by love has enrolled himself among the friends of God? 
We must therefore rescue the gnostic and perfect man from all passion of the 
soul. For knowledge (gnosis) produces practice, and practice habit or 
disposition; and such a state as this produces impassibility, not moderation of 
passion. And the complete eradication of desire reaps as its fruit 
impassibility. But the Gnostic does not share either in those affections that 
are commonly celebrated as good, that is, the good things of the affections 
which are allied to the passions: such, I mean, as gladness, which is allied to 
pleasure; and dejection, for this is conjoined with pain; and caution, for it is 
subject to fear. Nor yet does he share in high spirit, for it takes its place 
alongside of wrath; although some say that these are no longer evil, but already 
good. For it is impossible that he who has been once made perfect by love, and 
feasts eternally and insatiably on the boundless joy of contemplation, should 
delight in small and grovelling things. For what rational cause remains any more 
to the man who has gained "the light inaccessible," for revering to the good 
things of the world? Although not yet true as to time and place, yet by that 
gnostic love through which the inheritance and perfect restitution follow, the 
giver of the reward makes good by deeds what the Gnostic, by gnostic choice, had 
grasped by anticipation through love. 
For by going away to the Lord, for the love he bears Him, though his 
tabernacle be visible on earth, he does not withdraw himself from life. For that 
is not permitted to him. But he has withdrawn his soul from the passions. For 
that is granted to him. And on the other hand he lives, having put to death his 
lusts, and no longer makes use of the body, but allows it the use of 
necessaries, that he may not give cause for dissolution. 
How, then, has he any more need of fortitude, who is not in the midst of 
dangers, being not present, but already wholly with the object of love? And what 
necessity for self-restraint to him who has not need of it? For to have such 
desires, as require self-restraint in order to their control, is characteristic 
of one who is not yet pure, but subject to passion. Now, fortitude is assumed by 
reason of fear and cowardice. For it were no longer seemly that the friend of 
God, whom "God hath fore-ordained before the foundation of the world" to be 
enrolled in the highest "adoption," should fall into pleasures or fears, and be 
occupied in the repression of the passions. For I venture to assert, that as he 
is predestinated through what he shall do, and what he shall obtain, so also has 
he predestinated himself by reason of what he knew and whom he loved; not having 
the future indistinct, as the multitude live, conjecturing it, but having 
grasped by gnostic faith what is hidden from others. And through love, the 
future is for him already present. For he has believed, through prophecy and the 
advent, on God who lies not. And what he believes he possesses, and keeps hold 
of the promise. And He who hath promised is truth. And through the 
trustworthiness of Him who has promised, he has firmly laid hold of the end of 
the promise by knowledge. And he, who knows the sure comprehension of the future 
which there is in the circumstances, in which he is placed, by love goes to meet 
the future. So he, that is persuaded that he will obtain the things that are 
really good, will not pray to obtain what is here, but that he may always cling 
to the faith which hits the mark and succeeds. And besides, he will pray that as 
many as possible may become like him, to the glory of God, which is perfected 
through knowledge. For he who is made like the Saviour is also devoted to 
saving; performing unerringly the commandments as far as the human nature may 
admit of the image. And this is to worship God by deeds and knowledge of the 
true righteousness. The Lord will not wait for the voice of this man in prayer. 
"Ask," He says, "and I will do it; think, and I will give." 
For, in fine, it is impossible that the immutable should assume firmness and 
consistency in the mutable. But the ruling faculty being in perpetual change, 
and therefore unstable, the force of habit is not maintained. For how can he who 
is perpetually changed by external occurrences mad accidents, ever possess habit 
and disposition, and in a word, grasp of scientific knowledge (episthmh)? 
Further, also, the philosophers regard the virtues as habits, dispositions, and 
sciences. And as knowledge (gnosis) is not born with men, but is acquired, and 
the acquiring of it in its elements demands application, and training, and 
progress; and then from incessant practice it passes into a habit; so, when 
perfected in the mystic habit, it abides, being infallible through love. For not 
only has he apprehended the first Cause, and the Cause produced by it, and is 
sure about them, possessing firmly firm and irrefragable and immoveable reasons; 
but also respecting what is good and what is evil, and respecting all 
production, and to speak comprehensively, respecting all about Which the Lord 
has spoken, he has learned, from the truth itself, the most exact truth from the 
foundation of the world to the end. Not preferring to the truth itself what 
appears plausible, or, according to Hellenic reasoning, necessary; but what has 
been spoken by the Lord he accepts as clear and evident, though concealed from 
others; and he has already received the knowledge of all things. And the oracles 
we possess give their utterances respecting what exists, as it is; and 
respecting what is future, as it shall be; and respecting what is past, as it 
was. 
In scientific matters, as being alone possessed of scientific knowledge, he 
will hold the pre-eminence, and will discourse on the discussion respecting the 
good, ever intent on intellectual objects, tracing out his procedure in human 
affairs from the archetypes above; as navigators direct the ship according to 
the star; prepared to hold himself in readiness for every suitable action; 
accustomed to despise all difficulties and dangers when it is necessary to 
undergo them; never doing anything precipitate or incongruous either to himself 
or the common weal; fore-seeing; and inflexible by pleasures both of waking 
hours and of dreams. For, accustomed to spare living and frugality, he is 
moderate, active, mad grave; requiring few necessaries for life; occupying 
himself with nothing superfluous. But desiring not even these things as chief, 
but by reason of fellowship in life, as necessary for his sojourn in life, as 
far as necessary. 
CHAPTER X -- THE GNOSTIC AVAILS HIMSELF OF THE HELP OF ALL HUMAN KNOWLEDGE. 
For to him knowledge (gnosis) is the principal thing. Consequently, 
therefore, he applies to the subjects that are a training for knowledge, taking 
from each branch of study its contribution to the truth. Prosecuting, then, the 
proportion of harmonies in music; and in arithmetic noting the increasing and 
decreasing of numbers, and their relations to one another, and how the most of 
things fall under some proportion of numbers; studying geometry, which is 
abstract essence, he perceives a continuous distance, and an immutable essence 
which is different from these bodies. And by astronomy, again, raised from the 
earth in his mind, he is elevated along with heaven, and will revolve with its 
revolution; studying ever divine things, and their harmony with each other; from 
which Abraham starting, ascended to the knowledge of Him who created them. 
Further, the Gnostic will avail himself of dialectics, fixing on the distinction 
of genera into species, and will master the distinction of existences, till he 
come to what are primary and simple. 
But the multitude are frightened at the Hellenic philosophy, as children are 
at masks, being afraid lest it lead them astray. But if the faith (for I cannot 
call it knowledge) which they possess be such as to be dissolved by plausible 
speech, let it be by all means dissolved, and let them confess that they will 
not retain the truth. For truth is immoveable; but false opinion dissolves. We 
choose, for instance, one purple by comparison with another purple. So that, if 
one confesses that he has not a heart that has been made right, he has not the 
table of the money-changers or the test of words. And how can he be any longer a 
money-changer, who is not able to prove and distinguish spurious coin, even 
offhand? 
Now David cried, "The righteous shall not be shaken for ever;" neither, 
consequently, by deceptive speech nor by erring pleasure. 
Whence he shall never be shaken from his own heritage. "He shall not be 
afraid of evil tidings; " consequently neither of unfounded calumny, nor of the 
false opinion around him. No more will he dread cunning words, who is capable of 
distinguishing them, or of answering rightly to questions asked. Such a bulwark 
are dialectics, that truth cannot be trampled under foot by the Sophists. "For 
it behoves those who praise in the holy name of the Lord," according to the 
prophet, "to rejoice in heart, seeking, the Lord. Seek then Him, and be strong. 
Seek His face continually in every way." "For, having spoken at sundry times and 
in divers manners," it is not in one way only that He is known. 
It is, then, not by availing himself of these as virtues that our Gnostic 
will be deeply learned. But by using them as helps in distinguishing what is 
common and what is peculiar, he will admit the truth. For the cause of all error 
and false opinion, is inability to distinguish in what respect things are 
common, and in what respects they differ. For unless, in things that are 
distinct, one closely watch speech, he will inadvertently confound what is 
common and what is peculiar And where this takes place, he must of necessity 
fall into pathless tracts and error. 
The distinction of names and things also in the Scriptures themselves 
produces great light in men's souls. For it is necessary to understand 
expressions which signify several things, and several expressions when they 
signify one thing. The result of which is accurate answering. But it is 
necessary to avoid the great futility which occupies itself in irrelevant 
matters; since the Gnostic avails himself of branches of learning as auxiliary 
preparatory exercises, in order to the accurate communication of the truth, as 
far as attainable and with as little distraction as possible, and for defence 
against reasonings that plot for the extinction of the truth. He will not then 
be deficient in what contributes to proficiency in the curriculum of studies and 
the Hellenic philosophy; but not principally, but necessarily, secondarily, and 
on account of circumstances. For what those labouring in heresies use wickedly, 
the Gnostic will use tightly. 
Therefore the truth that appears in the Hellenic philosophy, being partial, 
the real truth, like the sun glancing on the colours both white and black, shows 
what like each of them is. So also it exposes all sophistical plausibility. 
Rightly, then, was it proclaimed also by the Greeks: "Truth the queen is the 
beginning of great virtue." 
CHAPTER XI -- THE MYSTICAL MEANINGS IN THE PROPORTIONS OF NUMBERS, 
GEOMETRICAL RATIOS, AND MUSIC. 
As then in astronomy we have Abraham as an instance, so also in arithmetic we 
have the same Abraham. "For, hearing that Lot was taken captive, and having 
numbered his own servants, born in his house, 318 (tih )," he defeats a 
very great number of the enemy. 
They say, then, that the character representing 300 is, as to shape, the type 
of the Lord's sign, and that the Iota and the Eta indicate the Saviour's name; 
that it was indicated, accordingly, that Abraham's domestics were in salvation, 
who having fled to the Sign and the Name became lords of the captives, and of 
the very many unbelieving nations that followed them. 
Now the number 300 is, 3 by 100. Ten is allowed to be the perfect number. And 
8 is the first cube, which is equality in all the dimensions -- length, breadth; 
depth. "The days of men shall be," it is said, "120 (rk) years." And the 
sum is made up of the numbers from r to 15 added together. And the moon at 15 
days is full. 
On another principle, 120 is a triangular number, and consists of the 
equality of the number 64, [which consists of eight of the odd numbers beginning 
with unity], the addition of which (1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15) in succession 
generate squares; and of the inequality of the number 56, consisting of seven of 
the even numbers beginning with 2 (2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14), which produce the 
numbers that are not squares 
Again, according to another way of indicating. the number 120 consists of 
four numbers -- of one triangle, 15; of another, a square, 25; of a third, a 
pentagon, 35; and of a fourth, a hexagon, 45. The 5 is taken according to the 
same ratio in each mode. For in triangular numbers, from the unity 5 comes 15; 
and in squares, 25; and of those in succession, proportionally. Now 25, which is 
the number 5 from unity, is said to be the symbol of the Levitical tribe. And 
the number 35 depends also on the arithmetic, geometric, and harmonic scale of 
doubles -- 6, 8, 9, 12; the addition of which makes 35. In these days, the Jews 
say that seven months' children are formed. And the number 45 depends on the 
scale of triples -- 6, 9, 12, 18 -- the addition of which makes 45; and 
similarly, in these days they say that nine months' children are formed. 
Such, then, is the style of the example in arithmetic. And let the testimony 
of geometry be the tabernacle that was constructed, and the ark that was 
fashioned, -- constructed in most regular proportions, and through divine ideas, 
by the gift of understanding, which leads us from things of sense to 
intellectual objects, or rather from these to holy things, and to the holy of 
holies. For the squares of wood indicate that the square form, producing fight 
angles, pervades all, and points out security. And the length of the structure 
was three hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty, and the height thirty; and 
above, the ark ends in a cubit, narrowing to a cubit from the broad base like a 
pyramid, the symbol of those who are purified and tested by fire. And this 
geometrical proportion has a place, for the transport of those holy abodes, 
whose differences are indicated by the differences of the numbers set down 
below. 
And the numbers introduced are sixfold, as three hundred is six times fifty; 
and tenfold, as three hundred is ten times thirty; and containing one and 
two-thirds (epidimoiroi), for fifty is one and two-thirds of thirty. 
Now there are some who say that three hundred cubits are the symbol of the 
Lord's sign; and fifty, of hope and of the remission given at Pentecost; and 
thirty, or as in some, twelve, they say points out the preaching [of the 
Gospel]; because the LOrd preached in His thirtieth year; and the apostles were 
twelve. And the structure's terminating in a cubit is the symbol of the 
advancement of the righteous to oneness and to "the unity of the faith." 
And the table which was in the temple was six cubits; and its four feet were 
about a cubit and a half. 
They add, then, the twelve cubits, agreeably to the revolution of the twelve 
months, in the annual circle, during which the earth produces and matures all 
things; adapting itself to the four seasons. And the table, in my opinion, 
exhibits the image of the earth, supported as it is on four feet, summer, 
autumn, spring, winter, by which the year travels. Wherefore also it is said 
that the table has "wavy chains;" either because the universe revolves in the 
circuits of the times, or perhaps it indicated the earth surrounded with ocean's 
tide. 
Further, as an example of music, let us adduce David, playing at once and 
prophesying, melodiously praising God. Now the Enarmonic s suits best the Dorian 
harmony, and the Diatonic the Phrygian, as Aristoxenus says. The harmony, 
therefore, of the Barbarian psaltery, which exhibited gravity of strain, being 
the most ancient, most certainly became a model for Terpander, for the Dorian 
harmony, who sings the praise of Zeus thus: "O Zeus, of all things the 
Beginning, Rule, of, all; O Zeus, I send thee this beginning of hymns." 
The lyre, according to its primary signification, may by the psalmist be used 
figuratively for the Lord; according to its secondary, for those who continually 
strike the chords of their souls under the direction of the Choir-master, the 
Lord. And if the people saved be called the lyre, it will be understood to be in 
consequence of their giving glory musically, through the inspiration of the Word 
and the knowledge of God, being struck by the Word so as to produce faith. You 
may take music in another way, as the ecclesiastical symphony at once of the law 
and the prophets, and the apostles along with the Gospel, and the harmony which 
obtained in each prophet, in the transitions of the persons. 
But, as seems, the most of those who are inscribed with the Name, like the 
companions of Ulysses, handle the word unskilfully, passing by not the Sirens, 
but the rhythm and the melody, stopping their ears with ignorance; since they 
know that, after lending their ears to Hellenic studies, they will never 
subsequently be able to retrace their steps. 
But he who culls what is useful for the advantage of the catechumens, and 
especially when they are Greeks (and the earth is the Lord's, and the fulness 
thereof ), must not abstain from erudition, like irrational animals; but he must 
collect as many aids as possible for his hearers. But he must by no means linger 
over these studies, except solely for the advantage accruing from them; so that, 
on grasping and obtaining this, he may be able to take his departure home to the 
true philosophy, which is a strong cable for the soul, providing security from 
everything. 
Music is then to be handled for the sake of the embellishment and composure 
of manners. For instance, at a banquet we pledge each other while the music is 
playing; soothing by song the eagerness of our desires, and glorifying God for 
the copious gift of human enjoyments, for His perpetual supply of the food 
necessary for the growth of the body and of the soul. But we must reject 
superfluous music, which enervates men's souls, and leads to variety, -- now 
mournful, and then licentious and voluptuous, and then frenzied and frantic. 
The same holds also of astronomy. For treating of the description of the 
celestial objects, about the form of the universe, and the revolution of the 
heavens, and the motion of the stars, leading the soul nearer to the creative 
power, it teaches to quickness in perceiving the seasons of the year, the 
changes of the air, and the appearance of the stars; since also navigation and 
husbandry derive from this much benefit, as architecture and building from 
geometry. This branch of learning, too, makes the soul in the highest degree 
observant, capable of perceiving the true and detecting the false, of 
discovering correspondences and proportions, so as to hunt out for similarity in 
things dissimilar; and conducts us to the discovery of length without breadth, 
and superficial extent without thickness, and an indivisible point, and 
transports to intellectual objects from those of sense. 
The studies of philosophy, therefore, and philosophy itself, are aids in 
treating of the truth. For instance, the cloak was once a fleece; then it was 
shorn, and became warp and woof; and then it was woven. Accordingly the soul 
must be prepared and variously exercised, if it would become in the highest 
degree good. For there is the scientific and the practical element in truth; and 
the latter flows from the speculative; and there is need of great practice, and 
exercise, and experience. 
But in speculation, one element relates to one's neighbours and another to 
one's self. Wherefore also training ought to be so moulded as to be adapted to 
both. He, then, who has acquired a competent acquaintance with the subjects 
which embrace the principles which conduce to scientific knowledge (gnosis), may 
stop and remain for the future in quiet, directing his actions in l conformity 
with his theory. 
But for the benefit of one's neighbours, in the case of those who have 
proclivities for writing, and those who set themselves to deliver the word, both 
is other culture beneficial, and the reading of the Scriptures of the Lord is 
necessary, in order to the demonstration of what is said, and especially if 
those who hear are accessions from Hellenic culture. 
Such David describes the Church: "The queen stood on thy right hand, 
enveloped in a golden robe, variegated; " and with Hellenic and superabundant 
accomplishments, "clothed variegated with gold-fringed garments." And the Truth 
says by the Lord, "For who had known Thy counsel, hadst Thou not given wisdom, 
and sent Thy Holy Spirit from the Highest; and so the ways of those on earth 
were corrected, and men learned Thy decrees, and were saved by wisdom?" For the 
Gnostic knows things ancient by the Scripture, and conjectures things future: he 
understands the involutions of words and the solutions of enigmas. He knows 
beforehand signs and wonders, and the issues of seasons and periods, as we have 
said already. Seest thou the fountain of instructions that takes its rise from 
wisdom? But to those who object, What use is there in knowing the causes of the 
manner of the sun's motion, for example, and the rest of the heavenly bodies, or 
in having studied the theorems of geometry or logic, and each of the other 
branches of study? -- for these are of no service in the discharge of duties, 
and the Hellenic philosophy is human wisdom, for it is incapable of teachings 
the truth -- the following remarks are to be made. First, that they stumble in 
reference to the highest of things -- namely, the mind's free choice. "For 
they," it is said, "who keep holy holy things, shall be made holy; and those who 
have been taught will find an answer." For the Gnostic alone will do holily, in 
accordance with reason all that has to be done, as he hath learned through the 
Lord's teaching, received through men. 
Again, on the other hand, we may hear: "For in His hand, that is, in His 
power and wisdom, are both we and our words, and all wisdom and skill in works; 
for God loves nothing but the man that dwells with wisdom." And again, they have 
not read what is said by Solomon; for, treating of the construction of the 
temple, he says expressly, "And it was Wisdom as artificer that framed it; and 
Thy providence, O Father, governs throughout." And how irrational, to regard 
philosophy as inferior to architecture and shipbuilding! And the Lord fed the 
multitude of those that reclined on the grass opposite to Tiberias with the two 
fishes and the five barley loaves, indicating the preparatory training of the 
Greeks and Jews previous to the divine grain, which is the food cultivated by 
the law. For barley is sooner ripe for the harvest than wheat; and the fishes 
signified the Hellenic philosophy that was produced and moved in the midst of 
the Gentile billow, given, as they were, for copious food to those lying on the 
ground, increasing no more, like the fragments of the loaves, but having 
partaken of the Lord's blessing, and breathed into them the resurrection of 
Godhead through the power of the Word. But if you are curious, understand one of 
the fishes to mean the curriculum of study, and the other the philosophy which 
supervenes. The gatherings' point out the word of the Lord. 
"And the choir of mute fishes rushed to it," says the Tragic Muse somewhere. 
"I must decrease," said the prophet John, and the Word of the Lord alone, in 
which the law terminates, "increase." Understand now for me the mystery of the 
truth, granting pardon if I shrink from advancing further in the treatment of 
it, by announcing this alone: "All things were made by Him, and without Him was 
not even one thing." Certainly He is called "the chief corner stone; in whom the 
whole building, fitly joined together, groweth into an holy temple of God," 
according to the divine apostle. 
I pass over in silence at present the parable which says in the Gospel: "The 
kingdom of heaven is like a man who cast a net into the sea and out of the 
multitude of the fishes caught, makes a selection of the better ones." 
And now the wisdom which we possess announces the four virtues in such a way 
as to show that the sources of them were communicated by the Hebrews to the 
Greeks. This may be learned from the following: "And if one loves justice, its 
toils are virtues. For temperance and prudence teach justice and fortitude; and 
than these there is nothing more useful in life to men." 
Above all, this ought to be known, that by nature we are adapted for virtue; 
not so as to be possessed of it from our birth, but so as to be adapted for 
acquiring it. 
CHAPTER XII -- HUMAN NATURE POSSESSES AN ADAPTATION FOR PERFECTION; THE 
GNOSTIC ALONE ATTAINS IT. 
By which consideration s is solved the question propounded to us by the 
heretics, Whether Adam was created perfect or imperfect? Well, if imperfect, how 
could the work of a perfect God -- above all, that work being man -- be 
imperfect? And if perfect, how did he transgress the commandments? For they 
shall hear from us that he was not perfect in his creation, but adapted to the 
reception of virtue. For it is of great importance in regard to virtue to be 
made fit for its attainment. And it is intended that we should be saved by 
ourselves. This, then, is the nature of the soul, to move of itself. Then, as we 
are rational, and philosophy being rational, we have some affinity with it. Now 
an aptitude is a movement towards virtue, not virtue itself. All, then, as I 
said, are naturally constituted for the acquisition of virtue. 
But one man applies less, one more, to learning and training. Wherefore also 
some have been competent to attain to perfect virtue, and others have attained 
to a kind of it. And some, on the other hand, through negligence, although in 
other respects of good dispositions, have turned to the opposite. Now much more 
is that knowledge which excels all branches of culture in greatness and in 
truth, most difficult to acquire, and is attained with much toil. "But, as 
seems, they know not the mysteries of God. For God created man for immortality, 
and made him an image of His own nature;" according to which nature of Him who 
knows all, he who is a Gnostic, and righteous, and holy with prudence, hastes to 
reach the measure of perfect manhood. For not only are actions and thoughts, but 
words also, pure in the case of the Gnostic: "Thou hast proved mine heart; Thou 
hast visited me by night," it is said; "Thou hast subjected me to the fire, and 
unrighteousness was not found in me: so that my mouth shall not speak the works 
of men." 
And why do I say the works of men? He recognises sin itself, which is not 
brought forward in order to repentance (for this is common to all believers); 
but what sin is. Nor does he condemn this or that sin, but simply all sin; nor 
is it what one has done ill that he brings up, but what ought not to be done. 
Whence also repentance is twofold: that which is common, on account of having 
transgressed; and that which, from learning the nature of sin, persuades, in the 
first instance, to keep from sinning, the result of which is not sinning. 
Let them not then say, that he who does wrong and sins transgresses through 
the agency of demons; for then he would be guiltless. But by choosing the same 
things as demons, by sinning; being unstable, and light, and fickle in his 
desires, like a demon, he becomes a demoniac man. Now he who is bad, having 
become, through evil, sinful by nature, becomes depraved, having what he has 
chosen; and being sinful, sins also in his actions. And again, the good man does 
right. Wherefore we call not only the virtues, but also right actions, good. And 
of things that are 503. good we know that some are desirable for themselves, as 
knowledge; for we hunt for nothing from it when we have it, but only [seek] that 
it be with us, and that we be in uninterrupted contemplation, and strive to 
reach it for its own sake. But other things are desirable for other 
considerations, such as faith, for escape from punishment, and the advantage 
arising from reward, which accrue from it. For, in the case of many, fear is the 
cause of their not sinning; and the promise is the means of pursuing obedience, 
by which comes salvation. Knowledge, then, desirable as it is for its own sake, 
is the most perfect good; and consequently the things which follow by means of 
it are good. And punishment is the cause of correction to him who is punished; 
and to those who are able to see before them he becomes an example, to prevent 
them failing into the like. 
Let us then receive knowledge, not desiring its results, but embracing itself 
for the sake of knowing. For the first advantage is the habit of knowledge 
(gnpstikh), which furnishes harmless pleasures and exultation both for 
the present and the future. And exultation is said to be gladness, being a 
reflection of the virtue which is according to truth, through a kind of 
exhilaration and relaxation of soul. And the acts which partake of knowledge are 
good and fair actions. For abundance in the actions that are according to 
virtue, is the true riches, and destitution in decorous desires is poverty. For 
the use and enjoyment of necessaries are not injurious in quality, but in 
quantity, when in excess. Wherefore the Gnostic circumscribes his desires in 
reference both to possession and to enjoyment, not exceeding the limit of 
necessity. Therefore, regarding life in this world as necessary for the increase 
of science (episthmh) and the acquisition of knowledge (gnpsid), 
he will value highest, not living, but living well. He will therefore prefer 
neither children, nor marriage, nor parents, to love for God, and righteousness 
in life. To such an one, his wife, after conception, is as a sister, and is 
judged as if of the same father; then only recollecting her husband, when she 
looks on the children; as being destined to become a sister in reality after 
putting off the flesh, which separates and limits the knowledge of those who are 
spiritual by the peculiar characteristics of the sexes. For souls, themselves by 
themselves, are equal. Souls are neither male nor female, when they no longer 
marry nor are given in marriage. And is not woman translated into man, when she 
is become equally unfeminine, and manly, and perfect? Such, then, was the 
laughter of Sarah when she received the good news of the birth of a son; not, in 
my opinion, that she disbelieved the angel, but that she felt ashamed of the 
intercourse by means of which she was destined to become the mother of a son. 
And did not Abraham, when he was in danger on account of Sarah's beauty, with 
the king of Egypt, properly call her sister, being of the same father, but not 
of the same mother? 
To those, then, who have repented and not firmly believed, God grants their 
requests through their supplications. But to those who live sinlessly and 
gnostically, He gives, when they have but merely entertained the thought. For 
example, to Anna, on her merely conceiving the thought, conception was 
vouchsafed of the child Samuel. "Ask," says the Scripture, "and I will do. 
Think, and I will give." For we have heard that God knows the heart, not judging 
the soul from [external] movement, as we men; nor yet from the event, For it is 
ridiculous to think so. Nor was it as the architect praises the work when 
accomplished that God, on making the light and then seeing it, called it good. 
But He, knowing before He made it what it would be, praised that [which was 
made, He having potentially made good, from the first by His purpose that had no 
beginning, what was destined to be good actually. Now that which has future He 
already said beforehand was good, the phrase concealing the truth by hyperbaton. 
Therefore the Gnostic prays in thought during every hour, being by love allied 
to God. And first he will ask forgiveness of sins; and after, that he may sin no 
more; and further, the power of well-doing and of comprehending the whole 
creation and administration by the Lord, that, becoming pure in heart through 
the knowledge, which is by the Son of God, he may be initiated into the beatific 
vision face to face, having heard the Scripture which says, "Fasting with prayer 
is a good thing." 
Now fastings signify abstinence from all evils whatsoever, both in action and 
in word, and in thought itself. As appears, then, righteousness is quadrangular; 
on all sides equal and like in word, in deed, in abstinence from evils, in 
beneficence, in gnostic perfection; nowhere, and in no respect halting, so that 
he does not appear unjust and unequal. As one, then, is righteous, so certainly 
is he a believer. But as he is a believer, he is not yet also righteous -- I 
mean ac cording to the righteousness of progress and perfection, according to 
which the Gnostic is called righteous. 
For instance, on Abraham becoming a believer, it was reckoned to him for 
righteousness, he having advanced to the greater and more perfect degree of 
faith. For he who merely abstains from evil conduct is not just, unless he also 
attain besides beneficence and knowledge; and for this reason some things are to 
be abstained from, others are to be done. "By the armour of righteousness on the 
right hand and on the left," the apostle says, the righteous man is sent on to 
the inheritance above, -- by some [arms] defended, by others putting forth his 
might. For the defence of his panoply alone, and abstinence from sins, are not 
sufficient for perfection, unless he assume in addition the work of 
righteousness -- activity in doing good. 
Then our dexterous man and Gnostic is revealed in righteousness already even 
here, as Moses, glorified in the face of the soul, as we have formerly said, the 
body bears the stamp of the righteous soul. For as the mordant of the dyeing 
process, remaining in the wool, produces in it a certain quality and diversity 
from other wool; so also in the soul the pain is gone, but the good remains; and 
the sweet is left, but the base is wiped away. For these are two qualities 
characteristic of each soul, by which is known that which is glorified, and that 
which is condemned. 
And as in the case of Moses, from his righteous conduct, and from his 
uninterrupted intercourse with God, who spoke to him, a kind of glorified hue 
settled on his face; so also a divine power of goodness clinging to the 
righteous soul in contemplation and in prophecy, and in the exercise of the 
function of governing, impresses on it something, as it were, of intellectual 
radiance, like the solar ray, as a visible sign of righteousness, uniting the 
soul with light, through unbroken love, which is God-bearing and God-borne. 
Thence assimilation to God the Saviour arises to the Gnostic, as far as 
permitted to human nature, he being made perfect "as the Father who is in 
heaven." 
It is He Himself who says, "Little children, a little while I am still with 
you." Since also God Himself remains blessed and immortal, neither molested nor 
molesting another; not in consequence of being by nature good, but in proving 
Himself actually, both Father and good, continues immutably in the self-same 
goodness. For what is the use of good that does not act and do good? 
CHAPTER XIII -- DEGREES OF GLORY IN HEAVEN CORRESPONDING WITH THE DIGNITIES 
OF THE CHURCH BELOW. 
He, then, who has first moderated his passions and trained himself for 
impassibility, and developed to the beneficence of gnostic perfection, is here 
equal to the angels. Luminous already, and like the sun shining in the exercise 
of beneficence, he speeds by righteous knowledge through the love of God to the 
sacred abode, like as the apostles. Not that they became apostles through being 
chosen for some distinguished peculiarity of nature, since also Judas was chosen 
along with them. But they were capable of becoming apostles on being chosen by 
Him who foresees even ultimate issues. Matthias, accordingly, who was not chosen 
along with them, on showing himself worthy of becoming an apostle, is 
substituted for Judas. 
Those, then, also now, who have exercised themselves in the Lord's 
commandments, and lived perfectly and gnostically according to the Gospel, may 
be enrolled in the chosen body of the apostles. Such an one is in reality a 
presbyter of the Church, and a true minister (deacon) of the will of God, if he 
do and teach what is the Lord's; not as being ordained by men, nor regarded 
righteous because a presbyter, but enrolled in the presbyterate s because 
righteous. And although here upon earth he be not honoured with the chief seat, 
he will sit down on the four-and-twenty thrones, judging the people, as John 
says in the Apocalypse. 
For, in truth, the covenant of salvation, reaching down to us from the 
foundation of the world, through different generations and times, is one, though 
conceived as different in respect of gift. For it follows that there is one 
unchangeable gift of salvation given by one God, through one Lord, benefiting in 
many ways. For which cause the middle wall which separated the Greek from the 
Jew is taken away, in order that there might be a peculiar people. And so both 
meet in the one unity of faith; and the selection out of both is one. And the 
chosen of the chosen are those who by reason of perfect knowledge are called [as 
the best] from the Church itself, and honoured with the most august glory -- the 
judges and rulers -- four-and-twenty (the grace being doubled)equally from Jews 
and Greeks. Since, according to my opinion, the grades here in the Church, of 
bishops, presbyters, deacons, are imitations of the angelic glory, and of that 
economy which, the Scriptures say, awaits those who, following the footsteps of 
the apostles, have lived in perfection of righteousness according to the Gospel. 
For these taken up in the clouds, the apostle writes, will first minister [as 
deacons], then be classed in the presbyterate, by promotion in glory (for glory 
differs from glory) till they grow into "a perfect man." 
CHAPTER XIV -- DEGREES OF GLORY IN HEAVEN. 
Such, according to David, "rest in the holy hill of God," in the Church far 
on high, in which are gathered the philosophers of God, "who are Israelites 
indeed, who are pure in heart, in whom there is no guile; " who do not remain in 
the seventh seat, the place of rest, but are promoted, through the active 
beneficence of the divine likeness, to the heritage of beneficence which is the 
eighth grade; devoting themselves to the pure vision of insatiable 
contemplation. 
"And other sheep there are also," saith the Lord, "which are not of this fold 
" -- deemed worthy of another fold and mansion, in proportion to their faith. 
"But My sheep hear My voice," understanding gnostically the commandments. And 
this is to be taken in a magnanimous and worthy acceptation, along with also the 
recompense and accompaniment of works. So that when we hear, "Thy faith hath 
saved thee, we do not understand Him to say absolutely that those who have 
believed in any way whatever shall be saved, unless also works follow. But it 
was to the Jews alone that He spoke this utterance, who kept the law and lived 
blamelessly, who wanted only faith in the Lord. No one, then, can be a believer 
and at the same time be licentious; but though he quit the flesh, he must put 
off the passions, so as to be capable of reaching his own mansion. 
Now to know is more than to believe, as to be dignified with the highest 
honour after being saved is a greater thing than being saved. Accordingly the 
believer, through great discipline, divesting himself of the passions, passes to 
the mansion which is better than the former one, viz., to the greatest torment, 
taking with him the characteristic of repentance from the sins he has committed 
after baptism. He is tortured then still more -- not yet or not quite attaining 
what he sees others to have acquired. Besides, he is also ashamed of his 
transgressions. The greatest torments, indeed, are assigned to the believer. For 
God's righteousness is good, and His goodness is righteous. And though the 
punishments cease in the course of the completion of the expiation and 
purification of each one, yet those have very great and permanent grief who are 
found worthy of the other fold, on account of not being along with those that 
have been glorified through righteousness. 
For instance, Solomon, calling the Gnostic, wise, speaks thus of those who 
admire the dignity of his mansion: "For they shall see the end of the wise, and 
to what a degree the Lord has established him." And of his glory they will say, 
"This was he whom we once held up to derision, and made a byword of reproach; 
fools that we were! We thought his life madness, and his end dishonourable. How 
is he reckoned among the sons of God, and his inheritance among the saints?" 
Not only then the believer, but even the heathen, is judged most righteously. 
For since God knew in virtue of His prescience that he would not believe, He 
nevertheless, in order that he might receive his own perfection gave him 
philosophy, but gave it him previous to faith. And He gave the sun, and the 
moon, and the stars to be worshipped; "which God," the Law says, made for the 
nations, that they might not become altogether atheistical, and so utterly 
perish. But they, also in the instance of this commandment, having become devoid 
of sense, and addicting themselves to graven images, are judged unless they 
repent; some of them because, though able, they would not believe God; and 
others because, though willing, they did not take the necessary pains to become 
believers. There were also, however, those who, from the worship of the heavenly 
bodies, did not return to the Maker of them. For this was the sway given to the 
nations to rise up to God, by means of the worship of the heavenly bodies. But 
those who would not abide by those heavenly bodies assigned to them, but fell 
away from them to stocks and stones, "were counted," it is said, "as chaff-dust 
and as a drop from a jar," beyond salvation, cast away from the body. 
As, then, to be simply saved is the result of medium actions, but to be saved 
tightly and becomingly is right action, so also all action of the Gnostic may be 
called tight action; that of the simple believer, intermediate action, not yet 
perfected according to reason, not yet made right according to knowledge; but 
that of every heathen again is sinful. For it is not simply doing well, but 
doing actions with a certain aim, and acting according to reason, that the 
Scriptures exhibit as requisite. 
As, then, lyres ought not to be touched by those who are destitute of skill 
in playing the lyre, nor flutes by those who are unskilled in flute-playing, 
neither are those to put their hand to affairs who have not knowledge, and know 
not how to use them in the whole of life. 
The struggle for freedom, then, is waged not alone by the athletes of battles 
in wars, but also in banquets, and in bed, and in the tribunals, by those who 
are anointed by the word, who are ashamed to become the captives of pleasures. 
"I would never part with virtue for unrighteous gain." But plainly, 
unrighteous gain is pleasure and pain, toil and fear; and, to speak 
comprehensively, the passions of the soul, the present of which is delightful, 
the future vexatious. "For what is the profit," it is said, "if you gain the 
world and lose the soul?" It is clear, then, that those who do not perform good 
actions, do not know what is for their own advantage. And if so, neither are 
they capable of praying aright, so as to receive from God good things; nor, 
should they receive them, will they be sensible of the boon; nor, should they 
enjoy them, will they enjoy worthily what they know not; both from their want of 
knowledge how to use the good things given them, and from their excessive 
stupidity, being ignorant of the way to avail themselves of the divine gifts. 
Now stupidity is the cause of ignorance. And it appears to me that it is the 
vaunt of a boastful soul, though of one with a good conscience, to exclaim 
against what happens through circumstances: "Therefore let them do what they 
may; 
For it shall be well with me; and Right Shall be my ally, and I shall not be 
caught doing evil." 
But such a good conscience preserves sanctity towards God and justice towards 
men; keeping the soul pure with grave thoughts, and pure. words, and just deeds. 
By thus receiving the Lord's power, the soul studies to be God; regarding 
nothing bad but ignorance, and action contrary to fight reason. And giving 
thanks always for all things to God, by righteous heating and divine reading, by 
true investigation, by holy oblation, by blessed prayer; lauding, hymning, 
blessing, praising, such a soul is never at any time separated from God. Rightly 
then is it said, "And they who trust in Him shall underStand the truth, and 
those faithful in love shall abide by Him." You see what statements Wisdom makes 
about the Gnostics. 
Conformably, therefore, there are various abodes, according to the worth of 
those who have believed. To the point Solomon says, "For there shall be given to 
him the choice grace of faith, and a more pleasant lot in the temple of the 
Lord." For the comparative shows that there are lower parts in the temple of 
God, which is the whole Church. And the superlative remains to be conceived, 
where the Lord is. These chosen abodes, which are three, are indicated by the 
numbers in the Gospel -- the thirty, the sixty, the hundred. And the perfect 
inheritance belongs to those who attain to "a perfect man," according to the 
image of the Lord. And the likeness is not, as some imagine, that of the human 
form; for this consideration is impious. Nor is the likeness to the first cause 
that which consists in virtue. For this utterance is also impious, being that of 
those who have imagined that virtue in man and in the sovereign God is the same. 
"Thou hast supposed iniquity,' He says, " [in imagining] that I will be like to 
thee." But "it is enough for the disciple to become as the Master," saith the 
Master. To the likeness of God, then, he that is introduced into adoption and 
the friendship of God, to the just inheritance of the lords and gods is brought; 
if he be perfected, according to the Gospel, as the Lord Himself taught. 
CHAPTER XV -- DIFFERENT DEGREES OF KNOWLEDGE. 
The Gnostic, then, is impressed with the closest likeness, that is, with the 
mind of the Master; which He being possessed of, commanded and recommended to 
His disciples and to the prudent. Comprehending this, as He who taught wished, 
and receiving it in its grand sense, he teaches worthily "on the housetops" 
those capable of being built to a lofty height; and begins the doing of what is 
spoken, in accordance with the example of life. For He enjoined what is 
possible. And, in truth, the kingly man and Christian ought to be ruler and 
leader. For we are commanded to be lords over not only the wild beasts without 
us, but also over the wild passions within ourselves. 
Through the knowledge, then, as appears, of a bad and good life is the 
Gnostic saved, understanding and executing "more than the scribes and 
Pharisees." "Exert thyself, and prosper, and reign" writes David, "because of 
truth, and meekness, and righteousness; and thy right hand shall guide thee 
marvellously," that is, the Lord. "Who then is the wise? and he shall understand 
these things. Prudent? and he shall know them. For the ways of the Lord are 
right," says the prophet, showing that the Gnostic alone is able to understand 
and explain the things spoken by the Spirit obscurely. "And he who understands 
in that time shall hold his peace," says the Scripture, plainly in the way of 
declaring them to the unworthy. For the Lord says, "He that hath ears to hear, 
let him hear," declaring that hearing and understanding belong not to all. To 
the point David writes: "Dark water is in the clouds of the skies. At the gleam 
before Him the clouds passed, hail and coals of fire;" showing that the holy 
words are hidden. He intimates that transparent and resplendent to the Gnostics, 
like the innocuous hail, they are sent down from God; but that they are dark to 
the multitude, like extinguished coals out of the fire, which, unless kindled 
and set on fire, will not give forth fire or light. "The Lord, therefore," it is 
said, "gives me the tongue of instruction, so as to know in season when it is 
requisite to speak a word;" not in the way of testimony alone, but also in the 
way of question and answer. "And the instruction of the Lord opens my mouth." It 
is the prerogative of the Gnostic, then, to know how to make use of speech, and 
when, and how, and to whom. And already the apostle, by saying, "After the 
rudiments of the world, and not after Christ," makes the asseveration that the 
Hellenic teaching is elementary, and that of Christ perfect, as we have already 
intimated before. 
"Now the wild olive is inserted into the fatness of the olive," and is indeed 
of the same species as the cultivated olives. For the graft uses as soil the 
tree in which it is engrafted. Now all the plants sprouted forth simultaneously 
in consequence of the divine order. Wherefore also, though the wild olive be 
wild, it crowns the Olympic victors. And the elm teaches the vine to be 
fruitful, by leading it up to a height. Now we see that wild trees attract more 
nutriment, because they cannot ripen. The wild trees, therefore, have less power 
of secretion than those that are cultivated. And the cause of their wildness is 
the want of the power of secretion. The engrafted olive accordingly receives 
more nutriment from its growing in the wild one; and it gets accustomed, as it 
were, to secrete the nutriment, becoming thus assimilated to the fatness of the 
cultivated tree. 
So also the philosopher, resembling the wild olive, in having much that is 
undigested, on account of his devotion to the search, his propensity to follow, 
and his eagerness to seize the fatness of the truth; if he get besides the 
divine power, through faith, by being transplanted into the good and mild 
knowledge, like the wild olive, engrafted in the truly fair and merciful Word, 
he both assimilates the nutriment that is supplied, and becomes a fair and good 
olive tree. For engrafting makes worthless shoots noble, and compels the barren 
to be fruitful by the art of culture and by gnostic skill. 
Different modes of engrafting illustrative of different kinds of conversion. 
They say that engrafting is effected in four modes: one, that in which the 
graft must be fitted in between the wood and the bark; resembling the way in 
which we instruct plain people belonging to the Gentiles, who receive the word 
superficially. Another is, when the wood is cleft, and there is inserted in it 
the cultivated branch. And this applies to the case of those who have studied 
philosophy; for on cutting through their dogmas, the acknowledgment of the truth 
is produced in them. So also in the case of the Jews, by opening up the Old 
Testament, the new and noble plant of the olive is inserted. The third mode of 
engrafting applies to rustics and heretics, who are brought by force to the 
truth. For after smoothing off both suckers with a sharp pruning-hook, till the 
pith is laid bare, but not wounded, they are bound together. And the fourth is 
that form of engrafting called budding. For a bud (eye) is cut out of a trunk of 
a good sort, a circle being drawn round in the bark along with it, of the size 
of the palm. Then the trunk is stripped, to suit the eye, over an equal 
circumference. And so the graft is inserted, tied round, and daubed with clay, 
the bud being kept uninjured and unstained. This is the style of gnostic 
teaching, which is capable of looking into things themselves. This mode is, in 
truth, of most service in the case of cultivated trees. And "the engrafting into 
the good olive" mentioned by the apostle, may be [engrafting into] Christ 
Himself; the uncultivated and unbelieving nature being transplanted into Christ 
-- that is, in the case of those who believe in Christ. But it is better [to 
understand it] of the engrafting of each one's faith in the soul itself. For 
also the Holy Spirit is thus somehow transplanted by distribution, according to 
the circumscribed capacity of each one, but without being circumscribed. 
Knowledge and love. 
Now, discoursing on knowledge, Solomon speaks thus: "For wisdom is 
resplendent and fadeless, and is easily beheld by those who love her. She is 
beforehand in making herself known to those who desire her. He that rises early 
for her shall not toil wearily. For to think about her is the perfection of good 
sense. And he that keeps vigils for her shall quickly be relieved of anxiety. 
For she goes about, herself seeking those worthy of her (for knowledge belongs 
not to all); and in all ways she benignly shows herself to them." Now the paths 
are the conduct of life, and the variety that exists in the covenants. Presently 
he adds: "And in every thought she meets them," being variously contemplated, 
that is, by all discipline. Then he subjoins, adducing love, which perfects by 
syllogistic reasoning and true propositions, drawing thus a most convincing and 
true inference, "For the beginning of her is the truest desire of instruction," 
that is, of knowledge; "prudence is the love of instruction, and love is the 
keeping of its laws; and attention to its laws is the confirmation of 
immortality; and immortality causes nearness to God. The desire of wisdom leads, 
then, to the kingdom." 
For he teaches, as I think, that true instruction is desire for knowledge; 
and the practical exercise of instruction produces love of knowledge. And love 
is the keeping of the commandments which lead to knowledge. And the keeping of 
them is the establishment of the commandments, from which immortality results. 
"And immortality brings us near to God." 
True knowledge found in the teaching of Christ alone. 
If, then, the love of knowledge produces immortality, and leads the kingly 
man near to God the King, knowledge ought to be sought till it is found. Now 
seeking is an effort at grasping, and finds the subject by means of certain 
signs. And discovery is the end and cessation of inquiry, which has now its 
object in its gasp. And this is knowledge. And this discovery, properly so 
called, is knowledge, which is the apprehension of the object of search. And 
they say that a proof is either the antecedent, or the coincident, or the 
consequent. The discovery, then, of what is sought respecting God, is the 
teaching through the Son; and the proof of our Saviour being the very Son of God 
is the prophecies which preceded His coming, announcing Him; and the testimonies 
regarding Him which attended His birth in the world; in addition, His powers 
proclaimed and openly shown after His ascension. 
The proof of the truth being with us, is the fact of the Son of God Himself 
having taught us. For if in every inquiry these universals are found, a person 
and a subject, that which is truly the truth is shown to be in our hands alone. 
For the Son of God is the person of the truth which is exhibited; and the 
subject is the power of faith, which prevails over the opposition of every one 
whatever, and the assault of the whole world. 
But since this is confessedly established by eternal facts and reasons, and 
each one who thinks that there is no Providence has already been seen to deserve 
punishment and not contradiction, and is truly an atheist, it is our aim to 
discover what doing, and in what manner living, we shall reach the knowledge of 
the sovereign God, and how, honouring the Divinity, we may become authors of our 
own salvation. Knowing and learning, not from the Sophists, but from God 
Himself, what is well-pleasing to Him, we endeavour to do what is just and holy. 
Now it is well-pleasing to Him that we should be saved; and salvation is 
effected through both well-doing and knowledge, of both of which the Lord is the 
teacher. 
If, then, according to Plato, it is only possible to learn the truth either 
from God or from the progeny of God, with reason we, selecting testimonies from 
the divine oracles, boast of learning the truth by the Son of God, prophesied at 
first, and then explained. 
Philosophy and heresies, aids in discovering the truth. 
But the things which co-operate in the discovery of truth are not to be 
rejected. Philosophy, accordingly, which proclaims a Providence, and the 
recompense of a life of felicity, and the punishment, on the other hand, of a 
life of misery, teaches theology comprehensively; but it does not preserve 
accuracy and particular points; for neither respecting the Son of God, nor 
respecting the economy of Providence, does it treat similarly with us; for it 
did not know the worship of God. 
Wherefore also the heresies of the Barbarian philosophy, although they speak 
of one God, though they sing the praises of Christ, speak without accuracy, not 
in accordance with truth; for they discover another God, and receive Christ not 
as the prophecies deliver. But their false dogmas, while they oppose the conduct 
that is according to the truth, are against us. For instance, Paul circumcised 
Timothy because of the Jews who believed, in order that those who had received 
their training from the law might not revolt from the faith through his breaking 
such points of the law as were understood more cam ally, knowing right well that 
circumcision does not justify; for he professed that "all things were for all" 
by conformity, preserving those of the dogmas that were essential, "that he 
might gain all." And Daniel, under the king of the Persians, wore "the chain," 
though he despised not the afflictions of the people. 
The liars, then, in reality are not those who for the sake of the scheme of 
salvation conform, nor those who err in minute points, but those who are wrong 
in essentials, and reject the Lord and as far as in them lies deprive the Lord 
of the true teaching; who do not quote or deliver the Scriptures in a manner 
worthy of God and of the Lord; for the deposit rendered to God, according to the 
teaching of the Lord by His apostles, is the understanding and the practice of 
the godly tradition. "And what ye hear in the ear " -- that is, in a hidden 
manner, and in a mystery (for such things are figuratively said to be spoken in 
the ear) -- "proclaim," He says, "on the housetops," understanding them 
sublimely, and delivering them in a lofty strain, and according to the canon of 
the truth explaining the Scriptures; for neither prophecy nor the Saviour 
Himself announced the divine mysteries simply so as to be easily apprehended by 
all and sundry, but express them in parables. The apostles accordingly say of 
the Lord, that "He spake all things in parables, and without a parable spake He 
nothing unto them;" and if "all things were made by Him, and without Him was not 
anything made that was made," consequently also prophecy and the law were by 
Him, and were spoken by Him in parables. "But all things are right," says the 
Scripture, "before those who understand," that is, those who receive and 
observe, according to the ecclesiastical rule, the exposition of the Scriptures 
explained by Him; and the ecclesiastical rule is the concord and harmony of the 
law and the prophets in the covenant delivered at the coming of the Lord. 
Knowledge is then followed by practical wisdom, and practical wisdom by 
self-control: for it may be said that practical wisdom is divine knowledge, and 
exists in those who are deified; but that self-control is mortal, and subsists 
in those who philosophize, and are not yet wise. But if virtue is divine, so is 
also the knowledge of it; while self-control is a sort of imperfect wisdom which 
aspires after wisdom, and exerts itself laboriously, and is not contemplative. 
As certainly righteousness, being human, is, as being a common thing, 
subordinate to holiness, which subsists through the divine righteousness; for 
the righteousness of the perfect man does not rest on civil contracts, or on the 
prohibition of law, but flows from his own spontaneous action and his love to 
God. 
Reasons for the meaning of Scripture being veiled. 
For many reasons, then, the Scriptures hide the sense. First, that we may 
become inquisitive, and be ever on the watch for the discovery of the words of 
salvation. Then it was not suitable for all to understand, so that they might 
not receive harm in consequence of taking in another sense the things declared 
for salvation by the Holy Spirit. Wherefore the holy mysteries of the prophecies 
are veiled in the parables -- preserved for chosen men, selected to knowledge in 
consequence of their faith; for the style of the Scriptures is parabolic. 
Wherefore also the Lord, who was not of the world, came as one who was of the 
world to men. For He was clothed with all virtue; and it was His aim to lead 
man, the foster-child of the world, up to the objects of intellect, and to the 
most essential truths by knowledge, from one world to another. 
Wherefore also He employed metaphorical description; for such is the parable, 
-- a narration based on some subject which is not the principal subject, but 
similar to the principal subject, and leading him who understands to what is the 
true and principal thing; or, as some say, a mode of speech presenting with 
vigour, by means of other circumstances, what is the principal subject. 
And now also the whole economy which prophesied of the Lord appears indeed a 
parable to those who know not the truth, when one speaks and the rest hear that 
the Son of God -- of Him who made the universe -- assumed flesh, and was 
conceived in the virgin's womb (as His material body was produced), and 
subsequently, as was the case, suffered and rose again, being "to the Jews a 
stumbling-block, and to the Greeks foolishness," as the apostle says. 
But on the Scriptures being opened up, and declaring the truth to those who 
have ears, they proclaim the very suffering endured by the flesh, which the Lord 
assumed, to be "the power and wisdom of God." And finally, the parabolic style 
of Scripture being of the greatest antiquity, as we have shown, abounded most, 
as was to be expected, in the prophets, in order that the Holy Spirit might show 
that the philosophers among the Greeks, and the wise men among the Barbarians 
besides, were ignorant of the future coming of the Lord, and of the mystic 
teaching that was to be delivered by Him. Rightly then, prophecy, in proclaiming 
the Lord, in order not to seem to some to blaspheme while speaking what was 
beyond the ideas of the multitude embodied its declarations in expressions 
capable of leading to other conceptions. Now all the prophets who foretold the 
Lord's coming, and the holy mysteries accompanying it, were persecuted and 
killed. As also the Lord Himself, in explaining the Scriptures to them, and His 
disciples who preached the word like Him, and subsequently to His life, used 
parables. Whence also Peter, in his Preaching, speaking of the apostles, says: 
"But we, unrolling the books of the prophets which we possess, who name Jesus 
Christ, partly in parables, partly in enigmas, partly expressly and in so many 
words, find His coming and death, and cross, and all the rest of the tortures 
which the Jews inflicted on Him, and His resurrection and assumption to heaven 
previous to the capture of Jerusalem. As it is written, These things are all 
that He behoves to suffer, and what should be after Him. Recognising them, 
therefore, we have believed in God in consequence of what is written respecting 
Him." 
And after a little again he draws the inference that the Scriptures owed 
their origin to the divine providence, asserting as follows: "For we know that 
God enjoined these things, and we say nothing apart from the Scriptures." 
Now the Hebrew dialect, like all the rest, has certain properties, consisting 
in a mode of speech which exhibits the national character. Dialect is 
accordingly defined as a style of speech produced by the national character. But 
prophecy is not marked by those dialects. For in the Hellenic writings, what are 
called changes of figures purposely produce onscurations, deduced after the 
style of our prophecies. But this is effected through the voluntary departure 
from direct speech which takes place in metrical or offhand diction. A figure, 
then, is a form of speech transferred from what is literal to what is not 
literal, for the sake of the composition, and on account of a diction useful in 
speech. 
But prophecy does not employ figurative forms in the expressions for the sake 
of beauty of diction. But from the fact that truth appertains not to all, it is 
veiled in manifold ways, causing the light to arise only on those who are 
initiated into knowledge, who seek the truth through love. The proverb, 
according to the Barbarian philosophy, is called a mode of prophecy, and the 
parable is so called, and the enigma in addition. Further also, they are called 
"wisdom;" and again, as something different from it, "instruction and words of 
prudence," and "turnings of words," and "true righteousness and again, "teaching 
to direct judgment," and "subtlety to the simple," which is the result of 
training, "and perception and thought," with which the young catechumen is 
imbued. "He who bears these prophets, being wise, will be wiser. And the 
intelligent man will acquire rule, and will understand a parable and a dark 
saying, the words and enigmas of the wise." 
And if it was the case that the Hellenic dialects received their appellation 
from Hellen, the son of Zeus, surnamed Deucalion, from the chronology which we 
have already exhibited, it is comparatively easy to perceive by how many 
generations the dialects that obtained among the Greeks are posterior to the 
language of the Hebrews. 
But as the work advances, we shall in each section, noting the figures of 
speech mentioned above by the prophet, exhibit the gnostic mode of life, showing 
it systematically according to the rule of the truth. 
Did not the Power also, that appeared to Hermas in the Vision, in the form of 
the Church, give for transcription the book which she wished to be made known to 
the elect? And this, he says, he transcribed to the letter, without finding how 
to complete the syllables. And this signified that the Scripture is clear to 
all, when taken according to the bare reading; and that this is the faith which 
occupies the place of the rudiments. Wherefore also the figurative expression is 
employed, "reading according to the letter;" while we understand that the 
gnostic unfolding of the Scriptures, when faith has already reached an advanced 
state, is likened to reading according to the syllables. 
Further, Esaias the prophet is ordered to take "a new book, and write in it" 
certain things: the Spirit prophesying that through the exposition of the 
Scriptures there would come afterwards the sacred knowledge, which at that 
period was still unwritten, because not yet known. For it was spoken from the 
beginning to those only who understand. Now that the Saviour has taught the 
apostles, the unwritten rendering' of the written [Scripture] has been handed 
down also to us, inscribed by the power of God on hearts new, according to the 
renovation of the book. Thus those of highest repute among the Greeks, dedicate 
the fruit of the pomegranate to Hermes, who they say is speech, on account of 
its interpretation. For speech conceals much. Rightly, therefore, Jesus the son 
of Nave saw Moses, when taken up [to heaven], double, -- one Moses with the 
angels, and one on the mountains, honoured with burial in their ravines. And 
Jesus saw this spectacle below, being elevated by the Spirit, along also with 
Caleb. But both do not see similarly But the one descended with greater speed, 
as if the weight he carried was great; while the other, on descending after him, 
subsequently related the glory which he beheld, being able to perceive more than 
the other as having grown purer; the narrative, in my opinion, showing that 
knowledge is not the privilege of all. Since some look at the body of the 
Scriptures, the expressions and the names as to the body of Moses; while others 
see through to the thoughts and what it is signified by the names, seeking the 
Moses that is with the angels. 
Many also of those who called to the Lord said, "Son of David, have mercy on 
me." A few, too, knew Him as the Son of God; as Peter, whom also He pronounced 
blessed, "for flesh and blood revealed not the truth to him, but His Father in 
heaven," 3 -- showing that the Gnostic recognises the Son of the Omnipotent, not 
by His flesh conceived in the womb, but by the Father's own power. That it is 
therefore not only to those who read simply that the acquisition of the truth is 
so difficult, but that not even to those whose prerogative the knowledge of the 
truth is, is the contemplation of it vouch-safed all at once, the history of 
Moses teaches, until, accustomed to gaze, at the Hebrews on the glory of Moses, 
and the prophets of Israel on the visions of angels, so we also become able to 
look the splendours of truth in the face. 
CHAPTER XVI -- GNOSTIC EXPOSITION OF THE DECALOGUE. 
Let the Decalogue be set forth cursorily by us as a specimen for gnostic 
exposition. 
The number "ten." 
That ten is a sacred number, it is superfluous to say now. And if the tables 
that were written were the work of God, they will be found to exhibit physical 
creation. For by the "finger of God" is understood the power of God, by which 
the creation of heaven and earth is accomplished; of both of which the tables 
will be understood to be symbols. For the writing and handiwork of God put on 
the table is the creation of the world. 
And the Decalogue, viewed as an image of heaven, embraces sun and moon, 
stars, clouds, light, wind, water, air, darkness, fire. This is the physical 
Decalogue of the heaven. 
And the representation of the earth contains men, cattle, reptiles, wild 
beasts; and of the inhabitants of the water, fishes and whales; and again, of 
the winged tribes, those that are carnivorous, and those that rise mild food; 
and of plants likewise, both fruit-bearing and barren. 
This is the physical Decalogue of the earth. 
And the ark which held them will then be the knowledge of divine and human 
things and wisdom. 
And perhaps the two tables themselves may be the prophecy of the two 
covenants. They were accordingly mystically renewed, as ignorance along with sin 
abounded. The commandments are written, then, doubly, as appears, for twofold 
spirits, the ruling and the subject. 
"For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh." 

And there is a ten in man himself: the five senses, and the power of speech, 
and that of reproduction; and the eighth is the spiritual principle communicated 
at his creation; and the ninth the ruling faculty of the soul; and tenth, there 
is the distinctive characteristic of the Holy Spirit, which comes to him through 
faith. 
Besides, in addition to these ten human parts, the law appear to give its 
injunctions to sight, and hearing, and Smell, and touch, and taste, and to the 
organs subservient to these, which are double -- the hands and the feet. For 
such is the formation of man. And the soul is introduced, and previous to it the 
ruling faculty, by which we re.on, not produced in procreation; so that without 
it there is made up the number ten, of the faculties by which all the activity 
of man is carried out. For in order, straightway on man's entering existence, 
his life begins with sensations. We accordingly assert that rational and ruling 
power is the cause of the constitution of the living creature; also that this, 
the irrational part, is animated, and is a part of it. Now the vital force, in 
which is comprehended the power of nutrition and growth, and generally of 
motion, is assigned to the carnal spirit, which has great susceptibility of 
motion, and passes in all directions through the senses and the rest of the 
body, and through the body is the primary subject of sensations. But the power 
of choice, in which investigation, and study, and knowledge, reside, belongs to 
the ruling faculty. But all the faculties are placed in relation to one -- the 
ruling faculty: it is through that man lives, and lives in a certain way. 
Through the corporeal spirit, then, man perceives, desires, rejoices, is 
angry, is nourished, grows. It is by it, too, that thoughts and conceptions 
advance to actions. And when it masters the desires, the ruling faculty reigns. 
The commandment, then, "Thou shalt not lust," says, thou shalt not serve the 
carnal spirit, but shall rule over it; "For the flesh lusteth against the 
Spirit," and excites to disorderly conduct against nature; "and the Spirit 
against the flesh" exercises sway, in order that the conduct of the man may be 
according to nature. 
Is not man, then, rightly said "to have been made in the image of God?" -- 
not in the form of his [corporeal] structure; but inasmuch as God creates all 
things by the Word (logwand the man who has become a Gnostic performs 
good actions by the faculty of reason (tw logikp), properly therefore the 
two tables are also said to mean the commandments that were given to the twofold 
spirits, -- those communicated before the law to that which was created, and to 
the ruling faculty; and the movements of the senses are both copied in the mind, 
and manifested in the activity which proceeds from the body. For apprehension 
results from both combined. Again, as sensation is related to the world of 
sense, so is thought to that of intellect. And actions are twofold -- those of 
thought, those of act. 
The First Commandment. 
The first commandment of the Decalogue shows that there is one only Sovereign 
God who led the people from the land of Egypt through the desert to their 
fatherland; that they might apprehend His power, as they were able, by means of 
the divine works, and withdraw from the idolatry of created things, putting all 
their hope in the true God. 
The Second Commandment. 
The second word intimated that men ought not to take and confer the august 
power of God (which is the name, for this alone were many even yet capable of 
learning), and transfer His title to things created and vain, which human 
artificers have made, among which" He that is" is not ranked. For in His 
uncreated identity, "He that is" is absolutely alone. 
The Fourth Commandment. 
And the fourth word is that which intimates that the world was created by 
God, and that He gave us the seventh day as a rest, on account of the trouble 
that there is in life. For God is incapable of weariness, and suffering, and 
want. But we who bear flesh need rest. The seventh day, therefore, is proclaimed 
a rest -- abstraction from ills -- preparing for the Primal Day, our true rest; 
which, in truth, is the first creation of light, in which all things are viewed 
and possessed. From this day the first wisdom and knowledge illuminate us. For 
the light of truth -- a light true, casting no shadow, is the Spirit of God 
indivisibly divided to all, who are sanctified by faith, holding the place of a 
luminary, in order to the knowledge of real existences. By following Him, 
therefore, through our whole life, we become impossible; and this is to rest. 
Wherefore Solomon also says, that before heaven, and earth, and all 
existences, Wisdom had arisen in the Almighty; the participation of which -- 
that which is by power, I mean, not that by essence -- teaches a man to know by 
apprehension things divine and human. Having reached this point, we must mention 
these things by the way; since the discourse has turned on the seventh and the 
eighth. For the eighth may possibly turn out to be properly the seventh, and the 
seventh manifestly the sixth, and the latter properly the Sabbath, and the 
seventh a day of work. For the creation of the world was concluded in six days. 
For the motion of the sun from solstice to solstice is completed in six months 
-- in the course of which, at one time the leaves fall, and at another plants 
bud and seeds come to maturity. And they say that the embryo is perfected 
exactly in the sixth month, that is, in one hundred and eighty days in addition 
to the two and a half, as Polybus the physician relates in his book On the 
Eighth Month, and Aristotle the philosopher in his book On Nature. Hence the 
Pythagoreans, as I think, reckon six the perfect number, from the creation of 
the world, according to the prophet, and call it Meseuthys and Marriage, from 
its being the middle of the even numbers, that is, of ten and two. For it is 
manifestly at an equal distance from both. 
And as marriage generates from male and female, so six is generated from the 
odd number three, which is called the masculine number, and the even number two, 
which is considered the feminine. For twice three are six. 
Such, again, is the number of the most general motions, according to which 
all origination takes place -- up, down, to the right, to the left, forward, 
backward. Rightly, then, they reckon the number seven motherless and childless, 
interpreting the Sabbath, and figuratively expressing the nature of the rest, in 
which "they neither marry nor are given in marriage any more." For neither by 
taking from one number and adding to another of those within ten is seven 
produced; nor when added to any number within the ten does it make up any of 
them. 
And they called eight a cube, counting the fixed sphere along with the seven 
revolving ones, by which is produced "the great year," as a kind of period of 
recompense of what has been promised. 
Thus the Lord, who ascended the mountain, the fourth, becomes the sixth, and 
is illuminated all round with spiritual light, by laying bare the power 
proceeding from Him, as far as those selected to see were able to behold it, by 
the Seventh, the Voice, proclaimed to be the Son of God; in order that they, 
persuaded respecting Him, might have rest; while He by His birth, which was 
indicated by the sixth conspicuously marked, becoming the eighth, might appear 
to be God in a body of flesh, by displaying His power, being numbered indeed as 
a man, but being concealed as to who He was. For six is reckoned in the order of 
numbers, but the succession of the letters acknowledges the character which is 
not written. In this case, in the numbers themselves, each unit is preserved in 
its order up to seven and eight. But in the number of the characters, Zeta 
becomes six and Eta seven. 
And the character having somehow slipped into writing, should we follow it 
out thus, the seven became six, and the eight seven. 
Wherefore also man is said to have been made on the sixth day, who became 
faithful to Him who is the sign (tp epishmw ), so as straightway to 
receive the rest of the Lord's inheritance. Some such thing also is indicated by 
the sixth hour in the scheme of salvation, in which man was perfected. Further, 
of the eight, the intermediates are seven; and of the seven, the intervals are 
shown to be six. For that is another ground, in which seven glorifies eight, and 
"the heavens declare to the heavens the glory of God." 
The sensible types of these, then, are the sounds we pronounce. Thus the Lord 
Himself is called "Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end," " by whom all 
things were made, and without whom not even one thing was made." God's resting 
is not, then, as some conceive, that God ceased from doing. For, being good, if 
He should ever cease from doing good, then would He cease from being God, which 
it is sacrilege even to say. The resting is, therefore, the ordering that the 
order of created things should be preserved inviolate, and that each of the 
creatures should cease from the ancient disorder. For the creations on the 
different days followed in a most important succession; so that all things 
brought into existence might have honour from priority, created together in 
thought, but not being of equal worth. Nor was the creation of each signified by 
the voice, inasmuch as the creative work is said to have made them at once. For 
something must needs have been named first. Wherefore those things were 
announced first, from which came those that were second, all things being 
originated together from one essence by one power. For the will of God was one, 
in one identity. And how could creation take place in time, seeing time was born 
along with things which exist. 
And now the whole world of creatures born alive, and things that grow, 
revolves in sevens. The first-born princes of the angels, who have the greatest 
power, are seven. The mathematicians also say that the planets, which perform 
their course around the earth, are seven; by which the Chaldeans think that all 
which concerns mortal life is effected through sympathy, in consequence of which 
they also undertake to tell things respecting the future. 
And of the fixed stars, the Pleiades are seven. And the Bears, by the help of 
which agriculture and navigation are carried through, consist of seven stars. 
And in periods of seven days the moon undergoes its changes. In the first week 
she becomes half moon; in the second, full moon; and in the third, in her wane, 
again half moon; and in the fourth she disappears. Further, as Seleucus the 
mathematician lays down, she has seven phases. First, from being invisible she 
becomes crescent-shaped, then half moon, then gibbous and full; and in her wane 
again gibbous, and in like manner half moon and crescent-shaped. 
"On a seven-stringed lyre we shall sing new hymns," writes a poet of note, 
teaching us that the ancient lyre was seven-toned. The organs of the senses 
situated on our face are also seven -- two eyes, two passages of hearing, two 
nostrils, and the seventh the mouth. 
And that the changes in the periods of life take place by sevens, the Elegies 
of Solan teach thus : "The child, while still an infant, in seven years, 
Produces and puts forth its fence of teeth; And when God seven years more 
completes, He shows of puberty's approach the signs; And in the third, the beard 
on growing cheek With down o'erspreads the bloom of changing skin; And in the 
fourth septenniad, at his best In strength, of manliness he shows the signs; And 
in the fifth, of marriage, now mature, And of posterity, the man bethinks; Nor 
does he yet desire vain works to see. 
The seventh and eighth septenniads see him now In mind and speech mature, 
till fifty years; And in the ninth he still has vigour left, But strength and 
body are for virtue great Less than of yore; when, seven years more, God brings 
To end, then not too soon may he submit to die." 
Again, in diseases the seventh day is that of the crisis; and the fourteenth, 
in which nature struggles against the causes of the diseases. And a myriad such 
instances are adduced by Hermippus of Berytus, in his book On the Number Seven, 
regarding it as holy. And the blessed David delivers clearly to those who know 
the mystic account of seven and eight, praising thus: "Our years were exercised 
like a spider. The days of our years in them are seventy years; but if in 
strength, eighty years. And that will be to reign." That, then, we may be taught 
that the world was originated, and not suppose that God made it in time, 
prophecy adds: "This is the book of the generation: also of the things in them, 
when they were created in the day that God made heaven and earth." For the 
expression "when they were created" intimates an indefinite and dateless 
production. But the expression "in the day that God made," that is, in and by 
which God made "all things," and "without which not even one thing was made," 
points out the activity exerted by the Son. As David says, "This is the day 
which the Lord hath made; let us be glad and rejoice in it; " that is, in 
consequence of the knowledge imparted by Him, let us celebrate the divine 
festival; for the Word that throws light on things hidden, and by whom each 
created thing came into life and being, is called day. 
And, in fine, the Decalogue, by the letter Iota, signifies the blessed name, 
presenting Jesus, who is the Word. 
The Fifth Commandment. 
Now the fifth in order is the command on the honour of father and mother. And 
it clearly announces God as Father and Lord. Wherefore also it calls those who 
know Him sons and gods. The Creator of the universe is their Lord and Father; 
and the mother is not, as some say, the essence from which we sprang, nor, as 
others teach, the Church, but the divine knowledge and wisdom, as Solomon says, 
when he terms wisdom "the mother of the just," and says that it is desirable for 
its own sake. And the knowledge of all, again, that is lovely and venerable, 
proceeds from God through the Son. 
The Seventh Commandment. 
This is followed by the command respecting adultery. Now it is adultery, if 
one, abandoning the ecclesiastical and true knowledge, and the persuasion 
respecting God, accedes to false and incongruous opinion, either by deifying any 
created object, or by making an idol of anything that exists not, so as to 
overstep, or rather step from, knowledge. And to the Gnostic false opinion is 
foreign, as the true belongs to him, and is allied with him. Wherefore the noble 
apostle calls one of the kinds of fornication, idolatry, in following the 
prophet, who says: " [My people] hath committed fornication with stock and 
stone. They have said to the stock, Thou art my father; and to the stone, Thou 
hast begotten me." 
The Sixth Commandment. 
Then follows the command about murder. Now murder is a sure destruction. He, 
then, that wishes to extirpate the true doctrine of God and of immortality, in 
order to introduce. falsehood, alleging either that the universe is not under 
Providence, or that the world is uncrested, or affirming anything against true 
doctrine, is most pernicious. 
The Eight Commandment. 
And after this is the command respecting theft. As, then, he that steals what 
is another's, doing great wrong, rightly incurs ills suitable to his deserts; so 
also does he, who arrogates to himself divine works by the art of the statuary 
or the painter, and pronounces himself to be the maker of animals and plants. 
Likewise those, too, who mimic the true philosophy are thieves. Whether one be a 
husbandman or the father of a child, he is an agent in depositing seeds. But it 
is God who, ministering the growth and perfection of all things, brings the 
things produced to what is in accordance with their nature. But the most, in 
common also with the philosophers, attribute growth and changes to the stars as 
the primary cause, robbing the Father of the universe, as far as in them lies, 
of His tireless might. 
The Father of the universe, as far as in lies, of His tireless might. e 
elements, however, and the stars -- that is, the administrative powers -- are 
ordained for the accomplishment of what is essential to the administration, and 
are influenced and moved by what is commanded to them, in the way in which the 
Word of the Lord leads, since it is the nature of the divine power to work all 
things secretly. He, accordingly, who alleges that he has conceived or made 
anything which pertains to creation, will suffer the punishment of his impious 
audacity. 
The Tenth Commandment. 
And the tenth is the command respecting all lusts. As, then, he who 
entertains unbecoming desires is called to account; in the same way he is not 
allowed to desire things false, or to suppose that, of created objects, those 
that are animate have power of themselves, and that in-animate things can at all 
save or hurt. And should one say that an antidote cannot heal or hemlock kill, 
he is unwittingly deceived. For none of these operates except one makes use of 
the plant and the drug; just as the axe does not without one to cut with it, or 
a saw without one sawing with it. And as they do not work by themselves, but 
have certain physical qualities which accomplish their proper work by the 
exertion of the artisan; so also, by the universal providence of God, through 
the medium of secondary causes, the operative power is propagated in succession 
to individual objects. 
CHAPTER XVII -- PHILOSOPHY CONVEYS ONLY AN IMPERFECT KNOWLEDGE OF GOD. 
But, as appears, the philosophers of the Greeks, while naming God, do not 
know Him. But their philosophical speculations, according to Empedocles, "as 
passing over the tongue of the multitude, are poured out of mouths that know 
little of the whole." For as art changes the light of the sun into fire by 
passing it through a glass vessel full of water, so also philosophy, catching a 
spark from the divine Scripture, is visible in a few. Also, as all animals 
breathe the same air, some in one way, others in another, and to a different 
purpose; so also a considerable number of people occupy themselves with the 
truth, or rather with discourse concerning the truth. For they do not say aught 
respecting God, but expound Him by attributing their own affections to God. For 
they spend life in seeking the probable, not the true. But truth is not taught 
by imitation, but by instruction. For it is not that we may seem good that we 
believe in Christ, as it is not alone for the purpose of being seen, while in 
the sun, that we pass into the sun. But in the one case for the purpose of being 
warmed; and in the other, we are compelled to be Christians in order to be 
excellent and good. For the kingdom belongs pre-eminently to the violent, who, 
from investigation, and study, and discipline, reap this fruit, that they become 
kings. 
He, then, who imitates opinion shows also preconception. When then one, 
having got an inkling of the subject, kindles it within in his soul by desire 
and study, he sets everything in motion afterwards in order to know it. For that 
which one does not apprehend, neither does he desire it, nor does he embrace the 
advantage flowing from it. Subsequently, therefore, the Gnostic at last imitates 
the Lord, as far as allowed to men, having received a sort of quality akin to 
the Lord Himself, in order to assimilation to God. But those who are not 
proficient in knowledge cannot judge the truth by rule. It is not therefore 
possible to share in the gnostic contemplations, unless we empty ourselves of 
our previous notions. For the truth in regard to every object of intellect and 
of sense is thus simply universally declared. For instance, we may distinguish 
the truth of painting from that which is vulgar, and decorous music from 
licentious. There is, then, also a truth of philosophy as distinct from the 
other philosophies, and a true beauty as distinct from the spurious. It is not 
then the partial truths, of which truth is predicated, but the truth itself, 
that we are to investigate, not seeking to learn names. For what is to be 
investigated respecting God is not one thing, but ten thousand. There is a 
difference between declaring God, and declaring things about God. And to speak 
generally, in everything the accidents are to be distinguished from the essence. 

Suffice it for me to say, that the Lord of all is God; and I say the Lord of 
all absolutely, nothing being left by way of exception. 
Since, then, the forms of truth are two- the names and the things -- some 
discourse of names, occupying themselves with the beauties of words: such are 
the philosophers among the Greeks. But we who are Barbarians have the things. 
Now it was not in vain that the Lord chose to make use of a mean form of body; 
so that no one praising the grace and admiring the beauty might turn his back on 
what was said, and attending to what ought to be abandoned, might be cut off 
from what is intellectual. We must therefore occupy ourselves not with the 
expression, but the meaning. 
To those, then, who are not gifted with the power of apprehension, and are 
not inclined to knowledge, the word is not entrusted; since also the ravens 
imitate human voices, having no understanding of the thing which they say. And 
intellectual apprehension depends on faith. Thus also Homer said : "Father of 
men and gods," - knowing not who the Father is, or how He is Father. 
And as to him who has hands it is natural to grasp, and to him who has sound 
eyes to see the light; so it is the natural prerogative of him who has received 
faith to apprehend knowledge, if he desires, on "the foundation" laid, to work, 
and build up "gold, silver, precious stones." 
Accordingly he does not profess to wish to participate, but begins to do so. 
Nor does it belong to him to intend, but to be regal, and illuminated, and 
gnostic. Nor does it appertain to him to wish to grasp things in name, but in 
fact. 
For God, being good, on account of the principal part of the whole creation, 
seeing He wishes to save it, was induced to make the rest also; conferring on 
them at the beginning this first boon, that of existence. For that to be is far 
better than not to be, will be admitted by every one. Then, according to the 
capabilities of their nature, each one was and is made, advancing to that which 
is better. 
So there is no absurdity in philosophy having been given by Divine Providence 
as a preparatory discipline for the perfection which is by Christ; unless 
philosophy is ashamed at learning from Barbarian knowledge how to advance to 
truth. But if "the very hairs are numbered, and the most insignificant motions," 
how shall not philosophy be taken into account? For to Samson power was given in 
his hair, in order that he might perceive that the worthless arts that refer to 
the things in this life, which lie and remain on the ground after the departure 
of the soul, were not given without divine power. 
But it is said Providence, from above, from what is of prime importance, as 
from the head, reaches to all, "as the ointment," it is said, "which descends to 
Aaron's beard, and to the skirt of his garment" (that is, of the great High 
Priest, "by whom all things were made, and without whom not even one thing was 
made" ); not to the ornament of the body; for Philosophy is outside of the 
People, like raiment. The philosophers, therefore, who, trained to their own 
peculiar power of perception by the spirit of perception, when they investigate, 
not a part of philosophy, but philosophy absolutely, testify to the truth in a 
truth-loving and humble spirit; if in the case of good things said by those even 
who are of different sentiments they advance to understanding, through the 
divine administration, and the ineffable Goodness, which always, as far as 
possible, leads the nature of existences to that which is better. Then, by 
cultivating the acquaintance not of Greeks alone, but also of Barbarians, from 
the exercise common to their proper intelligence, they are conducted to Faith. 
And when they have embraced the foundation of truth, they receive in addition 
the power of advancing further to investigation. And thence they love to be 
learners, and aspiring after knowledge, haste to salvation. 
Thus Scripture says, that "the spirit of perception" was given to the 
artificers from God. And this is nothing else than Understanding, a faculty of 
the soul, capable of studying existences, -- of distinguishing and comparing 
what succeeds as like and unlike, -- of enjoining and forbidding, and of 
conjecturing the future. And it extends not to the arts alone, but even to 
philosophy itself. 
Why, then, is the serpent called wise? Because even in its wiles there may be 
found a connection, and distinction, and combination, and conjecturing of the 
future. And so very many crimes are concealed; because the wicked arrange for 
themselves so as by all means to escape punishment. 
And Wisdom being manifold, pervading the whole world, and all human affairs, 
varies its appellation in each case. When it applies itself to first causes, it 
is called Understanding (nohsis). When, however, it confirms this by 
demonstrative reasoning, it is termed Knowledge, and Wisdom, and Science. When 
it is occupied in what pertains to piety, and receives without speculation the 
primal Word in consequence of the maintenance of the operation in it, it is 
called Faith. In the sphere of things of sense, establishing that which appears 
as being truest, it is Right Opinion. In operations, again, performed by skill 
of hand, it is Art But when, on the other hand, without the study of primary 
causes, by the observation of similarities, and by transposition, it makes any 
attempt or combination, it is called Experiment. But belonging to it, and 
supreme and essential, is the Holy Spirit, which above all he who, in 
consequence of [divine] guidance, has believed, receives after strong faith. 
Philosophy, then, partaking of a more exquisite perception, as has been shown 
from the above statements, participates in Wisdom. 
Logical discussion, then, of intellectual subjects, with selection and 
assent, is called Dialectics; which establishes, by demonstration, allegations 
respecting truth, and demolishes the doubts brought forward. 
Those, then, who assert that philosophy did not come hither from God, all but 
say that God does not know each particular thing, and that He is not the cause 
of all good things; if, indeed, each of these belongs to the class of individual 
things. But nothing that exists could have subsisted at all, had God not willed. 
And if He willed, then philosophy is from God, He having willed it to be such as 
it is, for the sake of those who not otherwise than by its means would abstain 
from what is evil. For God knows all things -- not those only which exist, but 
those also which shall be -- and how each thing shall be. 
And foreseeing the particular movements, "He surveys all things, and hears 
all things," seeing the soul naked within; and possesses from eternity the idea 
of each thing individually. And what applies to theatres, and to the parts of 
each object, in looking at, looking round, and taking in the whole in one view, 
applies also to God. For in one glance He views all things together, and each 
thing by itself; but not all things, by way of primary intent. 
Now, then, many things in life take their rise in some exercise of human 
reason, having received the kindling spark from God. For instance, health by 
medicine, and soundness of body through gymnastics, and wealth by trade, have 
their origin and existence in consequence of Divine Providence indeed, but in 
consequence, too, of human co-operation. Understanding also is from God. 
But God's will is especially obeyed by the free-will of good men. Since many 
advantages are common to good and bad men: yet they are nevertheless 
advantageous only to men of goodness and probity, for whose sake God created 
them. For it was for the use of good men that the influence which is in God's 
gifts was originated. Besides, the thoughts of virtuous men are produced through 
the inspiration of God; the soul being disposed in the way it is, and the divine 
will being conveyed to human souls, particular divine ministers contributing to 
such services. For regiments of angels are distributed over the nations and 
cities. And, perchance, some are assigned to individuals. 
The Shepherd, then, cares for each of his sheep; and his closest inspection 
is given to those who are excellent in their natures, and are capable of being 
most useful. Such are those fit to lead and teach, in whom the action of 
Providence is conspicuously seen; whenever either by instruction, or government, 
or administration, God wishes to benefit. But He wishes at all times. Wherefore 
He moves those who are adapted to useful exertion in the things which pertain to 
virtue, and peace, and beneficence. 
But all that is characterized by virtue proceeds from virtue, and leads back 
to virtue. And it is given either in order that men may become good, or that 
those who are so may make use of their natural advantages. For it co-operates 
both in what is general and what is particular. How absurd, then, is it, to 
those who attribute disorder and wickedness to the devil, to make him the 
bestower of philosophy, a virtuous thing! For he is thus all but made more 
benignant to the Greeks, in respect of making men good, than the divine 
providence and mind. 
Again, I reckon it is the part of law and of right reason to assign to each 
one what is appropriate to him, and belongs to him, and falls to him. For as the 
lyre is only for the harper, and the flute for the flute-player; so good things 
are the possessions of good men. As the nature of the beneficent is to do good, 
as it is of the fire to warm, and the light to give light, and a good man will 
not do evil, or light produce darkness, or fire cold; so, again, vice cannot do 
aught virtuous. For its activity is to do evil, as that of darkness to dim the 
eyes. 
Philosophy is not, then, the product of vice, since it makes men virtuous; it 
follows, then, that it is the work of God, whose work it is solely to do good. 
And all things given by God are given and received well. 
Further, if the practice of philosophy does not belong to the wicked, but was 
accorded to the best of the Greeks, it is clear also from what source it was 
bestowed -- manifestly from Providence, which assigns to each what is befitting 
in accordance with his deserts." 
Rightly, then, to the Jews belonged the Law, and to the Greeks Philosophy, 
until the Advent; and after that came the universal calling to be a peculiar 
people of righteousness, through the teaching which flows from faith, brought 
together by one Lord, the only God of both Greeks and Barbarians, or rather of 
the whole race of men. We have often called by the name philosophy that portion 
of truth attained through philosophy, although but partial. 
Now, too what is good in the arts as arts, have their beginning from God. For 
as the doing of anything artistically is embraced in the rules of art, so also 
acting sagaciously is classed under the head of sagacity (fronhsis). Now 
sagacity is virtue, and it is its function to know other things, but much more 
especially what belongs to itself. And Wisdom (Sofia) being power, is 
nothing but the knowledge of good things, divine and human. 
But "the earth is God's, and the fulness thereof," says the Scripture, 
teaching that good things come from God to men; it being through divine power 
and might that the distribution of them comes to the help of man. 
Now the modes of all help and communication from one to another are three. 
One is, by attending to another, as the master of gymnastics, in training the 
boy. The second is, by assimilation, as in the case of one who exhorts another 
to benevolence by practising it before. The one co-operates with the learner, 
and the other benefits him who receives. The third mode is that by command, when 
the gymnastic master, no longer training the learner, nor showing in his own 
person the exercise for the boy to imitate, prescribes the exercise by name to 
him, as already proficient in it. 
The Gnostic, accordingly, having received from God the power to be of 
service, benefits some by disciplining them, by bestowing attention on them; 
others, by exhorting them, by assimilation; and others, by training and teaching 
them, by command. And certainly he himself is equally benefited by the Lord. 
Thus, then, the benefit that comes from God to men becomes known -- angels at 
the same time lending encouragement. For by angels, whether seen or not, the 
divine power bestows good things. Such was the mode adopted in the advent of the 
Lord. And sometimes also the power "breathes" in men's thoughts and reasonings, 
and "puts in" their hearts "strength" and a keener perception, and furnishes 
"prowess" and "boldness of alacrity" both for researches and deeds. 
But exposed for imitation and assimilation are truly admirable and holy 
examples of virtue in the actions put on record. Further, the department of 
action is most conspicuous both in the testaments of the Lord, and in the laws 
in force among the Greeks, and also in the precepts of philosophy. 
And to speak comprehensively, all benefit appertaining to life, in its 
highest reason, proceeding from the Sovereign God, the Father who is over all, 
is consummated by the Son, who also on this account "is the Saviour of all men," 
says the apostle, "but especially of those who believe." But in respect of its 
immediate reason, it is from those next to each, in accordance with the command 
and injunction of Him who is nearest the First Cause, that is, the Lord. 
CHAPTER XVIII -- THE USE OF PHILOSOPHY TO THE GNOSTIC. 
Greek philosophy the recreation of the Gnostic. 
Now our Gnostic always occupies himself with the things of highest 
importance. But if at any time he has leisure and time for relaxation from what 
is of prime consequence, he applies himself to Hellenic philosophy in preference 
to other recreation, feasting on it as a kind of dessert at supper. Not that he 
neglects what is superior; but that he takes this in addition, as long as 
proper, for the reasons I mentioned above. But those who give their mind to the 
unnecessary and superfluous points of philosophy, and addict themselves to 
wrangling sophisms alone, abandon what is necessary and most essential, pursuing 
plainly the shadows of words. 
It is well indeed to know all. But the man whose soul is destitute of the 
ability to reach to acquaintance with many subjects of study, will select the 
principal and better subjects alone. For real science (episthmh, which we 
affirm the Gnostic alone possesses) is a sure comprehension (katalhyis), 
leading up through true and sure reasons to the knowledge (gnpsis) of the 
cause. And he, who is acquainted with what is true respecting any one subject, 
becomes of course acquainted with what is false respecting it. 
Philosophy necessary. 
For truly it appears to me to be a proper point for discussion, Whether we 
ought to philosophize: for its terms are consistent. 
But if we are not to philosophize, what then? (For no one can condemn a thing 
without first knowing it): the consequence, even in that case, is that we must 
philosophize. 
First of all, idols are to be rejected. Such, then, being the case, the 
Greeks ought by the Law and the Prophets to learn to worship one God only, the 
only Sovereign; then to be taught by the apostle, "but to us an idol is no, 
thing in the world," since nothing among created things can be a likeness of 
God; and further, to be taught that none of those images which they worship can 
be similitudes: for the race of souls is not in form such as the Greeks fashion 
their idols. For souls are invisible; not only those that are rational, but 
those also of the other animals. And their bodies never become parts of the 
souls themselves, but organs -- partly as seats, partly as vehicles -- and in 
other cases possessions in various ways. But it is not possible to copy 
accurately even the likenesses of the organs; since, were it so, one might model 
the sun, as it is seen, and take the likeness of the rainbow in colours. 
After abandoning idols, then, they will hear the Scripture, "Unless your 
righteousness exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees " (who 
justified themselves in the way of abstinence from what was evil), -- so as, 
along with such, perfection as they evinced, and "the loving of your neighbour," 
to be able also to do good,you shall not "be kingly." 
For intensification of the righteousness which is according to the law shows 
the Gnostic. So one who is placed in the head, which is that which rules its own 
body -- and who advances to the summit of faith, which is the knowledge (gnosis) 
itself, for which all the organs of perception exist -- will likewise obtain the 
highest inheritance. 
The primacy of knowledge the apostle shows to those capable of reflection, in 
writing to those Greeks of Corinth, in the following terms: "But having hope, 
when your faith is increased, that we shall he magnified in you according to our 
rule abundantly, to preach the Gospel beyond you." He does not mean the 
extension of his preaching locally: for he says also that in Achaia faith 
abounded; and it is related also in the Acts of the Apostles that he preached 
the word in Athens. But he teaches that knowledge (gnosis), which is the 
perfection of faith, goes beyond catechetical instruction, in accordance with 
the magnitude of the Lord's teaching and the rule of the Church. Wherefore also 
he proceeds to add, "And if I am rude in speech, yet I am not in knowledge." 
Whence is the knowledge of truth? 
But let those who vaunt on account of having apprehended the truth tell us 
from whom they boast of having heard it. They will not say from God, but will 
admit that it was from men. And if so, it is either from themselves that they 
have learned it lately, as some of them arrogantly boast, or from others like 
them. But human teachers, speaking of God, are not reliable, as men. For he that 
is man cannot speak worthily the truth concerning God: the feeble and mortal 
[cannot speak worthily] of the Unoriginated and Incorruptible -- the work, of 
the Workman. Then he who is incapable of speaking what is true respecting 
himself, is he not much less reliable in what concerns God? For just as far as 
man is inferior to God in power, so much feebler is man's speech than Him; 
although he do not declare God, but only speak about God and the divine word. 
For human speech is by nature feeble, and incapable of uttering God. I do not 
say His name. For to name it is common, not to philosophers only, but also to 
poets. Nor [do I say] His essence; for this is impossible, but the power and the 
works of God. 
Those even who claim God as their teacher, with difficulty attain to a 
conception of God, grace aiding them to the attainment of their modicum of 
knowledge; accustomed as they are to contemplate the will [of God] by the will, 
and the Holy Spirit by the Holy Spirit. "For the Spirit searches the deep things 
of God. But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit." 
The only wisdom, therefore, is the God-taught wisdom we possess; on which 
depend all the sources of wisdom, which make conjectures at the truth. 
Intimations of the Teacher's advent Assuredly of the coming of the Lord, who 
has taught us, to men, there were a myriad indicators, heralds, preparers, 
precursors, from the beginning, from the foundation of the world, intimating 
beforehand by deeds and words, prophesying that He would come, and where, and 
how, what should be the signs. 
From afar certainly Law and Prophecy kept Him in view beforehand. And then 
the precursor pointed Him out as present. After whom the heralds point out by 
their teaching the virtue of His manifestation. 
Universal diffusion of the Gospel a contrast to philosophy. 
The philosophers, however, chose to [teach philosophy] to the Greeks alone, 
and not even to all of them; but Socrates to Plato, and Plato to Xenocrates, 
Aristotle to Theophrastus, and Zeno to Cleanthes, who persuaded their own 
followers alone. 
But the word of our Teacher remained not in Judea alone, as philosophy did in 
Greece; but was diffused over the whole world, over every nation, and village, 
and town, bringing already over to the truth whole houses, and each individual 
of those who heard it by him himself, and not a few of the philosophers 
themselves. 
And if any one ruler whatever prohibit the Greek philosophy, it vanishes 
forthwith. But our doctrine on its very first proclamation was prohibited by 
kings and tyrants together, as well as particular rulers and governors, with all 
their mercenaries, and in addition by innumerable men, warring against us, and 
endeavouring as far as they could to exterminate it. But it flourishes the more. 
For it dies not, as human doctrine dies, nor fades as a fragile gift. For no 
gift of God is fragile. But it remains unchecked, though prophesied as destined 
to be persecuted to the end. Thus Plato writes of poetry: "A poet is a light and 
a sacred thing, and cannot write poetry till he be inspired and lose his 
senses." And Democritus similarly: "Whatever things a poet writes with divine 
afflatus, and with a sacred spirit, are very beautiful." And we know what sort 
of things poets say. And shall no one be amazed at the prophets of God Almighty 
becoming the organs of the divine voice? 
Having then moulded, as it were, a statue of the Gnostic, we have now shown 
who he is; indicating in outline, as it were, both the greatness and beauty of 
his character. What he is as to the study of physical phenomena shall be shown 
afterwards, when we begin to treat of the creation of the world. 


