
Colossians












The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Colossians 

1:1Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through 
the will of God, and Timothy our brother, 1:2To the saints and faithful brethren in 
Christ that are at Colossae: Grace to you and peace from God our Father. 
1:3We give thanks to God the Father of our 
Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you, 1:4having heard of your 
faith in Christ Jesus, and of the love which ye have toward all the saints, 1:5because of the hope which is laid up for 
you in the heavens, whereof ye heard before in the word of the truth of the 
gospel, 1:6which is come unto you; even as it is 
also in all the world bearing fruit and increasing, as it doth in you 
also, since the day ye heard and knew the grace of God in truth; 1:7even 
as ye learned of Epaphras our beloved fellow-servant, who is a faithful minister 
of Christ on our behalf, 1:8who also declared unto us your love in 
the Spirit. 1:9For this cause we also, since the day we 
heard it, do not cease to pray and make request for you, that ye may be 
filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, 
1:10to walk worthily of the Lord unto all 
pleasing, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of 
God; 1:11strengthened with all power, according 
to the might of his glory, unto all patience and longsuffering with joy; 1:12giving thanks unto the Father, who made 
us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light; 1:13who delivered us out of the power of 
darkness, and translated us into the kingdom of the Son of his love; 1:14in 
whom we have our redemption, the forgiveness of our sins: 1:15who is the image of 
the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation; 1:16for in him were all 
things created, in the heavens and upon the earth, things visible and things 
invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers; all things 
have been created through him, and unto him; 1:17and he is before 
all things, and in him all things consist. 1:18And he is the head 
of the body, the church: who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead; that 
in all things he might have the preeminence. 1:19For it was the good 
pleasure of the Father that in him should all the fulness dwell; 1:20and through him to reconcile all things 
unto himself, having made peace through the blood of his cross; through him, 
I say, whether things upon the earth, or things in the heavens. 1:21And you, being in time past alienated 
and enemies in your mind in your evil works, 1:22yet now hath he 
reconciled in the body of his flesh through death, to present you holy and 
without blemish and unreproveable before him: 1:23if so be that ye 
continue in the faith, grounded and stedfast, and not moved away from the hope 
of the gospel which ye heard, which was preached in all creation under heaven; 
whereof I Paul was made a minister. 1:24Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your 
sake, and fill up on my part that which is lacking of the afflictions of Christ 
in my flesh for his body's sake, which is the church; 1:25whereof I was made 
a minister, according to the dispensation of God which was given me to you-ward, 
to fulfil the word of God, 1:26even the mystery which hath been 
hid for ages and generations: but now hath it been manifested to his saints, 1:27to 
whom God was pleased to make known what is the riches of the glory of this 
mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory: 1:28whom we proclaim, admonishing every man 
and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man perfect in 
Christ; 1:29whereunto I labor also, striving 
according to his working, which worketh in me mightily. 

2:1For I would have you know how greatly I 
strive for you, and for them at Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my 
face in the flesh; 2:2that their hearts may be comforted, they 
being knit together in love, and unto all riches of the full assurance of 
understanding, that they may know the mystery of God, even Christ, 2:3in 
whom are all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge hidden. 2:4This I say, that no 
one may delude you with persuasiveness of speech. 2:5For though I am 
absent in the flesh, yet am I with you in the spirit, joying and beholding your 
order, and the stedfastness of your faith in Christ. 2:6As therefore ye 
received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, 2:7rooted and builded 
up in him, and established in your faith, even as ye were taught, abounding in 
thanksgiving. 2:8Take heed lest there shall be any one 
that maketh spoil of you through his philosophy and vain deceit, after the 
tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ: 2:9for 
in him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily, 2:10and in him ye are 
made full, who is the head of all principality and power: 2:11in whom ye were 
also circumcised with a circumcision not made with hands, in the putting off of 
the body of the flesh, in the circumcision of Christ; 2:12having been buried 
with him in baptism, wherein ye were also raised with him through faith in the 
working of God, who raised him from the dead. 2:13And you, being dead 
through your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, you, I say, 
did he make alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses; 2:14having blotted out the bond written in 
ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us: and he hath taken it 
out that way, nailing it to the cross; 2:15having despoiled the principalities and 
the powers, he made a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it. 2:16Let no man therefore judge you in meat, 
or in drink, or in respect of a feast day or a new moon or a sabbath day: 2:17which are a shadow of the things to 
come; but the body is Christ's. 2:18Let no man rob you of your prize by a 
voluntary humility and worshipping of the angels, dwelling in the things which 
he hath seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind, 2:19and not holding 
fast the Head, from whom all the body, being supplied and knit together through 
the joints and bands, increasing with the increase of God. 2:20If ye died with 
Christ from the rudiments of the world, why, as though living in the world, do 
ye subject yourselves to ordinances, 2:21Handle not, nor taste, nor touch 2:22(all which things are to perish with 
the using), after the precepts and doctrines of men? 2:23Which things have 
indeed a show of wisdom in will-worship, and humility, and severity to the body; 
but are not of any value against the indulgence of the flesh. 

3:1If then ye were raised together with 
Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated on the right 
hand of God. 3:2Set your mind on the things that are 
above, not on the things that are upon the earth. 3:3For ye died, and 
your life is hid with Christ in God. 3:4When Christ, who is our life, 
shall be manifested, then shall ye also with him be manifested in glory. 3:5Put 
to death therefore your members which are upon the earth: fornication, 
uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry; 3:6for 
which things' sake cometh the wrath of God upon the sons of disobedience: 3:7wherein ye also once walked, when ye 
lived in these things; 3:8but now do ye also put them all away: 
anger, wrath, malice, railing, shameful speaking out of your mouth: 3:9lie 
not one to another; seeing that ye have put off the old man with his doings, 3:10and have put on the new man, that is 
being renewed unto knowledge after the image of him that created him: 3:11where there cannot be Greek and Jew, 
circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bondman, freeman; but 
Christ is all, and in all. 3:12Put on therefore, as God's elect, holy 
and beloved, a heart of compassion, kindness, lowliness, meekness, 
longsuffering; 3:13forbearing one another, and forgiving 
each other, if any man have a complaint against any; even as the Lord forgave 
you, so also do ye: 3:14and above all these things put 
on love, which is the bond of perfectness. 3:15And let the peace 
of Christ rule in your hearts, to the which also ye were called in one body; and 
be ye thankful. 3:16Let the word of Christ dwell in you 
richly; in all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another with psalms 
and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts 
unto God. 3:17And whatsoever ye do, in word or in 
deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the 
Father through him. 3:18Wives, be in subjection to your 
husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. 3:19Husbands, love your wives, and be not 
bitter against them. 3:20Children, obey your parents in all 
things, for this is well-pleasing in the Lord. 3:21Fathers, provoke 
not your children, that they be not discouraged. 3:22Servants, obey in 
all things them that are your masters according to the flesh; not with 
eye-service, as men-pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing the Lord: 3:23whatsoever ye do, work heartily, as 
unto the Lord, and not unto men; 3:24knowing that from the Lord ye shall 
receive the recompense of the inheritance: ye serve the Lord Christ. 3:25For he that doeth wrong shall receive 
again for the wrong that he hath done: and there is no respect of persons. 


4:1Masters, render unto your servants that 
which is just and equal; knowing that ye also have a Master in heaven. 4:2Continue stedfastly in prayer, watching 
therein with thanksgiving; 4:3withal praying for us also, that God may 
open unto us a door for the word, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am 
also in bonds; 4:4that I may make it manifest, as I ought 
to speak. 4:5Walk in wisdom toward them that are 
without, redeeming the time. 4:6Let your speech be always with grace, 
seasoned with salt, that ye may know how ye ought to answer each one. 4:7All 
my affairs shall Tychicus make known unto you, the beloved brother and faithful 
minister and fellow-servant in the Lord: 4:8whom I have sent you for this very 
purpose, that ye may know our state, and that he may comfort your hearts; 4:9together with Onesimus, the faithful and 
beloved brother, who is one of you. They shall make known unto you all things 
that are done here. 4:10Aristarchus my fellow-prisoner saluteth 
you, and Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (touching whom ye received commandments; 
if he come unto you, receive him), 4:11and Jesus that is called Justus, who 
are of the circumcision: these only are my fellow-workers unto the 
kingdom of God, men that have been a comfort unto me. 4:12Epaphras, who is 
one of you, a servant of Christ Jesus, saluteth you, always striving for you in 
his prayers, that ye may stand perfect and fully assured in all the will of God. 
4:13For I bear him witness, that he hath 
much labor for you, and for them in Laodicea, and for them in Hierapolis. 4:14Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas 
salute you. 4:15Salute the brethren that are in 
Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the church that is in their house. 4:16And when this epistle hath been read 
among you, cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans; and that 
ye also read the epistle from Laodicea. 4:17And say to Archippus, Take heed to the 
ministry which thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfil it. 4:18The salutation of me Paul with mine own 
hand. Remember my bonds. Grace be with you. 

