
A Dialogue on Oratory by Tacitus











A DIALOGUE CONCERNING ORATORY, OR THE CAUSES OF CORRUPT
ELOQUENCE.

I. General introduction, with the reasons for
writing an account of the following discourse.
II. The persons engaged in the dialogue; at
first, Curiatius Maternus, Julius Secundus, and Marcus Aper.
III. Secundus endeavours to dissuade
Maternus from thinking any more of dramatic composition.
IV. Maternus gives his reasons for
persisting.
V. Aper condemns his resolution, and, in point
of utility, real happiness, fame and dignity, contends that the
oratorical profession is preferable to the poetical.
VIII. He cites the example of Eprius
Marcellus and Crispus Vibius, who raised themselves by their
eloquence to the highest honours.
IX. Poetical fame brings with it no
advantage.
X. He exhorts Maternus to relinquish the
muses, and devote his whole to eloquence and the business of the
bar.
XI. Maternus defends his favourite studies;
the pleasures arising from poetry are in their nature innocent and
sublime; the fame is extensive and immortal. The poet enjoys the
most delightful intercourse with his friends, whereas the life of
the public orator is a state of warfare and anxiety.
XIV. Vipstanius Messala enters the room. He
finds his friends engaged in a controversy, and being an admirer of
ancient eloquence, he advises Aper to adopt the model of the
ancients in preference to the plan of the modern rhetoricians.
XV. Hence a difference of opinion concerning
the merit of the ancients and the moderns. Messala, Secundus, and
Maternus, profess themselves admirers of the oratory that
flourished in the time of the republic. Aper launches out against
the ancients, and gives the preference to the advocates of his own
time. He desires to know who are to be accounted ancients.
XVIII. Eloquence has various modes, all
changing with the conjuncture of the times. But it is the nature of
men to praise the past, and censure the present. The period when
Cassius Severus flourished, is stated to be the point of time at
which men cease to be ancients; Cassius with good reason deviated
from the ancient manner.
XX. Defects of ancient eloquence: the modern
style more refined and elegant.
XXI. The character of Calvus, Cælius,
Cæsar and Brutus, and also of Asinius Pollio, and Messala
Corvinus.
XXII. The praise and censure of Cicero.
XXIII. The true rhetorical art consists in
blending the virtues of ancient oratory with the beauties of the
modern style.
XXIV. Maternus observes that there can be
no dispute about the superior reputation of the ancient orators: he
therefore calls upon Messala to take that point for granted, and
proceed to an enquiry into the causes that produced so great an
alteration.
XXV. After some observations on the
eloquence of Calvus, Asinius Pollio, Cæsar, Cicero, and
others, Messala praises Gracchus and Lucius Crassus, but censures
Mæcenas, Gallio, and Cassius Severus.
XXVII. Maternus reminds Messala of the
true point in question; Messala proceeds to assign the causes which
occasioned the decay of eloquence, such as the dissipation of the
young men, the inattention of their parents, the ignorance of
rhetorical professors, and the total neglect of ancient
discipline.
XXXIV. He proceeds to explain the plan of
study, and the institutions, customs, and various arts, by which
orators were formed in the time of the republic.
XXXV. The defects and vices in the new
system of education. In this part of the dialogue, the sequel of
Messala's discourse is lost, with the whole of what was said by
Secundus, and the beginning of Maternus: the supplement goes on
from this place, distinguished by inverted commas [transcriber's
note: not used], and the sections marked with numerical
figures.
1. Messala describes the presumption of the
young advocates on their first appearance at the bar; their want of
legal knowledge, and the absurd habits which they contracted in the
schools of the rhetoricians.
2. Eloquence totally ruined by the preceptors.
Messala concludes with desiring Secundus and Maternus to assign the
reasons which have occurred to them.
4. Secundus gives his opinion. The change of
government produced a new mode of eloquence. The orators under the
emperors endeavoured to be ingenious rather than natural. Seneca
the first who introduced a false taste, which still prevailed in
the reign of Vespasian.
8. Licinius Largus taught the advocates of his
time the disgraceful art of hiring applauders by profession. This
was the bane of all true oratory, and, for that reason, Maternus
was right in renouncing the forum altogether.
10. Maternus acknowledges that he was
disgusted by the shameful practices that prevailed at the bar, and
therefore resolved to devote the rest of his time to poetry and the
muses.
11. An apology for the rhetoricians. The
praise of Quintilian. True eloquence died with Cicero.
13. The loss of liberty was the ruin of
genuine oratory. Demosthenes flourished under a free government.
The original goes on from this place to the end of the
dialogue.
XXXVI. Eloquence flourishes most in times
of public tumult. The crimes of turbulent citizens supply the
orator with his best materials.
XXXVII. In the time of the republic,
oratorical talents were necessary qualifications, and without them
no man was deemed worthy of being advanced to the magistracy.
XXXVIII. The Roman orators were not
confined in point of time; they might extend their speeches to what
length they thought proper, and could even adjourn. Pompey abridged
the liberty of speech, and limited the time.
XXXIX. The very dress of the advocates
under the emperors was prejudicial to eloquence.
XL. True eloquence springs from the vices of
men, and never was known to exist under a calm and settled
government.
XLI. Eloquence changes with the times. Every
age has its own peculiar advantages, and invidious comparisons are
unnecessary.
XLII. Conclusion of the dialogue.

The time of this dialogue was the sixth of Vespasian's
reign.
Year of Rome—Of
Christ    Consuls.
828       
        75         
Vespasian, 6th time; Titus his son, 4th time.


A DIALOGUE CONCERNING ORATORY, OR THE CAUSES OF CORRUPT
ELOQUENCE.

I. You have often enquired of me, my good friend, Justus Fabius, how and from what
causes it has proceeded, that while ancient times display a race of
great and splendid orators, the present age, dispirited, and
without any claim to the praise of eloquence, has scarcely retained
the name of an orator. By that appellation we now distinguish none
but those who flourished in a former period. To the eminent of the
present day, we give the title of speakers, pleaders, advocates,
patrons, in short, every thing but orators.
The enquiry is in its nature delicate; tending, if we are not
able to contend with antiquity, to impeach our genius, and if we
are not willing, to arraign our judgement. An answer to so nice a
question is more than I should venture to undertake, were I to rely
altogether upon myself: but it happens, that I am able to state the
sentiments of men distinguished by their eloquence, such as it is
in modern times; having, in the early part of my life, been present
at their conversation on the very subject now before us. What I
have to offer, will not be the result of my own thinking: it is the
work of memory only; a mere recital of what fell from the most
celebrated orators of their time: a set of men, who thought with
subtilty, and expressed themselves with energy and precision; each,
in his turn, assigning different but probable causes, at times
insisting on the same, and, in the course of the debate,
maintaining his own proper character, and the peculiar cast of his
mind. What they said upon the occasion, I shall relate, as nearly
as may be, in the style and manner of the several speakers,
observing always the regular course and order of the controversy.
For a controversy it certainly was, where the speakers of the
present age did not want an advocate, who supported their cause
with zeal, and, after treating antiquity with sufficient freedom,
and even derision, assigned the palm of eloquence to the practisers
of modern times.

II. Curiatius Maternus gave a public reading of his tragedy of Cato. On the
following day a report prevailed, that the piece had given umbrage
to the men in power. The author, it was said, had laboured to
display his favourite character in the brightest colours; anxious
for the fame of his hero, but regardless of himself. This soon
became the topic of public conversation. Maternus received a visit
from Marcus Aper and
Julius Secundus, both
men of genius, and the first ornaments of the forum. I was, at that
time, a constant attendant on those eminent men. I heard them, not
only in their scenes of public business, but, feeling an
inclination to the same studies, I followed them with all the
ardour of youthful emulation. I was admitted to their private
parties; I heard their debates, and the amusement of their social
hours: I treasured up their wit, and their sentiments on the
various topics which they had discussed in conversation. Respected
as they were, it must, however, be acknowledged that they did not
escape the malignity of criticism. It was objected to Secundus,
that he had no command of words, no flow of language; and to Aper,
that he was indebted for his fame, not to art or literature, but to
the natural powers of a vigorous understanding. The truth is, the
style of the former was remarkable for its purity; concise, yet
free and copious; and the latter was sufficiently versed in all
branches of general erudition. It might be said of him, that he
despised literature, not that he wanted it. He thought, perhaps,
that, by scorning the aid of letters, and by drawing altogether
from his own fund, his fame would stand on a more solid
foundation.

III. We went together to pay our visit to Maternus. Upon
entering his study, we found him with the tragedy, which he had
read on the preceding day, lying before him. Secundus began: And
are you then so little affected by the censure of malignant
critics, as to persist in cherishing a tragedy which has given so
much offence? Perhaps you are revising the piece, and, after
retrenching certain passages, intend to send your Cato into the
world, I will not say improved, but certainly less obnoxious. There
lies the poem, said Maternus; you may, if you think proper, peruse
it with all its imperfections on its head. If Cato has omitted any
thing, Thyestes,
at my next reading, shall atone for all deficiencies. I have formed
the fable of a tragedy on that subject: the plan is warm in my
imagination, and, that I may give my whole time to it, I now am
eager to dispatch an edition of Cato. Marcus Aper interposed: And
are you, indeed, so enamoured of your dramatic muse, as to renounce
your oratorical character, and the honours of your profession, in
order to sacrifice your time, I think it was lately to Medea, and
now to Thyestes? Your friends, in the mean time, expect your
patronage; the colonies invoke your aid, and the municipal cities invite
you to the bar. And surely the weight of so many causes may be
deemed sufficient, without this new solicitude imposed upon you by
Domitius or Cato.
And must you thus waste all your time, amusing yourself for ever
with scenes of fictitious distress, and still labouring to add to
the fables of Greece the incidents and characters of the Roman
story?

IV. The sharpness of that reproof, replied Maternus, would,
perhaps, have disconcerted me, if, by frequent repetition, it had
not lost its sting. To differ on this subject is grown familiar to
us both. Poetry, it seems, is to expect no quarter: you wage an
incessant war against the followers of that pleasing art; and I,
who am charged with deserting my clients, have yet every day the
cause of poetry to defend. But we have now a fair opportunity, and
I embrace it with pleasure, since we have a person present, of
ability to decide between us; a judge, who will either lay me under
an injunction to write no more verses, or, as I rather hope,
encourage me, by his authority, to renounce for ever the dry
employment of forensic causes (in which I have had my share of
drudgery), that I may, for the future, be at leisure to cultivate
the sublime and sacred eloquence of the tragic muse.

V. Secundus desired to be heard: I am aware, he said, that Aper
may refuse me as an umpire. Before he states his objections, let me
follow the example of all fair and upright judges, who, in
particular cases, when they feel a partiality for one of the
contending parties, desire to be excused from hearing the cause.
The friendship and habitual intercourse, which I have ever
cultivated with Saleius Bassus, that excellent man, and no less excellent poet, are
well known: and let me add, if poetry is to be arraigned, I know no
client that can offer such handsome bribes.
My business, replied Aper, is not with Saleius Bassus: let him,
and all of his description, who, without talents for the bar,
devote their time to the muses, pursue their favourite amusement
without interruption. But Maternus must not think to escape in the
crowd. I single him out from the rest, and since we are now before
a competent judge, I call upon him to answer, how it happens, that
a man of his talents, formed by nature to reach the heights of
manly eloquence, can think of renouncing a profession, which not
only serves to multiply friendships, but to support them with
reputation: a profession, which enables us to conciliate the esteem
of foreign nations, and (if we regard our own interest) lays open
the road to the first honours of the state; a profession, which,
besides the celebrity that it gives within the walls of Rome,
spreads an illustrious name throughout this wide extent of the
empire.
If it be wisdom to make the ornament and happiness of life the
end and aim of our actions, what can be more advisable than to
embrace an art, by which we are enabled to protect our friends; to
defend the cause of strangers; and succour the distressed? Nor is
this all: the eminent orator is a terror to his enemies: envy and
malice tremble, while they hate him. Secure in his own strength, he
knows how to ward off every danger. His own genius is his
protection; a perpetual guard, that watches him; an invincible
power, that shields him from his enemies.
In the calm seasons of life, the true use of oratory consists in
the assistance which it affords to our fellow-citizens. We then
behold the triumph of eloquence. Have we reason to be alarmed for
ourselves, the sword and breast-plate are not a better defence in
the heat of battle. It is at once a buckler to cover yourself and a weapon to brandish
against your enemy. Armed with this, you may appear with courage
before the tribunals of justice, in the senate, and even in the
presence of the prince. We lately saw Eprius Marcellus arraigned before the fathers: in
that moment, when the minds of the whole assembly were inflamed
against him, what had he to oppose to the vehemence of his enemies,
but that nervous eloquence which he possessed in so eminent a
degree? Collected in himself, and looking terror to his enemies, he
was more than a match for Helvidius Priscus; a man, no doubt, of
consummate wisdom, but without that flow of eloquence, which
springs from practice, and that skill in argument, which is
necessary to manage a public debate. Such is the advantage of
oratory: to enlarge upon it were superfluous. My friend Maternus
will not dispute the point.

VI. I proceed to the pleasure arising from the exercise of
eloquence; a pleasure which does not consist in the mere sensation
of the moment, but is felt through life, repeated every day, and
almost every hour. For let me ask, to a man of an ingenuous and
liberal mind, who knows the relish of elegant enjoyments, what can
yield such true delight, as a concourse of the most respectable
characters crowding to his levee? How must it enhance his pleasure,
when he reflects, that the visit is not paid to him because he is
rich, and wants an heir, or is in possession of a public office, but purely
as a compliment to superior talents, a mark of respect to a great
and accomplished orator! The rich who have no issue, and the men in
high rank and power, are his followers. Though he is still young,
and probably destitute of fortune, all concur in paying their court
to solicit his patronage for themselves, or to recommend their
friends to his protection. In the most splendid fortune, in all the
dignity and pride of power, is there any thing that can equal the
heartfelt satisfaction of the able advocate, when he sees the most
illustrious citizens, men respected for their years, and
flourishing in the opinion of the public, yet paying their court to
a rising genius, and, in the midst of wealth and grandeur, fairly
owning, that they still want something superior to all their
possessions? What shall be said of the attendants, that follow the
young orator from the bar, and watch his motions to his own house?
With what importance does he appear to the multitude! in the courts
of judicature, with what veneration! When he rises to speak, the
audience is hushed in mute attention; every eye is fixed on him
alone; the crowd presses round him; he is master of their passions;
they are swayed, impelled, directed, as he thinks proper. These are
the fruits of eloquence, well known to all, and palpable to every
common observer.
There are other pleasures more refined and secret, felt only by
the initiated. When the orator, upon some great occasion, comes
with a well-digested speech, conscious of his matter, and animated
by his subject, his breast expands, and heaves with emotions unfelt
before. In his joy there is a dignity suited to the weight and
energy of the composition which he has prepared. Does he rise to
hazard himself in a
sudden debate; he is alarmed for himself, but in that very alarm
there is a mingle of pleasure, which predominates, till distress
itself becomes delightful. The mind exults in the prompt exertion
of its powers, and even glories in its rashness. The productions of
genius, and those of the field, have this resemblance: many things
are sown, and brought to maturity with toil and care; yet that,
which grows from the wild vigour of nature, has the most grateful
flavour.
VII. As to myself, if I may allude to my own feelings, the day
on which I put on the manly gown, and even the days that followed, when, as a new
man at Rome, born in a city that did not favour my pretensions, I rose in
succession to the offices of quæstor, tribune, and
prætor; those days, I say, did not awaken in my breast such
exalted rapture, as when, in the course of my profession, I was
called forth, with such talents as have fallen to my share, to
defend the accused; to argue a question of law before the
centumviri, or, in
the presence of the prince, to plead for his freedmen, and the
procurators appointed by himself. Upon those occasions I towered
above all places of profit, and all preferment; I looked down on
the dignities of tribune, prætor, and consul; I felt within
myself, what neither the favour of the great, nor the wills and
codicils of the
rich, can give, a vigour of mind, an inward energy, that springs
from no external cause, but is altogether your own.
Look through the circle of the fine arts, survey the whole
compass of the sciences, and tell me in what branch can the
professors acquire a name to vie with the celebrity of a great and
powerful orator. His fame does not depend on the opinion of
thinking men, who attend to business and watch the administration
of affairs; he is applauded by the youth of Rome, at least by such
of them as are of a well-turned disposition, and hope to rise by
honourable means. The eminent orator is the model which every
parent recommends to his children. Even the common people stand at gaze, as he
passes by; they pronounce his name with pleasure, and point at him
as the object of their admiration. The provinces resound with his
praise. The strangers, who arrive from all parts, have heard of his
genius; they wish to behold the man, and their curiosity is never
at rest, till they have seen his person, and perused his
countenance.

VIII. I have already mentioned Eprius Marcellus and Crispus
Vibius. I cite
living examples, in preference to the names of a former day. Those
two illustrious persons, I will be bold to say, are not less known
in the remotest parts of the empire, than they are at Capua, or
Vercellæ,
where, we are told, they both were born. And to what is their
extensive fame to be attributed? Not surely to their immoderate
riches. Three hundred thousand sesterces cannot give the fame of
genius. Their eloquence may be said to have built up their
fortunes; and, indeed, such is the power, I might say the
inspiration, of eloquence, that in every age we have examples of
men, who by their talents raised themselves to the summit of their
ambition.
But I waive all former instances. The two, whom I have
mentioned, are not recorded in history, nor are we to glean an
imperfect knowledge of them from tradition; they are every day
before our eyes. They have risen from low beginnings; but the more
abject their origin, and the more sordid the poverty, in which they
set out, their success rises in proportion, and affords a striking
proof of what I have advanced; since it is apparent, that, without
birth or fortune, neither of them recommended by his moral
character, and one of them deformed in his person, they have,
notwithstanding all disadvantages, made themselves, for a series of
years, the first men in the state. They began their career in the
forum, and, as long as they chose to pursue that road of ambition,
they flourished in the highest reputation; they are now at the head
of the commonwealth, the ministers who direct and govern, and so
high in favour with the prince, that the respect, with which he
receives them, is little short of veneration.
The truth is, Vespasian, now in the vale of years, but always open to the
voice of truth, clearly sees that the rest of his favourites derive
all their lustre from the favours, which his munificence has
bestowed; but with Marcellus and Crispus the case is different:
they carry into the cabinet, what no prince can give, and no
subject can receive. Compared with the advantages which those men
possess, what are family-pictures, statues, busts, and titles of
honour? They are things of a perishable nature, yet not without
their value. Marcellus and Vibius know how to estimate them, as
they do wealth and honours; and wealth and honours are advantages
against which you will easily find men that declaim, but none that
in their hearts despise them. Hence it is, that in the houses of
all who have distinguished themselves in the career of eloquence,
we see titles, statues, and splendid ornaments, the reward of
talents, and, at all times, the decorations of the great and
powerful orator.

IX. But to come to the point, from which we started: poetry, to
which my friend Maternus wishes to dedicate all his time, has none
of these advantages. It confers no dignity, nor does it serve any
useful purpose. It is attended with some pleasure, but it is the
pleasure of a moment, springing from vain applause, and bringing
with it no solid advantage. What I have said, and am going to add,
may probably, my good friend Maternus, be unwelcome to your ear;
and yet I must take the liberty to ask you, if Agamemnon or Jason speaks in your piece
with dignity of language, what useful consequence follows from it?
What client has been defended? Who confesses an obligation? In that
whole audience, who returns to his own house with a grateful heart?
Our friend Saleius Bassus is, beyond all question, a poet of eminence, or, to
use a warmer expression, he has the god within him: but who attends
his levee? who seeks his patronage, or follows in his train? Should
he himself, or his intimate friend, or his near relation, happen to
be involved in a troublesome litigation, what course do you imagine
he would take? He would, most probably, apply to his friend,
Secundus; or to you, Maternus; not because you are a poet, nor yet
to obtain a copy of verses from you; of those he has a sufficient
stock at home, elegant, it must be owned, and exquisite in the
kind. But after all his labour and waste of genius, what is his
reward?
When in the course of a year, after toiling day and night, he
has brought a single poem to perfection, he is obliged to solicit
his friends and exert his interest, in order to bring together an
audience, so obliging
as to hear a recital of the piece. Nor can this be done without
expence. A room must be hired, a stage or pulpit must be erected;
benches must be arranged, and hand-bills distributed throughout the
city. What if the reading succeeds to the height of his wishes?
Pass but a day or two, and the whole harvest of praise and
admiration fades away, like a flower that withers in its bloom, and
never ripens into fruit. By the event, however flattering, he gains
no friend, he obtains no patronage, nor does a single person go
away impressed with the idea of an obligation conferred upon him.
The poet has been heard with applause; he has been received with
acclamations; and he has enjoyed a short-lived transport.
Bassus, it is true, has lately received from Vespasian a present
of fifty thousand sesterces. Upon that occasion, we all admired the
generosity of the prince. To deserve so distinguished a proof of
the sovereign's esteem is, no doubt, highly honourable; but is it
not still more honourable, if your circumstances require it, to
serve yourself by your talents? to cultivate your genius, for your
own advantage? and to owe every thing to your own industry,
indebted to the bounty of no man whatever? It must not be
forgotten, that the poet, who would produce any thing truly
excellent in the kind, must bid farewell to the conversation of his
friends; he must renounce, not only the pleasures of Rome, but also
the duties of social life; he must retire from the world; as the
poets say, "to groves and grottos every muse's son." In other
words, he must condemn himself to a sequestered life in the gloom
of solitude.

X. The love of fame, it seems, is the passion that inspires the
poet's genius: but even in this respect, is he so amply paid as to
rival in any degree the professors of the persuasive arts? As to
the indifferent poet, men leave him to his own mediocrity: the real genius moves in a
narrow circle. Let there be a reading of a poem by the ablest
master of his art: will the fame of his performance reach all
quarters, I will not say of the empire, but of Rome only? Among the
strangers who arrive from Spain, from Asia, or from Gaul, who
enquires after Saleius
Bassus? Should it happen that there is one, who thinks, of him; his
curiosity is soon satisfied; he passes on, content with a transient
view, as if he had seen a picture or a statue.
In what I have advanced, let me not be misunderstood: I do not
mean to deter such as are not blessed with the gift of oratory,
from the practice of their favourite art, if it serves to fill up
their time, and gain a degree of reputation. I am an admirer of
eloquence; I hold it
venerable, and even sacred, in all its shapes, and every mode of
composition. The pathetic of tragedy, of which you, Maternus, are
so great a master; the majesty of the epic, the gaiety of the lyric
muse; the wanton elegy, the keen iambic, and the pointed epigram;
all have their charms; and Eloquence, whatever may be the subject
which she chooses to adorn, is with me the sublimest faculty, the
queen of all the arts and sciences. But this, Maternus, is no
apology for you, whose conduct is so extraordinary, that, though
formed by nature to reach the summit of perfection, you choose to wander into devious
paths, and rest contented with an humble station in the vale
beneath.
Were you a native of Greece, where to exhibit in the public
games is an honourable
employment; and if the gods had bestowed upon you the force and
sinew of the athletic Nicostratus; do you imagine that I could look tamely on, and see
that amazing vigour waste itself away in nothing better than the
frivolous art of darting the javelin, or throwing the coit? To drop
the allusion, I summon you from the theatre and public recitals to
the business of the forum, to the tribunals of justice, to scenes
of real contention, to a conflict worthy of your abilities. You
cannot decline the challenge, for you are left without an excuse.
You cannot say, with a number of others, that the profession of
poetry is safer than that of the public orator; since you have
ventured, in a tragedy written with spirit, to display the ardour
of a bold and towering genius.
And for whom have you provoked so many enemies? Not for a
friend; that would have had alleviating circumstances. You
undertook the cause of Cato, and for him committed yourself. You
cannot plead, by way of apology, the duty of an advocate, or the
sudden effusion of sentiment in the heat and hurry of an
unpremeditated speech. Your plan was settled; a great historical
personage was your hero, and you chose him, because what falls from
so distinguished a character, falls from a height that gives it
additional weight. I am aware of your answer: you will say, it was
that very circumstance that ensured the success of your piece; the
sentiments were received with sympathetic rapture: the room echoed
with applause, and hence your fame throughout the city of Rome.
Then let us hear no more of your love of quiet and a state of
security: you have voluntarily courted danger. For myself, I am
content with controversies of a private nature, and the incidents
of the present day. If, hurried beyond the bounds of prudence, I
should happen, on any occasion, to grate the ears of men in power,
the zeal of an advocate, in the service of his client, will excuse
the honest freedom of speech, and, perhaps, be deemed a proof of
integrity.

XI. Aper went through his argument, according to his custom,
with warmth and vehemence. He delivered the whole with a peremptory
tone and an eager eye. As soon as he finished, I am prepared, said
Maternus smiling, to exhibit a charge against the professors of
oratory, which may, perhaps, counterbalance the praise so lavishly
bestowed upon them by my friend. In the course of what he said, I
was not surprised to see him going out of his way, to lay poor
poetry prostrate at his feet. He has, indeed, shewn some kindness
to such as are not blessed with oratorical talents. He has passed
an act of indulgence in their favour, and they, it seems, are
allowed to pursue their favourite studies. For my part, I will not
say that I think myself wholly unqualified for the eloquence of the
bar. It may be true, that I have some kind of talent for that
profession; but the tragic muse affords superior pleasure. My first
attempt was in the reign of Nero, in opposition to the extravagant
claims of the prince,
and in defiance of the domineering spirit of Vatinius, that pernicious favourite,
by whose coarse buffoonery the muses were every day disgraced, I
might say, most impiously prophaned. The portion of fame, whatever
it be, that I have acquired since that time, is to be attributed,
not to the speeches which I made in the forum, but to the power of
dramatic composition. I have, therefore, resolved to take my leave
of the bar for ever. The homage of visitors, the train of
attendants, and the multitude of clients, which glitter so much in
the eyes of my friend, have no attraction for me. I regard them as
I do pictures, and busts, and statues of brass; things, which
indeed are in my family, but they came unlooked for, without my
stir, or so much as a wish on my part. In my humble station, I find
that innocence is a better shield than oratory. For the last I
shall have no occasion, unless I find it necessary, on some future
occasion, to exert myself in the just defence of an injured
friend.

XII. But woods, and groves, and solitary places, have not escaped the
satyrical vein of my friend. To me they afford sensations of a pure
delight. It is there I enjoy the pleasures of a poetic imagination;
and among those pleasures it is not the least, that they are
pursued far from the noise and bustle of the world, without a
client to besiege my doors, and not a criminal to distress me with
the tears of affliction. Free from those distractions, the poet
retires to scenes of solitude, where peace and innocence reside. In
those haunts of contemplation, he has his pleasing visions. He
treads on consecrated ground. It was there that Eloquence first
grew up, and there she reared her temple. In those retreats she
first adorned herself with those graces, which have made mankind
enamoured of her charms; and there she filled the hearts of the
wise and good with joy and inspiration. Oracles first spoke in
woods and sacred groves. As to the species of oratory, which
practises for lucre, or with views of ambition; that sanguinary
eloquence now so
much in vogue: it is of modern growth, the offspring of corrupt
manners, and degenerate times; or rather, as my friend Aper
expressed it, it is a weapon in the hands of ill-designing
men.
The early and more happy period of the world, or, as we poets
call it, the golden age, was the æra of true eloquence.
Crimes and orators were then unknown. Poetry spoke in harmonious
numbers, not to varnish evil deeds, but to praise the virtuous, and
celebrate the friends of human kind. This was the poet's office.
The inspired train enjoyed the highest honours; they held commerce
with the gods; they partook of the ambrosial feast: they were at
once the messengers and interpreters of the supreme command. They
ranked on earth with legislators, heroes, and demigods. In that
bright assembly we find no orator, no pleader of causes. We read of
Orpheus, of Linus,
and, if we choose to mount still higher, we can add the name of
Apollo himself. This may seem a flight of fancy. Aper will treat it
as mere romance, and fabulous history: but he will not deny, that
the veneration paid to Homer, with the consent of posterity, is at
least equal to the honours obtained by Demosthenes. He must
likewise admit, that the fame of Sophocles and Euripides is not
confined within narrower limits than that of Lysias or Hyperides. To come home to our
own country, there are at this day more who dispute the excellence
of Cicero than of Virgil. Among the orations of Asinius or Messala, is there one that
can vie with the Medea of Ovid, or the Thyestes of Varius?

XIII. If we now consider the happy condition of the true poet,
and that easy commerce in which he passes his time, need we fear to
compare his situation with that of the boasted orator, who leads a
life of anxiety, oppressed by business, and overwhelmed with care?
But it is said, his contention, his toil and danger, are steps to
the consulship. How much more eligible was the soft retreat in
which Virgil
passed his days, loved by the prince, and honoured by the people!
To prove this the letters of Augustus are still extant; and the
people, we know, hearing in the theatre some verses of that divine
poet, when he
himself was present, rose in a body, and paid him every mark of
homage, with a degree of veneration nothing short of what they
usually offered to the emperor.
Even in our own times, will any man say, that Secundus Pomponius, in point of
dignity or extent of fame, is inferior to Domitius Afer? But Vibius and
Marcellus have been cited as bright examples: and yet, in their
elevation what is there to be coveted? Is it to be deemed an
advantage to those ministers, that they are feared by numbers, and
live in fear themselves? They are courted for their favours, and
the men, who obtain their suit, retire with ingratitude, pleased
with their success, yet hating to be obliged. Can we suppose that
the man is happy, who by his artifices has wriggled himself into
favour, and yet is never thought by his master sufficiently pliant,
nor by the people sufficiently free? And after all, what is the
amount of all his boasted power? The emperor's freedmen have
enjoyed the same. But as Virgil sweetly sings, Me let the sacred
muses lead to their soft retreats, their living fountains, and
melodious groves, where I may dwell remote from care, master of
myself, and under no necessity of doing every day what my heart
condemns. Let me no more be seen at the wrangling bar, a pale and
anxious candidate for precarious fame; and let neither the tumult
of visitors crowding to my levee, nor the eager haste of officious
freedmen, disturb my morning rest. Let me live free from
solicitude, a stranger to the art of promising legacies, in order to buy the
friendship of the great; and when nature shall give the signal to
retire, may I possess no more than may be safely bequeathed to such
friends as I shall think proper. At my funeral let no token of
sorrow be seen, no pompous mockery of woe. Crown me with chaplets; strew flowers
on my grave, and let my friends erect no vain memorial, to tell
where my remains are lodged.

XIV. Maternus finished with an air of enthusiasm, that seemed to
lift him above himself. In that moment, Vipstanius Messala entered the room.
From the attention that appeared in every countenance, he concluded
that some important business was the subject of debate. I am
afraid, said he, that I break in upon you at an unseasonable time.
You have some secret to discuss, or, perhaps, a consultation upon
your hands. Far from it, replied Secundus; I wish you had come
sooner. You would have had the pleasure of hearing an eloquent
discourse from our friend Aper, who has been endeavouring to
persuade Maternus to dedicate all his time to the business of the
bar, and to give the whole man to his profession. The answer of
Maternus would have entertained you: he has been defending his art,
and but this moment closed an animated speech, that held more of
the poetical than the oratorical character.
I should have been happy, replied Messala, to have heard both my
friends. It is, however, some compensation for the loss, that I
find men of their talents, instead of giving all their time to the
little subtleties and knotty points of the forum, extending their
views to liberal science, and those questions of taste, which
enlarge the mind, and furnish it with ideas drawn from the
treasures of polite erudition. Enquiries of this kind afford
improvement not only to those who enter into the discussion, but to
all who have the happiness of being present at the debate. It is in
consequence of this refined and elegant way of thinking, that you,
Secundus, have gained so much applause, by the life of Julius
Asiaticus, with
which you have lately obliged the world. From that specimen, we are
taught to expect other productions of equal beauty from the same
hand. In like manner, I see with pleasure, that our friend Aper
loves to enliven his imagination with topics of controversy, and
still lays out his leisure in questions of the schools, not, indeed, in imitation
of the ancient orators, but in the true taste of our modern
rhetoricians.

XV. I am not surprised, returned Aper, at that stroke of
raillery. It is not enough for Messala, that the oratory of ancient
times engrosses all his admiration; he must have his fling at the
moderns. Our talents and our studies are sure to feel the sallies
of his pleasantry. I
have often heard you, my friend Messala, in the same humour.
According to you, the present age has not a single orator to boast
of, though your own eloquence, and that of your brother, are
sufficient to refute the charge. But you assert roundly, and
maintain your proposition with an air of confidence. You know how
high you stand, and while in your general censure of the age you
include yourself, the smallest tincture of malignity cannot be
supposed to mingle in a decision, which denies to your own genius,
what by common consent is allowed to be your undoubted right.
I have as yet, replied Messala, seen no reason to make me
retract my opinion; nor do I believe, that my two friends here, or
even you yourself (though you sometimes affect a different tone),
can seriously maintain the opposite doctrine. The decline of
eloquence is too apparent. The causes which have contributed to it,
merit a serious enquiry. I shall be obliged to you, my friends, for
a fair solution of the question. I have often reflected upon the
subject; but what seems to others a full answer, with me serves
only to increase the difficulty. What has happened at Rome, I
perceive to have been the case in Greece. The modern orators of
that country, such as the priest Nicetes, and others who, like him, stun the schools
of Mytelene and Ephesus, are fallen to a greater distance from
Æschines and Demosthenes, than Afer and Africanus, or you, my friends, from
Tully or Asinius Pollio.

XVI. You have started an important question, said Secundus, and
who so able to discuss it as yourself? Your talents are equal to
the difficulty; your acquisitions in literature are known to be
extensive, and you have considered the subject. I have no
objection, replied Messala: my ideas are at your service, upon
condition that, as I go on, you will assist me with the lights of
your understanding. For two of us I can venture to answer, said
Maternus: whatever you omit, or rather, what you leave for us to
glean after you, we shall be ready to add to your observations. As
to our friend Aper, you have told us, that he is apt to differ from
you upon this point, and even now I see him preparing to give
battle. He will not tamely bear to see us joined in a league in
favour of antiquity.
Certainly not, replied Aper, nor shall the present age, unheard
and undefended, be degraded by a conspiracy. But before you sound
to arms, I wish to know, who are to be reckoned among the ancients?
At what point of time do you fix your favourite æra? When you talk
to me of antiquity, I carry my view to the first ages of the world,
and see before me Ulysses and Nestor, who flourished little less
than thirteen
hundred years ago. Your retrospect, it seems, goes no farther back
than to Demosthenes and Hyperides; men who lived in the times of
Philip and Alexander, and indeed survived them both. The interval,
between Demosthenes and the present age, is little more than four hundred
years; a space of time, which, with a view to the duration of human
life, may be called long; but, as a portion of that immense tract
of time which includes the different ages of the world, it shrinks
into nothing, and seems to be but yesterday. For if it be true, as
Cicero says in his treatise called Hortensius, that the great and
genuine year is that period in which the heavenly bodies revolve to
the station from which their source began; and if this grand
rotation of the whole planetary system requires no less than twelve
thousand nine hundred and fifty-four years of our computation, it follows that
Demosthenes, your boasted ancient, becomes a modern, and even our
contemporary; nay, that he lived in the same year with ourselves; I
had almost said, in the same month.

XVII. But I am in haste to pass to our Roman orators. Menenius
Agrippa may
fairly be deemed an ancient. I take it, however, that he is not the
person, whom you mean to oppose to the professors of modern
eloquence. The æra, which you have in view, is that of Cicero and
Cæsar; of Cælius and Calvus; of Brutus, Asinius, and Messala. Those are the
men, whom you place in the front of hour line; but for what reason
they are to be classed with the ancients, and not, as I think they
ought to be, with the moderns, I am still to learn. To begin with
Cicero; he, according to the account of Tiro, his freedman, was put
to death on the seventh of the ides of December, during the
consulship of Hirtius and Pansa, who, we know, were both cut off in the course of
the year, and left their office vacant for Augustus and Quintus
Pedius. Count from that time six and fifty years to complete the
reign of Augustus; three and twenty for that of Tiberius, four for
Caligula, eight and twenty for Claudius and Nero, one for Galba,
Otho, and Vitellius, and finally six from the accession of
Vespasian to the present year of our felicity, we shall have from
the death of Cicero a period of about one hundred and twenty years, which
may be considered as the term allotted to the life of man. I myself
remember to have seen in Britain a soldier far advanced in years,
who averred that he carried arms in that very battle in which his countrymen
sought to drive Julius Cæsar back from their coast. If this
veteran, who served in the defence of his country against
Cæsar's invasion, had been brought a prisoner to Rome; or, if
his own inclination, or any other accident in the course of things,
had conducted him thither, he might have heard, not only
Cæsar and Cicero, but even ourselves in some of our public
speeches.
In the late public largess you will acknowledge that you saw several old men,
who assured us that they had received more than once, the like
distribution from Augustus himself. If that be so, might not those
persons have heard Corvinus and Asinius? Corvinus, we all know, lived through
half the reign of Augustus, and Asinius almost to the end. How then
are we to ascertain the just boundaries of a century? They are not
to be varied at pleasure, so as to place some orators in a remote,
and others in a recent period, while people are still living, who
heard them all, and may, therefore, with good reason rank them as
contemporaries.

XVIII. From what I have said, I assume it as a clear position,
that the glory, whatever it be, that accrued to the age in which
those orators lived, is not confined to that particular period, but
reaches down to the present time, and may more properly be said to
belong to us, than to Servius Galba, or to Carbo, and others of the same or
more ancient date. Of that whole race of orators, I may freely say,
that their manner cannot now be relished. Their language is coarse,
and their composition rough, uncouth, and harsh; and yet your
Calvus, your
Cælius, and even your favourite Cicero, condescend to follow
that inelegant style. It were to be wished that they had not
thought such models worthy of imitation. I mean to speak my mind
with freedom; but before I proceed, it will be necessary to make a
preliminary observation, and it is this: Eloquence has no settled
form: at different times it puts on a new garb, and changes with
the manners and the taste of the age. Thus we find, that Gracchus, compared
with the elder Cato, is full and copious; but, in his turn, yields to
Crassus, an
orator more polished, more correct, and florid. Cicero rises
superior to both; more animated, more harmonious and sublime. He is
followed by Corvinus, who has all the softer graces; a sweet
flexibility in his style, and a curious felicity in the choice of
his words. Which was the greatest orator, is not the question.
The use I make of these examples, is to prove that eloquence
does not always wear the same dress, but, even among your
celebrated ancients, has its different modes of persuasion. And be
it remembered, that what differs is not always the worst. Yet such
is the malignity of the human mind, that what has the sanction of
antiquity is always admired; what is present, is sure to be
condemned. Can we doubt that there have been critics, who were
better pleased with Appius Cæcus than with Cato? Cicero had his
adversaries:
it was objected to him, that his style was redundant, turgid, never
compressed, void of precision, and destitute of Attic elegance. We
all have read the letters of Calvus and Brutus to your famous
orator. In the course of that correspondence, we plainly see what
was Cicero's opinion of those eminent men. The former appeared to him cold
and languid; the latter, disjointed, loose, and negligent. On the other
hand, we know what they thought in return: Calvus did not hesitate
to say, that Cicero was diffuse luxuriant to a fault, and florid
without vigour. Brutus, in express terms, says, he was weakened
into length, and wanted sinew. If you ask my opinion, each of them
had reason on his side. I shall hereafter examine them separately.
My business at present, is not in the detail: I speak of them in
general terms.

XIX. The æra of ancient oratory is, I think, extended by
its admirers no farther back than the time of Cassius Severus. He, they tell us,
was the first who dared to deviate from the plain and simple style
of his predecessors. I admit the fact. He departed from the
established forms, not through want of genius, or of learning, but
guided by his own good sense and superior judgement. He saw that
the public ear was formed to a new manner; and eloquence, he knew,
was to find new approaches to the heart. In the early periods of
the commonwealth, a rough unpolished people might well be satisfied
with the tedious length of unskilful speeches, at a time when to
make an harangue that took up the whole day, was the orator's
highest praise. The prolix exordium, wasting itself in feeble
preparation; the circumstantial narration, the ostentatious
division of the argument under different heads, and the thousand
proofs and logical distinctions, with whatever else is contained in
the dry precepts of Hermagoras and Apollodorus, were in that rude period received
with universal applause. To finish the picture, if your ancient
orator could glean a little from the common places of philosophy,
and interweave a few shreds and patches with the thread of his
discourse, he was extolled to the very skies. Nor can this be
matter of wonder: the maxims of the schools had not been divulged;
they came with an air of novelty. Even among the orators
themselves, there were but few who had any tincture of philosophy.
Nor had they learned the rules of art from the teachers of
eloquence.
In the present age, the tenets of philosophy and the precepts of
rhetoric are no longer a secret. The lowest of our popular
assemblies are now, I will not say fully instructed, but certainly
acquainted with the elements of literature. The orator, by
consequence, finds himself obliged to seek new avenues to the
heart, and new graces to embellish his discourse, that he may not
offend fastidious ears, especially before a tribunal where the
judge is no longer bound by precedent, but determines according to
his will and pleasure; not, as formerly, observing the measure of
time allowed to the advocate, but taking upon himself to prescribe
the limits. Nor is this all: the judge, at present, will not
condescend to wait till the orator, in his own way, opens his case;
but, of his own authority, reminds him of the point in question,
and, if he wanders, calls him back from his digression, not without
a hint that the court wishes to dispatch.

XX. Who, at this time, would bear to hear an advocate
introducing himself with a tedious preface about the infirmities of
his constitution? Yet that is the threadbare exordium of Corvinus.
We have five books against Verres. Who can endure that vast redundance? Who can listen
to those endless arguments upon points of form, and cavilling
exceptions, which we
find in the orations of the same celebrated advocate for Marcus
Tullius and Aulus
Cæcina? Our modern judges are able to anticipate the
argument. Their quickness goes before the speaker. If not struck
with the vivacity of his manner, the elegance of his sentiments,
and the glowing colours of his descriptions, they soon grow weary
of the flat insipid discourse. Even in the lowest class of life,
there is now a relish for rich and splendid ornament. Their taste
requires the gay, the florid, and the brilliant. The unpolished
style of antiquity would now succeed as ill at the bar, as the
modern actor who should attempt to copy the deportment of Roscius, or Ambivius Turpio.
Even the young men who are preparing for the career of eloquence,
and, for that purpose, attend the forum and the tribunals of
justice, have now a nice discriminating taste. They expect to have
their imaginations pleased. They wish to carry home some bright
illustration, some splendid passage, that deserves to be
remembered. What has struck their fancy, they communicate to each
other: and in their letters, the glittering thought, given with
sententious brevity, the poetical allusion that enlivened the
discourse, and the dazzling imagery, are sure to be transmitted to
their respective colonies and provinces. The ornaments of poetic
diction are now required, not, indeed, copied from the rude
obsolete style of Accius and Pacuvius, but embellished with the graces of
Horace, Virgil, and
Lucan. The public judgement has raised a demand for harmonious
periods, and, in compliance with the taste of the age, our orators
grow every day more polished and adorned. Let it not be said that
what we gain in refinement, we lose in strength. Are the temples,
raised by our modern architects, of a weaker structure, because
they are not formed with shapeless stones, but with the
magnificence of polished marble, and decorations of the richest
gilding?

XXI. Shall I fairly own to you the impression which I generally
receive from the ancient orators? They make me laugh, or lull me to
sleep. Nor is this the case only, when I read the orations of
Canutus, Arrius,
Furnius, Toranius and others of the same school, or rather, the
same infirmary; an
emaciated sickly race of orators; without sinew, colour, or
proportion. But what shall be said of your admired Calvus? He, I think, has left no
less than one and twenty volumes: in the whole collection, there is
not more than one or two short orations, that can pretend to
perfection in the kind. Upon this point there is no difference of
opinion. Who now reads his declamations against Asitius or Drusus?
His speeches against Vatinius are in the hands of the curious,
particularly the second, which must be allowed to be a masterpiece.
The language is elegant; the sentiments are striking, and the ear
is satisfied with the roundness of the periods. In this specimen we
see that he had an idea of just composition, but his genius was not
equal to his judgement. The orations of Cælius, though upon
the whole defective, are not without their beauties. Some passages
are highly finished. In those we acknowledge, the nice touches of
modern elegance. In general, however, the coarse expression, the
halting period, and the vulgarity of the sentiments, have too much
of the leaven of antiquity.
If Cælius
is still admired, it is not, I believe, in any of those parts that
bear the mark of a rude illiterate age. With regard to Julius
Cæsar,
engaged as he was in projects of vast ambition, we may forgive him
the want of that perfection which might, otherwise, be expected
from so sublime a genius. Brutus, in like manner, may be excused on
account of his philosophical speculations. Both he and Cæsar,
in their oratorical attempts, fell short of themselves. Their
warmest admirers acknowledge the fact, nor is there an instance to
the contrary, unless we except Cæsar's speech for Decius the
Samnite, and that
of Brutus for king
Dejotarus. But are those performances, and some others of the same
lukewarm temper, to be received as works of genius? He who admires
those productions, may be left to admire their verses also. For
verses they both made, and sent them into the world, I will not
say, with more success than Cicero, but certainly more to their
advantage; for their poetry had the good fortune to be little
known.
Asinius lived near our own times. He, seems to have studied in the old school of
Menenius and Appius. He composed tragedies as well as orations, but
in a style so harsh and ragged, that one would think him the
disciple of Accius and Pacuvius. He mistook the nature of
eloquence, which may then be said to have attained its true beauty,
when the parts unite with smoothness, strength, and proportion. As
in the human body the veins should not swell too high, nor the
bones and sinews appear too prominent; but its form is then most
graceful, when a pure and temperate blood gives animation to the whole frame; when
the muscles have their proper play, and the colour of health is
diffused over the several parts. I am not willing to disturb the
memory of Corvinus Messala. If he did not reach the graces of modern
composition, the defect does not seem to have sprung from choice.
The vigour of his genius was not equal to his judgement.

XXII. I now proceed to Cicero, who, we find, had often upon his
hands the very controversy, that engages us at present. It was the
fashion with his contemporaries to admire the ancients, while he,
on the contrary, contended for the eloquence of his own time. Were
I to mention the quality that placed him at the head of his rivals
I should say it was the solidity of his judgement. It was he that
first shewed a taste for polished and graceful oratory. He was
happy in his choice of words, and he had the art of giving weight
and harmony to his composition. We find in many passages a warm
imagination, and luminous sentences. In his later speeches, he has
lively sallies of wit and fancy. Experience had then matured his
judgement, and after long practice, he found the true oratorical
style. In his earlier productions we see the rough cast of
antiquity. The exordium is tedious; the narration is drawn into
length; luxuriant passages are not retouched with care; he is not
easily affected, and he rarely takes fire; his sentiments are not
always happily expressed, nor are the periods closed with energy. There is
nothing so highly finished, as to tempt you to avail yourself of a
borrowed beauty. In short, his speeches are like a rude building,
which is strong and durable, but wants that grace and consonance of
parts which give symmetry and perfection to the whole.
In oratory, as in architecture, I require ornament as well as
use. From the man of ample fortune, who undertakes to build, we
expect elegance and proportion. It is not enough that his house
will keep out the wind and the rain; it must strike the eye, and
present a pleasing object. Nor will it suffice that the furniture
may answer all domestic purposes; it should be rich, fashionable,
elegant; it should have gold and gems so curiously wrought, that
they will bear examination, often viewed, and always admired. The
common utensils, which are either mean or sordid, should be
carefully removed out of sight. In like manner, the true orator
should avoid the trite and vulgar. Let him reject the antiquated
phrase, and whatever is covered with the rust of time; let his
sentiments be expressed with spirit, not in careless,
ill-constructed, languid periods, like a dull writer of annals; let
him banish low scurrility, and, in short, let him know how to
diversify his style, that he may not fatigue the ear with a
monotony, ending for ever with the same unvaried cadence.

XXIII. I shall say nothing of the false wit, and insipid play
upon words, which we find in Cicero's orations. His pleasant
conceits about the wheel of fortune, and the arch raillery on the
equivocal meaning of the word VERRES, do not merit a moment's attention.
I omit the perpetual recurrence of the phrase, esse videatur, which
chimes in our ears at the close of so many sentences, sounding big,
but signifying nothing. These are petty blemishes; I mention them
with reluctance. I say nothing of other defects equally improper:
and yet those very defects are the delight of such as affect to
call themselves ancient orators. I need not single them out by
name: the men are sufficiently known; it is enough to allude, in
general terms, to the whole class.
We all are sensible that there is a set of critics now existing,
who prefer Lucilius to Horace, and Lucretius to Virgil; who despise the
eloquence of Aufidius Bassus and Servilius Nonianus, and yet admire Varro and Sisenna. By
these pretenders to taste, the works of our modern rhetoricians are
thrown by with neglect, and even fastidious disdain; while those of
Calvus are held in the highest esteem. We see these men prosing in
their ancient style before the judges; but we see them left without
an audience, deserted by the people, and hardly endured by their
clients. The truth is, their cold and spiritless manner has no
attraction. They call it sound oratory, but it is want of vigour;
like that precarious state of health which weak constitutions
preserve by abstinence. What physician will pronounce that a strong
habit of body, which requires constant care and anxiety of mind? To
say barely, that we are not ill, is surely not enough. True health
consists in vigour, a generous warmth, and a certain alacrity in
the whole frame. He who is only not indisposed, is little distant
from actual illness.
With you, my friends, the case is different: proceed, as you
well can, and in fact, as you do, to adorn our age with all the
grace and splendour of true oratory. It is with pleasure, Messala,
that I see you selecting for imitation the liveliest models of the
ancient school. You too, Maternus, and you, my friend, Secundus, you both
possess the happy art of adding to weight of sentiment all the
dignity of language. To a copious invention you unite the judgement
that knows how to distinguish the specific qualities of different
authors. The beauty of order is yours. When the occasion demands
it, you can expand and amplify with strength and majesty; and you
know when to be concise with energy. Your periods flow with ease,
and your composition has every grace of style and sentiment. You
command the passions with resistless sway, while in yourselves you
beget a temperance so truly dignified, that, though, perhaps, envy
and the malignity of the times may be unwilling to proclaim your
merit, posterity will do you ample justice.

XXIV. As soon as Aper concluded, You see, said Maternus, the
zeal and ardour of our friend: in the cause of the moderns, what a
torrent of eloquence! against the ancients, what a fund of
invective! With great spirit, and a vast compass of learning, he
has employed against his masters the arts for which he is indebted
to them. And yet all this vehemence must not deter you, Messala,
from the performance of your promise. A formal defence of the
ancients is by no means necessary. We do not presume to vie with
that illustrious race. We have been praised by Aper, but we know
our inferiority. He himself is aware of it, though, in imitation of
the ancient manner, he has thought proper, for the sake of a
philosophical debate, to take the wrong side of the question. In
answer to his argument, we do not desire you to expatiate in praise
of the ancients: their fame wants no addition. What we request is,
an investigation of the causes which have produced so rapid a
decline from the flourishing state of genuine eloquence. I call it
rapid, since, according to Aper's own chronology, the period from
the death of Cicero does not exceed one hundred and twenty years.

XXV. I am willing, said Messala, to pursue the plan which you
have recommended. The question, whether the men who flourished
above one hundred years ago, are to be accounted ancients, has been
started by my friend Aper, and, I believe, it is of the first
impression. But it is a mere dispute about words. The discussion of
it is of no moment, provided it be granted, whether we call them
ancients, or our predecessors, or give them any other appellation,
that the eloquence of those times was superior to that of the
present age. When Aper tells us, that different periods of time
have produced new modes of oratory, I see nothing to object; nor
shall I deny, that in one and the same period the style and manners
have greatly varied. But this I assume, that among the orators of
Greece, Demosthenes holds the first rank, and after him Æschynes, Hyperides,
Lysias, and Lycurgus, in regular succession. That age, by common
consent, is allowed to be the flourishing period of Attic
eloquence.
In like manner, Cicero stands at the head of our Roman orators,
while Calvus, Asinius, and Cæsar, Cælius and Brutus,
follow him at a distance; all of them superior, not only to every
former age, but to the whole race that came after them. Nor is it
material that they differ in the mode, since they all agree in the
kind. Calvus is close and nervous; Asinius more open and
harmonious; Cæsar is distinguished by the splendour of his diction;
Cælius by a caustic severity; and gravity is the
characteristic of Brutus. Cicero is more luxuriant in
amplification, and he has strength and vehemence. They all,
however, agree in this: their eloquence is manly, sound, and
vigorous. Examine their works, and you will see the energy of
congenial minds, a family-likeness in their genius, however it may
take a distinct colour from the specific qualities of the men.
True, they detracted from each other's merit. In their letters,
which are still extant, we find some strokes of mutual hostility.
But this littleness does not impeach their eloquence: their
jealousy was the infirmity of human nature. Calvus, Asinius, and
Cicero, might have their fits of animosity, and, no doubt, were
liable to envy, malice, and other degrading passions: they were
great orators, but they were men.
Brutus is the only one of the set, who may be thought superior
to petty contentions. He spoke his mind with freedom, and, I
believe, without a tincture of malice. He did not envy Cæsar
himself, and can it be imagined that he envied Cicero? As to Galba, Lælius, and
others of a remote period, against whom we have heard Aper's
declamation, I need not undertake their defence, since I am willing
to acknowledge, that in their style and manner we perceive those
defects and blemishes which it is natural to expect, while art, as
yet in its infancy, has made no advances towards perfection.

XXVI. After all, if the best form of eloquence must be
abandoned, and some, new-fangled style must grow into fashion, give
me the rapidity of Gracchus, or the more solemn manner of Crassus, with all their
imperfections, rather than the effeminate delicacy of Mæcenas, or the
tinkling cymbal
of Gallio. The most homely dress is preferable to gawdy colours and
meretricious ornaments. The style in vogue at present, is an
innovation, against every thing just and natural; it is not even
manly. The luxuriant phrase, the inanity of tuneful periods, and
the wanton levity of the whole composition, are fit for nothing but
the histrionic art, as if they were written for the stage. To the
disgrace of the age (however astonishing it may appear), it is the
boast, the pride, the glory of our present orators, that their
periods are musical enough either for the dancer's heel, or the warbler's
throat. Hence it is, that by a frequent, but preposterous,
metaphor, the orator is said to speak in melodious cadence, and the
dancer to move with expression. In this view of things, even Cassius Severus
(the only modern whom Aper has ventured to name), if we compare him
with the race that followed, may be fairly pronounced a legitimate
orator, though it must be acknowledged, that in what remains of his
compositing, he is clumsy without strength, and violent without
spirit. He was the first that deviated from the great masters of
his art. He despised all method and regular arrangement; indelicate
in his choice of words, he paid no regard to decency; eager to
attack, he left himself unguarded; he brandished his weapons
without skill or address; and, to speak plainly, he wrangled, but
did not argue. And yet, notwithstanding these defects, he was, as I
have already said, superior to all that came after him, whether we
regard the variety of his learning, the urbanity of his wit, or the
vigour of his mind. I expected that Aper, after naming this orator,
would have drawn up the rest of his forces in regular order. He has
fallen, indeed, upon Asinius, Cælius, and Calvus; but where
are his champions to enter the lists with them? I imagined that he
had a phalanx in reserve, and that we should have seen them man by
man giving battle to Cicero, Cæsar, and the rest in
succession. He has singled out some of the ancients, but has
brought none of his moderns into the field. He thought it enough to
give them a good character in their absence. In this, perhaps, he
acted with prudence: he was afraid, if he selected a few, that the
rest of the tribe would take offence. For among the rhetoricians of
the present day, is there one to be found, who does not, in his own
opinion, tower above Cicero, though he has the modesty to yield to
Gabinianus?

XXVII. What Aper has omitted, I intend to perform. I shall
produce his moderns by name, to the end that, by placing the
example before our eyes, we may be able, more distinctly, to trace
the steps by which the vigour of ancient eloquence has fallen to
decay. Maternus interrupted him. I wish, he said, that you would
come at once to the point: we claim your promise. The superiority
of the ancients is not in question. We want no proof of it. Upon
that point my opinion is decided. But the causes of our rapid
decline from ancient excellence remain to be unfolded. We know that
you have turned your thoughts to this subject, and we expected from
you a calm disquisition, had not the violent attack which Aper made
upon your favourite orators, roused your spirit, and, perhaps,
given you some offence. Far from it, replied Messala; he has given
me no offence; nor must you, my friends, take umbrage, if at any
time a word should fall from me, not quite agreeable to your way of
thinking. We are engaged in a free enquiry, and you know, that, in
this kind of debate, the established law allows every man to speak
his mind without reserve. That is the law, replied Maternus; you
may proceed in perfect security. When you speak of the ancients,
speak of them with ancient freedom, which, I fear, is at a lower
ebb than even the genius of those eminent men.

XXVIII. Messala resumed his discourse: The causes of the decay
of eloquence are by no means difficult to be traced. They are, I
believe, well known to you, Maternus, and also to Secundus, not
excepting my friend Aper. It seems, however, that I am now, at your
request, to unravel the business. But there is no mystery in it. We
know that eloquence, with the rest of the polite arts, has lost its
former lustre: and yet, it is not a dearth of men, or a decay of
talents, that has produced this fatal effect. The true causes are,
the dissipation of our young men, the inattention of parents, the
ignorance of those who pretend to give instruction, and the total
neglect of ancient discipline. The mischief began at Rome, it has
over-run all Italy, and is now, with rapid strides, spreading
through the provinces. The effects, however, are more visible at
home, and therefore I shall confine myself to the reigning vices of
the capital; vices that wither every virtue in the bud, and
continue their baleful influence through every season of life.
But before I enter on the subject, it will not be useless to
look back to the system of education that prevailed in former
times, and to the strict discipline of our ancestors, in a point of
so much moment as the formation of youth. In the times to which I
now refer, the son of every family was the legitimate offspring of
a virtuous mother. The infant, as soon as born, was not consigned
to the mean dwelling of a hireling nurse, but was reared and cherished in
the bosom of a tender parent. To regulate all household affairs,
and attend to her infant race, was, at that time, the glory of the
female character. A matron, related to the family, and
distinguished by the purity of her life, was chosen to watch the
progress of the tender mind. In her presence not one indecent word
was uttered; nothing was done against propriety and good manners.
The hours of study and serious employment were settled by her
direction; and not only so, but even the diversions of the children
were conducted with modest reserve and sanctity of manners. Thus it
was that Cornelia, the mother of the Gracchi, superintended the
education of her illustrious issue. It was thus that Aurelia trained
up Julius Cæsar; and thus Atia formed the mind of Augustus. The
consequence of this regular discipline was, that the young mind
grew up in innocence, unstained by vice, unwarped by irregular
passions, and, under that culture, received the seeds of science.
Whatever was the peculiar bias, whether to the military art, the
study of the laws, or the profession of eloquence, that engrossed
the whole attention, and the youth, thus directed, embraced the
entire compass of one favourite science.

XXIX. In the present age, what is our practice? The infant is
committed to a Greek chambermaid, and a slave or two, chosen for
the purpose, generally the worst of the whole household train; all
utter strangers to every liberal notion. In that worshipful society the youth grows
up, imbibing folly and vulgar error. Throughout the house, not one
servant cares what he says or does in the presence of his young master: and indeed
how should it be otherwise? The parents themselves are the first to
give their children the worst examples of vice and luxury. The
stripling consequently loses all sense of shame, and soon forgets
the respect he owes to others as well as to himself. A passion for
horses, players, and gladiators, seems to be the epidemic folly of the times. The
child receives it in his mother's womb; he brings it with him into
the world; and in a mind so possessed, what room for science, or
any generous purpose?
In our houses, at our tables, sports and interludes are the
topics of conversation. Enter the places of academical lectures,
and who talks of any other subject? The preceptors themselves have
caught the contagion. Nor can this be wondered at. To establish a
strict and regular discipline, and to succeed by giving proofs of
their genius, is not the plan of our modern rhetoricians. They pay
their court to the great, and, by servile adulation, increase the
number of their pupils. Need I mention the manner of conveying the
first elements of school learning? No care is taken to give the
student a taste for the best authors; the page of history lies neglected;
the study of men and manners is no part of their system; and every
branch of useful knowledge is left uncultivated. A preceptor is
called in, and education is then thought to be in a fair way. But I
shall have occasion hereafter to speak more fully of that class of
men, called rhetoricians. It will then be seen, at what period that
profession first made its appearance at Rome, and what reception it
met with from our ancestors.

XXX. Before I proceed, let us advert for a moment to the plan of
ancient discipline. The unwearied diligence of the ancient orators,
their habits of meditation, and their daily exercise in the whole
circle of arts and sciences, are amply displayed in the books which
they have transmitted to us. The treatise of Cicero, entitled
Brutus, is in all
our hands. In that work, after commemorating the orators of a
former day, he closes the account with the particulars of his own
progress in science, and the method he took in educating himself to
the profession of oratory. He studied the civil law under Mucius Scævola; he
was instructed in the various systems of philosophy, by Philo of the academic
school, and by Diodorus the stoic; and though Rome, at that time,
abounded with the best professors, he made a voyage to Greece, and thence to
Asia, in order to enrich his mind with every branch of learning.
Hence that store of knowledge which appears in all his writings.
Geometry, music, grammar, and every useful art, were familiar to
him. He embraced the whole science of logic and ethics. He studied the operations
of nature. His diligence of enquiry opened to him the long chain of
causes and effects, and, in short, the whole system of physiology
was his own. From a mind thus replenished, it is no wonder, my good
friends, that we see in the compositions of that extraordinary man
that affluence of ideas, and that prodigious flow of eloquence. In
fact, it is not with oratory as with the other arts, which are
confined to certain objects, and circumscribed within their own
peculiar limits. He alone deserves the name of an orator, who can
speak in a copious style, with ease or dignity, as the subject
requires; who can find language to decorate his argument; who
through the passions can command the understanding; and, while he
serves mankind, knows how to delight the judgement and the
imagination of his audience.

XXXI. Such was, in ancient times, the idea of an orator. To form
that illustrious character, it was not thought necessary to declaim
in the schools of rhetoricians, or to make a vain parade in fictitious
controversies, which were not only void of all reality, but even of
a shadow of probability. Our ancestors pursued a different plan:
they stored their minds with just ideas of moral good and evil;
with the rules of right and wrong, and the fair and foul in human
transactions. These, on every controverted point, are the orator's
province. In courts of law, just and unjust undergo his discussion;
in political debate, between what is expedient and honourable, it
is his to draw the line; and those questions are so blended in
their nature, that they enter into every cause. On such important
topics, who can hope to bring variety of matter, and to dignify
that matter with style and sentiment, if he has not, beforehand,
enlarged his mind with the knowledge of human nature? with the laws
of moral obligation? the deformity of vice, the beauty of virtue,
and other points which do not immediately belong to the theory of
ethics?
The orator, who has enriched his mind with these materials, may
be truly said to have acquired the powers of persuasion. He who
knows the nature of indignation, will be able to kindle or allay
that passion in the breast of the judge; and the advocate who has
considered the effect of compassion, and from what secret springs
it flows, will best know how to soften the mind, and melt it into
tenderness. It is by these secrets of his art that the orator gains
his influence. Whether he has to do with the prejudiced, the angry,
the envious, the melancholy, or the timid, he can bridle their
various passions, and hold the reins in his own hand. According to
the disposition of his audience, he will know when to check the
workings of the heart, and when to raise them to their full tumult
of emotion.
Some critics are chiefly pleased with that close mode of
oratory, which in a laconic manner states the facts, and forms an
immediate conclusion: in that case, it is obvious how necessary it
is to be a complete master of the rules of logic. Others delight in
a more open, free, and copious style, where the arguments are drawn
from topics of general knowledge; for this purpose, the peripatetic
school will
supply the orator with ample materials. The academic philosopher will inspire
him with warmth and energy; Plato will give the sublime, and
Xenophon that equal flow which charms us in that amiable writer.
The rhetorical figure, which is called exclamation, so frequent
with Epicurus
and Metrodorus, will add to a discourse those sudden breaks of
passion, which give motion, strength, and vehemence.
It is not for the stoic school, nor for their imaginary wise
man, that I am laying down rules. I am forming an orator, whose
business it is, not to adhere to one sect, but to go the round of
all the arts and sciences. Accordingly we find, that the great
master of ancient eloquence laid their foundation in a thorough
study of the civil law, and to that fund they added grammar, music,
and geometry. The fact is, in most of the causes that occur,
perhaps in every cause, a due knowledge of the whole system of
jurisprudence is an indispensable requisite. There are likewise
many subjects of litigation, in which an acquaintance with other
sciences is of the highest use.

XXXII. Am I to be told, that to gain some slight information on
particular subjects, as occasion may require, will sufficiently
answer the purposes of an orator? In answer to this, let it be
observed, that the application of what we draw from our own fund,
is very different from the use we make of what we borrow. Whether
we speak from digested knowledge, or the mere suggestion of others,
the effect is soon perceived. Add to this, that conflux of ideas
with which the different sciences enrich the mind, gives an air of
dignity to whatever we say, even in cases where that depth of
knowledge is not required. Science adorns the speaker at all times,
and, where it is least expected, confers a grace that charms every
hearer; the man of erudition feels it, and the unlettered part of
the audience acknowledge the effect without knowing the cause. A
murmur of applause ensues; the speaker is allowed to have laid in a
store of knowledge; he possesses all the powers of persuasion, and
then is called an orator indeed.
I take the liberty to add, if we aspire to that honourable
appellation, that there is no way but that which I have chalked
out. No man was ever yet a complete orator, and, I affirm, never
can be, unless, like the soldier marching to the field of battle,
he enters the forum armed at all points with the sciences and the
liberal arts. Is that the case in these our modern times? The style
which we hear every day, abounds with colloquial barbarisms, and
vulgar phraseology: no knowledge of the laws is heard; our
municipal policy is wholly neglected, and even the decrees of the
senate are treated with contempt and derision. Moral philosophy is
discarded, and the maxims of ancient wisdom are unworthy of their
notice. In this manner, eloquence is dethroned; she is banished
from her rightful dominions, and obliged to dwell in the cold
regions of antithesis, forced conceit, and pointed sentences. The
consequence is, that she, who was once the sovereign mistress of
the sciences, and led them as handmaids in her train, is now
deprived of her attendants, reduced, impoverished, and, stripped of
her usual honours (I might say of her genius), compelled to
exercise a mere plebeian art.
And now, my friends, I think I have laid open the efficient
cause of the decline of eloquence. Need I call witnesses to support
my opinion? I name Demosthenes among the Greeks. He, we are
assured, constantly attended the lectures of Plato. I name Cicero among the
Romans: he tells us (I believe I can repeat his words), that if he
attained any degree of excellence, he owed it, not so much to the
precepts of rhetoricians, as to his meditations in the walks of the
academic school. I am aware that other causes of our present
degeneracy may be added; but that task I leave to my friends, since
I now may flatter myself that I have performed my promise. In doing
it, I fear, that, as often happens to me, I have incurred the
danger of giving offence. Were a certain class of men to hear the
principles which I have advanced in favour of legal knowledge and
sound philosophy, I should expect to be told that I have been all
the time commending my own visionary schemes.

XXXIII. You will excuse me, replied Maternus, if I take the
liberty to say that you have by no means finished your part of our
enquiry. You seem to have spread your canvas, and to have touched
the outlines of your plan; but there are other parts that still
require the colouring of so masterly a hand. The stores of
knowledge, with which the ancients enlarged their minds, you have
fairly explained, and, in contrast to that pleasing picture, you
have given us a true draught of modern ignorance. But we now wish
to know, what were the exercises, and what the discipline, by which
the youth of former times prepared themselves for the honours of
their profession. It will not, I believe, be contended, that
theory, and systems of art, are of themselves sufficient to form a
genuine orator. It is by practice, and by constant exertion, that
the faculty of speech improves, till the genius of the man expands,
and flourishes in its full vigour. This, I think, you will not
deny, and my two friends, if I may judge by their looks, seem to
give their assent. Aper and Secundus agreed without hesitation.
Messala proceeded as follows: Having, as I conceive, shewn the
seed-plots of ancient eloquence, and the fountains of science, from
which they drew such copious streams; it remains now to give some
idea of the labour, the assiduity, and the exercises, by which they
trained themselves to their profession. I need not observe, that in
the pursuit of science, method and constant exercise are
indispensable: for who can hope, without regular attention, to
master abstract schemes of philosophy, and embrace the whole
compass of the sciences? Knowledge must be grafted in the mind by
frequent meditation; to that must be added the faculty of conveying
our ideas; and, to make sure of our impression, we must be able to
adorn our thoughts with the colours of true eloquence. Hence it is
evident that the same arts, by which the mind lays in its stock of
knowledge, must be still pursued, in order to attain a clear and
graceful manner of conveying that knowledge to others. This may be
thought refined and too abstruse. If, however, we are still to be
told that science and elocution are things in themselves distinct
and unrelated; this, at least, may be assumed, that he, who, with a
fund of previous knowledge, undertakes the province of oratory,
will bring with him a mind well seasoned, and duly prepared for the
study and exercise of real eloquence.

XXXIV. The practice of our ancestors was agreeable to this
theory. The youth, who was intended for public declamation, went
forth, under the care of his father, or some near relation, with
all the advantages of home-discipline; his mind was expanded by the
fine arts, and impregnated with science. He was conducted to the
most eminent orator of the time. Under that illustrious patronage
he visited the forum; he attended his patron upon all occasions; he
listened with attention to his pleadings in the tribunals of
justice, and his public harangues before the people; he heard him
in the warmth of argument; he noted his sudden replies, and thus,
in the field of battle, if I may so express myself, he learned the
first rudiments of rhetorical warfare. The advantages of this
method are obvious: the young candidate gained courage, and
improved his judgement; he studied in open day, amidst the heat of
the conflict, where nothing weak or idle could be said with
impunity; where every thing absurd was instantly rebuked by the
judge, exposed to ridicule by the adversary, and condemned by the
whole bar.
In this manner the student was initiated in the rules of sound
and manly eloquence; and, though it be true, that he placed himself
under the auspices of one orator only, he heard the rest in their
turn, and in that diversity of tastes which always prevails in
mixed assemblies, he was enabled to distinguish what was excellent
or defective in the kind. The orator in actual business was the
best preceptor: the instructions which he gave, were living
eloquence, the substance, and not the shadow. He was himself a real
combatant, engaged with a zealous antagonist, both in earnest, and
not like gladiators, in a mock contest, fighting for prizes. It was
a struggle for victory, before an audience always changing, yet
always full; where the speaker had his enemies as well as his
admirers; and between both, what was brilliant met with applause;
what was defective, was sure to be condemned. In this clash of
opinions, the genuine orator flourished, and acquired that lasting
fame, which, we all know, does not depend on the voice of friends
only, but must rebound from the benches filled with your enemies.
Extorted applause is the best suffrage.
In that school, the youth of expectation, such as I have
delineated, was reared and educated by the most eminent genius of
the times. In the forum, he was enlightened by the experience of
others; he was instructed in the knowledge of the laws, accustomed
to the eye of the judges, habituated to the looks of a numerous
audience, and acquainted with the popular taste. After this
preparation, he was called forth to conduct a prosecution, or to
take upon himself the whole weight of the defence. The fruit of his
application was then seen at once. He was equal, in his first
outset, to the most arduous business. Thus it was that Crassus, at
the age of nineteen, stood forth the accuser of Papirius Carbo: thus
Julius Cæsar, at one and twenty, arraigned Dolabella; Asinius
Pollio, about the same age, attacked Caius Cato; and Calvus, but a
little older, flamed out against Vatinius. Their several speeches
are still extant, and we all read them with admiration.

XXXV. In opposition to this system of education, what is our
modern practice? Our young men are led to academical prolusions in the
school of vain professors, who call themselves rhetoricians; a race
of impostors, who made their first appearance at Rome, not long
before the days of Cicero. That they were unwelcome visitors, is
evident from the circumstance of their being silenced by the two
censors,
Crassus and Domitius. They were ordered, says Cicero, to shut up
their school of impudence. Those scenes, however, are open at
present, and there our young students listen to mountebank oratory.
I am at a loss how to determine which is most fatal to all true
genius, the place itself, the company that frequent it, or the plan
of study universally adopted. Can the place impress the mind with
awe and respect, where none are ever seen but the raw, the
unskilful, and the ignorant? In such an assembly what advantage can
arise? Boys harangue before boys, and young men exhibit before
their fellows. The speaker is pleased with his declamation, and the
hearer with his judgement. The very subjects on which they display
their talents, tend to no useful purpose. They are of two sorts,
persuasive or controversial. The first, supposed to be of the
lighter kind, are usually assigned to the youngest scholars: the
last are reserved for students of longer practice and riper
judgement. But, gracious powers! what are the compositions produced
on these occasions?
The subject is remote from truth, and even probability, unlike
any thing that ever happened in human life: and no wonder if the
superstructure perfectly agrees with the foundation. It is to these
scenic exercises that we owe a number of frivolous topics, such as
the reward due to the slayer of a tyrant; the election to be made
by violated
virgins; the rites and ceremonies proper to be used during a raging
pestilence; the loose behaviour of married women; with other
fictitious subjects, hackneyed in the schools, and seldom or never
heard of in our courts of justice. These imaginary questions are
treated with gaudy flourishes, and all the tumor of unnatural
language. But after all this mighty parade, call these striplings
from their schools of rhetoric, into the presence of the judges,
and to the real business of the bar:
1. What figure will they make before that solemn judicature?
Trained up in chimerical exercises, strangers to the municipal
laws, unacquainted with the principles of natural justice and the
rights of nations, they will bring with them that false taste which
they have been for years acquiring, but nothing worthy of the
public ear, nothing useful to their clients. They have succeeded in
nothing but the art of making themselves ridiculous. The peculiar
quality of the teacher,
whatever it be, is sure to transfuse itself into the performance of
the pupil. Is the master haughty, fierce, and arrogant; the scholar
swells with confidence; his eye threatens prodigious things, and
his harangue is an ostentatious display of the common-places of
school oratory, dressed up with dazzling splendour, and thundered
forth with emphasis. On the other hand, does the master value
himself for the delicacy of his taste, for the foppery of
glittering conceits and tinsel ornament; the youth who has been
educated under him, sets out with the same artificial prettiness,
the same foppery of style and manner. A simper plays on his
countenance; his elocution is soft and delicate; his action
pathetic; his sentences entangled in a maze of sweet perplexity; he
plays off the whole of his theatrical skill, and hopes to elevate
and surprise.
2. This love of finery, this ambition to shine and glitter, has
destroyed all true eloquence. Oratory is not the child of hireling
teachers; it springs from another source, from a love of liberty,
from a mind replete with moral science, and a thorough knowledge of
the laws; from a due respect for the best examples, from profound
meditation, and a style
formed by constant practice. While these were thought essential
requisites, eloquence flourished. But the true beauties of language
fell into disuse, and oratory went to ruin. The spirit evaporated;
I fear, to revive no more. I wish I may prove a false prophet, but
we know the progress of art in every age and country. Rude at
first, it rises from low beginnings, and goes on improving, till it
reaches the highest perfection in the kind. But at that point it is
never stationary: it soon declines, and from the corruption of what
is good, it is not in the nature of man, nor in the power of human
faculties, to rise again to the same degree of excellence.
3. Messala closed with a degree of vehemence, and then turning
to Maternus and Secundus, It is yours, he said, to pursue this train of
argument; or if any cause of the decay of eloquence lies still
deeper, you will oblige us by bringing it to light. Maternus, I
presume, will find no difficulty: a poetic genius holds commerce
with the gods, and to him nothing will remain a secret. As for
Secundus, he has been long a shining ornament of the forum, and by
his own experience knows how to distinguish genuine eloquence from
the corrupt and vicious. Maternus heard this sally of his friend's
good humour with a smile. The task, he said, which you have imposed
upon us, we will endeavour to execute. But though I am the
interpreter of the gods, I must notwithstanding request that
Secundus may take the lead. He is master of the subject, and, in
questions of this kind, experience is better than inspiration.
4. Secundus complied
with his friend's request. I yield, he said, the more willingly, as
I shall hazard no new opinion, but rather confirm what has been
urged by Messala. It is certain, that, as painters are formed by
painters, and poets by the example of poets, so the young orator
must learn his art from orators only. In the schools of
rhetoricians, who think
themselves the fountain-head of eloquence, every thing is false and
vitiated. The true principles of the persuasive art are never known
to the professor, or if at any time there may be found a preceptor
of superior genius, can it be expected that he shall be able to
transfuse into the mind of his pupil all his own conceptions, pure,
unmixed, and free from error? The sensibility of the master, since
we have allowed him genius, will be an impediment: the uniformity
of the same dull tedious round will give him disgust, and the
student will turn from it with aversion. And yet I am inclined to
think, that the decay of eloquence would not have been so rapid, if
other causes, more fatal than the corruption of the schools, had
not co-operated. When the worst models became the objects of
imitation, and not only the young men of the age, but even the
whole body of the people, admired the new way of speaking,
eloquence fell at once into that state of degeneracy, from which
nothing can recover it. We, who came afterwards, found ourselves in
a hopeless situation: we were driven to wretched expedients, to
forced conceits, and the glitter of frivolous sentences; we were
obliged to hunt after wit, when we could be no longer eloquent. By
what pernicious examples this was accomplished, has been explained
by our friend Messala.
5. We are none of us strangers to those unhappy times, when
Rome, grown weary of her vast renown in arms, began to think of
striking into new paths of fame, no longer willing to depend on the
glory of our ancestors. The whole power of the state was centred in
a single ruler, and by the policy of the prince, men were taught to
think no more of ancient honour. Invention was on the stretch for
novelty, and all looked for something better than perfection;
something rare, far-fetched, and exquisite. New modes of pleasure
were devised. In that period of luxury and dissipation, when the
rage for new inventions was grown epidemic, Seneca arose. His
talents were of a peculiar sort, acute, refined and polished; but
polished to a degree that made him prefer affectation and wit to
truth and nature. The predominance of his genius was great, and, by
consequence, he gave the mortal stab to all true eloquence. When I say this, let me not be
suspected of that low malignity which would tarnish the fame of a
great character. I admire the man, and the philosopher. The
undaunted firmness with which he braved the tyrant's frown, will do
immortal honour to his memory. But the fact is (and why should I
disguise it?), the virtues of the writer have undone his
country.
6. To bring about this unhappy revolution, no man was so
eminently qualified. His
understanding was large and comprehensive; his genius rich and
powerful; his way of thinking ingenious, elegant, and even
charming. His researches in moral philosophy excited the admiration
of all; and moral philosophy is never so highly praised, as when
the manners are in a state of degeneracy. Seneca knew the taste of
the times. He had the art to gratify the public ear. His style is
neat, yet animated; concise, yet clear; familiar, yet seldom
inelegant. Free from redundancy, his periods are often abrupt, but
they surprise by their vivacity. He shines in pointed sentences;
and that unceasing persecution of vice, which is kept up with
uncommon ardour, spreads a lustre over all his writings. His
brilliant style charmed by its novelty. Every page sparkles with
wit, with gay allusions, and sentiments of virtue. No wonder that
the graceful ease, and sometimes the dignity of his expression,
made their way into the forum. What pleased universally, soon found
a number of imitators. Add to this the advantages of rank and
honours. He mixed in the splendour, and perhaps in the vices, of
the court. The resentment of Caligula, and the acts of oppression
which soon after followed, served only to adorn his name. To crown
all, Nero was his pupil, and his murderer. Hence the character and
genius of the man rose to the highest eminence. What was admired,
was imitated, and true oratory was heard no more. The love of
novelty prevailed, and for the dignified simplicity of ancient
eloquence no taste remained. The art itself, and all its necessary
discipline, became ridiculous. In that black period, when vice
triumphed at large, and virtue had every thing to fear, the temper
of the times was propitious to the corruptors of taste and liberal
science. The dignity of composition was no longer of use. It had no
power to stop the torrent of vice which deluged the city of Rome,
and virtue found it a feeble protection. In such a conjuncture it
was not safe to speak the sentiments of the heart. To be obscure,
abrupt, and dark, was the best expedient. Then it was that the
affected sententious brevity came into vogue. To speak concisely,
and with an air of precipitation, was the general practice. To work
the ruin of a person accused, a single sentence, or a splendid
phrase, was sufficient. Men defended themselves in a short
brilliant expression; and if that did not protect them, they died
with a lively apophthegm, and their last words were wit. This was
the fashion introduced by Seneca. The peculiar, but agreeable vices
of his style, wrought the downfall of eloquence. The solid was
exchanged for the brilliant, and they, who ceased to be orators,
studied to be ingenious.
7. Of late, indeed, we have seen the dawn of better times. In
the course of the last six years Vespasian has revived our hopes. The friend of regular
manners, and the encourager of ancient virtue, by which Rome was
raised to the highest pinnacle of glory, he has restored the public
peace, and with it the blessings of liberty. Under his propitious
influence, the arts and sciences begin once more to flourish, and
genius has been honoured with his munificence. The example of his
sons has helped to
kindle a spirit of emulation. We beheld, with pleasure, the two
princes adding to the dignity of their rank, and their fame in
arms, all the grace and elegance of polite literature. But it is
fatally true, that when the public taste is once corrupted, the
mind which has been warped, seldom recovers its former tone. This
difficulty was rendered still more insurmountable by the licentious
spirit of our young men, and the popular applause, that encouraged
the false taste of the times. I need not, in this company, call to
mind the unbridled presumption, with which, as soon as genuine
eloquence expired, the young men of the age took possession of the
forum. Of modest worth and ancient manners nothing remained. We
know that in former times the youthful candidate was introduced in
the forum by a person of consular rank, and by him set forward in his road to fame. That
laudable custom being at an end, all fences were thrown down: no
sense of shame remained, no respect for the tribunals of justice.
The aspiring genius wanted no patronage; he scorned the usual forms
of a regular introduction; and, with full confidence in his own
powers, he obtruded himself on the court. Neither the solemnity of
the place, nor the sanctity of laws, nor the importance of the
oratorical character, could restrain the impetuosity of young
ambition. Unconscious of the importance of the undertaking, and
less sensible of his own incapacity, the bold adventurer rushed at
once into the most arduous business. Arrogance supplied the place
of talents.
8. To oppose the torrent, that bore down every thing, the danger
of losing all fair and honest fame was the only circumstance that
could afford a ray of hope. But even that slender fence was soon
removed by the arts of
Largius Licinius. He was the first that opened a new road to
ambition. He intrigued for fame, and filled the benches with an
audience suborned to applaud his declamations. He had his circle
round him, and shouts of approbation followed. It was upon that
occasion that Domitius Afer emphatically said, Eloquence is now at the last gasp.
It had, indeed, at that time shewn manifest symptoms of decay, but
its total ruin may be dated from the introduction of a mercenary
band to flatter and
applaud. If we except a chosen few, whose superior genius has not
as yet been seduced from truth and nature, the rest are followed by
their partisans, like actors on the stage, subsisting altogether on
the bought suffrages of mean and prostitute hirelings. Nor is this
sordid traffic carried on with secrecy: we see the bargain made in
the face of the court; the bribe is distributed with as little
ceremony as if they were in a private party at the orator's own
house. Having sold their voices, this venal crew rush forward from
one tribunal to another, the distributors of fame, and the sole
judges of literary merit. The practice is, no doubt, disgraceful.
To brand it with infamy, two new terms have been invented, one in the Greek language,
importing the venders of praise, and the other in the Latin idiom,
signifying the parasites who sell their applause for a supper. But
sarcastic expressions have not been able to cure the mischief: the
applauders by profession have taken courage, and the name, which
was intended as a stroke of ridicule, is now become an honourable
appellation.
9. This infamous practice rages at present with increasing
violence. The party no longer consists of freeborn citizens; our
very slaves are hired. Even before they arrive at full age, we see
them distributing the rewards of eloquence. Without attending to
what is said, and without sense enough to understand, they are sure
to crowd the courts of justice, whenever a raw young man, stung
with the love of fame, but without talents to deserve it, obtrudes
himself in the character of an advocate. The hall resounds with
acclamations, or rather with a kind of bellowing; for I know not by
what term to express that savage uproar, which would disgrace a
theatre.
Upon the whole, when I consider these infamous practices, which
have brought so much dishonour upon a liberal profession, I am far
from wondering that you, Maternus, judged it time to sound your
retreat. When you could no longer attend with honour, you did well,
my friend, to devote yourself entirely to the muses. And now, since
you are to close the debate, permit me to request, that, besides
unfolding the causes of corrupt eloquence, you will fairly tell us,
whether you entertain any hopes of better times, and, if you do, by
what means a reformation may be accomplished.
10. It is true,
said Maternus, that seeing the forum deluged by an inundation of
vices, I was glad, as my friend expressed it, to sound my retreat.
I saw corruption rushing on with hasty strides, too shameful to be
defended, and too powerful to be resisted. And yet, though urged by
all those motives, I should hardly have renounced the business of
the bar, if the bias of my nature had not inclined me to other
studies. I balanced, however, for some time. It was, at first, my
fixed resolution to stand to the last a poor remnant of that
integrity and manly eloquence, which still lingered at the bar, and
shewed some signs of life. It was my intention to emulate, not,
indeed, with equal powers, but certainly with equal firmness, the
bright models of ancient times, and, in that course of practice, to
defend the fortunes, the dignity, and the innocence of my
fellow-citizens. But the strong impulse of inclination was not to
be resisted. I laid down my arms, and deserted to the safe and
tranquil camp of the muses. But though a deserter, I have not quite
forgot the service in which I was enlisted. I honour the professors
of real eloquence, and that sentiment, I hope, will be always warm
in my heart.
11. In my solitary walks, and moments of meditation, it often
happens, that I fall into a train of thinking on the flourishing
state of ancient eloquence, and the abject condition to which it is
reduced in modern times. The result of my reflections I shall
venture to unfold, not with a spirit of controversy, nor yet
dogmatically to enforce my own opinion. I may differ in some
points, but from a collision of sentiments it is possible that some
new light may be struck out. My friend Aper will, therefore, excuse
me, if I do not, with him, prefer the false glitter of the moderns
to the solid vigour of ancient genius. At the same time, it is not
my intention to disparage his friends. Messala too, whom you,
Secundus, have closely followed, will forgive me, if I do not, in
every thing, coincide with his opinion. The vices of the forum,
which you have both, as becomes men of integrity, attacked with
vehemence, will not have me for their apologist. But still I may be
allowed to ask, have not you been too much exasperated against the
rhetoricians?
I will not say in their favour, that I think them equal to the
task of reviving the honours of eloquence; but I have known among
them, men of unblemished morals, of regular discipline, great
erudition, and talents every way fit to form the minds of youth to
a just taste for science and the persuasive arts. In this number
one in particular has
lately shone forth with superior lustre. From his abilities, all
that is in the power of man may fairly be expected. A genius like
his would have been the ornament of better times. Posterity will
admire and honour him. And yet I would not have Secundus amuse
himself with ill-grounded hopes: neither the learning of that most
excellent man, nor the industry of such as may follow him, will be
able to promote the interests of Eloquence, or to establish her
former glory. It is a lost cause. Before the vices, which have been
so ably described, had spread a general infection, all true oratory
was at an end. The revolutions in our government, and the violence
of the times, began the mischief, and, in the end, gave the fatal
blow.
12. Nor are we to wonder at this event. In the course of human
affairs there is no stability, nothing secure or permanent. It is
with our minds as with our bodies: the latter, as soon as they have
attained their full growth, and seem to flourish in the vigour of
health, begin, from that moment, to feel the gradual approaches of
decay. Our intellectual powers proceed in the same manner; they
gain strength by degrees, they arrive at maturity, and, when they
can no longer improve, they languish, droop, and fade away. This is
the law of nature, to which every age, and every nation, of which
we have any historical records, have been obliged to submit. There
is besides another general law, hard perhaps, but wonderfully
ordained, and it is this: nature, whose operations are always
simple and uniform, never suffers in any age or country, more than
one great example of perfection in the kind. This was the case in Greece, that
prolific parent of genius and of science. She had but one Homer,
one Plato, one Demosthenes. The same has happened at Rome: Virgil
stands at the head of his art, and Cicero is still unrivalled.
During a space of seven hundred years our ancestors were struggling
to reach the summit of perfection: Cicero at length arose; he
thundered forth his immortal energy, and nature was satisfied with
the wonder she had made. The force of genius could go no further. A
new road to fame was to be found. We aimed at wit, and gay conceit,
and glittering sentences. The change, indeed, was great; but it
naturally followed the new form of government. Genius died with
public liberty.
13. We find that the discourse of men always conforms to the
temper of the times. Among savage nations language is never copious. A few words
serve the purpose of barbarians, and those are always uncouth and
harsh, without the artifice of connection; short, abrupt, and
nervous. In a state of polished society, where a single ruler sways
the sceptre, the powers of the mind take a softer tone, and
language grows more refined. But affectation follows, and precision
gives way to delicacy. The just and natural expression is no longer
the fashion. Living in ease and luxury, men look for elegance, and
hope by novelty to give a grace to adulation. In other nations,
where the first principles of the civil union are maintained in
vigour; where the people live under the government of laws, and not
the will of man; where the spirit of liberty pervades all ranks and
orders of the state; where every individual holds himself bound, at
the hazard of his life, to defend the constitution framed by his
ancestors; where, without being guilty of an impious crime, no man
dares to violate the rights of the whole community; in such a
state, the national eloquence will be prompt, bold, and animated.
Should internal dissensions shake the public peace, or foreign
enemies threaten to invade the land, Eloquence comes forth arrayed
in terror; she wields her thunder, and commands all hearts. It is
true, that upon those occasions men of ambition endeavour, for
their own purposes, to spread the flame of sedition; while the good
and virtuous combine their force to quell the turbulent, and repel
the menaces of a foreign enemy. Liberty gains new strength by the
conflict, and the true patriot has the glory of serving his
country, distinguished by his valour in the field, and in debate no
less terrible by his eloquence.
14. Hence it is that in free governments we see a constellation
of orators. Hence Demosthenes displayed the powers of his amazing
genius, and acquired immortal honour. He saw a quick and lively
people, dissolved in luxury, open to the seductions of wealth, and
ready to submit to a master; he saw a great and warlike monarch
threatening destruction to the liberties of his country; he saw
that prince at the head of powerful armies, renowned for victory,
possessed of an opulent treasury, formidable in battle, and, by his
secret arts, still more so in the cabinet; he saw that king,
inflamed by ambition and the lust of dominion, determined to
destroy the liberties of Greece. It was that alarming crisis that
called forth the powers of Demosthenes. Armed with eloquence, and
with eloquence only, he stood as a bulwark against a combination of
enemies foreign and domestic. He roused his countrymen from their
lethargy: he kindled the holy flame of liberty; he counteracted the
machinations of Philip, detected his clandestine frauds, and fired
the men of Athens with indignation. To effect these generous
purposes, and defeat the policy of a subtle enemy, what powers of
mind were necessary! how vast, how copious, how sublime! He
thundered and lightened in his discourse; he faced every danger
with undaunted resolution. Difficulties served only to inspire him
with new ardour. The love of his country glowed in his heart;
liberty roused all his powers, and Fame held forth her immortal
wreath to reward his labours. These were the fine incentives that
roused his genius, and no wonder that his mind expanded with vast
conceptions. He thought for his country, and, by consequence, every
sentiment was sublime; every expression was grand and
magnificent.

XXXVI. The true spirit of genuine eloquence, like an intense fire, is kept
alive by fresh materials: every new commotion gives it vigour, and
in proportion as it burns, it expands and brightens to a purer
flame. The same causes at Rome produced the same effect.
Tempestuous times called forth the genius of our ancestors. The
moderns, it is true, have taken fire, and rose above themselves, as
often as a quiet, settled, and uniform government gave a fair
opportunity; but eloquence, it is certain, flourishes most under a
bold and turbulent democracy, where the ambitious citizen, who best
can mould to his purposes a fierce and contentious multitude, is
sure to be the idol of the people. In the conflict of parties, that
kept our ancestors in agitation, laws were multiplied; the leading
chiefs were the favourite demagogues; the magistrates were often
engaged in midnight debate; eminent citizens were brought to a
public trial; families were set at variance; the nobles were split
into factions, and the senate waged incessant war against the
people. Hence that flame of eloquence which blazed out under the
republican government, and hence that constant fuel that kept the
flame alive.
The state, it is true, was often thrown into convulsions: but
talents were exercised, and genius opened the way to public
honours. He who possessed the powers of persuasion, rose to
eminence, and by the arts which gave him popularity, he was sure to
eclipse his colleagues. He strengthened his interest with the
leading men, and gained weight and influence not only in the
senate, but in all assemblies of the people. Foreign nations courted his
friendship. The magistrates, setting out for their provinces, made
it their business to ingratiate themselves with the popular
speaker, and, at their return, took care to renew their homage. The
powerful orator had no occasion to solicit for preferment: the
offices of prætor and consul stood open to receive him. He
was invited to those exalted stations. Even in the rank of a
private citizen he had a considerable share of power, since his
authority swayed at once the senate and the people. It was in those
days a settled maxim, that no man could either rise to dignities,
or support himself in office, without possessing, in an eminent
degree, a power of words, and dignity of language.
Nor can this be a matter of wonder, when we recollect, that
persons of distinguished genius were, on various occasions, called
forth by the voice of the people, and in their presence obliged to
act an important part. Eloquence was the ruling passion of all. The
reason is, it was not then sufficient merely to vote in the senate;
it was necessary to support that vote with strength of reasoning,
and a flow of language. Moreover, in all prosecutions, the party
accused was expected to make his defence in person, and to examine
the witnesses, who at that time were not allowed to speak in
written depositions, but were obliged to give their testimony in
open court. In this manner, necessity, no less than the temptation
of bright rewards, conspired to make men cultivate the arts of
oratory. He who was known to possess the powers of speech, was held
in the highest veneration. The mute and silent character fell into
contempt. The dread of shame was a motive not less powerful than
the ambition that aimed at honours. To sink into the humiliating
rank of a client, instead of maintaining the dignity of a patron,
was a degrading thought. Men were unwilling to see the followers of
their ancestors transferred to other families for protection. Above
all, they dreaded the disgrace of being thought unworthy of civil
honours; and, if by intrigue they attained their wishes, the fear
of being despised for incapacity was a spur to quicken their ardour
in the pursuit of literary fame and commanding eloquence.

XXXVII. I do not know whether you have as yet seen the
historical memoirs which Mucianus has collected, and lately
published, containing, in eleven volumes, the transactions of the
times, and, in three more, the letters of eminent men who figured
on the stage of public business. This portion of history is well
authenticated by the original papers, still extant in the libraries
of the curious. From this valuable collection it appears, that
Pompey and Crassus owed their elevation as much to their talents as
to their fame in arms; and that Lentulus, Metellus, Lucullus, Curio, and
others of that class, took care to enlarge their minds, and
distinguish themselves by their powers of speech. To say all in one
word, no man, in those times, rose to eminence in the state, who
had not given proof of his genius in the forum and the tribunals of
justice.
To this it may be added, that the importance, the splendour, and
magnitude of the questions discussed in that period, served to
animate the public orator. The subject, beyond all doubt, lifts the
mind above itself: it gives vigour to sentiment, and energy to
expression. Let the topic be a paltry theft, a dry form of
pleading, or a petty misdemeanor; will not the orator feel himself
cramped and chilled by the meanness of the question? Give him a
cause of magnitude, such as bribery in the election of magistrates,
a charge for plundering the allies of Rome, or the murder of Roman
citizens, how different then his emotions! how sublime each
sentiment! what dignity of language! The effect, it must be
admitted, springs from the disasters of society. It is true, that
form of government, in which no such evils occur, must, beyond all
question, be allowed to be the best; but since, in the course of
human affairs, sudden convulsions must happen, my position is, that
they produced, at Rome, that flame of eloquence which at this hour
is so much admired. The mind of the orator grows and expands with
his subject. Without ample materials no splendid oration was ever
yet produced. Demosthenes, I believe, did not owe his vast
reputation to the speeches which he made against his guardians; nor was
it either the oration in defence of Quinctius, or that for Archias
the poet, that established the character of Cicero. It was
Catiline, it was Verres, it was Milo and Mark Antony, that spread
so much glory round him.
Let me not be misunderstood: I do not say, that for the sake of
hearing a bright display of eloquence, it is fit that the public
peace should be disturbed by the machinations of turbulent and
lawless men. But, not to lose sight of the question before us, let
it be remembered, that we are enquiring about an art which thrives
and flourishes most in tempestuous times. It were, no doubt, better
that the public should enjoy the sweets of peace, than be harassed
by the calamities of war: but still it is war that produces the
soldier and great commander. It is the same with Eloquence. The
oftener she is obliged, if I may so express it, to take the field,
the more frequent the engagement, in which she gives and receives
alternate wounds, and the more formidable her adversary; the more
she rises in pomp and grandeur, and returns from the warfare of the
forum crowned with unfading laurels. He, who encounters danger, is
ever sure to win the suffrages of mankind. For such is the nature
of the human mind, that, in general, we choose a state of security
for ourselves, but never fail to gaze with admiration on the man,
whom we see, in the conflict of parties, facing his adversaries,
and surmounting difficulties.

XXXVIII. I proceed to another advantage of the ancient forum; I
mean the form of proceeding and the rules of practice observed in
those days. Our modern custom is, I grant, more conducive to truth
and justice; but that of former times gave to eloquence a free
career, and, by consequence, greater weight and splendour. The
advocate was not, as now, confined to a few hours; he might
adjourn as often as it suited his convenience; he might expatiate,
as his genius prompted him: and the number of days, like that of
the several patrons, was unlimited. Pompey was the first who
circumscribed the genius of men within narrower limits. In his third
consulship he gave a check to eloquence, and, as it were, bridled
its spirit, but still left all causes to be tried according to law
in the forum, and before the prætors. The importance of the
business, which was decided in that court of justice, will be
evident, if we compare it with the transactions before the
centumvirs, who at present have cognizance of all matters
whatever. We have not so much as one oration of Cicero or
Cæsar, of Brutus, Cælius, or Calvus, or any other
person famous for his eloquence, which was delivered before the
last-mentioned jurisdiction, excepting only the speeches of Asinius
Pollio
for the heirs of Urbinia. But those speeches were delivered about
the middle of the reign of Augustus, when, after a long peace with
foreign nations, and a profound tranquillity at home, that wise and
politic prince had conquered all opposition, and not only triumphed
over party and faction, but subdued eloquence itself.

XXXIX. What I am going to say will appear, perhaps, too minute;
it may border on the ridiculous, and excite your mirth: with all my
heart; I will hazard it for that very reason. The dress now in use
at the bar has an air of meanness: the speaker is confined in a
close robe,
and loses all the grace of action. The very courts of judicature
are another objection; all causes are heard, at present, in little
narrow rooms, where spirit and strenuous exertion are unnecessary.
The orator, like a generous steed, requires liberty and ample
space: before a scanty tribunal his spirit droops, and the dullness
of the scene damps the powers of genius. Add to this, we pay no
attention to style; and indeed how should we? No time is allowed
for the beauties of composition: the judge calls upon you to begin,
and you must obey, liable, at the same time, to frequent
interruptions, while documents are read, and witnesses
examined.
During all this formality, what kind of an audience has the
orator to invigorate his faculties? Two or three stragglers drop in
by chance, and to them the whole business seems to be transacted in
solitude. But the orator requires a different scene. He delights in
clamour, tumult, and bursts of applause. Eloquence must have her
theatre, as was the case in ancient times, when the forum was
crowded with the first men in Rome; when a numerous train of
clients pressed forward with eager expectation; when the people, in
their several tribes; when ambassadors from the colonies, and a
great part of Italy; attended to hear the debate; in short, when
all Rome was interested in the event. We know that in the cases of
Cornelius, Scaurus, Milo, Bestia, and Vatinius, the concourse was
so great, that those several causes were tried before the whole
body of the people. A scene so vast and magnificent was enough to
inflame the most languid orator. The speeches delivered upon those
occasions are in every body's hands, and, by their intrinsic
excellence, we of this day estimate the genius of the respective
authors.

XL. If we now consider the frequent assemblies of the people,
and the right of prosecuting the most eminent men in the state; if
we reflect on the glory that sprung from the declared hostility of
the most illustrious characters; if we recollect, that even Scipio,
Sylla, and Pompey, were not sheltered from the storms of eloquence,
what a number of causes shall we see conspiring to rouse the spirit
of the ancient forum! The malignity of the human heart, always
adverse to superior characters, encouraged the orator to persist.
The very players, by sarcastic allusions to men in power, gratified
the public ear, and, by consequence, sharpened the wit and acrimony
of the bold declaimer.
Need I observe to you, that in all I have said, I have not been
speaking of that temperate faculty which delights in quiet times, supported by its own
integrity, and the virtues of moderation? I speak of popular
eloquence, the genuine offspring of that licentiousness, to which
fools and ill-designing men have given the name of liberty: I speak
of bold and turbulent oratory, that inflamer of the people, and
constant companion of sedition; that fierce incendiary, that knows
no compliance, and scorns to temporize; busy, rash, and arrogant,
but, in quiet and well regulated governments, utterly unknown. Who
ever heard of an orator at Crete or Lacedæmon? In those
states a system of rigorous discipline was established by the first
principles of the constitution. Macedonian and Persian eloquence
are equally unknown. The same may be said of every country, where
the plan of government was fixed and uniform.
At Rhodes, indeed, and also at Athens, orators existed without
number, and the reason is, in those communities the people directed
every thing; a giddy multitude governed, and, to say the truth, all
things were in the power of all. In like manner, while Rome was
engaged in one perpetual scene of contention; while parties,
factions, and internal divisions, convulsed the state; no peace in
the forum, in the senate no union of sentiment; while the tribunals
of justice acted without moderation; while the magistrates knew no
bounds, and no man paid respect to eminent merit; in such times it
must be acknowledged that Rome produced a race of noble orators; as
in the wild uncultivated field the richest vegetables will often
shoot up, and flourish with uncommon vigour. And yet it is fair to
ask, Could all the eloquence of the Gracchi atone for the laws
which they imposed on their country? Could the fame which Cicero
obtained by his eloquence, compensate for the tragic end to which
it brought him?

XLI. The forum, at present, is the last sad relic of ancient
oratory. But does that epitome of former greatness give the idea of
a city so well regulated, that we may rest contented with our form
of government, without wishing for a reformation of abuses? If we
except the man of guilt, or such as labour under the hard hand of
oppression, who resorts to us for our assistance? If a municipal
city applies for protection, it is, when the inhabitants, harassed
by the adjacent states, or rent and torn by intestine divisions,
sue for protection. The province, that addresses the senate for a
redress of grievances, has been oppressed and plundered, before we
hear of the complaint. It is true, we vindicate the injured, but to
suffer no oppression would surely be better than to obtain relief.
Find, if you can, in any part of the world a wise and happy
community, where no man offends against the laws: in such a nation
what can be the use of oratory? You may as well profess the healing
art where ill health is never known. Let men enjoy bodily vigour,
and the practice of physic will have no encouragement. In like
manner, where sober manners prevail, and submission to the
authority of government is the national virtue, the powers of
persuasion are rendered useless. Eloquence has lost her field of
glory. In the senate, what need of elaborate speeches, when all
good men are already of one mind? What occasion for studied
harangues before a popular assembly, where the form of government
leaves nothing to the decision of a wild democracy, but the whole
administration is conducted by the wisdom of a single ruler? And
again; when crimes are rare, and in fact of no great moment, what
avails the boasted right of individuals to commence a voluntary
prosecution? What necessity for a studied defence, often composed
in a style of vehemence, artfully addressed to the passions, and
generally stretched beyond all bounds, when justice is executed in
mercy, and the judge is of himself disposed to succour the
distressed?
Believe me, my very good, and (as far as the times will admit)
my eloquent friends, had it been your lot to live under the old
republic, and the men whom we so much admire had been reserved for
the present age; if some god had changed the period of theirs and
your existence, the flame of genius had been yours, and the chiefs
of antiquity would now be acting with minds subdued to the temper
of the times. Upon the whole, since no man can enjoy a state of
calm tranquillity, and, at the same time, raise a great and
splendid reputation; to be content with the benefits of the age in
which we live, without detracting from our ancestors, is the virtue
that best becomes us.

XLII. Maternus concluded his discourse. There have been, said Messala, some
points advanced, to which I do not entirely accede; and others,
which I think require farther explanation. But the day is well nigh
spent. We will, therefore, adjourn the debate. Be it as you think
proper, replied Maternus; and if, in what I have said, you find any
thing not sufficiently clear, we will adjust those matters in some
future conference. Hereupon he rose from his seat, and embracing
Aper, I am afraid, he said, that it will fare hardly with you, my
good friend. I shall cite you to answer before the poets, and
Messala will arraign you at the bar of the antiquarians. And I,
replied Aper, shall make reprisals on you both before the school
professors and the rhetoricians. This occasioned some mirth and
raillery. We laughed, and parted in good humour.

END OF THE DIALOGUE.



NOTES ON THE DIALOGUE CONCERNING ORATORY.

The scene of the following Dialogue is laid in the sixth year of
Vespasian, A.U.C. 828. A.D. 75. The commentators are much divided
in their opinions about the real author; his work they all agree is
a masterpiece in the kind; written with taste and judgement;
entertaining, profound, and elegant. But whether it is to be
ascribed to Tacitus, Quintilian, or any other person whom they
cannot name, is a question upon which they have exhausted a store
of learning. They have given us, according to their custom, much
controversy, and little decision. In this field of conjecture
Lipsius led the way. He published, in 1574, the first good edition
of Tacitus, with emendations of the text, and not removed; he still
remains in suspense. Cum multa dixerim, claudo tamen omnia hoc
responso; MIHI NON LIQUERE. Gronovius Pichena, Ryckius,
Rhenanus, and others, have entered warmly into the dispute. An
elegant modern writer has hazarded a new conjecture. The last of
Sir Thomas Fitzosborne's Letters is a kind of preface to Mr.
Melmoth's Translation of the Dialogue before us. He says; of all
the conversation pieces, whether ancient or modern, either of the
moral or polite kind, he knows not one more elegantly written than
the little anonymous Dialogue concerning the rise and decline of
eloquence among the Romans. He calls it anonymous, though he is
aware, that it has been ascribed not only to Tacitus and
Quintilian, but even to Suetonius. The reasons, however, are so
inconclusive, that he is inclined to give it to the younger Pliny.
He thinks it perfectly coincides with Pliny's age; it is addressed
to one of his particular friends, and is marked with similar
expressions and sentiments. But, with all due submission to Mr.
Melmoth, his new candidate cannot long hold us in suspense. It
appears in the account of the eruption of Mount Vesuvius, in which
Pliny's uncle lost his life. A.U.C. 832. A.D. 79, that Pliny was
then eighteen years old, and, as the Dialogue was in 828, he could
then be no more than fourteen; a time of life, when he was neither
fit to be admitted to a learned debate, nor capable of
understanding it. Besides this, two letters to his friend FABIUS
are still extant; one in the first book, epist. 11; the other, book
vii. epist. 2. No mention of the Dialogue occurs in either of those
letters, nor in any other part of his works; a circumstance, which
could scarce have happened to a writer so tenderly anxious about
his literary character, if the work in question had been the
production of his part. Brotier, the last, and, it may be said, the
best of all the editors of Tacitus, is of opinion that a tract, so
beautiful and judicious, ought not, without better reasons than
have been as yet assigned, to be adjudged from Tacitus to any other
writer. He relies much on the first edition, which was published at
Venice (1468), containing the last six books of the Annals (the
first six not being then found), the five books of the History, and
the Dialogue, intitled, Cornelii Taciti Equitis Romani Dialogus
de Oratoribus claris. There were also in the Vatican,
manuscript copies of the Dialogue de Oratoribus. In 1515,
when the six first Annals were found in Germany, a new edition,
under the patronage of Leo X. was published by Beroaldus, carefully
collated with the manuscript, which was afterwards placed in the
Florentine Library. Those early authorities preponderate with
Brotier against all modern conjecture; more especially, since the
age of Tacitus agrees with the time of the Dialogue. He was four
years older than his friend Pliny, and, at eighteen, might properly
be allowed by his friends to be of their party. In two years
afterwards (A.U. 830), he married Agricola's daughter, and he
expressly says, (Life of Agricola, sect. ix.) that he was then a
very young man. The arguments, drawn by the several commentators
from the difference of style, Brotier thinks are of no weight. The
style of a young author will naturally differ from what he has
settled by practice at an advanced period of life. This has been
observed in many eminent writers, and in none more than Lipsius
himself. His language, in the outset, was easy, flowing, and
elegant; but, as he advanced in years, it became stiff, abrupt, and
harsh. Tacitus relates a conversation on a literary subject; and in
such a piece, who can expect to find the style of an historian or
an annalist? For these reasons Brotier thinks that this Dialogue
may, with good reason, be ascribed to Tacitus. The translator
enters no farther into the controversy, than to say, that in a case
where certainty cannot be obtained, we must rest satisfied with the
best evidence the nature of the thing will admit. The dispute is of
no importance; for, as Lipsius says, whether we give the Dialogue
to Quintilian or to Tacitus, no inconvenience can arise. Whoever
was the author, it is a performance of uncommon beauty.
Before we close this introduction, it will not be improper to
say a word or two about Brotier's Supplement. In the wreck of
ancient literature a considerable part of this Dialogue has
perished, and, by consequence, a chasm is left, much to be lamented
by every reader of taste. To avoid the inconvenience of a broken
context, Brotier has endeavoured to compensate for the loss. What
he has added, will be found in the progress of the work; and as it
is executed by the learned editor with great elegance, and equal
probability, it is hoped that the insertion of it will be more
agreeable to the reader, than a dull pause of melancholy
regret.

Section I.
 Justus Fabius was
consul A.U.C. 864, A.D. 111. But as he did not begin the year, his
name does not appear in the FASTI CONSULARES. There are two letters
to him from his friend Pliny; the first, lib. i. epist. 11; the
other, lib. vii. ep. 2. it is remarkable, that in the last, the
author talks of sending some of his writings for his friend's
perusal; quæram quid potissimum ex nugis meis tibi
exhibeam; but not a word is said about the decline of
eloquence.

Section II.
 Concerning
Maternus nothing is known with any kind of certainty. Dio relates
that a sophist, of that name, was put to death by Domitian, for a
school declamation against tyrants: but not one of the commentators
ventures to assert that he was the Curiatius Maternus, who
makes so conspicuous a figure in the Dialogue before us.
 No mention is made
of Marcus Aper, either by Quintilian or Pliny. It is supposed that
he was father of Marcus Flavius Aper, who was substituted consul
A.U.C. 883, A.D. 130. His oratorical character, and that of
Secundus, as we find them drawn in this section, are not unlike
what we are told by Cicero of Crassus and Antonius. Crassus, he
says, was not willing to be thought destitute of literature, but he
wished to have it said of him, that he despised it, and preferred
the good sense of the Romans to the refinements of Greece.
Antonius, on the other hand, was of opinion that his fame would
rise to greater magnitude, if he was considered as a man wholly
illiterate, and void of education. In this manner they both
expected to increase their popularity; the former by despising the
Greeks, and the latter by not knowing them. Fuit hoc in utroque
eorum, ut Crassus non tam existimari vellet non didicisse, quam
illa despicere, et nostrorum hominum in omni genere prudentiam
Græcis anteferre. Antonius autem probabiliorem populo
orationem fore censebat suam, si omninò didicisse nunquam
putaretur; atque ita se uterque graviorem fore, si alter
contemnere, alter ne nosse quidem Græcos videretur.
Cicero De Orat. lib. ii. cap. 1.
 Quintilian makes
honourable mention of Julius Secundus, who, if he had not been
prematurely cut off, would have transmitted his name to posterity
among the most celebrated orators. He would have added, and he was
daily doing it, whatever was requisite to complete his oratorical
genius; and all that could be desired, was more vigour in argument,
and more attention to matter and sentiment, than to the choice of
words. But he died too soon, and his fame was, in some degree,
intercepted. He has, notwithstanding, left a considerable name. His
diction was rich and copious; he explained every thing with grace
and elegance; his periods flowed with a suavity that charmed his
audience; his language, when metaphorical, was bold, yet accurate;
and, if he hazarded an unusual phrase, he was justified by the
energy with which his meaning was conveyed. Julio Secundo, si
longior contigisset ætas, clarissimum profecto nomen oratoris
apud posteros foret. Adjecisset enim, atque adjiciebat,
cæteris virtutibus suis, quod desiderari potest; id est
autem, ut esset multo magis pugnax, et sæpius ad curam rerum
ab elocutione respiceret. Cæterum interceptus quoque magnum
sibi vindicat locum. Ea est facundia, tanta in explicando, quod
velit, gratia; tam candidum, et lene, et speciosum dicendi genus;
tanta verborum, etiam quæ assumpta sunt, proprietas; tanta in
quibusdam, ex periculo petitis, significantia. Quintil. lib. x.
s. 1. It is remarkable, that Quintilian, in his list of Roman
orators, has neither mentioned Maternus, nor Marcus Aper. The
Dialogue, for that reason, seems to be improperly ascribed to him:
men who figure so much in the enquiry concerning oratory, would not
have been omitted by the critic who thought their conversation
worth recording.

Section III.
 Thyestes was a
common and popular subject of ancient tragedy.
Indignatur item privatis, et
prope socco
Dignis carminibus narrari
cœna Thyestæ.
HORAT. ARS POET. ver.
90.
 It was the
custom of the colonies and municipal towns, to pay their court to
some great orator at Rome, in order to obtain his patronage,
whenever they should have occasion to apply to the senate for a
redress of grievances.
 Domitius was
another subject of tragedy, taken from the Roman story. Who he was,
does not clearly appear. Brotier thinks it was Domitius, the avowed
enemy of Julius Cæsar, who moved in the senate for a law to
recall that general from the command of the army in Gaul, and,
afterwards, on the breaking out of the civil war, fell bravely at
the battle of Pharsalia. See Suetonius, Life of Nero, section 2.
Such a character might furnish the subject of a tragedy. The Roman
poets were in the habit of enriching their drama with domestic
occurrences, and the practice was applauded by Horace.
Nec minimum meruêre decus,
vestigia Græca
Ausi deserere, et celebrare
domestica facta.
ARS POET. ver. 286.

No path to fame our poets left
untried;
Nor small their merit, when with
conscious pride
They scorn'd to take from Greece
the storied theme,
But dar'd to sing their own
domestic fame.
FRANCIS'S HORACE.

Section V.
 There were at Rome
several eminent men of the name of Bassus. With regard to the
person here called Saleius Bassus, the commentators have not been
able to glean much information. Some have contended that it was to
him Persius addressed his sixth satire:
Admovit jam bruma foco te, Basse,
Sabino.
But if we may believe the old scholiast, his name was
CÆSIUS BASSUS, a much admired lyric poet, who was living on
his own farm, at the time when Mount Vesuvius discharged its
torrents of fire, and made the country round a scene of desolation.
The poet and his house were overwhelmed by the eruption of the
lava, which happened A.U. 832, in the reign of Titus. Quintilian
says of him (b. x. chap. 1.), that if after Horace any poet
deserves to be mentioned, Cæsius Bassus was the man. Si
quem adjicere velis, is erit Cæsius Bassus. Saleius
Bassus is mentioned by Juvenal as an eminent poet in distress:
——At Serrano tenuique
Saleio
Gloria quantalibet quid erit, si
gloria tantum est?
SAT. vii. ver. 80.

But to poor Bassus what avails a
name,
To starve on compliments and
empty fame!
DRYDEN'S JUVENAL.
Quintilian says, he possessed a poetic genius, but so warm and
vehement, that, even in an advanced age, his spirit was not under
the control of sober judgement. Vehemens et poeticum ingenium
SALEII BASSI fuit; nec ipsum senectute maturum. This passage
affords an insuperable argument against Lipsius, and the rest of
the critics who named Quintilian as a candidate for the honour of
this elegant composition. Can it be imagined that a writer of fair
integrity, would in his great work speak of Bassus as he deserved,
and in the Dialogue overrate him beyond all proportion? Duplicity
was not a part of Quintilian's character.
 Tacitus, it may be
presumed with good reason, was a diligent reader of Cicero, Livy,
Sallust, and Seneca. He has, in various parts of his works,
coincidences of sentiment and diction, that plainly shew the source
from which they sprung. In the present case, when he calls
eloquence a buckler to protect yourself, and a weapon to annoy your
adversary, can anyone doubt but he had his eye on the following
sentence in Cicero de Oratore? Quid autem tam
necessarium, quam tenere semper arma, quibus vel tectus ipse esse
possis, vel provocare integros, et te ulcisci lacessitus?
 Eprius Marcellus is
often a conspicuous figure in the Annals and the History of
Tacitus. To a bad heart he united the gift of eloquence. In the
Annals, b. xvi. s. 28, he makes a vehement speech against
Pætus Thrasea, and afterwards wrought the destruction of that
excellent man. For that exploit, he was attacked, in the beginning
of Vespasian's reign, by Helvidius Priscus. In the History (book
iv. s. 7 and 8) we see them both engaged in a violent contention.
In the following year (823), Helvidius in the senate opened an
accusation in form; but Marcellus, by using his eloquence as his
buckler and his offensive weapon, was able to ward off the blow. He
rose from his seat, and, "I leave you," he said, "I leave you to
give the law to the senate: reign, if you will, even in the
presence of the prince." See Hist. iv. s. 43. See also, Life of
Agricola, s. 11. notes a and b.

Section VI.
 To be rich and
have no issue, gave to the person so circumstanced the highest
consequence at Rome. All ranks of men paid their court to him. To
discourage a life of celibacy, and promote population, Augustus
passed a law, called Papia Poppæa, whereby bachelors
were subjected to penalties. Hence the compliment paid by Horace to
his patron:
Diva producas sobolem,
patrumque
Prosperes decreta super
jugandis
Fæminis, prolisque
novæ feraci
Lege marita.
CARMEN SÆCULARE.

Bring the springing birth to
light,
And with ev'ry genial
grace
Prolific of an endless
race,
Oh! crown our vows, and bless the
nuptial rite.
FRANCIS'S HORACE.
But marriage was not brought into fashion. In proportion to the
rapid degeneracy of the manners under the emperors, celibacy grew
into respect; insomuch, that we find (Annals xii. s. 52) a man too
strong for his prosecutors, because he was rich, old, and
childless. Valuitque pecuniosâ orbitate et
senectâ.
 The faculty of
speaking on a sudden question, with unpremeditated eloquence,
Quintilian says, is the reward of study and diligent application.
The speech, composed at leisure, will often want the warmth and
energy, which accompany the rapid emotions of the mind. The
passions, when roused and animated, and the images which present
themselves in a glow of enthusiasm, are the inspirers of true
eloquence. Composition has not always this happy effect; the
process is slow; languor is apt to succeed; the passions subside,
and the spirit of the discourse evaporates. Maximus vero
studiorum fructus est, et velut præmium quoddam amplissimum
longi laboris, ex tempore dicendi facultas. Pectus est enim quod
disertos facit, et vis mentis. Nam benè concepti affectus,
et recentes rerum imagines, continuo impetu feruntur, quæ
nonnunquam morâ stili refrigescunt, et dilatæ won
revertuntur. Quintilian. lib. x. cap. 7.

Section VII.
 The translation
is not quite accurate in this place. The original says, when I
obtained the laticlave, and the English calls it the
manly gown, which, it must be admitted, is not the exact
sense. The toga virilis, or the manly gown, was
assumed, when the youth came to man's estate, or the age of
seventeen years. On that occasion the friends of the young man
conducted him to the forum (or sometimes to the capitol),
and there invested him with the new gown. This was called dies
tirocinii; the day on which he commenced a tiro, or a
candidate for preferment in the army. The laticlave, was an
additional honour often granted at the same time. The sons of
senators and patricians were entitled to that distinction, as a
matter of right: but the young men, descended from such as were not
patricians, did not wear the laticlave, till they entered
into the service of the commonwealth, and undertook the functions
of the civil magistracy. Augustus Cæsar changed that custom.
He gave leave to the sons of senators, in general, to assume the
laticlave presently after the time of putting on the toga
virilis, though they were not capable of civil honours. The
emperors who succeeded, allowed the same privilege, as a favour to
illustrious families. Ovid speaks of himself and his brother
assuming the manly gown and the laticlave at the same
time:
Interea, tacito passu labentibus
annis,
Liberior fratri sumpta mihique
toga;
Induiturque humeris cum lato
purpura clavo.
Pliny the younger shews, that the laticlave was a favour
granted by the emperor on particular occasions. He says, he applied
for his friend, and succeeded: Ego Sexto latumclavum a
Cæsare nostro impetravi. Lib. ii. epist. 9. The
latusclavus was a robe worn by consuls, prætors,
generals in triumph, and senators, who were called
laticlavii. Their sons were admitted to the same honour; but
the emperors had a power to bestow this garment of distinction, and
all privileges belonging to it, upon such as they thought worthy of
that honour. This is what Marcus Aper says, in the Dialogue, that
he obtained; and, when the translation mentions the manly
gown, the expression falls short of the speaker's idea. Dacier
has given an account of the laticlave, which has been well
received by the learned. He tells us, that whatever was made to be
put on another thing, was called clavus, not because it had
any resemblance to a nail, but because it was made an adjunct to
another subject. In fact, the clavi were purple galloons,
with which the Romans bordered the fore part of the tunic, on both
sides, and when drawn close together, they formed an ornament in
the middle of the vestment. It was, for that reason, called by the
Greeks, [Greek: mesoporphuron]. The broad galloons made the
laticlave, and the narrow the angusticlave. The
laticlave, Dacier adds, is not to be confounded with the
prætexta. The latter was, at first, appropriated to
the magistrates, and the sacerdotal order; but, in time, was
extended to the sons of eminent families, to be worn as a mark of
distinction, till the age of seventeen, when it was laid aside for
the manly gown. See Dacier's Horace, lib. i. sat. 5;
and see Kennet's Roman Antiquities, p. 306.
 Marcus Aper,
Julius Secundus, and Curiatius Maternus, according to Brotier and
others, were natives of Gaul. Aper (section x.) mentions the Gauls
as their common countrymen: Ne quid de Gallis nostris
loquamur. If that was the fact, a new man at Rome would
have difficulties to surmount. Ammianus Marcellinus (a Latin
historian of the fourth century) says, that at Rome the people
despised every thing that did not grow before their eyes within the
walls of the city, except the rich who had no children; and the
veneration paid to such as had no heirs was altogether incredible.
Vile esse quidquid extra urbis pomærium nascitur,
æstimant; nec credi potest qua obsequiorum diversitate
coluntur homines sine liberis Romæ. Lib. xiv. s. 5. In
such a city a young man and a stranger could not expect to be
favoured.
 All causes of a
private nature were heard before the centumviri. Three were
chosen out of every tribe, and the tribes amounted to five and
thirty, so that in fact 105 were chosen; but, for the sake of a
round number, they were called CENTUMVIRI. The causes that were
heard before that jurisdiction are enumerated by Cicero, De
Orat. lib. i. s. 38.
 The translation
says, the wills and codicils of the rich; but it is by no
means certain that those words convey the meaning of the text,
which simply says, nec codicillis datur. After due enquiry,
it appears that codicillus was used by the Latin authors,
for what we now call the letters patent of a prince.
Codicils, in the modern sense of the word, implying a supplement to
a will, were unknown to the intent Roman law. The Twelve Tables
mention testaments only. Codicils, in aid to wills, were first
introduced in the time of Augustus; but, whatever their operation
was, legacies granted by those additional writings were for some
time of no validity. To confirm this, we are told that the daughter
of Lentulus discharged certain legacies, which, being given by
codicil, she was not bound to pay. In time, however, codicils, as
an addition made by the testator to his will, grew into use, and
the legacies thereby granted were confirmed. This might be the case
in the sixth year of Vespasian, when the Dialogue passed between
the parties; but it is, notwithstanding, highly probable, that the
word codicilli means, in the passage before us, the
letters patent of the prince. It is used in that sense by
Suetonius, who relates, that Tiberius, after passing a night and
two days in revelling with Pomponius Flaccus and Lucius Piso,
granted to the former the province of Syria, and made the latter
prefect of the city; declaring them, in the patents,
pleasant companions, and the friends of all hours.
Codicillis quoque jucundissimos et omnium horarum amicos
professus. Suet. in Tib. s. 42.
 The common
people are called, in the original, tunicatus populus; that
class of men, who wore the tunic, and not the toga,
or the Roman gown. The tunica, or close coat, was the
common garment worn within doors, and abroad, under the
toga. Kennet says, the proletarii, the capite
censi, and the rest of the dregs of the city, could not afford
to wear the toga, and therefore went in their tunics;
whence Horace says (lib. i. epist. 7).
Vilia vendentem tunicato scruta
popello.
The TOGA, however, was the peculiar dress of the Roman people.
VIRGIL distinguishes his countrymen by their mode of apparel:
Romanos rerum dominos, gentemque
togatam.
But, though this was the Roman habit, the lower citizens were
obliged to appear abroad is their tunica, or close garment.
The love of praise is so eager a passion, that the public orator is
here represented as delighting in the applause of the rabble.
Persius, the satirist, has said the same thing:
Pulchrum est digito monstrari, et
dicier. HIC EST.

Section VIII.
 The
character of Eprius Marcellus has been already stated, section v.
note. Crispus Vibius is
mentioned as a man of weight and influence, Annals, book
xiv. s. 28. Quintilian has mentioned him to his advantage: he calls
him, book v. chap. 13, a man of agreeable and elegant talents,
vir ingenii jucundi et elegantis; and again, Vibius Crispus
was distinguished by the elegance of his composition, and the
sweetness of his manner; a man born to please, but fitter for
private suits, than for the importance of public causes. Et
VIBIUS CRISPUS, compositus, et jucundus, et delectationi natus;
privatis tamen causis, quam publicis, melior. Lib. x. cap.
1.
 Which of
these two men was born at Capua, and which at Vercellæ, is
not clearly expressed in the original. Eprius Marcellus, who has
been described of a prompt and daring spirit, ready to embark in
every mischief, and by his eloquence able to give colour to the
worst cause, must at this time have become a new man, since we find
him mentioned in this Dialogue with unbounded praise. He, it seems,
and Vibius Crispus were the favourites at Vespasian's court.
Vercellæ, now Verceil, was situated in the eastern
part of Piedmont. Capua, rendered famous by Hannibal, was a
city in Campania, always deemed the seat of pleasure.
 Vespasian is
said to have been what is uncommon among sovereign princes, a
patient hearer of truth. His attention to men of letters may be
considered as a proof of that assertion. The younger Pliny tells
us, that his uncle, the author of the Natural History, used to
visit Vespasian before day-light, and gained admittance to the
emperor, who devoted his nights to study. Ante lucem ibat ad
Vespasianum imperatorem: nam ille quoque noctibus utebatur.
Lib. iii. epist. 5.

Section IX.
 Agamemnon and
Jason were two favourite dramatic subjects with the Roman poets.
After their example, the moderns seem to have been enamoured with
those two Grecian heroes. Racine has displayed the former, in his
tragedy of Iphigenia, and the late Mr. Thomson in a performance of
great merit, entitled Agamemnon. Corneille, and, the late Mr.
Glover, thought Jason and Medea worthy of their talents.
 Saleius Bassus has
been already mentioned, s. v. note. It may
be added in this place, that the critics of his time concurred in
giving him the warmest praise, not only as a good and excellent
man, but also as an eminent and admirable poet. He was descended
from a family of distinction, but was poor and often distressed.
Whether he or Cæsius Bassus was the friend of Persius, is not
perfectly clear. Be the fact as it may, the satirist describes a
fine poet, and his verses were applicable to either of them:
Jamne lyrâ, et tetrico
vivunt tibi pectine chordæ?
Mire opifex numeris veterum
primordia rerum,
Atque marem strepitum fidis
intendisse Latinæ;
Mox juvenes agitare jocos, et
pollice honesto
Egregios lusisse
senes.
PERSIUS, sat. vi.

 Before the
invention of printing, copies were not easily multiplied. Authors
were eager to enjoy their fame, and the pen of the transcriber was
slow and tedious. Public rehearsals were the road to fame. But an
audience was to be drawn together by interest, by solicitation, and
public advertisements. Pliny, in one of his letters, has given a
lively description of the difficulties which the author had to
surmount. This year, he says, has produced poets in great
abundance. Scarce a day has passed in the month of April, without
the recital of a poem. But the greater part of the audience comes
with reluctance; they loiter in the lobbies, and there enter into
idle chat, occasionally desiring to know, whether the poet is in
his pulpit? has he begun? is his preface over? has he almost
finished? They condescended, at last, to enter the room; they
looked round with an air of indifference, and soon retired, some by
stealth, and others with open contempt. Hence the greater praise is
due to those authors, who do not suffer their genius to droop, but,
on the contrary, amidst the most discouraging circumstances, still
persist to cultivate the liberal arts. Pliny adds, that he himself
attended all the public readings, and, for that purpose, staid
longer in the city than was usual with him. Being, at length,
released, he intended, in his rural retreat, to finish a work of
his own, but not to read it in public, lest he should be thought to
claim a return of the civility which he had shewn to others. He was
a bearer, and not a creditor. The favour conferred, if redemanded,
ceases to be a favour. Magnum proventum poetarum annus hic
attulit. Toto mense Aprili nullus fere dies, quo non recitaret
aliquis. Tametsi ad audiendum pigre coitur. Plerique in stationibus
sedent, tempusque audiendis fabulis conterunt, ac subinde sibi
nuntiari jubent, an jam recitator intraverit, an dixerit
præfationem, an ex magná parte evolverit librum? Tum
demum, ac tune quoque lentè, cunctanterque veniunt, nec
tamen remanent, sed ante finem recedunt; alii dissimulanter, ac
furtim, alii, simpliciter, ac liberè. Sed tanto magis
laudandi probandique sunt, quos a scribendi recitandique studio
hæc auditorum vel desidia, vel superbia non retardat. Equidem
prope nemini defui: his ex causis longius, quam destinaveram,
tempus in urbe consumpsi. Possum jam repetere secessum, et scribere
aliquid, quod non recitem, ne videar, quorum recitationibus affui,
non auditor fuisse, sed creditor. Nam, ut in cæteris rebus,
ita in audiendi officio, perit gratia si reposcatur. Pliny,
lib. i. ep. 13. Such was the state of literature under the worst of
the emperors. The Augustan age was over. In the reigns of Tiberius
and Caligula learning drooped, but in some degree revived under the
dull and stupid Claudius. Pliny, in the letter above cited, says of
that emperor, that, one day hearing a noise in his palace, he
enquired what was the cause, and, being informed that Nonianus was
reciting in public, went immediately to the place, and became one
of the audience. After that time letters met with no encouragement
from the great. Lord Shaftesbury says, he cannot but wonder how the
Romans, after the extinction of the Cæsarean and
Claudian family, and a short interval of princes raised and
destroyed with much disorder and public ruin, were able to regain
their perishing dominion, and retrieve their sinking state, by an
after-race of wise and able princes, successively adopted, and
taken from a private state to rule the empire of the world. They
were men, who not only possessed the military virtues, and
supported that sort of discipline in the highest degree; but as
they sought the interest of the world, they did what was in their
power to restore liberty, and raise again the perishing arts, and
the decayed virtue of mankind. But the season was past:
barbarity and gothicism were already entered into the
arts, ere the savages made an impression on the empire. See
Advice to an Author, part. ii. s. 1. The gothicism,
hinted at by Shaftesbury, appears manifestly in the wretched
situation to which the best authors were reduced. The poets who
could not hope to procure an audience, haunted the baths and public
walks, in order to fasten on their friends, and, at any rate,
obtain a hearing for their works. Juvenal says, the plantations and
marble columns of Julius Fronto resounded with the vociferation of
reciting poets:
Frontonis platani convulsaque
marmora clamant
Semper, et assiduo ruptæ
lectore columnæ.
Expectes eadem a summo minimoque
poetâ.
SAT. i. ver. 12.
The same author observes, that the poet, who aspired to literary
fame, might borrow an house for the purpose of a public reading;
and the great man who accommodated the writer, might arrange his
friends and freedmen on the back seats, with direction not to be
sparing of their applause; but still a stage or pulpit, with
convenient benches, was to be procured, and that expence the
patrons of letters would not supply.
——At si dulcedine
famæ
Contentus recites, Maculonus
commodat ædes.
Scit dare libertos extremâ
in parte sedentes
Ordinis, et magnas comitum
disponere voces.
Nemo dabit procerum, quanti
subsellia constent.
SAT. vii. ver. 39.
Statius, in Juvenal's time, was a favourite poet. If he
announced a reading, his auditors went in crowds. He delighted all
degrees and ranks of men; but, when the hour of applause was over,
the author was obliged to sell a tragedy to Paris, the famous
actor, in order to procure a dinner,
Curritur ad vocem jucundam, et
carmen amicæ?
Thebaidos, lætam fecit cum
Statius urbem?
Promisitque diem: tantâ
dulcedine vulgi
Auditur; sed cum fregit subsellia
versu,
Esurit, intactam Paridi nisi
vendit Agaven.
SAT. vii. ver. 82.
This was the hard lot of poetry, and this the state of public
reading, which Aper describes to his friend Maternus.

Section X.
 Horace has the same
observation:
——Mediocribus esse
poetis
Non Dii, non homines, non
concessere columnæ.
ART OF POETRY, ver.
372.

But God and man, and letter'd
post denies,
That poets ever are of middling
size.
FRANCIS'S HORACE.
 Notwithstanding all
that is said, in this Dialogue, of Saleius Bassus, it does not
appear, in the judgement of Quintilian, that he was a poet whose
fame could extend itself to the distant provinces. Perfection in
the kind is necessary. Livy, the historian, was at the head of his
profession. In consequence of his vast reputation, we know from
Pliny, the consul, that a native of the city of Cadiz was so struck
with the character of that great writer, that he made a journey to
Rome, with no other intent than to see that celebrated genius; and
having gratified his curiosity, without staying to view the wonders
of that magnificent city, returned home perfectly satisfied.
Nunquamne legisti Gaditanum quemdam Titi Livii nomine
gloriâque commotum, ad visendum eum ab ultimo terrarum orbe
venisse; statimque, ut viderat, abiisse? Lib. ii. epist. 3.
 In Homer and Virgil,
as well as in the dramatic poets of the first order, we frequently
have passages of real eloquence, with the difference which
Quintilian mentions: the poet, he says, is a slave to the measure
of his verse; and, not being able at all times to make use of the
true and proper word, he is obliged to quit the natural and easy
way of expression, and avail himself of new modes and turns of
phraseology, such as tropes, and metaphors, with the liberty of
transposing words, and lengthening or shortening syllables as he
sees occasion. Quod alligati ad certam pedum necessitatem non
semper propriis uti possint, sed depulsi a rectâ viâ,
necessario ad quædam diverticula confugiant; nec mutare
quædam modo verba, sed extendere, corripere, convertere,
dividere cogantur. Quint, lib. x. cap. 1. The speaker in the
Dialogue is aware of this distinction, and, subject to it, the
various branches of poetry are with him so many different modes of
eloquence.
 The original has, the
citadel of eloquence, which calls to mind an admired passage in
Lucretius:
Sed nil dulcius est bene quam
munita tenere
Edita doctrinâ sapientum
templa serena,
Despicere unde queas alios,
passimque videre
Errare, atque viam pallantes
quærere vitæ.
Lib. ii. ver. 7.
 It is a fact well
known, that in Greece the most illustrious of both sexes thought it
honourable to exercise themselves in the exhibitions of the
theatre, and even to appear in the athletic games. Plutarch, it is
true, will have it, that all scenic arts were prohibited at Sparta
by the laws of Lycurgus; and yet Cornelius Nepos assures us, that
no Lacedæmonian matron, however high her quality, was ashamed
to act for hire on the public stage. He adds, that throughout
Greece, it was deemed the highest honour to obtain the prize in the
Olympic games, and no man blushed to be a performer in plays and
pantomimes, and give himself a spectacle to the people. Nulla
Lacedæmoni tam est nobilis vidua, quæ non in scenam eat
mercede conducta. Magnis in laudibus totâ fuit
Græciâ, victorem Olympiæ citari. In scenam vero
prodire, et populo esse spectaculo nemini in iisdem gentibus fuit
turpitudini. Cor. Nep. in Præfat. It appears,
however, from a story told by Ælian and cited by Shaftesbury,
Advice to an Author, part ii. s. 3, that the Greek women
were by law excluded from the Olympic games. Whoever was found to
transgress, or even to cross the river Alpheus, during the
celebration of that great spectacle, was liable to be thrown from a
rock. The consequence was, that not one female was detected, except
Callipatria, or, as others called her,
Pherenicè. This woman, disguised in the habit of a
teacher of gymnastic exercises, introduced her son,
Pisidorus, to contend for the victor's prize. Her son
succeeded. Transported with joy at a sight so glorious, the mother
overleaped the fence, which enclosed the magistrates, and, in the
violence of that exertion, let fall her garment. She was, by
consequence, known to be a woman, but absolved from all
criminality. For that mild and equitable sentence, she was indebted
to the merit of her father, her brothers, and her son, who all
obtained the victor's crown. The incident, however, gave birth to a
new law, whereby it was enacted, that the masters of the gymnastic
art should, for the future, come naked to the Olympic games.
Ælian lib. x. cap. 1; and see Pausanias, lib.
v. cap. 6.
 Nicostratus is
praised by Pausanias (lib. v. cap. 20), as a great master of the
athletic arts. Quintilian has also recorded his prowess.
"Nicostratus, whom in our youth we saw advanced in years, would
instruct his pupil in every branch of his art, and make him, what
he was himself, an invincible champion. Invincible he was, since,
on one and the same day, he entered the lists as a wrestler and a
boxer, and was proclaimed conqueror in both." Ac si fuerit qui
docebitur, ille, quem adolescentes vidimus, Nicostratus, omnibus in
eo docendi partibus similiter uteretur; efficietque illum, qualis
hic fuit, luctando pugnandoque quorum utroque in certamine iisdem
diebus coronabatur invictum. Quint. lib, ii. cap. 8.

Section XI.
 Nero's ambition to
excel in poetry was not only ridiculous, but, at the same time,
destructive to Lucan, and almost all the good authors of the age.
See Annals, b. xv. According to the old scholiast on the
Satires of Persius, the following verses were either written by
Nero, or made in imitation of that emperor's style:
Torva Mimalloneis implerunt
cornua bombis,
Et raptum vitulo caput ablatura
superbo
Bassaris, et lyncem Mænas
flexura corymbis,
Evion ingeminat: reparabilis
adsonat echo.
The affectation of rhyme, which many ages afterwards was the
essential part of monkish verse, the tumour of the words, and the
wretched penury of thought, may be imputed to a frivolous prince,
who studied his art of poetry in the manner described by Tacitus,
Annals, b. xiv. s. 16. And yet it may be a question, whether
the satirist would have the hardiness to insert the very words of
an imperial poet, armed with despotic power. A burlesque imitation
would answer the purpose; and it may be inferred from another
passage in the same poem, that Persius was content to ridicule the
mode of versification then in vogue at court.
Claudere sic versum didicit;
Berecynthius Attin,
Et qui cæruleum dirimebat
Nerea Delphin.
Sic costam longo subduximus
Apennino.
 Vatinius was a
favourite at the court of Nero. Tacitus calls him the spawn of a
cook's-shop and a tippling-house; sutrinæ et tabernæ
alumnus. He recommended himself to the favour of the prince by
his scurrility and vulgar humour. Being, by those arts, raised
above himself, he became the declared enemy of all good men, and
acted a distinguished part among the vilest instruments of that
pernicious court. See his character, Annals xv. s. 34. When
an illiberal and low buffoon basks in the sunshine of a court, and
enjoys exorbitant power, the cause of literature can have nothing
to expect. The liberal arts must, by consequence, be degraded by a
corrupt taste, and learning will be left to run wild and grow to
seed.

Section XII.
 That poetry
requires a retreat from the bustle of the world, has been so often
repeated, that it is now considered as a truth, from which there
can be no appeal. Milton, it is true, wrote his Paradise Lost in a
small house near Bunhill Fields; and Dryden courted the muse
in the hurry and dissipation of a town life. But neither of them
fixed his residence by choice. Pope grew immortal on the banks of
the Thames. But though the country seems to be the seat of
contemplation, two great writers have been in opposite opinions.
Cicero says, woods and groves, and rivers winding through the
meadows, and the refreshing breeze, with the melody of birds, may
have their attraction; but they rather relax the mind into
indolence, than rouse our attention, or give vigour to our
faculties. Sylvarum amænitas, et præterlabentia
flumina, et inspirantes ramis arborum auræ, volucrumque
cantus, et ipsa late circumspiciendi libertas ad se trahunt; at
mihi remittere potius voluptas ista videtur cogitationem, quam
intendere. De Orat. lib. ii. This, perhaps, may be true as
applied to the public orator, whose scene of action lay in the
forum or the senate. Pliny, on the other hand, says to his friend
Tacitus, there is something in the solemnity of venerable woods,
and the awful silence which prevails in those places, that strongly
disposes us to study and contemplation. For the future, therefore,
whenever you hunt, take along with you your pen and paper, as well
as your basket and bottle; for you will find the mountains not more
inhabited by Diana, than by Minerva. Jam undique sylvæ, et
solitudo, ipsumque illud silentium, quod venationi datur, magna
cogitationis incitamenta sunt. Proinde, cum, venabere, licebit,
auctore me, ut panarium et lagunculam, sic etiam pugillares feras.
Experiaris non Dianam magis montibus quam Minervam inerrare.
Lib. i. epist. 6. Between these two different opinions, a true poet
may be allowed to decide. Horace describes the noise and tumult of
a city life, and then says,
Scriptorum chorus omnis amat
nemus, et fugit urbes.
Epist. lib. ii. ep. ii. ver.
77.

Alas! to grottos and to groves we
run,
To ease and silence, ev'ry muse's
son.
POPE.
 The expression
in the original is full and expressive, lucrosæ hujus et
sanguinantis eloquentiæ; that gainful and blood-thirsty
eloquence. The immoderate wealth acquired by Eprius Marcellus has
been mentioned in this Dialogue, section 8. Pliny gives us an idea
of the vast acquisitions gained by Regulus, the notorious informer.
From a state of indigence, he rose, by a train of villainous
actions, to such immense riches, that he once consulted the omens,
to know how soon he should be worth sixty millions of sesterces,
and found them so favourable, that he had no doubt of being worth
double that sum. Aspice Regulum, qui ex paupere et tenui ad
tantas opes per flagitia processit, ut ipse mihi dixerit, cum
consuleret, quam cito sestertium sexcennies impleturus esset,
invenisse se exta duplicata, quibus portendi millies et ducenties
habiturum. Lib. ii. ep. 20. In another epistle the same author
relates, that Regulus, having lost his son, was visited upon that
occasion by multitudes of people, who all in secret detested him,
yet paid their court with as much assiduity as if they esteemed and
loved him. They retaliated upon this man his own insidious arts: to
gain the friendship of Regulus, they played the game of Regulus
himself. He, in the mean time, dwells in his villa on the other
side of the Tiber, where he has covered a large tract of ground
with magnificent porticos, and lined the banks of the river with
elegant statues; profuse, with all his avarice, and, in the depth
of infamy, proud and vain-glorious. Convenitur ad eum mirâ
celebritate: cuncti detestantur, oderunt; et, quasi probent, quasi
diligant, cursant, frequentant, utque breviter, quod sentio,
enunciem, in Regulo demerendo, Regulum imitantur. Tenet se trans
Tyberim in hortis, in quibus latissimum solum porticibus immensis,
ripam statuis suis occupavit; ut est, in summâ avaritia
sumptuosus, in summâ infamiâ gloriosus. Lib. iv.
ep. 2. All this splendour, in which Regulus lived, was the fruit of
a gainful and blood-thirsty eloquence; if that may be called
eloquence, which Pliny says was nothing more than a crazed
imagination; nihil præter ingenium insanum. Lib. iv.
ep. 7.
 Orpheus, in
poetic story, was the son of Calliope, and Linus boasted of Apollo
for his father.
——Nec Thracius
Orpheus,
Nec Linus; huic mater quamvis,
atque huic pater adsit,
Orphei Calliopea, Lino formosus
Apollo.
VIRG. ECL. iv. ver.
55.

Not Orpheus' self, nor Linus,
should exceed
My lofty lays, or gain the poet's
meed,
Though Phœbus, though
Calliope inspire,
And one the mother aid, and one
the sire.
WHARTON'S VIRGIL.
Orpheus embarked in the Argonautic expedition. His history of
it, together with his hymns, is still extant; but whether genuine,
is much doubted.
 Lysias, the
celebrated orator, was a native of Syracuse, the chief town in
Sicily. He lived about four hundred years before the Christian
æra. Cicero says, that he did not addict himself to the
practice of the bar; but his compositions were so judicious, so
pure and elegant, that you might venture to pronounce him a perfect
orator. Tum fuit Lysias, ipse quidem in causis forensibus non
versatus sed egregiè subtilis scriptor, atque elegans, quem
jam prope audeas oratorem perfectum dicere. Cicero De Claris
Orat. s. 35. Quintilian gives the same opinion. Lysias, he
says, preceded Demosthenes: he is acute and elegant, and if to
teach the art of speaking were the only business of an orator,
nothing more perfect can be found. He has no redundancy, nothing
superfluous, nothing too refined, or foreign to his purpose: his
style is flowing, but more like a pure fountain, than a noble
river. His ætate Lysias major, subtilis atque elegans, et
quo nihil, si oratori satis sit docere, quæras perfectius.
Nihil enim est inane, nihil arcessitum; puro tamen fonti, quam
magno flumini propior. Quint, lib. x. cap. 1. A considerable
number of his orations is still extant, all written with exquisite
taste and inexpressible sweetness. See a very pleasing translation
by Dr. Gillies.
Hyperides flourished at Athens in the time of Demosthenes,
Æschynes, Lycurgus, and other famous orators. That age, says
Cicero, poured forth a torrent of eloquence, of the best and purest
kind, without the false glitter of affected ornament, in a style of
noble simplicity, which lasted to the end of that period. Huic
Hyperides proximus, et Æschynes fuit, et Lycurgus, aliique
plures. Hæc enim ætas effudit hanc copiam; et, ut
opinio mea fert, succus ille et sanguis incorruptus usque ad hanc
ætatem oratorum fuit, in qua naturalis inesset, non fucatus
nitor. De Claris Orat. s. 36. Quintilian allows to Hyperides a
keen discernment, and great sweetness of style; but he pronounces
him an orator designed by nature to shine in causes of no great
moment. Dulcis in primis et acutus Hyperides; sed minoribus
causis, ut non dixerim utilior, magis par. Lib. x. cap. 1.
Whatever might be the case when this Dialogue happened, it is
certain, at present, that the fame of Sophocles and Euripides has
eclipsed the two Greek orators.
 For an account
of Asinius Pollio and Corvinus Messala, see Annals, b. xi.
s. 6. Quintilian (b. xii. chap. 10) commends the diligence of
Pollio, and the dignity of Messala. In another part of his
Institutes, he praises the invention, the judgement, and spirit of
Pollio, but at the same time says, he fell so short of the suavity
and splendour of Cicero, that he might well pass for an orator of a
former age. He adds, that Messala was natural and elegant: the
grandeur of his style seemed to announce the nobility of his birth;
but still he wanted force and energy. Malta in Asinio Pollione
inventio, summa diligentia, adeo ut quibusdam etiam nimia videatur;
et consilii et animi satis; a nitore et jucunditate Ciceronis ita
longe abest, ut videri possit sæculo prior. At Messala
nitidus et candidus, et quodammodo præ se ferens in dicendo
nobilitatem suam, viribus minor. Quintilian, lib. x. cap. 1.
The two great poets of the Augustan age have transmitted the name
of Asinius Pollio to the latest posterity. Virgil has celebrated
him as a poet, and a commander of armies, in the Illyrican and
Dalmatic wars.
Tu mihi, seu magni superas jam
saxa Timavi,
Sive oram Illyrici legis
æquoris; en erit unquam
Ille dies, mihi cum liceat tua
dicere facta?
En erit, ut liceat totum mihi
ferre per orbem/span>
Sola Sophocleo tua carmina digna
cothurno?
ECLOG. viii. ver. 6.

O Pollio! leading thy victorious
bands
O'er deep Timavus, or Illyria's
sands;
O when thy glorious deeds shall I
rehearse?
When tell the world how matchless
is thy verse,
Worthy the lofty stage of
laurell'd Greece,
Great rival of majestic
Sophocles!
WHARTON'S VIRGIL.
Horace has added the orator and the statesman:
Paulum severæ musa
tragediæ
Desit theatris; mox, ubi
publicas
Res ordinaris, grande
munus
Cecropio repetes
cothurno,
Insigne mœstis
præsidium reis,
Et consulenti, Pollio,
curiæ,
Cui laurus æternos
honores
Dalmatico peperit
triumpho.
Lib. ii. ode 1.

Retard a while thy glowing
vein,
Nor swell the solemn tragic
scene;
And when thy sage, thy patriot
cares
Have form'd the train of Rome's
affairs,
With lofty rapture reinflam'd,
diffuse
Heroic thoughts, and wake the
buskin'd muse.
FRANCIS'S HORACE.
But after all, the question put by Maternus, is, can any of
their orations be compared to the Medea of Ovid, or the
Thyestes of Varius? Those two tragedies are so often praised
by the critics of antiquity, that the republic of letters has
reason to lament the loss. Quintilian says that the Medea of
Ovid was a specimen of genius, that shewed to what heights the poet
could have risen, had he thought fit rather to curb, than give the
rein to his imagination. Ovidii Medea videtur mihi ostendere
quantum vir ille præstare potuisset, si ingenio suo
temperare, quam indulgere maluisset. Lib. x. cap. 1.
The works of Varius, if we except a few fragments, are wholly
lost. Horace, in his journey to Brundusium, met him and Virgil, and
he mentions the incident with the rapture of a friend who loved
them both:
Plotius, et Varius
Sinuessæ, Virgiliusque
Occurrunt; animæ quales
neque candidiores
Terra tulit, neque queis me sit
devinctior alter.
Lib. i. sat. 5.
Horace also celebrates Varius as a poet of sublime genius. He
begins his Ode to Agrippa with the following lines:
Scriberis Vario fortis, et
hostium
Victor, Mæonii carminis
alite,
Quam rem cumque ferox navibus,
aut equis
Miles te duce
gesserit.
Lib. i. ode 6.

Varius, who soars on epic
wing,
Agrippa, shall thy conquests
sing,
Whate'er, inspir'd by thy
command,
The soldier dar'd on sea or
land.
FRANCIS'S HORACE.
A few fragments only of his works have reached posterity. His
tragedy of THYESTES is highly praised by Quintilian. That judicious
critic does not hesitate to say, that it may be opposed to the best
productions of the Greek stage. Jam Varii Thyestes cuilibet
Græcorum comparari potest. Varius lived in high favour at
the court of Augustus. After the death of Virgil, he was joined
with Plotinus and Tucca to revise the works of that
admirable poet. The Varus of Virgil, so often celebrated in
the Pastorals, was, notwithstanding what some of the commentators
have said, a different person from Varius, the author of
Thyestes.

Section XIII.
 The rural
delight of Virgil is described by himself:
Rura mihi et rigui placeant in
vallibus amnes;
Flumina amem, sylvasque
inglorius. O ubi campi,
Sperchiusque, et virginibus
bacchata Lacænis
Taygeta! O quis me gelidis sub
montibus Hæmi
Sistat, et ingenti ramorum
protegat umbrâ?
GEORGICA, lib. ii. ver.
485.

Me may the lowly vales and
woodland please,
And winding rivers, and
inglorious ease;
O that I wander'd by Sperchius'
flood,
Or on Taygetus' sacred top I
stood!
Who in cool Hæmus' vales my
limbs will lay,
And in the darkest thicket hide
from day?
WHARTON'S VIRG.
Besides this poetical retreat, which his imagination could
command at any time, Virgil had a real and delightful villa near
Naples, where he composed his Georgics, and wrote great part of the
Æneid.
 When
Augustus, or any eminent citizen, distinguished by his public
merit, appeared in the theatre, the people testified their joy by
acclamations, and unbounded applause. It is recorded by Horace,
that Mæcenas received that public honour.
——Datus in
theatro
Cum tibi plausus,
Care Mæcenas eques, ut
paterni
Fluminis ripæ, simul et
jocosa
Redderet laudes tibi
Vaticani
Montis imago.
Lib. i. ode 20.
When Virgil appeared, the audience paid the same compliment to a
man whose poetry adorned the Roman story. The letters from
Augustus, which are mentioned in this passage, have perished in the
ruins of ancient literature.
 Pomponius
Secundus was of consular rank, and an eminent writer of tragedy.
See Annals, b. ii. s. 13. His life was written by Pliny the
elder, whose nephew mentions the fact (book iii. epist. 5), and
says it was a tribute to friendship. Quintilian pronounces him the
best of all the dramatic poets whom he had seen; though the critics
whose judgement was matured by years, did not think him
sufficiently tragical. They admitted, however, that his erudition
was considerable, and the beauty of his composition surpassed all
his contemporaries. Eorum, quos viderim, longe princeps
Pomponius Secundus, quem senes parum tragicum putabant, eruditione
ac nitore præstare confitebantur. Lib. x. cap. 1.
 Quintilian
makes honourable mention of Domitius Afer. He says, when he was a
boy, the speeches of that orator for Volusenus Catulus were held in
high estimation. Et nobis pueris insignes pro Voluseno Catulo
Domitii Afri orationes ferebantur. Lib. x. cap 1. He adds, in
another part of the same chapter, that Domitius Afer and Julius
Africanus were, of all the orators who flourished in his time,
without comparison the best. But Afer stands distinguished by the
splendour of his diction, and the rhetorical art which he has
displayed in all his compositions. You would not scruple to rank
him among the ancient orators. Eorum quos viderim, Domitius Afer
et Julius Secundus longe præstantissimi. Verborum arte ille,
et toto genere dicendi præferendus, et quem in numero veterum
locare non timeas. Lib. x. cap. 1. Quintilian relates, that in
a conversation which he had when a young man, he asked Domitius
Afer what poet was, in his opinion, the next to Homer? The answer
was, Virgil is undoubtedly the second epic poet, but he is
nearer to the first than to the third. Utar enim verbis, quæ
ex Afro Domitio juvenis accepi; qui mihi interroganti, quem Homero
crederet maximè accedere: Secundus, inquit, est Virgilius,
propior tamen primo quam tertio. Lib. x. cap. 1. We may believe
that Quintilian thought highly of the man whose judgement he cites
as an authority. Quintilian, however, had in view nothing but the
talents of this celebrated orator. Tacitus, as a moral historian,
looked at the character of the man. He introduces him on the stage
of public business in the reign of Tiberius, and there represents
him in haste to advance himself by any kind of crime. Quoquo
facinore properus clare cere. He tells us, in the same passage
(Annals, b. iv. s. 52), that Tiberius pronounced him an
orator in his own right, suo jure disertum. Afer died in the
reign of Nero, A.U.C. 812, A.D. 59. In relating his death, Tacitus
observes, that he raised himself by his eloquence to the first
civil honours; but he does not dismiss him without condemning his
morals. Annals, b. xiv. s. 19.
 We find in
the Annals and the History of Tacitus, a number of instances to
justify the sentiments of Maternus. The rich found it necessary to
bequeath part of their substance to the prince, in order to secure
the remainder for their families. For the same reason, Agricola
made Domitian joint heir with his wife and daughter. Life of
Agricola, section 43.
 By a law of
the Twelve Tables, a crown, when fairly earned by virtue, was
placed on the head of the deceased, and another was ordered to be
given to his father. The spirit of the law, Cicero says, plainly
intimated, that commendation was a tribute due to departed virtue.
A crown was given not only to him who earned it, but also to the
father, who gave birth to distinguished merit. Illa jam
significatio est, laudis ornamenta ad mortuos pertinere, quod
coronam virtute partam, et ei qui peperisset, et ejus parenti, sine
fraude lex impositam esse jubet. De Legibus, lib. ii. s. 24.
This is the reward to which Maternus aspires; and, that being
granted, he desires, as Horace did before him, to waive the pomp of
funeral ceremonies.
Absint inani funere
næniæ,
Luctusque turpes et
querimoniæ;
Compesce clamorem, ac
sepulchri
Mitte supervacuos
honores.
Lib. ii. ode 20.

My friends, the funeral sorrow
spare,
The plaintive song, and tender
tear;
Nor let the voice of grief
profane,
With loud laments, the solemn
scene;
Nor o'er your poet's empty
urn
With useless idle sorrow
mourn.
FRANCIS'S HORACE.

Section XIV.
 Vipstanius
Messala commanded a legion, and, at the head of it, went over to
Vespasian's party in the contention with Vitellius. He was a man of
illustrious birth, and equal merit; the only one, says Tacitus, who
entered into that war from motives of virtue. Legioni Vipstanius
Messala præerat, claris majoribus, egregius ipse, et qui
solus ad id bellum artes bonas attulisset. Hist. lib. iii. s.
9. He was brother to Regulus, the vile informer, who has been
mentioned. See Life of Agricola, section 2. note a, and this tract,
s. xii. note. Messala, we are told by
Tacitus, before he had attained the senatorian age, acquired great
fame by pleading the cause of his profligate brother with
extraordinary eloquence, and family affection. Magnam eo die
pietatis eloquentiæque famam Vipstanius Messala adeptus est;
nondum senatoriâ ætate, ausus pro fratre Aquilio Regulo
deprecari. Hist. lib. iv. s. 42. Since Messala has now joined
the company, the Dialogue takes a new turn, and, by an easy and
natural transition, slides into the question concerning the causes
of the decline of eloquence.
 This is
probably the same Asiaticus, who, in the revolt of the provinces of
Gaul, fought on the side of VINDEX. See Hist. b. ii. s. 94.
Biography was, in that evil period, a tribute paid by the friends
of departed merit, and the only kind of writing, in which men could
dare faintly to utter a sentiment in favour of virtue and public
liberty.
 In the
declamations of Seneca and Quintilian, we have abundant examples of
these scholastic exercises, which Juvenal has placed in a
ridiculous light.
Et nos ergo manum ferulæ
subduximus, et nos
Consilium dedimus Syllæ,
privatus ut altum
Dormiret.
Sat. i. ver. 15.

Provok'd by these incorrigible
fools,
I left declaiming in pedantic
schools;
Where, with men-boys, I strove to
get renown,
Advising Sylla to a private
gown.
DRYDEN'S JUVENAL.

Section XV.
 The eloquence of
Cicero, and the eminent orators of that age, was preferred by all
men of sound judgement to the unnatural and affected style that
prevailed under the emperors. Quintilian gives a decided opinion.
Cicero, he says, was allowed to be the reigning orator of his time,
and his name, with posterity, is not so much that of a man, as of
eloquence itself. Quare non immerito ab hominibus ætatis
suæ, regnare in judiciis dictus est: apud posteros vero id
consecutus, ut Cicero jam non hominis, sed eloquentiæ nomen
habeatur. Lib. x. cap. 1. Pliny the younger professed that
Cicero was the orator with whom he aspired to enter into
competition. Not content with the eloquence of his own times, he
held it absurd not to follow the best examples of a former age.
Est enim mihi cum Cicerone æmulatio, nec sum contentus
eloquentiâ sæculi nostri. Nam stultissimum credo, ad
imitandum non optima quæque præponere. Lib. i.
epist. 5.
 Nicetes was a
native of Smyrna, and a rhetorician in great celebrity. Seneca says
(Controversiarum, lib. iv. cap. 25), that his scholars,
content with hearing their master, had no ambition to be heard
themselves. Pliny the younger, among the commendations which he
bestows on a friend, mentions, as a praise-worthy part of his
character, that he attended the lectures of Quintilian and Nicetes
Sacerdos, of whom Pliny himself was at that time a constant
follower. Erat non studiorum tantum, verum etiam studiosorum
amantissimus, ac prope quotidie ad audiendos, quos tunc ego
frequentabam, Quintilianum et Niceten Sacerdotem, ventitabat.
Lib. vi. epist. 6.
 Mitylene was the
chief city of the isle of Lesbos, in the Ægean Sea, near the
coast of Asia. The place at this day is called Metelin,
subject to the Turkish dominion. Ephesus was a city of
Ionia, in the Lesser Asia, now called Ajaloue by the
Turks, who are masters of the place.
 Domitius Afer and
Julius Africanus have been already mentioned, section xiii. note. Both are highly praised by Quintilian.
For Asinius Pollio, see s. xii. note.

Section XVI.
 Quintilian puts
the same question; and, according to him, Demosthenes is the last
of the ancients among the Greeks, as Cicero is among the Romans.
See Quintilian, lib. viii. cap. 5.
 The siege of
Troy is supposed to have been brought to a conclusion eleven
hundred and ninety-three years before Christian æra. From
that time to the sixth year of Vespasian (A.U.C. 828), when this
Dialogue was had, the number of years that intervened was about
1268; a period which, with propriety, may be said to be little less
than 1300 years.
 Demosthenes
died, before Christ 322 years, A.U.C. 432. From that time to the
sixth of Vespasian, A.U.C. 828, the intervening space was about 396
years. Aper calls it little more than 400 years; but in a
conversation-piece strict accuracy is not to be expected.
 In the rude
state of astronomy, which prevailed during many ages of the world,
it was natural that mankind should differ in their computation of
time. The ancient Egyptians, according to Diodorus Siculus, lib. i.
and Pliny the elder, lib. vii. s. 48, measured time by the new
moons. Some called the summer one year, and the winter another. At
first thirty days were a lunar year; three, four, and six months
were afterwards added, and hence in the Egyptian chronology the
vast number of years from the beginning of the world. Herodotus
informs us, that the Egyptians, in process of time, formed the idea
of the solar or solstitial year, subdivided into twelve months. The
Roman year at first was lunar, consisting, in the time of Romulus,
of ten months. Numa Pompilius added two. Men saw a diversity in the
seasons, and wishing to know the cause, began at length to perceive
that the distance or proximity of the sun occasioned the various
operations of nature; but it was long before the space of time,
wherein that luminary performs his course through the zodiac, and
returns to the point from which he set out, was called a year. The
great year (annus magnus), or the PLATONIC YEAR, is the
space of time, wherein the seven planets complete their
revolutions, and all set out again from the same point of the
heavens where their course began before. Mathematicians have been
much divided in their calculations. Brotier observes, that Riccioli
makes the great year 25,920 solar years; Tycho Brahe, 25,816; and
Cassini, 24,800. Cicero expressly calls it a period of 12,954
years. Horum annorum, quos in fastis habemus, MAGNUS annos
duodecim millia nonagentos quinquaginta quatuor amplectitur
solstitiales scilicet. For a full and accurate dissertation on
the ANNUS MAGNUS, see the Memoirs of the Academy of Belles Lettres,
tom. xxii. 4to edit. p. 82.
Brotier, in his note on this passage, relates a fact not
universally known. He mentions a letter from one of the Jesuits on
the mission, dated Peking, 25th October 1725, in which it is
stated, that in the month of March preceding, when Jupiter, Mars,
Venus, and Mercury were in conjunction, the Chinese mathematicians
fancied that an approximation of Saturn was near at hand, and, in
that persuasion, congratulated the emperor YONG-TCHING on the
renovation of the world, which was shortly to take place. The
emperor received the addresses of the nobility, and gave credit to
the opinion of the philosophers in all his public edicts.
Meanwhile, Father Kegler endeavoured to undeceive the
emperor, and to convince him that the whole was a mistake of the
Chinese mathematicians: but he tried in vain; flattery succeeded at
court, and triumphed over truth.
 The argument is
this: If the great year is the measure of time; then, as it
consists, according to Cicero, of 12,954 solar years, the whole
being divided by twelve, every month of the great year would be
clearly 1080 years. According to that calculation, Demosthenes not
only lived in the same year with the persons engaged in the
Dialogue, but, it may be said, in the same month. These are the
months to which Virgil alludes in the fourth eclogue:
Incipient magni procedere
menses.

Section XVII.
 Menenius
Agrippa was consul A.U.C. 251. In less than ten years afterwards,
violent dissensions broke out between the patrician order and the
common people, who complained that they were harassed and oppressed
by their affluent creditors. One Sicinius was their factious
demagogue. He told them, that it was in vain they fought the
battles of their country, since they were no better than slaves and
prisoners at Rome. He added, that men are born equal; that the
fruits of the earth were the common birth-right of all, and an
agrarian law was necessary; that they groaned under a load of debts
and taxes; and that a lazy and corrupt aristocracy battened at ease
on the spoils of their labour and industry. By the advice of this
incendiary, the discontented citizens made a secession to the MONS
SACER, about three miles out of the city. The fathers, in the
meantime, were covered with consternation. In order, however, to
appease the fury of the multitude, they dispatched Menenius Agrippa
to their camp. In the rude unpolished style of the times (prisco
illo dicendi et horrido modo, says Livy), that orator told
them:
"At the time when the powers of
man did not, as at present,
co-operate to one useful end, and
the members of the human
body had their separate interest,
their factions, and
cabals; it was agreed among them,
that the belly maintained
itself by their toil and labour,
enjoying, in the middle of
all, a state of calm repose,
pampered with luxuries, and
gratified with every kind of
pleasure. A conspiracy
followed, and the several members
of the body took the
covenant. The hand would no
longer administer food; the
mouth would not accept it, and
the drudgery of mastication
was too much for the teeth. They
continued in this
resolution, determined to starve
the TREASURY of the body,
till they began to feel the
consequences of their
ill-advised revolt. The several
members lost their former
vigour, and the whole body was
falling into a rapid decline.
It was then seen that the belly
was formed for the good of
the whole; that it was by no
means lazy, idle, and inactive;
but, while it was properly
supported, took care to
distribute nourishment to every
part, and having digested
the supplies, filled the veins
with pure and wholesome
blood."
The analogy, which this fable bore to the sedition of the Roman
people, was understood and felt. The discontented multitude saw
that the state of man described by Menenius, was like to an
insurrection. They returned to Rome, and submitted to legal
government. Tempore, quo in homine non, ut nunc, omnia in unum
consentiebant, sed singulis membris suum cuique consilium, sum
sermo fuerat, indignatas reliquas partes, suâ curâ, suo
labore, ac ministerio, ventri omnia quæri; ventrem in medio
quietum, nihil aliud, quam datis voluptatibus frui; conspirasse
inde, ne manus ad os cibum ferrent, nec os acciperit datum, nec
dentes conficerent. Hac irâ dum ventrem fame domare vellent,
ipsa unâ membra, totumque corpus ad extremam tabem venisse.
Inde apparuisse, ventris quoque haud segne ministerium esse; nec
magis ali quam alere eum; reddentem in omnes corporis partes hunc,
quo vivimus vigemusque, divisum, pariter in venas, maturum confecto
cibo sanguinem. Livy, lib. ii. s. 32. St. Paul has made use of
a similar argument;
"The body is not one member, but
many: if the foot shall
say, Because I am not the hand, I
am not of the body; is it,
therefore, not of the body? and
if the ear shall say,
Because I am not the eye, I am
not of the body; is it,
therefore, not of the body? If
the whole body were an eye,
where were the hearing? If the
whole were hearing, where
were the smelling? But now hath
God set the members everyone
of them in the body, as it hath
pleased him. And if they
were all one member, where were
the body? But now are they
many members, yet but one body:
and the eye cannot say unto
the hand, I have no need of thee;
nor again, the head to the
feet, I have no need of you. And
whether one member suffer,
all the members suffer with it;
or one member be honoured,
all the members rejoice with
it."
First Epistle to the
Corinthians, chap. xii.
This reasoning of St. Paul merits the attention of those friends
of innovation, who are not content with the station in which God
has placed them, and, therefore, object to all subordination, all
ranks in society.
 Cæsar
the dictator was, as the poet expresses it, graced with both
Minervas. Quintilian is of opinion, that if he had devoted his
whole time to the profession of eloquence, he would have been the
great rival of Cicero. The energy of his language, his strength of
conception, and his power over the passions, were so striking, that
he may be said to have harangued with the same spirit that he
fought. Caius vero Cæsar si foro tantum vacasset, non
alius ex nostris contra Ciceronem nominaretur. Tanta in eo vis est,
id acumen, ea concitatio, ut illum eodem animo dixisse, quo
bellavit, appareat. Lib. x. cap. 1. To speak of Cicero in this
place, were to hold a candle to the sun. It will be sufficient to
refer to Quintilian, who in the chapter above cited has drawn a
beautiful parallel between him and Demosthenes. The Roman orator,
he admits, improved himself by a diligent study of the best models
of Greece. He attained the warmth and the sublime of Demosthenes,
the harmony of Plato, and the sweet flexibility of Isocrates. His
own native genius supplied the rest. He was not content, as Pindar
expresses it, to collect the drops that rained down from heaven,
but had in himself the living fountain of that copious flow, and
that sublime, that pathetic energy, which were bestowed upon him by
the bounty of Providence, that in one man eloquence might exert all
her powers. Nam mihi videtur Marcus Tullius, cum se totum ad
imitationem Græcorum contulisset, effinxisse vim Demosthenis,
copiam Platonis, jucunditatem Isocratis. Nec vero quod in quoque
optimum fuit studio consecutus est tantum, sed plurimas vel potius
omnes ex se ipso virtutes extulit immortalis ingenii
beatissimâ ubertate. Non enim pluvias (ut ait Pindarus) aquas
colligit sed vivo gurgite exundat, dono quodam providentiæ
genitus, in quo vires suas eloquentia experiretur. Lib. x. cap.
1.
 Marcus
Cælius Rufus, in the judgement of Quintilian, was an orator
of considerable genius. In the conduct of a prosecution, he was
remarkable for a certain urbanity, that gave a secret charm to his
whole speech. It is to be regretted that he was not a man of better
conduct and longer life. Multum ingenii in Cælio, et
præcipuè in accusando multa urbanitas; dignusque vir,
cui et mens melior, et vita longior contigisset. Quint, lib. x.
cap. 1. His letters to Cicero make the eighth book of the
Epistolæ ad Familiares. Velleius Paterculus says of
him, that his style of eloquence and his cast of mind bore a
resemblance to Curio, but raised him above that factious orator.
His genius for mischief and evil deeds was not inferior to Curio,
and his motives were strong and urgent, since his fortune was worse
than even his frame of mind. Marcus Cælius, vir eloquio
animoque Curioni simillimus, sed in utroque perfectior; nec minus
ingeniosè nequam, cum ne in modicâ quidem servari
posset, quippe pejor illi res familiaris, quam mens. Vell.
Patere. lib. ii. s. 68.
Licinius Macer Calvus, we are told by Seneca, maintained a long
but unjust contention with Cicero himself for the palm of
eloquence. He was a warm and vehement accuser, insomuch that
Vatinius, though defended by Cicero, interrupted Calvus in the
middle of his speech, and said to the judges, "Though this man has
a torrent of words, does it follow that I must be condemned?"
Calvus diu cum Cicerone iniquissimam litem de principatu
eloquentiæ habuit; et usque eò violentus accusator et
concitatus fuit, ut in media actione ejus surgeret Vatinius reus,
et exclamaret, Rogo vos, judices, si iste disertus est, ideo me
damnari oportet? Seneca, Controv. lib. iii. cap. 19.
Cicero could not dread him as a rival, and it may therefore be
presumed, that he has drawn his character with an impartial hand.
Calvus was an orator more improved by literature than Curio. He
spoke with accuracy, and in his composition shewed great taste and
delicacy; but, labouring to refine his language, he was too
attentive to little niceties. He wished to make no bad blood, and
he lost the good. His style was polished with timid caution; but
while it pleased the ear of the learned, the spirit evaporated, and
of course made no impression in the forum, which is the theatre of
eloquence. Ad Calvum revertamur; qui orator fuisset cum literis
eruditior quam Curio, tum etiam accuratius quoddam dicendi, et
exquisitius afferebat genus; quod quamquam scienter eleganterque
tractabat, nimium tamen inquirens in se, atque ipse sese observans,
metuensque ne vitiosum colligeret, etiam verum sanguinem
deperdebat. Itaque ejus oratio nimiâ religione attenuata,
doctis et attentè audientibus erat illustris, a multitudine
autem, et a foro, cui nata eloquentia est, devorabatur. De Claris
Orat. s. 288. Quintilian says, there were, who preferred him to
all the orators of his time. Others were of opinion that, by being
too severe a critic on himself, he polished too much, and grew weak
by refinement. But his manner was grave and solid; his style was
chaste, and often animated. To be thought a man of attic eloquence
was the height of his ambition. If he had lived to see his error,
and to give to his eloquence a true and perfect form, not by
retrenching (for there was nothing to be taken away), but by adding
certain qualities that were wanted, he would have reached the
summit of his art. By a premature death his fame was nipped in the
bud. Inveni qui Calvum præferrent omnibus; inveni qui
contrà crederent eum, nimiâ contra se calumniâ,
verum sanguinem perdidisse. Sed est et sancta et gravis oratio, et
castigata, et frequenter vehemens quoque. Imitator est autem
Atticorum; fecitque illi properata mors injuriam, si quid
adjecturus, non si quid detracturus fuit. Quintil. lib. x. cap.
1.
 This was the
famous Marcus Junius Brutus, who stood forth in the cause of
liberty, and delivered his country from the usurpation of Julius
Cæsar. Cicero describes him in that great tragic scene,
brandishing his bloody dagger, and calling on Cicero by name, to
tell him that his country was free. Cæsare interfecto,
statim cruentum altè extollens Marcus Brutus pugionem,
Ciceronem nominatim exclamavit, atque ei recuperatam libertatem est
gratulatus. Philippic, ii. s. 28. The late Doctor Akenside has
retouched this passage with all the colours of a sublime
imagination.
Look then abroad through nature,
through the range
Of planets, suns, and adamantine
spheres,
Wheeling unshaken through the
void immense,
And speak, O man! does this
capacious scene
With half that kindling majesty
dilate
Thy strong conception, as when
Brutus rose
Refulgent from the stroke of
Cæsar's fate,
Amid the crowd of patriots, and
his arm
Aloft extending, like eternal
Jove
When guilt brings down the
thunder, call'd aloud
On Tully's name, and shook his
crimson steel,
And bade the Father of his
Country hail!
For, lo! the tyrant prostrate in
the dust,
And Rome again is
free.
PLEASURES OF IMAG. b. i. ver.
487.
According to Quintilian, Brutus was fitter for philosophical
speculations, and books of moral theory, than for the career of
public oratory. In the former he was equal to the weight and
dignity of his subject: you clearly saw that he believed what he
said. Egregius vero multoque quam in orationibus
præstantior Brutus, suffecit ponderi rerum; scias eum sentire
quæ dicit. Quintil. lib. x. cap. 1.
For Asinius Pollio and Messala, see section xii. note.
 Hirtius and
Pansa were consuls A.U.C. 711; before the Christian æra 43.
In this year, the famous triple league, called the
TRIUMVIRATE, was formed between Augustus, Lepidus, and Antony. The
proscription, or the list of those who were doomed to die
for the crime of adhering to the cause of liberty, was also
settled, and Cicero was one of the number. A band of assassins went
in quest of him to his villa, called Astura, near the
sea-shore. Their leader was one Popilius Lænas, a military
tribune, whom Cicero had formerly defended with success in a
capital cause. They overtook Cicero in his litter. He commanded his
servants to set him down, and make no resistance; then looking upon
his executioners with a presence and firmness which almost daunted
them, and thrusting his neck as forward as he could out of the
litter, he bade them do their work, and take what they
wanted. The murderers cut off his head, and both his hands.
Popilius undertook to convey them to Rome, as the most agreeable
present to Antony; without reflecting on the infamy of carrying
that head, which had saved his own. He found Antony in the
forum, and upon shewing the spoils which he brought, was rewarded
on the spot with the honour of a crown, and about eight thousand
pounds sterling. Antony ordered the head to be fixed upon
the rostra, between the two hands; a sad spectacle to the
people, who beheld those mangled members, which used to exert
themselves, from that place, in defence of the lives, the fortunes,
and the liberties of Rome. Cicero was killed on the seventh of
December, about ten days from the settlement of the triumvirate,
after he had lived sixty-three years, eleven months, and five
days. See Middleton's Life of Cicero, 4to edit. vol. ii.
p. 495 to 498. Velleius Paterculus, after mentioning Cicero's
death, breaks out in a strain of indignation, that almost redeems
the character of that time-serving writer. He says to Antony, in a
spirited apostrophe, you have no reason to exult: you have gained
no point by paying the assassin, who stopped that eloquent mouth,
and cut off that illustrious head. You have paid the wages of
murder, and you have destroyed a consul who was the conservator of
the commonwealth. By that act you delivered Cicero from a
distracted world, from the infirmities of old age, and from a life
which, under your usurpation, would have been worse than death. His
fame was not to be crushed: the glory of his actions and his
eloquence still remains, and you have raised it higher than ever.
He lives, and will continue to live in every age and nation.
Posterity will admire and venerate the torrent of eloquence, which
he poured out against yourself, and will for ever execrate the
horrible murder which you committed. Nihil tamen egisti, Marce
Antoni (cogit enim excedere propositi formam operis erumpens animo
ac pectore indignatio): nihil, inquam, egisti; mercedem
cælestissimi oris, et clarissimi capitis abscissi numerando;
auctoramentoque funebri ad conservatoris quondam reipublicæ
tantique consulis irritando necem. Rapuisti tu Marco Ciceroni lucem
sollicitam et ætatem senilem, et vitam miseriorem te
principe, quam sub te triumviro mortem. Famam vero, gloriamque
factorum atque dictorum adeo non abstulisti, ut auxeris. Vivit,
vivetque per omnium sæculorum memoriam; omnisque posteritas
illius in te scripta mirabitur, tuum in eum factum execrabitur.
Vell. Paterc. lib. ii. s. 66.
 Between the
consulship of Augustus, which began immediately after the
destruction of Hirtius and Pansa, A.U.C. 711, and the death of that
emperor, which was A.U. 767, fifty-six years intervened, and to the
sixth of Vespasian (A.U.C. 828), about 118 years. For the sake of a
round number, it is called in the Dialogue a space of 120
years.
 Julius
Cæsar landed in Britain in the years of Rome 699 and 700. See
Life of Agricola, s. 13. note a. It does not appear when
Aper was in Britain; it could not be till the year of Rome 796,
when Aulus Plautius, by order of the emperor Claudius, undertook
the conquest of the island. See Life of Agricola, s. 14.
note a. At that time, the Briton who fought against Cæsar,
must have been far advanced in years.
 A largess
was given to the people, in the fourth year of Vespasian, when
Domitian entered on his second consulship. This, Brotier says,
appears on a medal, with this inscription: CONG. II. COS. II.
Congiarium alterum, Domitiano consule secundùm. The
custom of giving large distributions to the people was for many
ages established at Rome. Brotier traces it from Ancus Martius, the
fourth king of Rome, when the poverty of the people called for
relief. The like bounty was distributed by the generals, who
returned in triumph. Lucullus and Julius Cæsar displayed, on
those occasions, great pomp and magnificence. Corn, wine, and oil,
were plentifully distributed, and the popularity, acquired by those
means, was, perhaps, the ruin of the commonwealth. Cæsar
lavished money. Augustus followed the example, and Tiberius did the
same; but prodigality was not his practice. His politic genius
taught him all the arts of governing. The bounties thus
distributed, were called, when given to the people, CONGIARIA, and,
to the soldiers, DONATIVA. Whoever desires to form an idea of the
number of Roman citizens who, at different times, received
largesses, and the prodigious expence attending them, may see an
account drawn up with diligent attention by Brotier, in an
elaborate note on this passage. He begins with Julius Cæsar;
and pursues the enquiry through the several successive emperors,
fixing the date and expence at every period, as low down as the
consulship of Constantius and Galerius Maximianus; when, the empire
being divided into the eastern and western, its former magnificence
was, by consequence, much diminished.
 The person
here called Corvinus was the same as Corvinus Messala, who
flourished in the reign of Augustus, at the same time with Asinius
Pollio. See s. xii. note.

Section XVIII.
 Servius
Sulpicius Galba was consul A.U.C. 610, before the Christian
æra 144. Cicero says of him, that he was, in his day, an
orator of eminence. When he spoke in public, the natural energy of
his mind supported him, and the warmth of his imagination made him
vehement and pathetic; his language was animated, bold, and rapid;
but when he, afterwards, took his pen in hand to correct and
polish, the fit of enthusiasm was over; his passions ebbed away,
and the composition was cold and languid. Galbam fortasse vis
non ingenii solum, sed etiam animi, et naturalis quidam dolor,
dicentem incendebat, efficiebatque, ut et incitata, et gravis, et
vehemens esset oratio; dein cum otiosus stilum prehenderat,
motusque omnis animi, tanquam ventus, hominem defecerat,
flaccescebat oratio. Ardor animi non semper adest, isque cum
consedit, omnis illa vis, et quasi flamma oratoris extinguitur.
De Claris Orat. s. 93. Suetonius says, that the person here
intended was of consular dignity, and, by his eloquence, gave
weight and lustre to his family. Life of Galba, s. iii.
 Caius Papirius Carbo was consul A.U.C.
634. Cicero wishes that he had proved himself as good a citizen, as
he was an orator. Being impeached for his turbulent and seditious
conduct, he did not choose to stand the event of a trial, but
escaped the judgement of the senate by a voluntary death. His life
was spent in forensic causes. Men of sense, who heard him have
reported, that he was a fluent, animated, and harmonious speaker;
at times pathetic, always pleasing, and abounding with wit.
Carbo, quoad vita suppeditavit, est in multis judiciis causisque
cognitus. Hunc qui audierant prudentes homines, canorum oratorem,
et volubilem, et satis acrem, atque eundem et vehementem, et valde
dulcem, et perfacetum fuisse dicebant. De Claris Orat. s.
105.
 Calvus
and Cælius have been mentioned already. See s. xvii. note.
 Caius
Gracchus was tribune of the people A.U.C. 633. In that character he
took the popular side against the patricians; and, pursuing the
plan of the agrarian law laid down by his brother, Tiberius
Gracchus, he was able by his eloquence to keep the city of Rome in
violent agitation. Amidst the tumult, the senate, by a decree,
ordered the consul, Lucius Opimius, to take care that the
commonwealth received no injury; and, says Cicero, not a single
night intervened, before that magistrate put Gracchus to death.
Decrevit senatus, ut Lucius Opimius, consul, videret, ne quid
detrimenti respublica caperet: nox nulla intercessit; interfectus
est propter quasdam seditionum suspiciones Caius Gracchus,
clarissimo patre natus, avis majoribus. Orat. i. in Catilinam.
His reputation as an orator towers above all his contemporaries.
Cicero says, the commonwealth and the interests of literature
suffered greatly by his untimely end. He wishes that the love of
his country, and not zeal for the memory of his brother, had
inspired his actions. His eloquence was such as left him without a
rival: in his diction, what a noble splendour! in his sentiments,
what elevation! and in the whole of his manner, what weight and
dignity! His compositions, it is true, are not retouched with care;
they want the polish of the last hand; what is well begun, is
seldom highly finished; and yet he, if any one, deserves to be the
study of the Roman youth. In him they will find what can, at once,
quicken their genius, and enrich the understanding. Damnum enim,
illius immaturo interitu, res Romanæ, Latinæque
literæ fecerunt. Utinam non tam fratri pietatem, quam
patriæ præstare voluisset. Eloquentia quidem nescio an
habuisset parem: grandis est verbis, sapiens sententiis, genere
toto gravis. Manus extrema non accessit operibus ejus;
præclare inchoata multa, perfecta non plane. Legendus est hic
orator, si quisquam alius, juventuti; non enim solum acuere, sed
etiam alere ingenium potest. De Claris Orat. s. 125, 126.
 This is
the celebrated Marcus Portius Cato, commonly known by the name of
Cato the censor. He was quæstor under Scipio, who commanded
against the Carthaginians, A.U.C. 548. He rose through the regular
gradations of the magistracy to the consulship. When prætor,
he governed the province of Sardinia, and exerted himself in the
reform of all abuses introduced by his predecessors. From his own
person, and his manner of living, he banished every appearance of
luxury. When he had occasion to visit the towns that lay within his
government, he went on foot, clothed with the plainest attire,
without a vehicle following him, or more than one servant, who
carried the robe of office, and a vase, to make libations at the
altar. He sat in judgement with the dignity of a magistrate, and
punished every offence with inflexible rigour. He had the happy art
of uniting in his own person two things almost incompatible;
namely, strict severity and sweetness of manners. Under his
administration, justice was at once terrible and amiable. Plutarch
relates that he never wore a dress that cost more than thirty
shillings; that his wine was no better than what was consumed by
his slaves; and that by leading a laborious life, he meant to
harden his constitution for the service of his country. He never
ceased to condemn the luxury of the times. On this subject a
remarkable apophthegm is recorded by Plutarch; It is
impossible, said Cato, to save a city, in which a single
fish sells for more money than an ox. The account given of him
by Cicero in the Cato Major, excites our veneration of the man. He
was master of every liberal art, and every branch of science, known
in that age. Some men rose to eminence by their skill in
jurisprudence; others by their eloquence; and a great number by
their military talents. Cato shone in all alike. The patricians
were often leagued against him, but his virtue and his eloquence
were a match for the proudest connections. He was chosen CENSOR, in
opposition to a number of powerful candidates, A.U.C. 568. He was
the adviser of the third Punic war. The question occasioned several
warm debates in the senate. Cato always insisted on the demolition
of Carthage: DELENDA EST CARTHAGO. He preferred an accusation
against Servius Sulpicius Galba on a charge of peculation in Spain,
A.U.C. 603; and, though he was then ninety years old, according to
Livy (Cicero says he lived to eighty-five), he conducted the
business with so much vigour, that Galba, in order to excite
compassion, produced his children before the senate, and by that
artifice escaped a sentence of condemnation. Quintilian gives the
following character of Cato the censor: His genius, like his
learning, was universal: historian, orator, lawyer, he cultivated
the three branches; and what he undertook, he touched with a
master-hand. The science of husbandry was also his. Great as his
attainments were, they were acquired in camps, amidst the din of
arms; and in the city of Rome, amidst scenes of contention, and the
uproar of civil discord. Though he lived in rude unpolished times,
he applied himself, when far advanced in the vale of years, to the
study of Greek literature, and thereby gave a signal proof that
even in old age the willing mind may be enriched with new stores of
knowledge. Marcus Censorius Cato, idem orator, idem
historiæ conditor, idem juris, idem rerum rusticarum
peritissimus fuit. Inter tot opera militiæ, tantas domi
contentions, ridi sæculo literas Græcas, ætate
jam declinatâ didicit, ut esset hominibus documento, ea
quoque percipi posse, quæ senes concupissent. Lib. xii.
cap. 11.
 Lucius
Licinius Crassus is often mentioned, and always to his advantage,
by Cicero DE CLARIS ORATORIBUS. He was born, as appears in that
treatise (sect. 161), during the consulship of Lælius and
Cæpio, A.U.C. 614: he was contemporary with Antonius, the
celebrated orator, and father of Antony the triumvir. Crassus was
about four and thirty years older than Cicero. When Philippus the
consul shewed himself disposed to encroach on the privileges of the
senate, and, in the presence of that body, offered indignities to
Licinius Crassus, the orator, as Cicero informs us, broke out in a
blaze of eloquence against that violent outrage, concluding with
that remarkable sentence: He shall not be to me A CONSUL, to whom I
am not A SENATOR. Non es mihi consul, quia nec ego tibi senator
sum. See Valerius Maximus, lib. xli. cap. 2. Cicero has
given his oratorical character. He possessed a wonderful dignity of
language, could enliven his discourse with wit and pleasantry,
never descending to vulgar humour; refined, and polished, without a
tincture of scurrility. He preserved the true Latin idiom; in his
selection of words accurate, with apparent facility; no stiffness,
no affectation appeared; in his train of reasoning always clear and
methodical; and, when the cause hinged upon a question of law, or
the moral distinctions of good and evil, no man possessed such a
fund of argument, and happy illustration. Crasso nihil statuo
fieri potuisse perfectius: erat summa gravitas; erat cum gravitate
junctus facetiarum et urbanitatis oratorius, non scurrilis, lepos.
Latinè loquendi accurata, et, sine molestiâ, diligens
elegantia; in disserendo mira explicatio; cum de jure civili, cum
de æquo et bono disputaretur, argumentorum et similitudinum
copia. De Claris Orat. s. 143. In Cicero's books DE
ORATORE, Licinius Crassus supports a capital part in the dialogue;
but in the opening of the third book, we have a pathetic
account of his death, written, as the Italians say, con
amore. Crassus returned from his villa, where the dialogue
passed, to take part in the debate against Philippus the consul,
who had declared to an assembly of the people, that he was obliged
to seek new counsellors, for with such a senate he could not
conduct the affairs of the commonwealth. The conduct of Crassus,
upon that occasion, has been mentioned already. The vehemence, with
which he exerted himself, threw him into a violent fever, and, on
the seventh day following, put a period to his life. Then, says
Cicero, that tuneful swan expired: we hoped once more to hear the
melody of his voice, and went, in that expectation, to the
senate-house; but all that remained was to gaze on the spot where
that eloquent orator spoke for the last time in the service of his
country. Illud immortalitate dignum ingenium, illa humanitas,
illa virtus Lucii Crassi morte extincta subitâ est, vix
diebus decem post eum diem, qui hoc et superiore libra continetur.
Illa tanquam cycnea fuit divini hominis vox, et oratio, quam quasi
expectantes, post ejus interitum veniebamus in curiam, ut vestigium
illud ipsum, in quo ille postremum institisset, contueremur. De
Orat. lib, iii. s. 1. and 6. This passage will naturally call
to mind the death of the great earl of Chatham. He went, in a
feeble state of health, to attend a debate of the first importance.
Nothing could detain him from the service of his country. The dying
notes of the BRITISH SWAN were heard in the House of Peers. He was
conveyed to his own house, and on the eleventh of May 1778, he
breathed his last. The news reached the House of Commons late in
the evening, when Colonel BARRE had the honour of being the first
to shed a patriot tear on that melancholy occasion. In a strain of
manly sorrow, and with that unprepared eloquence which the heart
inspires, he moved for a funeral at the public expence, and a
monument to the memory of virtue and departed genius. By performing
that pious office, Colonel BARRE may be said to have made his own
name immortal. History will record the transaction.
 Messala
Corvinus is often, in this Dialogue, called Corvinus only. See s.
xii. note.
 Appius
Claudius was censor in the year of Rome 442; dictator, 465; and,
having at a very advanced age lost his sight, he became better
known by the name of Appius Cæcus. Afterwards, A.U. 472, when
Pyrrhus, by his ambassador, offered terms of peace, and a treaty of
alliance, Appius, whom blindness, and the infirmities of age, had
for some time withheld from public business, desired to be conveyed
in a litter to the senate-house. Being conducted to his place, he
delivered his sentiments in so forcible a manner, that the fathers
resolved to prosecute the war, and never to hear of an
accommodation, till Italy was evacuated by Pyrrhus and his army.
See Livy, b. xiii. s. 31. Cicero relates the same fact in his CATO
MAJOR, and further adds, that the speech made by APPIUS CÆCUS
was then extant. Ovid mentions the temple of Bellona, built and
dedicated by Appius, who, when blind, saw every thing by the light
of his understanding, and rejected all terms of accommodation with
Pyrrhus.
Hac sacrata die Tusco Bellona
duello
Dicitur, et Latio prospera semper
adest.
Appius est auctor, Pyrrho qui
pace negatâ
Multum animo vidit, lumine
cæcus erat.
FASTORUM lib vi. ver.
201.

Quintilian acknowledges this fact, with his usual candour. The
question concerning Attic and Asiatic eloquence was of long
standing. The style of the former was close, pure, and elegant; the
latter was said to be diffuse and ostentatious. In the ATTIC,
nothing was idle, nothing redundant: the ASIATIC swelled above all
bounds, affecting to dazzle by strokes of wit, by affectation and
superfluous ornament. Cicero was said by his enemies to be an
orator of the last school. They did not scruple to pronounce him
turgid, copious to a fault, often redundant, and too fond of
repetition. His wit, they said, was the false glitter of vain
conceit, frigid, and out of season; his composition was cold and
languid; wire-drawn into amplification, and fuller of meretricious
finery than became a man. Et antiqua quidem illa divisio inter
Asianos et Atticos fuit; cum hi pressi, et integri, contra, inflati
illi et inanes haberentur; et in his nihil superflueret, illis
judicium maximè ac modus deesset. Ciceronem tamen et suorum
homines temporum incessere audebant ut tumidiorem, et Asianum, et
redundantem, et in repetitionibus nimium, et in salibus aliquando
frigidum, et in compositione fractum, exultantem, ac penè
(quod procul absit) viro molliorem. Quintil. lib. xii. cap. 10.
The same author adds, that, when the great orator was cut off by
Marc Antony's proscription, and could no longer answer for himself,
the men who either personally hated him, or envied his genius, or
chose to pay their court to the, triumvirate, poured forth their
malignity without reserve. It is unnecessary to observe, that
Quintilian, in sundry parts of his work, has vindicated Cicero from
these aspersions. See s. xvii. note.
 For
Calvus, see s. xvii. note. For Brutus,
see the same section, note. What Cicero
thought of Calvus has been already quoted from the tract De
Claris Oratoribus, in note, s. xvii.
By being too severe a critic on himself, he lost strength, while he
aimed at elegance. It is, therefore, properly said in this
Dialogue, that Cicero thought Calvus cold and enervated. But did he
think Brutus disjointed, loose and negligent—otiosum atque
disjunctum? That he often thought him disjointed is not
improbable. Brutus was a close thinker, and he aimed at the
precision and brevity of Attic eloquence. The sententious speaker
is, of course, full and concise. He has no studied transitions,
above the minute care of artful connections. To discard the
copulatives for the sake of energy was a rule laid down by the best
ancient critics. Cicero has observed that an oration may be said to
be disjointed, when the copulatives are omitted, and strokes of
sentiment follow one another in quick succession. Dissolutio
sive disjunctio est, quæ conjunctionibus e medio sublatis,
partibus separatis effertur, hoc modo: Gere morem parenti; pare
cognatis; obsequere amicis; obtempera legibus. Ad Herennium,
lib. iv. s. 41. In this manner, Brutus might appear disjointed, and
that figure, often repeated, might grow into a fault. But how is
the word OTIOSUS to be understood? If it means a neglect of
connectives, it may, perhaps, apply to Brutus. There is no room to
think that Cicero used it in a worse sense, since we find him in a
letter to Atticus declaring, that the oratorical style of Brutus
was, in language as well as sentiment, elegant to a degree that
nothing could surpass. Est enim oratio ejus scripta
elegantissimè, sententiis et verbis, ut nihil possit
ultra. A grave philosopher, like Brutus, might reject the
graces of transition and regular connection, and, for that reason,
might be thought negligent and abrupt. This disjointed style, which
the French call style coupé, was the manner
cultivated by Seneca, for which Caligula pronounced him, sand
without lime; arenam sine calce. Sueton. Life of
Calig. s. 53. We know from Quintilian, that a spirit of
emulation, and even jealousy, subsisted between the eminent orators
of Cicero's time; that he himself was so far from ascribing
perfection to Demosthenes, that he used to say, he often found him
napping; that Brutus and Calvus sat in judgement on Cicero, and did
not wish to conceal their objections; and that the two Pollios were
so far from being satisfied with Cicero's style and manner, that
their criticisms were little short of declared hostility.
Quamquam neque ipsi Ciceroni Demosthenes videatur satis esse
perfectus, quem dormitare interdum dicit; nec Cicero Bruto
Calvoque, qui certè compositionem illius etiam apud ipsum
reprehendunt; ne Asinio utrique, qui vitia orationis ejus etiam
inimicè pluribus locis insequuntur. Quintil. lib. xii.
cap. 1.

Section XIX.
 Cassius Severus
lived in the latter end of the reign of Augustus, and through a
considerable part of that of Tiberius. He was an orator, according
to Quintilian, who, if read with due caution, might serve as a
model worthy of imitation. It is to be regretted, that to the many
excellent qualities of his style he did not add more weight, more
strength and dignity, and thereby give colour and a body to his
sentiments. With those requisites, he would have ranked with the
most eminent orators. To his excellent genius he united keen
reflection, great energy, and a peculiar urbanity, which gave a
secret charm to his speeches. But the warmth of his temper hurried
him on; he listened more to his passions than to his judgement; he
possessed a vein of wit, but he mingled with it too much acrimony;
and wit, when it misses its aim, feels the mortification and the
ridicule which usually attend disappointed malice. Multa, si cum
judicio legatur, dabit imitatione digna CASSIUS SEVERUS, qui, si
cæteris virtutibus colorem et gravitatem orationis
adjecisset, ponendus inter præcipuos foret, Nam et ingenii
plurimum est in eo, et acerbitas mira, et urbanitas, et vis summa;
sed plus stomacho quàm consilio dedit; præterea ut
amari sales, ita frequenter amaritudo ipsa ridicula est. Lib.
x. cap. 1. We read in Suetonius (Life of Octavius, s. 56),
that Cassius had the hardiness to institute a prosecution for the
crime of poisoning against Asprenas Nonius, who was, at the time,
linked in the closest friendship with Augustus. Not content with
accusations against the first men in Rome, he chose to vent his
malevolence in lampoons and defamatory libels, against the most
distinguished of both sexes. It was this that provoked Horace to
declare war against Cassius, in an ode (lib, v. ode 6), which
begins, Quid immerentes hospites vexas, canis. See an
account of his malevolent spirit, Annals, b, i. s. 72. He
was at length condemned for his indiscriminate abuse, and banished
by Augustus to the isle of Crete. But his satirical rage was not to
be controlled. He continued in exile to discharge his malignity,
till, at last, at the end of ten years, the senate took cognizance
of his guilt, and Tiberius ordered him to be removed from Crete to
the Rock of Seriphos, where he languished in old age and misery.
See Annals, b. iv. s. 21. The period of ancient oratory
ended about the time when Cassius began his career. He was the
first of the new school.
 These two
rhetoricians flourished in the time of Augustus. Apollodorus, we
are told by Quintilian (b. iii. chap. 1), was the preceptor of
Augustus. He taught in opposition to Theodorus Gadareus, who read
lectures at Rhodes, and was attended by Tiberius during his retreat
in that island. The two contending masters were the founders of
opposite sects, called the Apollodorean and
Theodorian. But true eloquence, which knows no laws but
those of nature and good sense, gained nothing by party divisions.
Literature was distracted by new doctrines; rhetoric became a trick
in the hands of sophists, and all sound oratory disappeared.
Hermagoras, Quintilian says, in the chapter already cited, was the
disciple of Theodorus.

Section XX.
 Doctor Middleton
says, "Of the seven excellent orations, which now remain on the
subject of VERRES, the first two only were spoken; the one called,
The Divination; the other, The first Action, which is
nothing more than a general preface to the whole cause. The other
five were published afterwards, as they were prepared and intended
to be spoken, if Verres had made a regular defence: for as this was
the only cause in which Cicero had yet been engaged, or ever
designed to be engaged, as an accuser, so he was willing to
leave those orations as a specimen of his abilities in that way,
and the pattern of a just and diligent impeachment of a great
and corrupt magistrate." Life of Cicero, vol. i. p. 86, 4to
edit.
 The Digest
enumerates a multitude of rules concerning exceptions to
persons, things, the form of the action, the niceties of pleading,
and, as the phrase is, motions in arrest of judgement.
Formula, was the set of words necessary to be used in the
pleadings. See the Digest, lib. xliv. tit. 1. De
Exceptionibus, Præscriptionibus, et Præjudiciis.
See also Cujacius, observat. xxiii.
 The oration for
Marcus Tullius is highly praised by Macrobius, but is not to be
found in Cicero's works. The oration for Aulus Cæcina is
still extant. The cause was about the right of succession to a
private estate, which depended on a subtle point of law, arising
from the interpretation of the prætor's interdict. It shews
Cicero's exact knowledge and skill in the civil law, and that his
public character and employment gave no interruption to his usual
diligence in pleading causes. Middleton's Life of Cicero,
vol. i. p. 116, 4to edit.
 Roscius, in the
last period of the republic, was the comedian, whom all Rome
admired for his talents. The great esteemed and loved him for his
morals. Æsop, the tragedian, was his contemporary. Horace, in
the epistle to Augustus, has mentioned them both with their proper
and distinctive qualities.
——Ea cum reprehendere
coner
Quæ GRAVIS ÆSOPUS,
quæ DOCTUS ROSCIUS egit.
A certain measured gravity of elocution being requisite in
tragedy, that quality is assigned to the former, and the latter is
called DOCTUS, because he was a complete master of his art; so
truly learned in the principles of his profession, that he
possessed, in a wonderful degree, the secret charm that gave
inimitable graces to his voice and action. Quintilian, in a few
words, has given a commentary on the passage in Horace. Grief, he
says, is expressed by slow and deliberate accents; for that reason,
Æsop spoke with gravity; Roscius with quickness; the former
being a tragedian, the latter a comedian. Plus autem affectus
habent lentiora; ideoque Roscius citatior, Æsopus gravior
fuit, quod ille comœdias, his tragœdias egit. Lib.
xi. cap. 1. Cicero was the great friend and patron of Roscius. An
elegant oration in his behalf is still extant. The cause was this:
One FANNIUS had made over to Roscius a young slave, to be formed by
him to the stage, on condition of a partnership in the profits
which the slave should acquire by acting. The slave was afterwards
killed. Roscius prosecuted the murderer for damages, and obtained,
by composition, a little farm, worth about eight hundred pounds,
for his particular share. FANNIUS also sued separately, and was
supposed to have gained as much; but, pretending to have recovered
nothing, he sued ROSCIUS for the moiety of what he had received.
One cannot but observe, says Dr. Middleton, from Cicero's pleading,
the wonderful esteem and reputation in which Roscius then
flourished. Has Roscius, says he, defrauded his partner? Can such a
stain stick upon such a man; a man who, I speak it with confidence,
has more integrity than skill, more veracity than experience? a man
whom the people of Rome know to be a better citizen than he is an
actor; and, while he makes the first figure on the stage for his
art, is worthy of a seat in the senate for his virtue. Quem
populus Romanus meliorem virum quam histrionem esse arbitratur; qui
ita dignissimus est scená propter artificium, ut dignissimus
sit curiá propter abstinentiam. Pro Roscio Comœdo,
s. 17 In another place, Cicero says, he was such an artist, as to
seem the only one fit to appear on the stage; yet such a man, as to
seem the only one who should not come upon it at all. Cum
artifex ejusmodi sit, ut solus dignus videatur esse qui in
scená spectetur; tum vir ejusmodi est, ut solus dignus
videatur, qui eo non accedat. Pro Publ. Quinctio, s. 78. What
Cicero has said in his pleadings might be thought oratorical,
introduced merely to serve the cause, if we did not find the
comedian praised with equal warmth in the dialogue DE ORATORE. It
is there said of Roscius, that every thing he did was perfect in
the kind, and executed with consummate grace, with a secret charm,
that touched, affected, and delighted the whole audience: insomuch,
that when a man excelled in any other profession, it was grown into
a proverb to call him, THE ROSCIUS OF HIS ART. Videtisne, quam
nihil ab eo nisi perfectè, nihil nisi cum summâ
venustate fiat? nihil, nisi ita ut deceat, et uti omnes moveat,
atque delectet? Itaque hoc jam diu est consecutus, ut in quo
quisque artificio excelleret, is in suo genere Roscius diceretur.
De Orat. lib. i. s. 130. After so much honourable testimony,
one cannot but wonder why the DOCTUS ROSCIUS of Horace is mentioned
in this Dialogue with an air of disparagement. It may be, that
APER, the speaker in this passage, was determined to degrade the
orators of antiquity; and the comedian was, therefore, to expect no
quarter. Dacier, in his notes on the Epistle to Augustus, observes
that Roscius wrote a book, in which he undertook to prove to
Cicero, that in all the stores of eloquence there were not so many
different expressions for one and the same thing, as in the
dramatic art there were modes of action, and casts of countenance,
to mark the sentiment, and convey it to the mind with its due
degree of emotion. It is to be lamented that such a book has not
come down to us. It would, perhaps, be more valuable than the best
treatise of rhetoric.
Ambivius Turpio acted in most of Terence's plays, and seems to
have been a manager of the theatre. Cicero, in the treatise De
Senectute, says: He, who sat near him in the first rows,
received the greatest pleasure; but still, those, who were at the
further end of the theatre, were delighted with him. Turpione
Ambivio magis delectatur, qui in primâ caveâ spectat;
delectatur tamen etiam qui in ultimâ.
 ACCIUS and
PACUVIUS flourished at Rome about the middle of the sixth century
from the foundation of the city. Accius, according to Horace, was
held to be a poet of a sublime genius, and Pacuvius (who lived to
be ninety years old) was respected for his age and profound
learning.
Ambigitur quoties uter utro sit
prior, aufert
PACUVIUS docti famam senis,
ACCIUS alti.
EPIST. AD AUG. ver.
56.
Velleius Paterculus says, that ACCIUS was thought equal to the
best writers of the Greek tragedy. He had not, indeed, the diligent
touches of the polishing hand, which we see in the poets of Athens,
but he had more spirit and vigour. Accius usque in
Græcorum comparationem erectus. In illis limæ in hoc
penè plus videri fuisse sanguinis. He is often quoted by
Cicero in his book De Naturâ Deorum. But after all, it
is from the great critic, who gives the best account of the Roman
poets, orators, and historians, that we are to take the genuine
character of ACCIUS and PACUVIUS, since their works are lost in the
general mass of ancient literature. They were both excellent tragic
poets: elevation of sentiment, grandeur of expression, and dignity
of character, stamped a value on their productions; and yet, we
must not expect to find the grace and elegance of genuine
composition. To give the finishing hand to their works was not
their practice: the defect, however, is not to be imputed to them;
it was the vice of the age. Force and dignity are the
characteristics of ACCIUS; while the critics, who wish to be
thought deep and profound, admire PACUVIUS for his extensive
learning. Tragœdiæ scriptores Accius atque Pacuvius,
clarissimi sententiarum verborumque pondere, et auctoritate
personarum. Cæterum nitor, et summa in excolendis operibus
manus, magis videri potest temporibus, quam ipsis defuisse. Virium
tamen Accio plus tribuitur; Pacuvium videri doctiorem, qui esse
docti affectant, volunt. Quintil. lib. x. cap. 1. It was the
fashion in Horace's time to prefer the writers of the old school to
the new race that gave so much lustre to the Augustan age. In
opposition to such erroneous criticism, the poet pronounces a
decided judgement, which seems to be confirmed by the opinion of
Quintilian.
Si quædam nimis
antiquè, si pleraque durè
Dicere credit eos, ignavè
multa fatetur,
Et sapit, et mecum facit, et Jove
judicat æquo.
EPIST. AD AUGUST. ver.
66.

But that sometimes their style
uncouth appears,
And their harsh numbers rudely
hurt our ears;
Or that full flatly flows the
languid line,
He, who owns this, has Jove's
assent and mine.
FRANCIS'S HORACE.
 Lucan was nephew
to Seneca, and a poet of great celebrity. He was born, in the reign
of Caligula, at Corduba in Spain. His superior genius made Nero his
mortal enemy. He was put to death by that inhuman emperor, A.U.C.
818, in the twenty-seventh year of his age. See the Annals,
b. xv. s. 70. As a writer, Quintilian says, that he possessed an
ardent genius, impetuous, rapid, and remarkable for the vigour of
his sentiments: but he chooses to class him with the orators,
rather than the poets. Lucanus ardens, et concitatus, et
sententiis clarissimus; et, ut dicam quod sentio, magis oratoribus
quam poetis annumerandus. Lib. x. cap. 1. Scaliger, on the
other hand, contends that Lucan was a true poet, and that the
critics do but trifle, when they object that he wrote history, not
an epic poem. STRADA in his Prolusions, has given, among other
imitations, a narrative in Lucan's manner; and, though he thinks
that poet has not the skill of Virgil, he places him on the summit
of Parnassus, managing his Pegasus with difficulty, often in danger
of falling from the ridge of a precipice, yet delighting his reader
with the pleasure of seeing him escape. This is the true character
of Lucan. The love of liberty was his ruling passion. It is but
justice to add, that his sentiments, when free from
antithesis and the Ovidian manner, are not excelled
by any poet of antiquity. From him, as well as from Virgil and
Horace, the orator is required to cull such passages as will help
to enrich his discourse; and the practice is recommended by
Quintilian, who observes, that Cicero, Asinius Pollio, and others,
frequently cited verses from Ennius, Accius, Pacuvius, and Terence,
in order to grace their speeches with polite literature, and
enliven the imagination of their hearers. By those poetic
insertions, the ear is relieved from the harsh monotony of the
forum; and the poets, cited occasionally, serve by their authority
to establish the proposition advanced by the speaker. Nam
præcipue quidem apud Ciceronem, frequenter tamen apud Asinium
etiam, et cæteros, qui sunt proximi, vidimus ENNII, ACCII,
PACUVII, TERENTII et aliorum inseri versus, summâ non
eruditionis modò gratiâ, sed etiam jucunditatis; cum
poeticis voluptatibus aures a forensi asperitate respirent, quibus
accedit non mediocris utilitas, cum sententiis eorum, velut
quibusdam testimoniis, quæ proposuere confirmant.
Quintil. lib. i. cap. 8.

Section XXI.
 There is in
this place a blunder of the copyists, which almost makes the
sentence unintelligible. The translator, without entering into
minute controversies, has, upon all such occasions, adopted what
appeared, from the context, to be the most probable sense. It
remains, therefore, to enquire, who were the several orators here
enumerated. CANUTIUS may be the person mentioned by Suetonius De
Claris Rhetoribus. Cicero says of ARRIUS, that he was a
striking proof of what consequence it was at Rome to be useful to
others, and always ready to be subservient to their honour, or to
ward off danger. For, by that assiduity, Arrius raised himself from
a low beginning to wealth and honours, and was even ranked in the
number of orators, though void of learning, and without genius, or
abilities. Loco infimo natus, et honores, et pecuniam, et
gratiam consecutus, etiam in patronorum, sine doctrinâ, sine
ingenio, aliquem numerum pervenerat. De Claris Orat. s. 243.
FURNIUS may be supposed, not without probability, to be the person
with whom Cicero corresponded. Epist. ad Familiares, lib. x.
ep. 25, 26. With regard to Terrianus we are left in the dark. The
commentators offer various conjectures; but conjecture is often a
specious amusement; the ingenious folly of men, who take pains to
bewilder themselves, and reason only to shew their useless
learning.
 The puny
orators are said to be in an infirmary, like sickly men, who were
nothing but skin and bone. These, says Cicero, were admirers of the
Attic manner; but it were to be wished that they had the wholesome
blood, not merely the bones, of their favourite declaimers.
Attico genere dicendi se gaudere dicunt; atqui utinam
imitarentur nec ossa solum, sed etiam et sanguinem. Cicero
De Claris Oratoribus.
 What is here
said of Calvus is not confirmed by the judgement of Quintilian. See
s. xvii. note. His orations, which were
extant at the time of this Dialogue, are now totally lost.
 For
Quintilian's opinion of Cælius, see s. xvii. note.
 Here again
Quintilian, that candid and able judge, has given a different
opinion. See s. xvii. note. It may be
proper to add the testimony of Velleius Paterculus. Cæsar, he
says, had an elevation of soul, that towered above humanity, and
was almost incredible; the rapid progress of his wars, his firmness
in the hour of danger, and the grandeur of his vast conceptions,
bore a near affinity to Alexander, but to Alexander neither drunk,
nor mad with passion. Animo super humanam et naturam, et fidem
evectus, celeritate bellandi, patientiâ periculorum,
magnitudine cogitationum; magno illi Alexandro, sed sobrio neque
iracundo, simillimus. Vel. Patercul. lib. ii. s. 41. Even
Cicero tells us, that, of all the eminent orators, he was the
person who spoke the Latin language in the greatest purity, and
arrived at that consummate perfection by study, by diligent
application, and his thorough knowledge of all polite literature.
Illum omnium ferè oratorum Latinè loqui
elegantissimè: ut esset perfecta illa benè loquendi
laus, multis litteris, et iis quidem reconditis et exquisitis,
summoque studio et diligentiâ est consecutus. De Claris
Orat. s. 252.
 Cæsar's
speech for Decius the Samnite, and all his other productions
(except the Commentaries), are totally lost.
 This speech of
Brutus is also lost with his other works. Cicero says, he heard him
plead the cause of Dejotarus with great elegance, and a flow of
harmonious periods. Causam Dejotari, fidelissimi atque optimi
regis, ornatissimè et copiosissimè a Bruto me audisse
defensam. De Claris Orat. s. 21. He tells us in another place,
that Cæsar observed of Brutus, that whatever he desired, he
desired with ardour; and therefore, in the cause of Dejotarus, he
exerted himself with warmth, with vehemence, and great freedom of
language. Quidquid vult, valdè vult; ideoque, cum pro
rege Dejotaro dixerit, valdè vehementer eum visum, et
liberè dicere. Ad Attic. lib. xiv. ep. 1. The same
Dejotarus was afterwards defended by Cicero before Cæsar
himself. See the Oration pro Rege Dejotaro.
 See what is
said of Asinius Pollio, s. xii. note.
 Pliny the
younger has the same metaphorical allusions, which we here find in
the Dialogue. Speaking of the difference between the oratorial and
historical style; the latter, he says, may be content with the
bones, the muscles, and the nerves; the former must have the
prominence of the flesh, the brawny vigour, and the flowing mane.
Habent quidem oratio et historia multa communia, sed plura
diversa in his ipsis, quæ communia videntur. Narrat sane
illa, narrat hæc, sed aliter. Huic pleraque humilia, et
sordida, et ex medio petita: illi omnia recondita, splendida,
excelsa conveniunt. Hanc sæpius ossa, musculi, nervi; illam
tori quidam, et quasi jubæ decent. Lib. v. ep. 8.
 Messala
Corvinus has been often mentioned. See for him s. xii. note.

Section XXII.
 The words
sententia and sensus were technical terms with the
critics of antiquity. Quintilian gives the distinct meaning of
each, with his usual precision. According to the established usage,
the word sensus signified our ideas or conceptions, as they
rise in the mind: by sententia was intended, a proposition,
in the close of a period, so expressed, as to dart a sudden
brilliancy, for that reason called lumen orationis. He says,
these artificial ornaments, which the ancients used but sparingly,
were the constant practice of the modern orators. Consuetudo jam
tenuit, ut mente concepta, SENSUS vocaremus; lumina autem,
præcipuèque in clausulis posita, SENTENTIAS.
Quæ minus crebra apud antiquos, nostris temporibus modo
carent. Lib. viii. cap. 5. These luminous sentences, Quintilian
says, may be called the eyes of an oration; but eyes are not to be
placed in every part, lest the other members should lose their
function. Ego vero hæc lumina orationis velut oculos
quosdam esse eloquentiæ credo: sed neque oculos esse toto
corpore velim, ne cætera membra suum officium perdant.
Lib. viii, cap. 5. As Cowley says,
Jewels at nose and lips but ill
appear;
Rather than all things, wit let
none be there.
 In order to
form a good style, the sentence should always be closed with
variety, strength, and harmony. The ancient rhetoricians held this
to be so essentially requisite, that Quintilian has given it a full
discussion. That, he says, which offends the ear, will not easily
gain admission to the mind. Words should be fitted to their places,
so that they may aptly coalesce with one another. In building, the
most ill shapen stones may be conveniently fixed; and in like
manner, a good style must have proper words in proper places, all
arranged in order, and closing the sentence with grace and harmony.
Nihil intrare potest in affectum, quod in aure, velut quodam
vestibulo, statim offendit. Non enim ad pedes verba dimensa sunt;
ideoque ex loco transferuntur in locum, ut jungantur quo congruunt
maximè; sicut in structurâ saxorum rudium etiam ipsa
enormitas invenit cui applicari, et in quo possit insistere.
Felicissimus tamen sermo est, cui et rectus ordo, et apta junctura,
et cum his numerus opportunè cadens contingit. Quintil.
lib. ix. cap. 4.

Section XXIII.
 The
remark in this place alludes to a passage in the oration against
PISO, where we find a frivolous stroke of false wit. Cicero
reproaches Piso for his dissolute manners, and his scandalous
debauchery. Who, he says, in all that time, saw you sober? Who
beheld you doing any one thing, worthy of a liberal mind? Did you
once appear in public? The house of your colleague resounded with
songs and minstrels: he himself danced naked in the midst of his
wanton company; and while he wheeled about with alacrity in
the circular motion of the dance, he never once thought of
THE WHEEL OF FORTUNE. Quis te illis diebus sobrium, quis agentem
aliquid, quod esset libero dignum? Quis denique in publico vidit?
Cum collegæ tui domus cantu et cymbalis personaret; cumque
ipse nudus in convivio saltaret, in quo ne tum quidem, cum illum
suum SALTATORIUM VERSARET ORBEM, FORTUNÆ ROTAM
pertimescebat. Oratio in Pisonem, prima pars, s. 22. Delph.
edit. vol. iii.
 The
passage here alluded to, presents us with a double pun. The word
Verres is the name of a man, and also signifies a boar
pig, as we read in Horace, Verris obliquum meditantis
ictum. Lib. iii. ode 22. The word jus is likewise of
twofold meaning, importing law and sauce, or broth;
tepidumque ligurierit jus. Lib. i. sat. 3. The objection to
Cicero is, that playing on both the words, and taking advantage of
their ambiguous meaning, he says it could not be matter of wonder
that the Verrian jus was such bad HOG-SOUP. The wit (if it
deserves that name) is mean enough; but, in justice to Cicero, it
should be remembered, that he himself calls it frigid, and says,
that the men, who in their anger could be so very facetious, as to
blame the priest who did not sacrifice such a hog (Verres),
were idle and ridiculous. He adds, that he should not descend to
repeat such sayings (for they were neither witty, nor worthy of
notice in such a cause), had he not thought it material to shew,
that the iniquity of VERRES was, in the mouth of the vulgar, a
subject of ridicule, and a proverbial joke. Hinc illi homines
erant, qui etiam ridiculi inveniebantur ex dolore: quorum alii, ut
audistis, negabant mirandum esse, JUS tam nequam esse
VERRINUM: alii etiam frigidiores erant; sed quia stomachabantur,
ridiculi videbantur esse, cum SACERDOTEM execrabantur,
qui VERREM tam nequam reliquisset, Quæ ego non
commemorarem (neque enim perfacetè dicta, neque porro hac
severitate digna sunt) nisi vos id vellem recordari, istius
nequitiam et iniquitatem tum in ore vulgi, atque communibus
proverbiis esse versatam. In Verrem, lib. i. pars tertia, s.
121.

Quintilian acknowledges that the words esse videatur (it seems
to be) occur frequently in Cicero's Orations. He adds, that he
knew several, who fancied that they had performed wonders, when
they placed that phrase in the close of a sentence. Noveram
quosdam, qui se pulchrè expressisse genus illud
cælestis hujus in dicendo viri sibi viderentur, si in
clausulâ posuissent esse videatur. Quintil. lib. x. cap.
2.
 The
species of composition, called satire, was altogether of Roman
growth. Lucilius had the honour of being the inventor; and he
succeeded so well, that even in Quintilian's time, his admirers
preferred him not only to the writers who followed in the same way,
but to all poets of every denomination. Lucilius quosdam ita
deditos sibi adhuc habet imitatores, ut eum non ejusdem modo
operis, sed omnibus poetis præferre non dubitent. Lib. x.
cap. 1. The great critic, however, pronounces judgement in favour
of Horace, who, he says, is more terse and pure; a more acute
observer of life, and qualified by nature to touch the ridicule of
the manners with the nicest hand. Multo est tersior, ac purus
magis Horatius, et ad notandos hominum mores
præcipuus.
 Lucretius
is not without his partisans at this hour. Many of the French
critics speak of him with rapture; and, in England, Dr. Wharton of
Winchester seems to be at the head of his admirers. He does not
scruple to say that Lucretius had more spirit, fire, and energy,
more of the vivida vis animi, than any of the Roman poets.
It is neither safe nor desirable to differ from so fine a genius as
Dr. Wharton. The passages which he has quoted from his favourite
poet, shew great taste in the selection. It should be remembered,
however, that Quintilian does not treat Lucretius with the same
passionate fondness. He places Virgil next to Homer; and the rest,
he says, of the Roman poets follow at a great distance. MACER and
LUCRETIUS deserve to be read: they have handled their respective
subjects with taste and elegance; but Macer has no elevation, and
Lucretius is not easily understood. Cæteri omnes longe
sequuntur. Nam MACER et LUCRETIUS legendi quidem; elegantes in
suâ quisque materiâ, sed alter humilis, alter
difficilis. Lib. x. cap. 1. Statius, the poet, who flourished
in the reign of Domitian, knew the value of Lucretius, and, in one
line, seems to have given his true character; et docti furor
arduus Lucreti; but had he been to decide between him and
Virgil, it is probable, that he would say to Lucretius, as he did
to himself,
——Nec tu divinam
Æneida tenta,
Sed longe sequere, et vestigia
semper adora.
THEBAIDOS lib. xii. ver.
816.

 Aufidius
Bassus and Servilius Nonianus were writers of history. Bassus,
according to Quintilian, deserved great commendation, particularly
in his History of the German war. In some of his other works he
fell short of himself. Servilius Nonianus was known to Quintilian,
and, in that critic's judgement, was an author of considerable
merit, sententious in his manner, but more diffuse than becomes the
historic character. See Quintilian, lib. x. cap. 1. The death of
SERVILIUS, an eminent orator and historian, is mentioned by Tacitus
in the Annals, b. xiv. s. 19; but the additional name of
NONIANUS is omitted. The passage, however, is supposed to relate to
the person commended by Quintilian. He died in the reign of Nero,
A.U.C. 812; of the Christian æra 59.
 Varro was
universally allowed to be the most learned of the Romans. He wrote
on several subjects with profound erudition. Quintilian says, he
was completely master of the Latin language, and thoroughly
conversant in the antiquities of Greece and Rome. His works will
enlarge our sphere of knowledge, but can add nothing to eloquence.
Peritissimus linguæ Latinæ, et omnis antiquitatis,
et rerum Græcarum, nostrarumque; plus tamen scientiæ
collaturus, quam eloquentiæ. Lib. x. cap. 1.
Sisenna, we are told by Cicero, was a man of learning, well
skilled in the Roman language, acquainted with the laws and
constitution of his country, and possessed of no small share of
wit; but eloquence was not his element, and his practice in the
forum was inconsiderable. See De Claris Oratoribus, s. 228.
In a subsequent part of the same work, Cicero says, that Sisenna
was of opinion, that to use uncommon words was the perfection of
style. To prove this he relates a pleasant anecdote. One Caius
Rufus carried on a prosecution. Sisenna appeared for the defendant;
and, to express his contempt of his adversary, said that many parts
of the charge deserved to be spit upon. For this purpose he coined
so strange a word, that the prosecutor implored the protection of
the judges. I do not, said he, understand Sisenna; I am
circumvented; I fear that some snare is laid for me. What does he
mean by sputatilica? I know that sputa is spittle:
but what is tilica? The court laughed at the oddity of a
word so strangely compounded. Rufio accusante Chritilium,
Sisenna defendens dixit quædam ejus SPUTATILICA esse crimina.
Tum Caius Rufius, Circumvenior, inquit, judices, nisi subvenitis.
Sisenna quid dicat nescio; metuo insidias. SPUTATILICA! quid est
hoc? Sputa quid sit, scio; tilica nescio. Maximi
risus, De Claris Oratoribus, s. 260. Whether this was the same
Sisenna, who is said in the former quotation to have been a correct
speaker, does not appear with any degree of certainty.
 For the
character of Secundus, see s. ii. note.

Quintilian says, the merit of a fine writer flourishes after his
death, for envy does not go down to posterity. Ad posteros enim
virtus durabit, nec perveniet invidia. Lib. iii. c. 1. Envy is
always sure to pursue living merit; and therefore, Cleo observes to
Alexander, that Hercules and Bacchus were not numbered among the
gods, till they conquered the malignity of their contemporaries.
Nec Herculem, nec Patrem Liberum, prius dicatos deos,
quàm vicissent secum viventium invidiam. Quintus
Curtius, lib. viii. s. 18. Pliny the younger has a beautiful
epistle on this subject. After praising, in the highest manner, the
various works of Pompeius Saturninus, he says to his correspondent,
Let it be no objection to such an author, that he is still living.
If he flourished in a distant part of the world, we should not only
procure his books, but we should have his picture in our houses:
and shall his fame be tarnished, because we have the man before our
eyes? Shall malignity make us cease to admire him, because we see
him, hear him, esteem and love him? Neque enim debet operibus
ejus obesse, QUOD VIVIT. An si inter eos, quos nunquam vidimus,
floruisset, non solum libros ejus, verum etiam imagines
conquireremus, ejusdem nunc honor præsentis et gratia quasi
satietate languescet? At hoc pravum malignumque est, non admirari
hominem admiratione dignissimum, quia videre, alloqui, audire,
complecti, nec laudare tantum, verum etiam amare contingit.
Lib. i. ep. 16.

Section XXIV.
 In the
Dialogues of Plato, and others of the academic school, the ablest
philosophers occasionally supported a wrong hypothesis, in order to
provoke a thorough discussion of some important question.
 Cicero was
killed on the seventh of December, in the consulship of Hirtius and
Pansa, A.U.C. 711; before Christ, 43. From that time to the sixth
of Vespasian the number of years is exactly 117; though in the
Dialogue said to be 120. See s. xvii. note.

Section XXV.
 See Plutarch's
Lives of Lysias, Lycurgus, Demosthenes, and Hyperides. See also the
elegant translation of the Orations of Lysias, by Dr. Gillies.
 For
Quintilian's opinion of Cæsar's eloquence, see s. xvii. note. To what is there said may be added the
authority of Cicero, who fairly owns, that Cæsar's constant
habit of speaking his language with purity and correctness,
exempted him from all the vices of the corrupt style adopted by
others. To that politeness of expression which every well-bred
citizen, though he does not aspire to be an orator, ought to
practise, when Cæsar adds the splendid ornaments of
eloquence, he may then be said to place the finest pictures in the
best light. In his manner there is nothing mechanical, nothing of
professional craft: his voice is impressive, and his action
dignified. To air these qualities he unites a certain majesty of
mien and figure, that bespeaks a noble mind. Cæsar autem
rationem adhibens, consuetudinem vitiosam et corruptam purâ
et incorruptâ consuetudine emendat. Itaque cum ad hanc
elegantiam verborum Latinorum, quæ etiam si orator non sis,
et sis ingenuus civis Romanus, tamen necessaria est, adjungit illa
oratorio, ornamenta dicendi; tum videtur tanquam tabulas bene
pictas collocare in bono lumine. Hanc cum habeat præcipuam
laudem in communibus, non video cui debeat cedere. Splendidam
quamdam, minimeque veteratoriam rationem dicendi tenet, voce, motu:
formâ etiam magnificâ, et generosâ quodammodo. De
Claris Oratoribus, s. 261.
For Cælius, see s. xvii. note;
and for Brutus, the same section, note.
 Servius Galba
has been already mentioned, s. xviii. note. Caius Lælius was consul A.U.C. 614;
before the Christian æra, 140. He was the intimate friend of
Scipio, and the patron of Lucilius, the first Roman satirist. See
Horace, lib. ii. sat. i. ver. 71.
Quin ubi se a vulgo et
scenâ in secretâ remôrant
Virtus Scipiadæ, et mitis
sapientia Lælî,
Nugari cum illo, et discincti
ludere, donec
Decoqueretur olus,
soliti.

When Scipio's virtue, and of
milder vein
When Lælius' wisdom, from
the busy scene
And crowd of life, the vulgar and
the great.
Could with their favourite
satirist retreat,
Lightly they laugh'd at many an
idle jest,
Until their frugal feast of herbs
was drest.
FRANCIS'S HORACE.
It is probable, that the harsh manner of Lucilius, durus
componere versus, infected the eloquence of Lælius, since
we find in Cicero, that his style was unpolished, and had much of
the rust of antiquity. Multo tamen vetustior et horridior ille
quam Scipio, et, cum sint in dicendo variæ, voluntates,
delectari mihi magis antiquitate videtur, et lubenter verbis etiam
uti paulo magis priscis Lælius. De Claris Oratoribus, s.
83.

Section XXVI.
 For an
account of Caius Gracchus, see s. xviii. note.
 For Lucius
Crassus, see s. xviii. note 
 The false taste of Mæcenas has been noted by the poets
and critics who flourished after his death. His affected
prettinesses are compared to the prim curls, in which women and
effeminate men tricked out their hair. Seneca, who was himself
tainted with affectation, has left a beautiful epistle on the very
question that makes the main subject of the present Dialogue. He
points out the causes of the corrupt taste that debauched the
eloquence of those times and imputes the mischief to the degeneracy
of the manners. Whatever the man was, such was the orator. Talis
oratio quails vita. When ancient discipline relaxed, luxury
succeeded, and language became delicate, brilliant, spangled with
conceits. Simplicity was laid aside, and quaint expressions grew
into fashion. Does the mind sink into languor, the body moves
reluctantly. Is the man softened into effeminacy, you see it in his
gait. Is he quick and eager, he walks with alacrity. The powers of
the understanding are affected in the same manner. Having laid this
down as his principle, Seneca proceeds to describe the soft
delicacy of Mæcenas, and he finds the same vice in his
phraseology. He cites a number of the lady-like terms, which the
great patron of letters considered as exquisite beauties. In all
this, says he, we see the man who walked the streets of Rome in his
open and flowing robe. Nonne statim, cum hæc legis,
occurrit hunc esse, qui solutis tunicis in urbe semper
incesserit? Seneca, epist. cxiv. What he has said of
Mæcenas is perfectly just. The fopperies of that celebrated
minister are in this Dialogue called CALAMISTRI; an allusion
borrowed from Cicero, who praises the beautiful simplicity of
Cæsar's Commentaries, and says there were men of a
vicious taste, who wanted to apply the curling-iron, that
is, to introduce the glitter of conceit and antithesis in the place
of truth and nature. Commentarios quosdam scripsit rerum suarum,
valde quidem probandos: nudi enim sunt, et recti, et venusti, omni
ornatu orationis, tanquam veste, detracto. Ineptis gratum fortasse
fecit, qui volunt illa CALAMISTRIS inurere. Cicero De
Claris Orat. s. 262.
 Who Gallio
was, is not clearly settled by the commentators. Quintilian, lib.
iii. cap. 1, makes mention of Gallio, who wrote a treatise of
eloquence; and in the Annals, b. xv. s. 73, we find Junius
Gallio, the brother of Seneca; but whether either of them is the
person here intended, remains uncertain. Whoever he was, his
eloquence was a tinkling cymbal. Quintilian says of such orators,
who are all inflated, tumid, corrupt, and jingling, that their
malady does not proceed from a full and rich constitution, but from
mere infirmity; for,
As in bodies, thus in souls we
find,
What wants in blood and spirits,
swell'd with wind.
Nam tumidos, et corruptos, et tinnulos, et quocumque alio
cacozeliæ genere peccantes, certum habeo, non virium, sed
infirmitatis vitio laborare: ut corpora non robore, sed valetudine
inflantur. Quintil. lib. ii. cap. 3.
 Pliny
declares, without ceremony, that he was ashamed of the corrupt
effeminate style that disgraced the courts of justice, and made him
think of withdrawing from the forum. He calls it sing-song, and
says that nothing but musical instruments could be added. Pudet
referre, quæ quam fractâ pronunciatione dicantur;
quibus quam teneris clamoribus excipiantur. Plausus tantum, ac sola
cymbala et tympana, illis canticis desunt. Pliny, lib. ii.
epist. 14. The chief aim of Persius in his first satire is levelled
against the bad poets of his time, and also the spurious orators,
who enervated their eloquence by antithesis, far-fetched metaphors,
and points of wit, delivered with the softest tone of voice, and
ridiculous airs of affectation.
Fur es, ait Pedio: Pedius quid?
Crimina rasis
Librat in antithetis; doctus
posuisse figuras
Laudatur. Bellum hoc! hoc bellum!
an Romule ceves?
Men' moveat quippe, et, cantet si
naufragus, assem
Protulerim? Cantas, cum
fractâ te in trabe pictum
Ex humero portes?
PERSIUS, sat. i. ver.
85.

Theft, says the accuser, to thy
charge I lay,
O Pedius. What does gentle Pedius
say?
Studious to please the genius of
the times,
With periods, points, and tropes,
he slurs his crimes.
He lards with flourishes his long
harangue:
'Tis fine, say'st thou. What! to
be prais'd, and hang?
Effeminate Roman! shall such
stuff prevail,
To tickle thee, and make thee wag
thy tail?
Say, should a shipwreck'd sailor
sing his woe,
Wouldst thou be mov'd to pity,
and bestow
An alms? What's more prepost'rous
than to see
A merry beggar? wit in
misery!
DRYDEN'S PERSIUS.
 For Cassius
Severus, see s. xix. note.
 Gabinianus
was a teacher of rhetoric in the reign of Vespasian. Eusebius, in
his Chronicon, eighth of Vespasian, says that Gabinianus, a
celebrated rhetorician, was a teacher of eloquence in Gaul.
Gabinianus, celeberrimi nominis rhetor, in Galliâ
docuit. His admirers deemed him another Cicero, and, after him,
all such orators were called CICERONES GABISTIANI.

Section XXVIII.
 In
order to brand and stigmatise the Roman matrons who committed the
care of their infant children to hired nurses, Tacitus observes,
that no such custom was known among the savages of Germany. See
Manners of the Germans, s. xx. See also Quintilian, on the
subject of education, lib. i. cap. 2 and 3.

Cornelia, the mother of the two Gracchi, was daughter to the first
Scipio Africanus. The sons, Quintilian says, owed much of their
eloquence to the care and institutions of their mother, whose taste
and learning were fully displayed in her letters, which were then
in the hands of the public. Nam Gracchorum eloquentiæ
multum contulisse accepimus Corneliam matrem, cujus doctissimus
sermo in posteros quoque est epistolis traditus. Quint. lib. i.
cap. 1. To the same effect Cicero: Fuit Gracchus
diligentiâ Corneliæ matris a puero doctus, et
Græcis litteris eruditus. De Claris Orat. s. 104. Again,
Cicero says, We have read the letters of Cornelia, the mother of
the Gracchi, from which it appears, that the sons were educated,
not so much in the lap of their mother, as her conversation.
Legimus epistolas Corneliæ, matris Gracchorum: apparet
filios non tam in gremio educatos, quam in sermone matris. De
Claris Orat. s. 211. Pliny the elder informs us that a statue
was erected to her memory, though Cato the Censor declaimed against
shewing so much honour to women, even in the provinces. But with
all his vehemence he could not prevent it in the city of Rome.
Pliny, lib. xxxiv. s. 14.
 For
Aurelia, the mother of Julius Cæsar, see The Genealogical
Table of the Cæsars, No. 2.
 For
Atia, the mother of Augustus, see Genealogical Table of the
Cæsars, No. 14. As another instance of maternal care,
Tacitus informs us that Julia Procilla superintended the education
of her son. See Life of Agricola, s. iv.

Section XXIX.
 Quintilian
thinks the first elements of education so highly material, that he
has two long chapters on the subject. He requires, in the first
place, that the language of the nurses should be pure and correct.
Their manners are of great importance, but, he adds, let them speak
with propriety. It is to them that the infant first attends; he
listens, and endeavours to imitate them. The first colour, imbibed
by yarn or thread, is sure to last. What is bad, generally adheres
tenaciously. Let the child, therefore, not learn in his infancy,
what he must afterwards take pains to unlearn. Ante omnia, ne
sit vitiosus sermo nutricibus. Et morum quidem in his haud
dubiè prior ratio est; rectè tamen etiam loquantur.
Has primùm audiet puer; harum verba effingere imitando
conabitur. Et naturâ tenacissimi sumus eorum, quæ
rudibus annis percipimus; nec lanarum colores, quibus simplex ille
candor mutatus est, elui possunt. Et hæc ipsa magis
pertinaciter hærent, quæ deteriora sunt. Non assuescat
ergo, ne dum infans quidem est, sermoni, qui dediscendus est.
Quint. lib. i. cap. 1. Plutarch has a long discourse on the
breeding of children, in which all mistakes are pointed out, and
the best rules enforced with great acuteness of observation.
 Juvenal has
one entire satire on the subject of education:
Nil dictu fœdum visuque
hæc limina tangat,
Intra quæ puer est. Procul
hinc, procul inde puellæ
Lenonum, et cantus pernoctantis
parasiti.
Maxima debetur puero
reverentia.
SAT. xiv. ver. 44.

Suffer no lewdness, no indecent
speech,
Th' apartment of the tender youth
to reach.
Far be from thence the glutton
parasite,
Who sings his drunken catches all
the night.
Boys from their parents may this
rev'rence claim.
DRYDEN'S JUVENAL.
 The rage of
the Romans for the diversions of the theatre, and public spectacles
of every kind, is often mentioned by Horace, Juvenal, and other
writers under the emperors. Seneca says, that, at one time, three
ways were wanted to as many different theatres: tribus eodem
tempore theatris viæ postulantur. And again, the most
illustrious of the Roman youth are no better than slaves to the
pantomimic performers. Ostendam nobilissimos juvenes mancipia
pantomimorum. Epist. 47. It was for this reason that Petronius
lays it down as a rule to be observed by the young student, never
to list himself in the parties and factions of the theatre:
——Neve plausor in
scenâ
Sedeat redemptus,
histrioniæ addictus.
It is well known, that theatrical parties distracted the Roman
citizens, and rose almost to phrensy. They were distinguished by
the green and the blue, Caligula, as we read in
Suetonius, attached himself to the former, and was so fond of the
charioteers, who wore green liveries, that he lived for a
considerable time in the stables, where their horses were kept.
Prasinæ factioni ita addictus et deditus, ut cœnaret
in stabulo assidue et maneret. Life of Caligula, s. 55.
Montesquieu reckons such party-divisions among the causes that
wrought the downfall of the empire. Constantinople, he says, was
split into two factions, the green and the blue,
which owed their origin to the inclination of the people to favour
one set of charioteers in the circus rather than another. These two
parties raged in every city throughout the empire, and their fury
rose in proportion to the number of inhabitants. Justinian favoured
the blues, who became so elate with pride, that they
trampled on the laws. All ties of friendship, all natural
affection, and all relative duties, were extinguished. Whole
families were destroyed; and the empire was a scene of anarchy and
wild contention. He, who felt himself capable of the most atrocious
deeds, declared himself a BLUE, and the GREENS were massacred with
impunity. Montesquieu, Grandeur et Décadence des
Romains, chap. xx.
 Quintilian,
in his tenth book, chap. 1. has given a full account of the best
Greek and Roman poets, orators, and historians; and in b. ii. ch.
6, he draws up a regular scheme for the young student to pursue in
his course of reading. There are, he says, two rocks, on which they
may split. The first, by being led by some fond admirer of
antiquity to set too high a value on the manner of Cato and the
Gracchi; for, in that commerce, they will be in danger of growing
dry, harsh, and rugged. The strong conception of those men will be
beyond the reach of tender minds. Their style, indeed, may be
copied; and the youth may flatter himself, when he has contracted
the rust of antiquity, that he resembles the illustrious orators of
a former age. On the other hand, the florid decorations and false
glitter of the moderns may have a secret charm, the more dangerous,
and seductive, as the petty flourishes of our new way of writing
may prove acceptable to the youthful mind. Duo autem genera
maximè cavenda pueris puto: unum, ne quis eos antiquitatis
nimius admirator in Gracchorum, Catonisque, et aliorum similium
lectione durescere velit. Erunt enim horridi atque jejuni. Nam
neque vim eorum adhuc intellectu consequentur; et elocutione,
quæ tum sine dubio erat optima, sed nostris temporibus
aliena, contenti, quod est pessimum, similes sibi magnis viris
videbuntur. Alterum, quod huic diversum est, ne recentis hujus
lasciviæ flosculis capti, voluptate quâdam pravâ
deliniantur, ut prædulce illud genus, et puerilibus ingeniis
hoc gratius, quo propius est, adament. Such was the doctrine of
Quintilian. His practice, we may be sure, was consonant to his own
rules. Under such a master the youth of Rome might be initiated in
science, and formed to a just taste for eloquence and legitimate
composition; but one man was not equal to the task. The
rhetoricians and pedagogues of the age preferred the novelty and
meretricious ornaments of the style then in vogue.

Section XXX.
 This is the
treatise, or history of the most eminent orators (DE CLARIS
ORATORIBUS), which has been so often cited in the course of these
notes. It is also entitled BRUTUS; a work replete with the soundest
criticism, and by its variety and elegance always charming.
 Quintus Mucius
Scævola was the great lawyer of his time. Cicero draws a
comparison between him and Crassus. They were both engaged, on
opposite sides, in a cause before the CENTUMVIRI. Crassus proved
himself the best lawyer among the orators of that day, and
Scævola the most eloquent of the lawyers. Ut eloquentium
juris peritissimus Crassus; jurisperitorum eloquentissimus
Scævola putaretur. De Claris Orat. s. 145. During the
consulship of Sylla, A.U.C. 666, Cicero being then in the
nineteenth year of his age, and wishing to acquire a competent
knowledge of the principles of jurisprudence, attached himself to
Mucius Scævola, who did not undertake the task of instructing
pupils, but, by conversing freely with all who consulted him, gave
a fair opportunity to those who thirsted after knowledge. Ego
autem juris civilis studio, multum operæ dabam Q.
Scævolæ, qui quamquam nemini se ad docendum dabat,
tamen, consulentibus respondendo, studiosos audiendi docebat. De
Claris Orat. s. 306.
 Philo was a
leading philosopher of the academic school. To avoid the fury of
Mithridates, who waged a long war with the Romans, he fled from
Athens, and, with some of the most eminent of his fellow-citizens,
repaired to Rome. Cicero was struck with his philosophy, and became
his pupil. Cùm princeps academiæ Philo, cum
Atheniensium optimatibus, Mithridatico bello, domo profugisset,
Romamque venisset, totum ei me tradidi, admirabili quodam ad
philosophiam studio concitatus. De Claris Orat. s. 306.
Cicero adds, that he gave board and lodging, at his own house,
to Diodotus the stoic, and, under that master, employed himself in
various branches of literature, but particularly in the study of
logic, which may be considered as a mode of eloquence, contracted,
close, and nervous. Eram cum stoico Diodoto: qui cum
habitavisset apud me, mecumque vixisset, nuper est domi meæ
mortuus. A quo, cum in aliis rebus, tum studiosissime in
dialecticâ exercebar, quæ quasi contracta et adstricta
eloquentia putanda est. De Claris Orat. s. 309.
 Cicero gives an
account of his travels, which he undertook, after having employed
two years in the business of the forum, where he gained an early
reputation. At Athens, he passed six months with Antiochus, the
principal philosopher of the old academy, and, under the direction
of that able master, resumed those abstract speculations which he
had cultivated from his earliest youth. Nor did he neglect his
rhetorical exercises. In that pursuit, he was assisted by
Demetrius, the Syrian, who was allowed to be a skilful preceptor.
He passed from Greece into Asia; and, in the course of his travels
through that country, he lived in constant habits with Menippus of
Stratonica; a man eminent for his learning; who, if to be neither
frivolous, nor unintelligible, is the character of Attic eloquence,
might fairly be called a disciple of that school. He met with many
other professors of rhetoric, such as Dionysius of Magnesia,
Æschylus of Cnidos, and Zenocles of Adramytus; but not
content with their assistance, he went to Rhodes, and renewed his
friendship with MOLO, whom he had heard at Rome, and knew to be an
able pleader in real causes; a fine writer, and a judicious critic,
who could, with a just discernment of the beauties as well as the
faults of a composition, point out the road to excellence, and
improve the taste of his scholars. In his attention to the Roman
orator, the point he aimed at (Cicero will not say that he
succeeded) was, to lop away superfluous branches, and confine
within its proper channel a stream of eloquence, too apt to swell
above all bounds, and overflow its banks. After two years thus
spent in the pursuit of knowledge, and improvement in his
oratorical profession, Cicero returned to Rome almost a new man.
Is (MOLO) dedit operam (si modo id consequi potuit) ut nimis
redundantes nos, et superfluentes juvenili quadam dicendi
impunitate, et licentiâ, reprimeret, et quasi extra ripas
diffluentes cœrceret. Ita recepi me biennio post, non modo
exercitatior, sed propè mutatus. See De Claris
Oratoribus, s. 315 and 316.
 Cicero is here
said to have been a complete master of philosophy, which, according
to Quintilian, was divided into three branches, namely, physics,
ethics, and logic. It has been mentioned in this section, note, that Cicero called logic a contracted and
close mode of eloquence. That observation is fully explained by
Quintilian. Speaking of logic, the use, he says, of that
contentious art, consists in just definition, which presents to the
mind the precise idea; and in nice discrimination, which marks the
essential difference of things. It is this faculty that throws a
sudden light on every difficult question, removes all ambiguity,
clears up what was doubtful, divides, develops, and separates, and
then collects the argument to a point. But the orator must not be
too fond of this close combat. The minute attention, which logic
requires, will exclude what is of higher value; while it aims at
precision, the vigour of the mind is lost in subtlety. We often see
men, who argue with wonderful craft; but, when petty controversy
will no longer serve their purpose, we see the same men without
warmth or energy, cold, languid, and unequal to the conflict; like
those little animals, which are brisk in narrow places, and by
their agility baffle their pursuers, but in the open field are soon
overpowered. Hæc pars dialectica, sive illam dicere
malimus disputatricem, ut est utilis sæpe et finitionibus, et
comprehensionibus, et separandis quæ sunt differentia, et
resolvendâ ambiguitate, et distinguendo, dividendo,
illiciendo, implicando; ita si totum sibi vindicaverit in foro
certamen, obstabit melioribus, et sectas ad tenuitatem vires
ipsâ subtilitate consumet. Itaque reperias quosdam in
disputando mirè callidos; cum ab illâ verò
cavillatione discesserint, non magis sufficere in aliquo graviori
actu, quam parva quædam animalia, quæ in angustiis
mobilia, campo deprehenduntur. Quint. lib. xii. cap. 2.
Ethics, or moral philosophy, the same great critic holds to be
indispensably requisite. Jam quidem pars illa moralis, quæ
dicitur ethice, certè tota oratori est accommodata. Nam in
tantâ causarum varietate, nulla ferè dici potest,
cujus non parte aliquâ tractatus æqui et boni
reperiantur. Lib. xii. Unless the mind be enriched with a store
of knowledge, there may he loquacity, but nothing that deserves the
name of oratory. Eloquence, says Lord Bolingbroke, must flow like a
stream that is fed by an abundant spring, and not spout forth a
little frothy stream, on some gaudy day, and remain dry for the
rest of the year. See Spirit of Patriotism.
With regard to natural philosophy, Quintilian has a sentiment so
truly sublime, that to omit it in this place would look like
insensibility. If, says he, the universe is conducted by a
superintending Providence, it follows that good men should govern
the nations of the earth. And if the soul of man is of celestial
origin, it is evident that we should tread in the paths of virtue,
all aspiring to our native source, not slaves to passion, and the
pleasures of the world. These are important topics; they often
occur to the public orator, and demand all his eloquence. Nam si
regitur providentiâ mundus, administranda certè bonis
viris erit respublica. Si divina nostris animis origo, tendendum ad
virtutem, nec voluptatibus terreni corporis serviendum. An hoc non
frequenter tractabit orator? Quint. lib. xii. cap. 2.

Section XXXI.
 Quintilian,
as well as Seneca, has left a collection of school-declamations,
but he has given his opinion of all such performances. They are
mere imitation, and, by consequence, have not the force and spirit
which a real cause inspires. In public harangues, the subject is
founded in reality; in declamations, all is fiction. Omnis
imitatio ficta est; quo fit ut minus sanguinis ac virium
declamationes habeant, quam orationes; quod in his vera, in illis
assimulata materia est. Lib. x. cap. 2. Petronius has given a
lively description of the rhetoricians of his time. The
consequence, he says, of their turgid style, and the pompous swell
of sounding periods, has ever been the same: when their scholars
enter the forum, they look as if they were transported into a new
world. The teachers of rhetoric have been the bane of all true
eloquence. Hæc ipsa tolerabilia essent, si ad eloquentiam
ituris viam facerent: nunc et rerum tumore, et sententiarum
vanissimo strepitu, hoc tantum proficiunt, ut quum in forum
venerint, putent se in alium terrarum orbem delatos. Pace
vestrâ liceat dixisse, primi omnium eloquentiam
perdidistis. Petron. in Satyrico, cap. 1 and 2. That gay
writer, who passed his days in luxury and voluptuous pleasures (see
his character, Annals, b. xvi. s. 18), was, amidst all his
dissipation, a man of learning, and, at intervals, of deep
reflection. He knew the value of true philosophy, and, therefore,
directs the young orator to the Socratic school, and to that plan
of education which we have before us in the present Dialogue. He
bids his scholar begin with Homer, and there drink deep of the
Pierian spring: after that, he recommends the moral system; and,
when his mind is thus enlarged, he allows him to wield the arms of
Demosthenes.
——Det primos versibus
annos,
Mæoniumque bibat felici
pectore fontem:
Mox et Socratico plenus grege
mutet habenas
Liber, et ingentis quatiat
Demosthenis arma.
 Cicero has
left a book, entitled TOPICA, in which he treats at large of the
method of finding proper arguments. This, he observes, was executed
by Aristotle, whom he pronounces the great master both of invention
and judgement. Cum omnis ratio diligens disserendi duas habeat
partes; unam INVENIENDI, alteram JUDICANDI; utriusque princeps, ut
mihi quidem videtur, Aristoteles fuit. Ciceronis Topica,
s. vi. The sources from which arguments may be drawn, are called
LOCI COMMUNES, COMMON PLACES. To supply the orator with ample
materials, and to render him copious on every subject, was the
design of the Greek preceptor, and for that purpose he gave his
TOPICA. Aristoteles adolescentes, non ad philosophorum morem
tenuiter disserendi, sed ad copiam rhetorum in utramque partem, ut
ornatius et uberius dici posset, exercuit; idemque locos (sic enim
appellat) quasi argumentorum notas tradidit, unde omnis in utramque
partem traheretur oratio. Cicero, De Oratore. Aristotle
was the most eminent of Plato's scholars: he retired to a
gymnasium, or place of exercise, in the neighbourhood of
Athens, called the Lyceum, where, from a custom, which he
and his followers observed, of discussing points of philosophy, as
they walked in the porticos of the place, they obtained the
name of Peripatetics, or the walking philosophers. See Middleton's
Life of Cicero, vol. ii. p. 537, 4to edit.
 The academic
sect derived its origin from Socrates, and its name from a
celebrated gymnasium, or place of exercise, in the suburbs
of Athens, called the Academy, after Ecademus, who
possessed it in the time of the Tyndaridæ. It was
afterwards purchased, and dedicated to the public, for the
convenience of walks and exercises for the citizens of Athens. It
was gradually improved with plantations, groves and porticos for
the particular use of the professors or masters of the academic
school; where several of them are said to have spent their lives,
and to have resided so strictly, as scarce ever to have come within
the city. See Middleton's Life of Cicero, 4to edit. vol. ii.
p. 536. Plato, and his followers, continued to reside in the
porticos of the academy. They chose
——The green
retreats
Of Academus, and the thymy
vale,
Where, oft inchanted with
Socratic sounds,
Ilyssus pure devolv'd his tuneful
stream
In gentle murmurs.
AKENSIDE, PLEAS. OF
IMAG.
For dexterity in argument, the orator is referred to this
school, for the reason given by Quintilian, who says that the
custom of supporting an argument on either side of the question,
approaches nearest to the orator's practice in forensic causes.
Academiam quidam utilissimam credunt, quod mos in utramque
partem disserendi ad exercitationem forensium causarum
proximè accedat. Lib. xii. cap. 2 Quintilian assures us
that we are indebted to the academic philosophy for the ablest
orators, and it is to that school that Horace sends his poet for
instruction:
Rem tibi Socraticæ poterunt
ostendere chartæ,
Verbaque provisam rem non invita
sequentur.
ARS POET. ver. 310.

Good sense, that fountain of the
muse's art,
Let the rich page of Socrates
impart;
And if the mind with clear
conception glow,
The willing words in just
expressions flow.
FRANCIS'S HORACE.
 Epicurus
made frequent use of the rhetorical figure called exclamation; and
in his life, by Diogenes Lærtius, we find a variety of
instances. It is for that manner of giving animation to a discourse
that Epicurus is mentioned in the Dialogue. For the rest,
Quintilian tells us what to think of him. Epicurus, he says,
dismisses the orator from his school, since he advises his pupil to
pay no regard to science or to method. Epicurus imprimis nos a
se ipse dimittit, qui fugere omnem disciplinam navigatione quam
velocissima jubet. Lib. xii. cap. 2. Metrodorus was the
favourite disciple of Epicurus. Brotier says that a statue of the
master and the scholar, with their heads joined together, was found
at Rome in the year 1743.
It is worthy of notice, that except the stoics, who, without
aiming at elegance of language, argued closely and with vigour,
Quintilian proscribes the remaining sects of philosophers.
Aristippus, he says, placed his summum bonum in bodily
pleasure, and therefore could be no friend to the strict regimen of
the accomplished orator. Much less could Pyrrho be of use, since he
doubted whether there was any such thing in existence as the judges
before whom the cause must be pleaded. To him the party accused,
and the senate, were alike non-entities. Neque vero Aristippus,
summum in voluptate corpora bonum ponens, ad hunc nos laborem
adhortetur. Pyrrho quidem, quas in hoc opere partes habere potest?
cui judices esse apud quos verba faciat, et reum pro quo loquatur,
et senatum, in quo sit dicenda sententia, non liquebat.
Quintil. lib. xii. cap. 2.

Section XXXII.
 We are
told by Quintilian, that Demosthenes, the great orator of Greece,
was an assiduous hearer of Plato: Constat Demosthenem, principem
omnium Græciæ oratorum, dedisse operam Platoni.
Lib. xii. cap. 2. And Cicero expressly says, that, if he might
venture to call himself an orator, he was made so, not by the
manufacture of the schools of rhetoric, but in the walks of the
Academy. Fateor me oratorem, si modo sim, aut etiam quicumque
sim, non ex rhetorum officinis, sed ex Academiæ spatiis
extitisse. Ad Brutum Orator, s. 12.

Section XXXIII.
 The
ancient critics made a wide distinction, between a mere facility of
speech, and what they called the oratorical faculty. This is fully
explained by Asinius Pollio, who said of himself, that by pleading
at first with propriety, he succeeded so far as to be often called
upon; by pleading frequently, he began to lose the propriety with
which he set out; and the reason was, by constant practice he
acquired rashness, not a just confidence in himself; a fluent
facility, not the true faculty of an orator. Commodè
agenda factum est, ut sæpe agerem; sæpe agenda, ut
minus commodè; quia scilicet nimia facilitas magis quam
facultas, nec fiducia, sed temeritas, paratur. Quintil. lib.
xii.

Section XXXIV.
 There is
in this place a trifling mistake, either in Messala, the speaker,
or in the copyists. Crassus was born A.U.C. 614. See s. xviii. note. Papirius Carbo, the person accused, was
consul A.U.C. 634, and the prosecution was in the following year,
when Crassus expressly says, that he was then only one and twenty.
Quippe qui omnium maturrimè ad publicas causas
accesserim, annosque natus UNUM ET VIGINTI, nobilissimum hominem et
eloquentissimum in judicium vocârim. Cicero, De
Orat. lib. iii. s. 74. Pliny the consul was another instance of
early pleading. He says himself, that he began his career in the
forum at the age of nineteen, and, after long practice, he could
only see the functions of an orator as it were in a mist.
Undevicessimo ætatis anno dicere in foro cœpi, et
nunc demum, quid præstare debeat orator, adhuc tamen per
caliginem video. Lib. v. epist. 8. Quintilian relates of
Cæsar, Calvus, and Pollio, that they all three appeared at
the bar, long before they arrived at their quæstorian age,
which was seven and twenty. Calvus, Cæsar, Pollio, multum
ante quæstoriam omnes ætatem gravissima judicia
susceperunt. Quintilian, lib. xii. cap. 6.

Section XXXV.
 Lipsius, in
his note on this passage, says, that he once thought the word
scena in the text ought to be changed to schola; but
he afterwards saw his mistake. The place of fictitious declamation
and spurious eloquence, where the teachers played a ridiculous
part, was properly called a theatrical scene.
 Lucius
Licinius Crassus and Domitius Ænobarbus were censors A.U.C.
662. Crassus himself informs us, that, for two years together, a
new race of men, called Rhetoricians, or masters of eloquence, kept
open schools at Rome, till he thought fit to exercise his censorian
authority, and by an edict to banish the whole tribe from the city
of Rome; and this, he says, he did, not, as some people suggested,
to hinder the talents of youth from being cultivated, but to save
their genius from being corrupted, and the young mind from being
confirmed in shameless ignorance. Audacity was all the new masters
could teach; and this being the only thing to be acquired on that
stage of impudence, he thought it the duty of a Roman censor to
crush the mischief in the bud. Latini (sic diis placet) hoc
biennio magistri dicendi extiterunt; quos ego censor edicto meo
sustuleram; non quo (ut nescio quos dicere aiebant) acui ingenia
adolescentium nollem, sed, contra, ingenia obtundi nolui,
corroborari impudentiam. Hos vero novos magistros nihil
intelligebam posse docere, nisi ut auderent. Hoc cum unum
traderetur, et cum impudentiæ ludus esset, putavi esse
censoris, ne longius id serperet, providere. De Orat. lib. iii.
s. 93 and 94. Aulus Gellius mentions a former expulsion of the
rhetoricians, by a decree of the senate, in the consulship of
Fannius Strabo and Valerius Messala, A.U.C. 593. He gives the words
of the decree, and also of the edict, by which the teachers were
banished by Crassus, several years after. See A. Gellius, Noctes
Atticæ, lib. xv. cap. 2. See also Suetonius, De Claris
Rhet. s. 1.
 Seneca has
left a collection of declamations in the two kinds, viz. the
persuasive, and controversial. See his SUASORIÆ, and
CONTROVERSIÆ. In the first class, the questions are, Whether
Alexander should attempt the Indian ocean? Whether he should enter
Babylon, when the augurs denounced impending danger? Whether
Cicero, to appease the wrath of Marc Antony, should burn all his
works? The subjects in the second class are more complex. A
priestess was taken prisoner by a band of pirates, and sold to
slavery. The purchaser abandoned her to prostitution. Her person
being rendered venal, a soldier made his offers of gallantry. She
desired the price of her prostituted charms; but the military man
resolved to use force and insolence, and she stabbed him in the
attempt. For this she was prosecuted, and acquitted. She then
desired to be restored to her rank of priestess: that point was
decided against her. These instances may serve as a specimen of the
trifling declamations, into which such a man as Seneca was betrayed
by his own imagination. Petronius has described the literary farce
of the schools. Young men, he says, were there trained up in folly,
neither seeing nor hearing any thing that could be of use in the
business of life. They were taught to think of nothing, but pirates
loaded with fetters on the sea-shore; tyrants by their edicts
commanding sons to murder their fathers; the responses of oracles
demanding a sacrifice of three or more virgins, in order to abate
an epidemic pestilence. All these discourses, void of common sense,
are tricked out in the gaudy colours of exquisite eloquence, soft,
sweet, and seasoned to the palate. In this ridiculous boy's-play
the scholars trifle away their time; they are laughed at in the
forum, and still worse, what they learn in their youth they do not
forget at an advanced age. Ego adolescentulos existimo in
scholis stultissimos fieri, quia nihil ex iis, quæ in usu
habemus, aut audiunt aut vident; sed piratas cum catenis in littore
stantes, et tyrannos edicta scribentes, quibus imperent filiis, ut
patrum suorum capita præcidant; sed responsa in
pestilentiâ data, ut virgines tres aut plures immolentur; sed
mellitos verborum globos, et omnia dicta factaque quasi papavere et
sesamo sparsa. Nunc pueri in scholis ludunt; juvenes ridentur in
foro; et, quod utroque turpius est, quod quisque perperam discit,
in senectute confiteri non vult. Petron. in Satyrico,
cap. 3 and 4.
 Here
unfortunately begins a chasm in the original. The words are, Cum
ad veros judices ventum est, * * * * rem cogitare * * * * nihil
humile, nihil abjectum eloqui poterat. This is unintelligible.
What follows from the words magna eloquentia sicut flamma,
palpably belongs to Maternus, who is the last speaker in the
Dialogue. The whole of what Secundus said is lost. The expedient
has been, to divide the sequel between Secundus and Maternus; but
that is mere patch-work. We are told in the first section of the
Dialogue, that the several persons present spoke their minds, each
in his turn assigning different but probable causes, and at times
agreeing on the same. There can, therefore, be no doubt but
Secundus took his turn in the course of the enquiry. Of all the
editors of Tacitus, Brotier is the only one who has adverted to
this circumstance. To supply the loss, as well as it can now be
done by conjecture, that ingenious commentator has added a
Supplement, with so much taste, and such a degree of probability,
that it has been judged proper to adopt what he has added. The
thread of the discourse will be unbroken, and the reader, it is
hoped, will prefer a regular continuity to a mere vacant space. The
inverted comma in the margin of the text [transcriber's note: not
used, but numbered with decimal rather than Roman numerals] will
mark the supplemental part, as far as section 36, where the
original proceeds to the end of the Dialogue. The sections of the
Supplement will be marked, for the sake of distinction, with
figures, instead of the Roman numeral letters.

SUPPLEMENT.
Section 1.
 Petronius says, you
may as well expect that the person, who is for ever shut up in a
kitchen, should be sweet and fresh, as that young men, trained up
in such absurd and ridiculous interludes, should improve their
taste or judgement. Qui inter hæc nutriuntur, non magis
sapere possunt, quam bene olere, qui in culiná habitant.
Petronius, in Satyrico, s. 2.

Section 2.
 The means by which an
orator is nourished, formed, and raised to eminence, are here
enumerated. These are the requisites, that lead to that
distinguished eloquence, which is finely described by Petronius,
when he says, a sublime oration, but sublime within due bounds, is
neither deformed with affectation, nor turgid in any part, but,
depending on truth and simplicity, rises to unaffected grandeur.
Grandis, et, ut ita dicam, pudica oratio, non est maculosa, nec
turgida, sed naturali pulchritudine exsurgit. Petronius, in
Satyrico, s. 2.

Section 3.
 Maternus engaged for
himself and Secundus, that they would communicate their sentiments:
see s. 16. In consequence of that promise, Messala now calls upon
them both. They have already declared themselves admirers of
ancient eloquence. It now remains to be known, whether they agree
with Messala as to the cause that occasioned a rapid decline: or
whether they can produce new reasons of their own.

Section 4.
 Secundus proceeds to
give his opinion. This is managed by Brotier with great art and
judgement, since it is evident in the original text that Maternus
closed the debate. According to what is said in the introduction to
the Dialogue, Secundus agrees with Messala upon most points, but
still assigns different, but probable reasons. A revolution, he
says, happened in literature; a new taste prevailed, and the worst
models were deemed worthy of imitation. The emotions of the heart
were suppressed. Men could no longer yield to the impulse of
genius. They endeavoured to embellish their composition with
novelty; they sparkled with wit, and amused their readers with
point, antithesis, and forced conceits. They fell into the case of
the man, who, according to Martial, was ingenious, but not
eloquent:
Cum sexaginta numeret Casselius
annos;
Ingeniosus homo est: quando
disertus erit?
Lib. vii. epig. 8.
 Enough, perhaps, has
been already said in the notes, concerning the teachers of
rhetoric; but it will not be useless to cite one passage more from
Petronius, who in literature, as well as convivial pleasure, may be
allowed to be arbiter elegantiarum. The rhetoricians, he
says, came originally from Asia; they were, however, neither known
to Pindar, and the nine lyric poets, nor to Plato, or Demosthenes.
They arrived at Athens in evil hour, and imported with them that
enormous frothy loquacity, which at once, like a pestilence,
blasted all the powers of genius, and established the rules of
corrupt eloquence. Nondum umbraticus doctor ingenia deleverat,
cum Pindarus novemque lyrici Homericis versibus canere non
timuerunt. Certe neque Platona, neque Demosthenem, ad hoc genus
exercitationis accessisse video. Nuper ventosa isthæc et
enormis loquacitas Athenas ex Asia commigravit, animosque juvenum
ad magna surgentes veluti pestilenti quodam sidere afflavit;
simulque corruptæ eloquentiæ regula stetit et
obtinuit. Petron. Satyricon, s. 2.

Section 5.
 When the public taste
was vitiated, and to elevate and surprise, as Bayes says,
was the new way of writing, Seneca is, with good reason,
ranked in the class of ingenious, but affected authors. Menage
says, if all the books in the world were in the fire, there is not
one, whom he would so eagerly snatch from the flames as Plutarch.
That author never tires him; he reads him often, and always finds
new beauties. He cannot say the same of Seneca; not but there are
admirable passages in his works, but when brought to the test they
lose their apparent beauty by a close examination. Seneca serves to
be quoted in the warmth of conversation, but is not of equal value
in the closet. Whatever be the subject, he wishes to shine, and, by
consequence, his thoughts are too refined, and often false.
Menagiana, tom. ii. p. 1.

Section 6.
 This charge against
Seneca is by no means new. Quintilian was his contemporary; he saw
and heard the man, and, in less than twenty years after his death,
pronounced judgement against him. In the conclusion of the first
chapter of his tenth book, after having given an account of the
Greek and Roman authors, he says, he reserved Seneca for the last
place, because, having always endeavoured to counteract the
influence of a bad taste, he was supposed to be influenced by
motives of personal enmity. But the case was otherwise. He saw that
Seneca was the favourite of the times, and, to check the torrent
that threatened the ruin of all true eloquence, he exerted his best
efforts to diffuse a sounder judgement. He did not wish that Seneca
should be laid aside: but he could not in silence see him preferred
to the writers of the Augustan age, whom that writer endeavoured to
depreciate, conscious that, having chosen a different style, he
could not hope to please the taste of those who were charmed with
the authors of a former day. But Seneca was still in fashion; his
partisans continued to admire, though it cannot be said that they
imitated him. He fell short of the ancients, and they were still
more beneath their model. Since they were content to copy, it were
to be wished that they had been able to vie with him. He pleased by
his defects, and the herd of imitators chose the worst. They
acquired a vicious manner, and flattered themselves that they
resembled their master. But the truth is, they disgraced him.
Seneca, it must be allowed, had many great and excellent qualities;
a lively imagination, vast erudition, and extensive knowledge. He
frequently employed others to make researches for him, and was
often deceived. He embraced all subjects; in his philosophy, not
always profound, but a keen censor of the manners, and on moral
subjects truly admirable. He has brilliant passages, and beautiful
sentiments; but the expression is in a false taste, the more
dangerous, as he abounds with delightful vices. You would have
wished that he had written with his own imagination, and the
judgement of others. To sum up his character; had he known how to
rate little things, had he been above the petty ambition of always
shining, had he not been fond of himself, had he not weakened his
force by minute and dazzling sentences, he would have gained, not
the admiration of boys, but the suffrage of the judicious. At
present he may be read with safety by those who have made
acquaintance with better models. His works afford the fairest
opportunity of distinguishing the beauties of fine writing from
their opposite vices. He has much to be approved, and even admired:
but a just selection is necessary, and it is to be regretted that
he did not choose for himself. Such was the judgement of
Quintilian: the learned reader will, perhaps, be glad to have the
whole passage in the author's words, rather than be referred to
another book. Ex industriâ Senecam, in omni genere
eloquentiæ versatum, distuli, propter vulgatam falso de me
opinionem, quâ damnare eum, et invisum quoque habere sum
creditus. Quod, accidit mihi, dum corruptum, et omnibus vitiis
fractum dicendi genus revocare ad severiora judicia contendo. Tum
autem solus hic fere in manibus adolescentium fuit. Quem non
equidem omnino conabar excutere, sed potioribus præferri non
sinebam, quos ille non destiterat incessere, cum, diversi sibi
conscius generis, placere se in dicendo posse iis quibus illi
placerent, diffideret. Amabant autem eum magis, quàm
imitabantur; tantumque ab illo defluebant, quantum ille ab antiquis
descenderat. Foret enim optandum, pares, aut saltem proximos, illi
viro fieri. Sed placebat propter sola vitia, et ad ea se quisque
dirigebat effingenda, quæ poterat. Deinde cum se jactaret
eodem modo dicere, Senecam infamabat. Cujus et multæ alioqui
et magnæ virtutes fuerunt; ingenium facile et copiosum;
plurimum studii; et multarum rerum cognitio, in quâ tamen
aliquando ab iis, quibus inquirenda quædam mandabat, deceptus
est. Tractavit etiam omnem ferè studiorum materiam; In
philosophiâ parum diligens, egregius tamen vitiorum
insectator. Multa in eo claræque sententiæ; multa etiam
morum gratiâ legenda; sed in eloquendo corrupta pleraque,
atque eo perniciosissima, quod abundat dulcibus vitiis. Velles eum
suo ingenio dixisse, alieno judicio. Nam si aliqua contempsisset;
si parum concupisset, si non omnia sua amasset; si rerum pondera
minutissimis sententiis non fregisset, consensu potius eruditorum,
quàm puerorum amore comprobaretur. Verùm sic quoque
jam robustis, et severiore genere satis firmatis, legendus, vel
ideo, quod exercere potest utrimque judicium. Multa enim (ut dixi)
probanda in eo, multa etiam admiranda sunt; eligere modo curæ
sit, quod utinam ipse fecisset. Quintil. lib. x. cap. 1. From
this it is evident, that Seneca, even in the meridian of his fame
and power, was considered as the grand corrupter of eloquence. The
charge is, therefore, renewed in this Dialogue, with strict
propriety. Rollin, who had nourished his mind with ancient
literature, and was, in his time, the Quintilian of France, has
given the same opinion of Seneca, who, he says, knew how to play
the critic on the works of others, and to condemn the strained
metaphor, the forced conceit, the tinsel sentence, and all the
blemishes of a corrupt style, without desiring to weed them out of
his own productions. In a letter to his friend (epist. 114), which
has been mentioned section xxvi. note,
Seneca admits a general depravity of taste, and with great
acuteness, and, indeed, elegance, traces it to its source, to the
luxury and effeminate manners of the age; he compares the florid
orators of his time to a set of young fops, well powdered and
perfumed, just issuing from their toilette: Barbâ et
comâ nitidos, de capsulâ totos; he adds, that such
affected finery is not the true ornament of a man. Non est
ornamentum virile, concinnitas. And yet, says Rollin, he did
not know that he was sitting to himself for the picture. He aimed
for ever at something new, far fetched, ingenious, and pointed. He
preferred wit to truth and dignified simplicity. The marvellous was
with him better than the natural; and he chose to surprise and
dazzle, rather than merit the approbation of sober judgement. His
talents placed him at the head of the fashion, and with those
enchanting vices which Quintilian ascribes to him, he was, no
doubt, the person who contributed most to the corruption of taste
and eloquence. See Rollin's Belles Lettres, vol. i. sur
le Gout. Another eminent critic, L'ABBE GEDOYN, who has given
an elegant translation of Quintilian, has, in the preface to that
work, entered fully into the question concerning the decline of
eloquence. He admits that Seneca did great mischief, but he takes
the matter up much higher. He traces it to OVID, and imputes the
taste for wit and spurious ornament, which prevailed under the
emperors, to the false, but seducing charms of that celebrated
poet. Ovid was, undoubtedly, the greatest wit of his time; but his
wit knew no bounds. His fault was, exuberance. Nescivit quod
bene cessit relinquere, says Seneca, who had himself the same
defect. Whatever is Ovid's subject, the redundance of a copious
fancy still appears. Does he bewail his own misfortunes; he seems
to think, that, unless he is witty, he cannot be an object of
compassion. Does he write letters to and from disappointed lovers;
the greatest part flows from fancy, and little from the heart. He
gives us the brilliant for the pathetic. With these faults, Ovid
had such enchanting graces, that his style and manner infected
every branch of literature. The tribe of imitators had not the
genius of their master; but being determined to shine in spite of
nature, they ruined all true taste and eloquence. This is the
natural progress of imitation, and Seneca was well aware of it. He
tells us that the faults and blemishes of a corrupt style are ever
introduced by some superior genius, who has risen to eminence in
bad writing; his admirers imitate a vicious manner, and thus a
false taste goes round from one to another. Hæc vitia unus
aliquis inducit, sub quo tunc eloquentia est: cæteri
imitantur; et alter alteri tradunt. Epist. 114. Seneca,
however, did not know that he was describing himself. Tacitus says
he had a genius suited to the taste of the age. Ingenium
amœnum et temporis ejus auribus accommodatum. He adopted
the faults of Ovid, and was able to propagate them. For these
reasons, the Abbé Gedoyn is of opinion, that Ovid began the
mischief, and Seneca laid the axe to the root of the tree. It is
certain, that, during the remaining period of the empire, true
eloquence never revived.

Section 7.
 Historians have
concurred in taxing Vespasian with avarice, in some instances, mean
and sordid; but they agree, at the same time, that the use which he
made of his accumulated riches, by encouraging the arts, and
extending liberal rewards to men of genius, is a sufficient apology
for his love of money.
 Titus, it is needless
to say, was the friend of virtue and of every liberal art. Even
that monster Domitian was versed in polite learning, and by fits
and starts capable of intense application: but we read in Tacitus,
that his studies and his pretended love of poetry served as a cloak
to hide his real character. See History, b. iv. s. 86.
 Pliny the younger
describes the young men of his time rushing forward into the forum
without knowledge or decency. He was told, he says, by persons
advanced in years, that, according to ancient usage, no young man,
even of the first distinction, was allowed to appear at the bar,
unless he was introduced by one of consular dignity. But, in his
time, all fences of respect and decency were thrown down. Young men
scorned to be introduced; they forced their way, and took
possession of the forum without any kind of recommendation. At
hercule ante memoriam meam (majores natu ita solent dicere), ne
nobilissimis quidem adolescentibus locus erat, nisi aliquo
consulari producente; tantâ veneratione pulcherrimum opus
celebrabatur. Nunc refractis pudoris et reverentiæ claustris,
omnia patent omnibus. Nec inducuntur, sed irrumpunt. Plin. lib.
ii. epist. 14.

Section 8.
 This want of decorum
before the tribunals of justice would appear incredible, were it
not well attested by the younger Pliny. The audience, he says, was
suited to the orators. Mercenary wretches were hired to applaud in
the courts, where they were treated at the expence of the advocate,
as openly as if they were in a banqueting-room. Sequuntur
auditores actoribus similes, conducti et redempti mancipes.
Convenitur in mediâ basilicâ, ubi tam palam
sportulæ quam in triclinio dantur. Plin. lib, ii. epist.
14. He adds in the same epistle, LARGIUS LICINIUS first introduced
this custom, merely that he might procure an audience. Primus
hunc audiendi morem induxit Largius Licinius, hactenus tamen ut
auditores corrogaret.
 This anecdote is also
related by Pliny, in the following manner: Quintilian, his
preceptor, told him that one day, when he attended Domitius Afer in
a cause before the centumviri, a sudden and outrageous noise
was heard from the adjoining court. Afer made a pause; the
disturbance ceased, and he resumed the thread of his discourse. He
was interrupted a second and a third time. He asked, who was the
advocate that occasioned so much uproar? Being told, that Licinius
was the person, he addressed himself to the court in these words:
Centumvirs! all true eloquence is now at an end. Ex Quintiliano,
præceptore meo, audisse memini: narrabat ille, Assectabar
Domitium Afrum, cum apud centumviros diceret graviter et
lentè (hoc enim illi actionis genus erat), audiit ex proximo
immodicum insolitumque clamorem; admiratus reticuit; ubi silentium
factum est, repetit quod abruperat; iterum clamor, iterum reticuit;
et post silentium, cœpit idem tertio. Novissimè quis
diceret quæsivit. Responsum est, Licinius. Tum
intermissâ causâ, CENTUMVIRI, inquit, HOC
ARTIFICIUM PERIIT. Lib. ii. ep. 14. Domitius Afer has been
mentioned, s. xiii. note. To what is
there said of him may be added a fact related by Quintilian, who
says that Afer, when old and superannuated, still continued at the
bar, exhibiting the decay of genius, and every day diminishing that
high reputation which he once possessed. Hence men said of him, he
had rather decline than desist. Malle eum
deficere, quam desinere. Quint. lib. xii. cap. 11.
 The men who applauded
for hire, went from court to court to bellow forth their venal
approbation. Pliny says, No longer ago than yesterday, two of my
nomenclators, both about the age of seventeen, were bribed
to play the part of critics. Their pay was about three
denarii: that at present is the price of eloquence. Ex
judicio in judicium pari mercede transitur. Heri duo nomenclatores
mei (habent sane ætatem eorum, qui nuper togas sumpserunt),
ternis denariis ad laudandum trahebantur. Tanti constat, ut sis
disertus. Lib. ii. epist. 14.
 The whole account of
the trade of puffing is related in the Dialogue, on the authority
of Pliny, who tells us that those wretched sycophants had two
nick-names; one in Greek, [Greek: Sophokleis], and the other in
Latin, LAUDICÆNI; the former from sophos, the usual
exclamation of applause, as in Martial: Quid tam grande sophos
clamat tibi turba, togata; the Latin word importing
parasites who sold their praise for a supper. Inde jam
non inurbanè [Greek: Sophokleis] vocantur; iisdem nomen
Latinum impositum est, LAUDICÆNI. Et tamen crescit
indies fœditas utrâque linguâ notata. Lib.
ii. epist. 14.

Section 10.
 Pliny tells us,
that he employed much of his time in pleading causes before the
centumviri; but he grew ashamed of the business, when he
found those courts attended by a set of bold young men, and not by
lawyers of any note or consequence. But still the service of his
friends, and his time of life, induced him to continue his practice
for some while longer, lest he should seem, by quitting it
abruptly, to fly from fatigue, not from the indecorum of the place.
He contrived however to appear but seldom, in order to withdraw
himself by degrees. Nos tamen adhuc et utilitas amicorum, et
ratio ætatis, moratur ac retinet. Veremur enim ne
fortè non has indignitates reliquisse, sed laborem fugisse
videamur. Sumus tamen solito rariores, quod initium est gradatim
desinendi. Lib. ii. epist. 14.

Section 11.
 The person here
distinguished from the rest of the rhetoricians, is the celebrated
Quintilian, of whose elegant taste and superior judgement it were
superfluous to say a word. Martial has given his character in two
lines:—
Quintiliane, vagæ moderator
summe juventæ,
Gloria Romanæ, Quintiliane,
togæ.
Lib. ii. epig. 90.
It is generally supposed that he was a native of
Calaguris (now Calahorra), a city in Spain, rendered
famous by the martial spirit of Sertorius, who there stood a siege
against Pompey. Vossius, however, thinks that he was born a Roman;
and GEDOYN, the elegant translator mentioned section 6. note, accedes to that opinion, since Martial does
not claim him as his countryman. The same writer says, that it is
still uncertain when Quintilian was born, and when he died; but,
after a diligent enquiry, he thinks it probable that the great
critic was born towards the latter end of Tiberius; and, of course,
when Domitius Afer died in the reign of Nero, A.U.C. 812, A.D. 59,
that he was then two and twenty. His Institutions of an Orator were
written in the latter end of Domitian, when Quintilian, as he
himself says, was far advanced in years. The time of his death is
no where mentioned, but it probably was under Nerva or Trajan. It
must not be dissembled, that this admirable author was not exempt
from the epidemic vice of the age in which he lived. He flattered
Domitian, and that strain of adulation is the only blemish in his
work. The love of literature may be said to have been his ruling
passion; but, in his estimation, learning and genius are
subordinate to honour, truth, and virtue.

Section 12.
 Maternus, without
contradicting Messala or Secundus, gives his opinion, viz. that the
decline of eloquence, however other causes might conspire, was
chiefly occasioned by the ruin of a free constitution. To this he
adds another observation, which seems to be founded in truth, as we
find that, since the revival of letters, Spain has produced one
CERVANTES; France, one MOLIERE; England, one SHAKSPEARE, and one
MILTON.

Section 13.
 Examples of short,
abrupt, and even sublime speeches out of the mouth of Barbarians,
might, if the occasion required it, be produced in great abundance.
Mr. Locke has observed, that the humours of a people may be learned
from their usage of words. Seneca has said the same, and, in
epistle cxiv. has explained himself on the subject with acute
reasoning and beautiful illustration. The whole letter merits the
attention of the judicious critic. The remainder of this, and the
whole of the following section, serve to enforce the proposition of
the speaker, viz. that Roman eloquence died with public liberty.
The Supplement ends here. The original text is resumed in the next
section, and proceeds unbroken to the end of the Dialogue.

Section XXXVI.
 When
great and powerful eloquence is compared to a flame, that must be
supported by fresh materials, it is evident that the sentence is a
continuation, not the opening of a new argument. It has been
observed, and it will not be improper to repeat, that the two
former speakers (Messala and Secundus) having stated, according to
their way of thinking, the causes of corrupt eloquence, Maternus,
as was promised in the outset of the Dialogue, now proceeds to give
another reason, and, perhaps, the strongest of all; namely, the
alteration of the government from the old republican form to the
absolute sway of a single ruler.
 The
colonies, the provinces, and the nations that submitted to the
Roman arms, had their patrons in the capital, whom they courted
with assiduity. It was this mark of distinction that raised the
ambitious citizen to the first honours in the state. To have a
number of clients, as well at home as in the most important
colonies, was the unremitting desire, the study, and constant
labour of all who aimed at pre-eminence; insomuch that, in the time
of the old republic, the men who wished to be distinguished
patrons, impoverished, and often ruined their families, by their
profusion and magnificence. They paid court to the common people,
to the provinces, and states in alliance with Rome; and, in their
turn, they received the homage of their clients. See Annals,
b. iii. s. 55.
 We read
in Quintilian, that oral testimony, and depositions signed by the
witnesses, were both in use in his time. Written evidence, he
observes, was easily combated; because the witness who chose to
speak in the presence of a few who signed his attestation, might be
guilty of a violation of truth with greater confidence; and
besides, not being cited to speak, his being a volunteer in the
cause was a circumstance against him, since it shewed that he acted
with ill-will to the opposite party. With regard to the witness who
gives his testimony in open court, the advocate has more upon his
hands: he must press him with questions, and in a set speech
observe upon his evidence. He must also support his own witnesses,
and, therefore, must draw up two lines of battle. Maximus
patronis circa testimonia sudor est. Ea dicuntur aut per tabulas,
aut a præsentibus. Simplicior contra tabulas pugna. Nam et
minus obstitisse videtur pudor inter paucos signatores, et pro
diffidentiâ premitur absentia. Tacitâ præterea
quâdam significatione refragatur his omnibus, quod nemo per
tabulas dat testimonium, nisi suâ voluntate; quo ipso non
esse amicum ei se, contra quem dicit, fatetur. Cum
præsentibus verò ingens dimicatio est: ideoque velut
duplici contra eos, proque his, acie confligitur, actionum et
interrogationum. Quint. lib. v. cap. 7.

Section XXXVII.
 For an
account of Mucianus, see section 7, note c [transcriber's note:
reference does not match]; also the History, b. ii. s. 5.
Suetonius relates that Vespasian, having undertaken to restore
three thousand brazen plates, which had perished in the
conflagration of the capital (see the Hist. of Tacitus, b.
iii. s. 71), ordered a diligent search to be made for copies,
and thereby furnished the government with a collection of curious
and ancient records, containing the decrees of the senate, acts of
the commons, and treaties of alliance, almost from the building of
the city. Suetonius, Life of Vespasian, s. 8. This, with the
addition of speeches and letters composed by men of eminence, was,
most probably, the collection published by Mucianus. We may be sure
that it contained a fund of information, and curious materials for
history; but the whole is unfortunately lost.
 The
person intended in this place must not be confounded with Lucius
Crassus, the orator celebrated by Cicero in the Dialogue DE
ORATORE. What is here said, relates to Marcus Crassus, who was
joined in the triumvirate with Pompey and Cæsar; a man famous
for his riches, his avarice, and his misfortunes. While Cæsar
was engaged in Gaul, and Pompey in Spain, Crassus invaded Asia,
where, in a battle with the Parthians, his whole army was cut to
pieces. He himself was in danger of being taken prisoner, but he
fell by the sword of the enemy. His head was cut off, and carried
to Orodes, the Parthian king, who ordered liquid gold to be infused
into his mouth, that he, who thirsted for gold, might be glutted
with it after his death. Caput ejus recisum ad regem reportatum,
ludibrio fuit, neque indigno. Aurum enim liquidum in rictum oris
infusum est, ut cujus animus arserat auri cupiditate, ejus etiam
mortuum et exangue corpus auro uteretur. Florus, lib. iii. cap.
11. Cicero says, that with slender talents, and a small stock of
learning, he was able for some years, by his assiduity and
interest, to maintain his rank in the list of eminent orators.
Mediocriter a doctrinâ instructus, angustius etiam a
naturâ, labore et industriâ, et quod adhibebat ad
obtinendas causas curam etiam, et gratiam, in principibus patronis
aliquot annos fuit. In hujus oratione sermo Latinus erat, verba non
abjecta, res compositæ diligenter; nullus flos tamen, neque
lumen ullum: animi magna, vocis parva contentio; omnia ferè
ut similiter, atque uno modo dicerentur. Cicero, De Claris
Oratoribus, s. 233.

Lentulus succeeded more by his action than by real ability. With a
quick and animated countenance, he was not a man of penetration;
though fluent in speech, he had no command of words. His voice was
sweet and melodious; his action graceful; and with those advantages
he was able to conceal all other defects. Cneius autem Lentulus
multo majorem opinionem dicendi actione faciebat, quam quanta in eo
facultas erat; qui cum esset nec peracutus (quamquam et ex facie et
ex vultu videbatur) nec abundans verbis, etsi fallebat in eo ipso;
sed voce suavi et canorâ calebat in agendo, ut ea, quæ
deerant, non desiderarentur. Cicero, De Claris
Oratoribus, s. 234. Metellus, Lucullus, and Curio, are
mentioned by Cicero in the same work. Curio was a senator of great
spirit and popularity. He exerted himself with zeal and ardour for
the legal constitution and the liberties of his country against the
ambition of Julius Cæsar, but afterwards sold himself to that
artful politician, and favoured his designs. The calamities that
followed are by the best historians laid to his charge. Lucan says
of him,
Audax venali comitatur Curio
linguâ;
Vox quondam populi, libertatemque
tueri
Ausus, et armatos plebi miscere
potentes.
Lib. i. ver. 269.
And again,
Moméntumque fuit mutatus
Curio rerum,
Gallorum captus spoliis, et
Cæsaris auro.
PHARSALIA, lib. iv. ver.
819.

Demosthenes, when not more than seven years old, lost his father,
and was left under the care of three guardians, who thought an
orphan lawful prey, and did not scruple to embezzle his effects. In
the mean time Demosthenes pursued a plan of education, without the
aid or advice of his tutors. He became the scholar of Isocrates,
and he was the hearer of Plato. Under those masters his progress
was such, that at the age of seventeen he was able to conduct a
suit against his guardians. The young orator succeeded so well in
that prelude to his future fame, that the plunderers of the
orphan's portion were condemned to refund a large sum. It is said
that Demosthenes, afterwards, released the whole or the greatest
part.

Section XXXVIII.
 The
rule for allowing a limited space of time for the hearing of
causes, the extent of which could not be known, began, as Pliny the
younger informs us, under the emperors, and was fully established
for the reasons which he gives. The custom, he says, of allowing
two water-glasses (i.e. two hour-glasses) or only one, and
sometimes half a one, prevailed, because the advocates grew tired
before the business was explained, and the judges were ready to
decide before they understood the question. Pliny, with some
indignation, asks, Are we wiser than our ancestors? are the laws
more just at present? Our ancestors allowed many hours, many days,
and many adjournments, in every cause; and for my part, as often as
I sit in judgement, I allow as much time as the advocate requires;
for would it not be rashness to guess what space of time is
necessary in a cause which has not been opened? But some
unnecessary things may be said; and is it not better, that what is
unnecessary should be spoken, than that what is necessary should be
omitted? And who can tell what is necessary, till he has heard?
Patience in a judge ought to be considered as one of the chief
branches of his duty, as it certainly is of justice. See Plin. b.
vi. ep. 2. In England, there is no danger of arbitrary rules, to
gratify the impatience of the court, or to stifle justice. The
province of juries, since the late declaratory act in the case of
libels, is now better understood; and every judge is taught, that a
cause is tried before him, not BY HIM. It is his to expound
the law, and wait, with temper, for the verdict of those whom the
constitution has intrusted.

Pompey's third consulship was A.U.C. 702; before Christ, 52. He was
at first sole consul, and in six or seven months Metellus Scipio
became his colleague.
 The
centumviri, as mentioned s. vii. note,
were a body of men composed of three out of every tribe, for the
decision of such matters as the prætors referred to their
judgement. The nature of the several causes, that came before that
judicature, may be seen in the first book DE ORATORE.
 The
question in this cause before the centumviri was, whether Clusinius
Figulus, the son of Urbinia, fled from his post in battle, and,
being taken prisoner, remained in captivity during a length of
time, till he made his escape into Italy; or, as was contended by
Asinius Pollio, whether the defendant did not serve under two
masters, who practised physic, and, being discharged by them,
voluntarily sell himself as a slave? See Quintilian, lib. vii. cap.
2.

Section XXXIX.
 The
advocates, at that time, wore a tight cloak, or mantle, like that
which the Romans used on a journey. Cicero, in his oration for
Milo, argues that he who wore that inconvenient dress, was not
likely to have formed a design against the life of any man.
Apparet uter esset insidiator; uter nihil cogitaret mali: cum
alter veheretur in rheda, penulatus, unà sederet uxor. Quid
horum non impeditissimum? Vestitus? an vehiculum? an comes? A
travelling-cloak could give neither grace nor dignity to an orator
at the bar. The business was transacted in a kind of chat with the
judges: what room for eloquence, and that commanding action which
springs from the emotions of the soul, and inflames every breast
with kindred passions? The cold inanimate orator is described, by
Quintilian, speaking with his hand under his robe; manum intra
pallium continens.

Section XL.
 Maternus is now
drawing to a conclusion, and, therefore, calls to mind the
proposition with which he set out; viz. that the flame of oratory
is kept alive by fresh materials, and always blazes forth in times
of danger and public commotion. The unimpassioned style, which
suited the areopagus of Athens, or the courts of Rome, where
the advocate spoke by an hour-glass, does not deserve the name of
genuine eloquence. The orations of Cicero for Marcellus, Ligarius,
and king Dejotarus, were spoken before Cæsar, when he was
master of the Roman world. In those speeches, what have we to
admire, except delicacy of sentiment, and elegance of diction? How
different from the torrent, tempest, and whirlwind of
passion, that roused, inflamed, and commanded the senate, and
the people, against Catiline and Marc Antony!
 For the account of
Cicero's death by Velleius Paterculus, see s. xvii. note. Juvenal ascribes the murder of the great Roman
orator to the second Philippic against Antony.
——Ridenda poemata
malo,
Quam te conspicuæ divina
Philippica famæ,
Volveris a primâ quæ
proxima.
SAT. x. ver. 124.

I rather would be Mævius,
thrash for rhymes
Like his, the scorn and scandal
of the times,
Than the Philippic,
fatally divine,
Which is inscrib'd the second,
should be mine.
DRYDEN'S JUVENAL.
What Cicero says of Antonius, the celebrated orator, may be
applied to himself: That head, which defended the commonwealth, was
shewn from that very rostrum, where the heads of so many Roman
citizens had been saved by his eloquence. In his ipsis rostris,
in quibus ille rempublicam constantissime consul defenderat,
positum caput illud fuit, a quo erant multorum civium capita
servata. Cicero De Oratore, lib. iii. s. 10.

Section XLII.
 The urbanity
with which the Dialogue is conducted, and the perfect harmony with
which the speakers take leave of each other, cannot but leave a
pleasing impression on the mind of every reader of taste. It has
some resemblance to the conclusion of Cicero's Dialogue DE NATURA
DEORUM. In both tracts, we have a specimen of the politeness with
which the ancients managed a conversation on the most interesting
subjects, and by the graces of style brought the way of instructing
by dialogue into fashion. A modern writer, whose poetical genius
cannot be too much admired, chooses to call it a frippery way of
writing. He advises his countrymen to abandon it altogether;
and this for a notable reason: because the Rev. Dr. Hurd (now
Bishop of Worcester) has shewn the true use of it. That the
dialogues of that amiable writer have an intrinsic value, cannot be
denied: they contain a fund of reflection; they allure by the
elegance of the style, and they bring us into company with men whom
we wish to hear, to know, and to admire. While we have such
conversation-pieces, not to mention others of the same stamp, both
ancient and modern, the public taste, it may be presumed, will not
easily be tutored to reject a mode of composition, in which the
pleasing and useful are so happily blended. The present Dialogue,
it is true, cannot be proved, beyond a controversy, to be the work
of Tacitus; but it is also true, that it cannot, with equal
probability, be ascribed to any other writer. It has been retained
in almost every edition of Tacitus; and, for that reason, claims a
place in a translation which professes to give all the works of so
fine a writer.

CONCLUSION.

The Author of these volumes has now gone through the difficult
task of translating Tacitus, with the superadded labour of
supplements to give continuity to the narrative, and notes to
illustrate such passages as seemed to want explanation; but he
cannot lay down his pen, without taking the liberty of addressing a
few words to the reader. As what he has to offer relates chiefly to
himself, it shall be very short. He has dedicated many years of his
life to this undertaking; and though, during the whole time, he had
the pleasure and the honour of being acquainted with many gentlemen
of taste and learning, he had no opportunity of appealing to their
opinion, or guiding himself by their advice. Amidst the hurry of
life, and the various pursuits in which all are engaged, how could
he hope that any one would be at leisure to attend to the doubts,
the difficulties, and minute niceties, which must inevitably occur
in a writer of so peculiar a genius as Tacitus? He was unwilling to
be a troublesome visitor, and, by consequence, has been obliged,
throughout the whole of his work, to trust to his own judgement,
such as it is. He spared no pains to do all the justice in his
power to one of the greatest writers of antiquity; but whether he
has toiled with fruitless industry, or has in any degree succeeded,
must be left to the judgement of others.
He is now at the end of his labours, and ready, after the
example of Montesquieu, to cry out with the voyager in Virgil,
Italiam! Italian! But whether he is to land on a peaceful
shore; whether the men who delight in a wreck, are to rush upon him
with hostile pens, which in their hands are pitch-forks; whether
his cargo is to be condemned, and he himself to be wounded, maimed,
and lacerated; a little time will discover. Such critics will act
as their nature prompts them. Should they cry havoc, and let
slip the dogs of war, it may be said,
Quod genus hoc hominum,
quæve hunc tam barbara morem
Permittit patria? Hospitio
prohibemur arenæ;
Bella cient, primâque
vetant consistere terrâ.
This, they may say, is anticipating complaint; but, in the worst
that can happen, it is the only complaint this writer will ever
make, and the only answer they will ever receive from his pen.
It is from a very different quarter that the translator of
Tacitus waits for solid criticism. The men, as Pliny observes, who
read with malignity, are not the only judges. Neque enim soli
judicant, qui malignè legunt. The scholar will see
defects, but he will pronounce with temper: he will know the
difficulty, and, in some cases, perhaps the impossibility, of
giving in our language the sentiments of Tacitus with the precision
and energy of the original; and, upon the whole, he will
acknowledge that an attempt to make a considerable addition to
English literature, carries with it a plea of some merit. While the
French could boast of having many valuable translations of Tacitus,
and their most eminent authors were still exerting themselves, with
emulation, to improve upon their predecessors, the present writer
saw, with regret, that this country had not so much as one
translation which could be read, without disgust, by any person
acquainted with the idiom and structure of our language. To supply
the deficiency has been the ambition of the translator. He
persevered with ardour; but, his work being finished, ardour
subsides, and doubt and anxiety take their turn. Whatever the event
may be, the conscious pleasure of having employed his time in a
fair endeavour will remain with him. For the rest, he submits his
labours to the public; and, at that tribunal, neither flushed with
hope, nor depressed by fear, he is prepared, with due acquiescence,
to receive a decision, which, from his own experience on former
occasions, he has reason to persuade himself will be founded in
truth and candour.



GEOGRAPHICAL TABLE:
OR,
INDEX OF THE NAMES OF PLACES, RIVERS, &c. MENTIONED IN
THESE VOLUMES.
A.
ACHAIA, often taken for part of Peloponnesus, but in Tacitus
generally for all Greece.
ACTIUM, a promontory of Epirus, now called the Cape of
Tigolo, famous for the victory of Augustus over M. Antony.
ADDUA, a river rising in the country of the Grisons, and
in its course separating Milan from the territory of the Venetians,
till it falls into the Po, about six miles to the west of Cremona.
It is now called the Adda.
ADIABENE, a district of Assyria, so called from the river
Adiaba; Adiabeni, the people.
ADRANA, now the Eder; a river that flows near
Waldeck, in the landgravate of Hesse, and discharges
itself into the Weser.
ADRIATIC, now the gulf of Venice.
ADRUMETUM, a Phœnician colony in Africa, about seventeen
miles from Leptis Minor.
ÆDUI, a people of Ancient Gaul, near what is now called
Autun, in Lower Burgundy.
ÆGEÆ, a maritime town of Cilicia; now Aias
Kala.
ÆGEAN SEA, a part of the Mediterranean which lies between
Greece and Asia Minor; now the Archipelago.
ÆGIUM, a city of Greece, in the Peloponnesus; now the
Morea.
ÆNUS, a river rising in the country of the Grisons,
and running thence into the Danube.
ÆQUI, a people of Ancient Latium.
AFRICA generally means in Tacitus that part which was made a
proconsular province, of which Carthage was the capital; now the
territory of Tunis.
AGRIPPINENSIS COLONIA, so called from Agrippina, the daughter of
Germanicus, mother of Nero, and afterwards wife of the emperor
Claudius. This place is now called Cologne, situate on the
Rhine.
ALBA, a town of Latium, in Italy, the residence of the Alban
kings; destroyed by Tullus Hostilius.
ALBANIA, a country of Asia, bounded on the west by Iberia, on
the east by the Caspian Sea, on the south by Armenia, and on the
north by Mount Caucasus.
ALBINGANUM; now Albinga, to the west of the territory of
Genoa, at the mouth of the river Cente.
ALBIS, now the Elbe; a river that rises in the confines
of Silesia, and, after a wide circuit, falls into the German
sea below Hamburgh.
ALBIUM INTEMELIUM; now Vintimiglia, south-west of the
territory of Genoa, with a port on the Mediterranean, between
Monaco and S. Remo.
ALESIA, a town in Celtic Gaul, situate on a hill. It was
besieged by Julius Cæsar. See his Commentaries, lib. vii. s.
77.
ALEXANDRIA, a principal city of Egypt, built by Alexander the
Great, on the Mediterranean; famous for the library begun by
Ptolemy Philadelphus, and consisting at last of seven hundred
thousand volumes, till in Cæsar's expedition it was destroyed
by fire.
ALISO, a fort built by Drusus, the father of Germanicus, in the
part of Germany now called Westphalia, near the city of
Paderborn.
ALLIA, river of Italy, running into the Tiber, about forty miles
from Rome; famous for the slaughter of the Romans by the Gauls,
under Brennus.
ALLOBROGES, a people of Narbon Gaul, situate between the
Rhodanus and the Lacus Lemanus.
ALPS, a range of high mountains separating Italy from Gaul and
Germany. They are distinguished into different parts, under several
names: such as the Maritime Alps, near Genoa; the Cottian
Alps, separating Dauphiné from Piedmont; the Graian
Alps, beginning from Mount Cenis, where the Cottian
terminate, and extending to Great St. Bernard; the Pennine
Alps, extending from west to east to the Rhetian Alps,
the Alpes Noricæ, and the Pannonian Alps, as
far as the springs of the Kulpe. Their height in some places
is almost incredible. They are called Alps, from
Alpen, a Celtic term for high mountains.
ALTINUM, a town in the territory of Venice, on the Adriatic; now
in ruins, except a tower, still retaining the name of
Altino.
AMANUS, a mountain of Syria, separating it from Cilicia; now
called Montagna Neros by the inhabitants; that is, the
watery mountain, abounding in springs and rivulets.
AMATHUS, a maritime town of Cyprus, consecrated to Venus, with
an ancient temple of Adonis and Venus: it is now called
Limisso.
AMAZONIA, a country near the river Thermodon, in Pontus.
AMISIA, now the Ems; a river of Germany that falls into
the German sea, near Embden.
AMORGOS, an island in the Egean sea, now Amorgo.
AMYDIS, a town near the gulf of that name, on the coast of
Latium in Italy.
ANAGNIA, a town of ancient Latium, now Anagni, thirty-six
miles to the east of Rome.
ANCONA, a port town in Italy, situate on the gulf of Venice.
ANDECAVI, now Anjou.
ANEMURIUM, a promontory of Cilicia, with a maritime town of the
same name near it. See Pomponius Mela.
ANGRIVARIANS, a German people, situate on the west side of the
Weser, near Osnaburg and Minden.
ANSIBARII, a people of Germany.
ANTIOCH, or ANTIOCHIA, the capital of Syria, called
Epidaphne, to distinguish it from other cities of the name
of Antioch. It is now called Antakia.
ANTIPOLIS, now Antibes, on the coast of Provence, about
three leagues to the west of Nice.
ANTIUM, a city of the ancient Volsci, situate on the Tuscan Sea;
the birth-place of Nero. Two Fortunes were worshipped there, which
Suetonius calls Fortunæ Antiates, and Martial,
Sorores Antii. Horace's Ode to Fortune is well
known—
O Diva gratum quæ regis Antium.
The place is now called Capo d'Anzo.
ANTONA, now the Avon. See Camden.
AORSI, a people inhabiting near the Palus Mæotis; now the
eastern part of Tartary, between the Neiper and the
Don.
APAMEA, a city of Phrygia, near the banks of the Mæander;
now Aphiom-Kara-Hisar.
APENNINUS, now the Apennine, a ridge of mountains running
through the middle of Italy, extremely high, yet short of the
Alps. Its name is Celtic, signifying a high mountain.
APHRODISIUM, a town of Caria in Thrace, on the
Euxine.
APOLLONIDIA, a city of Lydia.
APULIA, a territory of Italy, along the gulf of Venice; now
Capitanate, Otranto, &c.
AQUILEIA, a large city of the Veneti, and formerly a Roman
colony, near the river Natiso, which runs into the gulf of
Venice.
AQUINUM, a town of the Ancient Latins; now Aquino, but
almost in ruins.
AQUITANIA, a division of Ancient Gaul, bounded by the
Garumna (now Garonne), by the Pyrenees, and the
ocean.
ARABIA, an extensive country of Asia, reaching from Egypt to
Chaldea. It is divided into three parts, Arabia
Petræa, Deserta, and Felix.
ARAR, or ARARIS, a river of Gaul; now the Saone.
ARAXES, a river of Mesopotamia, which runs from north to south,
and falls into the Euphrates.
ARBELA, a city of Assyria, famous for the battle between
Alexander and Darius.
ARCADIA, an inland district in the heart of Peloponnesus;
mountainous, and only fit for pasture; therefore celebrated by
bucolic or pastoral poets.
ARDEN, Arduenna, in Tacitus; the forest of Arden.
ARENACUM, an ancient town in the island of Batavia; now
Arnheim, in Guelderland.
ARICIA, a town of Latium in Italy, at the foot of Mons Albanus,
about a hundred and sixty stadia from Rome. The grove, called
Aricinum Nemus, was in the vicinity.
ARII, a people of Asia.
ARIMINUM, a town of Umbria, at the mouth of the river Ariminus,
on the gulf of Venice.
ARMENIA, a kingdom of Asia, having Albania and Iberia to the
north, and Mount Taurus and Mesopotamia to the south: divided into
the GREATER, which extends astward to the Caspian Sea; and the
LESSER, to the west of the GREATER, and separated from it by the
Euphrates; now called Turcomania.
ARNUS, a river of Tuscany, which visits Florence in its course,
and falls into the sea near Pisa.
ARSANIAS, a river of the GREATER ARMENIA, running between
Tigranocerta and Artaxata, and falling into the Euphrates.
ARTAXATA, the capital of Armenia, situate on the river
Araxes.
ARVERNI, a people of Ancient Gaul, inhabiting near the Loire;
their chief city Arvernum now Clermont, the capital
of Auvergne.
ASCALON, an ancient city of the Philistines, situate on the
Mediterranean; now Scalona.
ASCIBURGIUM, a citadel on the Rhine, where the Romans stationed
a camp and a garrison.
ATESTE, a town in the territory of Venice, situate to the south
of Patavium.
ATRIA, a town of the Veneti, on the river Tartarus, between the
Padus and the Athesis, now the Adige.
AUGUSTA TAURINORUM, a town of the Taurini, at the foot of the
Alps; now Turin, the capital of Piedmont.
AUGUSTODUNUM, the capital of the Ædui; now Autun,
in the duchy of Burgundy. It took its name from Augustus
Cæsar.
AURIA, an ancient town of Spain; now Orense, in
Galicia.
AUZEA, a strong castle in Mauritania.
AVENTICUM, the capital of the Helvetii; by the Germans called
Wiflisburg, by the French Avenches.

B.
BACTRIANI, a people inhabiting a part of Asia, to the south of
the river Oxus, which rains from east to west into the
Caspian Sea.
BAIÆ, a village of Campania, between the promontory of
Misenum and Puteoli (now Pozzuolo), nine miles to the west
of Naples.
BALEARES, a cluster of islands in the Mediterranean, of which
Majorca and Minorca are the chief.
BASTARNI, a people of Germany, who led a wandering life in the
vast regions between the Vistula and the Pontic sea.
BATAVIA, an island formed by two branches of the Rhine and the
German sea. See Annals, book ii. s. 6; and Manners of the Germans,
s. 29. note a.
BATAVODURUM, a town in the island of Batavia; now, as some of
the commentators say, Wyk-te-Duurstede.
BEBRYACUM, or BEDRYACUM, a village situate between Verona and
Cremona; famous for two successive defeats; that of Otho, and soon
after that of Vitellius.
BELGIC GAUL, the country between the Seine and the Marne to the
west, the Rhine to the east, and the German sea to the north.
BERYTUS, now Barut, in Phœnicia.
BETASII, the people inhabiting the country now called
Brabant.
BITHYNIA, a proconsular province of Asia Minor, bounded on the
north by the Euxine and the Propontic, adjoining to Troas,
over-against Thrace; now Becsangial.
BŒTICA, one of the provinces into which Augustus
Cæsar divided the Farther Spain.
BOII, a people of Celtic Gaul, in the country now called
Bourbonnois. There was also a nation of the same name in Germany.
See Manners of the Germans, s. 28.
BONNA, now Bonn, in the electorate of Cologne.
BONONIA, called by Tacitus Bononiensis; now
Bologna, capital of the Bolognese in Italy.
BOSPHORANI, a people bordering on the Euxine; the
Tartars.
BOSPHORUS, two straits of the sea so called; one Bosphorus
Thracius, now the straits of Constantinople; the other
Bosphorus Cimmerius, now the straits of Caffa.
BOVILLÆ, a town of Latium, near Mount Albanus; about ten
miles from Rome, on the Appian Road.
BRIGANTES, the ancient inhabitants of Yorkshire,
Lancashire, Durham, Westmoreland, and
Cumberland.
BRIXELLUM, the town where Otho dispatched himself after the
defeat at Bedriacum; now Bresello, in the territory
of Reggio.
BRIXIA, a town of Italy, on this side of the Po; now
Brescia.
BRUCTERIANS, a people of Germany, situate in Westphalia. See the
Manners of the Germans, s. 33. note a.
BRUNDUSIUM, a town of Calabria, with an excellent harbour, at
the entrance of the Adriatic, affording to the Romans a commodious
passage to Greece. The Via Appia ended at this town. Now
Brindisi, in the territory of Otranto, in the kingdom
of Naples.
BYZANTIUM, a city of Thrace, on the narrow strait that separates
Europe from Asia; now Constantinople. See Annals, xii. s.
63.

C.
CÆLALETÆ, a people of Thrace, near Mount
Hæmus.
CÆRACATES, probably the diocese of Mayence.
CÆSAREA, a maritime town in Palestine; now
Kaisarié.
CÆSIAN FOREST, now the Forest of Heserwaldt, in the
duchy of Cleves. It is supposed to be a part of the Hercynian
Forest.
CALABRIA, a peninsula of Italy, between Tarentum and Brundusium;
now the territory of Otranto, in the kingdom of Naples.
CAMELODUNUM, said by some to be Malden in Essex, but by
Camden, and others, Colchester. It was made a Roman colony
under the emperor Claudius; a place of pleasure rather than of
strength, adorned with splendid works, a theatre, and a temple of
Claudius.
CAMERIUM, a city in the territory of the Sabines; now
destroyed.
CAMPANIA, a territory of Italy, bounded on the west by the
Tuscan sea. The most fertile and delightful part of Italy; now
called Terra di Lavoro.
CANGI, the inhabitants of Cheshire, and part of Lancashire.
CANINEFATES, a people of the Lower Germany, from the same origin
as the Batavians, and inhabitants of the west part of the isle of
Batavia.
CANOPUS, a city of the Lower Egypt, situate on a branch of the
Nile called by the same name.
CAPPADOCIA, a large country in Asia Minor, between Cilicia the
Euxine sea. Being made a Roman province, the inhabitants had an
offer made them of a free and independent government; but their
answer was, Liberty might suit the Romans, but the Cappadocians
would neither receive liberty, nor endure it.
CAPREA, an island on the coast of Campania, about four miles in
length from east to west, and about one in breadth. It stands
opposite to the promontory of Surrentum, and has the bay of
Naples in view. It was the residence of Tiberius for several
years.
CAPUA, now Capoa, a city in the kingdom of Naples; the
seat of pleasure, and the ruin of Hannibal.
CARMEL, a mountain in Galilee, on the Mediterranean.
CARSULÆ, a town of Umbria, about twenty miles from
Mevania; now in ruins.
CARTHAGO, once the most famous city of Africa, and the rival of
Rome; supposed by some to have been built by queen Dido, seventy
years after the foundation of Rome; but Justin will have it before
Rome. It was the capital of what is now the kingdom of
Tunis.
CARTHAGO NOVA, a town of Hispania Tarraconensis, or the
Hither Spain; now Carthagena.
CASPIAN SEA, a vast lake between Persia, Great Tartary, Muscovy
and Georgia, said to be six hundred miles long, and near as
broad.
CASSIOPE, a town in the island of Corcyra (now Corfou),
called at present St. Maria di Cassopo.
CATTI, a people of Germany, who inhabited part of the country
now called Hesse, from the mountains of Hartz, to the
Weser and the Rhine.
CAUCI. See CHAUCI.
CELENDRIS, a place on the coast of Cilicia, near the confines of
Pamphylia.
CENCHRIÆ, a port of Corinth, situate about ten miles
towards the east; now Kenkri.
CENCHRIS, a river running through the Ortygian Grove.
CEREINA, an island in the Mediterranean, to the north of the
Syrtis Minor in Africa; now called Kerkeni.
CHALCEDON, a city of Bithynia, situate at the mouth of the
Euxine, over-against Byzantium. It was called the City of the
Blind. See Annals, xii. s. 63.
CHAUCI, a people of Germany, inhabiting what we now call East
Friesland, Bremen, and Lunenburg. See Manners of
the Germans, s. 35.
CHERUSCANS, a great and warlike people of Ancient Germany, to
the north of the Catti, between the Elbe and the
Weser.
CIBYRA, formerly a town of Phrygia, near the banks of the
Mæander, but now destroyed.
CILICIA, an extensive country in the Hither Asia, bounded by
Mount Taurus to the north, by the Mediterranean to the south, by
Syria to the east, and by Pamphylia to the west. It was one of the
provinces reserved for the management of the emperor.
CINITHIANS, a people of Africa.
CIRRHA, a town of Phocis, near Delphi, sacred to Apollo.
CIRRHUS, a town of Syria, in the district of Commagene, and not
far from Antioch.
CIRTA, formerly the capital of Numidia, and the residence of the
king. It is now called Constantina, in the kingdom of
Algiers.
CLITÆ, a people of Cilicia, near Mount Taurus.
CLUNIA, a city in the Hither Spain.
COLCHOS, a country of Asia, on the east of the Euxine, famous
for the fable of the Golden Fleece, the Argonautic Expedition, and
the Fair Enchantress, Medea.
COLOPHON, a city of Ionia, in the Hither Asia. One of the places
that claimed the birth of Homer; now destroyed.
COMMAGENE, a district of Syria, bounded on the east by the
Euphrates, on the west by Amanus, and on the north by Mount
Taurus.
COOS. See Cos.
CORCYRA, an island in the Adriatic; now Corfou.
CORINTHUS, a city of Achaia, on the south part of the isthmus
which joins Peloponnesus to the continent. From its situation
between two seas, Horace says,
Bimarisve Corinthi
mœnia.
The city was taken and burnt to the ground by Mummius the Roman
general, A.U.C. 608. It was afterwards restored to its ancient
splendour, and made a Roman colony. It retains the name of
Corinth.
CORMA, a river in Asia; mentioned by Tacitus only.
CORSICA, an island in the part of the Mediterranean called the
Sea of Liguria, in length from north to south about a hundred and
fifty miles, and about fifty where broadest. To the south it is
separated from Sardinia by a narrow channel.
COS, or COOS, one of the islands called the Cyclades, in the
Ægean sea, famous for being the birth-place of Apelles; now
Stan Co.
COSA, a promontory of Etruria; now Mont Argentaro, in
Tuscany.
CREMERA, a river of Tuscany, falling into the Tiber a little to
the north of Rome, rendered famous by the slaughter of the
Fabii.
CREMONA, a city of Italy, built A.U.C. 536, and afterwards, in
the year 822, rased to the ground by the army of Vespasian, in the
war with Vitellius. It was soon rebuilt by the citizens, with the
exhortations of Vespasian. It is now a flourishing city in the
duchy of Milan, and retains the name of Cremona.
CUMÆ, a town of Campania, near Cape Misenum, famous for
the cave of the Cumæan Sibyl.
CUSUS, a river in Hungary, that falls into the Danube.
CYCLADES, a cluster of islands in the Ægean sea, so called
from Cyclus, the orb in which they lie. Their names and
number are not ascertained. Strabo reckons sixteen.
CYME, a maritime town of Æolia in Asia.
CYPRUS, a noble island opposite to the coast of Syria, formerly
sacred to Venus, whence she was called the Cyprian goddess.
CYRENE (now called Curin), the capital of Cyrenaica, a
district of Africa, now the Desert of Barca. It stood about
eleven miles from the sea, and had an excellent harbour.
CYTHERA, an island situated on the coast of Peloponnesus
formerly sacred to Venus, and thence her name of Cytherea.
The island is now called Cerigo.
CYTHNUS, one of the islands called the Cyclades, in the
Ægean Sea.
CYZICUS, a city of Mysia, in the Hither Asia, rendered famous by
the long siege of Mithridates, which at last was raised by
Lucullus.

D.
DACIA, a country extending between the Danube and the Carpathian
mountains to the mouth of the Danube, and to the Euxine, comprising
a part of Upper Hungary, Transylvania, and Moldavia. The
inhabitants to the west, towards Germany, were called Daci;
those to the east towards the Euxine were called Getæ.
The whole country was reduced by Trajan to a Roman province.
DAHÆ, a people of Scythia, to the south of the Caspian,
with the Massagetæ on the east. Virgil calls them
indomitique Dahæ.
DALMATIA, an extensive country bordering on Macedonia and
Mæsia, and having the Adriatic to the south.
DANDARIDÆ, a people bordering on the Euxine. Brotier says
that some vestiges of the nation, and its name, still exist at a
place called Dandars.
DANUBE, the largest river in Europe. It rises in Suabia, and
after visiting Bavaria, Austria, Hungary, and taking thence a
prodigious circuit, falls at last into the Black or Euxine sea. See
Manners of the Germans, s. 1. note g.
DELOS, the central island of the Cyclades, famous in mythology
for the birth of Apollo and Diana.
DELPHI, a famous inland town of Phocis in Greece, with a temple
and oracle of Apollo, situate near the foot of Mount Parnassus.
DENTHELIATE LANDS, a portion of the Peloponnesus that lay
between Laconia and Messenia; often disputed by those states.
DERMONA, a river of Gallia Transpadana; it runs into the Ollius
(now Oglio), and through that channel into the Po.
DIVODURUM, a town in Gallia Belgica, situate on the Moselle, on
the spot where Metz now stands.
DONUSA, or DONYSA, an island in the Ægean sea, not far
from Naxos. Virgil has, Bacchatamque jugis Naxon,
viridemque Donysam.
DYRRACHIUM, a town on the coast of Illyricum. Its port answered
to that of Brundusium, affording a convenient passage to Italy.

E.
ECBATANA, the capital of Media; now Hamedan.
EDESSA, a town of Mesopotamia; now Orrhoa, or
Orfa.
ELEPHANTINE, an island in the Nile, not far from Syene; at which
last place stood the most advanced Roman garrison, Notitia
Imperii.
ELEUSIS, a district of Attica near the sea-coast, sacred to
Ceres, where the Eleusinian mysteries were performed; now in
ruins.
ELYMÆI, a people bordering on the gulf of Persia.
EMERITA, a city of Spain; now Merida in the province of
Estramadoura.
EPHESUS, an ancient and celebrated city of Ionia, in Asia Minor;
now Efeso. It was the birth-place of Heraclitus, the weeping
philosopher.
EPIDAPHNE, a town in Syria, not far from Antioch.
EPOREDIA, a town at the foot of the Alps, afterwards a Roman
colony; now Jurea, or Jura, a city of Piedmont.
ERINDE, a river of Asia, mentioned by Tacitus only.
ERITHRÆ, a maritime town of Ionia, in Asia Minor.
ETRURIA, a district of Italy, extending from the boundary of
Liguria to the Tiber; now Tuscany.
EUBŒA, an island near the coast of Attica; now
Negropont.
EUPHRATES, a river of Asia, universally allowed to take its rise
in Armenia Major. It divides into two branches, one running through
Babylon, and the other through Seleucia. It bounds Mesopotamia on
the west.
EUXINE, or PONTUS EUXINUS; now the Black Sea.

F.
FERENTINUM, a town of Latium, in Italy; now Ferentino, in
the Campania of Rome.
FERENTUM, a town of Etruria; now Ferenti.
FERONIA, a town in Etruria.
FIDENÆ, a small town in the territory of the Sabines,
about six miles to the north of Rome. The place where the ruins of
Fidenæ are seen, is now called Castello Giubileo.
FLAMMINIAN WAY, made by Flamminius A.U.C. 533, from Rome to
Ariminum, a town of Umbria, or Romana, at the mouth of the
river Ariminus, on the gulf of Venice. It is now called
Rimini.
FLEVUS, a branch of the Rhine, that emptied itself into the
lakes which have been long since absorbed by the Zuyderzee.
A castle, called Flevum Castellum, was built there by
Drusus, the father of Germanicus.
FORMIÆ, a maritime town of Italy, to the south-east of
Cajeta. The ruins of the place are still visible.
FOROJULIUM. See FORUM JULIUM.
FORUM ALLIENI, now Ferrare, on the Po.
FORUM JULIUM, a Roman colony in Gaul, founded by Julius
Cæsar, and completed by Augustus, with a harbour at the mouth
of the river Argens, capable of receiving a large fleet. The
ruins of two moles at the entrance of the harbour are still to be
seen. See Life of Agricola, s. 4. note a. The place is now called
Frejus.
FRISII, the ancient inhabitants of Friesland. See Manners
of the Germans.
FUNDANI MONTES, now Fondi, a city of Naples, on the
confines of the Pope's dominions.

G.
GABII, a town of Latium, between Rome and Preneste. A particular
manner of tucking up the gown, adopted by the Roman consuls when
they declared war or attended a sacrifice, was called Cinctus
Gabinus. The place now extinct.
GÆTULI, a people of Africa, bordering on Mauritania.
GALATIA, or GALLOGRÆCIA, a country of Asia Minor, lying
between Cappadocia, Pontus, and Pophlagonia; now
called Chiangare.
GALILÆA, the northern part of Canaan, or Palestine,
bounded on the north by Phœnicia, on the south by
Samaria, on the east by the Jordan, and on the west
by the Mediterranean.
GALLIA, the country of ancient Gaul, now France. It was
divided by the Romans into Gallia Cisalpina, viz. Gaul on
the Italian side of the Alps, with the Rubicon for its
boundary to the south. It was also called Gallia Togata,
from the use made by the inhabitants of the Roman Toga. It
was likewise called Gallia Transpadana, or Cispadana,
with respect to Rome. The second great division of Gaul was
Gallia Transalpina, or Ulterior, being, with respect
to Rome, on the other side of the Alps. It was also called
Gallia Comata, from the people wearing their hair long,
which the Romans wore short. The southern part was GALLIA
NARBONENSIS, Narbon Gaul, called likewise Braccata,
from the use of braccæ, or breeches, which were no
part of the Roman dress; now Languedoc, Dauphiny, and
Provence. For the other divisions of Gaul on this side of
the Alps, into the Gallia Belgica, Celtica, Aquitanica,
further subdivided by Augustus, see the Manners of the Germans, s.
1. note a.
GARAMANTES, a people in the interior part of Africa, extending
over a vast tract of country at present little known.
GARIZIM, a mountain of Samaria, famous for a temple built on it
by permission of Alexander the Great.
GELDUBA, not far from Novesium (now Nuys, in the
electorate of Cologne) on the west side of the Rhine.
GEMONIÆ, a place at Rome, into which were thrown the
bodies of malefactors.
GERMANIA, Ancient Germany, bounded on the east by the Vistula
(the Weissel), on the north by the Ocean, on the west by the
Rhine, and on the south by the Danube. A great part of Gaul, along
the west side of the Rhine, was also called Germany by Augustus
Cæsar, Germania Cisrhenana, and by him distinguished
into Upper and Lower Germany.
GOTHONES, a people of ancient Germany, who inhabited part of
Poland, and bordered on the Vistula.
GRAIAN ALPS, Graiæ Alpes, supposed to be so called from
the Greeks who settled there. See ALPS.
GRINNES, a town of the Batavi, on the right side of the Vahalis
(now the Waal), in the territory of Utrecht.
GUGERNI, a people originally from Germany, inhabiting part of
the duchy of Cleves and Gueldre, between the Rhine and the
Meuse.
GYARUS, one of the islands called the Cyclades, rendered
famous by being allotted for the banishment of Roman citizens.
Juvenal says, Aude aliquid brevibus Gyaris, et carcere dignum,
si vis esse aliquis.

H.
HÆMUS, MOUNT, a ridge of mountains running from Illyricum
towards the Euxine sea; now Mont Argentaro.
HÆMONADENSIANS, a people bordering on Cilicia.
HALICARNASSUS, the capital of Caria, in Asia Minor, famous for
being the birth-place of Herodotus and Dionysius, commonly called
Dionysius Halicarnassensis.
HELVETII, a people in the neighbourhood of the Allobroges,
situate on the south-west side of the Rhine, and separated from
Gaul by the Rhodanus and Lacus Lemanus.
HENIOCHIANS, a people dwelling near the Euxine Sea.
HERCULANEUM, a town of Campania, near Mount Vesuvius, swallowed
up by an earthquake. Several antiquities have been lately dug out
of the ruins.
HERCYNIAN FOREST: in the time of Julius Cæsar, the breadth
could not be traversed in less than nine days; and after travelling
lengthways for sixty days, no man reached the extremity.
Cæsar, De Bell. Gal. lib. vi. s. 29.
HERMUNDURI, a people of Germany, in part of what is now called
Upper Saxony, bounded on the north by the river Sala, on the
east by the Elbe, and on the south by the Danube.
HIERO-CÆSAREA, a city in Lydia, famous for a temple to the
Persian Diana, supposed to have been built by Cyrus.
HISPALIS, a town of Bœtica in the Farther Spain; now
Seville in Andalusia.
HISPANIA, Spain, otherwise called Iberia, from the river
Iberus. It has the sea on every side except that next to
Gaul, from which it is separated by the Pyrenees.
During the time of the republic, the whole country was divided into
two provinces, Ulterior and Citerior, the
Farther and Hither Spain. Augustus divided the
Farther Spain into two provinces; Bœtica, and
Lusitania. The Hither Spain he called Tarraconensis,
and then Spain was formed into three provinces;
Bœtica, under the management of the senate; and the
other two reserved for officers appointed by the prince.
HOSTILIA, a village on the Po: now Ostiglia, in the
neighbourhood of Cremona.
HYPÆPA, a small city in Lydia, now rased to the
ground.
HYRCANIA, a country of the Farther Asia, to the east of the
Caspian Sea, with Media on the west, and Parthia on the south;
famous for its tigers. There was a city of the same name in
Lydia.

I.
IBERIA, an inland country of Asia, bounded by Mount Caucasus on
the north, by Albania on the cast, by Colchis and part of Pontus on
the west, and by Armenia on the south. Spain was also called
Iberia, from the river Iberus; now the Ebro.
IBERUS, a noble river of the Hither Spain; now the
Ebro.
ICENI, a people of Britain; now Essex, Suffolk, and
Norfolk.
ILIUM, another name for ancient Troy. A new city, nearer to the
sea, was built after the famous siege of Troy, and made a Roman
colony. But, as was said of the old city, Etiam periere
ruinæ.
ILLYRICUM, the country between Pannonia to the north, and the
Adriatic to the south. It is now comprised by Dalmatia and
Sclavonia, under the respective dominion of the Venetians
and the Turks.
INSUBRIA, a country of Gallia Cisalpina; now the
Milanese.
INTEMELIUM. See ALBIUM INTEMELIUM.
INTERAMNA, an ancient town of the Volsci in Latium, not far from
the river Liris. It is now in ruins.
IONIAN SEA, the sea that washes the western coast of Greece,
opposite to the gulf of Venice.
ISICHI, a people bordering on the Euxine, towards the east.
ISTRIA, an island in the gulf of Venice, still retaining its
ancient name. There was also a town of the same name near the mouth
of the Ister, on the Euxine Sea.
ITURÆA, a Transjordan district of Palestine, now
Bacar.

J.
JAPHA, a strong place, both by nature and art, in the Lower
Galilee, not far from Jotapata; now Saphet.
JAZYGES, a people of Sarmatia Europæa, situate on this
side of the Palus Mæotis, near the territory of Maroboduus,
the German king.
JUGANTES, said by Camden to be the same as the Brigantes,
but Brotier thinks it probable that they were a distinct,
people.

L.
LACUS LEMANUS, now the Lake of Geneva.
LANGOBARDI, a people of Germany, between the Elbe and the
Oder, in part of what is now called Brandenburg.
LANUVIUM, a town of Latium, about sixteen miles from Rome; now
Civita Lavinia.
LAODICEA, a town of Phrygia, called, to distinguish it from
other cities of the same name, Laodicea ad Lycum. Spon, in
his account of his travels, says it is rased to the ground, except
four theatres built, with marble, finely polished, and in as good
condition as if they were modern structures; now called
Ladik.
LAODICEA AD MARE, a considerable town on the coast of Syria,
well built, with a commodious harbour.
LATIUM, the country of the Latini, so called from king Latinus;
contained at first within narrow bounds, but greatly enlarged under
the Alban kings and the Roman consuls, by the accession of the
Æqui, Volsci, Hernici, &c.
LECHÆUM, the west port of Corinth, which the people used
for their Italian trade, as they did Cenchræ for their
eastern or Asiatic.
LEPTIS, there were in Africa two ancient cities of the name,
Leptis magna, and Leptis parva. The first (now called
Lebeda) was in the territory of Tripoli; the second, a town
on the Mediterranean, not far from Carthage.
LESBOS, an island in the Egean Sea, near the coast of Asia; the
birth-place of Sappho: now called Metelin.
LEUCI, a people of Gallia Belgica, to the north of the Lingones,
between the Moselle and the Meuse.
LIBYA, the name given by the Greeks to all Africa; but, properly
speaking, it was an interior part of Africa.
LIGERIS; now the Loire.
LIGURIA, a country of Italy, divided into the maritime, Ligus
Ora; and the inland Liguria; both between the Apennine
to the south, the Maritime Alps to the west, and the Po to the
north. It contained what is now called Ferrara, and the
territories of Genoa.
LINGONES, a people of Gallia Belgica, inhabiting the country
about Langres and Dijon.
LONGOBARDI, or LANGOBORDI, a people of Germany, between the Elbe
and the Oder. See Manners of the Germans, s. 40 note a.
LUCANIA, a country of ancient Italy; now called the
Basilicate.
LUGDUNUM, a city of ancient Gaul; now Lyons.
LUGDUNUM BATAVORUM, a town of the Batavi, now Leyden in
Holland. There was another town of the name in Gallia Celtica, at
the confluence of the Arar (the Saone) and the Rhodanus (the
Rhone). The place is now called Lyons.
LUPPIA, a river of Westphalia; now the Lippe.
LUSITANIA, now the kingdom of Portugal, on the west of
Spain, formerly a part of it.
LYCIA, a country in Asia Minor, bounded by Pamphylia, Phrygia,
and the Mediterranean.
LYDIA, an inland country of Asia Minor, formerly governed by
Crœsus; now Carasia.
LYGII, an ancient people of Germany, who inhabited the country
now called Silesia, and also part of Poland.

M.
MACEDONIA, a large country, rendered famous by Philip of Macedon
and his son Alexander; now a province of the Turkish empire,
bounded by Servia and Bulgaria to the north, by Greece to the
south, by Thrace and the Archipelago to the east, and by Epirus to
the west.
MÆOTIS PALUS, a lake of Sarmatia Europæa, still
known by the same name, and reaching from Crim Tartary to the mouth
of the Tanais (the Don).
MÆSIA, a district of the ancient Illyricum, bordering on
Pannonia, containing what is now called Bulgaria, and part
of Servia.
MAGNESIA: there were anciently three cities of the name; one in
Ionia, on the Mæander, which, it is said, was given to
Themistocles by Artaxerxes, with these words, to furnish his
table with bread; it is now called Guzel-Hissard, in
Asiatic Turkey: the second was at the foot of Mount Sipylus, in
Lydia; but has been destroyed by earthquakes: the third Magnesia
was a maritime town of Thessaly, on the Egean Sea.
MAGONTIACUM, a town of Gallia Belgica; now Mentz, situate
at the confluence of the Rhine and the Maine.
MARCODURUM, a village of Gallia Belgica; now Duren on the
Roer.
MARCOMANIANS, a people of Germany, between the Rhine, the
Danube, and the Neckar. They removed to the country of the Boii,
and having expelled the inhabitants, occupied the country now
called Bohemia. See Manners of the Germans, s. 42.
MARDI, a people of the Farther Asia, near the Caspian Sea.
MARITIME ALPS. See ALPS.
MARSACI, a people in the north of Batavia, inhabiting the
sea-coast.
MARSI, a people of Italy, who dwelt round the Lacus Fucinus.
Another people called Marsi, in Germany, to the south of the
Frisii, in the country now called Paderborne and
Munster.
MASSILLIA, a town of Gallia Narbonensis, formerly celebrated for
polished manners and learning; now Marseilles, a port town
of Provence.
MATTIACI, a branch of the Catti in Germany. Their capital town
was
MATTIUM, supposed now to be Marpourg in Hesse.
MAURITANIA, a large region of Africa, extending from east to
west along the Mediterranean, divided by the emperor Claudius into
Cæsariensis, the eastern part, and Tingitana,
the western. It had Numidia to the east, and Getulia to the south;
and was also bounded by the Atlantic ocean, the straits of
Gibraltar, and the Mediterranean to the north. The natives were
called Mauri, and thence the name of Mauritania; now
Barbary.
MEDIA, a country of the Farther Asia, bounded on the west by
Armenia, on the east by Parthia, on the north by the Caspian Sea,
on the south by Persia. Ecbatana was the capital.
MEDIOLANUM, now Milan in Italy.
MEDIOMATRICI, a people of Gallia Belgica; now the diocese of
Metz.
MELITENE, a city of Cappadocia.
MEMPHIS, a city of Egypt, famous for its pyramids.
MENAPII, a people of Belgia; now Brabant and
Flanders.
MESOPOTAMIA, a large country in the middle of Asia; so called,
because it lies, [Greek: mesae potamon], between two rivers, the
Euphrates on the west, and the Tigris on the east.
MESSENA, or MESSANA, an ancient and celebrated city of Sicily,
on the strait between that island and Italy. It still retains the
name of Messina.
MEVANIA, a town of Umbria, near the Clitumnus, a river that runs
from east to west into the Tiber.
MILETUS, an ancient city of Ionia, in Asia Minor; now totally
destroyed.
MILVIUS PONS, a bridge over the Tiber, at the distance of two
miles from Rome, on the Via Flamminia; now called
Ponte-Molle.
MINTURNÆ, a town on the confines of Campania, near the
river Liris.
MISENUM, a promontory of Campania, with a good harbour, near the
Sinus Puteolanus, or the bay of Naples, on the north side.
It was the station for the Roman fleets. Now Capo di
Miseno.
MITYLENE, the capital city of the isle of Lesbos, and now gives
name to the whole island.
MONA, an island separated from the coast of the Ordovices by a
narrow strait, the ancient seat of the Druids. Now the isle of
Anglesey.
MONÆCI PORTUS, now Monaco, a port town in the
territory of Genoa.
MORINI, a people of Belgia, inhabiting the diocese of
Tournay, and the country about St. Omer and
Boulogne.
MOSA, a large river of Belgic Gaul; it receives a branch of the
Rhine, called Vahalis, and falls into the German Ocean below
the Briel. It is now the Mæse, or Meuse.
MOSELLA, a river, which, running through Lorrain, falls into the
Rhine at Coblentz, now called the Moselle.
MOSTENI, the common name of the people and their town on the
river Hermus, in Lydia.
MUSULANI, an independent savage people in Africa, on the
confines of Carthage, Numidia, and Mauritania.
MUTINA, now Modena, a city of Lombardy, in Italy.
MYRINA, a town of Æolis, or Æolia, in
the Hither Asia; now Sanderlik.

N.
NABALIA, the name of the channel made by Drusus from the Rhine
to the river Sala; now the Ysell. See Annals, ii. s. 8.
NABATHÆI, a people between the Euphrates and the Red Sea;
comprehending Arabia Petræa, and bounded by Palestine on the
north.
NAR, a river which rises in Umbria, and, falling into the lake
Velinus, rushes thence with a violent and loud cascade, and
empties itself into the Tiber.
NARBON GAUL, the southern part of Gaul, bounded by the Pyrenees
to the west, the Mediterranean to the south, and the Alps and the
Rhine to the east.
NARNIA, a town of Umbria, on the river Nar; now
Narni, in the territory of the Pope.
NAUPORTUM, a town on a cognominal river in Pannonia.
NAVA, a river of Gallia Belgica, which runs north-east into the
west side of the Rhine; now the Nahe.
NAVARIA, now Novara, a city of Milan.
NEMETES, a people originally of Germany, removed to the diocese
of Spire, on the Rhine.
NICEPHORUS, a river of Asia that washes the walls of
Tigranocerta, and runs into the Tigris;
D'Anville says, now called Khabour.
NICOPOLIS: there were several towns of this name, viz. in Egypt,
Armenia, Bithynia, on the Euxine, &c. A town of the same name
was built by Augustus, on the coast of Epirus, as a monument of his
victory at Actium.
NINOS, the capital of Assyria; called also
Nineve.
NISIBIS, a city of Mesopotamia, at this day called
Nesibin.
NOLA, a city of Campania, on the north-east of Vesuvius. At this
place Augustus breathed his last: it retains its old name to this
day.
NORICUM, a Roman province, bounded by the Danube on the north,
by the Alpes Noricæ on the south, by Pannonia on the
east, and Vindelicia on the west; now containing a great part of
Austria, Tyrol, Bavaria, &c.
NOVESIUM, a town of the Ubii in Gallia Belgica; now Nuys,
on the west side of the Rhine, in the electorate of
Cologne.
NUCERIA, a city of Campania; now Nocera.
NUMIDIA, a celebrated kingdom of Africa, bordering on
Mauritania, and bounded to the north by the Mediterranean; now
Algiers, Tunis, Tripoli, &c. the eastern part of the
kingdom of Algiers. Syphax was king of one part, and
Masinissa of the other.

O.
OCRICULUM, a town of Umbria, near the confluence of the Nar and
the Tiber; now Otricoli, in the duchy of
Spoletto.
ODRYSÆ, a people situated in the western part of Thrace,
how a province of European Turkey.
OEENSES, a people of Africa, who occupied the country between
the two Syrtes on the Mediterranean. Their city was called
Oea, now Tripoli.
OPITERGIUM, now Oderzo, in the territory of Venice.
ORDOVICES, a people who inhabited what we now call
Flintshire, Denbighshire, Carnarvon, and
Merionethshire, in North Wales.
OSTIA, formerly a town of note, at the mouth of the Tiber (on
the south side), whence its name; at this day it lies in ruins.

P.
PADUS, anciently called Eridanus by the Greeks, famous
for the fable of Phæton; it receives several rivers from the
Alps and Apennine, and, running from west to east, discharges
itself into the Adriatic. It is now called the Po.
PAGIDA, a river in Numidia; its modern name is not ascertained.
D'Anville thinks it is now called Fissato, in the territory
of Tripoli.
PALUS MÆOTIS; see MÆOTIS.
PAMPHYLIA, a country of the Hither Asia, bounded by Pisidia to
the north, and by the Mediterranean to the south.
PANDA, a river of Asia, in the territory of the Siraci;
not well known.
PANDATARIA, an island of the Tuscan Sea, in the Sinus Puteolanus
(now il Golfo di Napoli), the place of banishment for
illustrious exiles, viz. Julia the daughter of Augustus, Agrippina
the wife of Germanicus, Octavia the daughter of Claudius, and many
others. It is now called L'lsle Sainte-Marie, or Santa
Maria.
PANNONIA, an extensive country of Europe, bounded by Mæsia
on the east, by Noricum on the west, Dalmatia on the south, and by
the Danube to the north; containing part of Austria and
Hungary.
PANNONIAN ALPS. See ALPS.
PAPHOS: there were two towns of the name, both on the west side
of the island of Cyprus, and dedicated to Venus, who was hence the
Paphian and the Cyprian goddess.
PARTHIA, a country of the Farther Asia, with Media on the west,
Asia on the east, and Hyrcania on the north.
PATAVIUM, now Padua, in the territory of Venice.
PELIGNI, a people of Samaium, near Naples.
PELOPONNESUS, the large peninsula to the south of Greece, so
called after Pelops, viz. Pelopis Nesus. It is joined
to the rest of Greece by the isthmus of Corinth, which lies between
the Egean and Ionian seas. It is now called the Morea.
PENNINÆ ALPES. See ALPS.
PERGAMOS, an ancient and famous city of Mysia, situate on
the Caicus, which runs through it. It was the residence of Attalus
and his successors. This place was famous for a royal library,
formed, with emulation, to vie with that of Alexandria in Egypt.
The kings of the latter, stung with paltry jealousy, prohibited the
exportation of paper. Hence the invention of parchment, called
Pergamana charta. Plutarch assures us, that the library at
Pergamos contained two hundred thousand volumes. The whole
collection was given by Marc Antony as a present to Cleopatra, and
thus the two libraries were consolidated into one. In about six or
seven centuries afterwards, the volumes of science, by order of the
calif Omar, served for a fire to warm the baths of Alexandria; and
thus perished all the physic of the soul. The town subsists
at this day, and retains the name of Pergamos. See Spon's
Travels, vol. i.
PERINTHUS, a town of Thrace, situate on the Propontis, now
called Heraclea.
PERUSIA, formerly a principal city of Etruria, on the north side
of the Tiber, with the famous Lacus Trasimenus to the east.
It was besieged by Augustus, and reduced by famine. Lucan has,
Perusina fames. It is now called Perugia, in the
territory of the Pope.
PHARSALIA, a town in Thessaly, rendered famous by the last
battle between Pompey and Julius Cæsar.
PHILADELPHIA: there were several ancient towns of this name.
That which Tacitus mentions was in Lydia, built by Attalus
Philadelphus; it is now called by the Turks, Alah
Scheyr.
PHILIPPI, a city of Macedonia, on the confines of Thrace; built
by Philip of Macedon, and famous for the battle fought on its
plains between Augustus and the republican party. It is now in
ruins.
PHILIPPOPOLIS, a city of Thrace, near the river Hebrus.
It derived its name from Philip of Macedon, who enlarged it, and
augmented the number of inhabitants.
PICENTIA, the capital of the Picentini, on the Tuscan
Sea. not far from Naples.
PICENUM, a territory of Italy, to the east of Umbria, and in
some parts extending from the Apennine to the Adriatic. It is now
supposed to be the March of Ancona.
PIRÆEUS, a celebrated port near Athens. It is much
frequented at this day; its name, Porto Lione.
PISÆ, a town of Etruria, which gave name to the bay of
Pisa, Sinus Pisanus.
PLACENTIA, a town in Italy, now called Placenza, in the
duchy of Parma.
PLANASIA, a small island near the coast of Etruria, in the
Tuscan Sea; now Pianosa.
POMPEII, a town of Campania, near Herculaneum. It was destroyed
by an earthquake in the reign of Nero.
POMPEIOPOLIS: there were anciently two cities of the name; one
in Cilicia, another in Paphlagonia.
PONTIA, an island in the Tuscan sea; a place of relegation or
banishment.
PONTUS, an extensive country of Asia Minor, lying between
Bithynia and Paphlagonia, and extending along the Pontus
Euxinus, the Euxine or the Pontic Sea, from which it took its
name. It had that sea to the east, the mouth of the Ister to the
north, and Mount Hæmus to the south. The wars between
Mithridates, king of Pontus, and the Romans, are well known.
PRÆNESTE, a town of Latium to the south-east of Rome,
standing very high, and said to be a strong place. The town that
succeeded it, stands low in a valley, and is called
Palestrina.
PROPONTIS, near the Hellespont and the Euxine; now the Sea of
Marmora.
PUTEOLI, a town of Campania, so called from its number of wells;
now Pozzuolo, nine miles to the west of Naples.
PYRAMUS, a river of Cilicia, rising in Mount Taurus, and running
from east to west into the Sea of Cilicia.
PYRGI, a town of Etruria, on the Tuscan Sea; now St.
Marinella, about thirty-three miles distant from Rome.

Q.
QUADI, a people of Germany, situate to the south-east of
Bohemia, on the banks of the Danube. See Manners, of the Germans,
s. 42. note b.
R.
RAVENNA, an ancient city of Italy, near the coast of the
Adriatic. A port was constructed at the mouth of the river Bedesis,
and by Augustus made a station for the fleet that guarded the
Adriatic. It is still called Ravenna.
REATE, a town of the Sabines in Latium, situate near the lake
Velinus.
REGIUM. See RHEGIUM.
REMI, a people of Gaul, who inhabited the northern part of
Champagne; now the city of Rheims.
RHACOTIS, the ancient name of Alexandria in Egypt.
RHÆTIA, a country bounded by the Rhine to the west, the
Alps to the east, by Italy to the south, and Vindelicia to
the north. Horace says Videre Rhæti bella sub Alpibus
Drusum gerentem, et Vindelici. Now the country of the
Grisons.
RHEGIUM, an ancient city at the extremity of the Apennine, on
the narrow strait between Italy and Sicily. It is now called
Reggio, in the farther Calabria.
RHINE, the river that rises in the Rhætian Alps, and
divides Gaul from Germany. See Manners of the Germans, s. 1. note
f; and s. 29. note a.
RHODANUS, a famous river of Gaul, rising on Mount Adula, not far
from the head of the Rhine. After a considerable circuit it enters
the Lake of Geneva, and in its course visits the city of
Lyons, and from that place traverses a large tract of country, and
falls into the Mediterranean. It is now called the
Rhone.
RHODUS, a celebrated island in the Mediterranean, near the coast
of Asia Minor, over-against Caria. The place of retreat for
the discontented Romans. Tiberius made that use of it.
RHOXOLANI, a people on the north of the Palus
Mæotis, situate along the Tanais, now the Don.
RICODULUM, a town of the Treviri on the Moselle.

S.
SABRINA, now the Severn; a river that rises in
Montgomeryshire, and running by Shrewsbury,
Worcester, and Glocester, empties itself into the
Bristol Channel, separating Wales from England.
SALA. It seems that two rivers of this name were intended by
Tacitus, One, now called the Issel, which had a communication with
the Rhine, by means of the canal made by Drusus, the father of
Germanicus. The other SALA was a river in the country now called
Thuringia, described by Tacitus as yielding salt, which the
inhabitants considered as the peculiar favour of heaven. The salt,
however, was found in the salt springs near the river, which runs
northward into the Albis, or Elbe.
SALAMIS, an island near the coast of Attica, opposite to
Eleusis. There was also a town of the name of Salamis, on
the eastern coast of Cyprus, built by Teucer, when driven by his
father from his native island. Horace says, Ambiguam tellure
novâ Salamina futuram.
SAMARIA, the capital of the country of that name in Palestine;
the residence of the kings of Israel, and afterwards of Herod.
Samaritans, the name of the people. Some magnificent ruins of the
place are still remaining.
SAMBULOS, a mountain in the territory of the Parthians, with the
river Corma near it. The mountain and the river are
mentioned by Tacitus only.
SAMNIS, or SAMNITES, a people of ancient Italy, extending on
both sides of the Apennine, famous in the Roman wars.
SAMOS, an island of Asia Minor, opposite to Ephesus; the
birth-place of Pythagoras, who was thence called the Samian
Sage.
SAMOTHRACIA, an island of Thrace, in the Egean Sea, opposite to
the mouth of the Hebrus. There were mysteries of initiation
celebrated in this island, held in as high repute as those of
Eleusis; with a sacred and inviolable asylum.
SARDES, the capital of Lydia, at the foot of Mount Tmolus, from
which the Pactolus ran down through the heart of the city. The
inhabitants were called Sardicni.
SARDINIA, an island on the Sea of Liguria, lying to the south of
Corsica. It is said that an herb grew there, which, when eaten,
produced a painful grin, called Sardonius risus. The island
now belongs to the Duke of Saxony, with the title of king.
SARMATIA, called also Scythia, a northern country of vast
extent, and divided into Europæa and Asiatica;
the former beginning at the Vistula (its western boundary), and
comprising Russia, part of Poland, Prussia, and Lithuania; and the
latter bounded on the west by Sarmatia Europæa and the Tanais
(the Don), extending south as far as Mount Caucasus and the
Caspian Sea, containing Tartary, Circassia, &c.
SAXA RUBRA, a place on the Flamminian road in Etruria, nine
miles from Rome.
SCEPTEUCI, a people of Asiatic Sarmatia, between the Euxine and
the Caspian Sea.
SCYTHIA, a large country, now properly Crim Tartary; in ancient
geography divided in Scythia Asiatica, on either side of Mount
Imaus; and Scythia Europæa, about the Euxine Sea and the
Mæotic Lake. See also SARMATIA.
SEGESTUM, a town of Sicily, near Mount Eryx, famous for a
temple sacred to the Erycinian Venus.
SELEUCIA, a city of Mesopotamia, situate at the confluence of
the Euphrates and the Tigris; now called
Bagdad. We find in ancient geography several cities of this
name.
SEMNONES, a people of Germany, called by Tacitus the most
illustrious branch of the Suevi. They inhabited between the Albis
and Viadrus.
SENENSIS COLONIA, now Sienna, in Tuscany.
SENONES, inhabitants of Celtic Gaul, situate on the
Sequana (now the Seine); a people famous for their invasion
of Italy, and taking and burning Rome A.U.C. 364.
SEQUANI, a people of Belgic Gaul, inhabiting the country now
called Franche Comté or the Upper Burgundy,
and deriving their name from the Sequana (now the
Seine), which, rising near Dijon in Burgundy, runs
through Paris, and, traversing Normandy, falls into the British
Channel near Havre de Grace.
SERIPHOS, a small island in the Ægean Sea, one of the
Cyclades: now Serfo, or Serfanto.
SICAMBRI, an ancient people of Lower Germany, between the
Mæse and the Rhine, where Guelderland is. They were
transplanted by Augustus to the west side of the Rhine. Horace says
to that emperor, Te cæde gaudentes Sicambri compositis
venerantur armis.
SILURES, a people of Britain, situate on the Severn and
the Bristol Channel; now South Wales, comprising
Glamorgan, Radnorshire, Hereford, and
Monmouth. See Camden.
SIMBRUINI COLLES, the Simbruine Hills, so called from the
Simbruina Stagna, or lakes formed by the river Anio,
which gave the name of Sublaqueum to the neighbouring town.
SINOPE, one of the most famous cities in the territory of
Pontus. It was taken by Lucullus in the Mithridatic war, and
afterwards received Roman colonies. It was the birth-place of
Diogenes the cynic, who was banished from his country. The place is
still called Sinope, a port town of Asiatic Turkey, on the
Euxine.
SINUESSA, a town of Latium, on the confines of Campania, beyond
the river Liris (now called Garigliano). The place was much
frequented for the salubrity of its waters.
SIPYLUS, a mountain of Lydia, near which Livy says the Romans
obtained a complete victory over Antiochas.
SIRACI, a people of Asia, between the Euxine and the
Caspian Seas.
SMYRNA, a city of Ionia in the Hither Asia, which laid a claim
to the birth of Homer. The name of Smyrna still remains in a port
town of Asiatic Turkey.
SOPHENE, a country between the Greater and the Lesser Armenia;
now called Zoph.
SOZA, a city of the Dandaridæ.
SPELUNCA, a small town near Fondi, on the coast of
Naples.
STÆCHADES, five islands, now called the Hieres, on
the coast of Provence.
STRATONICE, a town of Caria in the Hither Asia, so called after
Stratonice, the wife of Antiochus.
SUEVI, a great and warlike people of ancient Germany, who
occupied a prodigious tract of country. See Manners of the Germans,
s. 38. and note a.
SUNICI, a people removed from Germany to Gallia Belgica.
According to Cluverius, they inhabited the duchy of
Limburg.
SWINDEN, a liver that flows on the confines of the
Dahæ. It is mentioned by Tacitus only. Brotier
supposes it to be what is now called Herirud, or La
Riviere d'Herat.
SYENE, a town in the Higher Egypt, towards the borders of
Ethiopia, situate on the Nile. It lies under the tropic of Cancer,
as is evident, says Pliny the elder, from there being no shadow
projected at noon at the summer solstice. It was, for a long time,
the boundary of the Roman empire. A garrison was stationed there:
Juvenal was sent to command there by Domitian, who, by conferring
that unlocked for honour, meant, with covered malice, to punish the
poet for his reflection on Paris the comedian, a native of Egypt,
and a favourite at court.
SYRACUSE, one of the noblest cities in Sicily. The Romans took
it during the second Punic war, on which occasion the great
Archimedes lost his life. It is now destroyed, and no remains of
the place are left. Etiam periere ruinæ.
SYRIA, a country of the Hither Asia, between the Mediterranean
and the Euphrates, so extensive that Palestine, or the Holy Land,
was deemed a part of Syria.
SYRTES, the deserts of Barbary: also two dangerous sandy
gulfs in the Mediterranean, on the coast of Barbary; one called
Syrtis Magna, now the Gulf of Sidra; the other
Syrtis Parva, now the Gulf of Cassos.

T.
TANAIS, the Don, a very large river in Scythia, dividing
Asia from Europe. It rises in Muscovy, and flowing through Crim
Tartary, runs into the Palus Mæotis, near the city
now called Azoff, in the hands of the Turks.
TARENTUM, now Tarento, in the province of Otranto. The
Lacedemonians founded a colony there, and thence it was called by
Horace, Lacedæmonium Tarentum.
TARICHÆA, a town of Galilee. It was besieged and taken by
Vespasian, who sent six thousand of the prisoners to assist in
cutting a passage through the isthmus of Corinth.
TARRACINA, a city of the Volsci in Latium, near the mouth of the
Ufens, in the Campania of Rome. Now Terracina, on the
Tuscan Sea.
TARRACO, the capital of a division of Spain, called by the
Romans Tarraconensis; now Taragon, a port town in Catalonia,
on the Mediterranean, to the west of Barcelona. See
HISPANIA.
TARTARUS, a river running between the Po and the Athesis, (the
Adige) from west to east, into the Adriatic; now
Tartaro.
TAUNUS, a mountain of Germany, on the other side of the Rhine;
now Mount Heyrick, over-against Mentz.
TAURANNITII, a people who occupied a district of Armenia
Major, not far from Tigranocerta.
TAURI, a people inhabiting the Taurica Chersonesus, on
the Euxine. The country is now called Crim
Tartary.
TAURINI, a people dwelling at the foot of the Alps. Their
capital was called, after Augustus Cæsar, who planted a
colony, there, Augusta Taurinorum. The modern name is
Turin, the capital of Piedmont.
TAURUS, the greatest mountain in Asia, extending from the Indian
to the Ægean Sea; said to be fifty miles over, and fifteen
hundred long. Its extremity to the north is called
Imaus.
TELEBOÆ, a people of Æolia or Acarnania in Greece,
who removed to Italy, and settled in the isle of Capreæ.
TEMNOS, an inland town of Æolia, in the Hither Asia.
TENCTERI, a people of Germany. See the Manners of the Germans,
s. 32.
TENOS, one of the Cyclades.
TERMES, a city in the Hither Spain; now a village called
Tiermes, in Castille.
TERRACINA, a city of the Volsci in Latium, near the mouth
of the Ufens, on the Tuscan Sea; now called
Terracina, in the territory of Rome.
TEUTOBURGIUM, a forest in Germany, rendered famous by the
slaughter of Varus and his legions. It began in the country of the
Marsi, and extended to Paderborn, Osnaburg, and Munster, between
the Ems and the Luppia.
THALA, a town in Numidia, destroyed in the war of Julius
Cæsar against Juba.
THEBÆ, a very ancient town in the Higher Egypt, on the
east side of the Nile, famous for its hundred gates. Another city
of the same name in Bœotia, in Greece, said to have been
built by Cadmus. It had the honour of producing two illustrious
chiefs, Epaminondas and Pelopidas, and Pindar the celebrated poet.
Alexander rased it to the ground; but spared the house and family
of Pindar.
THERMES otherwise THERMA, a town in Macedonia, afterwards called
Thessalonica, famous for two epistles of St. Paul to the
Thessalonians. The city stood at the head of a large bay, called
Thermæus Sinus; now Golfo di Salonichi.
THESSALY, a country of Greece, formerly a great part of
Macedonia.
THRACIA, an extensive region, bounded to the north by Mount
Hæmus, to the south by the Ægean Sea, and by the Euxine
and Propontis to the east. In the time of Tiberius it was an
independent kingdom, but afterwards made a Roman province.
THUBASCUM, a town of Mauritania in Africa.
THURII, a people of ancient Italy, inhabiting a part of Lucania,
between the rivers Crathis (now Crate), and Sybaris (now
Sibari).
TIBER, a town of ancient Latium, situate on the Anio, about
twenty miles from Rome. Here Horace had his villa, and it was the
frequent retreat of Augustus. Now Tivoli.
TICINUM, a town of Insubria, situate on the river
Ticinus, near its confluence with the Po; now Pavia, in
Milan.
TICINUS, a river of Italy falling into the Po, near the city of
Ticinum, or Pavia; now Tesino.
TIGRANOCERTA, a town of Armenia Major, built by Tigranes in the
time of the Mithridatic war. The river Nicephorus washes one
side of the town. Brotier says, it is now called Sert or
Sered.
TIGRIS, a great river bounding the country called Mesopotamia to
the east, while the Euphrates incloses it to the west. Pliny gives
an account of the Tigris, in its rise and progress, till it sinks
under ground near Mount Taurus, and breaks forth again with a rapid
current, falling at last into the Persian Gulf. It divides into two
channels at Seleucia.
TMOLUS, a mountain of Lydia, commended for its vines, its
saffron, its fragrant shrubs, and the fountain-head of the
Pactolus. It appears from Tacitus, that there was a town of the
same name, that stood near the mountain.
TOLBIACUM, a town of Gallia Belgica; now Zulpich, or
Zulch, a small town in the duchy of Juliers.
TRALLES, formerly a rich and populous city of Lydia, not far
from the river Meander. The ruins are still visible.
TRAPEZUS, now Trapezond or Trebizond, a city with
a port in the Lesser Asia, on the Euxine.
TREVIRI, the people of Treves; an ancient city of the
Lower Germany, on the Moselle. It was made a Roman colony by
Augustus, and became the most famous city of Belgic Gaul. It is now
the capital of an electorate of the same name.
TRIBOCI, a people of Belgica, originally Germans. They inhabited
Alsace, and the diocese of Strasbourg.
TRIMETUS, an island in the Adriatic; one of those which the
ancients called Insulæ Diomedeæ; it still
retains the name of Tremiti. It lies near the coast of the
Capitanate, a province of the kingdom of Naples, on the Gulf
of Venice.
TRINOBANTES, a people of Britain, who inhabited Middlesex
and Essex.
TUBANTES, an ancient people of Germany, about
Westphalia.
TUNGRI, a people of Belgia. Their city, according to
Cæsar, Atuaca; now Tongeren, in the bishopric
of Liege.
TURONII, a people of ancient Gaul, inhabiting the east side of
the Ligeris (now the Loire). Hence the modern name of
Tours.
TUSCULUM, a town of Latium, to the north of Alba, about
twelve miles from Rome. It gave the name of Tusculanum to
Cicero's villa, where that great orator wrote his Tusculan
Questions.
TYRUS, an ancient city of Phœnicia, situate on an island
so near the continent, that Alexander the Great formed it into a
peninsula, by the mole or causey which he threw up during the
siege. See Curtius, lib. iv. s. 7.

U.
UBIAN ALTAR, an altar erected by the Ubii, on their removal to
the western side of the Rhine, in honour of Augustus; but whether
this was at a different place, or the town of the Ubii, is not
known.
UBII, a people originally of Germany, but transplanted by
Augustus to the west side of the Rhine, under the conduct of
Agrippa. Their capital was then for a long time called
Oppidum Ubiorum, and, at last, changed by the empress
Agrippina to Colonia Agrippinensis; now Cologne, the
capital of the electorate of that name.
UMBRIA, a division of Italy, to the south-east of Etruria,
between the Adriatic and the Nar.
UNSINGIS, a river of Germany, running into the sea, near
Groningen; now the Hunsing.
URBINUM, now Urbino, a city for ever famous for having
given birth to Raphael, the celebrated painter.
USIPII, or USIPETES, a people of Germany, who, after their
expulsion by the Catti, settled near Paderborn. See Manners
of the Germans, s. 32. and note a.
USPE, a town in the territory of the Siraci; now
destroyed.

V.
VADA, a town on the left-hand side of the Nile, in the island of
Batavia.
VAHALIS, a branch of the Rhine; now the Waal. See Manners of the
Germans, s. 29. and note a.
VANGIONES, originally inhabitants of Germany, but afterwards
settled in Gaul; now the diocese of Worms.
VASCONES, a people who inhabited near the Pyrenees, occupying
lands both in Spain and Gaul.
VELABRUM, a place at Rome, between Mount Aventine and Mount
Palatine, generally under water, from the overflowing of the Tiber.
Propertius describes it elegantly, lib. iv. eleg. x.
Qua Velabra suo stagnabant
flumine, quáque
Nauta per urbanas velificabat
aquas.
VELINUS, a lake in the country of the Sabines.
VENETI, a people of Gallia Celtica, who inhabited what is now
called Vannes, in the south of Britanny, and also a
considerable tract on the other side of the Alps, extending from
the Po along the Adriatic, to the mouth of the Ister.
VERCELLÆ, now Vercelli in Piedmont.
VERONA, now Verona, in the territory of Venice, on the
Adige.
VESONTIUM, the capital of the Sequani; now
Besançon, the chief city of Burgundy.
VETERA, i.e. Vetera Castra. The Old Camp, which was a fortified
station for the legions; now Santen, in the duchy of Cleves,
not far from the Rhine.
VIA SALARIA, a road leading from the salt-works at Ostia to the
country of the Sabines.
VIADRUS, now the Oder, running through Silesia,
Brandenburg, Pomerania, and discharging itself into
the Baltic.
VICETIA, now Vicenza, a town in the territory of
Venice.
VIENNÆ, a city of Narbonese Gaul; now Vienne, in
Dauphiné.
VINDELICI, a people inhabiting the country of Vindelicia,
near the Danube, with the Ræhti to the south; now part of
Bavaria and Suabia.
VINDONISSA, now Windisch, in the canton of Bern, in
Swisserland.
VISURGIS, a river of Germany, made famous by the slaughter of
Varus and his legions; now the Weser, running north between
Westphalia and Lower Saxony, into the German Sea.
VOCETIUS MONS, a mountain of the Helvetii, thought to be the
roughest part of Mount Jura, to which the Helvetii fled when
defeated by Cæcina. See Hist. i. s. 67.
VOLSCI, a powerful people of ancient Latium, extending from
Antium, their capital, to the Upper Liris, and the
confines of Campania.
VULSINII, or VOLSINII, a city of Etruria, the native place of
Sejanus; now Bolseno, or Bolsenna.

Z.
ZEUGMA, a town on the Euphrates, famous for a bridge over
the river. See Pliny, lib, v. s. 24.
