
Diatessaron












THE TEXT OF THE DIATESSARON 
SECTION I. 
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and God is the 3 
Word. This was in the beginning with God. Everything was by his hand, and 4 
without him not even one existing thing was made. In him was life, and the life 
5 is the light of men. And the light shineth in the darkness, and the darkness 
apprehended it not. 
6 There was in the days of Herod the king a priest whose name was Zacharias, 
of the family of Abijah; and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her 
name 7 was Elizabeth. And they were both righteous before God, walking in all 
his com- 8 mands, and in the uprightness of God without reproach. And they had 
no son, for 9 Elizabeth was barren, and they had both advanced in age. And while 
he discharged Arabic. the duties of priest in the order of his service before 
God, according to the custom of the priesthood it was his turn to burn incense; 
so he entered the temple of the Lord. And the whole gathering of the people were 
praying without at the time of the incense. And there appeared unto Zacharias 
the angel of the Lord, standing at the right of the altar of incense; and 
Zacharias was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him. But the angel 
said unto him, Be not agitated, Zacharias, for thy prayer is heard, and thy wife 
Elizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shall call his name John; and thou 
shalt have joy and gladness, and many shall rejoice at his birth. And he shall 
be great before the Lord, and shall not drink wine nor strong drink, and he 
shall be filled with the Holy Spirit while he is in his mother's womb. And he 
shall turn back many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. And he 
shall go before him in the spirit, and in the power of Elijah the prophet, to 
turn back the heart of the fathers to the sons, and those that obey not to the 
knowledge of the righteous; and to prepare for the Lord a perfect people. And 
Zacharias said unto the angel, How shall I know this, since I am an old man and 
my wife is advanced in years? And the angel answered and said unto him, I am 
Gabriel, that standeth before God; and I was sent to speak unto thee, and give 
thee tidings of this. Henceforth thou shall be speechless, and shalt not be able 
to speak until the day in which this shall come to pass, because thou didst not 
trust this my word, which shall be accomplished in its time. And the people were 
stand- Arabic, ing awaiting Zacharias, and they were perplexed at his delaying 
in the temple. And when Zacharias went out, he was not able to speak unto them: 
so they knew that he had seen in the temple a vision; and he made signs unto 
them, and continued dumb. And when the days of his service were completed, he 
departed to his dwelling. 
25 And after those days Elizabeth his wife conceived; and she hid herself 
five months, and said, This hath the Lord done unto me in the days when he 
looked upon me, to remove my reproach from among men. 
27 And in the sixth month Gabriel the angel was sent from God to Galilee to a 
city called Nazareth, to a virgin given in marriage to a man named Joseph, of 
the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary. And the angel entered unto 
her and said unto her, Peace be unto thee, thou who art filled with grace. Our 
Lord is with thee, thou blessed amongst women. And she, when she beheld, was 
agitated at his word, and pondered what this salutation could be. And the angel 
said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favour with God. Thou shall 
now con- ceive, and bear a son, and call his name Jesus. This shall be great, 
and shall be called the Son of the Most High; and the Lord God will give him the 
throne of David his father: and he shall rule over the house of Jacob for ever; 
and to his kingdom there shall be no end. Mary said unto the angel, How shall 
this be to me when no man hath known me? The angel answered and said unto her, 
The Arabic. Holy Spirit will come, and the power of the Most High shall rest 
upon thee, and therefore shall he that is born of thee be pure, and shall be 
called the Son of God. And lo, Elizabeth thy kinswoman, she also hath conceived 
a son in her old age; and this is the sixth month with her, her that is called 
barren. For nothing is difficult for God. Mary said, Lo, I am the handmaid of 
the Lord; let it be unto me according unto thy word. And the angel departed from 
her. 
40 And then Mary arose in those days and went in haste into the hill country, 
to a city of Judah; and entered into the house of Zacharias, and asked for the 
health of Elizabeth. And when Elizabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the babe 
leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit; and cried 
with a loud voice and said unto Mary, Blessed art thou amongst women, and 
blessed is the fruit that is in thy womb. Whence have I this privilege, that the 
mother of my Lord should come unto me? When the sound of thy salutation reached 
my ears, with great joy rejoiced the babe in my womb. And blessed is she who 
believed that what was spoken to her from the Lord would be fulfilled.And Mary 
said, My soul doth magnify the Lord, And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my 
Saviour, Who hath looked upon the low estate of his handmaiden: 
Lo, henceforth, all generations shall pronounce blessing on me. 
  For he hath done great things for me, who is mighty, And holy is his 
  name. And his mercy embraceth them who fear him, Throughout the ages 
  and the times. He wrought the victory with his arm, And scattered them 
  that prided themselves in their opinions. He overthrew them that acted 
  haughtily from their thrones, And raised the lowly. He satisfied with 
  good things the hungry, And left the rich without anything. He helped 
  Israel his servant, And remembered his mercy (According as he spake 
  with our fathers) Unto Abraham and unto his seed for ever. 
And Mary abode with Elizabeth about three months, and returned unto her 
house. 
And Elizabeth's time of delivery was come; and she brought forth a son. And 
her neighbours and kinsfolk heard that God had multiplied his mercy towards her; 
and they rejoiced with her. And when it was the eighth day, they came to 
circumcise the child, and called him Zacharias, calling him by the name of his 
father. And his mother answered and said unto them, Not so; but he shall be 
called John. And they said unto her, There is no man of thy kindred that is 
called by this name. 63, And they made signs to his father, saying, How dost 
thou wish to name him? And he asked for a tablet, and wrote and said, His name 
is John. And every one wondered. And immediately his mouth was opened, and his 
tongue, and he spake and praised God. And fear fell on all their neighbours: and 
this was spoken of in all the mountains of Judah. And all who heard pondered in 
their hearts and said, What shall this child be? And the hand of the Lord was 
with him. 
68 And Zacharias his father was filled with the Holy Spirit, and prophesied 
and said, Blessed is the Lord, the God of Israel, Who hath cared for his people, 
and wrought for it salvation; And hath raised for us the horn of salvation 
Arabic, In the house of David his servant (As he spake by the mouth of his holy 
prophets from eternity), That he might save us from our enemies, And from the 
hand of all them that hate us. 
73 And he hath performed his mercy towards our fathers, And remembered his 
holy covenants, And the oath which he sware unto Abraham our father, That he 
would give us deliverance from the hand of our enemies, And without fear we 
shall serve before him All our days with equity and righteousness. 
77 And as for thee, O child, prophet of the Most High shalt thou be called. 
Thou shalt go forth before the face of the Lord to prepare his way, To give 
the knowledge of salvation unto his people, For the forgiveness of their sins, 
Through the mercy of the compassion of our God, With which he careth for us, to 
appear from on high To give light to them that sit in darkness and under the 
shadow of death, And to set straight our feet in the way of peace. 
81 And the child grew and became strong in the spirit, and abode in the 
desert until the time of his appearing unto the children of Israel. 
SECTION II. 
2 1 Arabic, Now the birth of Jesus the Messiah was on this wise: In the time 
when his mother was given in marriage to Joseph, before they came together, 2 
she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. And Joseph her husband was a just 
man and did not wish to expose her, and he purposed to put her away secretly. 3 
But when he thought of this, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, 
and said unto him, Joseph, son of David, fear not to take Mary thy wife, for 
that 4 which is begotten in her is of the Holy Spirit. She shall bear a son, and 
thou shalt 5 call his name Jesus, and he shall save s his people from their 
sins.And all this was that the saying from the Lord by the prophet might be 
fulfilled: 
6 Behold, the virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, And they shall call his 
name Immanuel, 7 which is, being interpreted, With us is our God. And when 
Joseph arose from his 8 sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, 
and took his wife; and knew her not until she brought forth her firstborn son. 
9 And in those days there went forth a decree from Augustus Caesar that all 
the people of his dominion should be enrolled. This first enrolment was while 
Quirinius was governor of Syria. And every man went to be enrolled in his city. 
And Joseph went up also from Nazareth, a city of Galilee, to Judaea, to the city 
of David which is called Bethlehem (for he was of the house of David and of his 
tribe), with Arabic. Mary his betrothed, she being with child, to be enrolled 
there. And while she was there the days for her being delivered were 
accomplished. And she brought forth her firstborn son; and she wrapped him in 
swaddling cloths and laid him in a manger, because there was no place for them 
where they were staying. 
16 And there were in that region shepherds abiding, keeping their flock in 
the watch of the night. And behold, the angel of God came unto them, and the 
glory of the Lord shone upon them; and they were greatly terrified. And the 
angel said unto them, Be not terrified; for I bring you tidings of great joy 
which shall be to the whole world; there is born to you this day a Saviour, 
which is the Lord the Mes- siah, in the city of David. And this is a sign for 
you: ye shall find a babe wrapped in swaddling cloths and laid in a manger. And 
there appeared with the angels suddenly many heavenly forces praising God and 
saying, Praise be to God in the highest, And on the earth peace, and good hope 
to men. 
23 And when the angels departed from them to heaven, the shepherds spake to 
one another and said, We will go to Bethlehem and see this word which hath been, 
as the Lord made known unto us. And they came with haste, and found Mary and 
Joseph, and the babe laid in a manger. And when they saw, they reported the word 
which was spoken to them about the child. And all that heard wondered at the 
description which the shepherds described to them. But Mary kept these sayings 
and discriminated them in her heart. And those shepherds returned, magnifying 
and praising God for all that they had seen and heard, according as it was 
described unto them. 
29 Arabic. And when eight days were fulfilled that the child should be 
circumcised, his name was called Jesus, being that by which he was called by the 
angel before his conception in the womb. 
30 And when the days of their purification according to the law of Moses were 
completed, they took him up to Jerusalem to present him before the Lord (as it 
is written in the law of the Lord, Every male opening the womb shall be called 
the holy thing of the Lord), and to give a sacrificial victim as it is said in 
the law of 33 the Lord, A pair of doves or two young pigeons. And there was in 
Jerusalem a man whose name was Simeon; and this man was upright and pious, and 
expecting the consolation of Israel; and the Holy Spirit was upon him. And it 
had been said unto him by the Holy Spirit, that he should not see death till he 
had seen with his eyes the Messiah of the Lord. And this man came by the Spirit 
to the temple; and at the time when his parents brought in the child Jesus, that 
they might present for him a sacrifice, as it is written in the law, he bare him 
in his arms and praised God and said, Now loosest thou the bonds of thy servant, 
O Lord, in peace, According to thy saying; For mine eye hath witnessed thy 
mercy, Which thou hast made ready because of the whole world; A light for the 
unveiling of the nations, And a glory to thy people Israel. 
41 And Joseph and his mother were marvelling at the things which were being 
said concerning him. And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, 
Behold, he is set for the overthrow and rising of many in Israel; and for a sign 
of contention; and a spear shall pierce through thine own soul; that the 
thoughts of the hearts of many may be revealed. And Anna the prophetess, the 
daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher, was also advanced in years (and she 
dwelt with her husband seven years from her virginity, and she remained a widow 
about eighty-four years); and she left not the temple, and served night and day 
with 46 fasting and prayer. And she also rose in that hour and thanked the Lord, 
and she spake of him with every one who was expecting the deliverance of 
Jerusalem. And when they had accomplished everything according to what is in the 
law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee, to Nazareth their city. 
SECTION III. 
3 2 And after that, the Magi came from the east to Jerusalem, and said, Where 
is the King of the Jews which was born? We have seen his star in the east, and 
have 3 come to worship him. And Herod the king heard, and he was troubled, and 
all 4 Jerusalem with him. And he gathered all the chief priests and the scribes 
of the 5 people, and asked them in what place the Messiah should be born. They 
said, In Bethlehem of Judaea: thus it is written in the prophet, 6 Thou also, 
Bethlehem of Judah, Art not contemptible among the kings of Judah: From thee 
shall go forth a king, And he shall be a shepherd to my people Israel. 
7 Then Herod called the Magi secretly, and inquired of them the time at which 
8 the star appeared to them. And he sent them to Bethlehem, and said unto them, 
Go and search about the child diligently; and when ye have found him, come and 9 
make known to me, that I also may go and worship him. And they, when they 
Arabic, heard the king, departed; and lo, the star which they had seen in the 
east went before them, until it came and stood above the place where the child 
10, was. And when they beheld the star, they rejoiced with very great joy. And 
they entered the house and beheld the child with Mary his mother, and fell down 
worshipping him, and opened their saddle-bags and offered to him offerings, gold 
and myrrh and frankincense. And they saw in a dream a that they should not 
return to Herod, and they travelled by another way in going to their country. 
13 And when they had departed, the angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to 
Joseph, and said unto him, Rise, take the child and his mother, and flee into 
Egypt, and be thou there until I speak to thee; for Herod is determined to seek 
the child to slay him. And Joseph arose and took the child and his mother in the 
night, and fled into Egypt, and remained in it until the time of the death of 
Herod: that that might be fulfilled which was said by the Lord in the prophet, 
which said, From Egypt did I call my son. And Herod then, when he saw that he 
was mocked of the Magi, was very angry, and sent and killed all the male 
children which were in Bethlehem and all its borders, from two years old and 
under, according to the time which he had inquired from the Magi.Then was 
fulfilled the saying in Jeremiah the prophet, which said, A voice was heard in 
Ramah, Weeping and much lamentation; Rachel weeping for her children, And not 
willing to be consoled for their loss. 
19 But when Herod the king died, the angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to 
Joseph in Egypt, and said unto him, Rise and take the child and his mother, and 
Arabic. go into the land of Israel; for they have died who sought the child's 
life. And Joseph rose and took the child and his mother, and came to the land of 
lsrael. But when he heard that Archelaus had become king over Judaea instead of 
Herod his father, he feared to go thither; and he saw in a dream that he should 
go into the land of Galilee, and that he should abide in a city called Nazareth: 
that the saying in the prophet might be fulfilled, that he should be called a 
Nazarene. 
24 And the child grew, and became strong in spirit, becoming filled with 
wisdom; and the grace of God was upon him. 
25 And his kinsfolk used to go every year to Jerusalem at the feast of the 
pass- over. And when he was twelve years old, they went up according to their 
custom, to the feast. And when the days were accomplished, they returned; and 
the child Jesus remained in Jerusalem, and Joseph and his mother knew not: and 
they supposed that he was with the children of their company. And when they had 
gone one day's journey, they sought him beside their people and those who knew 
them, and they found him not; so they returned to Jerusalem and sought him 
again. And after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst 
of the teach- ers, hearing them and asking them questions; and all who heard him 
wondered at his wisdom and his words. And when they saw him they wondered, and 
his mother said unto him, My son, why hast thou dealt with us thus? behold, I 
and thy father have been seeking for thee with much anxiety. And he said unto 
them, Why were ye seeking me? know ye not that I must be in the house of my 
Father? And they understood not the word which he spake unto them. And he went 
down with them, and came to Nazareth; and he was obedient to them: and his 
mother used to keep all these sayings in her heart. 
36 Arabic. And Jesus grew in his stature and wisdom, and in grace with God 
and men. 
37 And in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, when Pontius 
Pilate was governor in Judaea, and one of the four rulers, Herod, in Galilee; 
and Philip his brother, one of the four rulers, in Ituraea and in the district 
of Trachonitis; and Lysanias, one of the four rulers, in Abilene; in the 
chief-priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the command of God went forth to John 
the son of Zacharias in the desert. And he came into all the region which is 
about Jordan, proclaiming the baptism of repentance unto the forgiveness of 
sins. And he was preaching in the wilderness of Judaea, and saying, Repent ye; 
the kingdom of heaven is come near. This is he that was spoken of in Isaiah the 
prophet, The voice which crieth in the desert, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, 
And make straight in the plain, paths for our God. 
44 All the valleys shall become filled, And all the mountains and hills shall 
become low; And the rough shall become plain, And the difficult place, easy; And 
all flesh shall see the salvation of God. 
46 This man came to bear witness, that he might bear witness to the light, 
that every man might believe through his mediation. He was not the light, bat 
that he might bear witness to the light, which was the light of truth, that 
giveth light to every man coming into the world. He was in the world, and the 
world was made 50 by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and 
his own received him not. And those who received him, to them gave he the power 
that they might be sons of God,--those which believe in his name: which were 
born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of a man, but 
of God. And the Word became flesh, and took up his abode among us; and we saw 
his glory as the glory of the only Son from the Father, which is full of grace 
and equity. John bare wit- Arabic, ness of him, and cried, and said, This is he 
that I said cometh after me and was before me, because he was before me. And of 
his fulness received we all grace for grace. For the law was given through the 
mediation of Moses, but truth and grace were through Jesus Christ. 
SECTION IV. 
4 1 No man hath seen God at any time; the only Son, God, which is in the 
bosom of his Father, he hath told of him. 
2 And this is the witness of John when the Jews sent to him from Jerusalem 
priests 3 and Levites to ask him, Who art thou? And he acknowledged, and denied 
not; 4 and he confessed that he was not the Messiah. And they asked him again, 
What then? Art thou Elijah? And he said, I am not he. Art thou a prophet? He 5 
said, No. They said unto him, Then who art thou? that we may answer them that 6 
sent us. What sayest thou of thyself? And he said, I am the voice that crieth in 
7 the desert, Repair ye the way of the Lord, as said Isaiah the prophet. And 
they 8 that were sent were from the Pharisees. And they asked him and said unto 
him, Why baptizest thou now, when thou art not the Messiah, nor Elijah, nor a 
prophet? 9 John answered and said unto them, I baptize with water: among you is 
standing one whom ye know not: this is he who I said cometh after me and was 
before me, the latchets of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose. And that was 
in Bethany beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing. 
12 Now John's raiment was camel's hair, and he was girded with skins, and his 
food Arabic, was of locusts and honey of the wilderness. Then went out unto him 
the people of Jerusalem, and all Judaea, and all the region which is about the 
Jordan; and they were baptized of him in the river Jordan, confessing their 
sins. But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to be baptized, 
he said unto them, Ye children of vipers, who hath led you to flee from the 
wrath to come? 16, Do now the fruits which are worthy of repentance; and think 
and say not within yourselves, We have a father, even Abraham; for I say unto 
you, that God is able to raise up of these stones children unto Abraham. Behold, 
the axe hath been laid at the roots of the trees, and so every tree that beareth 
not good fruit shall be taken and cast into the fire. And the multitudes were 
asking him and saying, What shall we do? He answered and said unto them, He that 
hath two tunics shall give to him that hath not; and he that hath food shall do 
likewise. And the publicans also came to be baptized, and they said unto him, 
Teacher, what shall we do? He said unto them, Seek not more than what ye are 
commanded to seek. And the servants of the guard asked him and said, And we 
also, what shall we do? He said unto them, Do not violence to any man, nor wrong 
him; and let your allowances satisfy you. 
24 And when the people were conjecturing about John, and all of them thinking 
in their hearts whether he were haply the Messiah, John answered and said unto 
them, I baptize you with water; there cometh one after me who is stronger than 
I, the latchets of whose shoes I am not worthy to loosen; he will baptize you 
with the Holy Spirit and fire: who taketh the fan in his hand to cleanse his 
threshing-floors, Arabic, and the wheat he gathereth into his garners, while the 
straw he shall burn in fire which can not be put out. 
27 And other things he taught and preached among the people. 
28 Then came Jesus from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptized of him. 
And Jesus was about thirty years old, and it was supposed that he was the son of 
Joseph. And John saw Jesus coming unto him, and said, This is the Lamb of God, 
that taketh on itself the burden of the sins of the world! This is he concerning 
whom I said, There cometh after me a man who was before me, because he was 
before me. And I knew him not; but that he should be made manifest to Israel, 
for this cause came I to baptize with water. And John was hindering him and 
saying, I have need of being baptized by thee, and comest thou to me? Jesus 
answered him and said, Suffer this now: thus it is our duty to fulfil all 
righteous- 35 ness. Then he suffered him. And when all the people were baptized, 
Jesus also was baptized. And immediately he went up out of the water, and heaven 
opened Arabic, to him, and the Holy Spirit descended upon him in the similitude 
of the body of a dove; and lo, a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved 
Son, in whom I am well pleased. And John bare witness and said, I beheld the 
Spirit descend from heaven like a dove; and it abode upon him. But I knew him 
not; but he that sent me to baptize with water, he said unto me, Upon whomsoever 
thou shalt behold the Spirit descending and lighting upon him, the same is he 
that baptizeth with the Holy Spirit. And I have seen and borne witness that this 
is the Son of God. 
42, And Jesus returned from the Jordan, filled with the Holy Spirit. And 
immediately the Spirit took him out into the wilderness, to be tried of the 
devil; and he was with the beasts. And he fasted forty days and forty nights. 
And he ate noth- ing in those days, and at the end of them he hungered. And the 
tempter came and said unto him, If thou art the Son of God, speak, and these 
stones shah become bread. He answered and said, It is written, Not by bread 
alone shall man live, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. 
Then the devil brought him to the holy city, and set him on the pinnacle of the 
temple, and said unto him, If thou art the Son of God, cast thyself down: for it 
is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee: And they shall take 
thee on their arms, So that thy foot shall not stumble against a stone. 
49 Jesus said unto him, And it is written also, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord 
thy God. And the devil took him up to a high mountain, and shewed him all the 
king- Arabic, doms of the earth, and their glory, in the least time; and the 
devil said unto him, To thee will I give all this dominion, and its glory, which 
is delivered to me that I may give it to whomsoever I will. If then thou wilt 
worship before me, all of it shall be thine. 
SECTION V. 
51 Jesus answered and said unto him, Get thee hence, Satan: for it is 
written, Thou 2 shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him alone shalt thou serve. 
And when the 3 devil had completed all his temptations, he departed from him for 
a season. And behold, the angels drew near and ministered unto him. 
4,5 And next day John was standing, and two of his disciples; and he saw 
Jesus as 6 he was walking, and said, Behold, the Lamb of God! And his two 
disciples heard 7 him saying this, and they followed Jesus. And Jesus turned and 
saw them coming after him, and said unto them, What seek ye? They said unto him, 
Our master, 8 where art thou staying? And he said unto them, Come and see. And 
they came and saw his place, and abode with him that day: and it was about the 
tenth hour. 9 One of the two which heard from John, and followed Jesus, was 
Andrew the brother of Simon. And he saw first Simon his brother, and said unto 
him, We have found the Messiah. And he brought him unto Jesus. And Jesus looked 
upon him and said, Thou art Simon, son of Jonah: thou shalt be called Cephas. 
12 And on the next day Jesus desired to go forth to Galilee, and he found 
Philip, Arabic, and said unto him, Follow me. Now Philip was of Bethsaida, of 
the city of Andrew and Simon. And Philip found Nathanael, and said unto him, He 
of whom Moses did write in the law and in the prophets, we have found that he is 
Jesus the son of Joseph of Nazareth. Nathanael said unto him, Is it possible 
that there can be any good thing from Nazareth? Philip said unto him, Come and 
see. And Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and said of him, This is indeed a 
son of Israel in whom is no guile. And Nathanael said unto him, Whence knowest 
thou me? Jesus said unto him, Before Philip called thee, while thou wast under 
the 18 fig tree, I saw thee. Nathanael answered and said unto him, My Master, 
thou art the Son of God; thou art the King of Israel. Jesus said unto him, 
Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the fig tree, hast thou believed? 
thou shalt see what is greater than this. And he said unto him, Verily, verily, 
I say unto you, Henceforth ye shall see the heavens opened, and the angels of 
God ascending and descending upon the Son of man. 
21 And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee. 
22 And on the third day there was a feast in Cana, a city of Galilee; and the 
mother of Jesus was there: and Jesus also and his disciples were invited to the 
feast. And they lacked wine: and his mother said unto Jesus, They have no wine. 
And Jesus said unto her, What have I to do with thee, woman? hath not mine hour 
come? And his mother said unto the servants, What he saith unto you, do. And 
there were there six vessels of stone, placed for the Jews' purification, such 
as Arabic, would contain two or three jars. And Jesus said unto them, Fill the 
vessels with water. And they filled them to the top. He said unto them, Draw out 
now, and present to the ruler of the feast. And they did so. And when the ruler 
of the company tasted that water which had become wine, and knew not whence it 
was (but the servants knew, because they filled up the water), the ruler of the 
company called the bridegroom, and said unto him, Every man presenteth first the 
good wine, and on intoxication he bringeth what is poor; but thou hast kept the 
good wine until now. And this is the first sign which Jesus did in Cans of 
Galilee, and manifested his glory; and his disciples believed on him. And his 
fame spread in all the coun- try which was around them. And he taught in their 
synagogues, and was glorified by every man. And he came to Nazareth, where he 
had been brought up, and entered, according to his custom, into the synagogue on 
the sabbath day, and stood up to read. And he was given the book of Isaiah the 
prophet.And Jesus opened the book and found the place where it was written, The 
Spirit of the Lord is upon me, And for this anointed he me, to preach good 
tidings to the poor; And he hath sent me to heal the broken-hearted, And to 
proclaim forgiveness to the evil-doers, and sight to the blind, And to bring the 
broken into forgiveness, 
38 And to proclaim an acceptable year of the Lord. 
39 And he rolled up the book and gave it to the servant, and went and sat 
down: and the eyes of all that were in the synagogue were observing him. And he 
began to say unto them, To-day hath this scripture been fulfilled which ye have 
heard with your ears. And they all bare him witness, and wondered at the words 
of grace which were proceeding from his mouth. 
42 Arabic, And from that time began Jesus to proclaim the gospel of the 
kingdom of God, and to say, Repent ye, and believe in the gospel. The time is 
fulfilled, and the kingdom of heaven hath come near. 
44 And while he was walking on the shore of the sea of Galilee, he saw two 
brethren, Simon who was called Cephas, and Andrew his brother, casting their 
nets into the sea; for they were fishers. And Jesus said unto them, Follow me, 
and I will make you fishers of men. And they immediately left their nets there 
and followed him. And when he went on from thence, he saw other two brothers, 
James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the ship with Zebedee their 
father, mending their nets; and Jesus called them. And they immediately forsook 
the ship and their father Zebedee, and followed him. 
And when the multitude gathered unto him to hear the word of God, while he 
was standing on the shore of the sea of Gennesaret, he saw two boats standing 
beside the sea, while the two fishers which were gone out of them were washing 
their nets. And one of them belonged to Simon Cephas. And Jesus went up and sat 
down in it, and commanded that they should move away a little from the land into 
52 the water. And he sat down and taught the multitudes from the boat. And when 
he had left off his speaking, he said unto Simon, Put out into the deep, and 
cast your net for a draught. And Simon answered and said unto him, My Master, we 
toiled all night and caught nothing; now at thy word I will cast the net. And 
when they did this, there were enclosed a great many fishes; and their net was 
on the point of breaking. And they beckoned to their comrades that were in the 
other boat, to come and help them. And when they came, they filled both boats, 
so that they were on the point of sinking. 
SECTION VI. 
61 Arabic, But when Simon Cephas saw this he fell before the feet of Jesus, 
and said unto him, My Lord, I beseech of thee to depart from me, for I am 2 a 
sinful man. And amazement took possession of him, and of all who were with him, 
3 because of the draught of the fishes which they had taken. And thus also were 
James and John the sons of Zebedee overtaken, who were Simon's partners. And 
Jesus said 4 unto Simon, Fear not; henceforth thou shalt be a fisher of men unto 
life. And they brought the boats to the land; and they left everything, and 
followed him. 
5 And after that came Jesus and his disciples into the land of Judaea; and he 
went 6 about there with them, and baptized. And John also was baptizing in 
AEnon, which is beside Salim, because there was much water there: and they came, 
and were bap- 8 tized. And John was not yet come into prison. And there was an 
inquiry between 9 one of John's disciples and one of the Jews about purifying. 
And they came unto John, and said unto him, Our master, he that was with thee 
beyond Jordan, to whom thou hast borne witness, behold, he also baptizeth, and 
many come to him. John answered and said unto them, A man can receive nothing of 
himself, except it be given him from heaven. Ye are they that bear witness unto 
me that I said, I am not the Messiah, but I am one sent before him. And he that 
hath a bride is a bridegroom: and the friend of the bridegroom is he that 
standeth and listeneth to him, and rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom's 
voice. Lo now, behold, my 13, Arabic, joy becometh complete. And he must 
increase and I decrease. For he that is come from above is higher than 
everything; and he that is of the earth, of the earth he is, and of the earth he 
speaketh; and he that came down from heaven is higher than all. And he beareth 
witness of what he hath seen and heard: and no man receiveth his witness. And he 
that hath received his witness hath asserted that he is truly God. And he whom 
God hath sent speaketh the words of God: God gave not the Spirit by measure. The 
Father loveth the Son, and hath put everything in his hands. Whosoever believeth 
in the Son hath eternal life; but whosoever obeyeth not the Son shall not see 
life, but the wrath of God cometh upon him. 
20 And Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that he had received many 
disciples, and that he was baptizing more than John (not that Jesus was himself 
bap- tizing, but his disciples); and so he left Judaea. 
23 And Herod the governor, because he used to be rebuked by John because of 
Herodias the wife of Philip his brother, and for all the sins which he was 
commit- ting, added to all that also this, that he shut up John in prison. 
25 And when Jesus heard that John was delivered up, he went away to Galilee. 
And he entered again into Cans, where he had made the water wine. And there was 
at Capernaum a king's servant, whose son was sick. And this man heard that Jesus 
was come from Judaea to Galilee; and he went to him, and besought of him that he 
would come down and heal his son; for he had come near unto death. 28, Jesus 
said unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye do not believe. The Arabic, 
king's servant said unto him, My Lord, come down, that the child die not. Jesus 
said unto him, Go; for thy son is alive. And that man believed the word which 
Jesus spake, and went. And when he went down, his servants met him and told him, 
and said unto him, Thy son is alive. And he asked them at what time he 
recovered. They said unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him. 
And his father knew that that was at that hour in which Jesus said unto him, Thy 
son is alive. And he believed, he and the whole people of his house. And this is 
the second sign which Jesus did when he returned from Judaea to Galilee. And he 
was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee. 
36 And he left Nazareth, and came and dwelt in Capernaum by the sea shore, in 
the borders of Zebulun and Naphtali: that it might be fulfilled which was said 
in Isaiah the prophet, who said, The land of Zebulun, the land of Naphtali, The 
way of the sea, the passage of the Jordan, Galilee of the nations: 
39 The people sitting in darkness Saw a great light, And those sitting in the 
region and in the shadow of death, There appeared to them a light. 
40 And he taught them on the sabbaths. And they wondered because of his 
doctrine: for his word was as if it were authoritative. And there was in the 
synagogue a man with an unclean devil, and he cried out with a loud voice, and 
said, Let me alone; what have I to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art 
thou come for our destruction? I know thee who thou art, thou Holy One of God. 
And Jesus rebuked him, and said, Stop up thy mouth, and come out of him. And the 
demon threw him in the midst and came out of him, having done him no harm. And 
great amaze- Arabic, ment took hold upon every man. And they talked one with 
another, and said, What is this word that orders the unclean spirits with power 
and authority, and they come out? And the news of him spread abroad in all the 
region which was around them. 
46 And when Jesus went out of the synagogue, he saw a man sitting among the 
publicans, named Matthew: and he said unto him, Come after me. And he rose, and 
followed him. 
47, And Jesus came to the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John. And 
Simon's wife's mother was oppressed with a great fever, and they besought him 
for her. And he stood over her and rebuked her fever, and it left her, and 
immediately she rose and ministered to them. And at even they brought to him 
many that had demons: and he cast out their devils with the word. And all that 
had sick, their diseases being divers and malignant, brought them unto him. And 
he laid his hand on them one by one and healed them: that that might be 
fulfilled which was said in the prophet Isaiah, who said, He taketh our pains 
and beareth our diseases. And all the city was gathered together unto the door 
of Jesus. And he cast out devils also from many, as they were crying out and 
saying, Thou art the Messiah, the Son of God; and he rebuked them. And he 
suffered not the demons to speak, because they knew him that he was the Lord the 
Messiah. 
SECTION VII. 
7 Arabic, And in the morning of that day he went out very early, and went to 
a desert place, and was there praying. And Simon and those that were with him 
sought him. And when they found him, they said unto him, All the people seek for 
thee. He said unto them, Let us go into the adjacent villages and towns, that I 
may preach there also; for to this end did I come. And the multitudes were 
seeking him, and came till they reached him; and they took hold of him, that he 
should not go away from them. But Jesus said unto them, I must preach of the 
kingdom of God in other cities also: for because of this gospel was I sent. And 
Jesus was going about all the cities and the villages, and teaching in their 
synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all the 
diseases and all the sicknesses, 8 and casting out the devils. 
And his fame became known that he was teaching in 9 every place and being 
glorified by every man. And when he passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus 
sitting among the tax-gatherers; and he said unto him, Follow me: and he rose 
and followed him. And the news of him was heard of in all the land of Syria: and 
they brought unto him all those whom grievous ills had befallen through divers 
diseases, and those that were enduring torment, and those that were possessed, 
and lunatics, and paralytics; and he healed them. 
11, And after some days Jesus entered into Capernaum again. And when they 
heard that he was in the house, many gathered, so that it could not hold them, 
even about Arabic, the door; and he made known to them the word of God. And 
there were there some of the Pharisees and the teachers of the law, sitting, 
come from all the villages of Galilee, and Judaea, and Jerusalem; and the power 
of the Lord was present to heal them. And some men brought a bed with a man on 
it who was paralytic. And they sought to bring him in and lay him before him. 
And when they found no way to bring him in because of the multitude of people, 
they went up to the roof, and let him down with his bed from the roofing, into 
the midst before Jesus. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the 
paralytic, My son, thy sins are for- given thee. And the scribes and Pharisees 
began to think within their hearts, Why doth this man blaspheme? Who is it that 
is able to forgive sins, but God alone? 18 And Jesus knew by the spirit that 
they were thinking this within themselves, and he said unto them, Why do ye 
think this within your heart? Which is better, that it should be said to the 
paralytic, Thy sins are forgiven thee, or that it should be said to him, Arise, 
and take thy bed, and walk? That ye may know that the Son of man is empowered on 
earth to forgive sins (and he said to the paralytic), I say unto thee, Arise, 
take thy bed, and go to thine house. And he rose forthwith, and took his bed, 
and went out in the presence of all. And he went to his house praising God. And 
when those multitudes saw, they feared; and amazement took possession of them, 
and they praised God, who had given such power to men. And they said, We have 
seen marvellous things to-day, of which we have never before seen the like. 
25 Arabic, And after that, Jesus went out, and saw a publican, named Levi, 
sitting among the publicans: and he said unto him, Follow me. And he left 
everything, and rose, and followed him. And Levi made him a great feast in his 
house. And there was a great multitude of the publicans and others sitting with 
him. And the scribes and Pharisees murmured, and said unto his disciples, Why do 
ye eat and drink with the publicans and sinners? Jesus answered and said unto 
them, The physician seeketh not those who are well, but those that are afflicted 
with grievous 30, sickness. I came not to call the righteous, but the sinners, 
to repentance. And they said unto him, Why do the disciples of John fast always, 
and pray, and the Pharisees also, but thy disciples eat and drink? He said unto 
them, Ye cannot make the sons of the marriage feast fast, while the bridegroom 
is with them. Days will come, when the bridegroom is taken away from them; then 
will they fast in those days. And he spake unto them a parable: No man inserteth 
a new patch and seweth it in a worn garment, lest the newness of the new take 
from the worn, and there occur a great rent. And no man putteth fresh wine into 
old skins, lest the wine burst the skins, and the skins be destroyed, and the 
wine spilled; but they put the fresh wine in the new skins, and both are 
preserved. And no man drinketh old wine and straightway desireth fresh; for he 
saith, The old is better. 
37 And while Jesus was walking on the sabbath day among the sown fields, his 
disciples hungered. And they were rubbing the ears with their hands, and eating. 
But some of the Pharisees, when they saw them, said unto him, See, why do thy 
disciples on the sabbath day that which is not lawful? But Jesus said unto them, 
Have ye not read in olden time what David did, when he had need and hungered, he 
and those that were with him? how he entered the house of God, when Abiathar was 
high priest, and ate the bread of the table of the Lord, which it was not lawful 
that any should eat, save the priests, and gave to them that were with him also? 
And he said unto them, The sabbath was created because of man, and man was not 
created because of the sabbath. Or have ye not read in the law, that the priests 
in the temple profane the sabbath, and yet they are blameless? I say unto you 
now, that here is what is greater than the temple. If ye had known this. I love 
mercy, not sacrifice, ye would not have condemned those on whom is no blame. The 
Lord of the sabbath is the Son of man. And his relatives heard, and went out to 
take him, and said, He hath gone out of his mind. 
47 And on the next sabbath day he entered into the synagogue and was teach- 
ing. And there was there a man whose right hand was withered. And the scribes 
and the Pharisees were watching him, whether he would heal on the sabbath day, 
that they might find the means of accusing him. But he knew their thoughts, and 
said unto the man whose hand was withered, Rise and come near into the midst of 
the synagogue. And when he came and stood, Jesus said unto them, I ask you, 
which is lawful to be done on the sabbath day, good or evil? shall lives be 
saved or Arabic, destroyed? But they were silent. Regarding them with anger, 
being grieved because of the hardness of their hearts. And he said unto the man, 
Stretch out thy hand. And he stretched it out: and his hand became straight. 
Then he said unto them, What man of you shall have one sheep, and if it fall 
into a well on the sabbath day, will not take it and lift it out? And how much 
is man better than a sheep! Wherefore it is lawful on the sabbath to do good. 
SECTION VIII. 
8 1 And the Pharisees went out, and consulted together concerning him, that 
they 2 might destroy him. And Jesus perceived, and removed thence: and great 
multitudes 3 followed him; and he healed all of them: and he forbade them that 
they should 4 not make him known: that the saying in Isaiah the prophet might be 
fulfilled, which said, 5 Behold, my servant with whom I am pleased; My beloved 
in whom my soul hath delighted: 
My spirit have I put upon him, And he shall proclaim to the nations 
judgement. 
6 He shall not dispute, nor cry out; And no man shall hear his voice in the 
marketplace. 
7 And a bruised reed shall he not break, And a smoking lamp shall he not 
extinguish, until he shall bring forth judgement unto victory. 
8 And the nations shall rejoice in his name. 
9 And in those days Jesus went out to the mountain that he might pray, and he 
spent the night there in prayer to God. And when the morning was come, he called 
the disciples. And he went towards the sea: and there followed him much people 
from Galilee that he might pray, and from Judaea, and from Jerusalem, and from 
Idumaea, and from beyond Jordan, and from Tyre, and from Sidon, and from De- 12 
capolis; and great multitudes came unto him, which had heard what he did. And he 
spake to his disciples to bring him the boat because of the multitudes, that 
they might not throng him. And he healed many, so that they were almost falling 
on Arabic, him on account of their seeking to get near him. And those that had 
plagues and unclean spirits, as soon as they beheld him, would fall, and cry 
out, and say, Thou art the Son of God. And he rebuked them much, that they 
should not make him known. And those that were under the constraint of un- clean 
spirits were healed. And all of the crowd were seeking to come near him; because 
power went out from him, and he healed them all. 
18, And when Jesus saw the multitudes, he went up to the mountain. And he 
called his disciples, and chose from them twelve; and they are those whom he 
named apostles: Simon, whom he named Cephas, and Andrew his brother, and James 
and John, and Philip and Bartholomew, and Matthew and Thomas, and James the son 
of Alphaeus, and Simon which was called the Zealot, and Judas the son of James, 
and Judas the Iscariot, being he that had betrayed him. And Jesus went down with 
them and stood in the plain, and the company of his disciples, and the great 
multitude of people. And these twelve he chose to be with him, and that he might 
send them to preach, and to have power to heal the sick and to cast out devils. 
26 Then he lifted up his eyes unto them, and opened his mouth, and taught 
them, and said, Blessed are the poor in spirit: for the kingdom of heaven is 
theirs. 
28 Blessed are the sorrowful: for they shall be comforted. 
29 Blessed are the humble: for they shall inherit the earth. 
30 Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they 
shall be satisfied. 
31 Blessed are the merciful: for on them shall be mercy. 
32 Arabic, Blessed are the pure in their hearts: for they shall see God. 
33 Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the sons of God. 
34 Blessed are they that were persecuted for righteousness' sake: for the 
kingdom of heaven is theirs. 
35 Blessed are ye when men shall hate you, and separate you from them, and 
persecute you, and reproach you, and shall speak against you with all evil talk, 
for my sake, falsely. Then rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in 
heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets before you. 
37 But woe unto you rich! for ye hive received your consolation. 
38 Woe unto you that are satisfied! ye shall hunger. 
Woe unto you that laugh now! ye shall weep and be sad. 
39 Woe unto you when men praise you! for so did their fathers use to do to 
the false prophets. 
40 Unto you do I say, ye which hear, Ye are the salt of the earth: if then 
the salt become tasteless, wherewith shall it be salted? For any purpose it is 
of no use, but is thrown outside, and men tread upon it. Ye are the light of the 
world. It is impossible that a city built on a mountain should be hid. Neither 
do they light a lamp and place it under a bushel, but on the lamp-stand, and it 
giveth light to all who are in the house. So shall your light shine before men, 
that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven. 
There is nothing secret that shall not be revealed, or hidden that shall not be 
known. Whoever hath ears that hear, let him hear. 
46 Think not that I came to destroy the law or the prophets; I came not to 
destroy, but to complete. Verily I say unto you, Until heaven and earth shall 
pass, there Arabic, shall not pass one point or one letter of the law, until all 
of it shall be accomplished. Every one who shall violate now one of these small 
commandments, and shall teach men so, shall be called lacking in the kingdom of 
heaven: every one that shall do and teach shall be called great in the kingdom 
of heaven. I say unto you now, unless your righteousness abound more than that 
of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall not enter the kingdom of heaven. 
50 Ye have heard that it was said to the ancients, Do not kill; and every one 
that killeth is worthy of the judgement. But I say unto you that every one who 
is angry with his brother without a cause is worthy of the judgement; and every 
one that saith to his brother, Thou foul one, is condemned by the synagogue; and 
whoso- 52 ever saith to him, Thou fool, is worthy of the fire of Gehenna. If 
thou art now offering thy gift at the altar, and rememberest there that thy 
brother hath conceived against thee any grudge, leave thy gift at the altar, and 
go first and satisfy thy brother, and then return and offer thy gift. Join thine 
adversary quickly, and while thou art still with him in the way, give a ransom 
and free thyself from him; test thine adversary deliver thee to the judge, and 
the judge deliver thee to the tax- collector, and thou fall into prison. And 
verily I say unto thee, Thou shall not go out thence until thou payest the last 
farthing. 
57, Ye have heard that it was said, Do not commit adultery: but I now say 
unto you, that every one that looketh at a woman lusting after her hath 
forthwith already Arabic, committed adultery with her in his heart. If thy right 
eye injure thee, put p. 34 it out and cast it from thee; for it is preferable 
for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not thy whole body go into 
the fire of hell. And if thy right hand injure thee, cut it off and cast it from 
thee; and it is better for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not 
thy whole body fall into Gehenna. It was said that he that putteth away his wife 
should give her a writing of divorcement: but I say unto you, that every one 
that putteth away his wife, except for the cause of adultery, hath made it 
lawful for her to commit adultery: and whosoever taketh one that is put away 
committeth adultery. 
SECTION IX. 
9 1 Ye have heard also that it was said unto the ancients, Lie not, but 
perform unto 2 God in thy oaths: but I say unto you, Swear not at all; neither 
by heaven, for it 3 is God's throne; nor by the earth, for it is a footstool 
under his feet; nor yet by 4 Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King. 
Neither shalt thou swear by thy 5 head, for thou canst not make in it one lock 
of hair black or white. But your word shall be either Yea or Nay, and what is in 
excess of this is of the evil one. 
6, 7 Ye have heard that it was said, Eye for eye, and tooth for tooth: but I 
say unto you, Stand not in opposition to the evil; but whosoever smiteth thee on 
thy right 8 cheek, turn to him also the other. And he that would sue thee, and 
take thy tunic, 9 leave to him also thy wrapper. And whosoever compelleth thee 
one mite, go with Arabic, him twain. And he that asketh thee, give unto him: and 
he that would borrow of thee, prevent him not. And prosecute not him that taketh 
thy substance. And as ye desire that men should do to you, so do ye also to 
them. 
12, Ye have heard that it was said, Love thy neighbour and hate thine enemy: 
but I say unto you, Love your enemies, and pray for those that curse you, and 
deal well with those that hate you, and pray for those who take you with 
violence and persecute you; that ye may be sons of your heavenly Father, who 
maketh his sun to rise on the good and the evil, and sendeth down his rain on 
the righteous and the unrighteous. If ye love them that love you, what reward 
shall ye have? for the pub- licans and sinners also love those that love them. 
And if ye do a kindness to those who treat you well, where is your superiority? 
for sinners also do likewise. And if ye lend to him of whom ye hope for a 
reward, where is your superiority? for the sinners also lend to sinners, seeking 
recompense from them. But love your enemies, and do good to them, and lend, and 
cut not off the hope of any man; that your reward may be great, and ye may be 
the children of the Highest: for he is lenient towards the wicked and the 
ungrateful. Be ye merciful, even as your Father also is merciful. And if ye 
inquire for the good of your brethren only, what more have ye done than others? 
is not this the conduct of the publicans also? Be ye now perfect, even as your 
Father which is in heaven is perfect. 
22 Consider your alms; do them not before men to let them see you: and if it 
be not so, ye have no reward before your Father which is in the heavens. When 
then thou givest an alms now, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as do the 
people of hypocrisy, Arabic, in the synagogues and the marketplaces, that men 
may praise them. And verily say I unto you, They have received their reward. But 
thou, when thou doest alms, let thy left hand not know what thy right hand 
doeth; that thine alms may be concealed: and thy Father which seeth in secret 
shall reward thee openly. 
26 And whenever thou prayest, be not as the hypocrites, who love to stand in 
the synagogues and in the corners of the marketplaces for prayers, that men may 
be- hold them. And verily say I unto you, They have received their reward. But 
thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and fasten thy door, and pray to 
thy Father in secret, and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee 
openly. And whenever ye pray, be not babblers, as the heathen; for they think 
that by the abundance of their words they shall be heard. Then be not ye now 
like unto them: for your Father knoweth your request before ye ask him. One of 
his disciples said unto him, Our Lord, teach us to pray, as John taught his 
disciples. Jesus said unto them, Thus now pray ye now: Our Father which art in 
heaven, Hallowed be thy 33, name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, as in 
heaven, so on earth. Give us the food of to-day. And forgive, us our trespasses, 
as we forgave those that trespassed against us. And bring us not into 
temptations, but deliver us from the evil one. For thine is the kingdom, and the 
power, and the glory, for ever and ever. If ye forgive Arabic, men their 
wrong-doing, your Father which is in heaven will forgive you. p. 37 But if ye 
forgive not men, neither will your Father pardon your wrong-doing. 
39 When ye fast, do not frown, as the hypocrites; for they make their faces 
austere, that they may be seen of men that they are fasting. Verily I say unto 
you, They have received their reward. But when thou fastest, wash thy face and 
anoint thy head; that thou make not an appearance to men of fasting, but to thy 
Father which is in secret: and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward 
thee. 
42 Be not agitated, little flock; for your Father hath delighted to give you 
the king- dom. Sell your possessions, and give in alms; take to yourselves 
purses that wax not old. Lay not up treasure on earth, where moth and worm 
corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: but lay up for yourselves 
treasure in heaven, where moth and worm do not corrupt, nor thieves break 
through nor steal: for where your treasure is, there also will your heart be. 
The lamp of the body is the eye: if then thine eye now be sound, thy whole body 
also shall be light. But if thine eye be evil, all thy body shall be dark. And 
if the light which is in thee is darkness, how great is thy darkness! Be 
watchful that the light which is in thee be not darkness. Because that, if thy 
whole body is light, and have no part dark, it shall all be light, as the lamp 
giveth light to thee with its flame. 
SECTION X. 
10 1 Arabic, NO man can serve two masters; and that because it is necessary 
that he hate one of them and love the other, and honour one of them and despise 
the 2 other. Ye cannot serve God and possessions. And because of this I say unto 
you, Be not anxious for yourselves, what ye shall eat and what ye shall drink; 
neither for your bodies, what ye shall put on. Is not the life better than the 
food, and the body 3 than the raiment? Consider the birds of the heaven, which 
sow not, nor reap, nor store in barns; and yet your Father which is in heaven 
feedeth them. Are not ye 4 better than they? Who of you when he trieth is able 
to add to his stature one 5 cubit? If then ye are not able for a small thing, 
why are ye anxious about the 7 rest? Consider the wild lily, how it grows, 
although it toils not, nor spins; and I say unto you that Solomon in the 
greatness of his glory was not clothed like one of 8 them. And if God so clothe 
the grass of the field, which to-day is, and to-morrow 9 is cast into the oven, 
how much more shall be unto you, O ye of little faith! Be not anxious, so as to 
say, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, With what shall we be 
clothed? Neither let your minds be perplexed in this: all these things the 
nations of the world seek; and your Father which is in heaven knoweth your need 
of all these things. Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteous- 
Arabic. ness; and all these shall come to you as something additional for you. 
Be not anxious for the morrow; for the morrow shall be anxious for what belongs 
to it. Sufficient unto the day is its evil. 
13 Judge not, that ye be not judged: condemn not, that ye be not condemned: 
forgive, and it shall be forgiven you: release, and ye shall be released: give, 
that ye may be given unto; with good measure, abundant, full, they shall thrust 
into your bosoms. With what measure ye measure it shall be measured to you. See 
to it what ye hear: with what measure ye measure it shall be measured to you; 
and ye shall be given more. I say unto those that hear, He that hath shall be 
given unto; and he that hath not, that which he regards as his shall be taken 
from him. And he spake unto them a parable, Can a blind man haply guide a blind 
man? shall they not both fall into a hollow? A disciple is not better than his 
master; 19 every perfect man shall be as his master. Why lookest thou at the 
mote which is in the eye of thy brother, but considerest not the column that is 
in thine own eye? Or how canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, I will take out 
the mote from thine eye; and the column which is in thine eye thou seest not? 
Thou hypocrite, take out first the column from thine eye; and then shalt thou 
see to take out the mote from the eye of thy brother. 
21 Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast your pearls before 
the swine, lest they trample them with their feet, and return and wound you. And 
he said unto them, Who of you, that hath a friend, goeth to him at mid- night, 
and saith unto him, My friend, lend me three loaves; for a friend hath come to 
me from a journey, and I have nothing to offer to him: and that friend shall 
Arabic, answer him from within, and say unto him, Trouble me not; for the door 
is shut, and my children are with me in bed, and I cannot rise and give thee? 
And verily I say unto you, If he will not give him because of friendship, yet 
because of his importunity he will rise and give him what he seeketh. And I also 
say unto you, Ask, and ye shall be given unto; seek, and ye shall find; knock, 
and it shall be opened unto you. Every one that asketh receiveth, and he that 
seeketh findeth, and he that knocketh, it shall be opened to him. What father of 
you, shall his son ask for bread--will he, think you, give him a stone? and if 
he ask of him a fish, will he, think you, instead of the fish give him a 
serpent? and if he ask him for an egg, will he, think you, extend to him a 
scorpion? If ye then, although being evil, know the gifts which are good, and 
give them to your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven 
give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? Whatsoever ye would that men should 
do to you, do ye even so to them: this is the law and the prophets. 
32 Enter ye by the narrow gate; for the wide gate and the broad way lead to 
de- struction, and many they be which go therein. How narrow is the gate and 
straitened the way leading to life! and few be they that find it. 
34 Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, while 
within they are ravening wolves. But by their fruits ye shall know them. For 
every tree is known by its fruit. For figs are not gathered of thorns, neither 
are grapes plucked of briers. Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, 
but the evil tree bringeth Arabic, forth evil fruit. The good tree cannot bring 
forth evil fruit, neither can the evil tree bring forth good fruit. The good man 
from the good treasures that are in his heart bringeth forth good things; and 
the evil man from the evil treasures that are in his heart bringeth forth evil 
things: and from the overflowings of the heart the lips speak. Every tree that 
beareth not good fruit is cut down and cast 40, into the fire. Therefore by 
their fruits ye shall know them. Not all that say unto me, My Lord, my Lord, 
shall enter the kingdom of the heavens; but he that doeth the will of my Father 
which is in heaven. Many shall say unto me in that day, My Lord, my Lord, did we 
not prophesy in thy name, and in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name do 
many powers? Then shall I say unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye 
servants of iniquity. Every man that cometh unto me, and heareth my sayings, and 
doeth them, I will shew you to what he is like: he is like the wise man which 
built a house, and digged and went deep, and laid the foundations on a rock: and 
the rain came down, and the rivers overflowed, and the winds blew, and shook 
that house, and it fell not: for its foundation was laid on rocks. And every one 
that heareth these my words, and doeth them not, is like 48 the foolish man 
which built his house on sand, without foundation: and the rain descended, and 
the rivers overflowed, and the winds blew, and smote upon that house, and it 
fell: and the fall of it was great. 
SECTION XI. 
11 1 Arabic, And when Jesus finished these sayings, the multitudes were 
astonished 2 at his teaching; and that because he was teaching them as one 
having authority, not as their scribes and the Pharisees. 
3 And when he descended from the mountain, great multitudes followed him. 
4 And when Jesus entered Capernaum, the servant of one of the chiefs was in 
an 5 evil case, and he was precious to him, and he was at the point of death. 
And he 6 heard of Jesus, and came to him with the elders of the Jews; and he 
besought him, and said, My Lord, my boy is laid in the house paralysed, and he 
is suffering griev- 7 ous torment. And the elders urgently requested of him, and 
said, He is worthy that 8 this should be done unto him: for he loveth our 
people, and he also built the syna- gogue for us. Jesus said unto him, I will 
come and heal him. That chief answered and said, My Lord, I am not worthy that 
my roof should shade thee; but it sufficeth that thou speak a word, and my lad 
shall be healed. And I also am a man in obedience to authority, having under my 
hand soldiers: and I say to this one, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, 
and he cometh; and to my servant that he do this, and he doeth it. And when 
Jesus heard that, he marvelled at him, and turned and said unto the multitude 
that were coming with him, Verily I say unto you, I have not found in Israel the 
like of this faith. I say unto you, that many shall come from Arabic, the east 
and the west, and shall recline with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob p. in the 
kingdom of heaven: but the children of the kingdom shall be cast forth into the 
outer darkness: and there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And Jesus said 
to that chief, Go thy way; as thou hast believed, so shall it be unto thee. And 
his lad was healed in that hour. And that chief returned to the house and found 
that sick servant healed. 
17 And the day after, he was going to a city called Nain, and his disciples 
with him, and a great multitude. And when he was come near the gate of the city, 
he saw a crowd accompanying one that was dead, the only son of his mother; and 
his mother was a widow: and there was with her a great multitude of the people 
of the city. And when Jesus saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto 
her, Weep not. And he went and advanced to the bier, and the bearers of it stood 
still; and he said, Young man, I say unto thee, Arise. And that dead man sat up 
and began to speak; and he gave him to his mother. And fear came on all the 
people: and they praised God, and said, There hath risen among us a great 
prophet: and, God 23 hath had regard to his people. And this news concerning him 
spread in all Judaea, and in all the region which was about them. 
24 And when Jesus saw great multitudes surrounding him, he commanded them to 
depart to the other side. And while they were going in the way, there came one 
of the scribes and said unto him, My Master, I will follow thee whithersoever 
thou goest. Jesus said unto him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the 
heaven have nests; but the Son of man hath not a place in which to lay his head. 
And he said unto another, Follow me. And he said unto him, My Lord, suffer me 
first to go and bury my father. Jesus said unto him, Leave the dead to bury 
their dead; but thou, follow me and preach the kingdom of God. And another said 
unto him, I will fol- Arabic, low thee, my Lord; but first suffer me to go and 
salute my household and come. Jesus said unto him, There is no one who putteth 
his hand to the plough and looketh behind him, and yet is fit for the kingdom of 
God. 
31 And he said to them on that day in the evening, Let us go over to the 
other side of the lake; and he left the multitudes. And Jesus went up and sat in 
the ship, he and his disciples, and there were with them other ships. And there 
occurred on the sea a great tempest of whirlwind and wind, and the ship was on 
the point of sinking from the greatness of the waves. But Jesus was sleeping on 
a cushion in the stern of the ship; and his disciples came and awoke him, and 
said unto him, Our Lord, save us; lo, we perish. And he rose, and rebuked the 
winds and the turbulence of the water, and said to the sea, Be still, for thou 
art rebuked; and the wind was still, and there was a great calm. And he said 
unto them, Why are ye thus afraid? and why have ye no faith? And they feared 
greatly. And they marvelled, and said one to another, Who, think you, is this, 
who commandeth also the wind and the waves and the sea, and they obey him? 
38 And they departed and came to the country of the Gadarenes, which is on 
the other side, opposite the land of Galilee. And when he went out of the ship 
to the land, there met him from among the tombs a man who had a devil for a long 
time, and wore no clothes, neither dwelt in a house, but among the tombs. And no 
man was Arabic, able to bind him with chains, because an y time that he was 
bound with chains and fetters he cut the chains and loosened the fetters; and he 
was snatched away of the devil into the desert, and no man was able to quiet 
him; and at all times, in the night and in the day, he would be among the tombs 
and in the mountains; and no man was able to pass by that way; and he would cry 
out and wound himself with stones. And when he saw Jesus at a distance, he 
hastened and worshipped him, and cried with a loud voice and said, What have we 
to do with thee, Jesus, Son of the most high God? I adjure thee by God, torment 
me not. And Jesus commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man: and he 
had suffered a long time since the time when he came into captivity to it. 
And Jesus asked him, What is thy name? He said unto him, Legion; for there 
had entered into him many devils. And they besought him that he would not 
command them to depart into the depths. And there was there a herd of many 
swine, feeding in the mountain, and those devils besought him to give them leave 
to enter the swine; and he gave them leave. And the devils went out of the man 
and entered into the swine. And that herd hastened to the summit and fell down 
into the midst of the sea, about two thousand, and they were choked in the 
water. And when the keepers saw what happened, they fled, and told those in the 
cities and villages. And the people went out to see what had happened; and they 
came to Jesus, and found the man whose Arabic, devils had gone out, clothed, 
modest, seated at the feet of Jesus; and they feared. And they reported what 
they saw, and how the man was healed who had a devil, and concerning those swine 
also. 
SECTION XII. 
12 1 And all the multitude of the Gadarenes entreated him to depart from 
them, because that great fear took hold upon them. 
2, 3 But Jesus went up into the ship, and crossed, and came to his city. And 
that man from whom the devils went out entreated that he might stay with him; 
but 4 Jesus sent him away, and said unto him, Return to thy house, and make 
known what 5 God hath done for thee. And he went, and began to publish in 
Decapolis what Jesus had done for him; and they all marvelled. 
6 And when Jesus had crossed in the ship to that side, a great multitude 
received 7 him; and they were all looking for him. And a man named Jairus, the 
chief of the 8 synagogue, fell before the feet of Jesus, and besought him much, 
and said unto him, I have an only daughter, and she is come nigh unto death; but 
come and lay thy 9 hand upon her, and she shall live. And Jesus rose, and his 
disciples, and they fol- lowed him. And there joined him a great multitude, and 
they pressed him. 
11, And a woman, which had a flow of blood for twelve years, had suffered 
much of many physicians, and spent all that she had, and was not benefited at 
all, but her trouble increased further. And when she heard of Jesus, she came in 
the thronging of Arabic, the crowd behind him, and touched a his garments; and 
she thought within herself, If I could reach to touch his garments, I should 
live. And immediately the fountain of her blood was dried; and she felt in her 
body that she was healed of her plague. And Jesus straightway knew within 
himself that power had gone out of him; and he turned to the crowd, and said, 
Who approached unto my garments? And on their denying, all of them, Simon Cephas 
and those with him said unto him, Our Master, the multitudes throng thee and 
press thee, and sayest thou, Who ap- proached unto me? And he said, Some one 
approached unto me; and I knew that power went forth from me. And that woman, 
when she saw that she was not hid from him, came fearing and agitated (for she 
knew what had happened to her), and fell down and worshipped him, and told, in 
the presence of all the people, for what reason she touched him, and how she was 
healed immediately. And Jesus said unto her, Be of good courage, daughter; thy 
faith hath made thee alive; depart in peace, and be whole from thy plague. 
22 And while he was yet speaking, there came a man from the house of the 
chief of the synagogue, and said unto him, Thy daughter hath died; so trouble 
not the teacher. But Jesus heard, and said unto the father of the maid, Fear 
not: but be- lieve only, and she shall live. And he suffered no man to go with 
him, except Simon Cephas, and James, and John the brother of James. And they 
reached the house of the chief of the synagogue; and he saw them agitated, 
weeping and wail- ing. And he entered, and said unto them, Why are ye agitated 
and weeping? the Arabic, maid hath not died, but she is sleeping. And they 
laughed at him, for they knew that she had died. And he put every man forth 
without, and took the father of the maid, and her mother, and Simon, and James, 
and John, and entered into the place where the maid was laid. And he took hold 
of the hand of the maid, and said unto her, Maid, arise. And her spirit 
returned, and straightway she arose and walked: and she was about twelve years 
of age. And he commanded that there should be given to her something to eat. And 
her father wondered greatly: and he warned them that they should tell no man 
what had happened. And this report spread in all that land. 
33 And when Jesus crossed over from there, there joined him two blind men, 
crying out, and saying, Have mercy on us, thou son of David. And when he came to 
the house, those two blind men came to him: and Jesus said unto them, Believe ye 
that I am able to do this? They said unto him, Yea, our Lord. 
Then he touched their eyes, and said, As ye have believed, it shall be unto 
you. And immediately their eyes were opened. And Jesus forbade them, and said, 
See that no man know. But they went out and published the news in all that land. 

38 And when Jesus went out, they brought to him a dumb man having a devil. 
And on the going out of the devil that dumb man spake. And the multitudes 
marvelled, and said, It was never so seen in Israel And Jesus was going about in 
all the cities and in the villages, and teaching in their synagogues, and 
proclaiming the good news of the kingdom, and healing every disease Arabic, and 
sickness; and many followed him. And when Jesus saw the multitudes, p. he had 
compassion on them, for they were wearied and scattered, as sheep that have no 
shepherd. And he called his twelve disciples, and gave them power and much 
authority over all devils and diseases; and sent them two and two, that they 
might proclaim the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick. And he charged them, 
and said, Walk not in the way of the heathen, nor enter into the cities of the 
Sa- 45, maritans. Go especially unto the sheep that are lost of the sons of 
Israel. And when ye go, proclaim and say, The kingdom of heaven is come near. 
And heal the sick, and cleanse the lepers, and cast out the devils: freely ye 
have received, freely 48, give. Get you not gold, nor silver, nor brass in your 
purses; and take nothing for the way, except a staff only; nor bag, nor bread; 
neither shall ye have two tunics, nor shoes, nor staff, but be shod with 
sandals; for the labourer is worthy of his food. And whatever city or village ye 
enter, inquire who is worthy in it, and there be until 52, ye go out. And when 
ye enter into the house, ask for the peace of the house: and if the house is 
worthy, your peace shall come upon it; but if it is not worthy, your peace shall 
return unto you. And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your sayings, 
when ye go out from that house, or from that village, shake off the dust Arabic, 
that is under your feet against them for a testimony. And verily I say p. 50 
unto you, To the land of Sodom and Gomorrah there shall be rest in the day of 
judgement, rather than to that city. 
SECTION XIII. 
13 1 I am sending you as lambs among wolves: be ye now wise as serpents, and 
harmless as doves. Beware of men: they shall deliver you to the councils of the 
magistrates, and scourge you in their synagogues; and shall bring you before 
governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them and against the 
nations. And when they deliver you up, be not s anxious, nor consider 
beforehand, what ye shall say; but ye shall be given in that hour what ye ought 
to speak. Ye do not speak, but the Spirit of your Father speaketh in you. The 
brother shall deliver up his brother to death, and the father his son; and the 
sons shall rise against their parents, and put them to death. And ye shall be 
hated of every man because of my name; but he that endureth unto the end of the 
matter shall be saved. When they expel you from this city, flee to another. 
Verily I say unto you, Ye shall not finish all the cities of the people of 
Israel, until the Son of man come. 
9, A disciple is not superior to his lord, nor a servant to his master. For 
it is enough then for the disciple that he be as his lord, and the servant as 
his master. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebul, how much more 
the people of his house! Fear them not therefore: for there is nothing covered, 
that shall Arabic, not be revealed; nor hid, that shall not be disclosed and 
published. What I say unto you in the darkness, speak ye in the light; and what 
ye have told secretly in the ears in closets, let it be proclaimed on the 
housetops. I say unto you now, my beloved, Be not agitated at those who kill the 
body, but have no power to kill the soul. I will inform you whom ye shall fear: 
him which is able to destroy soul and body in hell. Yea, I say unto you, Be 
afraid of him especially. Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing in a bond? 
and one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father. But what 
concerns you: even the hair of your heads 17, also is numbered. Fear not 
therefore; ye are better than many sparrows. Every man who confesseth me now 
before men, I also will confess him before my Father which is in heaven; but 
whosoever denieth me before men, I also will deny him before my Father which is 
in heaven. 
20 Think ye that I am come to cast peace into the earth? I came not to cast 
peace, but to cast dissension. Henceforth there shall be five in one house, 
three of them disagreeing with two, and the two with the three. The father shall 
become hostile to his son, and the son to his father; and the mother to her 
daughter, and the daughter to her mother; and the mother in law to her daughter 
in law, and the daughter in law to her mother in law: and a man's enemies shall 
be the people of his house. Whosoever loveth father or mother better than me is 
not worthy of me; and whoso- Arabic, ever loveth son or daughter more than his 
love of me is not worthy of me. And every one that doth not take his cross and 
follow me is not worthy of me. Whosoever findeth his life shall lose it; and 
whosoever loseth his life for my sake shah find it. 
27 And whosoever receiveth you receiveth me; and whosoever receiveth me re- 
ceiveth him that sent me. And whosoever receiveth a prophet in the name of a 
prophet shall take a prophet's reward; and whosoever shall receive a righteous 
man in the name of a righteous man shall take a righteous man's reward. And 
every one that shall give to drink to one of these least ones a drink of water 
only, in the name of a disciple, verily I say unto you, he shall not lose his 
reward. 
30 And when Jesus finished charging his twelve disciples, he removed thence 
to teach and preach in their cities. And while they were going in the way they 
entered into a certain village; and a woman named Martha entertained him in her 
house. And she had a sister named Mary, and she came and sat at the feet of our 
Lord, and heard his sayings. But Martha was disquieted by much serving; and she 
came and said unto him, My Lord, givest thou no heed that my sister left me 
alone to serve? speak to her that she help me. Jesus answered and said unto her, 
Martha, Martha, thou art solicitous and impatient on account of many things: but 
what is sought is one thing. But Mary hath chosen for herself a good portion, 
and that which shall not be taken from her. 
36 And the apostles went forth, and preached to the people that they might 
repent. And they cast out many devils, and anointed many sick with oil, and 
healed them. 38, And the disciples of John told him s of all these things. And 
when John heard in Arabic, the prison of the doings of the Messiah, he called 
two of his disciples, and sent them to Jesus, and said, Art thou he that cometh, 
or look we for another? And they came to Jesus, and said unto him, John the 
Baptist hath sent us unto thee, and said. Art thou he that cometh, or look we 
for another? And in that hour he cured many of diseases, and of plagues of an 
evil spirit; and he gave sight to many blind. Jesus answered and said unto them, 
Go and tell John everything ye have seen and heard: the blind see, and the lame 
walk, and the lepers are cleansed, and the blind hear, and the dead rise, and 
the poor have the gospel preached to them. And blessed is he who doubteth not in 
me. 
And when John's disciples departed, Jesus began to say to the multitudes 
concerning John, What went ye out into the wilderness to see? a reed shaken with 
the winds? And if not, then what went ye out to see? a man clothed in soft 
raiment? Behold, they that are in magnificent garments and in voluptuousness are 
in the abode of kings. And if not, then what went ye out to see? a prophet? Yea, 
I say unto you, and more than a prophet. This is he of whom it is written, I am 
sending my messenger before thy face To prepare the way before thee. 
SECTION XIV. 
14 1 Verily I say unto you, There hath not arisen among those whom women have 
borne a greater than John the Baptist; but he that is little now in the kingdom 
of heaven is greater than he. 
2 Arabic, And all the people which heard, and the publicans, justified: God, 
for 3 they had been baptized with the baptism of John. But the Pharisees and the 
scribes wronged the purpose of God in themselves, in that they were not baptized 
of 4 him. And from the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven 
is 5 snatched away by violence. The law and the prophets were until John; and 
after that, the kingdom of God is preached, and all press to enter it: and they 
that exert them- 7 selves snatch it away. All the prophets and the law until 
John prophesied. And if ye 8 will, then receive it, that he is Elijah, which is 
to come. Whosoever hath ears that hear 9 let him hear. Easier is the perishing 
of heaven and earth, than the passing away of one point of the law. To whom then 
shall I liken the people of this generation, and to whom are they like? They are 
like the children sitting in the market, which call to their companions, and 
say, We sang to you, and ye danced not; we wailed to you, and ye wept not. John 
the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine; and ye said, He hath 
demons: and the Son of man came eating and drinking; and ye said, Behold, a 
gluttonous man, and a drinker of wine, and an associate of pub- 14, 15 licans 
and sinners! And wisdom was justified of all her children. And when he said 
that, they came to the house. And there gathered unto him again multitudes, so 
that they found not bread to eat. And while he was casting out a devil which was 
dumb, when he cast out that devil, that dumb man spake. And the multitudes 
Arabic. marvelled. And the Pharisees, when they heard, said, This man doth not 
cast out the devils, except by Beelzebul the chief of the demons, which is in 
him. 18, And others requested of him a sign from heaven, to tempt him. And Jesus 
knew their thoughts, and said unto them in parables, Every kingdom that 
withstandeth itself shall become desolate; and every house or city that 
disagreeth with itself shall not stand: and if a devil cast out a devil, he 
withstandeth himself; neither shall he be able to stand, but his end shall be. 
Then how now shall his kingdom stand? for ye said that I cast out devils by 
Beelzebul. And if I by Beelzebul cast out the devils, then your children, by 
what do they cast them out? And for this cause they shall be judges against you. 
But if I by the Spirit of God cast out devils, then the king- dom of God is come 
near unto you. Or how can a man enter into the house of a valiant man, and seize 
his garments, if he do not beforehand secure himself from that valiant man? and 
then will he cut off his house. But when the valiant man is armed, guarding his 
house, his possessions are in peace. But if one come who is more valiant than 
he, he overcometh him, and taketh his whole armour, on which he relieth, and 
divideth his spoil. Whosoever is not with me is against me; and whosoever 
gathereth not with me scattereth abroad. For this reason I say unto you, Arabic. 
that all sins and blasphemies with which men blaspheme shall be forgiven them: 
but whosoever shall blaspheme against the Holy Spirit, there is no forgiveness 
for him for ever, but he is deserving of eternal punishment: because they said 
that he had an unclean spirit. And he said also, Every one that speaketh a word 
against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him; but whosoever speaketh against 
the Holy Spirit, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, nor in the 
world to come. Either ye must make a good tree and its fruit good; or ye must 
make an evil tree and its fruit evil: for the tree is known by its fruit. Ye 
children of vipers, how can ye, being evil, speak good things? from the 
overflowings of the heart the mouth speaketh. The good man from the good 
treasures which are in his heart bringeth forth good things; and the wicked man 
from the evil treasures which are in his heart bringeth forth evils. I say unto 
you, that every idle word which men shall speak, they shall give an answer for 
in the day of judgement: for by thy sayings thou shalt be justified, and by thy 
sayings thou shalt be judged. 
37 And he said to the multitudes, When ye see the clouds appear from the 
west, straightway ye say that there cometh rain; and so it cometh to pass. And 
when the south wind bloweth, ye say that there will be heat; and it cometh to 
pass. And when the evening is come, ye say, It will be fair weather, for the 
heaven has become red. And in the morning ye say, To-day there will be severe 
weather, for the redness Arabic. Of the heaven is paling. Ye hypocrites, ye know 
to examine the face of the P. heaven and the earth; but the signs of this time 
ye know not to discern. Then they brought to him one possessed of a demon, dumb 
and blind; and he healed him, so that the dumb and blind began to speak and see. 
And all the multitudes wondered, and said, Is this, think you, the son of David? 

43 And the apostles returned unto Jesus, and told him everything that they 
had done and wrought. And he said unto them, Come, let us go into the desert 
alone, and rest yea little. And many were going and returning, and they had not 
leisure, not even to eat bread. 
45 And after that, there came to him one of the Pharisees, and besought him 
that he would eat bread with him. And he entered into the house of that 
Pharisee, and reclined. And there was in that city a woman that was a sinner; 
and when she knew that he was sitting in the house of that Pharisee, she took a 
box of sweet oint- 47 ment, and stood behind him, towards his feet, weeping, and 
began to wet his feet with her tears, and to wipe them with the hair of her 
head, and to kiss his feet, and anoint them with the sweet ointment. And when 
that s Pharisee saw it, who invited him, he thought within himself, and said, 
This man, if he were a prophet, would know who she is and what is her history: 
for the woman which touched him was a sinner. 
SECTION XV. 
15 1 Jesus answered and said unto him, Simon, I have something to say unto 
thee. And 2 he said unto him, Say on, my Master. Jesus said unto him, There were 
two debtors Arabic, to one creditor; and one of them owed five hundred pence, 
and the other 3 owed fifty pence. And because they had not wherewith to pay, he 
forgave 4 them both. Which of them ought to love him more? Simon answered and 
said, I suppose, he to whom he forgave most. Jesus said unto him, Thou hast 
judged rightly. 5 And he turned to that woman, and said to Simon, Dost thou see 
this woman? I entered into thy dwelling, and thou gavest me not water to wash my 
feet: but this 6 woman hath bathed my feet with her tears, and dried them with 
her hair. And thou kissedst me not: but this woman, since she entered, hath not 
ceased to kiss my 7 feet. And thou anointedst not my head with oil: but this 
woman hath anointed 8 my feet with sweet ointment. And for this, I say unto 
thee, Her many sins are forgiven her, because she loved much; for he to whom 
little is forgiven loveth little. And he said unto that woman, Thy sins are 
forgiven thee. And those that were in- vited began to say within themselves, Who 
is this that forgiveth sins also? And Jesus said to that woman, Thy faith hath 
saved thee; go in peace. And many believed in him when they saw the signs which 
he was doing. But Jesus did not trust himself to them, for he knew every man, 
and he needed not any man to testify to him concerning every man; for he knew 
what was in man. 
15 And after that, Jesus set apart from his disciples other seventy, and sent 
them two and two before his face to every region and city whither he was 
purposing to go. And he said unto them, The harvest is abundant, and the 
labourers are few: entreat now the Lord of the harvest, that he send forth 
labourers into his harvest. Go Arabic, ye: and lo, I am sending you as lambs 
among wolves. Take not with you purses, nor a wallet, nor shoes; neither salute 
any man in the way. And whatsoever house ye enter, first salute that house: and 
if there be there a son of peace, let your peace rest upon him; but if there be 
not, your peace shall return to you. And be ye in that house eating and drinking 
what they have: for the labourer is worthy of his hire. And remove not from 
house to house. And into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you, eat 
what is presented to you: and heal the sick that are therein, and say unto them, 
The kingdom of God is come near unto you. But whatsoever city ye enter, and they 
receive you not, go out into the market, and say, Even the dust that clave to 
our feet from your city, we shake off against you; but know this, that the 
kingdom of God is come near unto you. I say unto you, that for Sodom there shall 
be quiet in the day of judgement, but there shall not be for that city. Then 
began Jesus to rebuke the cities in which there had been many mighty works, and 
they repented not. And he said, Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, 
Bethsaida! if there had been in Tyre and Sidon the signs which were in thee, it 
may be that they would have repented in sackcloth and ashes. Howbeit I say unto 
you, that for Tyre and Sidon there shall be rest in the day of judgement, more 
than for you. And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, shalt sink 
down unto Hades; for if there had been in Sodom the wonders which were in thee, 
it would have remained until this day. And now I say unto thee, that for the 
land of Sodom there shall be quiet in the day of judgement, more than for thee. 
32 Arabic. And he said again unto his apostles, Whosoever heareth you heareth 
me; and whosoever heareth me heareth him that sent me: and whosoever wrongeth 
you wrongeth me; and whosoever wrongeth me wrongeth him that sent me. 
33 And those seventy returned with great joy, and said unto him, Our Lord, 
even the devils also are subject unto us in thy name. He said unto them, I 
beheld Satan fallen like lightning from heaven. Behold, I am giving you 
authority to tread upon serpents and scorpions, and the whole race of the enemy; 
and nothing shall hurt you. Only ye must not rejoice that the devils are subject 
unto you; but be glad that your names are written in heaven. 
37 And in that hour Jesus rejoiced in the Holy Spirit, and said, I 
acknowledge thee, my Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou didst hide 
these things from the wise and understanding, and didst reveal them unto 
children: yea, my Father; so was thy will. And he turned to his disciples, and 
said unto them, Everything hath been delivered to me of my Father: and no man 
knoweth who the Son is, save the Father; and who the Father is, save the Son, 
and to whomsoever the Son willeth to reveal him. Come unto me, all of you, ye 
that are wearied and bearers of bur- dens, and I will give you rest. Bear my 
yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am gentle and lowly in my heart: and ye 
shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is pleasant, and my burden is 
light. 
42 And while great multitudes were going with him, he turned, and said unto 
them, Whosoever cometh unto me, and hateth not his father, and his mother, and 
his brethren, and his sisters, and his wife, and his children, and himself also, 
cannot Arabic, be a disciple to me. And whosoever doth not take his cross, and 
follow p. me, cannot be a disciple to me. Which of you desireth to build a 
tower, and doth not sit down first and reckon his expenses and whether he hath 
enough to complete it? lest when he hath laid the foundations, and is not able 
to finish, all that behold him laugh at him, and say, This man began to build, 
and was not able to 48 finish. Or what king goeth to the battle to fight with 
another king, and doth not consider first whether he is able with ten thousand 
to meet him that cometh to him with twenty thousand? And if he is not able, he 
sendeth unto him while he is afar off, and seeketh peace. So shall every man of 
you consider, that desireth to be a disciple to me; for if he renounceth not all 
that he hath, he cannot be a disciple to me. 
SECTION XVI. 
16 1 Then answered certain of the scribes and Pharisees, that they might 
tempt him, 2 and said, Teacher, we desire to see a sign from thee. He answered 
and said, This evil and adulterous generation seeketh a sign; and it shall not 
be given a sign, 3 except the sign of Jonah the prophet. And as Jonah was a sign 
to the inhabitants 4 of Nineveh, so shall the Son of man also be to this 
generation. And as Jonah was in the belly of the great fish three days and three 
nights, so shall the Son of man 5 be in the heart of the earth three days and 
three nights. The queen of the south shall rise in the judgement with the people 
of this generation, and condemn them: for she came from the ends of the earth 
that she might hear the wisdom of Solomon; 6 Arabic, and behold, here is a 
better than Solomon. The men of Nineveh shall stand in the judgement with this 
generation, and condemn it: for they repented at 7 the preaching of Jonah; and 
behold, here is a greater than Jonah. The unclean spirit, when he goeth out of 
the man, departeth, and goeth about through places wherein are no waters, that 
he may find rest for himself; and when he findeth it not, he 8 saith, I will 
return to my house whence I came out. And if he come and find it 9 adorned and 
set in order, then he goeth, and associateth with himself seven other spirits 
worse than himself; and they enter and dwell in it: and the end of that man 
shall be worse than his beginning. Thus shall it be unto this evil generation. 
11 And while he was saying that, a woman from the multitude lifted up her 
voice, and said unto him, Blessed is the womb that bare thee, and the breasts 
that nursed thee. But he said unto her, Blessed is he that heareth the word of 
God, and keepeth it. 
13 And while he was speaking unto the multitude, there came unto him his 
mother and his brethren, and sought to speak with him; and they were not able, 
because of the multitude; and they stood without and sent, calling him unto 
them. A man said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren are standing 
without, and seek to speak with thee. But he answered unto him that spake unto 
him, Who is my mother? and who are my brethren? And he beckoned with his hand, 
stretching it out towards his disciples, and said, Behold, my mother! and 
behold, my brethren! And every man that shall do the will of my Father which is 
in heaven is my brother, and my sister, and my mother. 
19 And after that, Jesus was going about in the cities and in the villages, 
and pro- Arabic, claiming and preaching the kingdom of God, and his; twelve with 
him, and the women which had been healed of diseases and of evil spirits, Mary 
that was called Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven devils, and Joanna 
the wife of Chuza Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others, who were 
ministering to them of their substance. 
22 And after that, Jesus went out of the house, and sat on the sea shore. And 
there gathered unto him great multitudes. And when the press of the people was 
great upon him, he went up and sat in the boat; and all the multitude was 
standing on the shore of the sea. And he spake to them much in parables, and 
said, The sower went forth to sow: and when he sowed, some fell on the beaten 
highway; and it was trodden upon, and the birds ate it. 
And other fell on the rocks: and some, where there was not much earth; and 
straightway it sprang up, because it had no depth in the earth: and when the sun 
rose, it withered; and because it had no root, it dried up. And some fell among 
thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it; and it yielded no 
fruit. And other fell into excellent and good ground; and it came up, and grew, 
and brought forth fruit, some thirty, and some sixty, and some a hundred. And 
when he said that, he cried, He that hath ears that hear, let him hear. And when 
they were alone, his disciples came, and asked him, and said unto him, What is 
this parable? and why spakest thou unto them in parables? He Arabic, answered 
and said unto them, Unto you is given the knowledge of the secrets of the 
kingdom of God; but it is not given unto them that are without. He that hath 
shall be given unto, and there shall be added; and he that hath not, that which 
he hath shah be taken from him also. For this cause therefore I speak unto them 
in parables; because they see, and see not; and hear, and hear not, nor 
understand. And in them is being fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah, who said, 
Hearing they shall hear, and shall not understand; And seeing they shall see, 
and shall not perceive: 
36 The heart of this people is waxed gross, And their hearing with their ears 
is become heavy, And they have closed their eyes; Lest they should see with 
their eyes, And hear with their ears, And understand with their hearts, And 
should return, And I should heal them. 
37, But ye, blessed are your eyes, which see; and your ears, which hear. 
Blessed are the eyes which see what ye see. Verily I say unto you, Many of the 
prophets and the righteous longed to see what ye see, and saw not; and to hear 
what ye hear, and heard not. When ye know not this parable, how shall ye know 
all para- 41, 42 bles? Hear ye the parable of the sower. The sower which sowed, 
sowed the word of God. Every one who heareth the word of the kingdom, and 
understandeth it not, the evil one cometh and snatcheth away the word that hath 
been sown in his heart: and this is that which was sown on the middle of the 
highway. But that which was sown on the rocks is he that heareth the word, and 
straightway receiveth 45, Arabic, it with joy; only, it hath no root in his 
soul, but his belief in it is for a time; and whenever there is distress or 
persecution because of a word, he stumbleth quickly. And that which was sown 
among the thorns is he that heareth the word; and the care of this world, and 
the error of riches, and the rest of the other lusts enter, and choke the word, 
and it becometh without fruit. And that which was sown in good ground is he that 
heareth my word in a pure and good heart, and understandeth it, and holdeth to 
it, and bringeth forth fruit with patience, and produceth either a hundredfold 
or sixtyfold or thirty. 
49 And he said, So is the kingdom of God, like a man who casteth seed into 
the earth, and sleepeth and riseth by night and day, and the seed groweth and 
cometh up, whence he knoweth not. And the earth bringeth it to the fruit; and 
first it will be blade, and after it ear, and at last perfect wheat in the ear: 
and whenever the fruit ripeneth, he bringeth immediately the sickle, for the 
harvest hath come. 
SECTION XVII. 
17 1 And he set forth to them another parable, and said, The kingdom of 
heaven is like a man who sowed good seed in his field; but when men slept, his 
enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went away. And when the blade 
sprang up and brought forth fruit, there were noticed the tares also. And the 
servants of the master of the house came, and said unto him, Our lord, didst 
thou not sow good seed in thy field? whence are there tares in it? He said unto 
them, An enemy hath done this. His servants said unto him, Wilt thou that we go 
6 and separate it? He said unto them, Perhaps, when ye separate the tares, ye 
would 7 root up with them wheat also. Leave them to grow both together until the 
harvest: and in the time of the harvest I will say unto the reapers, Separate 
the tares first, and bind them in bundles to be burned with fire; and gather the 
wheat into my barns. 
8, 9 And he set forth to them another parable, and said, To what is the 
kingdom of God like? and to what shall I liken it? and in what parable shall I 
set it forth? It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and planted 
in his field: and of the number of the things that are sown in the earth it is 
smaller than all of the things which are sown, which are upon the earth; but 
when it is grown, it is greater than all the herbs, and produceth large 
branches, so that the birds of heaven make their nests in its branches. 
13, And he set forth to them another parable: To what shall I liken the 
kingdom of God? It is like the leaven which a woman took, and kneaded into three 
measures of flour, until the whole of it was leavened. 
16 And Jesus spake all that to the multitudes by way of parables, according 
as they were able to hear. And without parables spake he not unto them; that the 
saying of the Lord through the prophet might be fulfilled: 
I will open my mouth in parables; And I will utter secrets which were before 
the foundations of the world. 
18 But he explained to his disciples privately everything. 
19 Then Jesus left the multitudes, and came to the house. And his disciples 
came Arabic. unto him, and said unto him, Explain unto us that parable about the 
tares and the field. He answered and said unto them, He that sowed good seed is 
the Son of man; and the field is the world; and the good seed are the children 
of the kingdom; and the tares are the children of the evil one; and the enemy 
that sowed them is Satan; and the harvest is the end of the world; and the 
reapers are the angels. And as the tares are separated and burned in the fire, 
so shall it be in the end of this world. The Son of man shall send his angels, 
and separate from his kingdom all things that injure, and all the doers of 
iniquity, and they shall cast them into the furnace of fire: and there shall be 
weeping and gnashing of teeth. Then the righteous shall shine as the sun in the 
kingdom of their Father. Whosoever hath ears that hear, let him hear. 
27 And again the kingdom of heaven is like treasure hid in a field: that 
which a man found and hid; and, for his pleasure in it, went and sold all that 
he had, and bought that field. 
28 And again the kingdom of heaven is like a man that is a merchant seeking 
ex- cellent pearls; and when he found one pearl of great price, he went and sold 
everything that he had, and bought it. 
30 And again the kingdom of heaven is like a net that was cast into the sea, 
and gathered of every kind: and when it was filled, they drew it up on to the 
shore of the sea, and sat down to select; and the good of them they threw into 
the vessels, and the bad they threw outside. Thus shall it be in the end of the 
world: the angels shall go forth, and separate the wicked from among the good, 
and shall cast them into the furnace of fire: there shall be weeping and 
gnashing of teeth. 
34 Jesus said unto them, Have ye understood all these things? They said unto 
Arabic, him, Yea, our Lord. He said unto them, Therefore every scribe that be- 
cometh a disciple of the kingdom of heaven is like a man that is a householder, 
who bringeth out of his treasures the new and the old. 
36, And when Jesus had finished all these parables, he removed thence, and 
came to his city; and he taught them in their synagogues, so that they were 
perplexed. And when the sabbath came, Jesus began to teach in the synagogue; and 
many of those that heard marvelled, and said, Whence came these things to this 
man? And many envied him and gave no heed to him, but said, What is this wisdom 
that is given to this man, that there should happen at his hands such as these 
mighty works? Is not this a carpenter, son of a carpenter? and is not his mother 
called Mary? and his brethren, James, and Joses, and Simon, and Judas? And his 
sisters, all of them, lo, are they not all with us? Whence hath this man all 
these things? And they were in doubt concerning him. And Jesus knew their 
opinion, and said unto them, Will ye haply" say unto me this proverb, Physician, 
heal first thyself: and all that we have heard that thou didst in Capernaum, do 
here also in thine own city? And he said, Verily I say unto you, A prophet is 
not received in his own city, nor among his brethren: for a prophet is not 
despised, save in his own city, and among his own kin, and in his own house. 
Verily I say unto you, In the days of Elijah the prophet, there were many widows 
among the children of Israel, when the heaven held back three years and six 
months, and there was a great famine in all the land; and Elijah Arabic, was not 
sent to one of them, save to Zarephath of Sidon, to a woman that was a widow. 
And many lepers were among the children of Israel in the days of Elisha the 
prophet; but not one of them was cleansed, save Naaman the Nabathaean. And he 
was not able to do there many mighty works, because of their unbelief; except 
that he laid his hand upon a few of the sick, and healed them. And he mar- 
velled at their lack of faith. And when those who were in the synagogue heard, 
51 they were all filled with wrath; and they rose up, and brought him forth 
outside the city, and brought him to the brow of the hill upon which their city 
was built, that they might cast him from its summit: but he passed through among 
them and went away. 
53 And he went about in the villages which were around Nazareth, and taught 
in their synagogues. 
SECTION XVIII. 
18 1 At that time Herod the tetrarch heard of the fame of Jesus, and all the 
things which came to pass at his hand; and he marvelled, for he had obtained 
excellent 2 information concerning him. And same men said that John the Baptist 
was risen 3 from among the dead; and others said that Elijah had appeared; and 
others, Jere- 4 miah; and others, that a prophet of the old prophets was risen; 
and others said that he 5 was a prophet like one of the prophets. Herod said to 
his servants, This is John the Baptist, he whom I beheaded; he is risen from 
among the dead: therefore mighty 6 Arabic. works result from him. For Herod 
himself had sent and taken John, and cast him into prison, for the sake of 
Herodias his brother Philip's wife, whom he 7 had taken. And John said to Herod, 
Thou hast no authority to take the wife of thy 8 brother. And Herodias avoided 
him and wished to kill him; and she could not. 
9 But Herod feared John, for he knew that he was a righteous man and a holy; 
and he guarded him, and heard him much, and did, and obeyed him with gladness. 
And he wished to kill him; but he feared the people, for they adhered to him as 
the prophet. And there was a celebrated day, and Herod had made a feast for his 
great men on the day of his anniversary, and for the officers and for the chief 
men of Galilee. And the daughter of Herodias came in and danced in the midst of 
the company, and pleased Herod and those that sat with him. And the king said to 
the damsel, Ask of me what thou wilt, and I will give it thee. And he sware unto 
her, Whatsoever thou shalt ask, I will give it thee, to the half of my kingdom. 
And she went out, and said unto her mother, What shall I ask him? She said unto 
her, The head of John the Baptist. And immediately she came in hastily to the 
king, and said unto him, I desire in this hour that thou give me on a dish the 
head of John the Baptist. And the king was exceeding sorry; but because of the 
oath and the guests he did not wish to refuse her. But immediately the king sent 
an executioner, and commanded that he should bring the head of John: and he went 
and cut off the head of John in the prison, and brought it on a dish, and 
delivered it to the damsel; and the damsel gave it to her mother. And his 
disciples heard, and came Arabic, and took his body, and buffed it. And they 
came and told Jesus what had happened. And for this cause Herod said, I beheaded 
John: who is this, of whom I hear these things. And he desired to see him. And 
Jesus, when he heard, removed thence in a boat to a waste place alone, to the 
other side of the sea of the Galilee of Tiberias. 
22 And many saw them going, and knew them, and hastened by land from all the 
cities, and came thither beforehand; for they saw the signs which he was doing 
on the 23, sick. And Jesus went up into the mountain, and sat there with his 
disciples. And the feast of the passover of the Jews was near. And Jesus lifted 
up his eyes, and saw great multitudes coming to him. And he was moved with 
compassion for them, for they were like sheep that were without a shepherd. And 
he received them, and spake to them concerning the kingdom of God, and healed 
those who had need of healing. And when the evening approached, his disciples 
came to him, and said unto him, The place is desert, and the time is past; send 
away the multitudes of the people, that they may go to the towns and villages 
which are around us, and buy for themselves bread; for they have nothing to eat. 
But he said unto them, They have no need to go away; give ye them what may be 
eaten. They said unto him, We have not here enough. He said unto Philip, Whence 
shall we buy bread that these may eat? 31, And he said that proving him; and he 
knew what he was resolved to do. Philip said Arabic. unto him, Two hundred 
pennyworth of bread would not suffice them after p. 72 every one of them hath 
taken a small amount. One of his disciples said unto him (namely, Andrew the 
brother of Simon Cephas), Here is a lad having five loaves of barley and two 
fishes: but this amount, what is it for all these? But wilt thou that we go and 
buy for all the people what may be eaten? for we have no more than these five 
loaves and the two fishes. And the grass was plentiful in that place. Jesus said 
unto them, Arrange all the people that they may sit down on the grass, fifty 
people in a company. And the disciples did so. And all the people sat down by 
companies, by hundreds and fifties. Then Jesus said unto them, Bring hither 
those five loaves and the two fishes. And when they brought him that, Jesus took 
the bread and the fish, and looked to heaven, and blessed, and divided, and gave 
to his disciples to set before them; and the disciples set for the multitudes 
the bread and the fish; and they ate, all of them, and were satisfied. And when 
they were satisfied, he said unto his disciples, Gather the fragments that 
remain over, that noth- ing be lost. And they gathered, and filled twelve 
baskets with fragments, being those that remained over from those which ate of 
the five barley loaves and the two fishes. And those people who ate were five 
thousand, besides the women and children. Arabic, And straightway he pressed his 
disciples to go up into the ship, and that they should go before him unto the 
other side to Bethsaida, while he himself should send away the multitudes. And 
those people who saw the sign which Jesus did, said, Of a truth this is a 
prophet who hath come into the world. And Jesus knew their purpose to come and 
take him, and make him a king; and he left them, and went up into the mountain 
alone for prayer. 
47, And when the nightfall was near, his disciples went down unto the sea, 
and sat in a boat, and came to the side of Capernaum. And the darkness came on, 
and Jesus had not come to them. And the sea was stirred up against them by 
reason of a violent wind that blew. And the boat was distant from the land many 
furlongs, and they were much damaged by the waves, and the wind was against 
them. 
SECTION XIX. 
19 1 And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus came unto them, walking upon 
the 2 water, after they had rowed with difficulty about twenty-five or thirty 
furlongs. 
19 And when he drew near unto their boat, his disciples saw him walking on 
the water; and they were troubled, and supposed that it was a false appearance; 
and they cried out from their fear. But Jesus straightway spoke unto them, and 
said, Take courage, for it is I; fear not. Then Cephas answered and said unto 
him, My Lord, if it be thou, bid me to come unto thee on the water. And Jesus 
said unto him, Come. And Cephas went down out of the boat, and walked on the 
water to come unto Jesus. But Arabic, when he saw the wind strong, he feared, 
and was on the point of sink- ing; and he lifted up his voice, and said, My 
Lord, save me. And immediately our Lord stretched out his hand and took hold of 
him, and said unto him, 9 Thou of little faith, why didst thou doubt? And when 
Jesus came near, he went up unto them into the boat, he and Simon, and 
immediately the wind ceased. And those that were in the ship came and worshipped 
him, and said, Truly thou art the Son of God. And straightway that ship arrived 
at the land which they made for. And when they came out of the ship to the land, 
they marvelled greatly and were perplexed in themselves: and they had not 
understood by means of that bread, because their heart was gross. 
14 And when the people of that region knew of the arrival of Jesus, they made 
haste in all that land, and began to bring those that were diseased, borne in 
their beds to the place where they heard that he was. And wheresoever the place 
might be which he entered, of the villages or the cities, they laid the sick in 
the markets, and sought of him that they might touch were it only the edge of 
his garment: and all that touched him were healed and lived. 
16 And on the day after that, the multitude which was standing on the shore 
of the sea saw that there was there no other ship save that into which the 
disciples had gone up, and that Jesus went not up into the ship with his 
disciples (but there were other ships from Tiberias near the place where they 
ate the bread when Jesus blessed it): and when that multitude saw that Jesus was 
not there, nor yet his disciples, they Arabic, went up into those ships, and 
came to Capernaum, and sought Jesus. And when they found him on the other side 
of the sea, they said unto him, Our Master, when camest thou hither? Jesus 
answered and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Ye have not sought 
me because of your seeing the signs, but because of your eating the bread and 
being satisfied. Serve not the food which perisheth, but the food which abideth 
in eternal life, which the Son of man will give unto you: him hath God the 
Father sealed. They said unto him, What shall we do that we may work the work of 
God? Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye believe 
in him whom he hath sent. They said unto him, What sign hast thou done, that we 
may see, and believe in thee? what hast thou wrought? Our fathers ate the manna 
in the wilderness; as it was written, Bread from heaven gave he them to eat. 
Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Moses gave you not bread 
from heaven; but my Father gave you the bread of truth n from heaven. The bread 
of God is that which came down from heaven and gave the 28, world life. They 
said unto him, Our Lord, give us at all times this bread. Jesus said unto them, 
I am the bread of life: whosoever cometh unto me shall not hun- ger, and 
whosoever believeth in me shall not thirst for ever. But I said unto you, Ye 
have seen me, and have not believed. And all that my Father hath given to me 
cometh unto me; and whosoever cometh unto me I shall not cast him forth with- 
out. I came down from heaven, not to do my own will, but to do the will of him 
that sent me; and this is the will of him that sent me, that I should lose 
nothing of Arabic, that which he gave me, but raise it up in the last day. This 
is the will of my Father, that every one that seeth the Son, and believeth in 
him, should have eternal life; and I will raise him up in the last day. 
35 The Jews therefore murmured against him because of his saying, I am the 
bread which came down from heaven. And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of 
Joseph, whose father and mother we know? then how saith this man, I came down 
from 37, heaven? Jesus answered and said unto them, Murmur not one with another. 
No man is able to come unto me, except the Father which sent me draw him; and I 
will raise him up in the last day. It is written in the prophet, They shall all 
be the taught of God. Every one who heareth from the Father now, and learneth of 
him, cometh unto me. No man now seeth the Father; but he that is from God, he it 
is that seeth the Father. Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whosoever believeth in 
me hath eternal 42, life. I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in 
the wilderness, and they died. This is the bread which came down from heaven, 
that a man may eat of it, and not die. I am the bread of life which came down 
from heaven: and if a man eat of this bread he shall live for ever: and the 
bread which I shall give is my body, which I give for the life of the world. 
46 The Jews therefore quarrelled one with another, and said, How can he give 
us Arabic, his body that we may eat it? Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I 
say unto you, If ye do not eat the body of the Son of man and drink his blood, 
ye shall not have life in yourselves. Whosoever eateth of my body and drinketh 
of my blood hath eternal life; and I will raise him up in the last day. My body 
truly is meat, and my blood truly is drink. Whosoever eateth my body and 
drinketh my blood abideth in me, and I in him--as the living Father sent me, and 
I am alive because of the Father; and whosoever eateth me, he also shall live 
because of me. This is the bread which came down from heaven: and not according 
as your fathers ate the manna, and died: whosoever eateth of this bread shall 
live for ever. This he said in the synagogue, when he was teaching in Capernaum. 
And many of his disciples, when they heard, said, This word is hard; who is he 
that can hear it? 
SECTION XX. 
20 1 And Jesus knew within himself that his disciples were murmuring because 
of a that, and he said unto them, Doth this trouble you? What if ye should see 
the Son 3 of man then ascend to the place where he was of old? It is the spirit 
that quickeneth, and the body profiteth nothing: the words that I speak unto you 
are spirit 4 and life. But there are some of you that do not believe. And Jesus 
knew beforehand who they were who should not believe, and who it was that should 
betray 5 him. And he said unto them, Therefore I said unto you, No man can come 
unto me, if that hath not been given him by the Father. 
6 Arabic, And because of this word many of his disciples turned back and 
walked 7 not with him. And Jesus said unto the twelve, Do ye haply also wish to 
8 go away? Simon Cephas answered and said, My Lord, to whom shall we go? thou 9 
hast the words of eternal life. And we have believed and known that thou art the 
Messiah, the Son of the living God. Jesus said unto them, Did not I choose you, 
ye company of the twelve, and of you one is a devil? He said that because of 
Judas the son of Simon Iscariot; for he, being of the twelve, was purposed to 
betray him. 
12 And while he was speaking, one of the Pharisees came asking of him that he 
would eat with him: and he went in, and reclined to meat. And that Pharisee, 
when he saw it, marvelled that he had not first cleansed himself before his 
eating. Jesus said unto him, Now do ye Pharisees wash the outside of the cup and 
the dish, and ye think that ye are cleansed; but your inside is full of 
injustice and wickedness. 
15, Ye of little mind, did not he that made the outside make the inside? Now 
give what ye have in alms, and everything shall be clean unto you. 
17, And there came to him Pharisees and scribes, come from Jerusalem. And 
when they saw some of his disciples eating bread while they had not washed their 
hands, they found fault. For all of the Jews and the Pharisees, if they wash not 
their hands thoroughly, eat not; for they held to the ordinance of the elders. 
And they ate not what was bought from the market, except they washed it; and 
many other things did they keep of what they had received, such as the washing 
of cups, and measures, and vessels of brass, and couches. And scribes and 
Pharisees asked him, Why do thy disciples not walk according to the ordinances 
of the elders, but eat bread without washing their hands? Jesus answered and 
said unto them, Why do ye also overstep the command of God by reason of your 
ordinance? God said, Honour thy father and thy mother; and, Whosoever revileth 
his father and his mother shall surely die. But ye say, If a man say to his 
father or to his mother, What thou receivest from me is an offering,--and ye 
suffer him not to do any- thing for his father or his mother; and ye make void 
and reject the word of God by reason of the ordinance that ye have ordained and 
commanded, such as the wash- ing of cups and measures, and what resembles that 
ye do much. And ye forsook the command of God, and held to the ordinance of men. 
Do ye well to wrong the command of God in order that ye may establish your 
ordinance? Ye hypocrites, well did Isaiah the prophet prophesy concerning you, 
and say, This people honoureth me with its lips; But their heart is very far 
from me. 
31 But in vain do they fear me, In that they teach the commands of men. 
32 And Jesus called all the multitude, and said unto them. Hear me, all of 
you, and understand: nothing without the man, which then enters him, is able to 
defile him; but what goeth out of him, that it is which defileth the man. He 
that hath ears that hear, let him hear. Then his disciples drew near, and said 
unto him, Knowest thou that the Pharisees which heard this word were angry? He 
answered and said unto them, Every plant which my Father which is in heaven 
planted not shall be Arabic, uprooted. Let them alone; for they are blind 
leading blind. And if the blind lead the blind, both of them shall fall into a 
hollow. 
38 And when Jesus entered the house from the multitude, Simon Cephas asked 
him, and said unto him, My Lord, explain to us that parable. He said unto them, 
Do ye also thus not understand? Know ye not that everything that entereth into 
the man from without cannot defile him; because it entereth not into his heart; 
it entereth into his stomach only, and thence is cast forth in the cleansing 
which maketh clean all the food? The thing which goeth forth from the mouth of 
the man pro- ceedeth from his heart, and it is that which defileth the man. From 
within the heart of men proceed evil thoughts, fornication, adultery, theft, 
false witness, murder, injustice, wickedness, deceit, stupidity, evil eye, 
calumny, pride, foolishness: these evils all of them from within proceed from 
the heart, and they are the things which defile the man: but if a man eat while 
he washeth not his hands, he is not defiled. 
46 And Jesus went out thence, and came to the borders of Tyre and Sidon. And 
he entered into a certain house, and desired that no man should know it; and he 
could not be hid. But straightway a Canaanitish woman, whose daughter had an 48, 
unclean spirit, heard of him. And that woman was a Gentile of Emesa of Syria. 
And she came out after him, crying out, and saying, Have mercy upon me, my Lord, 
thou son of David; for my daughter is seized in an evil way by Satan. And he 
answered Arabic. her not a word. And his disciples came and besought him, and 
said, Send her away: for she crieth after us. He answered and said unto them, I 
was not sent except to the sheep that are gone astray of the house of Israel. 
But she came and worshipped him, and said, My Lord, help me, have mercy upon me. 

53 Jesus said unto her, It is not seemly that the children's bread should be 
taken and thrown to the dogs. But she said, Yea, my Lord: the dogs also eat of 
the crumbs that fall from their masters' tables, and live. Then said Jesus unto 
her, O woman, great is thy faith: it shall be unto thee as thou hast desired. Go 
then thy way; and because of this word, the devil is gone out of thy daughter. 
And her daughter was healed in that hour. And that woman went away to her house, 
and found her daughter laid upon the bed, and the devil gone out of her. 
SECTION XXI. 
21 1 And Jesus went out again from the borders of Tyre and Sidon, and came to 
the 2 sea of Galilee, towards the borders of Decapolis. And they brought unto 
him one dumb and deaf, and entreated him that he would lay his hand upon him and 
heal 3 him. And he drew him away from the multitude, and went away alone, and 
spat 4 upon his fingers, and thrust them into his ears, and touched his tongue; 
and looked 5 to heaven, and sighed, and said unto him, Be opened. And in that 
hour his ears 6 were opened, and the bond of his tongue was loosed, and he spake 
with ease. And Jesus charged them much that they should not tell this to any 
man: but the more 7 he charged them, the mare they increased in publishing, and 
marvelled much, and Arabic. said, This man doeth everything well: he made the 
deaf to hear, and those that lacked speech to speak. 
8, 9 And while he was passing through the land of Samaria, he came to one of 
the cities of the Samaritans, called Sychar, beside the field which Jacob gave 
to Joseph to his son. And there was there a spring of water of Jacob's. And 
Jesus was fatigued from the exertion of the way, and sat at the spring. And the 
time was about the sixth hour. And a woman of Samaria came to draw water; and 
Jesus said unto her, Give me water, that I may drink. And Iris disciples had 
entered into the city to buy for themselves food. And that Samaritan woman said 
unto him, How dost thou, being a Jew, ask me to give thee to drink, while I am a 
Samaritan woman? (And the Jews mingle not with the Samaritans. Jesus answered 
and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who this is that said 
unto thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest ask him, and he would give thee the 
water of life. That woman said unto him, My Lord, thou hast no bucket, and the 
well is deep: from whence hast thou the water of life? Can it be that thou art 
greater than our father Jacob, who gave us this well, and drank from it, and his 
children, and his sheep? Jesus answered and said unto her, Every one that 
drinketh of this water shall thirst again: but whosoever drinketh of the water 
which I shall give him shall not thirst for ever: but the water which I shall 
give him shall be in him a spring of water springing up unto eternal life. That 
woman said unto him, My Lord, give me of this water, that I may not thirst 
again, neither come and draw water from here. Jesus said unto her, Arabic. Go 
and call thy husband, and come hither. She said unto him, I have no 22 husband. 
Jesus said unto her, Thou saidst well, I have no husband: five husbands hast 
thou had, and this man whom thou hast now is not thy husband; and in this thou 
saidst truly. That woman said unto him, My Lord, I perceive thee to be a 
prophet. Our fathers worshipped in this mountain; and ye say that in Jeru- salem 
is the place in which worship must be. Jesus said unto her, Woman, believe me, 
an hour cometh, when neither in this mountain, nor yet in Jerusalem, shall ye 
wor- ship the Father. Ye worship that which ye know not: but we worship that 
which we know: for salvation is of the Jews. But an hour cometh, and now is, 
when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and truth: and the 
Father also seeketh such as these worshippers. For God is a Spirit: and they 
that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. That woman said unto 
him, I know that the Messiah cometh: and when he is come, he will teach us 
everything. Jesus said unto her, I that speak unto thee am he. 
31 And while he was speaking, his disciples came; and they wondered how he 
would speak with a woman; but not one of them said unto him, What seekest thou? 
or, What speakest thou with her? And the woman left her waterpot, and went to 
the city, and said to the people, Come, and see a man who told me all that ever 
I did: 34 perhaps then he is the Messiah. And people went out from the city, and 
came to him. And in the mean while his disciples besought him, and said unto 
him, Our 36, master, eat. And he said unto them, I have food to eat that ye know 
not. And the disciples said amongst themselves, Can any one have brought him 
aught to eat? 
Jesus said unto them, My food is to do the will of him that sent me, and to 
accomplish his work. Said ye not that after four months cometh the harvest? 
behold, I therefore say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and behold the lands, that 
they have become white, and the harvest is already come. And he that reapeth 
receiveth his wages, and gathereth the fruit of eternal life; and the sower and 
the reaper rejoice together. For in this is found the word of truth, One soweth, 
and another reapeth. And I sent you to reap that in which ye have not laboured: 
others laboured, and ye have entered on their labour. 
43 And from that city many of the Samaritans believed in him because of the 
words of that woman, who testified and said, He told me all that ever I did. And 
when those Samaritans came unto him, they besought him to abide with them; and 
he 45, abode with them two days. And many believed in him because of his word; 
and they said to that woman, Now not because of thy saying have we believed in 
him: we have heard and known that this truly is the Messiah, the Saviour of the 
world. 
47, And after two days Jesus went out thence and departed to Galilee. And 
Jesus testified that a prophet is not honoured in his own city.And when he came 
to Galilee, the Galilaeans received him. 
SECTION XXII. 
22 1 And when Jesus came to a certain village, there drew near to him a 
leper, and fell at his feet, and besought him, and said unto him, If thou wilt, 
thou art able to cleanse me. And Jesus had mercy upon him, and stretched forth 
his hand, and touched him, and said, I will cleanse thee. And immediately his 
leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed. And he sternly charged him, and 
sent him out, Arabic, and said unto him, See that thou tell not any man: but go 
and shew thyself to the priests, and offer an offering for thy cleansing as 
Moses com- 6 manded for their testimony. But he, when he went out, began to 
publish much, and spread abroad the news, so that Jesus could not enter into any 
of the cities openly, for the extent to which the report of him spread, but he 
remained without in a des- 7 ert place. And much people came unto him from one 
place and another, to hear 8 his word, and that they might be healed of their 
pains. And he used to withdraw from them into the desert, and pray. 
9 And after that, was the feast of the Jews; and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
And there was in Jerusalem a place prepared for bathing, which was called in 
Hebrew the House of Mercy, having five porches. And there were laid in them much 
people of the sick, and blind, and lame, and paralysed, waiting for the moving 
of the water. And the angel from time to time went down into the place of 
bathing, and moved the water; and the first that went down after the moving of 
the water, every pain that he had was healed. And a man was there who had a 
disease for thirty-eight years. And Jesus saw this man laid, and knew that he 
had been thus a long time; and he said unto him, Wouldest thou be made whole? 
That diseased one answered and said, Yea, my Lord, I have no man, when the water 
moveth, to put me into the bathing-place; but when I come, another goeth down 
before 16, me. Jesus said unto him, Rise, take thy bed, and walk. And 
immediately that man was healed; and he rose, and carried his bed, and walked. 
18 And that day was a sabbath. And when the Jews saw that healed one, they 
said unto him, It is a sabbath: thou hast no authority to carry thy bed. And he 
answered and said unto them, He that made me whole, the same said unto me, Take 
thy bed, Arabic, and walk. They asked him therefore, Who is this man that said 
unto thee, p. 86 Take thy bed, and walk? But he that was healed knew not who it 
was; for Jesus had removed from that place to another, because of the press of 
the great mul- titude which was in that place. And after two days Jesus happened 
upon him in the temple, and said unto him, Behold, thou art whole: sin not 
again, lest there come upon thee what is worse than the first. And that man 
went, and said to the Jews that it was Jesus that had healed him. And because of 
that the Jews persecuted Jesus and sought to kill him, because he was doing this 
on the sabbath. And Jesus said unto them, My Father worketh until now, and I 
also work. And because of this especially the Jews sought to kill him, not 
because he profaned the sabbath only; but for his saying also that God was his 
Father, and his making himself equal with God. Jesus answered and said unto 
them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, The Son cannot do anything of himself, but 
what be seeth the Father do; what the Father doeth, that the Son also doeth like 
him. The Father loveth his Son, and everything that he doeth he sheweth him: and 
more than these works will he shew him, that ye may marvel. And as the Father 
raiseth the dead and giveth them life, so the Son also giveth life to whomsoever 
he will. And the Father judgeth no man, but hath given all judgement unto the 
Son; that every man may honour the Son, as he honoureth the Father. And he that 
honoureth not the Son honoureth not the Father which sent him. Verily, verily, I 
say unto you, Whosoever heareth my word, and believeth in him that sent me, hath 
eternal. life, and cometh not into judgement, but passeth from Arabic. death 
unto life. Verily, verily, I say unto you, An hour shall come, and now is also, 
when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God; and those which hear shall 
live. And as the Father hath life in himself, likewise he gave to the Son also 
that he might have life in himself, and authority to do judgement also, because 
he is the Son of man. Marvel not then at that: I mean the coming of the hour 
when all that are in the tombs shall hear his voice, and shall come forth: those 
that have done good, to the resurrection of life; and those that have done evil 
deeds, to the resurrection of judgement. 
38 I am not able of myself to do anything; but as I hear, I judge: and my 
judge- ment is just; I seek not my own will, but the will of him that sent me. I 
bear wit- ness of myself, and so a my witness is not true. It is another that 
beareth witness of me; and I know that the witness which he beareth of me is 
true. Ye have sent unto John, and he hath borne witness of the truth. But not 
from man do I seek witness; but I say that ye may live. That was a lamp which 
shineth and giveth light: and ye were pleased to glory now in his light. But I 
have witness greater than that of John: the works which my Father hath given me 
to accomplish, those works which I do, bear witness of me, that the Father hath 
sent me. And the Father which sent me, he hath borne witness of me. Ye have 
neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his appearance. And his word 
abideth not in you; because in him whom he hath sent ye do not believe. Search 
the scriptures, in which ye rejoice that ye have eternal life; and they bear 
witness of me; and ye do not wish to come to 49. Arabic. me, that ye may have 
eternal life. I seek not praise of men. But I know you, that the love of God is 
not in you. I am come in the name of my Father, and ye received me not; but if 
another come in his own name, that one will 52 ye receive. And how can ye 
believe, while ye receive praise one from another, and praise from God, the One, 
ye seek not? Can it be that ye think that I will accuse you before the Father? 
Ye have one that accuseth you, Moses, in whom ye have rejoiced. If ye believed 
Moses, ye would believe me also; Moses wrote of me. And if ye believed not his 
writings, how shall ye believe my words? 
SECTION XXIII. 
23 1 And Jesus departed thence, and came to the side of the sea of Galilee, 
and went up into the mountain, and sat there. And there came unto him great 
multitudes, having with them lame, and blind, and dumb, and maimed, and many 
others, and they cast them at the feet of Jesus: for they had seen all the signs 
which he did in Jerusalem, when they were gathered at the feast. And he healed 
them all. And those multitudes marvelled when they saw dumb men speak, and 
maimed men healed, and lame men walk, and blind men see; and they praised the 
God of Israel. 
5 And Jesus called his disciples, and said unto them, I have compassion on 
this multitude, because of their continuing with me three days, having nothing 
to eat; and to send them away fasting I am not willing, lest they faint in the 
way, some of them having come from far. His disciples said unto him, Whence have 
we in the desert bread wherewith to satisfy all this multitude? Jesus said unto 
them, How 8 many loaves have ye? They said unto him, Seven, and a few small 
fishes. And he 9 commanded the multitudes to sit down upon the ground; and he 
took those seven loaves and the fish, and blessed, and brake, and gave to his 
disciples to set before them; and the disciples set before the multitudes. And 
they all ate, and were satisfied: and they took that which remained over of the 
fragments, seven basketfuls. And the people that ate were four thousand men, 
besides the women and children. And when the multitudes departed, he went up 
into the boat, and came to the borders of Magada. 
13 And the Pharisees and Sadducees came to him, and began to seek a 
discussion with him. And they asked him to shew them a sign from heaven, 
tempting him. And Jesus sighed within himself, and said, What sign seeketh this 
evil and adulterous generation? It seeketh a sign, and it shall not be given a 
sign, except the sign of Jonah the prophet. Verily I say unto you, This 
generation shall not be given a sign. And he left them, and went up into the 
boat, and went away to that side. 
17 And his disciples forgot to take with them bread, and there was not with 
them in the boat, not even one loaf. And Jesus charged them, and said, Take 
heed, and guard yourselves from the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees, and 
from the leaven of Herod. And they reflected within themselves that they had 
taken with them no bread. And Jesus knew, and said unto them, Why think ye 
within yourselves, O ye of little faith, and are anxious, because ye have no 
bread? until now do ye not per- ceive, neither understand? is your heart yet 
hard? And have ye eyes, and yet see not? Arabic, and have ye ears, and yet hear 
not? and do ye not remember when I brake those five loaves for five thousand? 
and how many baskets full of broken pieces took ye up? They said, Twelve. He 
said unto them, And the seven also for four thousand: how many baskets full of 
broken pieces took ye up? They said, Seven. He said unto them, How have ye not 
understood thai I spake not to you because of the bread, but that ye should 
beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees? Then they understood that 
he spake, not that they should beware of the leaven of the bread, but of the 
doctrine of the Pharisees and Sadducees, which he called leaven. 
26 And after that, he came to Bethsaida. And they brought to him a certain 
blind man, and besought him that he would touch him. And he took the hand of 
that blind man, and led him out without the village, and spat in his eyes, and 
laid his hand on him, and asked him, What seest thou? And that blind man looked 
in- tently, and said unto him, I see men as trees walking. And he placed his 
hand again on his eyes; and they were restored, and he saw everything clearly. 
And he sent him to his house, and said, Do not enter even into the village, nor 
tell any man in the village. 
31 And Jesus went forth, and his disciples, to the villages of Caesarea 
Philippi. And while he was going in the way, and his disciples alone, he asked 
his disciples, and said, What do men say of me that I am, the Son of man? They 
said unto him, Some say, John the Baptist; and others, Elijah; and others, 
Jeremiah, or one of the 34, prophets. He said unto them, And ye, what say ye 
that I am? Simon Cephas an- Arabic. swered and said, Thou art the Messiah, the 
Son of the living God. Jesus an- swered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, 
Simon son of Jonah: flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my 
Father which is in heaven. And I say unto thee also, that thou art Cephas, and 
on this rock will I build my church; and the gates of Hades shall not prevail 
against it. To thee will I give the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and 
whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever 
thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. And he sternly charged his 
disciples, and warned them that they should not tell any man concern- ing him, 
that he was the Messiah. And henceforth began Jesus to shew to his dis- ciples 
that he was determined to go to Jerusalem, and suffer much, and be rejected of 
the elders, and of the chief priests, and of the scribes, and be killed, and on 
the third day rise. And he was speaking plainly. And Simon Cephas, as one 
grieved for him, said, Far be thou, my Lord, from that. And he turned, and 
looked upon his disciples, and rebuked Simon, and said, Get thee behind me, 
Satan: for thou art a stumblingblock unto me: for thou thinkest not of what 
pertains to God, but of what pertains to men. 
45 And Jesus called the multitudes with his disciples, and said unto them, 
Whosoever would come after me, let him deny himself, and take his cross every 
day, and come after me. And whosoever would save his life shall lose it; and 
whosoever loseth his life for my sake, and for the sake of my gospel, shall save 
it. What shall a man profit, if he gain all the world, and destroy his own life, 
or lose it? or what Arabic, will a man give in ransom for his life? Whosoever 
shall deny me and my sayings in this sinful and adulterous generation, the Son 
of man also will deny him, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with his 
holy angels. For the Son of man is about to come in the glory of his Father with 
his holy angels; and then shall he reward each man according to his works. 
SECTION XXIV. 
24 1 And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, There be here now some 
standing that shall not taste death, until they see the kingdom of God come with 
strength, and the Son of man who cometh in his kingdom. 
2 And after six days Jesus took Simon Cephas, and James, and John his 
brother, 3 and brought them up into a high mountain, the three of them only. And 
while they 4 were praying, Jesus changed, and became after the fashion of 
another person; and his face shone like the sun, and his raiment was very white 
like the snow, and as 5 the light of lightning, so that nothing on earth can 
whiten like it. And there ap- 6 peared unto him Moses and Elijah talking to 
Jesus. And they thought that the time 7 of his decease which was to be 
accomplished at Jerusalem was come. And Simon and those that were with him were 
heavy in the drowsiness of steep; and with effort they roused themselves, and 
saw his glory, and those two men that were standing with him. 8 Arabic. And when 
they began to depart from him, Simon said unto Jesus, My 9 Master, it is good 
for us to be here: and if thou wilt, we will make here three tabernacles; one 
for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah; not know- ing what he said, 
because of the fear which took possession of them. And while he was yet saying 
that, a bright cloud overshadowed them. And when they saw Moses and Elijah that 
they had entered into that cloud, they feared again. And a voice was heard out 
of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son, whom I have chosen; hear ye 
therefore him. And when this voice was heard, Jesus was found alone. And the 
disciples, when they heard the voice, fell on their faces from the fear which 
took hold of them. And Jesus came and touched them and said, Arise, be not 
afraid. And they lifted up their eyes, and saw Jesus as he was. 
17 And when they went down from the mountain, Jesus charged them, and said 
unto them, Tell not what ye have seen to any man, until the Son of man rise from 
among the dead. And they kept the word within themselves, and told no man in 
those days what they had seen. And they reflected among themselves, What is this 
word which he spake unto us, I, when I am risen from among the dead? And his 
disciples asked him, and said, What is that which the scribes say, then, that 
Elijah must first come? He said unto them, Elijah cometh first to set in order 
everything, Arabic, and as it was written of the Son of man, that he should 
suffer many things, and be rejected. But I say unto you, that Elijah is come, 
and they knew him not, and have done unto him whatsoever they desired, as it was 
written of him. 23, In like manner the Son of man is to suffer of them. Then 
understood the disciples that he spake unto them concerning John the Baptist. 
25 And on that day whereon they came down from the mountain, there met him a 
multitude of many people standing with his disciples, and the scribes were 
discuss- ing with them. And the people, when they saw Jesus, were perplexed, and 
in the midst of their joy hastened and saluted him. And on that day came certain 
of the Pharisees, and said unto him, Get thee out, and go hence; for Herod 
seeketh to kill thee. Jesus said unto them, Go ye and say to this fox, Behold, I 
am casting out demons, and I heal to-day and to-morrow, and on the third day I 
am perfected. Nevertheless I must be watchful a to-day and to-morrow, and on the 
last day I shall depart; for it cannot be that a prophet perish outside of 
Jerusalem. 
30 And after that, there came to him a man from that multitude, and fell upon 
his knees, and said unto him, I beseech thee, my Lord, look upon my son; he is 
my only child: and the spirit cometh upon him suddenly. A lunacy hath come upon 
him, and he meeteth with evils. And when it cometh upon him, it beateth him 
about; and he foameth, and gnasheth his teeth, and wasteth; and many times it 
hath thrown him into the water and into the fire to destroy him, and it hardly 
leaveth him after Arabic. bruising him. And I brought him near to thy disciples, 
and they could P. not heal him. Jesus answered and said, O faithless and 
perverse generation, till when shall I be with you? and till when shall I bear 
with you? bring thy son hither. And he brought him unto him: and when the spirit 
saw him, immediately it beat him about; and he fell upon the ground, and was 
raging and foaming. And Jesus asked his father, How long is the time during 
which he hath been thus? He said unto him, From his youth until now. But, my 
Lord, help me wherein thou canst, and have mercy upon me. Jesus said unto him, 
If thou canst believe! All things are possible to him that believeth. And 
immediately the father of the child cried out, weeping, and said, I believe, my 
Lord; help my lack of faith. And when Jesus saw the hastening of the people, and 
their coming at the sound, he rebuked that unclean spirit, and said to it, Thou 
dumb spirit that speakest not, I command thee, come out of him, and enter not 
again into him. And that spirit, devil, cried out much, and bruised him, and 
came out; and that child fell as one dead, and many thought that he had died. 
But Jesus took him by his hand, and raised him up, and gave him to his father; 
and that child was healed from that hour. And the people all marvelled at the 
greatness of God. 
45 And when Jesus entered into the house, his disciples came, and asked him 
privately, and said unto him, Why were we not able to heal him? Jesus said unto 
Arabic. them, Because of your unbelief. Verily I say unto you, If ye have faith 
as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say to this mountain, Remove hence; and it 
shall remove; and nothing shall overcome you. But it is impossible to cast out 
this kind by anything except by fasting and prayer. 
48 And when he went forth thence, they passed through Galilee: and he would 
not that any man should know it. And he taught his disciples, and said unto 
them, Keep ye these sayings in your ears and your hearts: for the Son of man is 
to be delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him; and when he is 
killed, he shall rise on the third day. But they knew not the word which he 
spake unto them, for it was concealed from them, that they should not perceive 
it; and they feared to ask him about this word. And they were exceeding 
sorrowful. 
SECTION XXV. 
25 1 And in that day this thought presented itself to his disciples, and they 
said, which 2 haply should be the greatest among them. And when they came to 
Capernaum, and entered into the house, Jesus said unto them, What were ye 
considering in the 3 way among yourselves? And they were silent because they had 
considered that matter. 
4 And when Simon went forth without, those that received two dirhams for the 
tribute came to Cephas, and said unto him, Doth your master not give his two 5 
dirhams? He said unto them, Yea. And when Cephas entered the house, Jesus 
anticipated him, and said unto him, What thinkest thou, Simon? the kings of the 
earth, from whom do they receive custom and tribute? from their sons, or from 6 
Arabic. strangers? Simon said unto him, From strangers. Jesus said unto him, p. 
Children then are free. Simon said unto him, Yea. Jesus said unto him, 7 Give 
thou also unto them, like the stranger. But, lest it trouble them, go thou to 
the sea, and cast a hook; and the first fish that cometh up, open its mouth, and 
thou shall find a staler: take therefore that, and give for me and thee. 
8 And in that hour came the disciples to Jesus, and said unto him, Who, 
thinkest 9 thou, is greater in the kingdom of heaven? And Jesus knew the thought 
of their heart, and called a child, and set him in the midst, and took him in 
his arms, and said unto them, Verily I say unto you, If ye do not return, and 
become as children, 11 ye shall not enter the kingdom of heaven. Every one that 
shall receive in my name such as this child hath received me: and whosoever 
receiveth me receiveth not me, but him that sent me. And he who is little in 
your company, the same shall be great. But whosoever shall injure one of these 
little ones that believe in me, it were better for him that a great millstone 
should be hanged about his neck, and he should be drowned in the depths of the 
sea. 
14 John answered and said, Our Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy 
name; and we prevented him, because he followed not thee with us. Jesus said 
unto them, Prevent him not; for no man doeth powers in my name, and can hasten 
to speak evil 16, of me. Every one who is not in opposition to you is with you. 
Woe unto the world Arabic. because of trials! but woe unto that man by whose 
hand the trials come If thy hand or thy foot injure thee, cut it off, and cast 
it from thee; for it is better for thee to enter into life being halt or maimed, 
and not that thou shouldest have two hands or two feet, and fall into the hell 
of fire that burneth for ever; 19, where their worm dieth not, and their fire is 
not quenched. And if thine eye seduce thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee; 
for it is better for thee to enter the kingdom of God with one eye, than that 
thou shouldest have two eyes, and fall into the 22, fire of Gehenna; where their 
worm dieth not, and their fire is not quenched. Every one shall be salted with 
fire, and every sacrifice shall be salted with salt. How good is salt! but if 
the salt also be tasteless, wherewith shall it be salted? It is fit neither for 
the land nor for dung, but they cast it out. He that hath ears to hear, let him 
hear. Have ye salt in yourselves. and be in peace one with another. 
27 And he arose from thence, and came to the borders of Judaea beyond Jordan: 
and there went unto him thither great multitudes, and he healed them; and he 
taught them also, according to his custom. And the Pharisees came unto him, 
tempting him, and asking him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife? He 
said, What did Moses command you? They said, Moses made it allowable for us, 
saying, Who- 31 soever will, let him write a writing of divorcement, and put 
away his wife. Jesus answered and said unto them, Have ye not read, He that made 
them from the beginning made them male and female, and said, For this reason 
shall the man leave his father Arabic, and his mother, and cleave to his wife; 
and they both shall be one body? So then they are not twain, but one body; the 
thing, then, which God hath joined together, let no man put asunder. And those 
Pharisees said unto him, Why did Moses consent that a man should give a writing 
of divorcement and put her away? Jesus said unto them, Moses because of the 
hardness of your hearts gave you leave to divorce your wives; but in the 
beginning it was not so. I say unto you, Whosoever putteth away his wife without 
fornication, and marrieth another, hath exposed her to adultery. And his 
disciples, when he entered the house, asked him again about that. And he said 
unto them, Every one who putteth away his wife, and marrieth another, hath 
exposed her to adultery. And any woman that leaveth her husband, and becometh 
another's, hath committed adultery. And whosoever mar- rieth her that is 
divorced hath committed adultery. And his disciples said unto him, If there be 
between the man and the woman such a case as this, it is not good for a man to 
marry. He said unto them, Not every man can endure this saying, except him to 
whom it is given. There are eunuchs which from their mother's womb were born so; 
and there are eunuchs which through men became eunuchs; and there are eunuchs 
which made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. He that is 
able to be content, let him be content. 
43 Then they brought to him children, that he should lay his hand upon them, 
and pray: and his disciples were rebuking those that were bringing them. And 
Jesus saw, and it was distressing to him; and he said unto them, Suffer the 
children to Arabic. come unto me, and prevent them not; for those that are like 
these have the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto you, Whosoever receiveth not 
the kingdom of God as this child, shall not enter it. And he took them in his 
arms, and laid his hand upon them, and blessed them. 
SECTION XXVI. 
26 2 And there came unto him publicans and sinners to hear his word. And the 
scribes and the Pharisees murmured, and said, This man receiveth sinners, and 3 
eateth with them. And Jesus, when he beheld their murmuring, spake unto them 4 
this parable: What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if one of them were 
lost, would not leave the ninety-nine in the wilderness, and go and seek the 
straying one 5 till he found it? Verily I say unto you, When he findeth it, he 
will rejoice over it 6 more than over the ninety-nine that went not astray; and 
bear it on his shoulders, and bring it to his house, and call his friends and 
neighbours, and say unto them, 7 Rejoice with me, since I have found my straying 
sheep. So your Father which is in heaven willeth not that one of these little 
ones that have strayed should perish, 8 and he seeketh for them repentance. I 
say unto you, Thus there shall be rejoicing in heaven over one sinner that 
repenteth, more than over ninety-nine righteous persons that do not need 
repentance. 
9 And what woman having ten drachmas would lose one of them, and not light a 
lamp, and sweep the house, and seek it with care till she found it; and when she 
found it, call her friends and neighbours, and say unto them, Rejoice with me, 
as I have found my drachma that was lost? I say unto you, Thus there shall be 
joy Arabic. before the angels of God over the one sinner that repenteth, more 
than over the ninety-nine righteous persons that do not need repentance. 
12, And Jesus spoke unto them also another parable: A man had two sons: and 
the younger son said unto him, My father, give me my portion that belongeth to 
me of thy goods. And he divided between them his property. And after a few days 
the younger son gathered everything that belonged to him, and went into a far 
country, and there squandered his property by living prodigally. And when he had 
exhausted everything he had, there occurred a great dearth in that country. And 
when he was in want, he went and joined himself to one of the people of a city 
of that country; and that man sent him into the field to feed the swine. And he 
used to long to fill his belly with the carob that those swine were eating: and 
no man gave him. And when he returned unto himself, he said, How many hired 
servants now in my father's house have bread enough and to spare, while I here 
perish with hunger! I will arise and go to my father's house, and say unto him, 
My father, I have sinned in heaven and before thee, and am not worthy now to be 
called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants. And he arose, and came to 
his father. But his father saw him while he was at a distance, and was moved 
with compassion for him, and ran, and fell on his breast, and kissed him. And 
his son said unto him, My father, I have sinned in heaven and before thee, and 
am not worthy to be called thy son. His father said unto his servants, Bring 
forth a stately robe, and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and put on 
him shoes on his feet: and bring and slay a fatted ox, that we may eat and make 
merry: for this my son was dead, and is Arabic. alive; and was lost, and is 
found. And they began to be merry. Now his eider son was in the field; and when 
he came and drew near to the house, he heard the sound of many singing. And he 
called one of the lads, and asked him what this was. He said unto him, Thy 
brother hath arrived; and thy father hath slain a fatted ox, since he hath 
received him safe and sound. And he was angry, and would not enter; so his 
father went out, and besought him to enter. And he said to his father, How many 
years do I serve thee in bondage, and I never transgressed a commandment of 
thine; and thou hast never given me a kid, that I might make merry with my 
friends? but this thy son, when he had squandered thy 32 property with harlots, 
and come, thou hast slain for him a fatted ox. His father said unto him, My son, 
thou art at all times with me, and everything I have is thine. It behoveth thee 
to rejoice and make merry, since this thy brother was dead, and is alive; and 
was lost, and is found. 
34 And he spake a parable unto his disciples: There was a rich man, and he 
had a steward; and he was accused to him that he had squandered his property. So 
his lord called him, and said unto him, What is this that I hear regarding thee? 
Give me the account of thy stewardship; for it is now impossible that thou 
shouldest be a steward for me. The steward said within himself, What shall I do, 
seeing that my lord taketh from me the stewardship? 
To dig I am not able; and to beg I am ashamed. I know what I will do, that, 
when I go out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses. And he 
called one after another of his lord's 39 debtors, and said to the first, How 
much owest thou my lord? He said unto him, An hundred portions of oil. He said 
unto him, Take thy writing, and sit down, and write quickly fifty portions. And 
he said to the next, And thou, how much owest thou my lord? He said unto him, An 
hundred cors of wheat. He said unto him, Take Arabic, thy writing, and sit down, 
and write eighty cors. And our lord com- mended the sinful steward because he 
had done a wise deed; for the chil- dren of this world are wiser than the 
children of the light in this their age. And I also say unto you, Make unto 
yourselves friends with the wealth of this unrighteousness; so that, when it is 
exhausted, they may receive you into their tents for ever. He who is faithful in 
a little is faithful also in much: and he who is unrighteous in a little is 
unrighteous also in much. If then in the wealth of unrighteousness ye were not 
trustworthy, who will intrust you with the truth? If ye are not found faithful 
in what does not belong to you, who will give you what belongeth to you? 
SECTION XXVII. 
27 Therefore the kingdom of heaven is like a certain king, who would make a 
reckoning with his servants. And when he began to make it, they brought to him 
one who owed him ten talents. And because he had not wherewith to pay, his lord 
ordered that he should be sold, he, and his wife, and children, and all that he 
4 had, and payment be made. So that servant fell down and worshipped him, and 
said unto him, My lord, have patience with me, and I shall pay thee everything. 
5 And the lord of that servant had compassion, and released him, and forgave him 
his 6 debt. And that servant went out, and found one of his fellow-servants, who 
owed him Arabic. a hundred pence; and he took him, and dealt severely with him, 
and said 7 unto him, Give me what thou owest. Sothe fellow-servant fell down at 
his 8 feet, and besought him, and said, Grant me respite, and I will pay thee. 
And he would not; but took him, and cast him into prison, till he should give 
him his debt. 9 And when their fellow-servants saw what happened, it distressed 
them much; and they came and told their lord of all that had taken place. Then 
his lord called him, and said unto him, Thou wicked servant, all that debt I 
forgave thee, because thou besoughtest me: was it not then incumbent on thee 
also to have mercy on thy fellow-servant, as I had mercy on thee? And his lord 
became wroth, and delivered him to the scourgers, till he should pay all that he 
owed. So shall my Father which is in heaven do unto you, if one forgive not his 
brother his wrong conduct from his heart. Take heed within yourselves: if thy 
brother sin, rebuke him; and if he repent, forgive him. And if he act wrongly 
towards thee seven times in a day, and on that day return seven times unto thee, 
and say, I repent towards thee; forgive him. And if thy brother act wrongly 
towards thee, go and reprove him between thee and him alone: if he hear thee, 
thou hast gained thy brother. But if he hear thee not, take with thee one or 
two, and so at the mouth of two or three every saying shall be established. And 
if he listen not to these also, tell the congregation; and if he listen not even 
to the congregation, let him be unto thee as a publican and a Gen- tile. Verily 
I say unto you, All that ye bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and what ye 
loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. I say unto you also, If two of you 
agree on earth to ask, everything shall be granted them from my Father Arabic, 
which is in heaven. For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am l 
amongst them. Then Cephas drew near to him, and said unto him, My Lord, how many 
times, if my brother act wrongly towards me, should I forgive him? until seven 
times? Jesus said unto him, I say not unto thee, Until seven; but, Until sev-24 
enty times seven, seven. And the servant that knoweth his lord's will, and 
maketh not ready for him according to his will, shall meet with much punishment; 
but he that knoweth not, and doeth something for which he meriteth punishment, 
shall meet with slight punishment. Every one to whom much hath been given, much 
shall be asked of him; and he that hath had much committed to him, much shall be 
required at his hand. I came to cast fire upon the earth; and I would that it 
had been kindled already. And I have a baptism to be baptized with, and greatly 
am I straitened till it be accomplished. See that ye despise not one of these 
little ones that believe in me. Verily I say unto you, Their angels at all times 
see the face of my Father which is in heaven. The Son of man came to save the 
thing which was lost. 
30 And after that, Jesus walked in Galilee; and he did not like to walk in 
Judaea, because the Jews sought to kill him. And there came people who told him 
of the Galilaeans, those whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. 
Jesus answered and said unto them, Do ye imagine that those Galilaeans were 
sinners more than all the Galilaeans, so that this thing has come upon them? 
Nay. Verily I say unto you now, that ye shall all also, if ye repent not, 
likewise perish. Or perchance those eighteen on whom the palace fell in Siloam, 
and slew them, do ye imagine that they were to be condemned more than all the 
people that dwell Arabic, in Jerusalem? Nay. Verily I say unto you, If ye do not 
all repent, ye p. 106 shall perish like them. 
36 And he spake unto them this parable: A man had a fig tree planted in his 
vineyard; and he came and sought fruit thereon, and found none. So he said to 
the husbandman, Lo, three years do I come and seek fruit on this fig tree, and 
find none: cut it down; why doth it render the ground unoccupied? The husbandman 
said unto him, My lord, leave it this year also, that I may dig about it, and 
dung it; then if it bear fruit--! and if not, then cut it down in the coming 
year. 
40 And when Jesus was teaching on the sabbath day in one of the synagogues, 
there was there a woman that had a spirit of disease eighteen years; and she was 
bowed down, and could not straighten herself at all. And Jesus saw her, and 
called her, and said unto her, Woman, be loosed from thy disease. And he put his 
hand upon her; and immediately she was straightened, and praised God. And the 
chief of the synagogue answered with anger, because Jesus had healed on a 
sabbath, and said unto the multitudes, There are six days in which work ought to 
be done; come in them and be healed, and not on the sabbath day. But Jesus 
answered and said unto him, Ye hypocrites, doth not each of you on the sabbath 
day loose his ox or his ass from the manger, and go and water it? Ought not this 
woman, who is a daughter of Abraham, and whom the devil hath bound eighteen 
years, to be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day? And when he said this, 
they were all put to shame, those standing, who were opposing him: and all the 
people were pleased with all the wonders that proceeded from his hand. 
SECTION XXVIII. 
28 2 Arabic. And at that time the feast of tabernacles of the Jews drew near. 
So the brethren of Jesus said unto him, Remove now hence, and go to Judaea, that 
3 thy disciples may see the deeds that thou doest. For no man doeth a thing 
secretly 4 and wisheth to be apparent. If thou doest this, shew thyself to the 
world. For 5 up to this time not even the brethren of Jesus believed on him. 
Jesus said unto them, My time till now has not arrived; but as for you, your 
time is alway ready. 6 It is not possible for the world to hate you; but me it 
hateth, for I bear witness 7 against it, that its deeds are evil. As for you, go 
ye up unto this feast: but I go 8 not up now to this feast; for my time has not 
yet been completed. He said this, and remained behind in Galilee. 
9 But when his brethren went up unto the feast, he journeyed from Galilee, 
and to came to the borders of Judaea, to the country beyond Jordan; and there 
came after him great multitudes, and he healed them all there. And he went out, 
and proceeded to the feast, not openly, but as one that conceals himself. And 
the Jews sought him at the feast, and said, In what place is this man? And there 
occurred much murmuring there in the great multitude that came to the feast, on 
his account. For some said, He is good: and others said, Nay, but he leadeth the 
people astray. But no man spake of him openly for fear of the Jews. 
15 Arabic. But when the days of the feast of tabernacles were half over, 
Jesus went up to the temple, and taught. And the Jews wondered, and said, How 
doth this man know writing, seeing he hath not learned? Jesus answered and said, 
My doc- trine is not mine, but his that sent me. 
Whoever wisheth to do his will understandeth my doctrine? whether it be from 
God, or whether I speak of mine own accord. Whosoever speaketh of his own accord 
seeketh praise for himself; but whosoever seeketh praise for him that sent him, 
he is true, and unrighteousness in his heart there is none. Did not Moses give 
you the law, and no man of you keepeth the law? Why seek ye to kill me? The 
multitude answered and said unto him, Thou hast demons: who seeketh to kill 
thee? Jesus answered and said unto them, I did one deed, and ye all marvel 
because of this. Moses hath given you circumcision (not because it is from 
Moses, but it is from the fathers); and ye on the sabbath circumcise a man. And 
if a man is circumcised on the sabbath day, that the law of Moses may not be 
broken; are ye angry at me, because I healed on the sabbath day the whole man? 
Judge not with hypocrisy, but judge righteous judgement. 
26 And some people from Jerusalem said, Is not this he whom they seek to 
slay? And lo, he discourseth with them openly, and they say nothing unto him. 
Think you that our eiders have learned that this is the Messiah indeed? But this 
man is known whence he is; and the Messiah, when he cometh, no man knoweth 
whence he is. So Jesus lifted up his voice as he taught in the temple, and said, 
Ye both know me, and know whence I am; and of my own accord am I not come, but 
he Arabic. that sent me is true, he whom ye know not: but I know him; for I am 
from him, and he sent me. And they sought to seize him: and no man laid a hand 
on him, because his hour had not yet come. But many of the multitude believed on 
him; and they said, The Messiah, when he cometh, can it be that he will do more 
than these signs that this man doeth? 
33 And a man of that multitude said unto our Lord, Teacher, say to my brother 
that he divide with me the inheritance. Jesus said unto him, Man, who is it that 
appointed me over you as a judge and divider? And he said unto his disciples, 
Take heed within yourselves of all inordinate desire; for it is not in abundance 
of 36 possessions that life shall be. And he gave them this parable: The ground 
of a rich man brought forth abundant produce: and he pondered within himself, 
and said, What shall I do, since I have no place to store my produce? And he 
said, I will do this: I will pull down the buildings of my barns, and build 
them, and make them greater; and store there all my wheat and my goods. And I 
will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid by for many years; take 
thine ease, eat, drink, enjoy thyself. God said unto him, O than of little 
intelligence, this night shall thy soul be taken from thee; and this that thou 
hast prepared, whose shall it be? So is he that layeth up treasures for himself, 
and is not rich in God. 
42 And while Jesus was going in the way, there came near to him a young man 
of the rulers, and fell on his knees, and asked him, and said, Good Teacher, 
what is it that I must do that I may have eternal life? Jesus said unto him, Why 
callest thou me good, while there is none good but the one, even God? Thou 
knowest the com- mandments. If thou wouldest enter into life, keep the 
commandments. The young Arabic. man said unto him, Which of the commandments? 
Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not steal, Thou 
shalt not kill, Thou shalt not bear false witness, Thou shall not do injury, 
Honour thy father and thy mother: and, Love thy neighbour as thyself. That young 
man said unto him, All these have I kept from my youth: what then is it that I 
lack? And Jesus looked intently at him, and loved him, and said unto him, If 
thou wouldest be perfect, what thou lackest is one thing: go away and sell 
everything that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in 
heaven: and take thy cross, and follow me. And that young man frowned at this 
word, and went away feeling sad; for he was very rich. And when Jesus saw his 
sadness, he looked towards his disciples, and said unto them, How hard it is for 
them that have possessions to enter the kingdom of God! 
SECTION XXIX. 
29 1 Verily I say unto you, It is difficult for a rich man to enter the 
kingdom of 2 heaven. And I say unto you also, that it is easier for a camel to 
enter the eye of 3 a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. 
And the disciples were wondering at these sayings. And Jesus answered and said 
unto them again, My children, how hard it is for those that rely on their 
possessions to enter the 4 kingdom of God! And those that were listening 
wondered more, and said amongst 5 themselves, being agitated, Who, thinkest 
thou, can be saved? And Jesus looked at them intently, and said unto them, With 
men this is not possible, but with God it is. 6 Arabic, it is possible for God 
to do everything. Simon Cephas said unto him, Lo, we have left everything, and 
followed thee; what is it, thinkest thou, that we 7 shall have? Jesus said unto 
them, Verily I say unto you, Ye that have followed me, in the new world, when 
the Son of man shall sit on the throne of his glory, ye also 8 shall sit on 
twelve thrones, and shall judge the twelve tribes of Israel. Verily I say unto 
you, No man leaveth houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or 
wife, or children, or kinsfolk, or lands, because of the kingdom of God, or for 
my 9 sake, and the sake of my gospel, who shall not obtain many times as much in 
this time, and in the world to come inherit eternal life: and now in this time, 
houses, and brothers, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands, with 
persecution; 11 and in the world to come everlasting life. Many that are first 
shall be last, and that are last shall be first. 
12 And when the Pharisees heard all this, because of their love for wealth 
they scoffed at him. And Jesus knew what was in their hearts, and said unto 
them, Ye are they that justify yourselves before men; while God knows your 
hearts: the thing that is lofty with men is base before God. 
14 And he began to say, A certain man was rich, and wore silk and purple, and 
en- joyed himself every day in splendour: and there was a poor man named 
Lazarus, and he was cast down at the door of the rich man, afflicted with sores, 
and he longed to fill Arabic, his belly with the crumbs that fell from the table 
of that rich man; yea, even the dogs used to come and lick his sores. And it 
happened that that poor man died, and the angels conveyed him into the bosom of 
Abraham: and the rich man also died, and was buried. And while he was being 
tormented in Hades, he lifted up his eyes from afar, and saw Abraham with 
Lazarus in his bosom. And he called with a loud voice, and said, My father 
Abraham, have mercy upon me, and send Lazarus to wet the tip of his finger with 
water, and moisten my tongue for me; for, behold, I am burned in this flame. 
Abraham said unto him, My son, remember that thou receivedst thy good things in 
thy life, and Lazarus his afflictions: but now, behold, he is at rest here, and 
thou art tormented. And in addition to all this, there is between us and you a 
great abyss placed, so that they that would cross unto you from hence cannot, 
nor yet from thence do they cross unto us. He said unto him, Then I beseech 
thee, my father, to send him to my father's house; for I have five brethren; let 
him go, that they also sin not, and come to the abode of this torment. Abraham 
said unto him, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them. He said 
unto him, Nay, my father Abraham: but let a man from the dead go unto them, and 
they will repent. Abraham said unto him, If they listen neither to Moses nor to 
the prophets, neither if a man from the dead rose would they believe him. 
27 The kingdom of heaven is like a man that is a householder, which went out 
early in the morning to hire labourers for his vineyard. And he agreed with the 
labourers on one penny a day for each labourer, and he sent them into his 
vineyard. And he went Arabic, out in three hours, and saw others standing in the 
market idle. He said unto them, Go ye also into my vineyard, and what is right I 
will pay you. And they went. And he went out also at the sixth and the ninth 
hour, and did like- wise, and sent them. And about the eleventh hour he went 
out, and found others standing idle. He said unto them, Why are ye standing the 
whole day idle? They said unto him, Because no one hath hired us. He said unto 
them, Go ye also into the vineyard, and what is right ye shall receive. So when 
evening came, the lord of the vineyard said unto his steward, Call the 
labourers, and pay them their wages; and begin with the later ones, and end with 
the former ones. And those of eleven hours came, and received each a penny. When 
therefore the first came, they supposed that they should receive something more; 
and they also received each a penny. And when they received it, they spake 
angrily against the householder, and said, These last worked one hour, and thou 
hast made them equal with us, who have suffered the heat of the day, and its 
burden. He answered and said unto one of them, My friend, I do thee no wrong: 
was it not for a penny that thou didst bargain with me? Take what is thine, and 
go thy way; for I wish to give this last as I have given thee. Or am I not 
entitled to do with what is mine what I choose? Or is thine eye perchance evil, 
because I am good? Thus shall the last ones be first, and the first last. The 
called are many, and the chosen are few. 
43 And when Jesus entered into the house of one of the chiefs of the 
Pharisees to eat bread on the sabbath day, and they were watching him to see 
what he would 44,45 do, and there was before him a man which had the dropsy, 
Jesus answered and said unto the scribes and the Pharisees, Is it lawful on the 
sabbath to heal? But Arabic, they were silent. So he took him, and healed him, 
and sent him away. And he said unto them, Which of you shall have his son or his 
ox fall on the sabbath day into a well, and not lift him up straightway, and 
draw water for him? And they were not able to answer him a word to that. 
SECTION XXX. 
30 1 And he spake a parable unto those which were bidden there, because he 
saw 2 them choose the places that were in the highest part of the sitting room: 
When a man invites thee to a feast, do not go and sit at the head of the room; 
lest there 3 be there a man more honourable than thou, and he that invited you 
come and say unto thee, Give the place to this man: and thou be ashamed when 
thou risest and 4 takest another place. But when thou art invited, go and sit 
last; so that when he that invited thee cometh, he may say unto thee, My friend, 
go up higher: and 5 thou shalt have praise before all that were invited with 
thee. For every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and every one that 
abaseth himself shall be exalted. 
6 And he said also to him that had invited him, When thou makest a feast a or 
a banquet, do not invite thy friends, nor even thy brethren, nor thy kinsmen, 
nor thy 7 rich neighbours; lest haply they also invite thee, and thou have this 
reward. But when thou makest a feast, invite the poor, and those with withered 
hand, and the 8 lame, and the blind: and blessed art thou, since they have not 
the means to reward 9 thee; that thy reward may be at the rising of the 
righteous. And when one of them that were invited heard that, he said unto him, 
Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God. 
10, Jesus answered again in parables, and said, The kingdom of heaven hath 
been lik- Arabic, ened to a certain king, which made a feast for his son, and 
prepared a great banquet, and invited many: and he sent his servants at the time 
of the feast to inform them that were invited, Everything is made ready for you; 
come. And they would not come, but began all of them with one voice to make 
excuse. And the first said unto them, Say to him, I have bought a field, and I 
must needs go out to see it: I pray thee to release me, for I ask to be excused. 
And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I am going to examine 
them: I pray thee to release me, for I ask to be excused. And another said, I 
have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. And the king sent also other 
servants, and said, Say to those that were invited, that my feast is ready, and 
my oxen and my fatlings are slain, and everything is ready: come to the feast. 
But they made light of it, and went, one to his field, and another to his 
merchandise: and the rest took his servants, and entreated them shamefully, and 
killed them. And one of the servants came, and informed his lord of what had 
happened. And when the king heard, he became angry, and sent his armies; and 
they destroyed those murderers, and burned their cities. Then he said to his 
servants, The feast is prepared, but those that were invited were not worthy. Go 
out quickly into the markets and into the partings of the ways of the city, and 
bring in hither the poor, and those with pains, and the lame, and the blind. And 
the servants did as the king commanded them. And they came, and said unto him, 
Our lord, we have done all that thou com- mandedst us, and there is here still 
room. So the lord said unto his servants, Go out into the roads, and the ways, 
and the paths, and every one that ye find, invite Arabic, to the feast, and 
constrain them to enter, till my house is filled. I say unto you, that no one of 
those people that were invited shall taste of my feast. And those servants went 
out into the roads, and gathered all that they found, good and bad: and the 
banquet-house was filled with guests. And the king entered to see those who were 
seated, and he saw there a man not wearing a festive garment: and he said unto 
him, My friend, how didst thou come in here not having on festive gar- ments? 
And he was silent. Then the king said to the servants, Bind his hands and his 
feet, and put him forth into the outer darkness; there shall be weeping and 
gnashing of teeth. The called are many; and the chosen, few. 
31 And after that, the time of the feast of unleavened bread of the Jews 
arrived, and Jesus went out to go to Jerusalem. And as he went in the way, there 
met him ten persons who were lepers, and stood afar off: and they lifted up 
their voice, and said, Our Master, Jesus, have mercy upon us. And when he saw 
them, he said unto them, Go and shew yourselves unto the priests. And when they 
went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw himself cleansed, 
returned, and was praising God with a loud voice; and he fell on his face before 
the feet of Jesus, giving him thanks: and this man was a Samaritan. Jesus 
answered and said, Were not those that were cleansed ten? where then are the 
nine? Not one of them turned aside to come and praise God, but this man who is 
of a strange people. He said unto him, Arise, and go thy way; for thy faith hath 
given thee life. 
40 And while they were going up in the way to Jerusalem, Jesus went in front 
of them; and they wondered, and followed him fearing. And he took his twelve 
disciples apart, and began to tell them privately what was about to befall him. 
And he said unto Arabic, them, We are going up to Jerusalem, and all the things 
shall be fulfilled that are written in the prophets concerning the Son of man. 
He shall be delivered to the chief priests and the scribes; and they shall 
condemn him to death, and deliver him to the peoples; and they shall treat him 
shamefully, and scourge him, and spit in his face, and humble him, and crucify 
him, and slay him: and on the third day he shall rise. But they understood not 
one thing of this; but this word was hidden from them, and they did not perceive 
these things that were addressed to them. 
46 Then came near to him the mother of the (two) sons of Zebedee, she and her 
(two) sons, and worshipped him, and asked of him a certain thing. And he said 
unto her, What wouldest thou? And James and John, her two sons, came forward, 
and said unto him, Teacher, we would that all that we ask thou wouldest do unto 
us. He said unto them, What would ye that I should do unto you? They said unto 
him, Grant us that we may sit, the one on thy right, and the other So on thy 
left, in thy kingdom and thy glory. And Jesus said unto them, Ye know not what 
ye ask. Are ye able to drink the cup that I am to drink? and with the baptism 
that I am to be baptized with, will ye be baptized? And they said unto him, We 
are able. Jesus said unto them, The cup that I drink ye shall drink; and with 
the baptism wherewith I am baptized ye shall be baptized: but that ye should sit 
on my right and on my left is not mine to give; but it is for him for whom my 
Father hath prepared it. 
SECTION XXXI. 
31 1 And when the ten heard, they were moved with anger against James and 
John. 2 And Jesus called them, and said unto them, Ye know that the rulers of 
the nations are their lords; and their great men are set in authority over them. 
Not thus shall it Arabic, be amongst you: but he amongst you that would be 
great, let him be to you a 4 servant; and whoever of you would be first, let him 
be to every man a 5 bond-servant: even as the Son of man also came not to be 
served, but to serve, and 6 to give himself a ransom in place of the many. He 
said this, and was going about 7 the villages and the cities, and teaching; and 
he went to Jerusalem. And a man asked him, Are those that shall be saved few? 
Jesus answered and said unto 8 them, Strive ye to enter at the narrow door: I 
say unto you now, that many shall 9 seek to enter, and shall not be able --from 
the time when the master of the house riseth, and closeth the door, and ye shall 
be standing without, and shall knock at the door, and shall begin to say, Our 
lord, open unto us; and he shall answer and say, I say unto you, I know you not 
whence ye are: and ye shall begin to say, 
Before thee we did eat and drink, and in our markets didst thou teach; and he 
shall say unto you, I know you not whence ye are; depart from me, ye servants of 
untruth. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when ye see Abraham, and 
Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of God, while ye are put 
forth without. And they shall come from the east and the west, and from the 
north and the south, and shah sit down in the kingdom of God. And there shall 
then be last that have become first, and first that have become last. 
15, And when Jesus entered and passed through Jericho, there was a man named 
Zac- chaeus, rich, and chief of the publicans. And he desired to see Jesus who 
he was; and he was not able for the pressure of the crowd, because Zacchaeus was 
little of stature. Arabic, And he hastened, and went before Jesus, and went up 
into an unripe fig tree to see Jesus: for he was to pass thus. And when Jesus 
came to that place, he saw him, and said unto him, Make haste, and come down, 
Zacchaeus: to-day I must be in thy house. And he hastened, and came down, and 
received him joyfully. And when they all saw, they murmured, and said, He hath 
gone in and lodged with a man that is a sinner. So Zacchaeus stood, and said 
unto Jesus, My Lord, now half of my possessions I give to the poor, and what I 
have unjustly taken from every man I give him fourfold. Jesus said unto him, 
To-day is salva- tion come to this house, because this man also is a son of 
Abraham. For the Son of man came to seek and save the thing that was lost. 
25 And when Jesus went out of Jericho, he and his disciples, there came after 
him a great multitude. And there was a blind man sitting by the way side 
begging. And his name was Timaeus, the son of Timaeus. And he heard the sound of 
the multitude passing, and asked, Who is this? They said unto him, Jesus the 
Naza- rene passeth by. And when he heard that it was Jesus, he called out with a 
loud voice, and said, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. And those that went 
before Jesus were rebuking him, that he should hold his peace: but he cried the 
more, and said, Son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stood, and commanded 
that they should call him. And they called the blind man, and said unto him, Be 
of good courage, and rise; for, behold, he calleth thee. And the blind 33 man 
threw away his garment, and rose, and came to Jesus. Jesus said unto him, What 
dost thou wish that I should do unto thee? And that blind man said unto him, My 
Lord and Master, that my eyes may be opened, so that I may see thee. Arabic, And 
Jesus had compassion on him, and touched his eyes, and said unto him, See; for 
thy faith hath saved thee. And immediately he received his sight, and came after 
him, and praised God; and all the people that saw praised God. 
36 And he spake a parable because he was nearing Jerusalem, and they supposed 
that at that time the kingdom of God was about to appear. He said unto them, A 
man, a son of a great race, went into a far country, to receive a kingdom, and 
return. And he called his ten servants, and gave them ten shares, and said unto 
them, Trade till the time of my coming. But the people of his city hated him, 
and sent messengers after him, and said, We will not that this man reign over 
us. And when he had received a kingdom, and returned, he said that the servants 
to whom he had given the money should be called unto him, that he might know 
what each of them had traded. And the first came, and said, My lord, thy share 
hath gained ten shares. The king said unto him, Thou good and faithful servant, 
who hast been found faithful in a little, be thou set over ten districts. And 
the second came, and said, My lord, thy portion hath gained five portions. And 
he said unto him also, And thou shall be set over five districts. And another 
came, and said, My lord, here is thy portion, which was with me laid by in a 
napkin: I feared thee, because thou art a hard man, and takest what thou didst 
not leave, and seekest what thou didst not give, and reapest what thou didst not 
sow. His lord said unto him, From thy mouth shall I judge thee, thou wicked and 
idle servant, who wast untrustworthy. Thou knewest that I am a hard man, and 
take what I did not leave, and reap what I did not sow: why didst thou not put 
my money at usury, and so I might come and seek it, with its gains? And he said 
unto those that were standing in front of him, Take from him the share, and give 
it to him that hath 50, Arabic, ten shares. They said unto him, Our lord, he 
hath ten shares. He said unto them, I say unto you, Every one that hath shall be 
given unto; and he that hath not, that which he hath also shall be taken from 
him. And those mine enemies who would not that I should reign over them, bring 
them, and slay them before me. 
SECTION XXXII. 
32 1 And when Jesus entered Jerusalem, he went up to the temple of God, and 
found 2 there oxen and sheep and doves. And when he beheld those that sold and 
those that bought, and the money-changers sitting, he made for himself a scourge 
of rope, and drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep and the oxen, and 
the money-changers; and he threw down their money, and upset their tables, and 
the seats of them that sold the doves; and he was teaching, and saying unto 
them, Is it not written, My house is a house of prayer for all peoples? and ye 
have made it a den for robbers. And he said unto those that sold the doves, Take 
this hence, and make not my Father's house a house of merchandise. And he 
suffered not any one to carry vessels inside the temple. 
And his disciples remembered the scripture, The zeal of thy house hath eaten 
me up. The Jews answered and said unto him, What sign hast thou shewn us, that 
thou doest this? Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this temple, and I 
shall raise it in three days. The Jews said unto him, This temple was built in 
forty-six years, and wilt thou raise it in three days? 10 But he spake unto them 
of the temple of his body, that when they destroyed it, he Arabic, would raise 
it in three days. When therefore he rose from among the dead, his disciples 
remembered that he said this; and they believed the scriptures, and the word 
that Jesus spake. 
12 And when Jesus sat down over against the treasury, he observed how the 
multitudes were casting their offerings into the treasury: and many rich men 
were 13, throwing in much. And there came a poor widow, and cast in two mites. 
And Jesus called his disciples, and said unto them, Verily I say unto you, This 
poor widow cast into the treasury more than all the people: and all of these 
cast into the place of the offering of God of the superfluity of their wealth; 
while this woman of her want threw in all that she possessed. And he spake unto 
them this parable, concerning people who trusted in them- selves that they are 
righteous, and despised every man: Two men went up to the temple to pray; one of 
them a Pharisee, and the other a publican. And the Pharisee stood apart, and 
prayed thus, O Lord, I thank thee, since I am not like the rest of men, the 
unjust, the profligate, the extortioners, or even like this publican; but I fast 
two days a week, and tithe all my possessions. And the publican was standing at 
a distance, and he would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but was beating 
upon his breast, and saying, O Lord, have mercy on me, me the sinner. I say unto 
you, that this man went down justified to his house more than the Pharisee. 
Every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and every one that abaseth 
himself shall be exalted. 
22 Arabic, And when eventide was come, he left all the people, and went 
outside the city to Bethany, he and his twelve, and he remained there. And all 
the people, because they knew the place, came to him, and he received them; and 
them that had need of healing he healed. And on the morning of the next day, 
when he returned to the city from Bethany, he hungered. And he saw a fig tree at 
a distance on the beaten highway, having on it leaves. And he came unto it, 
expecting to find something on it; and when he came, he found nothing on it but 
the leaves--it was not the season of figs--and he said unto it, Henceforward for 
ever let no man eat fruit of thee. And his disciples heard. 
27 And they came to Jerusalem. And there was there a man of the Pharisees, 
named Nicodemus, ruler of the Jews. This man came unto Jesus by night, and said 
unto him, My Master, we know that thou hast been sent from God as a teacher; and 
no man can do these signs that thou doest, except him whom God is with. Jesus 
answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, If a man be not 
born a second time, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said unto him, 
How can a man who is old be born? can he, think you, return again to his 
mother's womb a second time, to enter and be born? Jesus answered and said unto 
him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, If a man be not born of water and the 
Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. For he that is born of flesh is 
flesh; and he that 33 is born of Spirit is spirit. 
Wonder not that I said unto thee that ye must be born a Arabic, second time. 
The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest its voice, but thou knowest 
not from what place it cometh, nor whither it goeth: so is every man that is 
born of the Spirit. Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can that be? Jesus 
answered and said unto him, Art thou teaching Israel, and yet knowest not these 
things? Verily, verily, I say unto thee, What we know we say, and what we have 
seen we witness: and ye receive not our witness. If I said unto you what is on 
earth, and ye believed not, how then, if I say unto you what is in heaven, will 
ye believe? And no man hath ascended up into heaven, except him that descended 
from heaven, the Son of man, which is in heaven. And as Moses lifted up the 
serpent in the wilderness, so is the Son of man to be lifted up; so that every 
man who may believe in him may not perish, but have eternal life. God so loved 
the world, that he should give his only Son; and so every one that believeth on 
him should not perish, but should have eternal life. God sent not his Son into 
the world to judge the world; but that the world might be saved by his hand. He 
that believeth in him shall not be judged: but he that believeth not is 
condemned beforehand, because he hath not believed in the name of the only Son, 
the Son of God. This is the judgement, that the light came into the world, and 
men loved the darkness more than the light; because their deeds were evil. 
Whosoever doeth evil deeds hateth the light, and cometh not to the 47 light, 
lest his deeds be reproved. But he that doeth the truth cometh to the light, 
that his deeds may be known, that they have been done in God. 
xxxxxx 
that fig tree which thou didst curse hath dried up. And Jesus answered and 
said 6 unto them, Let there be in you the faith of God. Verily I say unto you, 
if ye believe, and doubt not in your hearts, and assure yourselves that that 
will be which 7 ye say, ye shall have what ye say. And if ye say to this 
mountain, Remove, and 8 fall into the sea, it shall be. And all that ye ask God 
in prayer, and believe, he will give you. And the apostles said unto our Lord, 
Increase our faith. He said unto them, If there be in you faith like a grain of 
mustard, ye shall say to this fig tree, Be thou torn up, and be thou planted in 
the sea; and it will obey you. Who of you hath a servant driving a yoke of oxen 
or tending sheep, and if he come from the field, will say unto him straightway, 
Go and sit down? Nay, he will say unto him, Make ready for me wherewith I may 
sup, and gird thy waist, and serve me, till I eat and drink; and afterwards thou 
shalt eat and drink also. Doth that servant haply, who did what he was bid, 
receive his praise? I think not. So ye also, when ye have done all that ye were 
bid, say, We are idle servants; what it was our duty to do, we have done. 
15 For this reason I say unto you, Whatever ye pray and ask, believe that ye 
Arabic, receive, and ye shall have. And when ye stand to pray, forgive what is 
in your heart against any man; and your Father which is in heaven will forgive 
you also your wrong-doings. But if ye forgive not men their wrong-doings, 
neither will your Father forgive you also your wrong-doings. 
18 And he spake unto them a parable also, that they should pray at all times, 
and not be slothful: There was a judge in a city, who feared not God, nor was 
ashamed for men: and there was a widow in that city; and she came unto him, and 
said, Avenge me of mine adversary. And he would not for a long time: but 
afterwards he said within himself, If of God I have no fear, and before men I 
have no shame; yet because this widow vexeth me, I will avenge her, that she 
come not at all times 23, and annoy me. And our Lord said, Hear ye what the 
judge of injustice said. And shall not God still more do vengeance for his 
elect, who call upon him in the night and in the day, and grant them respite? I 
say unto you, He will do vengeance for them speedily. Thinkest thou the Son of 
man will come and find faith on the earth? 
26, And they came again to Jerusalem. And it came to pass, on one of the 
days, as Jesus was walking in the temple, and teaching the people, and preaching 
the gospel, that the chief priests and the scribes with the elders came upon 
him, and said unto him, Tell us: By what power doest thou this? and who gave 
thee this power to do that? And Jesus said unto them, I also will ask you one 
word, and if ye tell me, I also shall tell you by what power I do that. The 
baptism of John, from what place is it? from heaven or of men? Tell me. And they 
reflected within them- Arabic, selves, and said, If we shall say unto him, From 
heaven; he will say unto p. 127 us, For what reason did ye not believe him? But 
if we shall say, Of men; we fear that the people will stone us, all of them. And 
all of them were holding to John, that he was a true prophet. They answered and 
said unto him, We know not. Jesus said unto them, Neither tell I you also by 
what power I work. What think ye? A man had two sons; and he went to the first, 
and said unto him, My son, go to-day, and till in the vineyard. And he answered 
and said, I do not wish to: but finally he repented, and went. And he went to 
the other, and said unto him likewise. And he answered and said, Yea, my lord: 
and went not. Which of these two did the will of his father? They said unto him, 
The first. Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, The publicans and 
harlots go before you into the kingdom of God. John came unto you in the way of 
righteousness, and ye believed him not; but the publicans and harlots believed 
him; and ye, not even when ye saw, did ye repent at last, that ye might believe 
in him. 
40 Hear another parable: A man was a householder, and planted a vineyard, and 
surrounded it with a hedge, and digged in it a winepress, and built in it a 
tower, 41, and gave it to husbandmen, and went to a distance for a long time. So 
when the time of the fruits came, he sent his servants unto the husbandmen, that 
they might send him of the produce of his vineyard. And those husbandmen beat 
him, and sent him away empty. And he sent unto them another servant also; and 
they stoned him, and wounded him, and sent him away with shameful handling. And 
he sent again another; and they slew him. And he sent many other servants unto 
them. And the husbandmen took his servants, and one they beat, and another they 
stoned, and another they slew. So he sent again other servants more than the 
first; and Arabic, they did likewise with them. So the owner of the vineyard 
said, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son: it may be they will see him 
and be 49, ashamed. So at last he sent unto them his beloved son that he had. 
But the husbandmen, when they saw the son, said amongst themselves, This is the 
heir. 51, And they said, We will slay him, and so the inheritance will be ours. 
So they took him, and put him forth without the vineyard, and slew him. When 
then the lord of the vineyard shall come, what will he do with those husbandmen? 
They said unto him, He will destroy them in the worst of ways, and give the 
vineyard to other husbandmen, who will give him fruit in its season. Jesus said 
unto them, Have ye never read in the scripture, The stone which the builders 
declared to be base, The same came to be at the head of the corner: 
56 From God was this, And it is wonderful in our eyes? 
57 Therefore I say unto you, The kingdom of God shall be taken from you, and 
given to a people that will produce fruit. And whosoever falleth on this stone 
shall be broken in pieces: but on whomsoever it falleth, it will grind him to 
powder. And when the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, they 
perceived that it was concerning them he spake. And they sought to seize him; 
and they feared the multitude, because they were holding to him as the prophet. 
SECTION XXXIV. 
34 1 Then went the Pharisees and considered how they might ensnare him in a 
word, 2 and deliver him into the power of the judge, and into the power of the 
ruler. And they sent unto him their disciples, with the kinsfolk of Herod; and 
they said unto him, Arabic, Teacher, we know that thou speakest the truth, and 
teachest the way of God with equity, and art not lifted up by any man: for thou 
actest not so as to 3 be seen of any man. Tell us now, What is thy opinion? Is 
it lawful that we should 4 pay the tribute to Caesar, or not? shall we give, or 
shall we not give? But Jesus knew 5 their deceit, and said unto them, Why tempt 
ye me, ye hypocrites? Shew me the 6 penny of the tribute. So they brought unto 
him a penny. Jesus said unto them, To whom belongeth this image and inscription? 
They said unto him, To Caesar. 8 He said unto them, Give what is Caesar's to 
Caesar, and what is God's to God. And they could not make him slip in a single 
word before the people; and they marvelled at his word, and refrained. 
9 And on that day came the Sadducees, and said unto him, There is no life for 
the dead. And they asked him, and said unto him, Teacher, Moses said unto us, If 
a man die, not having children, let his brother take his wife, and raise up seed 
for his brother. Now there were with us seven brethren: and the first took a 
wife, and died without children; and the second took his wife, and died without 
children; and the third also took her; and in like manner the seven of them 
also, and they 14, died without leaving children. And last of them all the woman 
died also. At the resurrection, then, which of these seven shall have this 
woman? for all of them took her. Jesus answered and said unto them, Is it not 
for this that ye have erred, because ye know not the scriptures, nor the power 
of God? And the sons of this world take wives, and the women become the men's; 
but those that have become worthy of that world, and the resurrection from among 
the dead, do not take wives, and the women also do not become the men's. Nor is 
it possible that they should die; but they are like the angels, and are the 
children of God, because they have become the children of the resurrection. For 
in the resurrection of the dead, have ye not read in the book of Moses, how from 
the bush God said unto him, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and 
the God of Jacob? And God is not the God of the dead, but of the living: for all 
of them are alive with him. And ye have erred greatly. 
22, And when the multitudes heard, they were wondering at his teaching. And 
some of the scribes answered and said unto him, Teacher, thou hast well said. 
But the rest of the Pharisees, when they saw his silencing the Sadducees on this 
point, gathered against him to contend with him. 
And one of the scribes, of those that knew the law, when he saw the 
excellence of his answer to them, desired to try him, and said unto him, What 
shall I do to inherit eternal life? and, Which of the commandments is greater, 
and has precedence in the law? Jesus said unto him, The first of all the 
commandments is, Hear, O 28 Israel; The Lord our God, the Lord is one: and thou 
shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with 
all thy thought, and with all thy 29, strength. This is the great and preeminent 
commandment. And the second, which is like it, is, Thou shall love thy neighbour 
as thyself. And another commandment greater than these two there is not. On 
these two commandments, then, are hung the Arabic, law and the prophets. That 
scribe said unto him, Excellent! my Master; thou hast said truly that he is one, 
and there is no other outside of him: and that a man should love him with all 
his heart, and with all his thought, and with all his soul, and with all his 
strength, and that he should love his neighbour as himself, is better than all 
savours and sacrifices. And Jesus saw him that he had answered wisely; and he 
answered and said unto him, Thou art not far from the 35, kingdom of God. Thou 
hast: spoken rightly: do this, and thou shalt live. And he, as his desire was to 
justify himself, said unto him, And who is my neighbour? Jesus said unto him, A 
man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho; and the robbers fell upon him, and 
stripped him, and beat him, his life remaining in him but little, and went away. 
And it happened that there came down a certain priest that way; and he saw him, 
and passed by. And likewise a Levite also came and reached that place, and saw 
him, and passed by. And a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to the place 
where he was, and saw him, and had compassion on him, and came near, and bound 
up his strokes, and poured on them wine and oil; and he set him on the ass, and 
brought him to the inn, and expended his care upon him. And on the morrow of 
that day he took out two pence, and gave them to the innkeeper, and said unto 
him, Care for him; and if thou spendest upon him more, when I return, I shall 
give thee. Who of these three now, thinkest thou, is nearest to him that fell 
among the robbers? And he said unto him, He that had compas- Arabic, sion on 
him. Jesus said unto him, Go, and do thou also likewise. And p. 132 no man dared 
afterwards to ask him anything. 
46 And he was teaching every day in the temple. But the chief priests and 
scribes and the eiders of the people sought to destroy him: and they could not 
find what they should do with him; and all the people were hanging upon him to 
hear him. And many of the multitude believed on him, and said, The Messiah, when 
he cometh, can it be that he will do more than these signs that this man doeth? 
And the Pharisees heard the multitudes say that of him; and the chief priests 
sent officers to seize him. And Jesus said unto them, I am with you but a short 
time yet, and I go to him that sent me. And ye shall seek me, and shall not find 
me: and where I shall be, ye shall not be able to come. The Jews said within 
themselves, Whither hath this man determined to go that we shall not be able to 
find him? can it be that he is determined to go to the regions of the nations, 
and teach the heathen? What is this word that he said, Ye shall seek me, and 
shall not find me: and where I am, ye cannot come? 
SECTION XXXV. 
35 1 And on the great day, which is the last of the feast, Jesus stood, 
crying out and 2 saying, If any man is thirsty, let him come unto me, and drink. 
Every one that believeth in me, as the scriptures said, there shall flow from 
his belly rivers of pure water. He said that referring to the Spirit, which 
those who believed in him were to receive: for the Spirit was not yet granted; 
and because Jesus had not yet been Arabic, glorified. And many of the multitude 
that heard his words said, This is in truth the prophet. And others said, This 
is the Messiah. But others said, Can it be that the Messiah will come from 
Galilee? Hath not the scripture said that from the seed of David, and from 
Bethlehem, the village of David, the 7 Messiah cometh? And there occurred a 
dissension in the multitude because of him. 8 And some of them were wishing to 
seize him; but no man laid a hand upon him. 
9 And those officers came to the chief priests and Pharisees: and the priests 
said unto them, Why did ye not bring him? The officers said, Never spake man 
thus as speaketh this man. The Pharisees said unto them, Perhaps ye also have 
gone 12, astray? Hath any of the rulers or the Pharisees haply believed in him? 
except this people which knows not the law; they are accursed. Nicodemus, one of 
them, he that had come to Jesus by night, said unto them, Doth our law haply 
condemn a man, except it hear him first and know what he hath done? They 
answered and said unto him, Art thou also haply from Galilee? Search, and see 
that a prophet riseth not from Galilee. 
17, And when the Pharisees assembled, Jesus asked them, and said, What say ye 
of the Messiah? whose son is he? They said unto him, The son of David. He said 
unto them, And how doth David in the Holy Spirit call him Lord? for he said, The 
Lord said unto my Lord, Sit on my right hand, That I may put thine enemies under 
thy feet. 
21, If then David calleth him Lord, how is he his son? And no one was able to 
answer him; and no man dared from that day again to ask him of anything. 
23 And Jesus addressed them again, and said, I am the light of the world; and 
he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall find the light of 
life. The Pharisees Arabic, said unto him, Thou bearest witness to thyself; thy 
witness is not true. Jesus 25 answered and said unto them, If I bear witness to 
myself, my witness is true; for I know whence I came, and whither I go; but ye 
know not whence I came, or 26, whither I go. And ye judge after the flesh; and I 
judge no man. And even if I judge, my judgement is true; because I am not alone, 
but I and my Father which 28, sent me. And in your law it is written, that the 
witness of two men is true. I am he that beareth witness to myself, and my 
Father which sent me beareth witness to me. They said unto him, Where is thy 
Father? Jesus answered and said unto them, Ye know not me, nor my Father: for 
did ye know me, ye would know my Father. He said these sayings in the treasury, 
where he was teaching in the 32 temple: and no man seized him; because his hour 
had not yet come. Jesus said unto them again, I go truly, and ye shall seek me 
and not find me, and ye shall die in your sins: and where I go, ye cannot come. 
The Jews said, Will he haply kill himself, that he saith, Where I go, ye cannot 
come? He said unto them, Ye are from below; and I am from above: ye are of this 
world; and I am not of this world. I said unto you, that ye shall die in your 
sins: if ye believe not that I am he, ye shall die in your sins. The Jews said, 
And thou, who art thou? Jesus said unto them, If I should begin to speak unto 
you, I have concerning you many words and judgement: but he that sent me is 
true; and I, what I heard from him is what 38, I say in the world. And they knew 
not that he meant by that the Father. Jesus Arabic, said unto them again, When 
ye have lifted up the Son of man, then ye shall know that I am he: and I do 
nothing of myself, but as my Father taught me, so I speak. And he that sent me 
is with me; and my Father hath not left me alone; because I do what is pleasing 
to him at all times. And while he was saying that, many believed in him. 
42 And Jesus said to those Jews that believed in him, If ye abide in my 
words, truly ye are my disciples: and ye shall know the truth, and the truth 
shall make you free. They said unto him, We are the seed of Abraham, and have 
never served any man in the way of slavery: how then sayest thou, Ye shall be 
free children? Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Every one 
that doeth a sin is a slave of sin. And the slave doth not remain for ever in 
the house; but the son remaineth 47, for ever. And if the Son set you free, 
truly ye shall be free children. I know that ye are the seed of Abraham; but ye 
seek to slay me, because ye are unable for my word. 
And what I saw with my Father, I say: and what ye saw with your father, ye 
do. They answered and said unto him, Our father is Abraham. Jesus said unto 
them, If ye were the children of Abraham, ye would do the deeds of Abraham. Now, 
behold, ye seek to kill me, a man that speak with you the truth, that I heard 
from God: this did Abraham not do. And ye do the deeds of your father. They said 
unto him, We were not born of fornication; we have one Father, who is God. Jesus 
said unto them, If God were your Father, ye would love me: I proceeded and came 
from God; and it was not of my own self that I came, but he sent Arabic, me. Why 
then do ye not know my word? Because ye cannot hear my word. Ye are from the 
father, the devil, and the lust of your father do ye desire to do, who from the 
beginning is a slayer of men, and in the truth standeth not, because the truth 
is not in him. And when he speaketh untruth, he speaketh from himself: for he is 
a liar, and the father of untruth. And I who speak the truth, ye believe me not. 
Who of you rebuketh me for a sin? And if I speak the truth, ye do not believe 
me. Whosoever is of God heareth the words of God: therefore do ye not hear, 
because ye are not of God. The Jews answered and said unto him, Did we not say 
well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast demons? Jesus said unto them, As for 
me, I have not a devil; but my Father do I honour, and ye dishonour me. I seek 
not my glory: here is one who seeketh and judgeth. 
SECTION XXXVI. 
36 1 Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whosoever keepeth my word shall not see 
death 2 for ever. The Jews said unto him, Now we know that thou hast demons. 
Abraham is dead, and the prophets; and thou sayest, Whosoever keepeth my word 
shall not 3 taste death for ever. Art thou haply greater than our father 
Abraham, who is 4 dead, and than the prophets, which are dead? whom makest thou 
thyself? Jesus said unto them, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing: my 
Father is he that 5 glorifieth me; of whom ye say, that he is our God; and yet 
ye have not known him: but I know him; and if I should say that I know him not, 
I should become 6 Arabic, a liar like you: but I know him, and keep his word. 
Abraham your father 7 longed to see my day; and he saw, and rejoiced. The Jews 
said unto him, 8 Thou art now not fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham? 
Jesus said unto 9 them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I 
am. And they take stones to stone him: but Jesus concealed himself, and went out 
of the temple. And he passed through them, and went his way. 
And as he passed, he saw a man blind from his mother's womb. And his 
disciples asked him, and said, Our Master, who sinned, this man, or his parents, 
so that he was born blind? Jesus said unto them, Neither did he sin, nor his 
parents: but that the works of God may be seen in him. It is incumbent on me to 
do the deeds of him that sent me, while it is day: a night will come, and no man 
will be able to busy himself. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of 
the world. And when he said that, he spat upon the ground, and made clay of his 
spittle, and smeared it on the eyes of the blind man, and said unto him, Go and 
wash thyself in the pool of Siloam. And he went and washed, and came seeing. And 
his neighbours, which saw him of old begging, said, Is not this he that was 
sitting begging? And some said, It is he; and others said, Nay, but he resembles 
him much. He 19, said, I am he. They said unto him, How then were thine eyes 
opened? He answered and said unto them, A man named Jesus made clay, and smeared 
it on my eyes, and said unto me, Go and wash in the water of Siloam: and I went 
and washed, and received sight. They said unto him, Where is he? He said, I know 
not. 22, Arabic, And they brought him that was previously blind to the 
Pharisees. And the day in which Jesus made clay and opened with it his eyes was 
a sabbath day. And again the Pharisees asked him, How didst thou receive sight? 
And he said unto them, He put clay on mine eyes, and I washed, and received 
sight. The people of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, for he 
keepeth not the sabbath. And others said, How can a man that is a sinner do 
these signs? And there came 26 to be a division amongst them. And again they 
said to that blind man, Thou, then, what sayest thou of him that opened for thee 
thine eyes? He said unto them, I say that he is a prophet. And the Jews did not 
believe concerning him, that he was blind, and received sight, until they 
summoned the parents of him who received sight, and asked them, Is this your 
son, of whom ye said that he was born blind? how then, behold, doth he now see? 
His parents answered and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was 
born blind: but how he has come to see now, or who it is that opened his eyes, 
we know not: and he also has reached his prime; ask him, and he will speak for 
himself. This said his parents, because they were fearing the Jews: and the Jews 
decided, that if any man should confess of him that he was the Messiah, they 
would put him out of the synagogue. For this reason said his parents, He hath 
reached his prime; ask him. And they called the man a second time, him that was 
blind, and said unto him, Praise God: we know that this man is a sinner. He 
answered and said unto them, Whether he be a sinner, I know not: I know one 
thing, that I was blind, and I now see. They said unto him again, Arabic, What 
did he unto thee? how opened he for thee thine eyes? He said unto them, I said 
unto you, and ye did not hear: what wish ye further to hear? ye also, do ye wish 
to become disciples to him? And they reviled him, and said unto him, Thou art 
the disciple of that man; but as for us, we are the disciples of Moses. And we 
know that God spake unto Moses: but this man, we know not whence he is. The man 
answered and said unto them, From this is the wonder, because ye know not whence 
he is, and mine eyes hath he opened. And we know that God heareth not the voice 
of sinners: but whosoever feareth him, and doeth his will, him he heareth. From 
eternity hath it not been heard of, that a man opened the eyes of a blind man, 
who had been born in blindness. If then this man were not from God, he could not 
do that. They answered and said unto him, Thou wast all of thee born in sins, 
and dost thou teach us? And they put him forth without. 
44 And Jesus heard of his being put forth without, and found him, and said 
unto him, Dost thou believe in the Son of God? He that was made whole answered 
and said, Who is he, my Lord, that I may believe in him? Jesus said unto him, 
Thou hast seen him, and he that speaketh to thee is he. And he said, I believe, 
my Lord. And he fell down worshipping him. 
SECTION XXXVII. 
37 1 And Jesus said, To judge the world am I come, so that they that see not 
may 2 see, and they that see may become blind. And some of the Pharisees which 
were 3 with him heard that, and they said unto him, Can it be that we are blind? 
Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye should not have sin: but now ye say, 
We see: and because of this your sin remaineth. 4 Arabic, Verily, verily, I say 
unto you, Whosoever entereth not into the fold of the sheep by the door, but 
goeth up from another place, that man is a thief and a 6 stealer. But he that 
entereth by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. And therefore the keeper of 
the door openeth for him the door; and the sheep hear his voice: and 7 he 
calleth his sheep by their names, and they go forth unto him. And when he 
putteth forth his sheep, he goeth before them, and his sheep follow him: because 
8 they know his voice. And after a stranger will the sheep not go, but they flee 
from 9 him: because they hear not the voice of a stranger. This parable spake 
Jesus unto them: but they knew not what he was saying unto them. Jesus said unto 
them again, Verily, verily, I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep. And all 
that came are thieves and stealers: but the sheep heard them not. I am the door: 
and if a man enter by me, he shall live, and shall go in and go out, and shall 
find pasture. And the stealer cometh not, save that he may steal, and kill, and 
destroy: but I came that they might have life, and that they might have the 
thing that is better. I am the good shepherd; and the good shepherd giveth 
himself for his sheep. But the hireling, who is not a shepherd, and whose the 
sheep are not, when he seeth the wolf as it cometh, leaveth the sheep, and 
fleeth, and the wolf cometh, and snatcheth away the sheep, and scattereth them: 
and the hireling fleeth because he is an hireling, and hath no care for the 
sheep. I am the 18 good shepherd; and I know what is mine, and what is mine 
knoweth me, as my Father knoweth me, and I know my Father; and I give myself for 
the sheep. And I have other sheep also, that are not of this flock: them also I 
must invite, and they shall hear my voice; and all the sheep shall be one, and 
the shepherd one. Arabic, And therefore doth my Father love me, because I give 
my life, that I may 21 take it again. No man taketh it from me, but l leave it 
of my own choice. And I have the right to leave it, and have the right also to 
take it. And this commandment did I receive of my Father. 
22 And there occurred a disagreement among the Jews because of these sayings. 
And many of them said, He hath a devil, and is afflicted with madness; why 
listen ye to him? And others said, These sayings are not those of men possessed 
with demons. Can a demon haply open the eyes of a blind man? 
25, And the feast of the dedication came on at Jerusalem: and it was winter. 
And Jesus was walking in the temple in the porch of Solomon. The Jews therefore 
surrounded him, and said unto him, Until when dost thou make our hearts anxious? 
If thou art the Messiah, tell us plainly. He answered and said unto them, I told 
you, and ye believe not: and the deeds that I do in my Father's name bear 
witness 29, to me. But ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep, as I said 
unto you. And my sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they come after me: 
and I give them eternal life; and they shall not perish for ever, nor shall any 
man snatch them out of my hands. For the Father, who hath given them unto me, is 
greater than all; and no man is able to take them from the hand of my Father. I 
and 34, my Father are one. And the Jews took stones to stone him. Jesus said 
unto them, Many good deeds from my Father have I shewed you; because of which of 
them, then, do ye stone me? The Jews said unto him, Not for the good deeds do we 
stone thee, but because thou blasphemest; and, whilst thou art a man, makest thy 
self God. Jesus said unto them, Is it not thus written in your law, I said, Ye 
are gods? Arabic, And if he called those gods--for to them came the word of God 
(and it is not possible in the scripture that anything should be undone)--he 
then, whom the Father hath sanctified and sent into the world, do ye say that he 
blasphemeth; because I said unto you, I am the Son of God? If then I do not the 
deeds of my Father, ye believe me not. But if I do, even if ye believe not me, 
believe the deeds: that ye may know and believe that my Father is in me, and I 
in my Father. And they sought again to take him: and he went forth out of their 
hands. 
43 And he went beyond Jordan to the place where John was baptizing formerly; 
and abode there. And many people came unto him; and they said, John did not work 
even one sign: but all that John said of this man is truth. And many believed in 
him. And there was a sick man, named Lazarus, of the village of Bethany, the 
brother of Mary and Martha. And Mary was she that anointed with sweet ointment 
the feet of Jesus, and wiped them with her hair; and Lazarus, who was sick, was 
the brother of this woman. And his sisters sent unto Jesus, and said unto him, 
Our Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick. But Jesus said, This sickness is 
not unto death, but for the glorifying of God, that the Son of God may be 
glorified 50, because of it. And Jesus loved Martha, and Mary, and Lazarus. And 
when he heard that he was sick, he abode in the place where he was two days. And 
after that, he said unto his disciples, Come, let us go into Judaea. His 
disciples said unto him, Our Arabic, Master, now the Jews desire to stone thee; 
and goest thou again thither? 54, Jesus said unto them, Is not the day of twelve 
hours? If then a man walk in the day, he stumbleth not, because he seeth the 
light of the world. But if a man walk in the night, he stumbleth, because there 
is no lamp in him. This said Jesus: and after that, he said unto them, Lazarus 
our friend hath fallen asleep; but I am going to awaken him. His disciples said 
unto him, Our Lord, if he hath fallen asleep, he will recover. But Jesus said 
that concerning his death: while they supposed that he spake of lying down to 
sleep. Then Jesus said unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead. And I am glad that I 
was not there for your sakes, that ye may believe; but let us go thither. 
Thomas, who is called Thama, said to the disciples, his companions, Let us also 
go, and die with him. 
SECTION XXXVIII. 
38 2 And Jesus came to Bethany, and found him already four days in the grave. 
And Bethany was beside Jerusalem, and its distance from it was a sum of fifteen 
fur- 3 longs; and many of the Jews came unto Mary and Martha, to comfort their 
heart 4 because of their brother. And Martha, when she heard that Jesus had 
come, went 5 out to meet him: but Mary was sitting in the house. Martha then 
said unto Jesus, 6 My Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. 
But I know now that, 7 whatever thou shalt ask of God, he will give thee. Jesus 
said unto her, Thy brother shall 8 rise. Martha said unto him, I know that he 
shall rise in the resurrection at the last day. 
Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: whosoever believeth 
in Arabic, me, even though he die, he shall live: and every living one that 
believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this? She said unto him, Yea, my 
Lord: I believe that thou art the Messiah, the Son of God, that cometh into the 
world. And when she had said that, she went and called Mary her sister secretly, 
and said unto her, Our Master hath come, and summoneth thee. And Mary, when she 
heard, rose in haste, and came unto him. (And Jesus then had not come into the 
village, but was in the place where Martha met him.) And the Jews also that were 
with her in the house, to comfort her, when they saw that Mary rose up and went 
out in haste, went after her, because they supposed that she was going to the 
tomb to weep. And Mary, when she came to where Jesus was, and saw him, fell at 
his feet, and said unto him, If thou hadst been here, my Lord, my brother had 
not died. And Jesus came; and when he saw her weeping, and the Jews that were 
with her weeping, he was troubled in himself, and sighed; and he said, In what 
place have ye laid him? And they said unto him, Our Lord, come and see. And the 
tears of Jesus came. The Jews therefore said, See the greatness of his love for 
him! But some of them said, Could not this man, who opened the eyes of that 
blind man, have caused that this man also should not die? And Jesus came to the 
place of burial, being troubled within himself. And the place of burial was a 
cave, and a stone was placed at its door. Jesus therefore said, Take these 
stones away. 
Martha, the sister of him that was dead, said unto him, My Lord, he hath come 
to stink for some time: he hath been four days dead. Jesus said unto her, Did 
not I say Arabic, unto thee, If thou believest, thou shall see the glory of God? 
And they re- moved those stones. And Jesus lifted his eyes on high,and said, My 
Father, I thank thee Since thou didst hear me. And I know that thou at all times 
hearest me: but I say this unto thee because of this multitude that is standing, 
that they may believe that thou didst send me. And when he had said that, he 
cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth. And that dead man came out, having 
his hands and feet bound with bandages, and his face wrapped in a scarf. Jesus 
said unto them, Loose him, and let him go. 
29 And many of the Jews which came unto Mary, when they saw the deed of 
Jesus, believed in him. But some of them went to the Pharisees, and informed 
them of all that Jesus did. 
31 And the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered, and said, What shall we 
do? for lo, this man doeth many signs. And if we leave him thus, all men will 
believe in him: and the Romans will come and take our country and people. And 
one of them, who was called Caiaphas, the chief priest he was in that year, said 
unto them, Ye know not anything, nor consider that it is more advantageous for 
us that one man should die instead of the people, and not that the whole people 
perish. And this he said not of himself: but because he was the chief priest of 
that year, he prophesied that Jesus was to die instead of the people; and not 
instead of the people alone, but that he might gather the scattered children of 
God together. And from that day they considered how to kill him. Arabic, And 
Jesus did not walk openly amongst the Jews, but departed thence to a place near 
the wilderness, to a town called Ephraim; and he was there, going about with his 
disciples. And the passover of the Jews was near: and many went up from the 
villages unto Jerusalem before the feast, to purify themselves. And they sought 
for Jesus, and said one to another in the temple, What think ye of his holding 
back from the feast? And the chief priests and the Pharisees had given 
commandment, that, if any man knew in what place he was, he should reveal it to 
them, that they might take him. 
42 And when the days of his going up were accomplished, he prepared himself 
that he might go to Jerusalem. And he sent messengers before him, and departed, 
and entered into a village of Samaria, that they might make ready for him. And 
they received him not, because he was prepared for going to Jerusalem. And when 
James and John his disciples saw it, they said unto him, Our Lord, wilt thou 
that we speak, and fire come down from heaven, to extirpate them, as did Elijah 
also? And Jesus turned, and rebuked them, and said, Ye know not of what spirit 
ye are. Verily the Son of man did not come to destroy lives, but to give life. 
And they went to another village. 
SECTION XXXIX. 
39 1 And Jesus six days before the passover came to Bethany, where was 
Lazarus, 2 whom Jesus raised from among the dead. And they made a feast for him 
there: 3 and Martha was serving; while Lazarus was one of them that sat with 
him. And 4 at the time of Jesus' being at Bethany in the house of Simon the 
leper, great multitudes of the Jews heard that Jesus was there: and they came, 
not because of Jesus alone, but Arabic, that they might look also on Lazarus, 
whom he raised from among the dead. 6 And the chief priests considered how they 
might kill Lazarus also; because 7 many of the Jews were going on his account, 
and believing in Jesus And Mary took a case of the ointment of fine nard, of 
great price, and opened it, and poured 8 it out on the head of Jesus as he was 
reclining; and she anointed his feet, and wiped them with her hair: and the 
house was filled with the odour of the ointment. 
9, But Judas Iscariot, one of the disciples, he that was to betray him, said, 
Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence, and given unto the poor? 
This he said, not because of his care for the poor, but because he was a thief, 
and the chest was with him, and what was put into it he used to bear. And that 
displeased the rest of the disciples also within themselves, and they said, Why 
went this ointment to waste? It was possible that it should be sold for much, 
and the poor be given it. And they were angry with Mary. And Jesus perceived it, 
and said unto them, Leave her; why molest ye her? a good work hath she 
accomplished on me: for the day of my burial kept she it. At all times the poor 
are with you, and when ye wish ye can do them a kindness: but I am not at all 
times with you. And for this cause, when she poured this ointment on my body, it 
is as if she did it for my bur- ial, and anointed my body beforehand. And verily 
I say unto you, In every place where this my gospel shall be proclaimed in all 
the world, what she did shall be told for a memorial of her. 18, Arabic, And 
when Jesus said that, he went out leisurely to go to Jerusalem, And p. 148 when 
he arrived at Bethphage and at Bethany, beside the mount which is called the 
mount of Olives, Jesus sent two of his disciples, and he said unto them, Go into 
this village that is opposite you: and when ye enter it, ye shall find an ass 
tied, and 22 a colt with him, which no man ever yet mounted: loose him, and 
bring them unto me. And if any man say unto you, Why loose ye them? say unto him 
thus, We seek them for our Lord; and straightway send them hither.All this was, 
that what was said in the prophet might be fulfilled, which said, Say ye unto 
the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy King cometh unto thee, Meek, and riding upon 
an ass, And upon a colt the foal of an ass. 
25 And the disciples did not know this at that time: but after that Jesus was 
glorified, his disciples remembered that these things were written of him, and 
that this they had done unto him. And when the two disciples went, they found as 
he had said unto them, and they did as Jesus charged them. And when they loosed 
them, their owners said unto them, Why loose ye them? They said unto them, We 
seek them for our Lord. And they let them go. And they brought the ass and the 
colt, and they placed on the colt their garments; and Jesus mounted it. And most 
of the multitudes spread their garments on the ground before him: and others cut 
branches from the trees, and threw them in the way. And when he neared his 
descent from Arabic, the mount of Olives, all the disciples began to rejoice and 
to praise God with a loud voice for all the powers which they had seen; and they 
said, Praise in the highest; Praise to the Son of David: Blessed is he that 
cometh in the name of the Lord; and blessed is the kingdom that cometh, that of 
our father David: Peace in heaven, and praise in the highest. And a great 
multitude, that which came to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming 
to Jerusalem, took young palm branches, and went forth to meet him, and cried 
and said, Praise: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, the King of 
Israel. Certain therefore of the Pharisees from among the multitudes 37 said 
unto him, Our Master, rebuke thy disciples. He said unto them, Verily I say unto 
you, If these were silent, the stones would cry out. 
38, And when he drew near, and saw the city, he wept over it, and said, Would 
that thou hadst known the things that are for thy peace, in this thy day! now 
that is hidden from thine eyes. There shall come unto thee days when thine 
enemies shall encompass thee, and straiten thee from every quarter, and shall 
get possession of thee, and thy children within thee; and they shall not leave 
in thee a stone upon another; because thou knewest not the time of thy 
visitation. 
42 And when he entered into Jerusalem, the whole city was agitated, and they 
said, Who is this? And the multitudes said, This is Jesus, the prophet that is 
from Naza- reth of Galilee. And the multitude which was with him bare witness 
that he called Lazarus from the grave, and raised him from among the dead. And 
for this cause great multitudes went out to meet him, because they heard the 
sign which he did. 
SECTION XL. 
40 1 Arabic, And when Jesus entered the temple, they brought unto him blind 
and 2 lame: and he healed them. But when the chief priests and the Pharisees saw 
the wonders that he did, and the children that were crying in the temple and 3 
saying, Praise be to the Son of David: it distressed them, and they said, 
Hearest thou not what these say? Jesus said unto them, Yea: did ye not read long 
ago, From 4 the mouths of children and infants thou hast chosen my praise? And 
the Pharisees said one to another, Behold, do ye not see that nothing availeth 
us? for lo, the whole world hath followed him. 
5 And there were among them certain Gentiles also, which had come up to wor- 
6 ship at the feast: these therefore came to Philip, who was of Bethsaida of 
Galilee, 7 and asked him, and said unto him, My lord, we wish to see Jesus. And 
Philip 8 came and told Andrew: and Andrew and Philip told Jesus. And Jesus 
answered and said unto them, The hour is come nigh, in which the Son of man is 
to be glori- 9 fied. Verily, verily, I say unto you, A grain of wheat, if it 
fall not and die in the earth, remaineth alone; but if it die, it beareth much 
fruit. He that loveth his life destroyeth it; and he that hateth his life in 
this world shall keep it unto the life eter- nal. If a man serve me, he will 
follow me; and where I am, there shall my servant be also: and whosoever serveth 
me, the Father will honour him. Now is my soul trou-Arabic, bled: and what shall 
I say? My Father, deliver me from this hour. But for this cause came I unto this 
hour. My Father, glorify thy name. And a 14 voice was heard from heaven, I have 
glorified it, and shall glorify it. And the multitude that were standing heard, 
and said, This is thunder: and others said, An angel speaketh to him. Jesus 
answered and said unto them, Not because of me was this voice, but because of 
you. Now is the judgement of this world; and the prince of this world shall now 
be cast forth. And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, shall draw every man 
unto me. This he said, that he might shew by what manner of death he should die. 
The multitudes said unto him, We have heard out of the law that the Messiah 
abideth for ever: how then sayest thou, that the Son of man is to be lifted up? 
who is this, the Son of man? Jesus said unto them, Another little while is the 
light with you. Walk so long as ye have light, test the darkness overtake you; 
for he that walketh in the darkness knoweth not whither he goeth. So long as ye 
have light, believe the light, that ye may be the children of the light. 
22 And when certain of the Pharisees asked of Jesus, when the kingdom of God 
should come, he answered and said unto them, The kingdom of God cometh not with 
expectation: neither shall they say, Lo, it is here! nor, Lo, it is there! for 
the kingdom of God is within you. 
24 And in the daytime he was teaching in the temple; and at night he used to 
go out, and pass the night in the mount called the mount of Olives.And all the 
people came to him in the morning in the temple, to hear his word. 
26, Then spoke Jesus unto the multitudes and his disciples, and said unto 
them, On Arabic, the seat of Moses are seated the scribes and Pharisees: 
everything that they say unto you now to keep, keep and do: but according to 
their deeds do ye not; for they say, and do not. And they bind heavy burdens, 
and lay them on the shoulders of the people; while they with one of their 
fingers will not come 30, near them. But all their deeds they do to make a shew 
before men. And all the multitude were hearing that with pleasure. 
32 And in the course of his teaching he said unto them, Guard yourselves from 
the scribes, who desire to walk in robes, and love salutation in the 
marketplaces, and sitting in the highest places of the synagogues, and at feasts 
in the highest parts of the rooms: and they broaden their amulets, and lengthen 
the cords of their cloaks, and love that they should be called by men, My 
master, and devour widows' houses, because a of their prolonging' their prayers; 
these then shall receive greater judge- ment. But ye, be ye not called masters: 
for your master is one; all ye are brethren. Call not then to yourselves any one 
father on earth: for your Father is one, who is in heaven. And be not called 
directors: for your director is one, even the Messiah. 39, He that is great 
among you shall be unto you a minister. Whosoever shall exalt himself shall be 
abased; and whosoever shall abase himself shall be exalted. 
41 Woe unto you, Pharisees! because ye love the highest places in the 
synagogues, and salutation in the marketplaces. 
42 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye devour widows' 
houses, because of your prolonging your prayers: for this reason then ye shall 
receive greater judgement. 
43 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye have shut the 
kingdom of God before men. 
44 Arabic Woe unto you that know the law! for ye concealed the keys of 
knowledge: ye enter not, and those that are entering ye suffer not to enter. 
45 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye compass land 
and sea to draw s one proselyte; and when he is become so, ye make him a son of 
hell twice as much as yourselves. 
46 Woe unto you, ye blind! guides! because ye say, Whosoever sweareth by the 
temple, it is nothing; but whosoever sweareth by the gold that is in the temple, 
shall be condemned. Ye blind foolish ones: which is greater, the gold, or the 
temple which sanctifieth the gold? And, Whosoever sweareth by the altar, it is 
nothing; but whosoever sweareth by the offering that is upon it, shall be 
condemned. Ye blind foolish ones: which is greater, the offering, or the altar 
which sanctifieth the offering? Whosoever then sweareth by the altar, hath sworn 
by it, and by all that is upon it. And whosoever sweareth by the temple, hath 
sworn by it, and by him that is dwelling in it. And whosoever sweareth by 
heaven, hath sworn by the throne of God, and by him that sitteth upon it. 
53 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye tithe mint and 
rue and dill and cummin and all herbs, and ye leave the important matters of the 
law, judgement, and mercy, and faith, and the love of God: this ought ye to do, 
and not to leave that undone. Ye blind guides, which strain out a gnat, and 
swallow n camels. 
55 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye cleanse the 
outside of the cup and of the platter, while the inside of them is full of 
injustice and wrong. Ye blind Pharisees, cleanse first the inside of the cup and 
of the platter, then shall the outside of them be cleansed. 
57 Arabic, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye resem- 
ble whited sepulchres, which appear from the outside beautiful, but within full 
of the bones of the dead, and all uncleanness. So ye also from without appear 
unto men like the righteous, but within ye are full of wrong and hypocrisy. 
59 One of the scribes answered and said unto him, Teacher, in this saying of 
thine thou art casting a slur on us. He said, And to you also, ye scribes, woe! 
for ye lade men with heavy burdens, and ye with one of your fingers come not 
near those burdens. 
61 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye build the tombs of 
the prophets, which your fathers killed, and adorn the burying-places of the 
righteous, and say, If we had been in the days of our fathers, we should not 
have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets. Wherefore, behold, 
ye witness against 64 yourselves, that ye are the children of those that slew 
the prophets. And ye also, ye fill up the measure of your fathers. Ye serpents, 
ye children of vipers, where shall ye flee from the judgement of Gehenna? 
SECTION XLI. 
41 1 Therefore, behold, I, the wisdom of God, am sending unto you prophets, 
and apostles, and wise men, and scribes: and some of them ye shall slay and 
crucify; and some of them ye shall beat in your synagogues, and persecute from 
city to 2 city: that there may come on you all the blood of the righteous that 
hath been poured upon the ground from the blood of Abel the pure to the blood of 
Zachariah the son of Barachiah, whom ye slew between the temple and the altar. 3 
Verily I say unto you, All these things shall come upon this generation, 
4 Arabic, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, slayer of the prophets, and stoner of them 
that are sent unto her! how many times did I wish to gather thy children, as 5 a 
hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not! Your house shall 6 
be left over you desolate. Verily I say unto you, Ye shall not see me 
henceforth, till ye shall say Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. 
7 And many of the rulers also believed on him; but because of the Pharisees they 
8 were not confessing him, lest they be put s out of the synagogue: and they 
loved 9 the praise of men more than the praising of God. And Jesus cried and 
said, Whosoever believeth in me, believeth not in me, but in him that sent me. 
And whosoever seeth me hath seen him that sent me. I am come a light into the 
world, and so every one that believeth in me abideth not in the darkness. And 
whosoever heareth my sayings, and keepeth them not, I judge him not: for I came 
not to judge the world, but to give the world life. Whosoever wrongeth me, and 
receiveth not my sayings, there is one that judgeth him: the word that I spake, 
it shall judge him at the last day. I from myself did not speak: but the Father 
which sent me, he hath given me commandment, what I should say, and what I 
should speak; and I know that his commandment is eternal life. The things that I 
say now, as my Father hath said unto me, even so I say. 
16 And when he said that unto them, the scribes and Pharisees began their 
evil-doing, being angry with him, and finding fault with his sayings, and 
harassing him in many things; seeking to catch something from his mouth, that 
they might be able to calumniate him. 
18 And when there gathered together myriads of great multitudes, which almost 
trode one upon another, Jesus began to say unto his disciples, Preserve 
yourselves from the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. For there is 
nothing concealed, that shall not be revealed: nor hid, that shall not be known. 
Everything that ye have said in the darkness shall be heard in the light; and 
what ye have spoken secretly in the ears in the inner chambers shall be 
proclaimed on the roofs. 
21, This said Jesus, and he went and hid himself from them. But 
notwithstanding his having done all these signs before them, they believed not 
in him: that the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, who said, My 
Lord, who is he that hath believed to hear us? 
And the arm of the Lord, to whom hath it appeared? 
24 And for this reason it is not possible for them to believe, because Isaiah 
also said, They have blinded their eyes, and made dark their heart; That they 
may not see with their eyes, and understand with their heart, And turn, So that 
I should heal them. 
26 This said Isaiah when he saw his glory, and spake of him. 
27 And when Jesus went out of the temple, certain of his disciples came 
forward to shew him the buildings of the temple, and its beauty and greatness, 
and the strength of the stones that were laid in it, and the elegance of its 
building, and that it was adorned with noble stones and beautiful colours. Jesus 
answered and said unto them, See ye these great buildings? verily I say unto 
you, Days will come, when there shall not be left here a stone upon another, 
that shall not be cast down. 
31 And two days before the passover of unleavened bread, the chief priests 
and the scribes sought how they might take him by deceit, and kill him: and they 
said, It shall not be at the feast, lest the people be agitated. 
33 And when Jesus sat on the mount of Olives opposite the temple, his 
disciples, Simon Cephas and James and John and Andrew, came forward unto him, 
and said unto him between themselves and him, Teacher, tell us when that shall 
be, and what is the sign Arabic, of thy coming and the end of the world. Jesus 
answered and said unto them, Days will come, when ye shall long to see one of 
the days of the Son of 36, man, and shall not behold. Take heed lest any man 
lead you astray. Many shall come in my name, and say, I am the Messiah; and they 
shall say, The time is come near, and shall lead many astray: go not therefore 
after them. And when ye hear of wars and tidings of insurrections, see to it, be 
not agitated: for these things must first be; only the end is not yet come. 
Nation shall rise against nation, and king- dom against kingdom: and great 
earthquakes shall be in one place and another, and there shall be famines and 
deaths and agitations: and there shall be fear and terror and great signs that 
shall appear from heaven, and there shall be great 42, storms. All these things 
are the beginning of travail. But before all of that, they shall lay hands upon 
you, and persecute you, and deliver you unto the synagogues and into prisons, 
and bring you before kings and judges for my name's sake. And that shall be unto 
you for a witness. But first must my gospel be preached unto all nations. And 
when they bring you into the synagogues before the rulers and the authorities, 
be not anxious beforehand how ye shall answer for yourselves, or what ye 47, 
shall say: because it is not ye that speak, but the Holy Spirit. Lay it to your 
heart, not Arabic, to be anxious before the time what ye shah say: and I shall 
give you under- standing and wisdom,s which all your adversaries shall not be 
able to gainsay. And then shall they deliver you unto constraint, and shall kill 
you: and ye shall be hated of all nations because of my name. And then shall 
many go astray, and they 52 shall hate one another, and deliver one another unto 
death. And your parents, and your brethren, and your kinsfolk, and your friends 
shall deliver you up, and shall 53, slay some of you. But a lock of hair from 
your heads shall not perish. And by your patience ye shall gain your souls. And 
many men, false prophets, shall arise, 56 and lead many astray. And because of 
the abounding of iniquity, the love of many shall wax cold. But he that endureth 
to the end, the same shall be saved. And this, the gospel of the kingdom, shall 
be preached in all the world for a testimony to all nations; and then shall come 
the end of all. 
SECTION XLII. 
42 1 But when ye see Jerusalem with the army compassing it about, then know 
that 2 its desolation is come near. Those then that are in Judaea at that time 
shall flee to the mountain; and those that are within her shall flee; and those 
that are in the 3 villages shall not enter her. For these days are the days of 
vengeance, that all that 4 is written may be fulfilled. And when ye see the 
unclean sign of desolation, spoken of in Daniel the prophet, standing in the 
pure place, he that readeth shall understand, 5,6 and then he that is in Judaea 
shall flee in to the mountain: and let him that is on the 7 roof not go down, 
nor enter in to take anything from his house: and let him that is in 8 Arabic, 
the field not turn behind him to take his garment. Woe to them that are with 
child and to them that give suck in those days! there shall be great 9 distress 
in the land, and wrath against this nation. And they shall fall on the edge of 
the sword, and shall be taken captive to every land: and Jerusalem shall be 
trodden down of the nations, until the times of the nations be ended. 
10 Then if any man say unto you, The Messiah is here; or, Lo, he is there; 
believe him not: there shall rise then false Messiahs and prophets of lying, and 
shall do signs and wonders, in order that they may lead astray even the elect 
also, if they be able. But as for you, beware: for I have acquainted you with 
everything beforehand. If then they say unto you, Lo, he is in the desert; go 
not out, lest ye be taken: and if they say unto you, Lo, he is in the chamber; 
believe not. And as the lightning appeareth from the east, and is seen unto the 
west; so shall be the coming of the Son of man. But first he must suffer much 
and be rejected by this generation. Pray therefore that your flight be not in 
winter, nor on a sabbath: there shall be then great tribulation, the like of 
which there hath not been from the beginning of the world till now, nor shall 
be. And except the Lord had shortened those days, no flesh would have lived: but 
because of the elect, whom he elected, 19 he shortened those days. And there 
shall be signs in the sun and the moon and the stars; and upon the earth 
affliction of the nations, and rubbing of hands for the con- Arabic. fusion of 
the noise of the sea, and an earthquake: the souls of men shall go forth from 
fear of that which is to come upon the earth. And in those days, straightway 
after the distress of those days, the sun shall become dark, and the moon shall 
not shew its light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of 
heaven shall be convulsed: and then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in 
heaven: and at that time all the tribes of the earth shall wail, and look unto 
the Son of man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and much glory. And he 
shall send his angels with the great trumpet, and they shall gather his elect 
from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other. But when these things 
begin to be, be of good cheer, and lift up your heads; for your salvation is 
come near. 
25 Learn the example of the fig tree: when it letteth down its branches, and 
put- teth forth its leaves, ye know that the summer is come; so ye also, when ye 
see these things begun to be, know ye that the kingdom of God hath arrived at 
the door. Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass away, until all 
these 28 things shall be. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my sayings shall 
not pass away. 
29 Take heed to yourselves, that your hearts become not heavy with inordinate 
desire, and drunkenness, and the care of the world at any time, and that day 
come upon you suddenly: for it is as a shock that shocks all the inhabitants 
that are on the face of the whole earth. Watch at all times, and pray, that ye 
may be worthy to escape Arabic. from all the things that are to be, and that ye 
may stand before the Son of 32 man. Of that day and of that hour hath no man 
learned, not even the angels of heaven, neither the Son, but the Father. See ye, 
and watch and pray: for ye know not when that time will be. It is as a man, who 
journeyed, and left his house, and gave his authority to his servants, and 
appointed every man to his work, and 35 charged the porter to be wakeful. Be 
wakeful then: since ye know not when the lord of the house cometh, in the 
evening, or in the middle of the night, or when the cock croweth, or in the 
morning; lest he come unexpectedly, and find you sleeping. The thing that I say 
unto you, unto all of you do I say it, Be ye watchful. 
38 For as it was in the days of Noah, so shall the coming of the Son of man 
be. As they were before the flood eating and drinking, and taking wives, and 
giving wives to men, until the day in which Noah entered into the ark, and they 
perceived not till the flood came, and took them all; so shall the coming of the 
Son of man be. And as it was in the days of Lot; they were eating and drinking, 
and selling and buying, and planting and building, on the day in which Lot went 
out from Sodom, and the Lord rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and 
destroyed them 43, all: so shall it be in the day in which the Son of man is 
revealed. And in that day, whosoever is on the roof, and his garments in the 
house, let him not go down to take them: and he that is in the field shall not 
turn behind him. Remember Lot's wife. Whosoever shall desire to save his life 
shall destroy it: but whosoever shall destroy his life shall save it. Verily I 
say unto you, In that night there shall be two on Arabic, one bed; one shall be 
taken, and another left. And two women shall be grind- p. 162 ing at one mill; 
one shall be taken, and another left. And two shall be in the field; one shall 
be taken, and another left. They answered and said unto him, To what place, our 
Lord? He said unto them, Where the body is, there will the eagles 51, gather. Be 
attentive now: for ye know not at what hour your Lord cometh. Know this: if the 
master of the house had known in what watch the thief would come, he would have 
been attentive, and would not make it possible that his house should be broken 
through. Therefore be ye also ready: for in the hour that ye think not the Son 
of man cometh. 
SECTION XLIII. 
43 1 Simon Cephas said unto him, Our Lord, is it to us that thou hast spoken 
this 2 parable, or also to every man? Jesus said unto him, Who, thinkest thou, 
is the servant, the master of the house, trusted with control, whom his lord set 
over his 3 household, to give them their food in its season? Blessed is that 
servant, whom his 4 lord shall come and find having done so. Verily I say unto 
you, He will set him 5 over all that he hath. But if that evil servant say in 
his heart, My lord delayeth his 6 coming; and shall begin to beat his servants 
and the maidservants of his lord, and 7 shall begin to eat and to drink with the 
drunken; the lord of that servant shall come 8 in the day that he thinketh not, 
and in the hour that he knoweth not, and shall Arabic, judge him, and appoint 
his portion with the hypocrites, and with those that are not faithful: there 
shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
9 Then shall the kingdom of heaven be like unto ten virgins, those that took 
their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom and the bride. Five of them 
were wise, and five foolish. And those foolish ones took their lamps, and took 
not with 12, them oil: but those wise ones took oil in vessels along with their 
lamps. When then the bridegroom delayed, they all slumbered and slept. But in 
the middle of the night there occurred a cry, Behold, the bridegroom cometh! Go 
forth therefore to meet him. Then all those virgins arose, and made ready their 
lamps. The foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are 
gone out. But those wise answered and said, Perhaps there will not be enough for 
us and you: but go ye to the sellers, and buy for yourselves. And when they went 
away to buy, the bridegroom came; and those that were ready went in with him to 
the marriage feast: and the door was shut. And at last those other virgins also 
came and said, Our Lord, our Lord, open unto us. He answered and said unto them, 
Verily I say unto you, 21 I know you not. Watch then, for ye know not that day 
nor that hour. 
22 It is as a man, who went on a journey, and called his servants, and 
delivered unto them his possessions. And unto one he gave five talents, and 
another two, and another one; every one according to his strength; and went on 
his journey forthwith. He Arabic, then that received the five talents went and 
traded with them, and gained 25, other five. And so also he of the two gained 
other two. But he that re- ceived the one went and digged in the earth, and hid 
the money of his lord. And after a long time the lord of those servants came, 
and took from them the account. And he that received five talents came near and 
brought other five, and said, My lord, thou gavest me five talents: lo, I have 
gained other five in addition to them. His lord said unto him, Well done, thou 
good and faithful servant: over a little hast thou been faithful, over much will 
I set thee: enter into the joy of thy lord. And he that had the two came near 
and said, My lord, thou gavest me two talents: lo, other two have I gained in 
addition to them. His lord said unto him, Good, thou faithful servant: over a 
little hast thou been faithful, over much will I set thee: enter into the joy of 
thy lord. And he also that received the one talent came forward and said, My 
lord, I knew thee that thou an a severe man, who reapest where thou sowest not, 
and gatherest where thou didst not scatter: and so I was afraid, and went away 
and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, thou hast what is thine. His lord answered 
and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest me 35 that I 
reap where I sowed not, and gather where I did not scatter; it was incumbent on 
thee to put my money to the bank, and then I should come and seek it with its 
gains. Take now from him the talent, and give it to him that hath ten talents. 
Whosoever hath shall be given, and he shall have more: but he that hath not, 
even Arabic, what he hath shall be taken from him. And the unprofitable servant, 
put him forth into the outer darkness: there shall be the weeping and gnashing 
of teeth. 
39, Your loins shall be girded, and your lamps lit; and ye shall be like the 
people that are looking for their lord, when he shall return from the feast; so 
that, when he cometh and knocketh, they may at once open unto him. Blessed are 
those servants, whom their lord shall come and find attentive: verily I say unto 
you, that he will gird his waist, and make them sit down, and pass through them 
and serve them. And if he come in the second watch, or the third, and find thus, 
blessed are those servants. 
43 But when the Son of man cometh in his glory, and all his pure angels with 
him, then shall he sit on the throne of his glory: and he will gather before him 
all the nations, and separate them the one from the other, like the shepherd who 
separateth the sheep from the goats; and will set the sheep on his right, and 
the goats on his left. Then shall the King say to those that are at his right, 
Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the 
foundations of the world: I hungered, and ye gave me to eat; and I thirsted, and 
ye gave me to drink; and I was a stranger, and ye took me in; and I was naked, 
and ye clothed me; and I was sick, and ye visited me; and I was in prison, and 
ye cared for me. Then shall those righteous say unto him, Our Lord, when saw we 
thee hungry, and fed thee? or thirsty, and gave thee to drink? And when saw we 
thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee? And when saw we 
thee sick, or imprisoned, and cared for thee? The King shall answer an d say 
unto them, Verily I say unto you, What Arabic, ye did to one of these my 
brethren, the little ones, ye did unto me. Then shall he say unto those that are 
on his left also, Depart from me, ye cursed, 54 into the eternal fire prepared 
for the devil and his hosts: I hungered, and ye fed me not; and I thirsted, and 
ye did not give me to drink; and I was a stranger, and ye took me not in; and I 
was naked, and ye clothed me not; and I was sick, and im- prisoned, and ye 
visited me not. Then shall those also answer and say, Our Lord, when saw we thee 
an hungred, or athirst, or naked, or a stranger, or sick, or im- prisoned, and 
did not minister unto thee? Then shall he answer and say unto them, Verily I say 
unto you, When ye did it not unto one of these little ones, ye did it not unto 
me also. And these shall go away into eternal punishment: but the righteous into 
eternal life. 
SECTION XLIV. 
41 2 And when Jesus finished all these sayings, he said unto his disciples, 
Ye know that after two days will be the passover, and the Son of man is 
delivered up to be 3 crucified. Then gathered together the chief priests, and 
the scribes, and the elders 4 of the people, unto the court of the chief priest, 
who was called Caiaphas; and they took counsel together concerning Jesus, that 
they might seize him by subtilty, and 5 kill him. But they said, Not during the 
feast, lest there take place a disturbance among the people; for they feared the 
people. 
6 And Satan entered into Judas who was called Iscariot, who was of the number 
7 of the twelve. And he went away, and communed with the chief priests, and the 
scribes, and those that held command in the temple, and said unto them, What 8 
Arabic, would ye pay me, and I will deliver him unto you? And they, when they 
heard it, were pleased, and made ready for him thirty pieces of money. 9 And he 
promised them, and from that time he sought an opportunity that he might deliver 
unto them Jesus without the multitude. And on the first day of unleavened bread 
the disciples came to Jesus, and said unto him, Where wilt thou that we go and 
make ready for thee that thou mayest eat the passover? 
11 And before the feast of the passover, Jesus knew that the hour was arrived 
for his departure from this world unto his Father; and he loved his own in this 
world, and to the last he loved them. And at the time of the feast, Satan put 
into the heart of Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, to deliver him up. And 
Jesus, because he knew that the Father had delivered into his hands everything, 
and that he came forth from the Father, and goeth unto God, rose from supper, 
and laid aside his garments; and took a towel, and girded his waist, and poured 
water into a bason, and began to wash the feet of his disciples, and to wipe 
them with the towel where- with his waist was girded. And when he came to Simon 
Cephas, Simon said unto 17 him, Dost thou, my Lord, wash for me my feet? Jesus 
answered and said unto him, What I do, now thou knowest not; but afterwards thou 
shall learn. Simon said unto him, Thou shalt never wash for me my feet. Jesus 
said unto him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. Simon Cephas said 
unto him, Then, my Lord, wash not for me my feet alone, but my hands also and my 
head. Jesus said unto him, He that batheth needeth not to wash save his feet, 
whereas his whole body is clean: and ye also are clean, but not all of you. For 
Jesus knew him that should betray him; therefore said he, Ye are not all clean. 
22 Arabic. So when he had washed their feet, he took his garments, and sat 
down, and said unto them, Know ye what I have done unto you? Ye call me, Master, 
and, Lord: and ye say well; so I am. If then I, now, who am your Lord and 
Master, have washed for you your feet, how needful is it that ye should wash one 
another's feet! This have I given you as an example, that as I have done to you 
so ye should do also. Verily, verily, I say unto you, No servant is greater than 
his lord; nor an apostle greater than he that sent him. If ye know that, ye are 
happy if ye do it. My saying this is not for all of you: for I know whom I have 
chosen: but that the scripture might be fulfilled, He that eateth with me bread 
lifted against me his heel. Henceforth I say unto you before it come to pass, 
that, when it cometh to pass, ye may believe that I am he. Verily, verily, I say 
unto you, Whosoever receiveth whomsoever I send receiveth me; and whosoever 
receiveth me receiveth him that sent me. 
31 Who is the great one, he that sitteth, or he that serveth? is it not he 
that sitteth? I am among you as he that serveth. But ye are they that have 
continued with me in my temptations; I promise you, as my Father promised me, 
the kingdom, that ye may eat and drink at the table of my kingdom. 
34 And the first day came, the feast of unleavened bread, on which the Jews 
were wont to sacrifice the passover. And Jesus sent two of his disciples, Cephas 
and John, and said unto them, Go and make ready for us the passover, that we may 
eat. 36, And they said unto him, Where wilt thou that we make ready for thee? He 
said unto them, Go, enter the city; and at the time of your entering, there 
shall meet you a man bearing a pitcher of water; follow him, and the place where 
he entereth, say to such an one, the master of the house, Our Master saith, My 
time is come, and Arabic, at thy house I keep the passover. Where then is the 
lodging-place where p. 169 I shall eat with my disciples? And he will shew you a 
large upper room spread and made ready: there then make ready for us. And his 
two disciples went out, and came to the city, and found as he had said unto 
them: and they made ready the passover as he had said unto them. 
41 And when the evening was come, and the time arrived, Jesus came and 
reclined, and the twelve apostles with him. And he said unto them, With desire I 
have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer: I say unto you, that 
henceforth I shall not eat it, until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. 
44 Jesus said that, and was agitated s in his spirit, and testified, and 
said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, One of you, he that eateth with me, shall 
betray me. And they were very sorrowful; and they began to say unto him, one 
after another of them, Can it be Lord? He answered and said unto them, One of 
the twelve, he that dippeth his hand with me in the dish, will betray me. And 
Io, the hand of him that betrayeth me is on the table. And the Son of man goeth, 
as it is written of him: woe then to that man by whose hand the Son of man is 
betrayed! for it would have been better for that man had he not been born. And 
the disciples looked one on another, for they knew not to whom he referred; and 
they began to search among themselves, who that might be who was to do this. 
SECTION XLV. 
45 2 Arabic,And one of his disciples was sitting in his bosom, he whom Jesus 
loved. To him Simon Cephas beckoned, that he should ask him who this was, con- 3 
cerning whom he spake. And that disciple leaned on Jesus' breast, and said unto 
him, 4 My Lord, who is this? Jesus answered and said, He to whom I shall dip 
bread, and give it. And Jesus dipped bread, and gave to Judas, the son of Simon 
Iscariot. 5 And after the bread, Satan entered him. And Jesus said unto him, 
What thou 6 desirest to do, hasten the doing of it. And no man of them that sat 
knew why he 7 said this unto him. And some of them thought, because Judas had 
the box, that he was bidding him buy what would be needed for the feast; or, 
that he might pay 8 something to the poor. Judas the betrayer answered and said, 
Can it be I, my 9 Master? Jesus said unto him, Thou hast said. And Judas took 
the bread straightway, and went forth without: and it was still night. 
10 And Jesus said, Now is the Son of man being glorified, and God is being 
glorified in him; and if God is glorified in him, God also will glorify him in 
him, and straightway will glorify him. 12 And while they were eating, Jesus took 
bread, and blessed, and divided; and he gave to his disciples, and said unto 
them, Take and eat; this is my body. And he Arabic, took a cup, and gave thanks, 
and blessed, and gave them, and said, Take 14, and drink of it, all of you. And 
they drank of it, all of them. And he said unto them, This is my blood, the new 
covenant, that is shed for many for the forgiveness of sins. I say unto you, I 
shall not drink henceforth of this, the juice of the vine, until the day in 
which I drink with you new wine in the kingdom of God. And thus do ye in 
remembrance of me. And Jesus said unto Simon, Simon, behold, Satan asketh that 
he may sift you like wheat: but I entreat for thee, that thou lose not thy 
faith: and do thou, at some time, turn and strengthen thy brethren. My children, 
another little while am I with you. And ye shall seek me: and as I said unto the 
Jews, Whither I go, ye cannot come; I say unto you now also. A new commandment I 
give you, that ye may love one another; and as I have loved you, so shall ye 
also love one another. By this shall every man know that ye are my disciples. if 
ye have love one to another. Simon Cephas said unto him, Our Lord, whither goest 
thou? Jesus answered and said unto him, Whither I go, thou canst not now follow 
me; but later thou shall come. 
23 Then said Jesus unto them, Ye all shall desert me this night: it is 
written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be 
scattered. But after my rising, I shall go before you into Galilee. Simon Cephas 
answered and said unto him, My Lord, if every man desert thee, I shall at no 
time desert thee. I am with thee ready for imprisonment and for death. And my 
life will I give up for thee. Arabic, Jesus said unto him, Wilt thou give up thy 
life for me? Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Thou shall to-day, during this 
night, before the cock crow twice, three times deny me, that thou knowest me 
not. But Cephas said the more, Even if it lead to death with thee, I shall not 
deny thee, my Lord. And in like manner said all the disciples also. 
Then Jesus said unto them, Let not your hearts be troubled: believe in God, 
and believe in me. The stations in my Father's house are many, else I should 
have told you. I go to prepare for you a place. And if I go to prepare for you a 
place, I shall return again, and take you unto me: and so where I am, there ye 
32, 33 shall be also. And the place that I go ye know, and the way ye know. 
Thomas said unto him, Our Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how is the 
way for us to the knowledge of that? Jesus said unto him, I am the way, and the 
truth, and the life: and no man cometh unto my Father, but through me. And if ye 
had known me, ye should have known my Father: and from henceforth ye know him, 
and have seen him. Philip said unto him, Our Lord, shew us the Father, and it 
suf- ficeth us. Jesus said unto him, Have I been all this time with you, and 
dost thou not know me, Philip? whosoever hath seen me hath seen the Father; how 
then sayest thou, Shew us the Father? Believest thou not that I am in my Father, 
and my Father in me? and the saying that I say, I say not of myself: but my 
Father who dwelleth in me, he doeth these deeds. Believe that I am in my Father, 
and my Father in me: Arabic, or else believe for the sake of the deeds. Verily, 
verily, I say unto you, Whosoever believeth in me, the deeds that I do shall he 
do also; and more than that shall he do: I go unto the Father. And what ye shall 
ask in my name, I shall do unto you, that the Father may be glorified in his 
Son. And if ye 43, ask me is in my name, I will do it. If ye love me, keep my 
commandments. 
And I will entreat of my Father, and he will send unto you another Paraclete, 
that he may be with you for ever, even the Spirit of truth: whom the world 
cannot receive; for it hath not seen him, nor known him: but ye know him; for he 
hath dwelt with you, and is in you. I will not leave you orphans: I will come 
unto you. Another little while, and the world seeth me not; but ye see me that I 
live, and ye shall live also. And in that day ye shall know that I am in my 
Father, and ye in me, and I in you. 
SECTION XLVI. 
46 1 Whosoever hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth 
me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and 
will 2 shew myself unto him. Judas (not Iscariot) said unto him, My Lord, what 
is the 3 purpose of thy intention to shew thyself to us, and not to the world? 
Jesus answered and said unto him, Whosoever loveth me will keep my word: and my 
Father will love him, and to him will we come, and make our abode with him. 4 
But he that loveth me not keepeth not my word: and this word that ye hear is not 
my word, but the Father's which sent me. 
5, 6 This have I spoken unto you, while I was yet with you. But the 
Paraclete, the Holy Spirit, whom my Father will send in my name, he will teach 
you everything, and 7 Arabic, he will bring to your remembrance all that I say 
unto you. Peace I leave you; my peace I give unto you: and not as this world 
giveth, give I unto you. 8 Let your heart not be troubled, nor fearful. Ye heard 
that I said unto you, that I go away, and come unto you. If ye loved me, ye 
would rejoice, that I go away to my 9 Father: for my Father is greater than I. 
And now I say unto you before it come to pass, that, when it cometh to pass, ye 
may believe me. Now I will not speak with you much: the Archon of the world will 
come, and he will have nothing in me: but that the world may know that I love my 
Father, and as my Father charged me, so I do. 
12 And he said unto them, When I sent you without purses, or wallets, and 
shoes, lacked ye perchance anything? They said unto him, Nothing. He said unto 
them, Henceforth, whosoever hath a purse, let him take it, and likewise the 
wallet also: and whosoever hath not a sword, shall sell his garment, and buy for 
himself a sword. I say unto you, that this scripture also must be fulfilled in 
me, that I should be reckoned with the transgressors: for all that is said of me 
is fulfilled in me. His disciples said unto him, Our Lord, lo, here are two 
swords. He said unto them, They are sufficient. Arise, let us go hence. And they 
arose, and praised, and went forth, and went, according to their custom, to the 
mount of Olives, he and his disciples. 
17 And he said unto them, I am the true vine, and my Father is the 
husbandman. Every branch that produceth not fruit in me, he taketh it: and that 
which giveth fruit, he cleanseth it, that it may give much fruit. Ye are already 
clean because of the word that I have spoken unto you. Abide in me, and I in 
you. And as the branch of the Arabic, vine cannot produce fruit of itself, if it 
be not abiding in the vine; so too ye also, if ye abide not in me. I am the 
vine, and ye are the branches: He then that abideth in me, and I in him, he 
giveth much fruit: for without me ye can- not do anything. And if a man abide 
not in me, he is cast without, like a withered branch; and it is gathered, and 
cast into the fire, that it may be burned. If ye abide in me, and my word abide 
in you, everything that ye desire to ask shall be done unto you. And herein is 
the Father glorified, that ye may give much fruit; and ye shall be my disciples. 
And as my Father loved me, I loved you also: abide in my love. If ye keep my 
commands, ye shall abide in my love; as I have kept my Father's commands, and 
abode in his love. I have spoken that unto you, that my joy may be in you, and 
your joy be fulfilled. This is my commandment, that ye love one another, as I 
loved you. And no love is greater than this, namely, that a man should give his 
life for his friends. Ye are my friends, if ye do all that I command you. I call 
you not now servants; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: my 
friends have I now called you; for everything that I heard from my Father I have 
made known unto you. Ye did not choose me, but I chose I you, and appointed you, 
that ye also should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should 33 abide; and 
that all that ye shall ask my Father in my name, he may give you. This I command 
you, that ye love one another. And if the world hate you, know that before you 
it hated me. If then ye were of the world, the world would love its own: but ye 
are not of the world: I chose you out of the world: therefore the world Arabic, 
hateth you. Remember the word that I said unto you, that no servant is greater 
than his lord. And if they persecuted me, you also will they persecute; and if 
they kept my word, your word also will they keep. But all these things will they 
do unto you for my name's sake, for they have not known him that sent me. And if 
I had not come and spoken unto them, they had not had sin: but now they have no 
excuse for their sins. Whosoever hateth me, also hateth my Father. And if I had 
not done the deeds before them that no other man did, they would not have had 
sin: but now they have seen and hated me and my Father also: that the word may 
be fulfilled that is written in their law, They hated me for nothing. But when 
the Paraclete is come, whom I will send unto you from my Father, even the Spirit 
of truth, which goeth forth from my Father, he shall bear witness of me: and ye 
also bear witness, because from the beginning ye have been with me. 
44, I have said that unto you, that ye may not stumble. And they shall put 
you out of their synagogues: and there cometh an hour when every one that 
killeth you shall think that he hath offered unto God an offering. And they will 
do that, because they do not know me, nor my Father. I have said that unto you, 
so that when its time is come, ye may remember it, that I told you. And this 
hitherto I said not unto you, because I was with you. But now I go unto him that 
sent me; and no man of you asketh me whither I go. I have said that unto you 
now, and grief hath come and taken possession of your hems. But I say the truth 
unto you; It is better for you that I go away: for if I go not away, the 
Paraclete will not come unto you; Arabic, but if I go away, I will send him unto 
you. And when he cometh, he will reprove the world for sin, and for 
righteousness, and for judgement: 52, for sin, because they have not believed in 
me; and for righteousness, because I go to my Father; and for judgement, because 
the Archon of this world hath been judged. And further have I many things to 
speak unto you, but ye cannot tarry now. Howbeit when the Spirit of truth is 
come, he will remind you of all the truth: he will say nothing from himself; but 
everything that he heareth, that shall he say: and he shall make known unto you 
the things that are to be. And he shall glorify me; for from me shall he take 
and shew you. All that my Father hath is mine: therefore said I unto you, that 
he taketh of mine, and shall shew you. 
SECTION XLVII. 
47 1 A little while, and ye shall not behold me; and a little while again, 
and ye shall 2 behold me; because I go to the Father. His disciples therefore 
said one to another, What is this that he hath said unto us, A little while, and 
ye shall not behold me; and a little while again, and ye shall behold me: and, I 
go to my Father? And they said, What is this little while that he hath said? We 
know not what he speaketh. And Jesus perceived that they were seeking to ask 
him, and said unto them, Do ye inquire among yourselves concerning this, that I 
said unto you, A little while, and ye behold me not, and a little while again, 
and ye shall behold me? Verily, verily, I say unto you, that ye shall weep and 
grieve, but the world shall rejoice: and ye shall be sorrowful, but your grief 
shall turn to joy. 
For, a woman when the time is come for her that she should bring forth, the 
arrival of the day of her bringing forth distresseth her: but whenever she hath 
brought forth a son, she remembereth not her distress, for joy at the birth of a 
man into the 7 world. And ye now also grieve: but I shall see you, and your 
hearts shall rejoice, 8 Arabic, and your joy no man taketh from you. And in that 
day ye shall ask me nothing. And verily, verily, I say unto you, All that ye ask 
my Father 9 in my name, he will give you. Hitherto ye have asked nothing in my 
name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be complete. 
10 I have spoken unto you now in aenigmas: but there will come an hour when a 
I shall not speak to you in aenigmas, but shall reveal unto you the Father 
plainly, in that day when ye shall ask in my name: and I say not unto you, that 
I shall entreat the Father for you; for the Father loveth you, because ye have 
loved me, 13 and have believed that I came forth from my Father. I came forth 
from my Father, and came into the world: and I leave the world, and go unto my 
Father. His disciples said unto him, Lo, thy speech is now plain, and thou hast 
not said one thing in an aenigma. Now, lo, we know that thou knowest everything, 
and needest not that any man should ask thee: and by this we believe that thou 
camest forth 16, from God. Jesus said unto them, Believe that an hour cometh, 
and lo, it hath come, and ye shall be scattered, every one of you to his place, 
and shall leave me alone: and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. 
This have I said unto you, that in me ye may have peace. And in the world 
trouble shall overtake you: but be of good courage; for I have overcome the 
world. 
19 This said Jesus, and lifted up his eyes unto heaven, and said, My Father, 
the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son may glorify thee: as thou gavest 
him authority over all flesh, that all that thou hast given him, he might give 
them eternal life. And this is eternal life, that they should know that thou 
alone art true God, and that he Arabic, whom thou didst send is Jesus the 
Messiah. I glorified thee in the earth, P. 179 and the work which thou gavest me 
to do I have accomplished. And now glorify thou me, O Father, beside thee, with 
that glory which I had with thee before the world was. I made known thy name to 
the men whom thou gavest me out of the world: thine they were, and thou gavest 
them to me; and they have kept 25, thy word. Now they know that all that thou 
hast given me is from thee: and the sayings which thou gavest me I have given 
unto them; and they received them, and knew of a truth that I came forth from 
thee, and believed that thou didst send me. And I ask for their sake: and my 
asking is not for the world, but for those whom thou hast given me; for they are 
thine: and all that is mine is thine, and all that is thine is mine: and I am 
glorified in them. And now I am not in the world, and they are in the world, and 
I come to thee. My holy Father, keep them in thy name which thou hast given unto 
me, that they may be one, as we are. When I was with them in the world, I kept 
them in thy name: and I kept those whom thou gavest unto me: and no man of them 
hath perished, but the son of perdition; that the scripture might be fulfilled. 
Now I come to thee: and this I say in the world, that my joy may be complete in 
them. I have given them thy word; and the world hated them, because they were 
not of the world, as I was not of the world. And I ask not this, that thou take 
them from the world, but that thou keep them from the 34, evil one. They were 
not of the world, as I was not of the world. O Father, sanctify them in thy 
truth: for thy word is truth. And as thou didst send me into the world, I 
Arabic, also send them into the world. And for their sake I sanctify myself, 
that they P. 180 also may be sanctified in the truth. Neither for these alone do 
I ask, but for 39 the sake of them that believe in me through their word; that 
they may be all one; as thou art in me, and I in thee, and so they also shall be 
one in us: that the world may believe that thou didst send me. And the glory 
which thou hast given unto me I have given unto them; that they may be one, as 
we are one; I in them, and thou in me, that they may be perfect into one; and 
that the world may know that thou didst send me, and that I loved them, as thou 
lovedst me. Father, and those whom thou hast given me, I wish that, where I am, 
they may be with me also; that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given 
me: for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world. My righteous Father, 
and the world knew thee not, but I know thee; and they knew that thou didst send 
me; and I made known unto them thy name, and will make it known to them; that 
the love wherewith thou lovedst me may be in them, and I shall be in them. 
SECTION XLVIII. 
48 1 This said Jesus, and went forth with his disciples to a place which was 
called Gethsemane, on the side that is in the plain of Kidron, the mountain, the 
place 2 in which was a garden; and he entered thither, he and his disciples. And 
Judas the 3 betrayer knew that place: for Jesus oft-times met with his disciples 
there. And when Jesus came to the place, he said to his disciples, Sit ye here, 
so that I may go and pray; 5 Arabic, and pray ye, that ye enter not into 
temptations. And he took with him Cephas and the sons of Zebedee together, James 
and John; and he began to 6 look sorrowful, and to be anxious. And he said unto 
them, My soul is distressed unto 7 death: abide ye here, and watch with me. And 
he withdrew from them a little, 8 the space of a stone's throw; and he kneeled, 
and fell on his face, and prayed, so 9 that, if it were possible, this hour 
might pass him. And he said, Father, thou art able for all things; if thou wilt, 
let this cup pass me: but let not my will be done, but let thy will be done. And 
he came to his disciples, and found them sleeping; and he said unto Cephas, 
Simon, didst thou sleep? Could ye thus not for one hour watch with me? Watch and 
pray, that ye enter not into temptations: the spirit is willing and ready, but 
the body is weak. And he went again a second time, and prayed, and said, My 
Father, if it is not possible with regard to this cup that it pass, except I 
drink it, thy will be done. And he returned again, and found his disciples 
sleeping, for their eyes were heavy from their grief and anxiety; and they knew 
not what to say to him. And he left them, and went away again, and prayed a 
third time, and said the very same word. And there appeared unto him an angel 
from heaven, encouraging him. And being afraid he prayed continuously: and his 
sweat Arabic, became like a stream of blood, and fell on the ground. Then he 
rose from his prayer, and came to his disciples, and found them sleeping. And he 
said unto them, Sleep now, and rest: the end hath arrived, and the hour hath 
come; and behold, the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Arise, 
let us go: for he hath come that betrayeth me. 
22 And while he was still speaking, came Judas the betrayer, one of the 
twelve, and with him a great multitude carrying lanterns and torches and swords 
and staves, from the chief priests and scribes and eiders of the people, and 
with him the foot- soldiers of the Romans. And Judas the betrayer gave them a 
sign, and said, He whom I shall kiss, he is he: take him with care, and lead him 
away. 
And Jesus, because he knew everything that should come upon him, went forth 
unto them. And immediately Judas the betrayer came to Jesus, and said, Peace, my 
Master; and kissed him. And Jesus said unto him, Judas, with a kiss betrayest 
thou the Son of man? Was it for that thou camest, my friend? And Jesus said to 
those that came unto him, Whom seek ye? They said unto him, Jesus the Nazarene. 
Jesus said unto them, I am he. And Judas the betrayer also was standing with 
them. And when Jesus said unto them, I am he, they retreated backward, and fell 
to the ground. And Jesus asked them again, Whom seek ye? They answered, Jesus 
the Nazarene. Jesus said unto them, I told you that I am he: and if ye seek me, 
let these go away: that the word might be fulfilled which he spake, Of those 
Arabic whom thou hast given me I lost not even one. Then came those that were 
with Judas, and seized Jesus, and took him. 
34 And when his disciples saw what happened, they said, Our Lord, shall we 
smite them with swords? And Simon Cephas had a sword, and he drew it, and struck 
the servant of the chief priest, and cut off his right ear. And the name of that 
ser- vant was Malchus. Jesus said unto Cephas, The cup which my Father hath 
given me, shall I not drink it? Put the sword into its sheath: for all that take 
with the sword shall die by the sword. Thinkest thou that I am not able to ask 
of my Father, and he shall now raise up for me more than twelve tribes of 
angels? Then how should the scriptures which were spoken be fulfilled, that thus 
it must be? Your leave in this. And he touched the ear of him that was struck, 
and healed it. And in that hour Jesus said to the multitudes, As they come out 
against a thief are ye come out against me with swords and staves to take me? 
Daily was I with you in the temple sitting teaching, and ye took me not: but 
this is your hour, and the power of darkness. And that was, that the scriptures 
of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then the disciples all left him, and fled. 
And the footsoldiers and the officers and the soldiers of the Jews seized Jesus, 
and came. And a certain young man followed him, and he was wrapped in a towel, 
naked: and they seized him; so he Arabic, left the towel, and fled naked. Then 
they took Jesus, and bound him, and brought him to Annas first; because he was 
the father in law of Caiaphas, who was chief priest that year. And Caiaphas was 
he that counselled the Jews, that it was necessary that one man should die 
instead of the people. 
49 And Simon Cephas and one of the other disciples followed Jesus. And the 
chief priest knew that disciple, and he entered with Jesus into the court; but 
Simon was standing without at the door. And that other disciple, whom the chief 
priest knew, went out and spake unto her that kept the door, and she brought 
Simon in. And when the maid that kept the door saw Simon, she looked stedfastly 
at him, and said unto him, Art not thou also one of the disciples of this man, I 
mean Jesus the Nazarene? But he denied, and said, Woman, I know him not, neither 
know I even what thou sayest. And the servants and the soldiers rose, and made a 
fire in the middle of the court, that they might warm themselves; for it was 
cold. And when the fire burned up, they sat down around it. And Simon also came, 
and sat down with them to warm himself, that he might see the end of what should 
happen. 
SECTION XLIX. 
49 2 And the chief priest asked Jesus about his disciples, and about his 
doctrine. And Jesus said unto him, I was speaking openly to the people; and I 
ever taught in the synagogue, and in the temple, where all the Jews gather; and 
I have spoken nothing in 3 Arabic, secret. Why askest thou me? ask those that 
have heard, what I spake unto 4 them: for they know all that I said. And when he 
had said that, one of the soldiers which were standing there struck the cheek of 
Jesus, and said unto him, Dost thou thus answer the chief priest? Jesus answered 
and said unto him, If I 6 have spoken evil, bear witness of evil: but if well, 
why didst thou smite me? And Annas sent Jesus bound unto Caiaphas the chief 
priest. 
7 And when Jesus went out, Simon Cephas was standing in the outer court warm- 
8 ing himself. And that maid saw him again, and began to say to those that stood 
9 by, This man also was there with Jesus the Nazarene. And those that stood by 
came forward and said to Cephas, Truly thou art one of his disciples. And he 
denied again with an oath, I know not the man. And after a little one of the 
servants of the chief priest, the kinsman of him whose ear Simon cut off, saw 
him; and he disputed and said, Truly this matt was with him: and he also is a 
Galilaean; and his speech resembles. And he said unto Simon, Did not I see thee 
with him in the garden? Then began Simon to curse, and to swear, I know not this 
man whom ye have mentioned. And immediately, while he was speaking, the cock 
crew twice. And in that hour Jesus turned, he being without, and looked 
stedfastly at Cephas. And Simon remembered the word of our Lord, which he said 
unto him, 17, Before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. And Simon 
went forth without, and wept bitterly. 
19 Arabic, And when the morning approached, the servants of all the chief 
priests and the scribes and the elders of the people and all the multitude 
assembled, 20, and made a plot; and they took counsel against Jesus to put him 
to death. And they sought false witnesses who should witness against him, that 
they might put him to 22, death, and they found not; but many false witnesses 
came, but their witness did not 24, agree. But at last there came two lying 
witnesses, and said, We heard him say, I will destroy this temple of God that is 
made with hands, and will build another not 26, made with hands after three 
days. And not even so did their witness agree. But Jesus was silent. And the 
chief priest rose in the midst, and asked Jesus, and said, Answerest thou not a 
word concerning anything? what do these witness against 29, thee? But Jesus was 
silent, and answered him nothing. And they took him up into their assembly, and 
said unto him, If thou art the Messiah, tell us. He said unto them, If I tell 
you, ye will not believe me: and if I ask you, ye will not answer me a word, nor 
let me go. And the chief priest answered and said unto him, I adjure thee by the 
living God, that thou tell us whether thou art the Messiah, the 34, Son of the 
living God. Jesus said unto him, Thou hast said that I am he. They all said unto 
him, Then thou art now the Son of God? Jesus said, Ye have said that I am he. I 
say unto you, that henceforth ye shall see the Son of man sitting Arabic, at the 
right hand of power, and coming on the clouds of heaven. Then the chief priest 
rent his tunic, and said, He hath blasphemed. And they all said, Why should we 
seek now witnesses? we have heard now the blasphemy from his mouth. 39, What 
then think ye? They all answered and said, He is worthy of death. Then some of 
them drew near, and spat in his face, and struck him, and scoffed at him. And 
the soldiers struck him on his cheeks, and said, Prophesy unto us, thou Mes- 
siah: who is he that struck thee? And many other things spake they falsely, and 
said against him. 
43 And all of their assembly arose, and took Jesus, and brought him bound to 
the praetorium, and delivered him up to Pilate the judge; but they entered not 
into the praetorium, that they might not be defiled when they should eat the 
passover. And Jesus stood before the judge. And Pilate went forth unto them 
without, and said unto them, What accusation have ye against this man? They 
answered and said unto him, If he had not been doing evils, neither should we 
have delivered him up unto thee. We found this man leading our people astray, 
and restraining from giving tribute to Caesar, and saying of himself that he is 
the King, the Messiah. Pilate said unto them, Then take ye him, and judge him 
according to your law. 
The Jews said unto him, We have no authority to put a man to death: that the 
word might be fulfilled, which Jesus spake, when he made known by what manner of 
death he was to die. And Pilate entered into the praetorium, and called Jesus, 
and said unto him, Art St thou the King of the Jews? Jesus said unto him, Of 
thyself saidst thou this, or did others tell it thee concerning me? Pilate said 
unto him, Am I, forsooth, a Jew? The sons of thy nation and the chief priests 
delivered thee unto me: what hast thou done? Jesus said unto him, My kingdom is 
not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants 
fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews: now my kingdom is not from 
hence. Pilate said unto him, Then thou art a king? Jesus said unto him, Thou 
hast said that I am a king. And for this was I born, and for this came I into 
the world, that I should bear witness 55 of the truth. And every one that is of 
the truth heareth my voice. Pilate said unto him, And what is the truth? And 
when he said that, he went out again unto the Jews. 
SECTION L. 
50 1 And Pilate said unto the chief priests and the multitude, I have not 
found 2 against this man anything. But they cried out and said, He hath 
disquieted our people with his teaching in all Judaea, and he began from Galilee 
and unto this 3 place. And Pilate, when he heard the name of Galilee, asked, Is 
this man a Gali- 4 laean? And when he learned that he was under the jurisdiction 
of Herod, he sent him to Herod: for he was in Jerusalem in those days. 
5 And Herod, when he saw Jesus, rejoiced exceedingly: for he had desired to 
see him for a long time, because he had heard regarding him many things; and he 
counted on 6 Arabic, seeing some sign from him. And he questioned him with many 
words; but 7 Jesus answered him not a word. And the scribes and chief priests 
were 8 standing by, and they accused him vehemently. And Herod scoffed at him, 
he and his servants; and when he had scoffed at him, he clothed him in robes of 
scarlet, 9 and sent him to Pilate. And on that day Pilate and Herod became 
friends, there having been enmity between them before that. 
10, And Pilate called the chief priests and the rulers of the people, and 
said unto them, Ye brought unto me this man, as the perverter of your people: 
and I have tried him before you, and have not found in this man any cause of all 
that ye seek against him: nor yet Herod: for I sent him unto him; and he hath 
done nothing for which he should deserve death. So now I will chastise him, and 
let 14, him go. The multitude all cried out and said, Take him from us, take 
him. And the chief priests and the eiders accused him of many things. And during 
their accusation he answered not a word. Then Pilate said unto him, Hearest thou 
not how many things they witness against thee? And he answered him not, not even 
one word: and Pilate marvelled at that. And when the judge sat on his tribune, 
his wife sent unto him, and said unto him, See that thou have nothing to do with 
that righteous man: for I have suffered much in my dream to-day because of him. 
20 And at every feast the custom of the judge was to release to the people 
one prisoner, him whom they would. And there was in their prison a well-known 
pris- 22, oner, called Barabbas. And when they assembled, Pilate said unto them, 
Ye have a custom, that I should release unto you a prisoner at the passover: 
will ye that I 24 release unto you the King of the Jews? And they all cried out 
and said, Release not Arabic, unto us this man, but release unto us Barabbas. 
And this Barabbas was a robber, who for sedition and murder, which was in the 
city, was cast into the prison. And all the people cried out and began to ask 
him to do as the custom was that he should do with them. And Pilate answered and 
said unto them, Whom will ye that I release unto you? Barabbas, or Jesus which 
is called the Messiah, the King of the Jews? For Pilate knew that envy had moved 
them to deliver him up. And the chief priests and the elders asked the 
multitudes to deliver Barabbas, and to destroy Jesus. The judge answered and 
said unto them, Whom of the two will ye that I release unto you? They said, 
Barabbas. Pilate said unto them, And Jesus which is called the Messiah, what 
shall I do with him? They all cried out and said, Crucify him. And Pilate spake 
to them again, for he desired to release Jesus; but they cried out and said, 
Crucify him, crucify him, and release unto us Barabbas. And Pilate said unto 
them a third time, What evil hath this man done? I have not found in him any 
cause to necessitate death: I will chastise him and let him go. But they 
increased in importunity with a loud voice, and asked him to crucify him. And 
their voice, and the voice of the chief priests, prevailed. Then Pilate released 
unto them that one who was cast into prison for sedition and murder, Barabbas, 
whom they asked for: and he scourged Jesus with whips. Then the footsoldiers of 
the judge took Jesus, and went into the praetorium, and Arabic, gathered unto 
him all of the footsoldiers. And they stripped him, and put on him a scarlet 
cloak. And they clothed him in garments of purple, and plaited a crown of 
thorns, and placed it on his head, and a reed in his right hand; and while they 
mocked at him and laughed, they fell down on their knees before him, and bowed 
down to him, and said, Hail, King of the Jews! And they spat in his face, and 
took the reed from his hand, and struck him on his head, and smote his cheeks. 
And Pilate went forth without again, and said unto the Jews, I bring him forth 
to you, that ye may know that I do not find, in examining him, even one crime. 
And Jesus went forth without, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple 
garments. Pilate said unto them, Behold, the man! And when the chief priests and 
the soldiers saw him, they cried out and said, Crucify him, crucify him. Pilate 
said unto them, Take him yourselves, and crucify him: for I find not a cause 
against him. The Jews said unto him, We have a law, and according to our law he 
deserves death, because he made himself the Son of God. And when Pilate heard 
this word, his fear increased; and he entered again into the porch, and said to 
Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus answered him not a word. Pilate said unto him, 
Speakest thou not unto me? knowest thou not that I have authority to release 
thee, and have authority to crucify thee? Jesus said unto him, Thou hast not any 
authority over me, if thou wert not given it from above: therefore the sin of 
him that delivered me up unto thee is greater than thy sin. And for this word 
Pilate wished to release him: but the Jews cried out, If thou let him go, thou 
art not a friend of Caesar: for every one that maketh himself a king is against 
Caesar. 
SECTION LI. 
51 1 Arabic, And when Pilate heard this saying, he took Jesus out, and sat on 
the tribune in the place which was called the pavement of stones, but in the He- 
2 brew called Gabbatha. And that day was the Friday of the passover: and it had 
reached 3 about the sixth hour. And he said to the Jews, Behold, your King! And 
they cried out, Take him, take him, crucify him, crucify him. Pilate said unto 
them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests said unto him, We have no 
king except 4 Caesar. And Pilate, when he saw it, and he was gaining nothing, 
but the tumult was increasing, took water, and washed his hands before the 
multitude, and said, I 5 am innocent of the blood of this innocent man: ye shall 
know. And all the people 6 answered and said, His blood be on us, and on our 
children. Then Pilate commanded to grant them their request; and delivered up 
Jesus to be crucified, according to their wish. 
7 Then Judas the betrayer, when he saw Jesus wronged, went and returned the 8 
thirty pieces of money to the chief priests and the eiders, and said, I have 
sinned in my betraying innocent blood. And they said unto him, And we, what must 
we do? 9 know thou. And he threw down the money in the temple, and departed; and 
he went away and hanged himself. And the chief priests took the money, and said, 
We have not authority to cast it into the place of the offering, for it is the 
price of blood. And they took counsel, and bought with it the plain of the 
potter, for the burial of strangers. Therefore that plain was called, The field 
of blood, unto 13 Arabic, this day. Therein was fulfilled the saying in the 
prophet which said, I took thirty pieces of money, the price of the precious 
one, which was fixed by the children of Israel; and I paid them for the plain of 
the potter, as the Lord commanded me. 
15 And the Jews took Jesus, and went away to crucify him. And when he bare 
his cross and went out, they stripped him of those purple and scarlet garments 
which he had on, and put on him his own garments. And while they were going with 
him, they found a man, a Cyrenian, coming from the country, named Simon, the 
father of Alexander and Rufus: and they compelled this man to bear the cross of 
Jesus. And they took the cross and laid it upon him, that he might bear it, and 
come after Jesus; and Jesus went, and his cross behind him. 
19 And there followed him much people, and women which were lamenting and 
raving. But Jesus turned unto them and said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not 
for me: weep for yourselves, and for your children. Days are coming, when they 
shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the womb's that bare not, and the breasts 
that gave not suck. Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; 
and to the hills, Cover us. For if they do so in the green tree, what shall be 
in the dry? 
24 And they brought with Jesus two others of the malefactors, to be put to 
death. 
25 And when they came unto a certain place called The skull, and called in 
the Hebrew Golgotha, they crucified him there: they crucified with him these two 
malefactors, one on his right, and the other on his left. And the scripture was 
Arabic, fulfilled, which saith, He was numbered with the transgressors. And they 
gave him to drink wine and myrrh, and vinegar which had been mixed with the 
myrrh; and he tasted, and would not drink; and he received it not. 
28 And the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments, and 
cast lots for them in four parts, to every party of the soldiers a part; and his 
tunic was without sewing, from the top woven throughout. And they said one to 
another, Let us not rend it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be: and the 
scripture was fulfilled, which saith, They divided my garments among them, And 
cast the lot for my vesture. 
30, This the soldiers did. And they sat and guarded him there. And Pilate 
wrote on a tablet the cause of his death, and put it on the wood of the cross 
above his head. And there was written upon it thus: THIS IS JESUS THE NAZARENE 
THE NAZARENE, THE KING OF THE Jews. And this tablet read many of the Jews: for 
the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city: and it was written in 
Hebrew and Greek and Latin. And the chief priests said unto Pilate, Write not, 
The King of the Jews; but, He it is that said, I am the King of the Jews. Pilate 
said unto them, What hath been written hath been written. And the people were 
standing beholding; and they that passed by were reviling him, and shaking their 
heads, and saying, Thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three 
days, save thyself if thou art the Son of God, and come down from the cross. And 
in like manner the chief priests and the Arabic, scribes and the elders and the 
Pharisees derided him, and laughed one with 38, another, and said, The saviour 
of others cannot save himself. If he is the Messiah, the chosen of God, and the 
King of Israel, let him come down now from the cross, that we may see, and 
believe in him. He that relieth on God--let him deliver him now, if he is 
pleased with him: for he said, I am the Son of God. And the soldiers also 
scoffed at him in that they came near unto him, and brought him vinegar, and 
said unto him, If thou art the King of the Jews, save thyself. And likewise the 
two robbers also that were crucified with him reproached him. And one of those 
two malefactors who were crucified with him reviled him, and said, If thou art 
the Messiah, save thyself, and save us also. But his comrade rebuked him, and 
said, Dost thou not even fear God, being thyself also in this condemnation? And 
we with justice, and as we deserved, and according to our deed, have we been 
rewarded: but this man hath not done anything unlawful. And he said unto Jesus, 
Remember me, my Lord, when thou comest in thy kingdom. Jesus said unto him, 
Verily I say unto thee, To-day shalt thou be with me in Paradise. And there 
stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary that was 
related to Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. And Jesus saw his mother, and that 
disciple whom he loved standing by; and he said to his mother, 51 Woman, behold, 
thy son! And he said to that disciple, Behold, thy mother! And from that hour 
that disciple took her unto himself. 
52 Arabic, And from the sixth hour darkness was on all the land unto the 
ninth hour, and the sun became dark. And at the ninth hour Jesus cried out with 
a loud voice, and said, Yail, Yaili, why hast thou forsaken me? which is, My 
God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And some of those that stood there, when 
they heard, said, This man called Elijah. 
SECTION LII. 
52 1 And after that, Jesus knew that all things were finished; and that the 
scripture 2 might be accomplished, he said, I thirst. And there was set a vessel 
full of vinegar: and in that hour one of them hasted, and took a sponge, and 
filled it with that 3 vinegar, and fastened it on a reed, and brought it near 
his mouth to give him a 4 drink. And when Jesus had taken that vinegar, he said, 
Everything is finished. 5 But the rest said, Let be, that we may see whether 
Elijah cometh to save him. 7 And Jesus said, My Father, forgive them; for they 
know not what they do. And Jesus cried again with a loud voice, and said, My 
Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. He said that, and bowed his head, 
and gave up his spirit. 8 And immediately the face of the door of the temple was 
rent into two parts from 9 top to bottom; and the earth was shaken; and the 
stones were split to pieces; and the Arabic, tombs were opened; and the bodies 
of many saints which slept, arose and p. 197 came forth; and after his 
resurrection they entered into the holy city and appeared unto many. And the 
officer of the footsoldiers, and they that were with him who were guarding 
Jesus, when they saw the earthquake, and the things which came to pass, feared 
greatly, and praised God, and said, This man was righteous; and, Truly he was 
the Son of God. And all the multitudes that were come together to the sight, 
when they saw what came to pass, returned and smote upon their breasts. 
And the Jews, because of the Friday, said, Let these bodies not remain on 
their crosses, because it is the morning of the sabbath (for that sabbath was a 
great day); and they asked of Pilate that they might break the legs of those 
that were crucified, and take them down. And the soldiers came, and brake the 
legs of the first, and that other which was crucified with him: but when they 
came to Jesus, they saw that he had died before, so they brake not his legs: but 
one of the soldiers pierced him in his side with a spear, and immediately there 
came forth blood and water. And he that hath seen hath borne witness, and his 
witness is true: and he 19 knoweth that he hath said the truth, that ye also may 
believe. This he did, that the scripture might be fulfiled, which saith, A bone 
shall not be broken in him; and the scripture also which saith, Let them look 
upon him whom they pierced. 
21 And there were in the distance all the acquaintance of Jesus standing, and 
the women that came with him from Galilee, those that followed him and 
ministered. One of them was Mary Magdalene; and Mary the mother of James the 
little and Arabic Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee, and Salome, and 
many others which came up with him unto Jerusalem; and they saw that. 
24 And when the evening of the Friday was come, because of the entering of 
the sabbath, there came a rich man, a noble of Ramah, a city of Judah, named 
Joseph, and he was a good man and upright; and he was a disciple of Jesus, but 
was concealing himself for fear of the Jews. And he did not agree with the 
accusers 27 in their desire and their deeds: and he was looking for the kingdom 
of God. And this man went boldly, and entered in unto Pilate, and asked of him 
the body of Jesus. And Pilate wondered how he had died already: and he called 
the officer of the footsoldiers, and asked him concerning his death before the 
time. And when he knew, he commanded him to deliver up his body unto Joseph. And 
Joseph bought for him a winding cloth of pure linen, and took down the body of 
Jesus, and wound it in they came and took it. And there came unto him Nicodemus 
also, who of old came unto Jesus by night; and he brought with him perfume of 
myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds. And they took the body of Jesus, and 
wound it in the linen and the perfume, as was the custom of the Jews to bury. 
33 And there was in the place where Jesus was crucified a garden; and in that 
garden a new tomb cut out in a rock? wherein was never man yet laid. And they 
left Jesus there because the sabbath had come in, and because the tomb was near. 
And they pushed a great stone, and thrust n it against the door of the 
sepulchre, and went away. And Mary Magdalene and Mary that was related to Joses 
came to Arabic the sepulchre after them, and sat opposite the sepulchre, and saw 
the body, how they took it in and laid it there. And they returned, and ointment 
and perfume, and prepared it, that they might come and anoint him. And on the 
day which was the sabbath day they desisted according to the command. 
40, And the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered unto Pilate, and said 
unto him, Our lord, we remember that that misleader said, while he was alive, 
After three days I rise. And now send beforehand and guard the tomb until the 
third day, lest his disciples come and steal him by night, and they will say 
unto the people that he is risen from the dead: and the last error shall be 
worse than the first. He said unto them, And have ye not guards? go, and take 
precautions as ye know how. And they went, and set guards at the tomb, and 
sealed that stone, with the guards. 
45 And in the evening of the sabbath, which is the morning of the first day, 
and in the dawning while the darkness yet remained, came Mary Magdalene and the 
other Mary and other women to see the tomb. They brought with them the perfume 
which they had prepared, and said among themselves, Who is it that will remove 
for us the stone from the door of the tomb? for it was very great. And when they 
said thus, there occurred a great earthquake; and an angel came down from 
heaven, and came and removed the stone from the door. And they came and found 
the stone removed from the sepulchre, and the angel sitting upon the stone. And 
his appearance was as the lightning, and his raiment white as the snow: and for 
fear of him the guards were troubled, and became as dead men. And when he went 
away, the women entered into the sepulchre; and they found Arabic not the body 
of Jesus. And they saw there a young man sitting on the right, strayed in a 
white garment; and they were amazed. And the angel answered and said unto the 
women, Fear ye not: for I know that ye seek Jesus the Nazarene, who hath been 
crucified. He is not here; but he is risen, as he said. Come and see the place 
where our Lord lay. 
SECTION LIII. 
53 1 And while they marvelled at that, behold, two men standing above them, 
their 2 raiment shining: and they were seized with fright, and bowed down their 
face to 3 the earth: and they said unto them, Why seek ye the living one with 
the dead? He is not here; he is risen: remember what he was speaking unto you 
while he was in 4 Galilee, and saying, The Son of man is to be delivered up into 
the hands of sinners, 5 and to be crucified, and on the third day to rise. But 
go in haste, and say to his disciples and to Cephas, He is risen from among the 
dead; and lo, he goeth before 6 you into Galilee; and there ye shall see him, 
where he said unto you: lo, I have 7 told you. And they remembered his sayings; 
and they departed in haste from the 8 tomb with joy and great fear, and hastened 
and went; and perplexity and fear 9 encompassed them; and they told no man 
anything, for they were afraid. And Mary hastened, and came to Simon Cephas, and 
to that other disciple whom Jesus loved, and said unto them, They have taken our 
Lord from the sepulchre, and I know not where they have laid him. And Simon went 
out, and that other disciple, and came to the sepulchre. And they hastened both 
together: and that disciple outran Simon, and came first to the sepulchre; and 
he looked down, and saw the linen laid; but he went not in. And Simon came after 
him, and entered into the Arabic, sepulchre, and saw the linen laid; and the 
scarf with which his head was bound was not with the linen, but wrapped and laid 
aside in a certain place. Then entered that disciple which came first to the 
sepulchre, and saw, and believed. And they knew not yet from the scriptures that 
the Messiah was to rise from among the dead. And those two disciples went to 
their place. 
18 But Mary remained at the tomb weeping: and while she wept, she looked down 
into the tomb; and she saw two angels sitting in white raiment, one of them 
toward his pillow, and the other toward his feet, where the body of Jesus had 
been laid. And they said unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She said unto them, 
They have taken my Lord, and I know not where they have left him. She said that, 
and turned behind her, and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus. 
Jesus said unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou? And she 
supposed him to be the gardener, and said, My lord, if thou hast taken him, tell 
me where thou hast laid him, that I may go and take him Jesus said unto her, 
Mary. She turned, and said unto him in Hebrew, Rabboni; which is, being 
interpreted, Teacher. Jesus said unto her, Touch me not; for I have not ascended 
yet unto my Father: go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my 
Father and your Father, and my God and your God. 
25 And on the First-day on which he rose, he appeared first unto Mary 
Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons. And some of those guards came 
to the city, and informed the chief priests of Arabic, all that had happened. 
And they assembled with the elders, and took counsel; and they gave money, not a 
little, to the guards, and said unto them, Say ye, His disciples came and stole 
him by night, while we were sleeping. 
29 And if the judge hear that, we will make a plea with him, and free you of 
blame. And they, when they took the money, did according to what they taught 
them. And this word spread among the Jews unto this day. 
31 And then came Mary Magdalene, and announced to the disciples that she had 
seen our Lord, and that he had said that unto her. 
32 And while the first women were going in the way to inform his disciples, 
Jesus met them, and said unto them, Peace unto you. And they came and took hold 
of his feet, and worshipped him. Then said Jesus unto them, Fear not: but go and 
say to my brethren that they depart into Galilee, and there they shall see me. 
And those women returned, and told all that to the eleven, and to the rest of 
the disciples; and to those that had been with him, for they were saddened and 
weeping. And those were Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary the mother of 
James, and the rest who were with them: and they were those that told the 
apostles. And they, when they heard them say that he was alive and had appeared 
unto them, did not believe them: and these sayings were before their eyes as the 
sayings of madness. Arabic, And after that, he appeared to two of them, on that 
day, and while they were going to the village which was named Emmaus, and whose 
distance from Jerusalem was sixty furlongs. And they were talking the one of 
them with the 41 other of all the things which had happened. And during the time 
of their talking and inquiring with one another, Jesus came and reached them, 
and walked with them. But their eyes were veiled that they should not know him. 
And he said unto them, What are these sayings which ye address the one of you to 
the other, as ye walk and are sad? One of them, whose name was Cleopas, answered 
and said unto him, Art thou perchance alone a stranger to Jerusalem, since thou 
knowest not what was in it in these days? He said unto them, What was? They said 
unto him, Concerning Jesus, he who was from Nazareth, a man who was a prophet, 
and powerful in speech and deeds before God and before all the people: and the 
chief priests and the elders delivered him up to the sentence of death, and 
crucified him. But we supposed that he was the one who was to deliver Israel. 
And since all these things happened there have passed three days. But certain 
women of us also informed us that they had come to the sepulchre; and when they 
found not his body, they came and told us that they had seen there the angels, 
and they said concerning him that he was alive. And some of us also went to the 
sepulchre, and found the matter as the women had said: only they saw him not. 
Then said Jesus unto them, Ye lacking in discernment, and heavy in heart to 
believe! Was it not in all the sayings of the prophets that the Messiah was to 
suffer these things, and to Arabic, enter into his glory? And he began from 
Moses and from all the prophets, and interpreted to them concerning himself from 
all the scriptures. And they drew near unto the village, whither they were 
going: and he was leading them to imagine that he was as if going to a distant 
region. And they pressed him, and said unto him, Abide with us: for the day hath 
declined now to the darkness. And he went in to abide with them. And when he sat 
with them, he took bread, and blessed, and brake, and gave to them. And 
straightway their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he was taken away 
from them. And they said the one to the other, Was not our heart heavy within 
us, while he was speaking to us in the way, and interpreting to us the 
scriptures? 
59 And they rose in that hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the 
eleven gathered, and those that were with them, saying, Truly our Lord is risen, 
and hath appeared to Simon. And they related what happened in the way, and how 
they knew him when he brake the bread. Neither believed they that also. 
SECTION LIV. 
54 1 And while they talked together, the evening of that day arrived which 
was the First-day; and the doors were shut where the disciples were, because of 
the fear of the 2 Jews; and Jesus came and stood among them, and said unto them, 
Peace be with you: I am he; fear not. But they were agitated, and became afraid, 
and supposed that they 3 saw a spirit. Jesus said unto them, Why are ye 
agitated? and why do thoughts rise 4 Arabic, in your hearts? See my hands and my 
feet, that I am he: feel me, and know that a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as 
ye see me having that. 5 And when he had said this, he shewed them his hands and 
his feet and his side. 6 And they were until this time unbelieving, from their 
joy and their wonder. He 7 said unto them, Have ye anything here to eat? And 
they gave him a portion of broiled fish and of honey. And he took it, and ate 
before them. 8 And he said unto them, These are the sayings which I spake unto 
you, while I was with you, that everything must be fulfilled, which is written 
in the law of 9 Moses, and the prophets, and the psalms, concerning me. Then 
opened he their heart, that they might understand the scriptures; and he said 
unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it is necessary that the Messiah suffer, 
and rise from among the dead on the third day; and that repentance unto the 
forgiveness of sins be preached in his name among all the peoples; and the 
beginning shall be from Jerusalem. And ye shall be witnesses of that. And I send 
unto you the promise of my Father. And when the disciples heard that, they were 
glad. And Jesus said unto them again, Peace be with you: as my Father hath sent 
me, I also send you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and said 
unto them, Receive ye the Holy Spirit: 16 and if ye forgive sins to any man, 
they shall be forgiven him; and if ye retain them against any man, they shall be 
retained. 
17 But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Thama, was not there with the 
disciples when Jesus came. The disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen 
our Lord. But he said unto them, If I do not see in his hands the places of the 
nails, and put on them my fingers, and pass my hand over his side, I will not 
believe. 
19 And after eight days, on the next First-day, the disciples were assembled 
again within, and Thomas with them. And Jesus came, the doors being shut, and 
stood Arabic, in the midst, and said unto them, Peace be with you. And he said 
to Thomas, Bring hither thy finger, and behold my hands; and bring hither thy 
hand, and spread it on my side: and be not unbelieving, but believing. Thomas 
answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God. Jesus said unto him, Now since 
thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen me, 
and have believed. 
23 And many other signs did Jesus before his disciples, and they are they 
which are not written in this book: but these that are written also are that ye 
may believe in Jesus the Messiah, the Son of God; and that when ye have 
believed, ye may have in his name eternal life. And after that, Jesus shewed 
himself again to his disciples at the sea of Tiberias; and he shewed himself 
unto them thus. And there were together Simon Cephas, and Thomas which was 
called Twin, and Nathanael who was of Cana of Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, 
and two other of the disciples. Simon Cephas said unto them, I go to catch fish. 
They said unto him, And we also come with thee. And they went forth, and went up 
into the boat; and in that night they caught nothing. And when the morning 
arrived, Jesus stood on the shore of the sea: but the disciples knew not that it 
was Jesus. And Jesus said unto them, Children, have ye anything to eat? They 
said unto him, No. He said unto them, Cast your net from the right side of the 
boat, and ye shall find. And they threw, and they were not able to draw the net 
for the abundance of the fish that were come into it. And that disciple whom 
Jesus loved said to Cephas, This is our Lord. And Simon, when he heard that it 
was our Lord, took his tunic, and girded it on his waist (for he was naked), and 
cast himself into the sea to come to Jesus. But some others of the disciples 
came in the boat (and they were not far from the land, but about two Arabic, 
hundred cubits), and drew that net of fish. And when they went up on the land, 
they saw live coals laid, and fish laid thereon, and bread. And Jesus said unto 
them, Bring of this fish which ye have now caught. Simon Cephas therefore went 
up, and dragged the net to the land, full of great fish, a hundred and 
fifty-three fishes: and with all this weight that net was not rent. And Jesus 
said unto them,. Come and sit down. And no man of the disciples dared to ask him 
who he was, for they knew that it was our Lord. But he did not appear to them in 
his own 37, form. And Jesus came, and took bread and fish, and gave unto them. 
This is the third time that Jesus appeared to his disciples, when he had risen 
from among the dead. 
39 And when they had breakfasted, Jesus said to Simon Cephas, Simon, son of 
Jonah, lovest thou me more than these? He said unto him, Yea, my Lord; thou 
knowest that I love thee. Jesus said unto him, Feed for me my lambs. He said 
unto him again a second time, Simon, son of Jonah, lovest thou me? He said unto 
him, Yea, my Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He said unto him, Feed for me 
my sheep. He said unto him again the third time, Simon, son of Jonah, lovest 
thou me? And it grieved Cephas that he said unto him three times, Lovest thou 
me? He said unto him, My Lord, thou knowest everything; thou knowest that I love 
thee. Jesus said unto him, Feed for me my sheep. Verily, verily, I say unto 
thee, When thou wast a child, thou didst gird thy waist for thyself, and go 
whither Arabic, thou wouldest: but when thou shall be old, thou shalt stretch 
out thy hands, and another shall gird thy waist, and take thee whither thou 
wouldest not. He said that to him to explain by what death he was to glorify 
God. And when he had said that, he said unto him, Come after me. And Simon 
Cephas turned, and saw that disciple whom Jesus loved following him; he which at 
the supper leaned on Jesus' breast, and said, My Lord, who is it that betrayeth 
thee? When therefore Cephas saw him, he said to Jesus, My Lord, and this man, 
what shall be in his case? Jesus said unto him, If I will that this man remain 
until I come, what is 47 that to thee? follow thou me. And this word spread 
among the brethren, that that disciple should not die: but Jesus said not that 
he should not die; but, If I will that this man remain until I come, what is 
that to thee? 
48 This is the disciple which bare witness of that, and wrote it: and we know 
that his witness is true. 
SECTION LV. 
55 1 But the eleven disciples went into Galilee, to the mountain s where 
Jesus had 2 appointed them. And when they saw him, they worshipped him: but 
there were of 3 them who doubted. And while they sat there he appeared to them 
again, and upbraided them for their lack of faith and the hardness of their 
hearts, those that saw him when he was risen, and believed not. 4 Arabic, Then 
said Jesus unto them, I have been given all authority in heaven 5 and earth; and 
as my Father hath sent me, so I also send you. Go now into 6 all the world, and 
preach my gospel in all the creation; and teach all the peoples, and 7 baptize 
them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit; and teach them 
to keep all whatsoever I commanded you: and lo, I am with you all the days, unto 
8 the end of the world. For whosoever believeth and is baptized shall be saved; 
but 9 whosoever believeth not shall be rejected. And the signs which shall 
attend those that believe in me are these: that they shall cast out devils in my 
name; and they shall speak with new tongues; and they shall take up serpents, 
and if they drink deadly poison, it shall not injure them; and they shall lay 
their hands on the diseased, and they shall be healed. But ye, abide in the city 
of Jerusalem, until ye be clothed with power from on high. 
12 And our Lord Jesus, after speaking to them, took them out to Bethany: and 
he lifted up his hands, and blessed them. And while he blessed them, he was 
separated from them, and ascended into heaven, and sat down at the right hand of 
God. And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy: and at 
all times they were in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen. 
16 And from thence they went forth, and preached in every place; and our Lord 
helped them, and confirmed their sayings by the signs which they did. 
17 And here are also many other things which Jesus did, which if they were 
written every one of them, not even the world, according to my opinion, would 
contain the books which should be written. 
SUBSCRIPTIONS 
I. IN BORGIAN MS 
Here endeth the Gospel which Tatianus compiled and named Diatessaron, i.e., 
The Fourfold, a compilation from the four Gospels of the holy Apostles, the 
excellent Evangelists (peace be upon them). It was translated by the excellent 
and learned priest, Abu'l Faraj 'Abdulla ibn-at-Tayyib (may God grant him 
favour), from Syriac into Arabic, from an exemplar written by 'Isa ibn-'Ali 
al-Motatabbib, pupil of Honain ibn-Ishak (God have mercy on them both). Amen. 
2. IN VATICAN MS. 
Here endeth, by the help of God, the holy Gospel that Titianus compiled from 
the four Gospels, which is known as Diatessaron. And praise be to God, as he is 
entitled to it and lord of it! And to him be the glory for ever. 


