
Didache












The DidacheThe Lord's Teaching Through the Twelve Apostles to the 
Nations.
Chapter 1. The Two Ways and the First Commandment. There are two ways, 
one of life and one of death, but a great difference between the two ways. The 
way of life, then, is this: First, you shall love God who made you; second, 
love your neighbor as yourself, and do not do to another what you would not want 
done to you. And of these sayings the teaching is this: Bless those who curse 
you, and pray for your enemies, and fast for those who persecute you. For what 
reward is there for loving those who love you? Do not the Gentiles do the same? 
But love those who hate you, and you shall not have an enemy. Abstain from 
fleshly and worldly lusts. If someone strikes your right cheek, turn to him the 
other also, and you shall be perfect. If someone impresses you for one mile, go 
with him two. If someone takes your cloak, give him also your coat. If someone 
takes from you what is yours, ask it not back, for indeed you are not able. Give 
to every one who asks you, and ask it not back; for the Father wills that to all 
should be given of our own blessings (free gifts). Happy is he who gives 
according to the commandment, for he is guiltless. Woe to him who receives; for 
if one receives who has need, he is guiltless; but he who receives not having 
need shall pay the penalty, why he received and for what. And coming into 
confinement, he shall be examined concerning the things which he has done, and 
he shall not escape from there until he pays back the last penny. And also 
concerning this, it has been said, Let your alms sweat in your hands, until you 
know to whom you should give. 
Chapter 2. The Second Commandment: Grave Sin Forbidden. And the second 
commandment of the Teaching; You shall not commit murder, you shall not commit 
adultery, you shall not 
commit pederasty, you shall not commit fornication, you shall not steal, you 
shall not practice magic, you shall not practice witchcraft, you shall not 
murder a child by abortion nor kill that which is born. 
You shall not covet the things of your neighbor, you shall not swear, you shall 
not bear false witness, 
you shall not speak evil, you shall bear no grudge. You shall not be 
double-minded nor double-tongued, for to be double-tongued is a snare of death. 
Your speech shall not be false, nor empty, but fulfilled by deed. You shall not 
be covetous, nor rapacious, nor a hypocrite, nor evil disposed, nor haughty. You 
shall not take evil counsel against your neighbor. You shall not hate any man; 
but some you shall reprove, and concerning some you shall pray, and some you 
shall love more than your own life. 
Chapter 3. Other Sins Forbidden. My child, flee from every evil thing, 
and from every likeness of it. Be not prone to anger, for anger leads to 
murder. Be neither jealous, nor quarrelsome, nor of hot temper, for out of all 
these murders are engendered. My child, be not a lustful one. for lust leads to fornication. 
Be neither a filthy talker, nor of lofty eye, for out of all these adulteries 
are engendered. My child, be not an observer of omens, since it leads to 
idolatry. Be neither an enchanter, nor an astrologer, nor a purifier, nor be 
willing to took at these things, for out of all these idolatry is engendered. My 
child, be not a liar, since a lie leads to theft. Be neither money-loving, nor 
vainglorious, for out of all these thefts are engendered. My child, be not a 
murmurer, since it leads the way to blasphemy. Be neither self-willed nor 
evil-minded, for out of all these blasphemies are engendered. 
Rather, be meek, since the meek shall inherit the earth. Be long-suffering 
and pitiful and guileless and gentle and good and always trembling at the words 
which you have heard. You shall not exalt yourself, nor give over-confidence to 
your soul. Your soul shall not be joined with lofty ones, but with just and 
lowly ones shall it have its intercourse. Accept whatever happens to you as 
good, knowing that apart from God nothing comes to pass. 
Chapter 4. Various Precepts. My child, remember night and day him who 
speaks the word of God to you, and honor him as you do the Lord. For wherever 
the lordly rule is uttered, there is the Lord. And seek out day by day the faces 
of the saints, in order that you may rest upon their words. Do not long for 
division, but rather bring those who contend to peace. Judge righteously, and do 
not respect persons in reproving for transgressions. You shall not be undecided 
whether or not it shall be. Be not a stretcher forth of the hands to receive and 
a drawer of them back to give. If you have anything, through your hands you 
shall give ransom for your sins. Do not hesitate to give, nor complain when you 
give; for you shall know who is the good repayer of the hire. Do not turn away 
from him who is in want; rather, share all things with your brother, and do not 
say that they are your own. For if you are partakers in that which is immortal, 
how much more in things which are mortal? Do not remove your hand from your son 
or daughter; rather, teach them the fear of God from their youth. Do not enjoin 
anything in your bitterness upon your bondman or maidservant, who hope in the 
same God, lest ever they shall fear not God who is over both; for he comes not 
to call according to the outward appearance, but to them whom the Spirit has 
prepared. And you bondmen shall be subject to your masters as to a type of God, 
in modesty and fear. You shall hate all hypocrisy and everything which is not 
pleasing to the Lord. Do not in any way forsake the commandments of the Lord; 
but keep what you have received, neither adding thereto nor taking away 
therefrom. In the church you shall acknowledge your transgressions, and you 
shall not come near for your prayer with an evil conscience. This is the way of 
life. 
Chapter 5. The Way of Death. And the way of death is this: First of 
all it is evil and accursed: murders, adultery, lust, fornication, thefts, 
idolatries, magic arts, witchcrafts, rape, false witness, hypocrisy, 
double-heartedness, deceit, haughtiness, depravity, self-will, greediness, 
filthy talking, jealousy, over-confidence, loftiness, boastfulness; persecutors 
of the good, hating truth, loving a lie, not knowing a reward for righteousness, 
not cleaving to good nor to righteous judgment, watching not for that which is 
good, but for that which is evil; from whom meekness and endurance are far, 
loving vanities, pursuing revenge, not pitying a poor man, not laboring for the 
afflicted, not knowing Him Who made them, murderers of children, destroyers of 
the handiwork of God, turning away from him who is in want, afflicting him who 
is distressed, advocates of the rich, lawless judges of the poor, utter sinners. 
Be delivered, children, from all these. 
Chapter 6. Against False Teachers, and Food Offered to Idols. See that 
no one causes you to err from this way of the Teaching, since apart from God it 
teaches you. For if you are able to bear the entire yoke of the Lord, you will 
be perfect; but if you are not able to do this, do what you are able. And 
concerning food, bear what you are able; but against that which is sacrificed to 
idols be exceedingly careful; for it is the service of dead gods. 
Chapter 7. Concerning Baptism. And concerning baptism, baptize this way: 
Having first said all these things, baptize into the name of the Father, and of 
the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, in living water. But if you have no living 
water, baptize into other water; and if you cannot do so in cold water, do so in 
warm. But if you have neither, pour out water three times upon the head into the 
name of Father and Son and Holy Spirit. But before the baptism let the baptizer 
fast, and the baptized, and whoever else can; but you shall order the baptized 
to fast one or two days before. 
Chapter 8. Fasting and Prayer (the Lord's Prayer). But let not your 
fasts be with the hypocrites, for they fast on the second and fifth day of the 
week. Rather, fast on the fourth day and the Preparation (Friday). Do not pray 
like the hypocrites, but rather as the Lord commanded in 
His Gospel, like this: 

Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy 
  will be done on earth, as it is in heaven. Give us today our daily (needful) 
  bread, and forgive us our debt as we also forgive our debtors. And bring us 
  not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one (or, evil); for Thine is 
  the power and the glory for ever..
Pray this three times each day. 
Chapter 9. The Eucharist. Now concerning the Eucharist, give thanks 
this way. First, concerning the cup: 

We thank thee, our Father, for the holy vine of David Thy servant, which 
  You madest known to us through Jesus Thy Servant; to Thee be the glory for 
  ever..And concerning the broken bread: 

We thank Thee, our Father, for the life and knowledge which You madest 
  known to us through Jesus Thy Servant; to Thee be the glory for ever. Even as 
  this broken bread was scattered over the hills, and was gathered together and 
  became one, so let Thy Church be gathered together from the ends of the earth 
  into Thy kingdom; for Thine is the glory and the power through Jesus Christ 
  for ever..
But let no one eat or drink of your Eucharist, unless they have been baptized 
into the name of the Lord; for concerning this also the Lord has said, "Give not 
that which is holy to the dogs." 
Chapter 10. Prayer after Communion. But after you are filled, give 
thanks this way: 

We thank Thee, holy Father, for Thy holy name which You didst cause to 
  tabernacle in our hearts, and for the knowledge and faith and immortality, 
  which You modest known to us through Jesus Thy Servant; to Thee be the glory 
  for ever. Thou, Master almighty, didst create all things for Thy name's sake; 
  You gavest food and drink to men for enjoyment, that they might give thanks to 
  Thee; but to us You didst freely give spiritual food and drink and life 
  eternal through Thy Servant. Before all things we thank Thee that You are 
  mighty; to Thee be the glory for ever. Remember, Lord, Thy Church, to deliver 
  it from all evil and to make it perfect in Thy love, and gather it from the 
  four winds, sanctified for Thy kingdom which Thou have prepared for it; for 
  Thine is the power and the glory for ever. Let grace come, and let this world 
  pass away. Hosanna to the God (Son) of David! If any one is holy, let him 
  come; if any one is not so, let him repent. Maranatha. Amen.
But permit the prophets to make Thanksgiving as much as they desire. 
Chapter 11. Concerning Teachers, Apostles, and Prophets. Whosoever, 
therefore, comes and teaches you all these things that have been said before, 
receive him. But if the teacher himself turns and teaches another doctrine to 
the destruction of this, hear him not. But if he teaches so as to increase 
righteousness and the knowledge of the Lord, receive him as the Lord. But 
concerning the apostles and prophets, act according to the decree of the Gospel. 
Let every apostle who comes to you be received as the Lord. But he shall not 
remain more than one day; or two days, if there's a need. But if he remains 
three days, he is a false prophet. And when the apostle goes away, let him take 
nothing but bread until he lodges. If he asks for money, he is a false prophet. 
And every prophet who speaks in the Spirit you shall neither try nor judge; for 
every sin shall be forgiven, but this sin shall not be forgiven. But not every 
one who speaks in the Spirit is a prophet; but only if he holds the ways of the 
Lord. Therefore from their ways shall the false prophet and the prophet be 
known. And every prophet who orders a meal in the Spirit does not eat it, unless 
he is indeed a false prophet. And every prophet who teaches the truth, but does 
not do what he teaches, is a false prophet. And every prophet, proved true, 
working unto the mystery of the Church in the world, yet not teaching others to 
do what he himself does, shall not be judged among you, for with God he has his 
judgment; for so did also the ancient prophets. But whoever says in the Spirit, 
Give me money, or something else, you shall not listen to him. But if he tells 
you to give for others' sake who are in need, let no one judge him. 
Chapter 12. Reception of Christians. But receive everyone who comes in 
the name of the Lord, and prove and know him afterward; for you shall have 
understanding right and left. If he who comes is a wayfarer, assist him as far 
as you are able; but he shall not remain with you more than two or three days, 
if need be. But if he wants to stay with you, and is an artisan, let him work 
and eat. But if he has no trade, according to your understanding, see to it 
that, as a Christian, he shall not live with you idle. But if he wills not to 
do, he is a Christ-monger. Watch that you keep away from such. 
Chapter 13. Support of Prophets. But every true prophet who wants to 
live among you is worthy of his support. So also a true teacher is himself 
worthy, as the workman, of his support. Every first-fruit, therefore, of the 
products of wine-press and threshing-floor, of oxen and of sheep, you shall take 
and give to the prophets, for they are your high priests. But if you have no 
prophet, give it to the poor. If you make a batch of dough, take the first-fruit 
and give according to the commandment. So also when you open a jar of wine or of 
oil, take the first-fruit and give it to the prophets; and of money (silver) and 
clothing and every possession, take the first-fruit, as it may seem good to you, 
and give according to the commandment. 
Chapter 14. Christian Assembly on the Lord's Day. But every Lord's day gather 
yourselves together, and break bread, and give thanksgiving after having 
confessed your transgressions, that your sacrifice may be pure. But 
let no one who is at odds with his fellow come together with you, until they be 
reconciled, that your sacrifice may not be profaned. For this is that which was 
spoken by the Lord: "In every place and time offer to me a pure sacrifice; for I 
am a great King, says the Lord, and my name is wonderful among the nations." 
Chapter 15. Bishops and Deacons; Christian Reproof. Appoint, 
therefore, for yourselves, bishops and deacons worthy of the 
Lord, men meek, and not lovers of money, and truthful and proved; for they also 
render to you the service of prophets and teachers. Therefore do not despise 
them, for they are your honored ones, together with the prophets and teachers. 
And reprove one another, not in anger, but in peace, as you have it in the 
Gospel. But to anyone that acts amiss against another, let no one speak, nor let 
him hear anything from you until he repents. But your prayers and alms and all 
your deeds so do, as you have it in the Gospel of our Lord. 
Chapter 16. Watchfulness; the Coming of the Lord. Watch for your 
life's sake. Let not your lamps be quenched, nor your loins unloosed; but be 
ready, for you know not the hour in which our Lord will come. But come together 
often, seeking the things which are befitting to your souls: for the whole time 
of your faith will not profit you, if you are not made perfect in the last time. 
For in the last days false prophets and corrupters shall be multiplied, and the 
sheep shall be turned into wolves, and love shall be turned into hate; for when 
lawlessness increases, they shall hate and persecute and betray one another, and 
then shall appear the world-deceiver as Son of 
God, and shall do signs and wonders, and the earth shall be delivered into his 
hands, and he shall do iniquitous things which have never yet come to pass since 
the beginning. Then shall the creation of men come into the fire of trial, and 
many shall be made to stumble and shall perish; but those who endure in their 
faith shall be saved from under the curse itself. And then shall appear the 
signs of the truth: first, the sign of an outspreading in heaven, then the sign 
of the sound of the trumpet. And third, the resurrection of the dead 
-- yet not of all, but as it is said: "The Lord shall come and all His saints 
with Him." Then shall the world see the Lord coming upon the clouds of heaven. 

