
Egerton Gospel











Fragment 1 Verso
[...] And Jesus said to the lawyers: "Punish every wrongdoer and
transgressor, and not me. [...]* he does, how does he do it?"
And turning to the rulers of the people he said this word: "Search the
scriptures, in which you think you have life. These are they, which testify about me. Do not
suppose that I have come to accuse you to my father. There is one who accuses you: Moses, in whom
you have hoped."
And they said: "We know that God spoke to Moses,but as for you, we do not
know, where you are from."
Jesus answered and said to them: "Now is accused your disbelief in those who
have been commended by him. For had you believed Moses, you would have believed me. For about me he
wrote to your fathers [...]"
------
* Possible reconstructions:
"Judge the deeds, how he does, what he does."
"Because an outlaw does not know, how he does, what he does."
"Because it's unexplained, how he does, what he does."
"And see, how he does, what he does."
"Who is condemning, how he does, what he does."

 
 
Fragment 1 Recto
[...] and taking up stones together to stone him. And the rulers laid their
hands upon him to seize him and hand him over to the crowd. And they could not take him because the
hour of his arrest had not yet come. But the Lord himself, escaping from their hands, withdrew from
them.
And behold, a leper coming to him, says: "Teacher Jesus, while traveling with
lepers and eating together with them in the inn, I myself also became a leper.* If
therefore you will, I am clean."
And the Lord said to him: "I will, be clean."
And immediately the leprosy left him. And Jesus said to him: "Go show
yourself to the priests and offer concerning the cleansing as Moses commanded and sin no more
[...]"

------------
* (Schmidt:) You look for the lepers and were eating with
publicans. Have mercy, I am like them.
The original reconstruction is factually impossible (traveling with lepers), therefore this new
one.



 
Fragment 2 Recto
Coming to him, they tested him in an exacting way, saying: "Teacher Jesus, we
know that you have come from God, for what you do testifies beyond all the prophets. Therefore tell
us, is it lawful to pay to kings the things which benefit their rule? Shall we pay them or
not?"
But Jesus, perceiving their purpose and becoming indignant said to them: "Why
do you call me teacher with your mouth, not doing what I say? Well did Isaiah* prophesy
concerning you, saying: 'This people honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. And
in vain they worship me, teaching as their doctrines the precepts of men...'"
----
* Jes 29:13 (NRS): The Lord said:
"Because these people draw near with their mouths and honor me with their lips, while their hearts
are far from me, and their worship of me is a human commandment learned by rote, ..."

 
 
Fragment 2 Verso
(unfortunately this fragment is in such a bad state, that it
cannot be sufficiently reconstructed. What follows is first the text which can be reconstructed
pretty sure and then some more speculative restaurations.)
"(...) shut up (...) has been subjected uncertainly (...) its weight
unweighted?"
And when they where perplexed at the strange question, Jesus, as he walked,
stood on the lip of the Jordan river, stretching out his right hand, filled it with (...) and sowed
upon the (...). And the (...) water (...) the (...). And (...) before them, he brought forth fruit
(...) much (...) for joy (...)
 
(Dodd:) "When a husbandman has enclosed a small seed in
a secret place, so that it is invisibly buried, how does its abundance become
immeasurable?"
And when they where perplexed at the strange question, Jesus, as he walked,
stood still upon the verge of the River Jordan, and stretching out his right hand, he filled it
with water and sprinkled it upon the 
shore. And thereupon the sprinkled water 
made the ground moist, and it was watered
before them and brought forth fruit...
(Schmidt:) "Why is the seed enclosed in the ground, the
abundance buried? Hidden for a short time, it will be immeasurable."
And when they where perplexed at the strange question, Jesus, as he walked,
stood on the banks of the River Jordan, and stretching out his right hand, he filled it with 
seed and sowed it upon the ground. And thereupon he poured sufficient water 
over it. And looking at the ground before
them, the fruit appeared...
(Cerfaux:) "(...) enclosed like me, buried, uncertain,
and making possible immeasurable abundance?"
And when they where perplexed at the strange question, Jesus, as he walked,
stood on the banks of the River Jordan, and stretching out his right hand, he took a fig-tree and planted it in the river. And on the 
water, the roots spread out and fruit
appeared...
(Lietzmann:) And when they where perplexed at the strange
question, Jesus, as he walked, stood on the banks of the River Jordan, and stretching out his right
hand, he filled it with water and sowed on the 
ground. And the sprinkled 
waterpurified(?) the ground. (...) and coming
out before them, the fruit appeared.
(Lagrange:) And when they where perplexed at the strange
question, Jesus walked at the banks of the River Jordan, and stretching out his right hand, he
filled it with sand and sowed seed on the
sand. And then he poured running water
over it. And it run to seed and coming out before them, the fruit appeared.

Though the fragment cannot be reconstructed sufficiently, the meaning can be found:
A small seed in the ground is hidden and invisible. How does its abundance become
immeasurable?
(By growing and bringing fruit.)
To clarify this, Jesus performs a miracle: He walks up to the river Jordan and with the water he
gives rise to a spontaneous ripening of fruit. (much, for joy!)


Possible parallel from Ezekiel 17:5-8: 
17:5 Then he took a seed from the land, placed it in fertile soil; a plant by abundant waters, he set it like a willow twig. 6 It sprouted and became a vine spreading out, but low; its branches turned toward him, its roots remained where it stood. So it became a vine; it brought forth branches, put forth foliage. [...] 8 it was transplanted to good soil by abundant waters, so that it might produce branches and bear fruit and become a noble vine. 
