
Ptolemy the Gnostic












Ptolemy's Letter to Flora
The Law was ordained through Moses, my dear sister Flora, has not been understood by
           many persons, who have accurate knowledge neither of him who ordained it nor of its
           commandments. I think that this will be perfectly clear to you when you have learned the
           contradictory opinions about it. 
Some say that it is legislation given by God the Father; others, taking the contrary
           course, maintain stubbornly that it was ordained by the opposite, the Devil who causes
           destruction, just as they attribute the fashioning of the world to him, saying that he is
           the Father and maker of this universe. Both are completely in error; they refute each
           other and neither has reached the truth of the matter. 
For it is evident that the Law was not ordained by the perfect God the Father, for it
           is secondary, being imperfect and in need of completion by another, containing
           commandments alien to the nature and thought of such a God. 
On the other hand, one cannot impute the Law to the injustice of the opposite, God, for
           it is opposed to injustice. Such persons do not comprehend what was said by the Savior. For
             a house or city divided against itself cannot stand [Matt 12:25], declared our
           Savior. Furthermore, the apostle says that creation of the world is due to him, for Everything
             was made through him and apart from him nothing was made. [John 1:3] Thus he takes
           away in advance the baseless wisdom of the false accusers, and shows that the creation is
           not due to a God who corrupts but to the one who is just and hates evil. Only
           unintelligent men have this idea, men who do not recognize the providence of the creator
           and have blinded not only the eye of the soul but also of the body. 
From what has been said, it is evident that these persons entirely miss the truth; each
           of the two groups has experienced this, the first because they do not know the God of
           justice, the second because they do not know the Father of all, who alone was revealed by
           him who alone came. It remainds for us who have been counted worthy of the knowledge of
           both these to provide you with an accurate explanation of the nature of the Law and the
           legislator by whom it was ordained. We shall draw the proofs of what we say from the words
           of the Savior, which alone can lead us without error to the comprehension of reality. 
First, you must learn that the entire Law contained in the Pentateuch of Moses was not
           ordained by one legislator - I mean, not by God alone, some commandments are Moses', and
           some were given by other men. The words of the Savior teach us this triple division. The
           first part must be attributed to God alone, and his legislation; the second to Moses - not
           in the sense that God legislates through him, but in the sense that Moses gave some
           legislation under the influence of his own ideas; and the third to the elders of the
           people, who seem to have ordained some commandments of their own at the beginning. You
           will now learn how the truth of this theory is proved by the words of the Savior. 
In some discussion with those who dispute with the Savior about divorce, which was
           permitted in the Law, he said Because of your hard-heartedness Moses permitted a man
             to divorce his wife; from the beginning it was not so; for God made this marriage, and
             what the Lord joined together, man must not seperate. [Matt 19:8] In this way he
           shows there is a Law of God, which prohibits the divorce of a wife from a husband, and
           another law, that of Moses, which permits the breaking of this yoke because of
           hard-heartedness. In fact, Moses lays down legislation contrary to that of God; for
           joining is contrary to not joining. 
But if we examine the intention of Moses in giving this legislation, it will be seen
           that he did not give it arbitrarily or of his own accord, but by the necessity because of
           the weakness of those for whom the legislation was given. Since they were unable to keep
           the intention of God, according to which it was not lawful for them to reject their wives,
           with whom some of them disliked to live, and therefore were in the danger of turning to
           greater injustice and thence to destruction, Moses wanted to remove the cause of dislike,
           which was placing them in jeopardy of destruction. Therefore because of the critical
           circumstances, choosing a lesser evil in place of a greater, he ordained, on his own
           accord, a second law, that of divorce, so that if they could not observe the first, they
           might keep this and not turn to unjust and evil actions, through which complete
           destruction would be the result for them. This was his intention when he gave legislation
           contrary to that of God. Therefore it is indisputeable that here the law of Moses is
           different from the Law of God, even if we have demonstrated the fact from only one
           example. 
The Savior also makes plain the fact that there are some traditions of the elders
           interwoven in the Law. For God,he says, Said, Honour your father and your
             mother, that it may be well with you, But you , he says addressing the elders, ...have
               declared as a gift to God, that by which you have nullified the Law of God through the
               tradition of your elders. Isaiah also proclaimed this, saying, This people
                 honours me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me, teaching precepts which are
               the commandments of men. [Matt 15:4-9]. 
Therefore it is obvious that the whole Law is divided into three parts; we find in it
           the legislation of Moses, of the elders, and of God himself. This division of the entire
           Law, as made by us, has brought to light what is true in it. 
This part, the Law of God himself, is in turn divided into three parts: the pure
           legislation not mixed with evil, which properly called Law, which the Savior came
           not to destroy but to complete [Matt 5:17] -- for what he completed was not alien to him
           but needed completion, for it did not possess perfection; next the legislation interwoven
           with the inferiority and injustice, which the Savior destroyed because it was alien to his
           nature; and finally, the legislation which is allegorical and symbolic, an image of what
           is spiritual and transcendent, which the Saviour transferred from the perceptible and
           phenomenal to the spiritual and invisible. 
The Law of God, pure and not mixed with inferiority, is the Decalogue, those ten
           sayings engraved on two tables, forbidding things not to be done and enjoining things to
           be done. These contains pure but imperfect legislation and required the completion made by
           the Savior. 
There is also the law interwoven with injustice, laid down for vengeance and the
           requital of previous injuries, ordaining that an eye should be cut out for an eye, and a
           tooth for a tooth, and that a murder should be avenged by a murderer. The person who is
           the second one to be unjust is no less unjust than the first; he simply changes the order
           of events while performing the same action. Admittedly, this commandment was a just one
           and still is just, because of the weakness of those for whom the legislation was made so
           thay would not transgress the pure law. But it is alien to the nature and goodness of the
           Father of all. No doubt it was appropiate to the circumstances, or even necessary; for he
           who does not want one murder comitted, saying, You shall not kill and then
           commanded a murder to be repaid by another murder, has given a second law which enjoins
           two murders although he had forbidden one. This fact proves that he was unsuspectingly the
           victim of necessity. 
This is why, when his son came, he destroyed this part of the law while admitting that
           it came from God. He counts this part of the law as in the old religion, not only in other
           passages but also where he said, God said, He who curses father or mother shall surely
             die.
Finally, there is the allegorical (exemplary) part, ordained in the image of the
           spiritual and trascendent matters, I mean the part dealing with offerings and circumcision
           and the sabbath and fasting and Passover and unleavened bread and other similar matters. 
Since all these things are images and symbols, when the truth was made manifest they
           were translated to another meaning. In their phenomenal appearance and their literal
           application they were destroyed, but in their spiritual meaning they were restored; the
           names remained the same but the content was changed. Thus the Savior commaned us to make
           offerings not of irrational animals or of the incense of this worldly sort, but of
           spiritual praise and glorification and thanksgiving and of sharing and well-doing with our
           neighbors. He wanted us to be circumcised, not in regard to our physical foreskin but in
           regard to our spiritual heart; to keep the Sabbath, for he wishes us to be idle in regard
           to evil works; to fast, not in physical fasting but in spiritual, in which there is
           abstinence from everything evil. 
Among us external fasting is also observed, since it can be advantageous to the soul if
           it is done reasonably, not for imitating others or from habit or because of a special day
           appointed for this purpose. It is also observed so that those who are not yet able to keep
           the true fast may have a reminder of it from the external fast. Similarely, Paul the
           apostle shows that the Passover and the unleavened bread are images when he says, Christ
             our passover has been sacrificed, in order that you may be unleavened bread, not
             containing leaven (by leaven he here means evil), but may be a new lump. [1 Cor 5:7] 
Thus the Law of God itself is obviously divided into three parts. The first was
           completed by the Savior, for the commandment, You shall not kill , You shall not
             commit adultery, you shall not swear falsely are included in the forbiding of anger,
           desire and swearing. The second part was entirely destroyed, for An eye for an eye and
             a tooth for a tooth interwoven in with injustice, was destroyed by the Savior through
           its opposite. Opposites cancel out, For I say to you, do not resist the evil man, but
             if anyone strikes you, turn the other cheek to him. 
Finally, there is the part translated and changed from the literal to the spiritual,
           this symbolic legislation which is an image of transcendent things. For the images and
           symbols which represent other things were good as long as the Truth has not come; but
           since the Truth has come, we must perform the actions of the Truth, not those of the
           image. 
The disciples of the Savior and the Apostle Paul showed that this theory is true,
           speaking of the part dealing with images, as we have already said, in mentioning The
             passover for us and the Unleavened bread; for the law interwoven with
           injustice when he says that the law of commandments in ordinances were destroyed [Eph 2:15]; and of that not mixed with anything inferior when he says that The law is
             holy, and the commandment is holy and just and good [Rom 7:12]. I think I have shown
           you sufficiently, as well as one can in brief compass, the addition of human legislation
           in the Law and the triple division of the Law of God itself. 
It remains for us to say who this God is who ordained the Law; but I think this too has
           been shown you in what we have already said, if you have listened to it attentively. 
For if the Law was not ordained by the perfect God himself, as we have already thaught
           you, nor by the devil, a statement one cannot possibly make, the legislator must be some
           one other than these two. In fact, he is the demiurge and maker of this universe and
           everything in it; and because he is essentially different from these two and is between
           them, he is rightly given the name, intermediate. 
And if the perfect God is good by nature, in fact he is, for our Savior declared that
           there is only a single good God, his Father whom he manifested; and if the one who is the
           opposite nature is evil and wicked, characterized by injustice; then the one situated
           between the two is neither good nor evil or unjust, but can properly be called just, since
           he is the arbitrator of the justice which is his. 
On the one hand, this god will be inferior to the perfect God and the lower than his
           justice, since he is generated and not ungenerated -- there is only one ungenerated
           Father, from whom are all things [1 Cor 8:6], since all things depend on him in their own
           ways. On the other hand, he will be greater and more powerful than the adversary, by
           nature, since he has a substance of either of them. The substance of the adversary is
           corruption and darkness, for he is material and complex, while the substance of the
           ungenerated Father of all is incorruption and self-existent light, simple and homogeneous.
           The substance of the latter produced a double power, while the Savior is an image of the
           greater one. 
And now, do not let this trouble you for the present in your desire to learn how from
           one first principle of all, simple, and acknowledgedby us and believed by us, ungenerated
           and incorruptible and good, were constituted these natures of corruption and the Middle,
           which are different substances, although it is characteristic of the good to generate and
           produce things which are like itself and have the same substance. 
For, if God permit, you will later learn about their origin and generation, when you
           are judged worthy of the apostolic tradition which we too have received by succession. We
           too are able to prove all our points by the teaching of the Savior. 
In making these brief statements to you, my sister Flora, I have not grown weary; and
           while I have treated the subject with brevity, I have also discussed it sufficiencly.
           These points will be of great benefit to you in the future, if like fair and good ground
           you have received fertile seeds and go on to show forth their fruit. 
