
Gospel of Peter











The following translation of the Akhmîm fragment is based on the Greek text printed in M.G. Mara's Évangile de Pierre. Although unusual, the traditional textual divisions are followed: verse numbers increase continuously without regard to chapter divisions.

Chapter 1
(1) [. . .] but none of t[he] Jews washed their hands, neither Herod nor [o]ne of his judges. A[nd] since they did [not] want to wash, Pilate sto[o]d up. (2) Then, Herod the king ordered that the Lord be taken away, saying to them, "Do what I ordered you to do to him."
 
Chapter 2
(3) Joseph, the friend of Pilate and the Lord, was there. And knowing that they were about to crucify him, he went to Pilate and requested the body of the Lord for burial. (4) And sending to Herod, Pilate requested the body. 
(5) And Herod said, "Brother Pilate, even if nobody had requested him, we would have buried him because the Sabbath is coming on. For it is written in the law, "Do not let the sun go down on the one who is being executed.'" And he delivered him to the people before the day of unleavened bread, their feast.
 
Chapter 3
(6) Then, taking the Lord and running around him, they pushed him and said, "Let us push the son of God since we control his freedom." (7) And they put a purple robe around him and sat him down on the seat of judgment, saying, "Judge justly, king of Israel!" (8) And someone who was carrying a crown of thorns put it on the head of the Lord. (9) And others who were standing around spat in his eyes and others struck his cheeks. Others pierced him and some of them scourged him, saying, "Let us honor the son of God with this honor!"
 
Chapter 4
(10) And they brought along two criminals and crucified the Lord in between them. But he kept silent as though he had no pain. (11) And when they set the cross upright they wrote on it, "This is the king of Israel." (12) And after they had put his clothes in front of him, they divided them and cast lots for them. 
(13) Then, one of these criminals reprimanded them, saying, "We have suffered this way because of the wicked things we did, but he, the one who is the savior of humanity, what wrong has he done to you?" (14) And being angry at him, they ordered that the criminal's legs not be broken so that he would die being tortured.
 
Chapter 5
(15) Then, it was midday and darkness covered all of Judea. And they became afraid because the sun was no longer shining and he was still alive.  it is written for them, "Do not let the sun go down on the one who is being executed." 
(16) And one of them said, "Make him drink bile with vinegar." And after mixing it, they made him drink. (17) And they fulfilled everything and brought their sins to completion on their heads. (18) Many people were walking around with lamps because they thought it was night  they were tripping.
(19) And the Lord cried out, saying, "My power, my power, you have forsaken me." And after saying this, he was taken up. (20) And at that same hour, the veil of the temple in Jerusalem was torn in two.
 
Chapter 6
(21) And then, they pulled the nails out of the hands of the Lord and set him on the ground. And the whole ground shook and great fear came over them. (22) Then, the sun shone  and it was found to be the ninth hour. (23) So, the Jews rejoiced and gave his body to Joseph that he might bury it, since he had seen the great things he had done. 
(24) Taking the Lord, he washed him and wrapped him in linen and took him to his own tomb which is called the garden of Joseph.
 
Chapter 7
(25) Then, the Jews and the elders and priests, knowing what evil they had done to themselves, began to mourn and say, "Curse our sins. The judgment and the end of Jerusalem are near." 
(26) At the time, I was grieving with my friends. We were hurting and could not understand what had happened. For we were being sought by them as criminals and as people who wanted to burn the temple. (27) We fasted about all these things and sat grieving and crying day and night until the Sabbath.
 
Chapter 8
(28) Then, the scribes and Pharisees and elders gathered together when they heard that all the people were grumbling and mourning, saying, "If these great signs took place at his death, see how righteous he was." 
(29) The elders were afraid and went to Pilate, urging him and saying, (30) "Give us soldiers so that we can guard the tomb for three d[ays], and prevent his disciples from coming and stealing him and causing the people to claim that he was raised from the dead and make trouble for us."
(31) Then, Pilate gave them the centurion Petronius with soldiers to guard the tomb. And the elders and scribes went with them to the tomb. (32) And after they had rolled a great stone into place with the centurions and soldiers, everyone there stood at the entrance of the tomb. (33) They put seven seals on it and set up a tent to keep watch.
 
Chapter 9
(34) When the Sabbath morning dawned, a crowd came from Jerusalem and the surrounding area that they might see that the tomb had been sealed. (35) But during the night in which the Lord's day dawned, while the soldiers were stationed in pairs to keep watch, a great voice came from heaven. (36) And they saw the hea[v]ens open and two men descend from there, having a great radiance and approaching the tomb. (37) Then, the same stone which had been put in the entrance rolled away from it and gave way partially. And the tomb was opened and both young men went in.
 
Chapter 10
(38) Then, seeing this, these soldiers woke up the centurions and elders, for they themselves were all there to keep watch. (39) And while they were describing what they had seen, again they saw three men coming out from the tomb, two supporting the other and a cross following them. (40) The heads of the two reached up to the heavens and the head of the one they were leading by the hand went beyond the heavens. (41) And they heard a voice from heaven saying, "Did you preach to those who sleep?" 
(42) Obediently, there was heard from the cross, "Yes."
 
Chapter 11
(43) They then determined with each other to go and reveal these things to Pilate. (44) While they were still considering these things, the heavens opened again and a man appeared, descending and going into the tomb. (45) When those around the centurion that night saw these things, they hurried to Pilate after being sent from the tomb they were guarding. And they explained everything they had seen, being extremely anxious and saying, "Truly, this was the son of God!" 
(46) When Pilate replied, he said, "I am clean from the blood of the son of God, this was considered by you."
(47) Then everybody urged him and made him promise to command the centurion and the soldiers not to tell what they had seen. (48) "For it is better for us," they said, "to be guilty of this great sin before God and not to fall into the hands of the people of Judea and be stoned." (49) So Pilate ordered the centurion and the soldiers not to talk.
 
Chapter 12
(50) Since Mary Magdalene, the disciple of the Lord, was afraid of the Jews who were inflamed with anger, she had not done what women usually do at the tombs of those who have died and are loved by them. At the dawn of the Lord's day, however, (51) she took her friends with her and went to the tomb where he had been put. (52) And they were afraid that the Jews might see. They said, "Even if we were not able to weep and mourn on the day he was crucified, let us now do these things at his tomb. (53) But who will roll away the stone which was placed in the entrance for us, so that we can to go in to him and do the things we should? (54) For the stone is great and we are afraid that someone might see us. And if we cannot go in, let us put what we brought in his memory at the entrance. Let us weep and mourn until we get to our houses."
 
Chapter 13
(55) When they arrived, they found that the tomb had been opened. And going in, they stooped over and there was a beautiful man sitting  the middle of the tomb and he had an extremely bright robe wrapped around him. Whoever he was, he said to them, (56) "Why did you come? Whom are you seeking? Is it not the one who was crucified? He has risen and gone out. If you do not believe, however, bend down and look there at the place he lay because he is not there. For he has risen and gone out there, where he was sent." 
(57) Then, the terrified women fled.
 
Chapter 14
(58) It was the last day of the feast of the unleavened bread and many people were going out, returning to their houses since the festival was over. (59) But we, the twelve disciples of the Lord, were weeping and grieving, and although everyone was mourning because of what had happened, each departed for his own house. (60) But I, Simon Peter, and my brother Andrew took our nets and went out to the sea. And with us was Levi, the son of Alphaeus, whom the Lord [. . .]
