
Gospel of Nicodemus











Part II.-The Descent of 
Christ into Hell
--------

Greek Form.
Chapter I (17).
Joseph says: And why do you wonder that Jesus has risen? But it is wonderful 
that He has not risen alone, but that He has also raised many others of the dead 
who have appeared in Jerusalem to many.
And if you do not know the others, Symeon at least, who received Jesus, and his 
two sons whom He has raised up-them at least you know. For we buried them not 
long ago; but now their tombs are seen open and empty, and they are 
alive, and dwelling in Arimathaea. They therefore sent men, and they found their 
tombs open and empty. Joseph says: Let us go to Arimathaea and find them.
Then rose up the chief priests Annas and Caiaphas, and Joseph, and Nicodemus, 
and Gamaliel, and others with them, and went away to Arimathaea, and found those 
whom Joseph spoke of. They made prayer, therefore, and saluted each other. Then 
they came with them to Jerusalem, and brought them into the synagogue, and 
secured the doors, and placed in the midst the old covenant of the Jews; 
and the chief priests said to them: We wish you to swear by the God of Israel 
and Adonai, and so that you tell the truth, how you have risen, and who has 
raised you from the dead.
The men who had risen having heard this, made upon their faces the sign of 
the cross, and said to the chief priests: Give us paper and ink and pen. These 
therefore they brought. And sitting down, they wrote thus:-

Chapter 2 (18).
O Lord Jesus Christ, the resurrection and the life of the world, grant us 
grace that we may give an account of Thy resurrection, and Thy miracles which 
Thou didst in Hades. We then were in Hades, with all who had fallen asleep since 
the beginning of the world. And at the hour of midnight there rose a light as if 
of the sun, and shone into these dark regions; and we were all lighted 
up, and saw each other. And straightway our father Abraham was united with the 
patriarchs and the prophets, and at the same time they were filled with joy, and 
said to each other: This light is from a great source of light. The prophet 
Hesaias, who was there present, said: This light is from the Father, and from 
the Son, and from the Holy Spirit; about whom I prophesied when yet alive, 
saying, The land of Zabulon, and the land of Nephthalim, the people that sat in 
darkness, have seen a great light. 

Then there came into the midst another, an ascetic from the desert; and the 
patriarchs said to him: Who art thou? And he said: I am John, the last of the 
prophets, who made the paths of the Son of God straight,
and proclaimed to the people repentance for the remission of sins.
And the Son of God came to me; and I, seeing Him a long way off, said to the 
people: Behold the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sin of the world.
And with my hand I baptized Him in the river Jordan, and I saw like a dove also 
the Holy Spirit coming upon Him;
and I heard also the voice of God, even the Father,
thus saying: This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.
And on this account He sent me also to you, to proclaim how the only begotten 
Son of God is coming here, that whosoever shall believe in Him shall be saved, 
and whosoever shall not believe in Him shall be condemned.
On this account I say to you all, in order that when you see Him you all may 
adore Him, that now only is for you the time of repentance for having adored 
idols in the vain upper world, and for the sins you have committed, and that 
this is impossible at any other time.

Chapter 3 (19).
While John, therefore, was thus teaching those in Hades, the first created 
and forefather Adam heard, and said to his son Seth: My son, I wish thee to tell 
the forefathers of the race of men and the prophets where I sent thee, when it 
fell to my lot to die. And Seth said: Prophets and patriarchs, hear. When my 
father Adam, the first created, was about to fall once upon a time into death, 
he sent me to make entreaty to God very close by the gate of paradise, that He 
would guide me by an angel to the tree of compassion and that I might take oil 
and anoint my father, and that he might rise up from his sickness: which thing, 
therefore, I also did. And after the prayer an angel of the Lord came, and said 
to me: What, Seth, dost thou ask? Dost thou ask oil which raiseth up the sick, 
or the tree from which this oil flows, on account of the sickness of thy father? 
This is not to be found now. Go, therefore, and tell thy father, that after the 
accomplishing of five thousand five hundred years 
from the creation of the world, thou shall come into the earth the only begotten 
Son of God, being made man; and He shall anoint him with this oil, and shall 
raise him up; and shall wash clean, with water and with the Holy Spirit, both 
him and those out of him, and then shall he be healed of every disease; but now 
this is impossible.

When the patriarchs and the prophets heard these words, they rejoiced 
greatly.

Chapter 4 (20).
And when all were in such joy, came Satan the heir of darkness, and said to 
Hades: O all-devouring and insatiable, hear my words. There is of the race of 
the Jews one named Jesus, calling himself the Son of God; and being a man, by 
our working with them the Jews have crucified him: and now when he is dead, be 
ready that we may secure him here. For I know that he is a man, and I heard him 
also saying, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death.
He has also done me many evils when living with mortals in the upper world. For 
wherever he found my servants, he persecuted them; and whatever men I made 
crooked, blind, lame, lepers, or any such thing, by a single word he healed 
them; and many whom I had got ready to be buried, even these through a single 
word he brought to life again.
Hades says: And is this man so powerful as to do such things by a 
single word? or if he be so, canst thou withstand him? It seems to me that, if 
he be so, no one will be able to withstand him. And if thou sayest that thou 
didst hear him dreading death, he said this mocking thee, and laughing, wishing 
to seize thee with the strong hand; and woe, woe to thee, to all eternity!
Satan says: O all-devouring and insatiable Hades, art thou so afraid at 
hearing of our common enemy? I was not afraid of him, but worked in the Jews, 
and they crucified him, and gave him also to drink gall with vinegar.
Make ready, then, in order that you may lay fast hold of him when he comes.
Hades answered: Heir of darkness, son of destruction, devil, thou hast just 
now told me that many whom thou hadst made ready to be buried, be brought to 
life again by a single word. And if he has delivered others from the tomb, how 
and with what power shall he be laid hold of by us? For I not long ago swallowed 
down one dead, Lazarus by name; and not long after, one of the living by a 
single word dragged him up by force out of my bowels: and I think that it was he 
of whom thou speakest. If, therefore, we receive him here, I am afraid lest 
perchance we be in danger even about the rest. For, lo, all those that I have 
swallowed from eternity I perceive to be in commotion, and I am pained in my 
belly. And the snatching away of Lazarus beforehand seems to me to be no good 
sign: for not like a dead body, but like an eagle, he flew out of me; for so 
suddenly did the earth throw him out. Wherefore also I adjure even thee, for thy 
benefit and for mine, not to bring him here; for I think that he is coming here 
to raise all the dead. And this I tell thee: by the darkness in which we live, 
if thou bring him here, not one of the dead will be left behind in it to me.

Chapter 5 (21).
While Satan and Hades were thus speaking to each other, there was a great 
voice like thunder, saying: Lift up your gates, O ye rulers; and be ye lifted 
up, ye everlasting gates; and the King of glory shall come in.
When Hades heard, he said to Satan: Go forth, if thou art able, and withstand 
him. Satan therefore went forth to the outside. Then Hades says to his demons: 
Secure well and strongly the gates of brass and the bars of iron, and attend to 
my bolts, and stand in order,
and see to everything; for if he come in here, woe will seize us.
The forefathers having heard this, began all to revile him, saying: O 
all-devouring and insatiable! open, that the King of glory may come in. David 
the prophet says: Dost thou not know, O blind, that I when living in the world 
prophesied this saying: Lift up your gates, O ye rulers? Hesaias said: I, 
foreseeing this by the Holy Spirit, wrote: The dead shall rise up, and those in 
their tombs shall be raised, and those in the earth shall rejoice.
And where, O death, is thy sting? where, O Hades, is thy victory?

There came, then, again a voice saying: Lift up the gates. Hades, hearing the 
voice the second time, answered as if forsooth he did not know, and says: Who is 
this King of glory? The angels of the Lord say: The Lord strong and mighty, the 
Lord mighty in battle.
And immediately with these words the brazen gates were shattered, and the iron 
bars broken, and all the dead who had been bound came out of the prisons, and we 
with the n And the King of glory came in in the form of a man, and all the dark 
places of Hades were lighted up.

Chapter 6 (22).
Immediately Hades cried out: We have been conquered: woe to us! But who art 
thou, that hast such power and might? and what art thou, who comest here without 
sin who art seen to be small and yet of great power, lowly and exalted, the 
slave and the master, the soldier and the king, who hast power over the dead and 
the living? Thou wast nailed on the cross, and placed in the tomb; and now thou 
art free, and hast destroyed all our power. Art thou then the Jesus about whom 
the chief satrap Satan told us, that through cross and death thou art to inherit 
the whole world?
Then the King of glory seized the chief satrap Satan by the head, and 
delivered him to His angels, and said: With iron chains bind his hands and his 
feet, and his neck, and his mouth. Then He delivered him to Hades, and said: 
Take him, and keep him secure till my second appearing.

Chapter 7 (23).
And Hades receiving Satan, said to him: Beelzebul, heir of fire and 
punishment, enemy of the saints, through what necessity didst thou bring about 
that the King of glory should be crucified, so that he should come here and 
deprive us of our power? Turn and see that not one of the dead has been 
left in me, but all that thou hast gained through the tree of knowledge, all 
hast thou lost through the tree of the cross: and all thy joy has been turned 
into grief; and wishing to put to death the King of glory, thou hast put thyself 
to death. For, since I have received thee to keep thee safe, by experience shall 
thou learn how many evils I shall do unto thee. O arch-devil, the beginning of 
death, root of sin, end of all evil, what evil didst thou find in Jesus, that 
thou shouldst compass his destruction? how hast thou dared to do such evil? how 
hast thou busied thyself to bring down such a man into this darkness, through 
whom thou hast been deprived of all who have died from eternity?

Chapter 8 (24).
While Hades was thus discoursing to Satan, the King of glory stretched out 
His right hand, and took hold of our forefather Adam, and raised him. Then 
turning also to the rest, He said: Come all with me, as many as have died 
through the tree which he touched: for, behold, I again raise you all up through 
the tree of the cross. Thereupon He brought them all out, and our forefather 
Adam seemed to be filled with joy, and said: I thank Thy majesty, O Lord, that 
Thou hast brought me up out of the lowest Hades. 
Likewise also all the prophets and the saints said: We thank Thee, O Christ, 
Saviour of the world, that Thou hast brought our life up out of 
destruction.

And after they had thus spoken, the Saviour blessed Adam with the sign of the 
cross on his forehead, and did this also to tire patriarchs, and prophets, and 
martyrs, and forefathers; and He took them, and sprang up out of Hades. And 
while He was going, the holy fathers accompanying Him sang praises, saying: 
Blessed is He that cometh in the name of the Lord: 
Alleluia; to Him be the glory of oil the saints.

Chapter 9 (25).
And setting out to paradise, He took hold of our forefather Adam by the hand, 
and delivered him, and all the just, to the archangel Michael. And as they were 
going into the door of paradise, there met them two old men, to whom the holy 
fathers said: Who are you, who have not seen death, and have not come down into 
Hades, but who dwell in paradise in your bodies and your souls? One of them 
answered, and said: I am Enoch, who was well-pleasing to God, and who was 
translated hither by Him; and this is Helias the Thesbite; and we are also to 
live until the end of the world; and then we are to be sent by God to withstand 
Antichrist, and to be slain by him, and after three days to rise again, and to 
be snatched up in clouds to meet the Lord.


Chapter 10 (26)
While they were thus speaking, there came another lowly man, carrying also 
upon his shoulders a cross, to whom the holy fathers said: Who art thou, who 
hast the look of a robber; and what is the cross which thou bearest upon thy 
shoulders? He answered: I, as you say, was a robber and a thief in the world, 
and for these things the Jews laid hold of me, and delivered me to the death of 
the cross, along with our Lord Jesus Christ. While, then, He was hanging upon 
the cross, I, seeing the miracles that were done, believed in Him, and entreated 
Him, and said, Lord, when Thou shall be King, do not forget me. And immediately 
He said to me, Amen, amen: to-day, I say unto thee, shall thou be with me in 
paradise. Therefore I came to paradise carrying my cross; and finding the 
archangel Michael, I said to him, Our Lord Jesus, who has been crucified, has 
sent me here; bring me, therefore, to the gate of Eden. And the flaming sword, 
seeing the sign of the cross, opened to me, and I went in. Then the archangel 
says to me, Wait a little, for there cometh also the forefather of the race of 
men, Adam, with the just, that they too may come in. And now, seeing you, I came 
to meet you.
The saints hearing these things, all cried out with a loud voice: Great is 
our Lord, and great is His strength.


Chapter 11 (27).
All these things we saw and heard; we, the two brothers, who also have been 
sent by Michael the archangel, and have been ordered to proclaim the 
resurrection of the Lord, but first to go away to the Jordan and to be baptized. 
Thither also we have gone, and have been baptized with the rest of the dead who 
have risen. Thereafter also we came to Jerusalem, and celebrated the passover of 
the resurrection. But now we are going away, being unable to stay here. And the 
love of God, even the Father, and the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the 
communion of the Holy Spirit, be with you all.

Having written these things, and secured the rolls, they gave the half to the 
chief priests, and the half to Joseph and Nicodemus. And they immediately 
disappeared: to the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

Part I.-Acts of Pilate
Latin Form.
I Aeneas was at first a protector of the Hebrews, and follower of the law; 
then the grace of the Saviour and His great gift took possession of me. I 
recognised Christ Jesus in holy Scripture; I came to Him, and embraced His 
faith, so that I might become worthy of His holy baptism. First of all I 
searched for the memoirs written in those times about our Lord Jesus Christ, 
which the Jews published in the age of Pontius Pilate, and we found them in 
Hebrew writings, drawn up in the age of the Lord Jesus Christ; and I translated 
them into the language of the Gentiles, in the reign of the eminent Theodosius, 
who was fulfilling his seventeenth consulship, and of Valentinian, consul for 
the fifth time in the ninth indiction. Whosoever of you read this book, and 
transfer it to other copies, remember me, and pray for me, Aeneas, least of the 
servants of God, that He be merciful to me, and pardon my sins which I have 
committed against Him. Peace be to all who shall read these, and to all their 
house, for ever! Amen.
Now it came to pass, in the nineteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, 
emperor of the Romans, and of Herod, son of Herod king of Galilee, in the 
nineteenth year of his rule, on the eighth day before the kalends of April, 
which is the twenty-fifth day of the month of March, in the consulship of 
Rufinus and Rubellio, in the fourth year of the 202d Olympiad, under the rule of 
Joseph and Caiaphas, priests of the Jews: the things done by the chief priests 
and the rest of the Jews, which Nicodemus recorded after the cross and passion 
of the Lord, Nicodemus himself committed to Hebrew letters.

Chapter I.
Annas and Caiaphas, Summas and Datam, Gamaliel, Judas, Levi, Neptalim, 
Alexander and Jairus, and the rest of the Jews, came to Pilate, accusing the 
Lord Jesus Christ of many things, and saying: We know him to be the son of 
Joseph the carpenter, born of Mary; and he says that he is the Son of God, and a 
king. Not only so, but he also breaks the Sabbath, and wishes to do away with 
the law of our fathers. Pilate says: What is it that he does, and wishes to 
destroy the law? The Jews say: We have a law, not to heal any one on the 
Sabbath; but he, by evil arts, heals on the Sabbath the lame and the 
hunchbacked, the blind, the palsied, the lepers, and the demoniacs. Pilate says 
to them: By what evil arts? They say to him: He is a sorcerer; and by Beelzebub, 
prince of the demons, he casts out demons, and they are all subject to him. 
Pilate says to them: It is not in an unclean spirit to cast out demons, but in 
the god of Scolapius.
The Jews say: We pray thy majesty to set him before thy tribunal to be heard. 
Pilate, calling the Jews to him, says to them: How can I, seeing that I am a 
governor,
hear a king? They say to him: We do not say that he is a king, but he himself 
says he is. And Pilate, calling a runner, says to him: Let Jesus be brought in 
with kindness. And the runner, going out and recognising Him, adored Him, and 
spread on the ground the cloak which he carried in his hand, saying: My lord, 
walk upon this, and come in, because the governor calls thee. But the Jews, 
seeing what the runner did, cried out against Pilate, saying: Why didst not thou 
make him come in by the voice of a crier, but by a runner? for the runner, too, 
seeing him, has adored him, and has spread out before him on the ground the 
cloak which he held in his hand, and has said to him: My lord, the governor 
calls thee. 
And Pilate, calling the runner, says to him: Wherefore hast thou done this, 
and honoured Jesus, who is called Christ? The runner says to him: When thou 
didst send me into Jerusalem to Alexander, I saw him sitting upon an ass, and 
the children of the Hebrews breaking branches from the trees, strewing them in 
the way; and others held branches in their hands; and others spread their 
garments in the way, shouting and saying, Save, therefore, Thou who art in the 
highest; blessed is He that cometh in the name of the Lord!
The Jews cried out, saying against the runner: The children of the Hebrews 
indeed cried out in Hebrew. How canst thou, a Gentile, know this? The runner 
says to them: I asked one of the Jews, and said, What is it that they cry out in 
Hebrew? and he explained to me. Pilate says to them: And how did they cry out in 
Hebrew? The Jews said: Osanna in the highest! Pilate says to them: What is the 
meaning of Osanna in the highest? They say to him: Save us, Thou who art in the 
highest. Pilate says to them: If you yourselves bear witness to the terms and 
words in which the children cried out, in what has the runner sinned? And they 
were silent. The governor says to the runner: Go out, and lead him in, in 
whatever way thou wilt. And the runner, going forth, did after the same form as 
before, and says to Jesus: My lord, go in, because the governor calls thee.
As Jesus, then, was going in, and the standard-bearers bearing the standards, 
the heads of the standards were bowed of themselves, and adored Jesus. And the 
Jews, seeing the standards, how they bowed themselves and adored Jesus, cried 
out the more against the standard-bearers. And Pilate says to the Jews: Do you 
not wonder at the way in which the standards have bowed themselves and adored 
Jesus? The Jews say to Pilate: we saw bow the men carrying the standards bowed 
themselves and adored Jesus. And the governor, calling the standard-bearers, 
says to them: Why have you so done? They say to Pilate: We are Gentile men, and 
slaves of the temples: how had we
to adore him? for when we were holding the figures,
they themselves bowed and adored him.
Pilate says to the chiefs of the synagogue and the elders of the people: 
Choose ye men powerful and strong, and let them hold the standards, and let us 
see whether they will bow of themselves. And the elders of the Jews, taking 
twelve men very strong and powerful, made them hold the standards, six and six; 
and they stood before the governor's tribunal. Pilate says to the runner: Take 
out Jesus outside of the praetorium, and bring him in again, In whatever way 
thou wilt. And Jesus and the runner went outside of the praetorium. And Pilate, 
calling those who had formerly held the standards, said to them: By the health 
of Caesar, if the standards do not bow themselves when Jesus comes in, I will 
cut off your heads. And the governor ordered Jesus to come in a second time. And 
the runner did after the same form as before, and besought Jesus much that He 
would go up and walk upon his cloak. And He walked upon it, and went in. And as 
Jesus was going in, immediately the standards bowed themselves, and adored 
Jesus.

Chapter 2.
And Pilate seeing, fear seized him, and immediately he wished to rise from 
the tribunal. And while he was thinking of this, viz., to rise and go 
away, his wife sent to him, saying: Have nothing to do with that just 
man,
for I have suffered much on account of him this night. And Pilate, calling the 
Jews, said to them: Ye know that my wife is a worshipper of God, and in Judaism 
thinks rather with you. The Jews say to him: So it is, and we know. Pilate says 
to them: Lo, my wife has sent to me, saying: Have nothing to do with that just 
man,
for I have suffered much on account of him this night. And the Jews answering, 
said to Pilate: Did we not say to thee that he is a magician? Lo, he has sent a 
vision of dreams to thy wife.
Pilate called Jesus, and said to him: What is it that these witness against 
thee, and sayest thou nothing to them? And Jesus answered: If they had not the 
power, they would not speak. Every one has power over his own mouth to say good 
and evil; let them see
to it.
And the elders of the Jews answering, say to Jesus: What shall we see? First, 
that thou wast born of fornication; second, that at thy birth in Bethlehem there 
took place a massacre of infants; third, that thy father Joseph and thy mother 
Mary fled into Egypt, because they had no confidence in the people.
Some of the bystanders, kind men of the Jews, say: We say that he was 
not born of fornication; but we know that Mary, was espoused to Joseph, and that 
he was not born of fornication. Pilate says to the Jews who said that he was of 
fornication: This speech of yours is not true, seeing that the betrothal took 
place, as these of your nation say. Annas and Caiaphas say to Pilate: We with 
all the multitude say that he was born of fornication, and that he is a 
magician; but these are proselytes, and his disciples. And Pilate, calling Annas 
and Caiaphas, says to them: What are proselytes? They say to him: They have been 
born sons of the Gentiles, and then have become Jews. Then answered those who 
testified that Jesus was not born of fornication, Lazarus and Asterius, Antonius 
and James, Annes and Azaras, Samuel and Isaac, Finees and Crispus, Agrippa and 
Judas: We were not born proselytes, but are sons of the Jews, and we speak the 
truth; for we were present at the betrothal of Mary.
And Pilate, calling to him those twelve men who proved that Jesus had not 
been born of fornication, said to them: I adjure you by the health of Caesar, 
tell me if it be true that Jesus was not born of fornication. They say to Pilate 
We have a law not to swear, because it is a sin; but let them swear by the 
health of Caesar that it is not as we say, and we are worthy of death. Then said 
Pilate to Annas and Caiaphas: Answer you nothing to those things which these 
testify? Annas and Caiaphas say to Pilate: Those twelve are believed that he is 
not born of fornication; we-all the people-cry out that he was born of 
fornication, and is a magician, and says that he himself is the Son of God and a 
king, and we are not believed.
And Pilate ordered all the multitude to go outside, except the twelve men who 
said that He was not born of fornication, and ordered to separate Jesus from 
them. And Pilate says to them: For what reason do the Jews wish to put Jesus to 
death? And they say to him: They are angry because he heals on the Sabbath. 
Pilate said: For a good work do they wish to put him to death? They say to him: 
Yes, my lord.

Chapter 3
Pilate, filled with fury, went forth outside of the praetorium, and says to 
them: I take the sun to witness that I find in this man not even one fault. The 
Jews answered and said to the governor: If he were not an evil-doer, we should 
never have delivered him to thee. Pilate says to them: Take him, and judge him 
according to your law. The Jews answered: It is not permitted to us to put any 
one to death. Pilate says to them: Has God said to you not to put any one to 
death? has He therefore said to me that I am to kill?
Pilate, having again gone into the praetorium, called Jesus to him privately, 
and said to Him: Art thou the king of the Jews? Jesus answered Pilate: Speakest 
thou this of thyself, or have others said it to thee of me? Pilate answered: Am 
I a Jew? Thy nation and the chief priests have delivered thee to me. What hast 
thou done? Jesus answering, said: My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom 
were of this world, my servants would assuredly strive that I should not be 
delivered to the Jews; but now my kingdom is not from hence. Pilate said to Him: 
Art thou then a king? Jesus said to him: Thou sayest that I am a king. For I for 
this was born, and for this have I come, that I should bear witness to the 
truth; and every one who is of the truth hears my voice. Pilate says to him: 
What is truth? Jesus says: Truth is from heaven. Pilate says: Is not there truth 
upon earth? Jesus says to Pilate: Notice now the truth-speaking are judged by 
those who have power upon earth.

Chapter 4.
Pilate therefore, leaving Jesus within the praetorium, went out to the Jews, 
and says to them: I find not even one fault in him. The Jews say to him: He 
said, I can destroy that temple, and in three days raise it again. Pilate said 
to them: What temple? The Jews say to him: The temple which Solomon built 
in forty and six years; and he says that he can destroy and build it in 
three days. Pilate says to them: I am innocent of the blood of this man; see 
ye to it. The Jews say to him: His blood be upon us, and upon our 
children.
And Pilate, calling the elders and priests and Levites, says to them 
privately: Do not do so; for in nothing, though you accuse him, do I find him 
deserving of death, not even about the healing and the breaking of the Sabbath. 
The priests and Levites and elders say: Tell us, if any one blaspheme Caesar, is 
he deserving of death or not? Pilate says to them: He deserves to die. The Jews 
answered him: How much more is he who has blasphemed God deserving to die!
And the governor ordered the Jews to go outside of the praetorium; and 
calling Jesus, said to Him: What am I to do to thee? Jesus says to Pilate: As it 
has been given thee. Pilate says: How has it been given? Jesus says: 
Moses and the prophets made proclamation of my death and resurrection. And the 
Jews, hearing this, say to Pilate: Why do you desire any more to hear blasphemy? 
And Pilate said: If this speech is blasphemous, do you take him, and lead him to 
your synagogue, and judge him according to your law. The Jews say to Pilate: Our 
law holds, If a man have sinned against a man, he is worthy to receive forty 
less one; but he who has blasphemed against God, to be stoned.
Pilate says to them: Then judge him according to your law. The Jews say to 
Pilate: we wish that he be crucified. Pilate says to them: He does not deserve 
to be crucified.
And the governor, looking upon the people of the Jews standing round, saw 
very many of the Jews weeping, and said: All the multitude does not wish him to 
die. The elders say to Pilate: And for this reason have we come-the whole 
multitude-that he should die. Pilate said to the Jews: What has he done that he 
should die? They say: Because he said that he was the Son of God, and a 
king.

Chapter 5.
But one Nicodemus, a Jew, stood before the governor, and said: I entreat, 
mercifully allow me to say a few words. Pilate says to him: Say on. Nicodemus 
says: I said to the elders and the priests and the Levites, and to all the 
multitude of the Jews, in the synagogue, What have you to do with this 
man? This man does many wonders and signs, which no one of men has done or can 
do, Let him go, and do not devise any evil against him: if the signs which he 
does are of God, they will stand; but if of men, they will come to nothing. For 
Moses also, being sent by God into Egypt, did many signs, which God told him to 
do before Pharaoh king of Egypt. And the sorcerers Jamnes and Mambres were there 
healing, and they did, they also, the signs which Moses did, but not all; and 
the Egyptians deemed them as gods, Jamnes and Mambres. And since the signs which 
they did were not of God, they perished, both they and those who believed in 
them. And now let this man go, for he is not deserving of death.
The Jews say to Nicodemus: Thou hast become his disciple, and takest his 
part.
Nicodemus says to them: Has the governor also become his disciple, and does he 
take his part? Has not Caesar set him over that dignity? And the Jews were 
raging and gnashing with their teeth against Nicodemus. Pilate says to them: Why 
do you gnash with your teeth against him, when you are hearing the truth? 
The Jews say to Nicodemus: Mayst thou receive his truth, and a portion with him! 
Nicodemus says: Amen, amen, amen; may I receive it, as you have said!

Chapter 6.
And of the Jews a certain other one, starting up, asks the governor that he 
might say a word. The governor says: What thou wishest to say, say. And he said: 
For thirty-eight years I lay in infirmity in my bed in very grievous pain. And 
at the coming of Jesus, many demoniacs, and persons held down by divers 
infirmities, were healed by him. And some young men had pity on me; and carrying 
me in my bed, laid me before him. And Jesus, seeing, had pity on me, and said 
the word to me, Take up thy bed, and walk. And immediately I was made whole; I 
took up my bed, and walked. The Jews say to Pilate: Ask him what was the day on 
which he was healed. He said: The Sabbath. The Jews say: Have we not so informed 
thee, that on the Sabbath he heals, and drives out demons?
And a certain other Jew starting up, said: I was born blind; I heard a voice, 
and saw no man. And as Jesus was passing by, I cried out with a loud voice, Have 
pity upon me, thou son of David. And he had pity upon me, and laid his hands 
upon my eyes, and I saw immediately. And another Jew starting up, said: I was 
hunchbacked, and he straightened me with a word. And another said: I was 
leprous, and he healed me with a word.

Chapter 7.
And also a certain woman, Veronica by name, from afar off cried out to the 
governor: I was flowing with blood for twelve years; and I touched the fringe of 
his garment, and immediately the flowing of my blood stopped. The Jews say: We 
have a law, that a woman does not come to bear witness.

Chapter 8.
And certain others, a multitude of men and women, cried out, saying: That man 
is a prophet, and the demons are subject to him. Pilate says to those who said 
the demons are subject to him: And your masters, why are they not subject to 
him? They say to Pilate: We do not know. And others said to Pilate: He raised up 
dead Lazarus from the tomb after four days. The governor, hearing this, said 
trembling to all the multitude of the Jews: Why do you wish to shed innocent 
blood?

Chapter 9.
And Pilate, calling Nicodemus and the twelve men who said that He was not 
born of fornication, says to them: What am I to do, seeing that there is a 
sedition among the people? They say to him: We do not know; let them see to it. 
Again Pilate, calling all the multitude of the Jews, said: You know that you 
have a custom during the day of unleavened bread, that I should release to you 
one that is bound. I have a notable one bound in the prison, a murderer who is 
called Barabbas, and Jesus who is called Christ, in whom I find no cause of 
death. Whom do you wish that I should release unto you? And they all cried out, 
saying: Release unto us Barabbas. Pilate says to them: What, then, am I to do 
with Jesus who is called Christ? They all say: Let him be crucified. Again the 
Jews said: Thou art no friend of Caesar's if thou release; this man, for he 
called himself the Son of God, and a king; unless, perhaps, thou wishest this 
man to be king, and not Caesar.
Then, filled with fury, Pilate said to them: Always has your nation been 
seditious, and always have you been opposed to those who were for you. The Jews 
answered: Who are for us? Pilate says to them: Your God,-who rescued you from 
the hard slavery of the Egyptians, and led you forth out of Egypt through the 
sea as if through dry land, and fed you in the desert with manna and quail, and 
brought water to you out of the rock, and gave you to drink, and gave you a law; 
and in all these things you provoked your God, and sought for yourselves a god, 
a molten calf. And you exasperated your God, and He wished to slay you; and 
Moses made supplication for you, that ye should not die. And now you say that I 
hate the king.
And rising up from the tribunal, he wished to go outside. And the Jews cried 
out, and said to him: We know that Caesar is king, and not Jesus. For the Magi 
also presented gifts to him as to a king; and Herod, hearing from the Magi that 
a king was born, wished to slay him. But when this was known, his father Joseph 
took him and his mother, and fled into Egypt; and Herod hearing, destroyed the 
infants of the Jews which were born in Bethlehem.
Pilate, hearing those words, was afraid. And silence being made among the 
people, who were crying out, Pilate said: This, then, is he whom Herod sought? 
They say to him: It is he. And taking water, Pilate washed his hands in presence 
of the people, saying: I am innocent of the blood of this just man; see ye to 
it. Again the Jews cried out, saying: His blood be upon us, and upon our 
children.
Then Pilate ordered the veil to be loosened,
and said to Jesus: Thine own nation have brought charges against thee as a king; 
and therefore I have sentenced thee first to be scourged on account of the 
statutes of the emperors, and then to be crucified on a cross.

Chapter 10.
And when Jesus was scourged, he delivered Him to the Jews to be crucified, 
and two robbers with Him; one by name Dismas, and the other by name Gestas. And 
when they came to the place, they stripped Him of His garments, and girt Him 
about with a linen cloth, and put a crown of thorns upon His head. Likewise also 
they hanged the two robbers with Him, Dismas on the right and Gestas on the 
left. And Jesus said: Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And 
the soldiers parted His garments among them. And the people stood waiting; and 
their chief priests and judges mocked Him, saying among themselves: He saved 
others, now let him save himself; if he is the Son of God, let him come down 
from the cross. And the soldiers mocked Him, falling prostrate 
before Him, and offering vinegar with gall, and saying: If thou art the King of 
the Jews, set thyself free.
And Pilate, after sentence, ordered a title to be written in Hebrew. Greek, 
and Latin letters, according to what the Jews said: This is the King of the 
Jews.
And one of the robbers who were hanged, by name Gestas, said to Him: 
If thou art the Christ, free thyself and us. And Dismas answering, rebuked him, 
saying: Dost not even thou fear God, who art in this condemnation? for we justly 
and deservedly have received those things which we endure; but He has done no 
evil. And he kept saying to Jesus: Remember me, Lord, in Thy kingdom. And Jesus 
said to him: Verily I say unto thee, that to-day shalt thou be with me in 
paradise.

Chapter 11.
And it was about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over the whole earth; 
and the sun was obscured, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst. And 
crying out with a loud voice, He said: Father, into Thy hands I commend my 
spirit. And thus saying, He gave up the ghost. And the centurion, seeing what 
was done, glorified God, saying: This was a just man. And all the people who 
were present at that spectacle, seeing what was done, beating their breasts, 
returned.
And the centurion reported to the governor what was done. And the governor 
and his wife hearing, were very sorrowful, and neither ate nor drank that day. 
And Pilate, calling together the Jews, said to them: Have you seen what has been 
done? And they said to the governor: There has been an eclipse of the sun, as is 
usual.
And his acquaintances also stood afar off, and the women who had followed Him 
from Galilee, seeing these things. And lo, a certain man, by name Joseph, 
holding office, a man good and just, who did not consent to their counsels nor 
their deeds, from Arimathaea,
a city of the Jews, waiting, he also, for the kingdom of God, went to Pilate and 
begged the body of Jesus. And taking Him down from the cross, he wrapped Him in 
clean linen, and laid Him in his own new tomb, in which no one had been 
laid.

Chapter 12.
And the Jews, hearing that Joseph had begged the body of Jesus, sought for 
him; and those twelve men who had said that He was not born of fornication, and 
Nicodemus, and many others, who had stood before Pilate and declared His good 
works. And all of them being hid, Nicodemus alone appeared to them, because he 
was a chief man of the Jews; and he says to them: How have ye come into the 
synagogue? The Jews say to him: And thou, how hast thou come into the synagogue, 
seeing that thou consentest with him? May his portion be with thee in the world 
to come! Nicodemus said: Amen, amen, amen. Likewise also Joseph, coming forth, 
said to them: Why are you enraged against me because I begged the body of Jesus? 
Lo, I have laid him in my own new tomb, wrapping him in clean linen; and I have 
rolled a stone to the door of the cave. And ye have not acted well against a 
just man, since you have not borne in mind how you crucified him, and pierced 
him with a lance. The Jews therefore, laying hold of Joseph, ordered him to be 
imprisoned because of the Sabbath-day; and they say to him: Know that the hour 
compels us not to do anything against thee, because the Sabbath is dawning. But 
understand that thou art worthy not even of burial, but we will give thy, flesh 
to the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth. Joseph says to them: That 
is the speech of proud Goliath, who reviled the living God against holy David. 
And God hath said, Vengeance is mine; I will repay, saith the Lord. And Pilate, 
intercepted
in his heart, took water, and washed his hands before the sun, saying, I am 
innocent of the blood of this just man; see ye to it. And you answered and said 
to Pilate, His blood be upon us, and upon our children. And now I fear that some 
time or other the wrath of God will come upon you and your children, as you have 
said. And the Jews, hearing this, were embittered in heart; and taking Joseph, 
shut him up in a house where there was no window, and set guards at the gates, 
and sealed the gate where Joseph had been shut up.
And on the Sabbath morning they took counsel with the priests and the 
Levites, that they should all be assembled after the Sabbath-day. And awaking at 
dawn, all the multitude in the synagogue took counsel by what death they should 
slay him. And when the assembly was sitting, they ordered him to be brought with 
much indignity; and opening the gate, they found him not. All the people 
therefore were in terror, and wondered with exceeding astonishment, because they 
found the seals sealed, and because Caiaphas had the keys. And no longer did 
they dare to lay hand upon those who spoke before Pilate in Jesus' defence.

Chapter 13.
And while they were sitting in the synagogue, and recriminating about Joseph, 
there came certain of the guards whom they had asked from Pilate to guard the 
sepulchre of Jesus, lest His disciples coming should steal Him. And they 
reported, saying to the rulers of the synagogue, and the priests and the 
Levites, what had happened: how there had happened a great earthquake, and we 
saw how an angel of the Lord came down from heaven, and rolled away the stone 
from the door of the tomb, and sat upon it; and his countenance was like 
lightning, and his raiment like snow. And for fear. we became as dead. And we 
heard the voice of the angel speaking to the women who had come to the 
sepulchre, and saying, Be not ye afraid; for I know that ye seek Jesus who was 
crucified: He is not here; He has risen, as He said: come and see the place 
where the Lord was laid. And go immediately and tell His disciples that He has 
risen from the dead, and will go before you into Galilee, as He said to you.
The Jews say: To what women was he speaking? The soldiers say: We do not know 
who the women were. The Jews say: At what hour was it? The guards say: At 
midnight. The Jews say: And why did you not detain them? The guards say: We 
became as dead from fear of the angel, not hoping now to see the light of day; 
and how could we detain them? The Jews says: As the Lord God liveth, we 
do not believe you. And the guards said to the Jews: You have seen so great 
signs in that man, and have not believed; and how can you believe us, that the 
Lord lives? For well have ye sworn that the Lord Jesus Christ lives. Again the 
guards say to the Jews: we have heard that you have shut up Joseph, who begged 
the body of Jesus, in the prison, and have sealed it with your rings; and on 
opening, that you have not found him. Give us Joseph, then, and we shall give 
you Jesus Christ. The Jews said: Joseph has gone to Arimathea, his own city. The 
guards say to the Jews: And Jesus, as we have heard from the angel, is in 
Galilee.
And the Jews, hearing these sayings, feared exceedingly, saying: Lest at some 
time or other this saying be heard, and all believe in Jesus. And the Jews, 
taking counsel among themselves, brought forth a sufficient number of silver 
pieces, and gave to the soldiers, saying: Say that, while we slept, his 
disciples came and stole him. And if this be heard by the governor, we shall 
persuade
him, and make you secure. And the soldiers, taking the money, said as 
they were advised by the Jews; and their saying was spread abroad among all.

Chapter 14.
And Finees a certain priest, and Addas a teacher, and Egias a Levite, coming 
down from Galilee to Jerusalem, reported to the rulers of the synagogue, and the 
priests and the Levites, how they had seen Jesus sitting, and his disciples with 
him, on tile Mount of Olivet, which is called Mambre or Malech. And he said to 
his disciples: Go into all the world, and declare to every creature the Gospel 
of the kingdom of God. He who believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he 
who believeth not shall be condemned. And these signs shall follow them who 
believe: In my name shall they cast out demons; they shall speak in new tongues; 
they shall take up serpents; and if they have drunk any deadly thing, it shall 
not hurt them; they shall lay hands upon the sick, and they shall be well. And 
as Jesus was thus speaking to his disciples, we saw him taken up into 
heaven.

The priests and the Levites and the elders say to them: Give glory to the God 
of Israel, and give confession to Him, whether you have both heard and seen 
those things which you have related. Those who had made the report say: As the 
Lord God of our fathers liveth, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and 
the God of Jacob, we have heard and seen. The Jews say to them: Have you come 
for this-to tell us? or have you come to give prayer to God? They said: We have 
come to give prayer to God. The elders and chief priests and Levites say to 
them: And if you have come to give prayer to God, why have you murmured before 
all the people about that foolish tale? Finees the priest, and Addas the 
teacher, and Egias the Levite, say to the rulers of the synagogue, and the 
priests and the Levites: If those words which we have spoken, which we have seen 
and heard, be sin, behold, we are in your presence; do unto us according to that 
which is good in your eyes. And they, taking the law, adjured them to report the 
words to no one thereafter. And they gave them to eat and drink, and put them 
outside of the city, giving them silver and pieces, and three men with them, who 
should conduct them as far as Galilee.
Then the Jews took counsel among themselves when those men had gone up into 
Galilee; and the rulers of the synagogue shut themselves in, and were cut 
up
with great fury, saying: What sign is this which hath come to pass in Israel? 
And Annas and Caiaphas say: Why are your souls sorrowful? Are we to believe the 
soldiers, that an angel of the Lord came down from heaven, and rolled away the 
stone from the door of the tomb? No; but that his disciples have given 
much gold to those who were guarding the sepulchre, and have taken Jesus away, 
and have taught them thus to say: Say ye that an angel of the Lord came down 
from heaven, and rolled away the stone from the door of the tomb. Do you not 
know that it is unlawful for Jews to believe foreigners in a single word, 
knowing that these same who received sufficient gold from us have said as we 
taught them?

Chapter 15.
And Nicodemus rising up, stood in the midst of the counsel, and said: You 
have said rightly. And are not the men who have come down from Galilee 
God-fearing, men of peace, hating a lie? And they recounted with an oath, how 
"we saw Jesus sitting on Mount Mambre with his disciples, and he taught them in 
our hearing," and that they saw him taken up into heaven. And no one asked them 
this: How he was taken up into heaven. And, as the writing of the holy book 
teaches us, holy Elias too was taken up into heaven, and Elisaeus cried out with 
a loud voice, and Elias threw his sheepskin over Elisaeus; and again Elisaeus 
threw that sheepskin over the Jordan, and went over and came to Jericho. And the 
sons of the prophets met him, and said to Elisaeus, Where is thy master Elias? 
And he said, He has been taken up into heaven. And they said to Elisaeus, Has a 
spirit snatched him away, and thrown him upon one of the mountains? But rather 
let us take our boys
with us and seek him. And they persuaded Elisaeus, and he went with them. And 
they sought him for three days and three nights, and found him not, because he 
was taken up. And now, men, hear me, and let us send into all Israel, and see 
lest Jesus can have been taken up somewhere or other, and thrown upon one of the 
mountains. And that saying pleased all. And they sent to all the mountains of 
Israel to seek Jesus, and they found Him not; but they found Joseph of 
Arimathaea, and no one dared to lay hold of him.
And they reported to the elders and priests and Levites: We have gone round 
all the mountains of Israel, and not found Jesus; but we have found Joseph in 
Arimathaea. And hearing of Joseph, they rejoiced, and gave glory to the God of 
Israel. And the rulers of the synagogue, and the priests and the Levites, taking 
counsel in what manner they should send to Joseph, took paper, and wrote to 
Joseph:-
Peace to thee and all that is thine! We know that we have sinned against God, 
and against thee; and thou hast prayed to the God of Israel, and He has 
delivered thee out of our hands. And now deign to come to thy fathers and thy 
children, because we have been vehemently grieved. We have all sought for 
thee-we who opened the door, and found thee not. We know that we counselled evil 
counsel against thee; but the Lord hath supplanted our counsel against thee. 
Thou art worthy to be honoured, father Joseph, by all the people.
And they chose out of all Israel seven men friendly to Joseph, whom also 
Joseph knew to be friendly; and the rulers of the synagogue and the priests and 
the Levites say to them: See, if he take the letter and read it, for certain he 
will come with you to us; but if he do not read it, you may know that he is 
ill-disposed toward us, and, saluting him in peace, return to us. And blessing 
them, they sent them away. And they came to Arimathaea to Joseph, and adored him 
on their face upon the ground, and said: Peace to thee and all thine! And Joseph 
said: Peace to you, and to all the people of Israel! And they gave him the roll 
of the letter. And Joseph took and read it, and rolled up the letter, and 
blessed God, and said: Blessed be the Lord God, who hath delivered Israel 
from shedding innocent blood; and blessed be God, who sent His angel, and 
covered me under his wings. And he kissed them, and set a table for them; and 
they ate and drank, and slept there.
And they rose in the morning; and Joseph saddled his ass, and travelled with 
them, and they came into the holy city Jerusalem. And there met them all the 
people, crying out, and saying: Peace be in thy coming in, father Joseph! 
To whom he answered and said: The peace of the Lord be upon all the 
people! And they all kissed him. And they prayed with Joseph, and were terrified 
at the sight of him. And Nicodemus took him into his house, and made a great 
feast, and called Annas and Caiaphas, and the elders and chief priests and 
Levites, to his house. And making merry, and eating and drinking with Joseph, 
they blessed God, and went every one to his own house. And Joseph remained in 
the house of Nicodemus.
And on the next day, which is the preparation, the priests and the rulers of 
the synagogue and the Levites rose early, and came to the house of Nicodemus. 
And Nicodemus met them, and said to them: Peace to you! And they said to him: 
Peace to thee and Joseph, and to thy house and Joseph's house! And Nicodemus 
brought them into his house. And the council sat; and Joseph sat between Annas 
and Caiaphas, and no one dared to say a word. And Joseph said to them: Why have 
you called me? And they made signs with their eyes to Nicodemus, that he should 
speak with Joseph. And Nicodemus, opening his mouth, said: Father Joseph, thou 
knowest that the reverend teachers, priests, and Levites seek to hear a word 
from thee. And Joseph said: Ask. And Annas and Caiaphas, taking up the law, 
adjured Joseph, saying: Give glory to the God of Israel, and give confession to 
Him, that thou wilt not hide any word
from us. And they said to him: With grief were we grieved that thou didst beg 
the body of Jesus, and wrap it in clean linen, and lay it in a tomb. Therefore 
we shut thee up in a house where there was no window, and put a lock and a seal 
on the gate; and on the first day of the week we opened the gates, and found 
thee not. We were therefore exceedingly grieved, and astonishment came over all 
the people of God. And therefore hast thou been sent for; and now tell us what 
has happened.
Then said Joseph: On the day of the Preparation, about the tenth hour, you 
shut me in, and I remained there the whole Sabbath in full. And when midnight 
came, as I was standing and praying, the house where you shut me in was hung up 
by the four corners, and there was a flashing of light in mine eyes. And I fell 
to the ground trembling. Then some one lifted me up from the place where I had 
fallen, and poured over me an abundance of water from the head even to the feet, 
and put round my nostrils the odour of a wonderful ointment, and rubbed my face 
with the water itself, as if washing me, and kissed me, and said to me, Joseph, 
fear not; but open thine eyes, and see who it is that speaks to thee. And 
looking, I saw Jesus; and being terrified, I thought it was a phantom. And with 
prayer and the commandments I spoke to him, and he spoke with me. And I said to 
him: Art thou Rabbi Elias? And he said to me: I am not Elias. And I said: Who 
art thou, my lord? And he said to me: I am Jesus, whose body thou didst beg from 
Pilate, and wrap in clean linen; and thou didst lay a napkin on my face, and 
didst lay me in thy new tomb, and roll a stone to the door of the tomb. Then I 
said to him that was speaking to me: Show me, Lord, where I laid thee. And he 
led me, and showed me the place where I laid him, and the linen which I had put 
on him, and the napkin which I had wrapped upon his face; and I knew that it was 
Jesus. And he took hold of me with his hand, and put me in the midst of my house 
though the gates were shut, and put me in my bed, and said to me: Peace to thee! 
And he kissed me, and said to me: For forty days go not out of thy house; for, 
lo, I go to my brethren into Galilee.

Chapter 16.
And the rulers of the synagogue, and the priests and the Levites, hearing 
these words from Joseph, became as it were dead, and fell to the ground, and 
fasted until the ninth hour. And Joseph and Nicodemus entreated them, saying: 
Arise and stand upon your feet, and taste bread, and comfort your souls, seeing 
that to-morrow is the Sabbath of the Lord. And they arose, and entreated the 
Lord, and ate and drank, and went every man to his own house.
And on the Sabbath the teachers and doctors sat questioning each other, and 
saying: What is this wrath that has come upon us? because we know his father and 
mother. Levi the teacher said: I know that his parents fear God, and never 
depart from prayer, and give tithes thrice a-year. And when Jesus was born, his 
parents brought him up to this place, and gave to God sacrifices and 
burnt-offerings. And assuredly the great teacher Simeon took him into his arms, 
saying: Now Thou sendest away Thy servant, O Lord, according to Thy word, in 
peace; for mine eyes have seen Thy salvation, which Thou hast prepared before 
the face of all peoples, a light for the revealing of the nations, and the glory 
of Thy people Israel. And he blessed Mary his mother, and said, I make an 
announcement to thee concerning this child. And Mary said, Well, my lord.
And Simeon said, Well. And he said again, Lo, he has been set for the fall and 
rising again of many in Israel, and for a sign which shall be spoken against; 
and a sword shall pierce thine own soul, that the thoughts of many hearts may be 
revealed.
And the Jews said to Levi: And how knowest thou these things? Levi says: Do 
you note know that from him I learned the law? They of the council say: We wish 
to see thy father. And they searched out his father, and got information; for he 
said: Why did you not believe my son? The blessed and just Simeon taught him the 
law. The council says to Rabbi Levi: The saying which thou hast spoken is true. 
The chief priests and rulers of the synagogue, and Levites, said to each other: 
Come, let us send into Galilee to the three men who came hither and gave an 
account of his teaching and his being taken up, and let them tell us how they 
saw him taken up into heaven. And that saying pleased all. Then they sent three 
men into Galilee; and Go, said they, say to Rabbi Addas and Rabbi Finees and 
Rabbi Egias, Peace to you and yours! Many investigations have been made in the 
council concerning Jesus; therefore have we been instructed to call you to the 
holy place, to Jerusalem.
The men went to Galilee, and found them sitting, and meditating on the law. 
And they saluted them in peace. And they said: Why have you come? The messengers 
said: The council summon you to the holy city Jerusalem. And the men, hearing 
that they were sought for by the council, prayed to God, and reclined with the 
men, and ate and drank with them. And rising in the morning, they went to 
Jerusalem in peace.
And on the morrow the council sat; and they questioned them, saying: Did you 
plainly see Jesus sitting on Mount Mambre teaching his disciples, and taken up 
into heaven?
First Addas the teacher says: I really saw him sitting on Mount Mambre 
teaching his disciples; and a shining cloud overshadowed him and his disciples, 
and he went up into heaven; and his disciples prayed upon their faces on the 
ground. And calling Finees the priest, they questioned him also, saying: How 
didst thou see Jesus taken up? And he said the same as the other. And again they 
called the third, Rabbi Egias, and questioned him, and he said the same as the 
first and second. And those who were in the council said: The law of Moses holds 
that by the mouth of two or three every word should stand. Abudem, a teacher, 
one of the doctors, says: It is written in the law, Enoch walked with God, and 
was translated; for God took him. Jairus, a teacher, said: And we have heard of 
the death of holy Moses, and have not seen it; for it is written in the 
law of the Lord, And Moses died according to the word
of the Lord, and no man knoweth of his burying even to the present day. Rabbi 
Levi said: What is it that Rabbi Simeon said: Lo, he lies for the fall and 
rising again of many in Israel, and for a sign which shall be spoken against? 
Rabbi Isaac said: It is written in the law, Lo, I send mine angel, who shall go 
before thy face to keep thee in every good way, because I have brought 
his
new name.
Then Annas and Caiaphas said: Rightly have ye said that these things are 
written in the law of Moses, that no one saw the death of Enoch, and no one has 
named the burying of holy Moses. And Jesus gave account to
Pilate, and we saw him scourged, and receiving spitting on his face; and the 
soldiers put a crown of thorns on him, and he received sentence from Pilate; and 
then he was crucified, and they gave him gall and vinegar to drink, and two 
robbers were crucified with him, and the soldier Longinus pierced his side with 
a lance; and our honourable father Joseph begged his body, and he has risen 
again, and, as they say, the three teachers have seen him taken up into heaven. 
And Rabbi Levi has borne witness to what was said by Simeon the elder-that he 
has been set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel, and for a sign 
which shall be spoken against.
Then Didas, a teacher, said to all the assembly: If all the things which 
these have borne witness to have come to pass in Jesus, they are from God, and 
let it not be wonderful in our eyes.
The chiefs of the synagogue, and the priests and the Levites, said to each other 
how our law holds, saying: His name shall be blessed for ever: His place 
endureth before the sun, and His seat before the moon: and all the tribes of 
earth shall be blessed in Him, and all nations shall serve Him; and kings shall 
come from far, adoring and magnifying Him.


Latin. First Version
Chapter 1 (17).
And Joseph rose up and said to Annas and Caiaphas: Truly and well do you 
wonder, since you have heard that Jesus has been seen alive from the dead, 
ascending up into heaven. But it is more to be wondered at that he is not the 
only one who has risen from the dead: but he has raised up alive out of their 
tombs many others of the dead, and they have been seen by many in Jerusalem. And 
hear me now, that we all know the blessed Simeon, the great priest, who took up 
with his hands Jesus, when an infant, in the temple. And Simeon himself had two 
sons, full brothers; and we all were at their filling asleep, and at their 
burial. Go, therefore, and see their tombs: for they are open, because they have 
risen; and, behold, they are in the city of Arimathaea, living together in 
prayers. And, indeed, they are heard crying out, but speaking with nobody, and 
they are silent as the dead. But come, let us go to them; let us conduct them to 
us with all honour and respect. And if we adjure them, perhaps they will speak 
to us of the mystery of their resurrection.
At hearing this they all rejoiced. And Annas and Caiaphas, Nicodemus, and 
Joseph, and Gamaliel, went, and did not find them in their sepulchres; but, 
walking into the city of Arimathea, they found them there, on their bended 
knees, and spending their time in prayer. And kissing them, they conducted them 
to Jerusalem, into the synagogue, with all veneration and fear of God. And 
shutting the doors, and lifting up the law of the Lord, they put it in their 
hands, adjuring them by the God Adonai, and the God of Israel, who by the law 
and the prophets spoke to our fathers, saying: Do you believe that it was Jesus 
who raised you from the dead? Tell us how you have risen from the dead.
Karinus and Leucius, hearing this adjuration, trembled in their body, and 
groaned, being disturbed in heart. And together they looked towards heaven, and 
with their fingers made the sign of the cross on their tongues, and immediately 
they spoke together, saying: Give each of us sheets of paper, and let us write 
what we have seen and heard. And they gave it to them. And they sat down, and 
each of them wrote, saying:-

Chapter 2 (18).
O Lord Jesus Christ, the resurrection and the life of the dead, permit us to 
speak mysteries through the death of Thy cross, because we have been adjured by 
Thee. For Thou didst order Thy servants to relate to no one the secrets of Thy 
divine majesty which Thou didst in Hades. And when we were, along with all our 
fathers, lying in the deep, in the blackness of darkness, suddenly there 
appeared a golden heat
of the sun, and a purple royal light shining upon us. And immediately the father 
of all the human race, with all the patriarchs and prophets, exulted, saying: 
That light is the source of eternal light, which hath promised to transmit to us 
co-eternal light. And Esaias cried out, and said: This is the light of the 
Father, the Son of God, as I predicted when I was alive upon earth: The land of 
Zabulon and the land of Nephthalim across Jordan, Galilee of the nations, the 
people who sat in darkness, have seen a great light; and light was shining among 
those who are in the region of the shadow of death. And now it has come and 
shone upon us sitting in death.
And when we were all exulting in the light which shone over us, there came up 
to us our father Simeon; and he said, exulting: Glorify the Lord Jesus Christ, 
the Son of God; because I took Him up when born, an infant, in my hands in the 
temple; and instigated by the Holy Spirit, I said to Him, confessing: Now mine 
eyes have seen Thy salvation, which Thou hast prepared in the sight of all 
peoples, a light for the revealing of the nations, and the glory of Thy people 
Israel. When they beard this, all the multitude of the saints exulted more.
And after this there comes up, as it were, a dweller in the desert; and he is 
asked by all: Who art thou? To whom he says in answer: I am John, the voice and 
prophet of the Most High, going before the face of His coming to prepare His 
ways, to give the knowledge of salvation to His people for the remission of 
their sins. And seeing Him coming to me, instigated by the Holy Spirit, I said: 
Behold the Lamb of God! behold Him who taketh away the sins of the world! And I 
baptized Him in the river of Jordan, and I saw the Holy Spirit descending upon 
Him in the form of a dove; and I heard a voice from the heavens saying, This is 
my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. And now I have gone before His face, 
and have descended to announce to you that the rising Son of God is close at 
hand to visit us, coming from on high to us sitting in darkness and the shadow 
of death.

Chapter 3 (19).
And when the first created, father Adam, had heard this, that Jesus was 
baptized in Jordan, he cried out to his son Seth: Tell thy sons, the patriarchs 
and the prophets, all that thou heardest from Michael the archangel when I sent 
thee to the gates of paradise to implore God that he might send thee His angel 
to give thee oil from the tree of mercy, with which to anoint my body when I was 
sick. Then Seth, coming near to the holy patriarchs and prophets, said: When I, 
Seth, was praying to the Lord at the gates of paradise, behold Michael, the 
angel of the Lord, appeared to me, saying, I have been sent to thee by the Lord. 
I am set over the human race.
And to thee, Seth, I say, do not labour with tears in prayers and supplications 
on account of the oil of the tree of mercy to anoint thy father Adam for the 
pain of his body, because in no wise shalt thou receive of it, except in the 
last days and times, except when five thousand and five hundred years have been 
fulfilled: then will come upon the earth the most beloved Son of God, to raise 
up again the body of Adam, and the bodies of the dead; and He, when He comes, 
will be baptized in Jordan. And when he shall have come out of the water of 
Jordan, then with the oil of His mercy shall He anoint all that believe on Him; 
and that oil of mercy shall be for the generation of those who shall be born out 
of water and the Holy Spirit into life eternal. Then, descending upon earth, 
Christ Jesus, the most beloved Son of God, will lead our father Adam into 
paradise to the tree of mercy.
And when they heard all these things from Seth, all the patriarchs and 
prophets exulted with great exultation.

Chapter 4 (20).
And when all the saints were exulting, lo, Satan, the prince and leader of 
death, said to Hades: Make thyself ready to receive Jesus, who boasts himself to 
be the Son of God, and is a man fearing death, and saying, My soul is sorrowful, 
even unto death. And he has withstood me much, doing me evil; and many whom I 
made blind, lame, deaf, leprous, and demoniac, he has healed with a word; and 
those whom I have brought to thee dead, he has dragged away from thee.
Hades, answering, said to Prince Satan: Who is he that is so powerful, when 
he is a man in fear of death? For all the powerful of the earth are kept in 
subjection by my power, whom thou hast brought into subjection by thy power. If 
then, thou art powerful, what is that man Jesus like, who, though fearing death, 
withstands thy power? If he is so powerful in humanity, verily I say unto thee, 
he is all-powerful in divinity, and his power can no one resist. And when he 
says that he fears death, he wishes to lay hold on thee, and woe will be to thee 
to the ages of eternity. And Satan, prince of Tartarus, answered and said: Why 
hast thou doubted, and feared to receive this Jesus, thy adversary and mine? For 
I have tempted him, and I have roused up my ancient people the Jews with hatred 
and anger against him; I have sharpened a lance to strike him; I have mixed gall 
and vinegar to give him to drink; and I have prepared wood to crucify him, and 
nails to pierce him, and his death is near at hand, that I may bring him to 
thee, subject to thee and me.
Tartarus answered and said: Thou hast told me that it is he himself who has 
dragged away the dead from me. Now there are many who are here kept by me, who, 
while they lived on earth, took the dead from me, not by their own powers, but 
by godly prayers, and their almighty God dragged them away from me. Who is that 
Jesus, who by his word has withdrawn the dead from me without prayers? Perhaps 
he is the same who, by, the word of his command, brought alive Lazarus, after he 
had been four days in stench and corruption, whom I kept dead. Satan prince of 
death answered and said: That Jesus is the same. And when Hades heard this he 
said to him: I adjure thee by thy powers and mine, do not bring him to me. For I 
at that time, when I heard the command of his word, trembled with terror and 
dismay, and all my officers at the same time were confounded along with me. Nor 
could we keep that Lazarus; but, shaking himself like an eagle, he sprang out, 
and went forth from us with all activity and speed, and the same ground which 
held the dead body of Lazarus immediately gave him forth alive. So now, I know 
that that man who could do these things is God, strong in authority, powerful in 
humanity, and He is the Saviour of the human race. But if thou bring Him to me, 
all who are here shut up in the cruelty of the prison, and bound by their sins 
in chains that cannot be loosened, He will let loose, and will bring to the life 
of His divinity for ever.

Chapter 5 (21).
And as Prince Satan and Hades were thus speaking to each other in turn, 
suddenly there was a voice as of thunders, and a shouting of spirits: Lift up 
your gates, ye princes; and be ye lifted up, ye everlasting gates; and the King 
of glory shall come in.
Hades hearing this, said to Prince Satan: Retire from me, and go outside of my 
realms: if thou art a powerful warrior, fight against the King of glory. But 
what hast thou to do with Him? And Hades thrust Satan outside of his realms. And 
Hades said to his impious officers: Shut the cruel gates of brass, and put up 
the bars of iron, and resist bravely, that we, holding captivity, may not take 
Him captive.

And all the multitude of the saints, hearing this, said to Hades, with the 
voice of reproach: Open thy gates, that the King of glory may come in. And David 
cried out, saying: Did I not, when I was alive upon earth, prophesy to you: Let 
them confess to the Lord His tender mercies and His wonderful works to the 
children of men: for He has shattered the brazen gates, and burst the iron bars; 
He has taken them up out of the way of their iniquity?
And after this, in like manner, Esaias said: Did not I, when I was alive upon 
earth, prophesy to you: The dead shall rise up, and those who are in their tombs 
shall rise again, and those who are upon earth shall exult; because the dew, 
which is from the Lord, is their health?
And again I said, Where, O Death, is thy sting? where, O Hades, is thy 
victory?

And when all the saints heard this from Esaias, they said to Hades: Open thy 
gates. Since thou art now conquered, thou wilt be weak and powerless. And there 
was a great voice, as of thunders, saying: Lift up your gates, ye princes; and 
be ye lifted up, ye infernal gates; and the King of glory shall come in. Hades, 
seeing that they had twice shouted out this, says, as if not knowing: Who is the 
king of glory? David says, in answer to Hades: I recognise those words of the 
shout, since I prophesied the same by His Spirit. And now, what I have said 
above I say to thee, The Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle; He 
is the King of glory.
And the Lord Himself hath looked down from heaven upon earth, to hear the groans 
of the prisoners, and to release the sons of the slain. 
And now, most filthy and most foul Hades, open thy gates, that the King of glory 
may come in. While David was thus speaking, there came to Hades, in the form of 
a man, the Lord of majesty, and lighted up the eternal darkness, and burst 
asunder the indissoluble chains; and the aid of unconquered power visited us, 
sitting in the profound darkness of transgressions, and in the shadow of death 
of sins.


Chapter 6 (22).
When this was seen by Hades and Death, and their impious officers, along with 
their cruel servants, they trembled at perceiving in their own dominions the 
clearness of so great a light, when they saw Christ suddenly in their abodes; 
and they cried out, saying: We have been overcome by thee. Who art thou, that to 
the Lord directest our confusion?
Who art thou, that, undestroyed by corruption, the uncorrupted proof of thy 
majesty, with fury condemnest our power? Who art thou, so great and little, 
lowly and exalted, soldier and commander, wonderful warrior in the form of a 
slave, and the king of glory dead and alive, whom slain the cross has carried? 
Thou, who didst lie dead in the sepulchre, hast come down to us alive; and in 
thy death every creature trembled, and the stars in a body were moved; and now 
thou hast been made free among the dead, and disturbest our legions. Who art 
thou, that settest free those who art held captive, bound by original sin, and 
recallest them to their former liberty? Who art thou, who sheddest a divine, and 
splendid, and illuminating light upon those who have been blinded by the 
darkness of their sins?
In like manner, also, all the legions of the demons, terror-stricken with 
like fear from their fearful overthrow, cried out, saying: Whence art thou, O 
Jesus, a man so powerful and splendid in majesty, so excellent, without spot, 
and free from guilt? For that world of earth which has been subject to us always 
until now, which used to pay tribute for our uses, has never sent us such a dead 
man, has never destined such gifts for the powers below. Who therefore art thou, 
that hast so intrepidly entered our bounds, and who hast not only no fear of our 
punishments, but, moreover, attemptest to take all away from our chains? Perhaps 
thou art that Jesus of whom our prince Satan said, that by thy death of the 
cross thou wast destined to receive the dominion of the whole world.
Then the King of glory, trampling on death by His majesty, and seizing Prince 
Satan, delivered him to the power of Hades, and drew Adam to His brightness.

Chapter 7 (23).
Then Hades, receiving Prince Satan, said to him, with vehement revilings: O 
prince of perdition, and leader of extermination, Beelzebub, derision of angels, 
to be spit upon by the just, why didst thou wish to do this? Didst thou wish to 
crucify the King of glory, in whose death thou didst promise us so great spoils? 
Like a fool, thou didst not know what thou wast doing. For, behold, that Jesus 
by the splendour of His divinity is putting to flight all the darkness of death, 
and He has broken into the strong lowest depths of our dungeons, and has brought 
out the captives, and released those who were bound. And all who used to groan 
under our torments insult us, and by their prayers our dominions are taken by 
stem, and our realms conquered, and no race of men has now any respect for us. 
Moreover, also, we are grievously threatened by the dead, who have never been 
haughty to us, and who have not at any time been joyful as captives. O Prince 
Satan, father of all impious wretches and renegades, why didst thou wish to do 
this? Of those who from the beginning, even until now, have despaired of 
salvation and life, no bellowing after the usual fashion is now heard here; and 
no groaning of theirs resounds, nor in any of their faces is a trace of tears 
found. O Prince Satan, possessor of the keys of the lower regions, all thy 
riches which thou hadst acquired by the tree of transgression and the loss of 
paradise, thou hast now lost by the tree of the cross, and all thy joy has 
perished. When thou didst hang up that Christ Jesus the King of glory, thou wast 
acting against thyself and against me. Henceforth thou shall know what eternal 
torments and infinite punishments thou art to endure in my everlasting keeping. 
O Prince Satan, author of death, and source of all pride, thou oughtest first to 
have inquired into the bad cause of that Jesus. Him in whom thou perceivedst no 
fault, why, without reason, didst thou dare unjustly to crucify? and why hast 
thou brought to our regions one innocent and just, and lost the guilty, the 
impious, and the unjust of the whole world?
And when Hades had thus spoken to Prince Satan, then the King of glory said 
to Hades: Satan the prince will be in thy power for ever, in place of Adam and 
his sons, my just ones.

Chapter 8 (24).
And the Lord stretched out His hand, and said: Come to me, all my saints, who 
have my image and likeness. Do you, who have been condemned through the tree and 
the devil and death, now see the devil and death condemned through the tree. 
Immediately all the saints were brought together under the hand of the Lord. And 
the Lord, holding Adam by the right hand, said to him: Peace be to thee, with 
all thy children, my righteous ones! And Adam fell down at the knees of the 
Lord, and with tearful entreaty praying, said with a loud voice: I will extol 
Thee, O Lord; for Thou hast lifted me up, and hast not made my foes to rejoice 
over me. O Lord God, I cried unto Thee, and Thou hast healed me. O Lord, Thou 
hast brought out my soul from the powers below; Thou hast saved me from them 
that go down into the pit. Sing praises to the Lord, all His saints, and confess 
to the memory of His holiness; since there is anger in His indignation, and life 
in His goodwill. 
In like manner also all the saints of God, falling on their knees at the feet of 
the Lord, said with one voice: Thou hast come, O Redeemer of the world: as Thou 
hast foretold by the law and Thy prophets, so hast Thou fulfilled by Thy deeds. 
Thou hast redeemed the living by Thy cross; and by the death of the cross Thou 
hast come down to us, to rescue us from the powers below, and from death, by Thy 
majesty. O Lord, as Thou hast set the title of Thy glory in heaven, and hast 
erected as the title of redemption Thy cross upon earth, so, O Lord, set in 
Hades the sign of the victory of Thy cross, that death may no more have 
dominion.
And the Lord, stretching forth His hand, made the sign of the cross upon Adam 
and upon all His saints; and holding Adam by the right hand, went up from the 
powers below: and all the saints followed Him. Then holy David cried out aloud, 
saying: Sing unto the Lord a new song, for He hath done wonderful things; His 
right hand and His holy arm have brought salvation to Himself. The Lord hath 
made known His salvation; His righteousness hath He revealed in the sight of the 
heathen.
And all the multitude of the saints answered, saying: This is glory to all His 
saints. Amen, alleluia.
And after this the prophet Habacuc cried out, saying: Thou wentest forth for 
the salvation of Thy people, to deliver Thine elect.
And all the saints answered, saying: Blessed is He who cometh in the name of the 
Lord; God is the Lord, and He hath shone upon us.
Amen, alleluia. In like manner after this the prophet Michae as also cried out, 
saying: Who is a God like unto thee, O Lord, taking away iniquities and passing 
by sins? And now Thou dost withhold Thine anger for a testimony against 
us, because Thou delightest in mercy. And Thou turnest again, and hast 
compassion upon us, and pardonest all our iniquities; and all our sins hast Thou 
sunk in the multitude of death, 
as Thou hast sworn unto our fathers in the days of old.
And all the saints answered, saying: This is our God to eternity, and for ever 
and ever; and He will direct us for evermore. 
Amen, alleluia. So also all the prophets, quoting the sacred writings 
concerning His praises,
and all the saints crying, Amen, alleluia, followed the Lord.

Chapter 9 (25).
And the Lord, holding the hand of Adam, delivered him to Michael the 
archangel: and all the saints followed Michael the archangel, and he led them 
all into the glorious grace of paradise. And there met them two men, ancient of 
days. The saints asked them: Who are you, that have not yet been dead, along 
with us in the regions below, and have been placed in paradise in the body? One 
of them answered, and said: I am Enoch, who by the word of the Lord have been 
translated hither; and he who is with me is Elias the Thesbite, who was taken up 
by a fiery chariot. Here also even until now we have not tasted death, but have 
been reserved to the coming of Antichrist, by divine signs and wonders to do 
battle with him, and, being killed by him in Jerusalem, after three days and 
half a day to be taken up alive again in the clouds.


Chapter 10 (26).
And while the saints Enoch and Elias were thus speaking, behold, there came 
up another man, most wretched, carrying on his shoulders the sign of the cross. 
And seeing him, all the saints said to him: Who art thou? because thy appearance 
is that of a robber. And what is the sign which thou carriest on thy shoulders? 
In answer to them, he said: Truly have you said that I was a robber, doing all 
sorts of evil upon the earth. And the Jews crucified me along with Jesus; and I 
saw the miracles in created things which were done through the cross of Jesus 
crucified, and I believed Him to be the Creator of all created things, and the 
King omnipotent; and I entreated Him, saying, Be mindful of me, Lord, when Thou 
shall have come into Thy kingdom. Immediately He accepted my entreaty, and said 
to me, Amen; I say to thee, To-day shalt thou be with me in paradise.
And He gave me this sign of the cross, saying, Walk into paradise carrying this; 
and if the guardian angel of paradise will not let thee go in, show him the sign 
of the cross, and thou shall say to him, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who has 
now been crucified, has sent me. Having done so, I said all this to the guardian 
angel of paradise. And when he heard this, he immediately opened, and led me in, 
and placed me at the right of paradise, saying, Lo, hold a little, and there 
will come in the father of the whole human race, Adam, with all his children, 
holy and just, after the triumph and glory of the ascension of Christ the 
crucified Lord. Hearing all these words of the robber, all the holy patriarchs 
and prophets with one voice said: Blessed art Thou, O Lord Almighty, Father of 
everlasting benefits, and Father of mercies, who hast given such grace to Thy 
sinners, and hast brought them back into the grace of paradise, and into Thy 
rich pastures; for this is spiritual life most sure. Amen, amen.

Chapter 11 (27).
These are the divine and sacred mysteries which we saw and heard, I Karinus, 
and Leucius. More we are not allowed to tell of the other mysteries of God, as 
Michael the archangel adjured us, and said: You shall go into Jerusalem with 
your brethren, and continue in prayers, and you shall cry out, and glorify the 
resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, who has raised you up again from the dead 
with Himself. And with none of men shall you speak; and you shall sit as if 
dumb, until the hour shall come when the Lord Himself shall permit you to relate 
the mysteries of His divinity. And Michael the archangel ordered us to walk 
across Jordan into a place rich and fertile, where there are many who rose again 
along with us for an evidence of the resurrection of Christ the Lord; because 
only three days were allowed to us who have risen from the dead to celebrate in 
Jerusalem the passover of the Lord, with our living relations, for an evidence 
of the resurrection of Christ the Lord: and we have been baptized in the holy 
river of Jordan, receiving each of us white robes. And after three days, when we 
had celebrated the passover of the Lord, all who rose again along with us were 
snatched up into the clouds. and taken across the Jordan, and were no longer 
seen by any one. But we were told to remain in the city of Arimathaea in 
prayers. 
These are the things which the Lord commanded us to relate to you. Give Him 
praise and confession, and be penitent, that He may have mercy upon you. Peace 
be to you from the same Lord Jesus Christ, and the Saviour of all of us! 
Amen.
And after they had finished all, writing on separate sheets of paper, they 
arose. And Karinus gave what he wrote into the hands of Annas and Caiaphas and 
Gamaliel; in like manner also Leucius gave what he wrote into the hands of 
Nicodemus and Joseph. And being suddenly transfigured, they became exceedingly 
white, and were seen no more. And their writings were found exactly the same, 
not one letter more or less.
All the synagogue of the Jews, hearing all these wonderful sayings of Karinus 
and Leucius, said to each other: Truly all these things have been done by the 
Lord, and blessed be the Lord for ever and ever. Amen. And they all went out 
with great anxiety, beating their breasts with fear and trembling; and they went 
away, each to his own house.
All these things which were said by the Jews in their synagogue Joseph and 
Nicodemus immediately reported to the proconsul. And Pilate himself wrote all 
which had been done and said concerning Jesus by the Jews, and he placed all the 
words in the public records of his praetorium.

Chapter 12 (28).
After this, Pilate going into the temple of the Jews, assembled all the chief 
priests, and learned men, and scribes, and teachers of the law, and went in with 
them into the sanctuary of the temple, and ordered that all the gates should be 
shut, and said to them: We have heard that you have a certain great collection 
of books in this temple: therefore I ask you that it be presented before us. And 
when four officers brought in that collection of books, adorned with gold and 
precious gems, Pilate said to all: I adjure you by the God of your fathers, who 
ordered you to build this temple in the place of his sanctuary, not to conceal 
the truth from me. You all know what is written in that collection of books; but 
now say whether you have found in the writings that Jesus, whom you have 
crucified, to be the Son of God that was to come for the salvation of the human 
race, and in how many revolutions of the seasons he ought to come. Declare to me 
whether you crucified him in ignorance of this, or knowing it.
Being thus adjured, Annas and Caiaphas ordered all the others who were with 
them to go out of the sanctuary; and themselves shut all the gates of the temple 
and the sanctuary, and said to Pilate: We have been adjured by thee, O good 
judge, by the building of this temple, to give thee the truth, and a clear 
account of this matter. After we had crucified Jesus, not knowing Him to 
be the Son of God, thinking that He did miracles by means of some charm, we made 
a great synagogue in this temple. And conferring with each other of the signs of 
the miracles which Jesus had done, we found many witnesses of our nation who 
said that they had seen Jesus alive after suffering death, and that He had 
penetrated into the height of heaven. And we have seen two witnesses, whom Jesus 
raised up again from the dead, who told us many wonderful things that Jesus did 
among the dead, which we have in our hands, written out. And our custom is, 
every year before our synagogue, to open that holy collection of books, and seek 
out the testimony of God. And we have found in the first book of the LXX., where 
the archangel Michael spoke to the third son of Adam, the first man, of five 
thousand and five hundred years, in which the Christ, the most beloved Son of 
God, was to come from the heavens; and upon this we have considered that perhaps 
He was the God of Israel who said to Moses,
Make to thee the ark of the covenant, two cubits and a half in length, one cubit 
and a half in breadth, one cubit and a half in height. In these five and a half 
cubits we have understood and recognised, from the structure of the ark of the 
old covenant, that in five and a half thousands of years, Jesus Christ was to 
come in the ark of the body; and we have found Him to be the God of Israel, the 
Son of God. Because after His passion, we, the chief priests, wondering at the 
signs which happened on account of Him, opened this collection of books, 
searching out all the generations, even to the generation of Joseph, and 
reckoning that Mary the mother of Christ was of the seed of David; and we have 
found that from the time that God made the heaven and the earth and the first 
man, to the deluge, are two thousand two hundred and twelve 
years; and from the deluge to the building of the tower, five hundred and 
thirty-one
years; and from the building of the tower to Abraham, six hundred and six 
years; and from Abraham to the arrival of the children of Israel from Egypt, 
four hundred and seventy years; from the coming of the children of Israel out of 
Egypt to the building of the temple, five hundred and eleven years; and from the 
building of the temple to the destruction of the same temple, four hundred and 
sixty-four years. Thus far have we found in the book of Esdras. After searching, 
we find that from the burning of the temple to the advent of Christ, and His 
birth, there are six hundred and thirty-six
years, which together were five thousand five hundred years, as we have found 
written in the book that Michael the archangel foretold to Seth the third son of 
Adam, that in five and a half thousands of years Christ the Son of God would 
come.
Even until now we have told no one, that there might be no dissension in our 
synagogues. And now thou hast adjured us, O good judge, by this holy book of the 
testimonies of God, and we make it manifest to thee. And now we adjure thee, by 
thy life and safety, to make manifest these words to no one in Jerusalem.

Chapter 13 (29).
Pilate, hearing these words of Annas and Caiaphas, laid them all up in the 
acts of our Lord and Saviour, in the public records of his praetorium, and wrote 
a letter to Claudius, king of the city of Rome,
saying:-
Pontius Pilate to Claudius his king, greeting. It has lately happened, as I 
myself have also proved, that the Jews, through envy, have punished themselves 
and their posterity by a cruel condemnation. In short, when their fathers had a 
promise that their God would send them from heaven his holy one, who should 
deservedly be called their king, and promised that he would send him by a virgin 
upon the earth: when, therefore, while I was procurator, he had come into 
Judaea, and when they saw him enlightening the blind, cleansing the lepers, 
curing the paralytics, making demons flee from men, even raising the dead, 
commanding the winds, walking dryshod upon the waves of the sea, and doing many 
other signs of miracles; and when all the people of the Jews said that he was 
the Son of God, the chief priests felt envy against him, and seized him, and 
delivered him to me; and, telling me one lie after another, they said that he 
was a sorcerer, and was acting contrary to their law.
And I believed that it was so, and delivered him to be scourged, according to 
their will. And they crucified him, and set guards over him when buried. And he 
rose again on the third day, while my soldiers were keeping guard. But so 
flagrant was the iniquity of the Jews, that they gave money to my soldiers, 
saying, Say that his disciples have stolen his body. But after receiving the 
money they could not keep secret what had been done; for they bore witness both 
that he had risen again, that they had seen him,
and that they had received money from the Jews.
This accordingly I have done, lest any one should give a different and a 
false account of it, and lost thou shouldst think that the lies of the Jews are 
to be believed.

Latin. Second Version.
Chapter 1 (17).
Then Rabbi Addas, and Rabbi Finees, and Rabbi Egias, the three men who had 
come from Galilee, testifying that they had seen Jesus taken up into heaven, 
rose up in the midst of the multitude of the chiefs of the Jews, and said before 
the priests and the Levites, who had been called together to the council of the 
Lord: When we were coming from Galilee, we met at the Jordan a very great 
multitude of men, fathers
who had been some time dead. And present among them we saw Karinus and Leucius. 
And they came up to us, and we kissed each other, because they were dear friends 
of ours; and we asked them, Tell us, friends and brothers, what is this breath 
of life and flesh? and who are those with whom you are going? and how do you, 
who have been some time dead, remain in the body?
And they said in answer: We have risen again along with Christ from the lower 
world, and He has raised us up again from the dead. And from this you may know 
that the gates of death and darkness have been destroyed, and the souls of the 
saints have been brought out thence, and have ascended into heaven along with 
Christ the Lord. And indeed to us it has been commanded by the Lord Himself, 
that for an appointed time we should walk over the banks of Jordan and the 
mountains; not, however, appearing to every one, nor speaking to every one, 
except to those to whom He has permitted us. And just now we could neither have 
spoken nor appeared to you, unless it had been allowed to us by the Holy 
Spirit.
And when they heard this, all the multitude who were present in the council 
were struck with fear and trembling, and wondered whether these things had 
really happened which these Galilaeans testified. Then Caiaphas and Annas said 
to the council: What these have testified, first and last, must shortly be 
altogether made clear: If it shall be found to be true that Karinus and Leucius 
remain alive in the body, and if we shall be able to behold them with our own 
eyes, then what they testify is altogether true; and if we find them, they will 
inform us of everything; but if not, you may know that it is all lies.
Then the council having suddenly risen, it pleased them to choose men fit for 
the duty, fearing God, and who knew when they died, and where they were buried, 
to inquire diligently, and to see whether it was as they had heard. The men 
therefore proceeded to the same place, fifteen in number, who through all were 
present at their falling asleep, and had stood at their feet when they were 
buried, and had beheld their tombs. And they came and found their tombs open, 
and very many others besides, and found a sign neither of their bones nor of 
their dust. And they returned in all haste, and reported what they had seen.
Then all their synagogue was in great grief and perplexity, and they said to 
each other: What shall we do? Annas and Caiaphas said: Let us turn to where we 
have heard that they are, and let us send to them men of rank, asking and 
entreating them: perhaps they will deign to come to us. Then they sent to them 
Nicodemus and Joseph, and the three men, the Galilaen rabbis who had seen them, 
asking that they should deign to come to them. And they went, and walked round 
all the region of Jordan and of the mountains, and they were coming back without 
finding them.
And, behold, suddenly there appeared coming down from Mount Amalech a very 
great number, as it were, twelve thousand men, who had risen with the Lord. And 
though they recognised very many there, they were not able to say anything to 
them for fear and the angelic vision; and they stood at a distance gazing and 
hearing them, how they walked along singing praises, and saying: The Lord has 
risen again from the dead, as He had said; let us all exult and be glad, since 
He reigns for ever. Then those who had been sent were astonished, and fell to 
the ground for fear, and received the answer from them, that they should see 
Karinus and Leucius in their own houses.
And they rose up and went to their houses, and found them spending their time 
in prayer. And going in to them, they fell on their faces to the ground, 
saluting them; and being raised up, they said: O friends of God, all the 
multitude of the Jews have directed us to you, hearing that you have risen from 
the dead, asking and beseeching you to come to them, that we all may know the 
great things of God which have happened around us in our times. And they 
immediately, at a sign from God, rose up, and came with them, and entered their 
synagogue. Then the multitude of the Jews, with the priests, put the books of 
the law in their hands, and adjured them by the God Heloi, and the God Adonai, 
and by the law and the prophets, saying: Tell us how you have risen from the 
dead, and what are those wonderful things which have happened in our times, such 
as we have never heard to have happened at any other time; because already for 
fear all our bones have been benumbed, and have dried up, and the earth moves 
itself under our feet: for we have joined all our hearts to shed righteous and 
holy blood.
Then Karinus and Leucius signed to them with their hands to give them a sheet 
of paper and ink. And this they did, because the Holy Spirit did not allow them 
to speak to them. And they gave each of them paper, and put them apart, the one 
from the other in separate cells. And they, making with their fingers the sign 
of the cross of Christ, began to write on the separate sheets; and after they 
had finished, as if out of one mouth from the separate cells, they cried out, 
Amen. And rising up, Karinus gave his paper to Annas, and Leucius to Caiaphas; 
and saluting each other, they went out, and returned to their sepulchres.
Then Annas and Caiaphas, opening the sheet of paper, began each to read it in 
secret. But all the people took it ill, and so all cried out: Read these 
writings to us openly; and after they have been read through we shall keep them, 
lest perchance this truth of God be turned through wilful blindness, by unclean 
and deceitful men, into falsehood. At this Annas and Caiaphas fell a-trembling, 
and delivered the sheet of paper to Rabbi Addas, and Rabbi Finees, and Rabbi 
Egias, who had come from Galilee, and announced that Jesus had been taken up 
into heaven. All the multitude of the Jews trusted to them to read this writing. 
And they read the paper containing these words:-

Chapter 2 (18).
I Karinus. 0 Lord Jesus Christ, Son of the living God, permit me to speak of 
Thy wonders which Thou hast done in the lower world. When, therefore, we were 
kept in darkness and the shadow of death in the lower world, suddenly there 
shone upon us a great light, and Hades and the gates of death trembled. And then 
was heard the voice of the Son of the Father most high, as if the voice of a 
great thunder; and loudly proclaiming, He thus charged them: Lift up your gates, 
ye princes; lift up the everlasting gates; the King of glory, Christ the Lord, 
will come up to enter in.
Then Satan, the leader of death, came up, fleeing in terror, saying to his 
officers and the powers below: My officers, and all the powers below, run 
together, shut your gates, put up the iron bars, and fight bravely, and resist, 
lest they lay hold of us, and keep us captive in chains. Then all his impious 
officers were perplexed, and began to shut the gates of death with all 
diligence, and by little and little to fasten the locks and the iron bars, and 
to hold all their weapons
grasped in their hands, and to utter howlings in a direful and most hideous 
voice.

Chapter 3 (19).
Then Satan said to Hades: Make thyself ready to receive him whom I shall 
bring down to thee. Thereupon Hades thus replied to Satan: That voice was from 
nothing else than the cry of the Son of the Father most high, because the earth 
and all the places of the world below so trembled trader it: wherefore I think 
that myself and all my dungeons are now lying open. But I adjure thee, Satan, 
head of all evils,
by thy power and my own, bring him not to me, lest, while we wish to take him, 
we be taken captive by him. For if, at his voice only, all my power has been 
thus destroyed, what do you think he will do when he shall come in person?
To him Satan, the leader of death, thus replied: What art thou crying out 
about? Do not be afraid, my old most wicked friend, because I have stirred up 
the people of the Jews against him; I have told them to strike him with blows on 
the face, and I have brought upon him betrayal by one of his disciples; and he 
is a man in great fear of death, because from fear he said, My soul is 
sorrowful, even unto death; and I have brought him to this, that he has just 
been lifted up and hanged on the cross.
Then Hades said to him: If he be the same who, by the mere word of his 
command, made Lazarus fly away like an eagle from my bosom, when he had already 
been dead four days, he is not a man in humanity, but God in majesty. I entreat 
thee not to bring him to me. And Satan says to him: Make thyself ready 
nevertheless; be not afraid; because he is already hanging on the cross, I can 
do nothing else. Then Hades thus replied to Satan: If, then, thou canst do 
nothing else, behold, thy destruction is at hand. I, in short, shall remain cast 
down and dishonoured; thou, however, wilt be tortured under my power.

Chapter 4 (20).
And the saints of God heard the wrangling of Satan and Hades. They, however, 
though as yet not at all recognising each other, were, notwithstanding, in the 
possession of their faculties. But our holy father Adam thus replied to Satan at 
once: O captain of death, why dost thou fear and tremble? Behold, the Lord is 
coming, who will now destroy all thy, inventions; and thou shalt be taken by 
Him, and bound throughout eternity.
Then all the saints, hearing the voice of our father Adam, how boldly he 
replied to Satan in all points, were strengthened in joy; and all running 
together to father Adam, were crowded in one place. Then our father Adam, gazing 
on all that multitude, wondered greatly whether all of them had been begotten 
from him into the world. And embracing those who were standing everywhere around 
him, and shedding most bitter tears, he addressed his son Seth, saying: Relate, 
my son Seth, to the holy patriarchs and prophets what the guardian of paradise 
said to thee, when I sent thee to bring to me of that oil of compassion, in 
order to anoint my body when I was ill.
Then he answered: I, when thou sentest me before the gates of paradise, 
prayed and en-treated the Lord with tears, and called upon the guardian of 
paradise to give me of it therefrom. Then Michael the archangel came out, and 
said to me, Seth, why then dost thou weep? Know, being informed beforehand, that 
thy father Adam will not receive of this oil of compassion now, but after many 
generations of time. For the most beloved Son of God will come down from heaven 
into the world, and will be baptized by John in the river Jordan; and then shall 
thy father Adam receive of this oil
of compassion, and all that believe in him. And of those who have believed in 
him, their kingdom will endure for ever.

Chapter 5 (21).
Then all the saints, hearing this again, exulted in joy. And one of those 
standing round, Isaias by name, cried out aloud, and thundered: Father Adam, and 
all standing round, hear my declaration. When I was on earth, and by the 
teaching of the Holy Spirit, in prophecy I sang of this light: The people who 
sat in darkness have seen a great light; to them dwelling in the region of the 
shadow of death light has arisen. At these words father Adam, and all of them, 
turned and asked him: Who art thou? because what thou sayest is true. And he 
subjoined, and said: My name is Isaias.
Then appeared. another near him, as if a hermit. And they asked him, saying: 
Who art thou, who bearest such an appearance in thy body? 
And he firmly answered: I am John the Baptist, voice and prophet of the Most 
High. I went before the face of the same Lord, that I might make the waste and 
rough places into plain ways. I with my finger pointed out and made manifest the 
Lamb of the Lord, and Son of God, to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. I baptized 
Him in the river Jordan. I heard the voice of the Father from heaven thundering 
over Him, and proclaiming, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. I 
received from Him the answer that He would descend to the lower world 
Then father Adam, hearing this, cried with a loud voice, exclaiming: 
Alleluia! which is, interpreted, The Lord is certainly coming.

Chapter 6 (22).
After that, another standing there, pre-eminent as it were, with a certain 
mark of an emperor, David by name, thus cried out, and said: When I was upon 
earth, I made revelations to the people of the mercy of God and His visitation, 
prophesying future joys, saying through all ages, Let them make confession to 
the Lord of His tender mercy and His wonderful works to the sons of men, because 
He has shattered the gates of brass, and broken the bars of iron. Then the holy 
patriarchs and prophets began mutually to recognise each other, and each to 
quote his prophecies.
Then holy Jeremias, examining his prophecies, said to the patriarchs and 
prophets: When was upon earth, I prophesied of the Son of God, that He was seen 
upon earth, and dwelt with men.
Then all the saints, exulting in the light of the Lord, and in the sight of 
father Adam, and in the answering of all the patriarchs and prophets, cried out, 
saying: Alleluia! blessed is He who cometh in the name of the Lord; so that at 
their crying out Satan trembled, and sought a way of escape. And he could not, 
because Hades and his satellites kept him bound in the lower regions, and 
guarded at all points. And they said to him: Why dost thou tremble? We by no 
means allow thee to go forth hence. But receive this, as thou art worthy, from 
Him whom thou didst daily assail; but if not, know that thou, bound by Him, 
shall be in my keeping.

Chapter 7 (23).
And again there came the voice of the Son of the Father most high, as it were 
the voice of a great thunder, saying: Lift up your gates, ye princes; and be ye 
lifted up, ye everlasting gates, and the King of glory will come in. Then Satan 
and Hades cried out, saying: Who is the king of glory? And it was answered to 
them in the voice of the Lord: The Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in 
battle.
After this voice there came a man, whose appearance was that of a robber, 
carrying a cross on his shoulder, crying from the outside of the door, and 
saying: Open to me, that I may come in. And Satan, opening to him a little, 
brought him inside into his dwelling, 
and again shut the door after him. And all the saints saw him most clearly, and 
said to him forthwith: Thy appearance is that of a robber. Tell us what it is 
that thou carriest on thy back. And he answered, and said with humility: Truly I 
was a robber altogether; and the Jews hung me up on a cross, along with my Lord 
Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father most high. I, in fine, have come 
heralding 
Him; He indeed is coming immediately behind me.
Then holy David, inflamed with anger against Satan, cried out aloud: Open thy 
gates, most vile wretch, that the King of glory may come in. In like manner also 
all the saints of God rose up against Satan, and would have seized him, and 
divided him among them. And again a cry was heard within: Lift up your gates, ye 
princes; and be ye lifted up, ye everlasting gates; and the King of glory shall 
come in. Hades and Satan, at that clear voice, again asked, saying: Who is this 
king of glory? And it was said to them by that wonderful voice: The Lord of 
powers, He is the King of glory.

Chapter 8 (24).
And, behold, suddenly Hades trembled, and the gates of death and the bolts 
were shattered, and the iron bars were broken and fell to the ground, and 
everything was laid open. And Satan remained in the midst, and stood confounded 
and downcast, bound with fetters on his feet. And, behold, the Lord Jesus 
Christ, coming in the brightness of light from on high, compassionate, great, 
and lowly, carrying a chain in His hand, bound Satan by the neck; and again 
tying his hands behind him, dashed him on his back into Tartarus, and placed His 
holy foot on his throat, saying: Through all ages thou hast done many evils; 
thou hast not in any wise rested. To-day I deliver thee to everlasting fire. And 
Hades being suddenly summoned, He commanded him, and said: Take this most wicked 
and impious one, and have him in thy keeping even to that day in which I shall 
command thee. And he, as soon as he received him, was plunged under the feet of 
the Lord along with him into the depth of the abyss.

Chapter 9 (25).
Then the Lord Jesus, the Saviour of all, affectionate and most mild, saluting 
Adam kindly, said to him: Peace be to thee, Adam, with thy children, through 
immeasurable ages of ages! Amen. Then father Adam, falling forward at the feet 
of the Lord, and being raised erect, kissed His hands, and shed many tears, 
saying, testifying to all: Behold. the hands which fashioned me! And he said to 
the Lord: Thou hast come, O King of glory, delivering men, and bringing them 
into Thy everlasting kingdom. Then also our mother Eve in like manner fell 
forward at the feet of our Lord, and was raised erect, and kissed His hands, and 
poured forth tears in abundance, and said, testifying to all: Behold the hands 
which made me!
Then all the saints, adoring Him, cried out, saying: Blessed is He who cometh 
in the name of the Lord! The Lord God hath shone upon us-amen-through all ages. 
Alleluia for ever and ever! Praise, honour, power, glory! because Thou hast come 
from on high to visit us. Singing Alleluia continually, and rejoicing together 
concerning His glory, they ran together under the hands of the Lord. Then the 
Saviour, inquiring thoroughly about all, seized Hades, 
immediately threw some down into Tartarus, and led some with Him to the upper 
world.

Chapter 10 (26).
Then all the saints of God asked the Lord to leave as a sign of victory the 
sign of His holy cross in the lower world, that its most impious officers might 
not retain as an offender any one whom the Lord had absolved. And so it was 
done. And the Lord set His cross in the midst of Hades, which is the sign of 
victory, and which will remain even to eternity.
Then we all went forth thence along with the Lord, leaving Satan and Hades in 
Tartarus. And to us and many others it was commanded that we should rise in the 
body, giving in the world a testimony of the resurrection of our Lord Jesus 
Christ, and of those things which had been done in the lower world.
These are the things, dearest brethren, which we have seen, and which, 
adjured by you, we testify, He bearing witness who died for us, and rose again; 
because, as it was written, so has it been done in all points.

Chapter 11 (27).
And when the paper was finished and read through, all that heard it fell on 
their faces, weeping bitterly, and cruelly beating their breasts, crying out, 
and saying through all: Woe to us! Why has this happened to us wretched? Pilate 
flees; Annas and Caiaphas flee; the priests and Levites flee; moreover also the 
people of the Jews, weeping and saying, Woe to us wretched! we have shed sacred 
blood upon the earth.
For three days, therefore, and three nights, they did not taste bread and 
water at all; nor did any of them return to the synagogue. But on the third day 
again the council was assembled, and the other paper of Leucius was read 
through; and it was found neither more nor less, to a single letter, than that 
which the writing of Karinus contained. Then the synagogue was perplexed; and 
they all lamented forty days and forty nights, looking for destruction from God, 
and the vengeance of God. But He, pitier affectionate and most high, did not 
immediately destroy them, bountifully giving them a place of repentance. But 
they were not found worthy to be turned to the Lord.
These are the testimonies of Karinus and Leucius, dearest brethren, 
concerning Christ the Son of God, and His holy deeds in the lower world; to whom 
let us all give praise and glory through immeasurable age of ages. Amen. 

