
The Gospel of the Lord











The Gospel of the Lord.
The written account of the life of Jesus Christ, preserved in its
  original Greek by Marcion, son of Philologus, bishop of Sinope. (Anno Domine 130) 
I.
1. In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, 
  2. [Pontius Pilatus being the Governor of Judaea,] Jesus came down to Capernaum, a city in
  Galilee, and was 
  3. teaching on the sabbath days: and they were astonished at his doctrine: for his word
  was in authority. 
  4. And in the synagogue there was a man which had a spirit of an unclean demon, and he
  cried out with a loud 
  5. voice, Saying, "let us alone; what have we to do with thee, Jesus? art
  thou come to destroy us? I know thee 
  6. who thou art: the Holy One of God." And Jesus rebuked him, saying; "Hold thy
  peace, and come out of him." And when the demon had thrown him into the midst, 
  7. he came out of him, having done no hurt. And amazement came upon all, and they spake
  together saying to one another, what is this word? For in authority and power he
  commandeth the unclean spirits, 
  8. and they come out. And a rumour of him went out into every place of the country round
  about, 
  9. And he arose out of the synagogue, and entered into the house of Simon. And Simon`s
  mother in law was taken with a great fever: and they besought him for her. 
  10. And he stood over her, and rebuked the fever: and it left her: and immidately she
  arose and ministered unto them. 
  11. And he came to Nazareth, and went into the 
  12. synagogue [on the Sabbath day] and sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue
  fastened on him, 
  13-14. And he began to speak to them; and all wondered 
  15. at the words which proceedeth from his mouth. And he said unto them, " Ye will
  surely say unto me this parable, Physician, heal thyself; whatsoever we have 
  16. heard done at Capernaum, do also here. But I tell you of a truth, many widows were in
  Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heaven was shut up three years and six months, 
  17. when great famine occured throughout all the land: and unto none of them was Elijah
  sent, but only to Sarepta, 
  18. a city of Sidon, unto a woman that was a widow. And many lepers were
  in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet: and none of them was cleansed, but only 
  19. Naaman the syrian". And they were all filled with wrath 
  20. in the synagogue, when they heard these things, and rose up, and thrust him out of the
  city, and led him unto the brow of the hill whereon their city was built, to cast 
  21. him down headlong. But he passing through the midst of them went his way. 
  22. And when the sun was setting, all as many as had any sick with divers diseases brought
  them unto him; and he laid his hands on every one of them, and healed them. 
  23. And demons also came out of many, crying out, saying, "Thou art Son of God"
  and he rebuked them suffered them not to speak; for they knew that he was the
  Christ. 
  24. And when it was day, he departed and went into a desert place: and the multitudes
  sought him, and came unto him, and stayed him, that he should not depart from 
  25. them. And he said unto them, "I must announce as good tidings the kingdom of God
  to the other cities also: for therefore am i sent. 
  26. And he was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee. 
II.
Now it came to pass, that, as the multitude pressed upn him to hear the word of God, he
  was standing by 
  2. the lake of Gennesaret, and saw two boats standing by the lake: but the fdishermen were
  gone out of them, 
  3. and were washing their nets. And he entered into one of the boats, which was
  Simon`s, and asked him to thrust out a litle from land. And he sat down, and 
  4. taught the multitudes out of the boat. Now when he had left speaking, he said unto
  Simon, "Put put into the 
  5. deep, and let down your nets a draught". And Simon answering said unto him,
  "Master, we have toiled all the night, and taken nothing; but at thy word I will let
  down 
  6. the net." When they had this done, they inclosed a 
  7. great multitude of fishes: and their nets were breaking. And they beckoned unto their
  partners, in the other boat, that they should come and help them out. And they came, and 
  8. filled both the boats, so that they began to sink. When Simon Peter saw it, he
  fell down at Jesus` knees, saying, 
  9. "Depart from me; for I am a sinful man, O Lord." For amazement overcame him,
  and all that were with him, at 
  10. the draught of the fishes which they had taken: which were partners with Simon. And
  Jesus said unto Simon, "fear not; from henceforth thou shalt be taking men 
  11. alive." And when they had brought their boats to land, they left all, and
  followed him. 
  12. And it came to pass, when he was in one of the cities, behold a man full of leprosy:
  who seeing Jesus fell on his face, and besought him, saying; "Lord, if thou
  wilt, thou 
  13. canst make me clean." And he put forth his hand, and touched him,
  saying, " I will: be thou cleansed" And 
  14. immediately the leprosy departed from the man. And he charged him to tell no man; but
  go, and shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, according as Moses 
  15. commanded, that this may be a testimony to you. But so much the more went there a fame
  abroad of him: and many multitidues came together to hear, and to be healed 
  16. by him for their infirmities. And he himself was withdrawing in the wilderness,
  praying. 
  17. And it came to pass on one of the days that he was teaching, and there were Pharisees
  and doctors of the law sitting vtm which were come out of every village of Galilee,
  Judaea, and Jerusalem: and the power of the 
  18. Lord was with Him toheal them. And behold, men brought in a bed a man that
  was palsied; and they sought 
  19. to bring him in, and to lay him before him. And not finding by what way
  they might bring him in because of the multitude, they went up to the housetop, and let
  him down through the tiles with his couch into the midst before 
  20. Jesus. And seeing their faith, he said unto him, "Man, thy 
  21. sins are forgiven thee." And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason,
  saying, "Who is this which speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sin, but God alone? 
  22. But Jesus perceiving their reasoning answered and said unto them, "What reasen ye
  in your hearts? 
  23. Whether is easier, to say, Thy sins are forgiven thee; or 
  24. to say; Rise up and walk? But that ye may know that the Son of man hath authority upon
  earth to forgive sins (he said unto the palsied man) I say unto thee, Arise 
  25. and take up they couch, and go to thine house. And immediately he rose up before them,
  and took up that whereon he lay, and departed to his house, glorifying 
  26. God. And amazement took hold on all, and they glorified God, and were filled with
  fear, saying, "We have seen strange things today". 
  27. And after these things he went forth, and saw a publican, named Levi, sitting at the
  place of toll: and he 
  28. said unto him, "Follow me." And he left all, rose up, and 
  29. followed him. And Levi made him a great feast in his hourse: and there was a great
  company of publicans and 
  30. of others that were reclining with them. And their scribes and the Pharisees murmured
  against his disciples, 30. saying, "Why do ye year and drink with publicans and 
  31. sinners?" And Jesus answering said unto them, "They that are whole have no
  need of a physiciian; but they 
  32. that are sick. I am not come to call the righteous, but 
  33. sinners to repentance. And they said unto him, "Why do the disciples of John fast
  often, and make prayers, and likewise the disciples of the Pharisees; but thine
  eat and 
  34. drink? And he said unto them, "Can ye make the sons of the bridal chamber fast,
  while the bridegroom is with 
  35. them? But the days will come; and when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them,
  then will they fast in 
  36. those days." And he spake also a parable unto them; "No man putteth a piece
  of new garment upon an old garment; else both the new maketh a rent, and the piece that
  was taken out of the new agreeth not with the 
  37. old. And no man puttteth new wine into old wine-skins, else the new wine will burst
  the skins; and itself will be 
  38. spilled, and the skins will perish. But new wine must be put into new wine-skins, and
  both are preserved. 
  39. No man also having drunk old wine straigtway desireth new; for he saith, the
  old is better. 
III.
And it came to pass on the second sabbath after the first, that he was going through
  the corn fields: and his disciples plucked the ears of cornm and did eat, rubbing them
  in 
  2. their hands. And certain of the Pharisees said unto them, "Why do ye that which is
  not lawful to do 
  3. on the sabbath day?" And Jesus answering them, said, "Have ye not read even
  this what David did, when himself was 
  4. an hungered, and they which were with him; how they went into the house of God, and did
  take and eat the shewbread, and gave also to them that were with him; which it is not
  lawful to eat but for the priests alone?" 
  5. And he said unto them, "That the Son of man is Lord even of the sabbath" 
  6. And it came to pass also on another Sabbath, that he entered into the synagogue and
  taught; and there were a 
  7. a man there and his right hand was withered. And the scribes and Pharisees watched him,
  whether he would heal on the sabbath day; that they might find an 
  8. accusation against him. But he knew their reasonings, and said to the man which had the
  withered man, "Rise up, and stand forth in the midst. And he rose and stood 
  9. forth. Then said Jesus unto them, "I will ask you something; Is it lawful on the
  sabbath to do good 
  10. or to do evil? To save life, or to destroy it?" And looking round about
  upon them all, he said unto the man, "stretch forth thy hand." and he did so:
  and his hand was 
  11. restored as the other. And they were filled with madness; and commanded one with
  another what they might do to Jesus. 
  12. And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into the mountains to pray, and
  was passing the whole night 
  13. in prayer to God. And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples: and
  he chose from them twelve. 
  14. whom he also named; apostles; Simon (whom was also named Peter), and Andrew his
  brother, James and John, Phillip 
  15. and Bartholomew, Matthew and Thomas, James the son 
  16. of Alphaeas, and Simon whom they called Zelotes, and Judas the brother of
  James, and Judas Iscarioth, which also became a 
  17. traitor. And he came down among them, and stood on a level place, and the multitude of
  his disciples, and a great number of people out of all Judaea and Jerusalem, and from the
  sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, which came to hear 
  18. him, and to be healed of their diseases; and they that were troubled by unclean
  spirits: and they were healed. 
  19. And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for power went out of him, and healed them
  all. 
  20. And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said: "Blessed are ye
  poor: for your`s is the kingdom of God. 
  21. Blessed are ye that hunger now: for ye shall be filled. Blessed are ye
  that weep now: for ye shall laught. 
  22. Blessed are ye, when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from
  their company, and shall reproach you, and cast out your name as evil, for
  the Son of man`s 
  23. sake. Rejoice ye in that day, and leap for you: for, behold, your reward is
  great in heaven: for according to 
  24. these things did their fathers unto the prophets. But woe unto you that are rich! for
  ye have consolation 
  25. in full. Woe unto you that are full! for ye shall hunger. Woe unto you that laugh now!
  for ye 
  26. shall mourn and weep. Woe unto you, when all men shall speak well of you! for
  according to these things did their fathers to the false prophets. 
  27. But I say unto you that hear, Love your enemies, do 
  28. good to them which hate you, bless them that curse you, 
  29. and pray for them which despitefully use you.Unto him that smiteth thee on the one
  cheek, offer also the other; and from him that taketh away thy cloke, withhold 
  30. not thy coat also. Give every man that asketh of thee: and of him that taketh away thy
  goods ask them. 
  31. not again. and as ye would that men should do to you, 
  32. do ye also to them likewise. And if ye love them which love you, what thank have ye?
  for sinners also love those 
  33. that love them. And if ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank have ye?
  for sinners also do 
  34. the same. And if ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receive, what thank have
  ye? for sinners also lend to 35. sinners, to receive equal things.But love ye your
  enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing again: and your reward shall be great,
  and ye shall be sons of the Highest: for he is kind unto the unthankful and to 
  36. the evil. Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is 
  37. merciful. And Judge not, and ye shall not be judged: condemn not, and ye shall not be
  condemned: release 
  38. and ye shall be released: Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed
  down, and shaken together, and running over, shall they give into your bosom. For with the
  same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again." 
  39. And he spake a parable unto them, "Can the blind lead 
  40. the blind? shall they not both fall into the ditch? The disciple is not above his
  teacher: but every one that is 
  41 perfect shall be as his teacher. And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy
  brothers eye, but perceivest 
  42. not the beam that is in thine won eye? Either how canst thou say to thy brother,
  Brother, let me pull the mote that is in thine eye, when thou thyself beholdest not the
  beam in thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine own eye, and
  then shall you see clearly to pull out the mote that is in thy brother`s eye!. 
  43. For there is no good tree that maketh corrupt fruit; nor 
  44. corrupt tree that maketh good fruit. For each tree is known by its fruit. For of
  thorns do they not gather figs, nor of a bramble bush gather they grapes. 
  45. The good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is truely
  good: and the evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is
  evil: for out of the abundance of the heart his 
  46. mouth speaketh. And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and 
  47. do not do the things which I say? Everyone that cometh to me, and heareth my sayings,
  and doeth them, I will 
  48. shew you to whom he is like: He is like a man building a house, who digged and went
  deep, and laid a foundation on the rock: and when the flood arose, the stream beat
  vehemtly upon the house, and had not strenght to shake it: for it was founded upon the 
  49. rock. But he that heareth, and doeth not, is like a man that without a foundation
  built a house upon the earth; against which the stream did beat vehemently, and
  immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great. 
IV.
Now when he had completed all his sayings in the ears of the people, he entered into
  Capernaum. 
  2. And a certain centurion`s servant was sick, and going to 
  3. die; and he was precious unto him. And when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him elders
  of the Jews 
  4. asking him that he would come and save his servant. And when they came to Jesus, they
  besought him earnestly, saying, That he was worthy for whom he should do this: 
  5. "For he loveth our nation, and he hath built us the 
  6. synagogue". Then Jesus went with them. And when he was now not far from the house,
  the centurion sent friends to him,saying unto him: "Lord, trouble not thyself; for I
  am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof. 
  7. Wherefore neither thoughtr I myself worthy to come unto thee: but say in a word, and my
  boy shall be healed. 
  8. For I aslo am a man set under authority, having under me soliders, and I say unto this
  one, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do 
  9. this, and he doeth it". And when Jesus heard these things, he marveled at
  him, and turned, and said unto the multitude that followed him, "I say unto you, not
  even in 
  10. Israel have I found so great faith." And they that were sent, returned to the
  house, and found the sick servant whole. 
  11. And it came to pass the day after, that he was going into a city called Nain,; and
  many of his disciples were 
  12. going with him, and a great multitude. Now when he came night to the gate of the city,
  behold, a dead man was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow:
  and a considerable multitude of the 
  13. city was with her. And when the Lord saw her, he had 
  14. compassion on her, and said unto her, "Weep not." And he came and touched
  the bier: and they that bare him stood still. And he said, "Young man, I say
  unto thee, Arise!" 
  15. And the dead man sat up, and began to speak. And 
  16. he delivered him to his mother. And fear took hold on all: and they glorified God,
  saying, That a great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath 
  17. visited his people. And this rumour of him went forth in the whole of Judaea, and in
  all region round about. 
  18. And the disciples of John told him of all these 
  19. things. And John calling unto him a certain two of his disciples sent them
  to Jesus, saying, "Art thou he that 
  20. cometh? or are we to look for another?" And when the men were come unto him, they
  said, "John the Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying; Art thou he that cometh? 
  21. or are we to look for another?" And in that same hour he cured many infirmities
  and plagues and of evil spirits; 
  22. and unto many blind he gave sight. And Jesus answering said unto them, "Go your
  way, and tell John what things ye have seen and heard: that the blind receive their sight,
  the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, the poor have
  good tidings 
  23. announced to them. And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in
  me." 
  24. And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to say unto the multitudes
  concerning John What are ye come into the wilderness to gaze at? A reed 
  25. shaken with the wind? But what are ye come out to see? A man clothed in soft rainment?
  Behold, they which are in gorgeous apparel, and delicacy, are kings` 
  26. courts. But what are ye come out to see? A Prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and much more
  than a prophet. 
  27. This is he, of whom it is written, "Behold, I send my messenger before
  thy face, which shall prepare thy way 
  28. before thee." For I say unto you, Among those that are born from women, a greater
  prophet than John the Baptist, there is none: but he that is less in the Kingdom of God 
  29. is greater than he". And all the people when they heard it, and the publicans,
  justified God, being baptised with 
  30. the baptism of John. But the Pharisees and lawyer rejected the counsel of God unto
  themselves, being not 
  31. baptised of him. And the Lord said, "Whereunto then shall I liken the men of this
  generation? and to what are 
  32. they like? They are like unto children sitting in the marketplace, and calling to one
  another, and saying:  We piped unto you, and ye did not dance, we mourned 33. you,
  and ye did not weep. For John the Baptist is come neither eating bread nor drinking wine,
  and ye say, He
  34. hath a demon. The Son of man is coming eating and drinking, and ye say, Behold a
  gluttonous man, and a 
  35. winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners! And wisdom was justified of all her
  children". 
  36. And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. And he went into the
  Pharisee`s house, and 
  37. reclined to meat. And behold, a woman of the city, which was a sinner, when
  she knew that he was reclining in the Pharisee`s house, brought an alabaster box of
  ointment 
  38. and stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wet his feet with the
  tears,, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and
  anointed 
  39. them with the ointment. Now when the Pharisee which had bidden him saw it,
  he spake to himself, saying, "This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who
  and what manner manner of woman this is that touched him: 
  40. for she is a sinner. And Jesus answering said unto him, "Simon, I have somewhat
  to say unto thee." And he saith, 
  41. "Teacher, say on." "A certain money-lender had two debtors: the one
  owed five hundred denarii, and 
  42. the other fifty. And when they had not whewewith to pay, he forgave them both. Tell me
  therefore, which 
  43. of them will love him more?" Simon answered and said, "I suppose that he,
  to whom he forgave the more." And he said unto 
  44. him, "Thou hast rightly judged"And he turned to the woman, and said unto
  Simon, "Seest thou this woman? I entered into thine house: water for my feet thou
  gavest me not: but she hath wetted my feet with tears, and wiped 
  45. them with the hairs of her head. A kiss thou gavest me not: but she since the time I
  came hath not ceased 
  46. kissing my feet. My head with oil thou didst not anoint: but this woman hath anointed
  my feet with ointment. 
  47. For the sake of which I say unto thee; Her sins which are many are forgiven; for she
  loved much: but to 
  48. whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little". And he 
  49. said unto her, " Thy sins are forgiven." And they that were reclining with
  him began to say among themselves,
  50. "Who is this that even forgiveth sins?" And he said to the woman "Thy
  faith has saved thee, go in peace." 
V.
And it came to pass afterward, that he made his way through city and village, preaching
  and announcing as good tidings the kingdom of God: and the twelve were 
  2. with him. And certain women, which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities,
  Mary called Magdalene, from 
  3. whom seven demons had gone out, and Joannah the wife of Chuza, Herod`s steward, and
  Susanna, and many others, which ministered unto him of their possessions.
  4. And when a great multitude were coming together, and they of every city were come to
  him, he spake by a 
  5. parable: "The sower went out to sow his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the
  way side: and it was trodden 
  6. down, and the fowls of the heaven devoured it. And other fell upon the rock, and when
  sprung up, it withered away, 
  7. because it lacked moisture. And other fell in the midst of the thorns; and the thorns
  sprang up with it, and 
  8. choked it. And other fell on the good ground, and when sprung up, it made fruit and
  hundredfold". And when he said these things, he cried," He that hath ears to
  hear, let him hear!" 
  9. And his disciples asked him, saying, "What might this 
  10. parable be?" And he said, "Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the
  Kingdom of God: but to the rest in parables; that seeing they may not see, and hearing 
  11. that they may not understand. Now the parable is this: 
  12. The seed is the word of God. Those by the way side are they that hear; then cometh the
  devil, and taketh away the word from their hearts, lest they should believe and 
  13. be saved. Those on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive the word
  with joy; and these have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation
  fall 
  14. away. And that which fell among thorns, these are they, which, when they have heard,
  go, and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring 
  15. no fruit of perfection. But that on the good ground, these are, whoever in an honest
  and good heart, having heard the word, keep hold of it, and bring forth fruit in
  patience. 
  16. No man, when he hath lighted a lamp, covereth it with a vessel, or putteth it
  under a bed; but setteth it on a lamp-stand, that they which enter in may see the
  light. 
  17. For there is no secret thing, that shall not be made manifest; nor hidden,
  that shall not be known and come 
  18. into view. Take heed therefore how ye hear: for whosoever hath, to him shall be given:
  and whosoever hath not, even what he seemed to have shall be taken from him." 
  19. And it was told him by certain which said, "Thy mother and thy brethren
  stand without, desiring to see thee" 
  20. And he answered and said unto them, " Who is my mother and who is my
  brethren? My mother and my brethren are these, which hear the word of God, and do
  it!" 
  21. Now it came to pass on one of the days, that he went into a boat and his disciples:
  and he said unto them, "Let us go over unto the other side of the lake". And
  they 
  22. launched forth. But as they sailed he fell asleep: and there came down a storm of wind
  on the lake; and they were filling with water, and were in jeopardy, 
  23. And they came to him, and awoke him, saying, "Master, master, we perish" And
  he arose, and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water: and they ceased, and there 
  24. was a calm. And he said unto them, " Where is your faith?" And they were
  frightened and wondered, saying one to another, "Who then is this? for he commandeth
  even the winds and water, and they obey him?" 
  25. And they sailed down to the country of the Gandarenes, 
  26. which is over against Galilee. And when he went forth to land, there met him out of
  the city a certain man, which had demons long time, and wore no cloke, neither abode 
  27. in a house, but among the tombs. When he saw Jesus, he cried out, and fell down before
  him, and with a loud voice said, "What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou
  Son of 
  28. God most high? I beseech thee, torment me not." (For he had commanded the unclean
  spirit to come out of the man. For oftentimes it had caught him: and he was guarded and
  bound with chains and in fetters: and he brake the bands asunder, and was driven of the
  demon 
  29. into the deserts) And Jesus asked him, saying, "What is 
  30. thy name?" And he said, "Legion" because many demons were entered into
  him. And they besought him that he 
  31. would not command them to go out into the abyss. And there was an herd of many swine
  feeding of the mountain: and they besought him that he would suffer them to enter into
  them. And he suffered them. 
  32. Then went the demons out of the man, and entered into the swine: and the herd ran
  violently down the 
  33. steep place into the lake, and were drowned. When they that fed them saw what
  was done, they fled, and went and told it 
  34. in the city and in the country. Then they went out to see what was done; and came to
  Jesus, and found the man, from whom the demons were departed, sitting at the feet of
  Jesus, clothed, and in his right mind: and they 
  35. were afraid. They also which saw it told them by what means he that was
  possessed of the demons was saved. 
  36. Then the whole multitude of the country of the Gandarenes round about him asked him to
  depart from them; for they were holden with great fear: and he entered into the 
  37. boat, and returned back again. Now the man, from whom the demons had departed,
  besought him that he might be with him: but Jesus sent him away, saying 38. "Return
  to thine house, and recount how great things God hath done unto thee." And he went
  his way, publishing throughout the whole city how great things Jesus had done unto him. 
  39. And it came to pass, that, when Jesus returned, the multitude welcomed him: for they
  were all waiting for 
  40. him. And, behold, there came a man whose name was Jairus, and he was a ruler of the
  synagogue: and he fell down at Jesus` feet, and besought him that he would 
  41. come into his house: For he had an only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she
  was dying. But as he went the multitudes thronged him. 
  42. And a woman having an issue of blood twelve years, which had spent all her living upon
  physicians, neither 
  43. could be healed if any, came behind him, and touched the border of his
  garment; and immediately her issue of 
  44. blood stanched. And Jesus said, "Who touched me?" When all denied, Peter and
  they that were with him said, "Master, the multitude throng thee, and press thee,
  and 
  45. sayest thou, "Who touched me?" And Jesus said, "Somebody touched me:
  for I perceived that power had gone 
  46. out of me." And when the woman saw that shw was not hid, she came trembling, and
  falling down before him, she declared unto him before all the people for what reason she
  touched him, and how she was healed immediately. 
  47. And he said unto her, "Daughter, be of good comfort: thy faith hath saved thee;
  go into peace" 
  48. While he yet spake, theere cometh one from the ruler of the synagogue`s house,
  saying to him, "The daughter is 
  49. dead; trouble not the Teacher." But when Jesus heard it, he answered
  him, saying, "Fear not, believe only, 
  50. and she shall be saved." And when he came into the house, he suffered no man to
  go in, save Peter, and James, and John, and the father and the mother of the maiden. 
  51. And all were weeping, and bewailing her, but he said: 
  52. "Weep not: she is not dead, but sleepeth." And they 
  53. laughed to scorn him, knowing that she was dead. And he put them all out, and took her
  by the hand, and called 
  54. saying, "Maid, arise". And her spirit came again, and she arose staightway;
  and he commanded that something be 
  55. given her to eat. And her parents were astonished: but he charged them to tell no man
  what was done. 
