
Gospel of Nicodemus











Part I.-The Acts of 
Pilate
--------

First Greek Form.
Memorials of Our Lord Jesus Christ, 
  Done in the Time of Pontius Pilate.
Prologue.-I Ananias, of the propraetor's body-guard, being learned in the 
law, knowing our Lord Jesus Christ from the Holy Scriptures, coming to Him by 
faith, and counted worthy of the holy baptism, searching also the memorials 
written at that time of what was done in the case of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
which the Jews had laid up in the time of Pontius Pilate, found these memorials 
written in Hebrew, and by the favour of God have translated them into Greek for 
the information of all who call upon the name of our Master Jesus Christ, in the 
seventeenth year of the reign of our Lord Flavius Theodosius, and the sixth of 
Flavius Valentinianus, in the ninth indiction.

All ye, therefore, who read and transfer into other books, remember me, and 
pray for me, that God may be merciful to me, and pardon my sins which I have 
sinned against Him.
Peace be to those who read, and to those who hear and to their households. 
Amen.
In the fifteenth year
of the government of Tiberius Caesar, emperor of the Romans, and Herod being 
king of Galilee, in the nineteenth year of his rule, on the eighth day before 
the Kalends of April, which is the twenty-fifth of March, in the consulship of 
Rufus and Rubellio, in the fourth year of the two hundred and second Olympiad, 
Joseph Caiaphas being high priest of the Jews.
The account that Nicodemus wrote in Hebrew, after the cross and passion of 
our Lord Jesus Christ, the Saviour God, and left to those that came after him, 
is as follows:-

Chapter 1.
Having called a council, the high priests and scribes Annas and Caiaphas and 
Seines and Dathaes, and Gamaliel, Judas, Levi and Nephthalim, Alexander and 
Jairus,
and the rest of the Jews, came to Pilate accusing Jesus about many things, 
saying: We know this man to be the son of Joseph the carpenter, born of Mary; 
and he says that he is the Son of God, and a king; moreover, he profanes the 
Sabbath, and wishes to do away with the law of our fathers. Pilate says: And 
what are the things which he does, to show that he wishes to do away with 
it?
The Jews say: We have a law not to cure any one on the Sabbath; but this 
man
has on the Sabbath cured the lame and the crooked, the withered and the blind 
and the paralytic, the dumb and the demoniac, by evil practices. Pilate says to 
them: What evil practices? They say to him: He is a magician, and by Beelzebul 
prince of the demons be casts out the demons, and all are subject to him. Pilate 
says to them: This is not casting out the demons by an unclean spirit, but by 
the god Aesculapius. 
The Jews say to Pilate: we entreat your highness that he stand at thy 
tribunal, and be heard. 
And Pilate having called them, says: Tell me how I, being a procurator, can try 
a king? They say to him: W do not say that he is a king, but he himself says 
that he is. And Pilate having called the runner, says to him: Let Jesus be 
brought in with respect. And the runner going out, and recognising Him, adored 
Him, and took his cloak into his hand, and spread it on the ground, and says to 
him: My lord, walk on this, and come in, for the procurator calls thee. And the 
Jews seeing what the runner had done, cried out against Pilate, saying: Why hast 
thou ordered him to come in by a runner, and not by a crier? for assuredly the 
runner, when he saw him, adored him, and spread his doublet on the ground, and 
made him walk like a king.
And Pilate having called the runner, says to him: Why hast thou done this, 
and spread out thy cloak upon the earth, and made Jesus walk upon it? The runner 
says to him: My lord procurator, when thou didst send me to Jerusalem to 
Alexander,
I saw him sitting upon an ass, and the sons of the Hebrews held branches in 
their hands, and shouted; and other spread their clothes under him saying, Save 
now, thou who art in the highest: blessed is he that cometh in the name of the 
Lord.

The Jews cry out, and say, to the runner: The soils of the Hebrews shouted in 
Hebrew; whence then hast thou the Greek? The runner says to them: I asked one of 
the Jews, and said, What is it they are shouting in Hebrew? And he interpreted 
it for me. Pilate says to them: And what did they shout in Hebrew? The Jews say 
to him: Hosanna Membrome Baruchamma Adonai.
Pilate says to them: And this hosanna, etc., how is it interpreted? The Jews say 
to him: Save now in the highest; blessed is he; that cometh in the name of the 
Lord. Pilate says to them: If you bear witness to the words spoken by the 
children, in what has the runner done wrong? And they were silent. And the 
procurator says to the runner: Go out, and bring him in what way thou wilt. And 
the runner going out, did in the same manner as before, and says to Jesus: My 
lord, come in; the procurator calleth thee.
And Jesus going in, and the standard-bearers holding their standards, the 
tops of the standards were bent down, and adored Jesus. And the Jews seeing the 
bearing of the standards, how they were bent down and adored Jesus, cried
out vehemently against the standard-bearers. And Pilate says to the Jews: Do you 
not wonder how the tops of the standards were bent down, and adored Jesus? The 
Jews say to Pilate: We saw how the standard-bearers bent them down, and adored 
him. And the procurator having called the standard-bearers, says to them: Why 
have you done this? They say to Pilate: We are Greeks and temple-slaves, and how 
could we adore him? and assuredly, as we were holding them up, the tops bent 
down of their own accord, and adored him.
Pilate says to the rulers of the synagogue and the elders of the people: Do 
you choose for yourselves men strong and powerful, and let them hold up the 
standards, and let us see whether they will bend down with them. And the elders 
of the Jews picked out twelve men powerful and strong, and made them hold up the 
standards six by six; and they were placed in front of the procurator's 
tribunal. And Pilate says to the runner: Take him outside of the praetorium, and 
bring him in again in whatever way may please thee. And Jesus and the runner 
went out of the praetorium. And Pilate, summoning those who had formerly held up 
the standards, says to them: I have sworn by tile health of Caesar, that if the 
standards do not bend down when Jesus comes in, I will cut off your heads. And 
the procurator ordered Jesus to come in the second time. And the runner did in 
the same manner as before, and made many entreaties to Jesus to walk on his 
cloak. And He walked on it, and went ill. And as He went in, the standards were 
again bent down, and adored Jesus.

Chapter 2.
And Pilate seeing this, was afraid, and sought to go away from the tribunal; 
but when he was still thinking of going away, his wife sent to him, saying: Have 
nothing to do with this just man, for many things have I suffered on his account 
this night.
And Pilate, summoning the Jews, says to them: You know that my wife is a 
worshipper of God, and prefers to adhere to the Jewish religion along with you. 
They say to him: Yes; we know. Pilate says to them: Behold, my wife
has sent to me, saying, Have nothing to do with this just man, for many things 
have I suffered on account of him this night. And the Jews answering, say unto 
Pilate: Did we not tell thee that he was a sorcerer?
behold, he has sent a dream to thy wife. 
And Pilate, having summoned Jesus, says to Him: What do these witness against 
thee? Sayest thou nothing? And Jesus said: Unless they had the power, they would 
say nothing; for every one has the power of his own mouth to speak both good and 
evil. They shall see to it.

And the eiders of the Jews answered, and said to Jesus: What shall we see? 
first, that thou wast born of fornication; secondly, that thy birth in Bethlehem 
was the cause of the murder of the infants; thirdly, that thy father Joseph and 
thy mother Mary fled into Egypt because they had no confidence in the 
people.
Some of the bystanders, pious men of the Jews, say: we deny that he was born 
of fornication; for we know that Joseph espoused Mary, and he was not born of 
fornication. Pilate says to the Jews who said that he was of fornication: This 
story of yours is not true, because they were betrothed, as also these 
fellow-countrymen of yours say. Annas and Caiaphas say to Pilate: All the 
multitude of us cry out that he was born of fornication, and are not believed; 
these are proselytes, and his disciples. And Pilate, calling Annas and Caiaphas, 
says to them: What are proselytes? They say to him: They are by birth children 
of the Greeks, and have now become Jews. And those that said that He was not 
born of fornication, viz.-Lazarus, Asterius, Antonius, James, Atones, Zeras, 
Samuel, Isaac, Phinees, Crispus, Agrippas, and Judas
-say: We are not proselytes, but are children of the Jews, and speak of the 
truth; for we were present at the betrothal of Joseph and Mary.
And Pilate, calling these twelve men who said that He was not born of 
fornication, says to them: I adjure you by the health of Caesar, to tell me 
whether it be true that you say, that he was not born of fornication. They say 
to Pilate: We have a law against taking oaths, because it is a sin; but they 
will swear by the health of Caesar,
that it is not as we have said, and we are liable to death. Pilate says to Annas 
and Caiaphas: Have you nothing to answer to this? Annas and Caiaphas say to 
Pilate: These twelve are believed when they say that he was not born of 
fornication; all the multitude of us cry out that he was born of fornication, 
and that he is a sorcerer, and he says that he is the Son of God and a king, and 
we are not believed.
And Pilate orders all the multitude to go out, except the twelve men who said 
that He was not born of fornication, and he ordered Jesus to be separated from 
them. And Pilate says to them: For what reason do they wish to put him to death? 
They say to him: They are angry because he cures on the Sabbath. Pilate says: 
For a good work do they wish to put him to death? They say to him: Yes.

Chapter 3.
And Pilate, filled with rage, went outside of the praetorium, and said to 
them: I take the sun to witness
that I find no fault in this man. The Jews answered and said to the procurator: 
Unless this man were an evil-doer, we should not have delivered him to thee. And 
Pilate said, Do you take him, and judge him according to your law. The Jews said 
to Pilate: It is not lawful for us to put any one to death. Pilate said: Has God 
said that you are not to put to death, but that I am?
And Pilate went again into the praetorium, and spoke to Jesus privately, and 
said to Him: Art thou the king of the Jews? Jesus answered Pilate: Dost thou say 
this of thyself, or have others said it to thee of me? Pilate answered Jesus: Am 
I also a Jew?
Thy nation and the chief priests have given thee up to me. What hast thou done? 
Jesus answered: My kingdom is not of this world; for if my kingdom were of this 
world, my servants would fight in order that I should not be given up to the 
Jews: but now my kingdom is not from thence. Pilate said to Him: Art thou then a 
king? Jesus answered him: Thou sayest that I am a king. Because for this have I 
been born, and have I come, in order that every one who is of the truth might 
hear my voice. Pilate says to him: What is truth? Jesus says to him: Truth is 
from heaven. Pilate says: Is truth not upon earth? Jesus says to Pilate: Thou 
seest how those who speak the truth are judged by those that have the power upon 
earth.Chap. 4.
And leaving Jesus within the praetorium, Pilate went out to the Jews, and 
said to them: I find no fault in him. The Jews say to him: He said, I can 
destroy this temple, and in three days build it. Pilate says: What temple? The 
Jews say: The one that Solomon
built in forty-six years, and this man speaks of pulling it down and building it 
in three days. Pilate says to them: I am innocent of the blood of this just man. 
See you to it. The Jews say: His blood be upon us, and upon our children.
And Pilate having summoned the eiders and priests and Levites, said to them 
privately: Do not act thus, because no charge that you bring against him is 
worthy of death; for your charge is about curing and Sabbath profanation. The 
elders and the priests and the Levites say: If any one speak evil against 
Caesar, is he worthy of death or not? Pilate says: He is worthy of death The 
Jews say to Pilate: If any one speak evil against Caesar, he is worthy of death; 
but this man has spoken evil against God.
And the procurator ordered the Jews to go outside of the praetorium; and 
summoning Jesus, he says to Him: What shall I do to thee? Jesus says to Pilate: 
As it has been given to thee. Pilate says: How given? Jesus says: Moses and the 
prophets have proclaimed beforehand of my death and resurrection. And the Jews 
noticing this, and hearing it, say to Pilate: What more wilt thou hear of this 
blasphemy? Pilate says to the Jews: If these words be blasphemous, do you take 
him for the blasphemy, and lead him away to your synagogue, and judge him 
according to your law. The Jews say to Pilate: Our law bears that a man who 
wrongs his fellow-men is worthy to receive forty save one; but he that 
blasphemeth God is to be stoned with stones. 

Pilate says to them: Do you take him, and punish him in whatever way you 
please. The Jews say to Pilate: we wish that he be crucified. Pilate says: He is 
not deserving of crucifixion.
And the procurator, looking round upon the crowds of the Jews standing by, 
sees many of the Jews weeping, and says: All the multitude do not wish him to 
die. The elders of the Jews say: For this reason all the multitude of us have 
come, that he should die. Pilate says to the Jews: Why should he die? The Jews 
say: Because he called himself Son of God, and King.

Chapter 5.
And one Nicodemus, a Jew, stood before the procurator, and said: I beseech 
your honour, let me say a few words. Pilate says: Say on. Nicodemus says: I said 
to the elders and the priests and Levites, and to all the multitude of the Jews 
in the synagogue, What do you seek to do with this man? This man many miracles 
and strange things, which no one has done or will do. Let him go, and do not 
wish any evil against him. If the miracles which he does are of God, they will 
stand; but if man, they will come to nothing.
For assuredly Moses, being sent by God into Egypt, did many miracles, which the 
Lord commanded him to do before Pharaoh king of Egypt. And there were there 
Jannes and Jambres, servants of Pharaoh, and they also did not a few of the 
miracles which Moses did; and the Egyptians took them to be gods-this Jannes and 
this Jambres.
But, since the miracles which they did were not of God, both they and those who 
believed in them were destroyed. And now release this man, for he is not 
deserving of death.
The Jews say to Nicodemus: Thou hast become his disciple, and therefore thou 
defendest him. Nicodemus says to them: Perhaps, too, the procurator has become 
his disciple, because he defends him. Has the emperor not appointed him to this 
place of dignity? And the Jews were vehemently enraged, and gnashed their teeth 
against Nicodemus. Pilate says to I them: Why do you gnash your teeth against 
him when you hear the truth? The Jews say to Nicodemus: Mayst thou receive his 
truth and his portion. Nicodemus says: Amen, amen; may I receive it, as you have 
said.

Chapter 6.
One of the Jews, stepping up, asked leave of the procurator to say a word. 
The procurator says: If thou wishest to say any thing, say on And the Jew said: 
Thirty-eight years I lay in my bed in great agony. And when Jesus came, many 
demoniacs, and many lying ill of various diseases, were cured by him. And some 
young men, taking pity on me, carried me, bed and all, and took me to him. And 
when Jesus saw me, bed had compassion on me, and said to me: Take up thy couch 
and walk. And I took up my couch, and walked. The Jews say to pilate: Ask him on 
what day it was that he was cured. He that had been cured says: On a 
Sabbath.
The Jews say: Is not this the very thing that we said, that on a Sabbath he 
cures and casts out demons?
And another Jew stepped up and said: I was born blind; I heard sounds, but 
saw not a face. And as Jesus passed by, I cried out with a loud voice, Pity me, 
O son of David. And he pitied me, and put his hands upon my eyes, and I 
instantly received my sight.
And another Jew stepped up and said: I was crooked, and he straightened me with 
a word. And another said: I was a leper, and he cured me with a word.


Chapter 7.
And a woman
cried out from a distance, and said: I had an issue of blood, and I touched the 
hem of his garment, and the issue of blood which I had had for twelve years was 
stopped.
The Jews say: we have a law, that a woman's evidence is not to be 
received.


Chapter 8.
And others, a multitude both of men and women, cried out, saying: This man is 
a prophet, and the demons are subject to him. Pilate says to them who said that 
the demons were subject to Him: Why, then, were not your teachers also subject 
to him? They say to Pilate: We do not know. And others said: He raised Lazarus 
from the tomb after he had been dead four days.
And the procurator trembled, and said to all the multitude of the Jews: Why do 
you wish to pour out innocent blood?

Chapter 9.
And having summoned Nicodemus and the twelve men that said He was not born of 
fornication, he says to them: What shall I do, because there is an insurrection 
among the people? They say to him: We know not; let them see to it. Again 
Pilate, having summoned all the multitude of the Jews, says: You know that it is 
customary, at the feast of unleavened bread, to release one prisoner to you. I 
have one condemned prisoner in the prison, a murderer named Barabbas, and this 
man standing in your presence, Jesus, in whom I find no fault. Which of them do 
you wish me to release to you? And they cry out: Barabbas. Pilate says: What, 
then, shall we do to Jesus who is called Christ? The Jews say: Let him be 
crucified. And others said: Thou art no friend of Caesar's if thou release this 
man, because he called himself Son of God and king. You wish, then, this man to 
be king, and not Caesar?

And Pilate, in a rage, says to the Jews: Always has your nation been 
rebellious, and you always speak against your benefactors. The Jews say: What 
benefactors? He says to them: Your God led you out of the land of Egypt from 
bitter slavery, and brought you safe through the sea as through dry land, and in 
the desert fed you with manna, and gave you quails, and quenched your thirst 
with water from a rock, and gave you a law; and in all these things you provoked 
your God to anger, and sought a molten calf. And you exasperated your God, and 
He sought to slay you. And Moses prayed for you, and you were not put to death. 
And now you charge me with hating the emperor.

And rising up from the tribunal, he sought to go out. And the Jews cry out, 
and say: We know that Caesar is king, and not Jesus. For assuredly the magi 
brought gifts to him as to a king. And when Herod heard from the magi that a 
king had been born, he sought to slay him; and his father Joseph, knowing this, 
took him and his mother, and they fled into Egypt. And Herod hearing of it, 
destroyed the children of the Hebrews that had been born in Bethlehem.

And when Pilate heard these words, he was afraid; and ordering the crowd to 
keep silence, because they were crying out, he said to them: So this is he whom 
Herod sought? The Jews say: Yes, it is he. And, taking water, Pilate washed his 
hands in the face of the sun, saying: I am innocent of the blood of this just 
man; see you to it. Again the Jews cry out: His blood be upon us, and upon our 
children.
Then Pilate ordered the curtain of the tribunal where he was sitting to be 
drawn,
and says to Jesus: Thy nation has charged thee with being a king. On this 
account I sentence thee, first to be scourged, according to the enactment of 
venerable kings, and then to be fastened on the cross in the garden where thou 
wast seized. And let Dysmas and Gestas, the two malefactors, be crucified with 
thee.

Chapter 10.
And Jesus went forth out of the praetorium, and the two malefactors with Him. 
And when they came to the place, they stripped Him of his clothes, and girded 
Him with a towel, and put a crown of thorns on Him round His head. And they 
crucified Him; and at the same time also they hung up the two malefactors along 
with Him. And Jesus said: Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. 
And the soldiers parted His clothes among them; and the people stood looking at 
Him. And the chief priests, and the rulers with them, mocked Him, saying: He 
saved others; let him save himself. If he be the Son of God, let him come down 
from the cross. And the soldiers made sport of Him, coming near and offering Him 
vinegar mixed with gall, and said: Thou art the king of the Jews; save 
thyself.

And Pilate, after the sentence, ordered the charge made against Him to be 
inscribed as a superscription in Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew, according to what 
the Jews had said: He is king of the Jews.
And one of the malefactors hanging up spoke to Him, saying: If thou be the 
Christ, save thyself and us. And Dysmas answering, reproved him, saying: Dost 
thou not fear God, because thou art in the same condemnation? And we indeed 
justly, for we receive the fit punishment of our deeds; but this man has done no 
evil. And he said to Jesus: Remember me, Lord, in Thy kingdom. And Jesus said to 
him: Amen, amen; I say to thee, To-day shall thou be
with me in Paradise.

Chapter II.
And it was about the sixth hour, and there was darkness over the earth until 
the ninth hour, the sun being darkened; and the curtain of the temple was split 
in the middle. And crying out with a loud voice, Jesus said: Father, Baddach 
Ephkid Ruel, which is, interpreted: Into Thy hands I commit my spirit.
And having said this, He gave up the ghost. And the centurion, seeing what had 
happened, glorified God, and said: This was a just man. And all the crowds that 
were present at this spectacle, when they saw what had happened, beat their 
breasts and went away.
And the centurion reported what had happened to the procurator. And when the 
procurator and his wife heard it, they were exceedingly grieved, and neither ate 
nor drank that day. And Pilate sent for the Jews, and said to them: Have you 
seen what has happened? And they say: There has been an eclipse of the sun in 
the usual way.

And His acquaintances were standing at a distance, and the women who came 
with Him from Galilee, seeing these things. And a man named Joseph, a councillor 
from the city of Arimathaea, who also waited for the kingdom of God, went to 
Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus. And he took it down, and wrapped it in 
clean linen, and placed it in a tomb hewn out of the rock, in which no one had 
ever lain.

Chapter 12.
And the Jews, hearing that Joseph had begged the booty of Jesus, sought him 
and the twelve who said that Jesus was not born of fornication, and Nicodemus, 
and many others who had stepped up before Pilate and declared His good works. 
And of all these that were hid, Nicodemus alone was seen by them, because he was 
a ruler of the Jews. And Nicodemus says to them: How have you come into the 
synagogue? The Jews say to him: How hast thou come into the synagogue? for thou 
art a confederate of his, and his portion is with thee in the world to come. 
Nicodemus says: Amen, amen. And likewise Joseph also stepped out and said to 
them: Why are you angry against me because I begged the body of Jesus? Behold, I 
have put him in my new tomb, wrapping him in clean linen; and I have rolled a 
stone to the door of the tomb. And you have acted not well against the just man, 
because you have not repented of crucifying him, but also have pierced him with 
a spear. And the Jews seized Joseph, and ordered him to be secured until the 
first day of the week, and said to him: Know that the time does not allow us to 
do anything against thee, because the Sabbath is dawning; and know that thou 
shall not be deemed worthy of burial, but we shall give thy flesh to the birds 
of the air. Joseph says to them: These are the words of the arrogant Goliath, 
who reproached the living God and holy David.
For God has said by the prophet, Vengeance is mine, and I will repay, saith the 
Lord.
And now he that is uncircumcised in flesh, but circumcised in heart, has taken 
water, and washed his hands in the face of the sun, saying, I am innocent of the 
blood of this just man; see ye to it. And you answered and said to Pilate, His 
blood be upon us, and upon our children. And now I am afraid lest the wrath of 
God come upon you, and upon your children, as you have said. And the Jews, 
hearing these words, were embittered in their souls, and seized Joseph, and 
locked him into a room where there was no window; and guards were stationed at 
the door, and they sealed the door where Joseph was locked in.
And on the Sabbath, the rulers of the synagogue,
and the priests and the Levites, made a decree that all should be found in the 
synagogue on the first day of the week. And rising up early, all the multitude 
in the synagogue consulted by what death they should slay him. And when the 
Sanhedrin was sitting, they ordered him to be brought with much indignity. And 
having opened the door, they found him not. And all the people were surprised, 
and struck with dismay, because they found the seals unbroken. and because 
Caiaphas had the key. And they no longer dared to lay hands upon those who had 
spoken before Pilate in Jesus' behalf.

Chapter 13.
And while they were still sitting in the synagogue, and wondering about 
Joseph, there come some of the guard whom the Jews had begged of Pilate to guard 
the tomb of Jesus, that His disciples might not come and steal Him. And they 
reported to the rulers of the synagogue, and the priests and the Levites, what 
had happened: how there had been a great earthquake; and we saw an angel coming 
down from heaven, and he rolled away the stone from the mouth of the tomb, and 
sat upon it; and he shone like snow, and like lightning. And we were very much 
afraid, and lay like dead men; and we heard the voice of the angel saying to the 
women who remained beside the tomb, Be not afraid, for I know that you seek 
Jesus who was crucified. He is not here: He is risen, as He said. Come, see the 
place where the Lord lay: and go quickly, and tell His disciples that He is 
risen from the dead, and is in Galilee.

The Jews say: To what women did he speak? The men of the guard say: We do not 
know who they were. The Jews say: At what time was this? The men of the guard 
say: At midnight. The Jews say: And wherefore did you not lay hold of them? The 
men of the guard say: We were like dead men from fear, not expecting to see the 
light of day, and how could we lay hold of them? The Jews say: As the Lord 
liveth, we do not believe you. The men of the guard say to the Jews: You have 
seen so great miracles in the case of this man, and have not believed; and how 
can you believe us? And assuredly you have done well to swear that the Lord 
liveth, for indeed He does live. Again the men of the guard say: We have heard 
that you have locked up the man that begged the body of Jesus, and put a seal on 
the door; and that you have opened it, and not found him. Do you then give us 
the man whom you were guarding, and we shall give you Jesus. The Jews say: 
Joseph has gone away to his own city. The men of the guard say to the Jews: And 
Jesus has risen, as we heard from the angel, and is in Galilee.
And when the Jews heard these words, they were very much afraid, and said: We 
must take care lest this story he heard, and all incline to Jesus. And the Jews 
called a council, and paid down a considerable sum of money, and gave it to the 
soldiers, saying: Say, while we slept, his disciples came by night and stole 
him; and if this come to the ears of the procurator, we shall persuade him, and 
keep you out of trouble. And they took it, and said as the had been 
instructed.


Chapter 14.
And Phinees a priest, and Adas a teacher, and Haggai a Levite, came down from 
Galilee to Jerusalem, and said to the rulers of the synagogue, and the priests 
and the Levites: We saw Jesus and his disciples sitting on the mountain called 
Mamilch;
and he said to his disciples, Go into all the world, and preach to every 
creature: he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that 
believeth not shall be condemned. And these signs shall attend those who have 
believed: in my name they shall cast out demons, speak new tongues, take up 
serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall by no means hurt them; 
they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall be well. And while Jesus was 
speaking to his disciples, we saw him taken up to heaven.

The elders and the priests and Levites say: Give glory to the God of Israel, 
and confess to Him whether you have heard and seen those things of which you 
have given us an account. And those who had given the account said: As the Lord 
liveth, the God of our fathers Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, we heard these things, 
and saw him taken up into heaven. The ciders and the priests and the Levites say 
to them: Have you come to give us this announcement, or to offer prayer to God? 
And they say: To offer prayer to God. The elders and the chief priests and the 
Levites say to them: If you have come to offer prayer to God, why then have you 
told these idle tales in the presence of all the people?
Says Phinees the priest, and Atlas the teacher, and Haggai the Levite to the 
rulers of the synagogues. and the priests and the Levites: If what we have said 
and seen be sinful, behold, we are before you; do to us as seems good in your 
eyes. And they took the law, and made them swear upon it, not to give any more 
an account of these matters to any one. And they gave them to cat and drink, and 
sent them out of the city, having given them also money, and three men with 
them; and they sent them away to Galilee.And these men having gone into Galilee, 
the chief priests, and the rulers of the synagogue, and the elders, came 
together into the synagogue, and locked the door, and lamented with a great 
lamentation, saying: Is this a miracle that has happened in Israel? And Annas 
and Caiaphas said: Why are you so much moved? Why do you weep? Do you not know 
that his disciples have given a sum of gold to the guards of the tomb, and have 
instructed them to say that an angel came down and rolled away the stone from 
the door of the tomb? And the priests and the elders sand: Be it that his 
disciples have stolen his body; how is it that the life has come into his body, 
and that he is going, about in Galilee? And they being unable to give an answer 
to these things, said, after great hesitation: It is not lawful for us to 
believe the uncircumcised.

Chapter 15.
And Nicodemus stood up, and stood before the Sanhedrin, saying: You say 
well;
you are not ignorant, you people of the Lord, of these men that come down from 
Galilee, that they fear God, and are men of substance, haters of covetousness, 
men of peace; and they have declared with an oath. We saw Jesus upon the 
mountain Mamilch with his disciples, and he taught what we heard from him, and 
we saw him taken up into heaven. And no one asked them in what form he went up. 
For assuredly, as the book of the Holy Scriptures taught us, Helias also was 
taken up into heaven, and Elissaeus cried out with a loud voice, and Helias 
threw his sheepskin upon Elissaeus, and Elissaeus threw his sheepskin upon the 
Jordan, and crossed, and came into Jericho. And the children of the prophets met 
him, and said, O Elissaeus, where is thy master Helias? And he said, He has been 
taken up into heaven. And they said to Elissaeus, Has not a spirit seized him, 
arid thrown him upon one of the mountains? But let us take our servants
with us, and seek him. And they persuaded Elissaeus, and he went away with them. 
And they sought him three days, and did not find him; and they knew he had been 
taken up.
And now listen to me, and let us send into every district of Israel, and see 
lest perchance Christ has been taken up by a spirit, and thrown upon one of the 
mountains? And this proposal pleased all. And they sent into every district of 
Israel, and sought Jesus, and did not find Him; but they found Joseph in 
Arimathaea, and no one dared to lay hands on him.
And they reported to the elders, and the priests, and the Levites: We have 
gone round to every district of Israel, and have not found Jesus; but Joseph we 
have found in Arimathaea. And hearing about Joseph, they were glad, and gave 
glory to the God of Israel. And the rulers of the synagogue, and the priests and 
the Levites, having held a council as to the manner in which they should meet 
with Joseph, took a piece of paper, and wrote to Joseph as follows:-
Peace to thee! We know that we have sinned against God, and against thee; and 
we have prayed to the God of Israel, that thou shouldst deign to come to thy 
fathers, and to thy children, because we have all been grieved. For having 
opened the door, we did not find thee. And we know that we have counselled evil 
counsel against thee; but the Lord has defended thee, and the Lord Himself has 
scattered to the winds our counsel against thee, O honourable father Joseph.
And they chose from all Israel seven men, friends of Joseph, whom also Joseph 
himself was acquainted with; and the rulers of the synagogue, and the priests 
and the Levites, say to them: Take notice: if, after receiving our letter, he 
read it, know that he will come with you to us; but if he do not read it, know 
that he is ill-disposed towards us. And having saluted him in peace, return to 
us. And having blessed the men, they dismissed them. And the men came to Joseph, 
and did reverence to him, and said to him: Peace to thee! And he said: Peace to 
you, and to all the people of Israel! And they gave him the roll of the letter. 
And Joseph having received it, read the letter and rolled it up, and blessed 
God, and said: Blessed be the Lord God, who has delivered Israel, that they 
should not shed innocent blood; and blessed be the Lord, who sent out His angel, 
and covered me under his wings. And he set a table for them; and they ate and 
drank, and slept there. And they rose up early, and prayed. And Joseph saddled 
his ass, and set out with the men; and they came to the holy city Jerusalem. And 
all the people met Joseph, and cried out: Peace to thee in thy coming in! And he 
said to all the people: Peace to you! and he kissed them. And the people prayed 
with Joseph, and they were astonished at the sight of him. And Nicodemus 
received him into his house, and made a great feast, and called Annas and 
Caiaphas, and the elders, and the priests, and the Levites to his house. And 
they rejoiced, eating and drinking with Joseph; and after singing hymns, each 
proceeded to his own house. But Joseph remained in the house of Nicodemus.
And on the following day, which was the preparation, the rulers of the 
synagogue and the priests and the Levites went early to the house of Nicodemus; 
and Nicodemus met them, and said: Peace to you! And they said: Peace to thee, 
and to Joseph, and to all thy house, and to all the house of Joseph! And he 
brought them into his house. And all the Sanhedrin sat down, and Joseph sat down 
between Annas and Caiaphas: and no one dared to say a word to him. And Joseph 
said: Why have you called me? And they signalled to Nicodemus to speak to 
Joseph. And Nicodemus, opening his mouth, said to Joseph: Father, thou knowest 
that the honourable teachers, and the priests and the Levites, see to learn a 
word from thee. And Joseph said: Ask. And Annas and Caiaphas having taken the 
law, made Joseph swear, saying: Give glory to the God of Israel, and give Him 
confession; for Achar being made to swear by the prophet Jesus,
did not forsware himself, but declared unto him all, and did not hide a word 
from him. Do thou also accordingly not hide from us to the extent of a word. And 
Joseph said: I shall not hide from you one word. And they said to him: With 
grief were we grieved because thou didst beg the body of Jesus, and wrap it in 
clean linen, and lay it in a tomb. And on account of this we secured thee in a 
room where there was no windows: and we put locks and seals upon the doors and 
guards kept watching where thou wast locked in And on the first day of the week 
we opened, and found thee not, and were grieved exceedingly; and astonishment 
fell upon all the people of the Lord until yesterday. And now relate to us what 
has happened to thee.
And Joseph said: On the preparation, about the tenth hour, you locked me up, 
and I remained all the Sabbath. And at midnight, as I was standing and praying, 
the room where you locked me in was hung up by the four corners, and I saw a 
light like lightning into my eyes.
And I was afraid, and fell to the ground. And some one took me by the hand, and 
removed me from the place where I had fallen; and moisture of water was poured 
from my head even to my feet, and a smell of perfumes came about my nostrils. 
And he wiped my face, and kissed me, and said to me, Fear not, Joseph; open 
thine eyes, and see who it is that speaks to thee. And looking up, I saw Jesus. 
And I trembled and thought it was a phantom; and I said the commandments, and he 
said them with me.
Even so you are not ignorant that a phantom, if it meet anybody, and hear the 
commandments, takes to flight. And seeing that he said them with the, I said to 
him, Rabbi Helias. And he said to me, I am not Helias. And I said to him, Who 
art thou, my lord? And he said to me, I am Jesus, whose body thou didst beg from 
Pilate; and thou didst clothe me with clean, linen. and didst put a napkin on my 
face, and didst lay me in thy new tomb, and didst roll a great stone to the door 
of the tomb. And I said to him that was speaking to me, Show me the place where 
I laid thee. And he carried me away, and showed me the place where I laid him; 
and the linen cloth was lying in it, and the napkin for his face. And I knew 
that it was Jesus. And he took me by the hand, and placed me, though the doors 
were locked, in the middle of my house, and led me away to my bed, and said to 
me, Peace to thee! And he kissed me, and said to me, For forty days go not forth 
out of thy house; for, behold, I go to my brethren into Galilee.

Chapter 16.
And the rulers of the synagogue, and the priests and the Levites, when they 
heard these words from Joseph, became as dead, and fell to the ground, and 
fasted until the ninth hour. And Nicodemus, along with Joseph, exhorted Annas 
and Caiaphas, the priests and the Levites, saying: Rise up and stand upon your 
feet, and taste bread, and strengthen your souls, because to-morrow is the 
Sabbath of the Lord. And they rose up, and prayed to God, and ate and drank, and 
departed every man to his own house.
And on the Sabbath our teachers and the priests and Levites sat questioning 
each other, and saying: What is this wrath that has come upon us? for we know 
his father and mother. Levi, a teacher, says: I know that his parents fear God, 
and do not withdraw themselves from the prayers, and give the tithes thrice a 
year.
And when Jesus was born, his parents brought him to this place, and gave 
sacrifices and burnt-offerings to God. And when the great teacher Symeon took 
him into his arms, he said, Now Thou sendest away Thy servant, Lord, according 
to Thy word, in peace; for mine eyes have seen Thy salvation, which Thou hast 
prepared before the face of all the peoples: a light for the revelation of the 
Gentiles, and the glory of Thy people Israel. And Symeon blessed them, and said 
to Mary his mother, I give thee good news about this child. And Mary said, It is 
well, my lord. And Symeon said to her, It is well; behold, he lies for the fall 
and rising again of many in Israel, and for a sign spoken against; and of thee 
thyself a sword shall go through the soul, in order that the reasoning of many 
hearts may be revealed.

They say to the teacher Levi: How knowest thou these things? Levi says to 
them: Do you not know that from him I learned the law? The Sanhedrin say to him: 
We wish to see thy father. And they sent for his father. And they asked him; and 
he said to them: Why have you not believed my son? The blessed and just Symeon 
himself taught him the law. The Sanhedrin says to Rabbi Levi: Is the word that 
you have said true? And he said: It is true. And the rulers of the synagogue, 
and the priests and the Levites, said to themselves: Come, let us send into 
Galilee to the three men that came and told about his teaching and his taking 
up, and let them tell us how they saw him taken up. And this saying pleased all. 
And they sent away the three men who had already gone away into Galilee with 
them; and they say to them: Say to Rabbi Adas, and Rabbi Phinees, and Rabbi 
Haggai: Peace to you, and all who are with you! A great inquiry having taken 
place in tile Sanhedrin, we have been sent to you to call you to this holy 
place, Jerusalem.
And the men set out into Galilee, and found them sitting and considering the 
law; and they saluted them in peace. And the men who were in Galilee said to 
those who had come to them: Peace upon all Israel! And they said: Peace to you! 
And they again said to them: Why have you come? And those who had been sent 
said: The Sanhedrin call you to the holy city Jerusalem. And when the men heard 
that they were sought by the Sanhedrin, they prayed to God, and reclined with 
the men, and ate and drank, and rose up, and set out in peace to Jerusalem.
And on the following day the Sanhedrin sat in the synagogue, and asked them, 
saying: Did you really see Jesus sitting on the mountain Mamilch teaching his 
eleven disciples, and did you see him taken up? And the men answered them, and 
said: As we saw him taken up, so also we said.
Annas says: Take them away from one another, and let us see whether their 
account agrees. And they took them away from one another. And first they call 
Adas, and say to him: How didst thou see Jesus taken up? Adas says: While he was 
yet sitting on the mountain Mamilch, and teaching his disciples, we saw a cloud 
overshadowing both him and his disciples. And the cloud took him up into heaven, 
and his disciples lay upon their face upon the earth. And they call Phinees the 
priest, and ask him also, saying: How didst thou see Jesus taken up? And he 
spoke in like manner. And they again asked Haggai, and he spoke in like manner. 
And the Sanhedrin said: The law of Moses holds: At the mouth of two or three 
every word shall be established.
Buthem, a teacher, says: It is written in the law, And Enoch walked with God, 
and is not, because God took him.
Jairus, a readier, said: And the death of holy Moses we have heard of, and have 
not seen it; for it is written in the law of the Lord, And Moses died from the 
mouth of the Lord, and no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day.
And Rabbi Levi said: Why did Rabbi Symeon say, when he saw Jesus, "Behold, he 
lies for the fall and rising again of many in Israel, and for a sign spoken 
against?"
And Rabbi Isaac said: It is written in the law, Behold, I send my messenger 
before thy face, who shall go before thee to keep thee in every good way, 
because my name has been called upon him. 

Then Annas and Caiaphas said: Rightly have you said what is written in the 
law of Moses, that no one saw the death of Enoch, and no one has named the death 
of Moses; hut Jesus was tried before Pilate, and we saw him receiving blows and 
spittings on his face, and the soldiers put about him a crown of thorns, and he 
was scourged, and received sentence from Pilate, and was crucified upon the 
Cranium, and two robbers with him; and they gave him to drink vinegar with gall, 
and Longinus the soldier pierced his side with a spear; and Joseph our 
honourable father begged his body, and, as he says, he is risen; and as the 
three teachers say, We saw him taken up into heaven; and Rabbi Levi has given 
evidence of what was said by Rabbi Symeon, and that he said, Behold, he lies for 
the fall and rising again of many in Israel, and for a sign spoken against. And 
all the teachers said to all the people of the Lord: If this was from the Lord, 
and is wonderful in your eyes, 
knowing you shall know, O house of Jacob, that it is written, Cursed is every 
one that hangeth upon a tree.
And another Scripture teaches: The gods which have not made the heaven and the 
earth shall be destroyed.
And the priests and the Levites said to each other: If his memorial be until the 
year that is called Jobel,
know that it shall it endure for ever, and he hath raised for himself a new 
people. Then the rulers of the synagogue, and the priests and the Levites, 
announced to all Israel, saying: Cursed is that man who shall worship the work 
of man's hand, and cursed is the man who shall worship the creatures more than 
the Creator. And all the people said, Amen, amen.

And all the people praised
the Lord, and said: Blessed is the Lord, who hath given rest to His people 
Israel, according to all that He hath spoken; there hath not fallen one word of 
every good word of His that He spoke to Moses His servant. May the Lord our God 
be with us, as He was with our fathers: let Him not destroy us. And let Him not 
destroy us, that we may incline our hearts to Him, that we may walk in all His 
ways, that we may keep His commandments and His judgments which He commanded to 
our fathers.
And the Lord shall be for a king over all the earth in that day; and there shall 
he one Lord, and His name one.
The Lord is our king: He shall save us.
There is none like Thee, O Lord.
Great art Thou, O Lord, and great is Thy name. By Thy power heal us. O Lord, and 
we shall be healed: save us, O Lord, and we shall be saved;
because we are Thy lot and heritage. And the Lord will not leave His people, for 
His great name's sake; for the Lord has begun to make us into His people.

And all, having sung praises, went away each man to his own house, glorifying 
God; for His is the glory for ever and ever. Amen. 

Second Greek Form.
A Narrative about the suffering of our Lord Jesus Christ, and His holy 
resurrection.
Written by a Jew, Aeneas by name, and translated out of the Hebrew tongue 
into the Romaic language by Nicodemus, a Roman toparch.
After the dissolution of the kingdom of the Hebrews, four hundred years 
having run their course, and the Hebrews also coming at last under the kingdom 
of the Romans, and the king of the Romans appointing them a king; when Tiberius 
Caesar at last swayed the Roman sceptre, in the eighteenth year of his 
reign,
he appointed as king of Judaea, Herod, the son of the Herod who had formerly 
slaughtered the infants in Bethlehem, and he made Pilate procurator in 
Jerusalem; when Annas and Caiaphas held the high-priesthood of Jerusalem, 
Nicodemus, a Roman toparch, having summoned a Jew, Aeneas by name, asked him to 
write an account of the things done in Jerusalem about Christ in the times of 
Annas and Caiaphas. The Jew accordingly did this, and delivered it to Nicodemus; 
and he, again, translated it from the Hebrew writing into the Romaic language. 
And the account is as follows:-

Chapter I.
Our Lord Jesus Christ having wrought in Judaea many and great and 
extraordinary miracles, and on account of this being hated by the Hebrews, while 
Pilate was procurator in Jerusalem, and Annas and Caiaphas high priests, there 
came of the Jews to the chief priests, Judas, Levi, Nephthalim, Alexander, 
Syrus, and many others, speaking against Christ. And these chief priests sent 
them away to say these things to Pilate also. And they went away, and said to 
him: A man walks about in this city whose father is called Joseph, and his 
mother Mary; and he calls himself king and Son of God; and being a Jew, he 
overturns the Scriptures, and does away with the Sabbath. Pilate then asked, in 
order to learn from them in what manner lie did away with the Sabbath. And they 
answered, saying: He cures tile sick on the Sabbath. Pilate says: If he makes 
the sick whole, he does no evil. They say to him: If he effected the cures 
properly, small would be the evil; but by using magic he does these things, and 
by having the demons on his side. Pilate says: To cure a person that is ill is 
not a diabolic work, but a grace from God.
The Hebrews said: We beseech your highness to summon him, in order that thou 
mayst make accurate inquiry into what we say. Pilate therefore, throwing off his 
cloak, gave it to one of his officers,
saying: Go away, and show this to Jesus, and say to him, Pilate the procurator 
calls thee to come before him. The officer accordingly went away, and finding 
Jesus, summoned Him, having unfolded on the ground also Pilate's mantle, and 
urged Him to walk upon it. And the Hebrews, seeing this, and being greatly 
enraged, came to Pilate, murmuring against him, how he had deemed Jesus worthy 
of so great honour.
And he, having inquired of the officer who had been sent how he had done so, 
the officer answered: When thou didst send me to the Jew Alexander, I came upon 
Jesus entering the gate of the city, sitting upon an ass. And I saw that the 
Hebrews spread their garments in the way, and the ass walked upon the garments; 
and others cut branches, and they went forth to meet him, and cried out, Hosanna 
in the highest! Thus, therefore, it was necessary for me also to do.
The Jews, hearing these words, said to him: How didst thou, being a Roman, 
know what was said by the Hebrews? The officer answered: I asked one of the 
Hebrews, and he told the these things. Pilate said: What means Hosanna? The Jews 
said: Save us, O Lord. Pilate answered: Since you confess that your children 
said so, how now do you bring charges, and say against Jesus what you do say? 
The Jews were silent, and had nothing to answer.

Now, as Jesus was coming to Pilate, the soldiers of Pilate adored Him. And 
others also were standing before Pilate holding standards. And as Jesus was 
coming, the standards also bowed down, and adored Him. As Pilate, therefore, was 
wondering at what had happened, the Jews said to him: My lord, it was not the 
standards that adored Jesus, but the soldiers who were holding them 
carelessly.
Pilate says to the ruler of the synagogue: Choose twelve powerful men, and 
give them the standards, so that they may hold them firmly. And this having 
taken place, Pilate ordered the officer to take Jesus outside, and bring Him in 
again. And as He was coming in, the standards again bowed down, and adored Him. 
Pilate therefore wondered greatly. But the Jews said: He is a magician, and 
through that he does these things.

Chapter 2.
Pilate says to Jesus: Hearest thou what these testify against thee, and 
answerest thou not?
And Jesus answered and said: Every man has power to speak either good or bad, as 
he wishes; these also, therefore, having power, say what they wish.

The Jews said to Him: What have we to say about thee? First, that thou wast 
begotten from sin; second, that on account of thee, when thou wast born, the 
infants
were murdered; third, that thy father and thy mother fled into Egypt, because 
they had no confidence in the people.
To these the Jews who were there present, God-fearing men, answered and said: 
We say that his birth is not from sin; for we know that Joseph received into 
keeping his mother Mary, according to the practice of betrothal. Pilate said: 
Consequently you lie who say that his birth is from sin. They say again to 
Pilate: All the people testify that he is a magician. The God-fearing Jews 
answered and said: We also were at the betrothal of his mother, and we are Jews, 
and know all his daily life; but that he is a magician, that we do not know. And 
the Jews that thus said were these: Lazarus, Astharius, Antonius, James, Zaras, 
Samuel, Isaac, Phinees, Crispus, Dagrippus, Amese, and Judas.
Pilate therefore says to them: By the life of Caesar, I wish you to swear 
whether the birth of this man is without sin. They answered: Our law lays down 
that we are to swear not at all, because an oath is great sin. Notwithstanding, 
by the life of Caesar we swear that his birth is without sin; and if we lie, 
order us all to be beheaded. And when they had thins spoken, the Jews that were 
bringing the charge answered Pilate, and said: And dost thou believe these 
twelve single Jews more than all the multitude and us, who know for certain that 
he is a magician and blasphemer, and that he names himself Son of God?
Then Pilate ordered them all to go forth out of the praetorium except the 
said twelve alone. And when this had been done, Pilate says to them privately: 
As to this man, it appears that from envy and madness the Jews wish to murder 
him: for of one thing-that he does away with the Sabbath-they accuse him; but he 
then does a good work, because he cures the sick. For this, sentence of death is 
not upon the man. The twelve also say to him: Assuredly, my lord, it is so.

Chapter 3.
Pilate therefore went outside in rage and anger, and says to Annas and 
Caiaphas, and to the crowd who brought Jesus: I take the sun to witness that I 
find no fault in this man. The crowd answered: If he were not a sorcerer, and a 
magician, and a blasphemer, we should not have brought him to your highness. 
Pilate said: Try him yourselves; and since you have a law, do as your law says. 
The Jews said: Our law permits to put no man to death.
Pilate says: If you are unwilling to put him to death, how much more am I!
Then Pilate returned to the palace, and says to Jesus: Tell me, art thou the 
king of the Jews? Jesus answered: Dost thou say this, or have the other Jews 
said this to thee, that thou mightst question me? Pilate said: Thou dost not 
think that I am a Hebrew? I am not a Hebrew. Thy people and the chief priests 
have delivered thee into my hands; and tell me if thou art king of the Jews? 
Jesus answered: My kingdom is not of this world; for if my kingdom were in this 
world, my soldiers would not be unconcerned at my being seized: wherefore my 
kingdom is not in this world. Pilate says: But art thou a king? Jesus said: Thou 
hast said: for this was I born, to bear witness to the truth; and if any one be 
a man of the truth, he believes my word, and does it. Pilate says: What is the 
truth?
Jesus answered: The truth is from the heavens. Pilate says: On earth, then, is 
there no truth? Christ says: I am the truth; and how is the truth judged on 
earth by those that have earthly power!

Chapter 4.
Pilate therefore, leaving Christ alone, went outside, and says to the Jews: I 
find no fault in this man. The Jews answered: Let us tell your highness what he 
said. He said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and in three days to 
build it. Pilate says: And what temple did he say that he was to destroy? The 
Hebrews say: The temple of Solomon, which Solomon built in forty-six 
years.

Pilate says privately to the chief priests and the scribes and the Pharisees: 
I entreat you, do nothing evil against this man; for if you do evil against him, 
you will do unjustly: for it is not just that such a man should die, who has 
done great good to many men. They said to Pilate: If, my lord, he who has 
dishonoured Caesar is worthy of death, how much more this man who 
dishonours God!
Then Pilate dismissed them, and they all went outside. Thereupon he says to 
Jesus: dost thou wish that I shall do to thee? Jesus says to Pilate: Do to me as 
is determined. Pilate says: How is it determined? Jesus answered: Moses and the 
prophets wrote about me being crucified, and rising again. The Hebrews, hearing 
this, said to Pilate: Why do you seek to hear a greater insult out of him 
against God? Pilate says: These words are not an insult against God, since they 
are written in the books of the prophets. The Hebrews said: Our Scripture says, 
If a man offend against a man, that is to say, if he insult him, he is worthy to 
receive forty strokes with a rod; but if any one insult God, to be 
stoned.

Then came a messenger from Procle, the wife of Pilate, to him; and the 
message said: Take care that thou do not agree that any evil should happen to 
Jesus the good man; because during this night I have seen fearful dreams on 
account of him.
And Pilate spoke to the Hebrews, saying: If you hold as insult against God the 
words which you declare Jesus to have spoken, take and judge him yourselves 
according to your law.
The Jews said to Pilate: We wish that you should crucify him. Pilate says: This 
is not good.
And Pilate, turning towards the people, saw many weeping, and said: To me it 
seems that it is not the wish of all the people that this man should die. The 
priests and the scribes say: We on this account have brought all the people, 
that thou mightst have full conviction that all wish his death. Pilate says: For 
what evil hath he done? The Hebrews said: He says that he is a king, and the Son 
of God.

Chapter 5.
A God-fearing Jew, therefore, Nicodemus by name, stood up in the midst, and 
said to Pilate: I entreat your highness to permit me to say a few words. Say on, 
said Pilate. Nicodemus says: I, being present in the synagogue, said to the 
priests, and the Levites, and the scribes, and the people, What have you to say 
against this man? This man does many miracles, such as man has never yet done 
nor will do. Let him go, therefore; and if indeed what he does be from God, it 
will stand; but if from man, it will be destroyed.
Just as happened also when God sent Moses into Egypt, and Pharoah king of Egypt 
told him to do a miracle, and he did it. Then Pharoah had also two magicians, 
Jannes and Jambres; and they also did miracles by the use of magic art, but not 
such as Moses did. 
And the Egyptians held these magicians to be gods; but because they were not 
from God, what they did was destroyed. This Jesus, then, raised up Lazarus, and 
he is alive. On this account I entreat thee, my lord, by no means to allow this 
man to be put to death.
The Hebrews were enraged against Nicodemus, and said: Mayst thou receive the 
truth of Jesus, and have a portion with him. Nicodemus says: Amen, amen; be it 
to me as you say.

Chapter 6.
And when Nicodemus had thus spoken, another Hebrew rose up, and said to 
Pilate: I beg of thee, my lord Pilate, hear me also. Pilate answered: Say what 
thou wishest. The Hebrew says: I lay sick in bed thirty-eight years; and when he 
saw me he was grieved, and said to me, Rise, take up thy couch, and go into 
thine house. And while he was saying the word to me, I rose and walked about. 
The Hebrews say: Ask him on what day of the week this happened. He says: On 
Sabbath.
The Jews said: And consequently we say truly, that he does not keep the 
Sabbath.
Another, again, standing in the midst, said: I was born blind; and as Jesus 
was going along the road, I cried to him, saying, Have mercy upon me, Lord, thou 
son of David. And he took clay, and anointed mine eyes; and straight, way I 
received my sight.
Another said: I was crooked; and seeing him, I cried, Have mercy upon me, O 
Lord. And he took me by the hand, and I was immediately raised.
Another said: I was a leper, and he healed me merely by a word.


Chapter 7.
There was found there also a woman named Veronica, and she said: Twelve years 
I was in an issue of blood, and I only touched the edge of his garment, and 
directly I was cured.
The Jews say: Our law does not admit the testimony of a woman.


Chapter 8.
Other men cried: This man is a prophet, and the demons are afraid of him. 
Pilate says: And how were the demons not at all thus afraid of your parents 
also? They say: We do not know. Others, again, said: Lazarus, after having been 
four days in the tomb, he raised by a single word.
Pilate therefore, hearing of the raising of Lazarus, was afraid, and said to the 
people: Why do you wish to shed the blood of a just man? 

Chapter 9.
Then he summoned Nicodemus and the twelve God-fearing Jews, and said to them: 
What do you say that I should do? because the people are in commotion They say: 
We do not know: do as thou wilt; but what the people do, they do unjustly, in 
order to kill him. Pilate again went outside, and said to the people: You know 
that in the feasts of unleavened bread it is customary that I free on your 
account one of the criminals kept in custody. I have, then, one malefactor in 
the prison, a robber named Barabbas. I have also Jesus, who has never done any 
evil. Which of the two, then, do you wish that I release to you? The people 
answered: Release to us Barabbas. Pilate says: What then shall I do with Jesus? 
They say: Let him be crucified.
Again, others of them cried out: If thou release Jesus, thou art no friend of 
Caesar,
because he calls himself Son of God, and king. And if thou free him, he becomes 
a king, and will take Caesar's kingdom.
Pilate therefore was enraged, and said: Always has your nation been 
devilish
and unbelieving; and ever have you been adversaries to your benefactors. The 
Hebrews say: And who were our benefactors? Pilate says: God, who freed you out 
of the hand of Pharaoh, and brought yon through the Red Sea as upon dry land, 
and fed you with quails, and gave you water to drink out of the dry rock, and 
who gave you a law which, denying God you broke; and if Moses had not stood and 
entreated God, you would have perished by a bitter death. All these, then, you 
have forgotten. Thus also, even now, you say that I do not at all love Caesar, 
but bate him, and wish to plot against his kingdom.
And having thus spoken, Pilate rose up from the throne with anger, wishing to 
flee from them. The Jews therefore cried out, saying: We wish Caesar to be king 
over us, not Jesus, because Jesus received gifts
from the Magi. And Herod also heard this-that there was going to be a king-and 
wished to put him to death, and for this purpose sent and put to death all the 
infants that were in Bethlehem. And on this account also his father Joseph and 
iris mother fleet from fear of him into Egypt.

So then Pilate, hearing this, silenced all the people, and said: This, 
then, is the Jesus whom Herod then sought that he might put him to death? They 
say to him: Yes. Pilate therefore, having ascertained that he was of the 
jurisdiction of Herod, as being derived of the race of the Jews, sent Jesus to 
him. And Herod, seeing Him, rejoiced greatly, because he had been long desiring 
to see Him, hearing of the miracles which He did. He put on Him, therefore, 
white garments. Then he began to question Him. But Jesus did not give him an 
answer. And Herod, wishing to see also some miracle or other done by Jesus, and 
not seeing it, and also because He did not answer him a single word, sent Him 
back again to Pilate.
Pilate. seeing this, ordered his officers to bring water. Washing, then, his 
bands with the water, he said to the people: I am innocent of the blood of this 
good man. See yon to it. that he is unjustly put to death, since neither I have 
found a fault in him, nor Herod; for because of this he has sent him back again 
to me. The Jews said: His blood be upon us, and upon our children.

Then Pilate sat down upon his throne to pass sentence. He gave order, 
therefore, and Jesus came before him. And they brought a crown of thorns, and 
put it on His head, and a reed into His right hand.
Then he passed sentence, and said to Him: Thy nation says, and testifies against 
thee, that thou wishest to be a king. Therefore I decree that they shall beat 
thee first with a rod forty strokes, as the laws of the kings decree, and that 
they shall mock thee; and finally, that they shall crucify thee.

Chapter 10.
The sentence to this effect, then, having been passed by Pilate, the Jews 
began to strike Jesus, some with roots, others with their hands, others 
with their feet; some also spat in His face. Immediately, therefore, they 
got ready the cross, and gave it to Him, and flew to take the road. And thus 
going along, bearing also the cross, He came as far as the gate of the city of 
Jerusalem. But as He, from the many blows and the weight of the cross, was 
unable to walk, the Jews, out of the eager desire they had to crucify Him as 
quickly as possible, took the cross from Him, and gave it to a man that met 
them, Simon by name, who had also two sons, Alexander and Rufus. And he was from 
the city of Cyrene.
They gave the cross, then, to him, not because they pitied Jesus, and wished to 
lighten Him of the weight, but because they eagerly desired, as has been said, 
to put Him to death more speedily.
Of His disciples, therefore, John followed Him there. Then he came fleeing to 
the mother of God.
and said to her: Where hast thou been, that thou hast not come to see what has 
happened? She answered: What is it that has happened? John says: Know that the 
Jews have laid hold of my Master, and are taking Him away to crucify Him. 
Hearing this, His mother cried out with a loud voice, saying: My son, my son, 
what evil then hast thou done, that
they are taking thee away to crucify thee? And she rose up as if blinded,
and goes along the road weeping. And women followed her-Martha, and Mary 
Magdalene, and Salome, and other virgins. And John also was with her. When, 
therefore, they came to the multitude of the crowd, the mother of God says to 
John: Where is my son? John says: Seest thou Him bearing the crown of thorns, 
and having His hands bound? And the mother of God, hearing this, and seeing Him, 
fainted, and fell backwards to the ground, and lay a considerable time. And the 
women, as many as followed her, stood round her, and wept. And as soon as she 
revived and rose up, she cried out with a loud voice: My Lord, my son, where has 
the beauty of thy form sunk? how shall I endure to see thee suffering such 
things? And thus saying, she tore her face with her nails, and beat her breast. 
Where are they gone, said she, the good deeds which thou didst in Judaea? What 
evil hast thou done to the Jews? The Jews, then, seeing her thus lamenting and 
crying, came and drove her from the road; but she would not flee, but remained, 
saying: Kill me first, ye lawless Jews.
Then they got safe to the place called Cranium, which was paved with 
stone;
and there the Jews set up the cross. Then they stripped Jesus, and the soldiers 
took His garments, and divided them among themselves; and they put on Him a 
tattered robe of scarlet, and raised Him, and drew Him up on the cross at the 
sixth hour of the day. After this they brought also two robbers, the one on His 
right, the other on His left.
Then the mother of God, standing and looking, cried out with a loud voice, 
saying: My son! my son: And Jesus, turning to her, and seeing John near her, and 
weeping with the rest of the women, said: Behold thy son! Then He says also to 
John: Behold thy mother!
And she wept much, saying: For this I weep, my son, because thou sufferest 
unjustly, because the lawless Jews have delivered thee to a bitter death. 
Without thee, my son, what will become of me? How shall I live without thee? 
What sort of life shall I spend? Where are thy disciples, who boasted that they 
would die with thee? Where those healed by thee? How has no one been found to 
help thee? And looking to the cross, she said: Bend down, O cross, that I may 
embrace and kiss my son, whom I suckled at these breasts after a strange manner, 
as not having known than. Bend down, O cross; I wish to throw my arms round my 
son. Bend down, O cross, that I may bid farewell to my son like a mother. The 
Jews, hearing these words, came forward, and drove to a distance both her and 
the women and John.
Then Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying: Father, let not this sin 
stand against them; for they know not what they do.
Then He says: I thirst. And immediately there ran one of the soldiers, and took 
a sponge, and filled it with gall and vinegar mixed, and put it on a reed, and 
gave Jesus to drink. And having tasted it, He would not drink it.
And the Jews standing and looking on laughed at Him, and said: If thou truly 
sayst that thou art the Son of God, come down from the cross, and immediately, 
that we may believe in thee. Others said mocking: Others he saved, others he 
cured, and he healed the sick, the paralytic, the lepers, the demoniacs, the 
blind, the lame, the dead; and himself he cannot cure.

In the same manner also, the robber crucified on His left hand said to Him: 
If thou art the Son of God, come down and save both thyself and us. His name was 
Gistas. And he that was crucified on the right, Dysmas by name, reproved that 
robber, saying: O wretched and miserable man, dost thou not fear God? We suffer 
the due punishment of what we have done; but this man has done no evil at all. 
And turning to Jesus, he says to Him: Lord, when Thou shalt reign do not forget 
me. And He said to him: To-day, I tell thee truth, I shall have thee in paradise 
with me.


Chapter 11.
Then Jesus, crying out with a loud voice, Father, into Thy hands I shall 
commit my spirit, breathed His last.
And immediately one could see the rocks rent: for there was an earthquake over 
all the earth; and from the earthquake being violent and great, the rocks also 
were rent. And the tombs of the dead were opened, and the curtain of the temple 
was rent, and there was darkness from the sixth hour till the ninth. And from 
all these things that had happened the Jews were afraid, and said: Certainly 
this was a just man. And Longinus, the centurion who stood by, said: Truly this 
was a son of God. Others coming and seeing Him, beat their breasts from fear, 
and again turned back.

And the centurion having perceived all these so great miracles, went away and 
reported them to Pilate. And when he heard, he wondered and was astonished, and 
from his fear and grief would neither eat nor drink that day. And he sent 
notice, and all the Sanhedrin came to him as soon as the darkness was past; and 
he said to the people: You know how the sun has been darkened; you know how the 
curtain has been rent. Certainly I did well in being by no means willing to put 
to death the good man. And the malefactors said to Pilate: This darkness is an 
eclipse of the sun, such as has happened also at other times. Then they say to 
him: We hold the feast of unleavened bread to-morrow; and we entreat thee, since 
the crucified are still breathing, that their bones be broken, and that they be 
brought down. Pilate said: It shall be so. He therefore sent soldiers, and they 
found the two robbers yet breathing, and they broke their legs; but finding 
Jesus dead, they did not touch Him at all, except that a soldier speared Him in 
the right side, and immediately there came forth blood and water.

And as the day of the preparation
was drawing towards evening, Joseph, a man well-born and rich, a God-fearing 
Jew, finding Nicodemus, whose sentiments his foregoing speech had shown, says to 
him: I know that thou didst love Jesus when living, and didst gladly hear his 
words, and I saw thee fighting with the Jews on his account. If, then, it seem 
good to thee, let us go to Pilate, and beg the body of Jesus for burial, because 
it is a great sin for him to lie unburied. I am afraid, said Nicodemus, lest 
Pilate should be enraged, and some evil should befall me. But if thou wilt go 
alone, and beg the dead, and take him, then will I also go with thee, and help 
thee to do everything necessary for the burial. Nicodemus having thus spoken, 
Joseph directed his eyes to heaven, and prayed that he might not fail in his 
request; and he went away to Pilate, and having saluted him, sat down. Then he 
says to him: I entreat thee, my lord, not to be angry with me, if I shall ask 
anything contrary to what seems good to your highness. And he said: And what is 
it that thou askest? Joseph says: Jesus, the good man whom through hatred the 
Jews have taken away to crucify, him I entreat that thou give me for burial. 
Pilate says: And what has happened, that we should deliver to be honoured again 
the dead body of him against whom evidence of sorcery was brought by his nation, 
and who was in suspicion of taking the kingdom of Caesar, and so was given up by 
us to death? And Joseph, weeping and in great grief, fell at the feet of Pilate, 
saying: My lord, let no hatred fall upon a dead man; for all the evil that a man 
has done should perish with him in his death. And I know your highness, how 
eager thou wast that Jesus should not be crucified, and how much thou saidst to 
the Jews on his behalf, now in entreaty and again in anger, and at last how thou 
didst wash thy hands, and declare that thou wouldst by no means take part with 
those who wished him to be put to death; for all which reasons I entreat 
thee not to refuse my request. Pilate, therefore, seeing Joseph thus lying, and 
supplicating, and weeping, raised him up, and said: Go, I grant thee this dead 
man; take him, and do whatever thou wilt.
And then Joseph, having thanked Pilate, and kissed his hands and his 
garments, went forth, rejoicing indeed in heart as having obtained his desire, 
but carrying tears in his eyes. Thus also, though grieved, he was glad. 
Accordingly he goes away to Nicodemus, and discloses to him all that had 
happened. Then, having bought myrrh and aloes a hundred pounds, and a new 
tomb,
they, along with the mother of God and Mary Magdalene and Salome, along with 
John, and the rest of the women, did what was customary for the body with white 
linen, and placed it in the tomb.

And the mother of God said, weeping: How am I not to lament thee, my son? How 
should I not tear my face with my nails? This is that, my son, which Symeon the 
elder foretold to me when I brought thee, an infant of forty days old, into the 
temple. This is the sword which now goes through my soul.
Who shall put a stop to my tears, my sweetest son? No one at all except thyself 
alone, if, as thou saidst, thou shalt rise again in three days.
Mary Magdalene said, weeping: Hear, O peoples, tribes, and tongues, and learn 
to what death the lawless Jews have delivered him who did them ten thousand good 
deeds. Hear, and be astonished. Who will let these things be heard by all the 
world? I shall go alone to Rome, to the Caesar. I shall show him what evil 
Pilate hath done in obeying the lawless Jews. Likewise also, Joseph lamented, 
saying: Ah, me! sweetest Jesus, most excellent of men, if indeed it be proper to 
call thee man, who hast wrought such miracles as no man has ever done. How shall 
I enshroud thee? How shall I entomb thee? There should now have been here those 
whom thou fedst with a few loaves; for thus should I not have seemed to fail in 
what is due.
Then Joseph, along with Nicodemus, went home; and likewise also the mother of 
God, with the women, John 
also being present with them.

Chapter 12.
When the Jews were made acquainted with these things done by Joseph and 
Nicodemus, they were greatly stirred up against them. And the chief priests 
Annas and Caiaphas sent for Joseph, and said: Why hast thou done this service to 
Jesus? Joseph says: I know that Jesus was a man just, and true, and good in all 
respects; and I know also that you, through hatred, managed to murder him: and 
therefore I buried him. Then the high priests were enraged, and laid hold of 
Joseph, and threw him into prison, and said to him: If we had not to-morrow the 
feast of unleavened bread, tomorrow also should we have put thee, like him, to 
death; but being kept in the meantime, early in the morning of the Lord's 
day
thou shall be given up to death. Thus they spoke, and affixed their seal to the 
prison, having secured it by fastenings of all sorts.
Thus, therefore, when the Preparation was ended, early on the Sabbath the 
Jews went away to Pilate, and said to him: My lord, that deceiver said, that 
after three days he should rise again. Lest, therefore, his disciples should 
steal him by night, and lead the people astray by such deceit, order his tomb to 
be guarded. Pilate therefore, upon this, gave them five hundred soldiers, who 
also sat round the sepulchre so as to guard it, after having put seals upon the 
stone of the tomb. 

The Lord's day, then, having dawned, the chief priests, along with the Jews, 
called a council, and sent to take Joseph out of the prison, in order to put him 
to death. But having opened it, they found him not. And they were astonished at 
this-how, with the doors shut, and the bolts safe, and the seals unbroken, 
Joseph had disappeared.

Chapter 13
And upon this there came up one of the soldiers guarding the tomb, and he 
said in the synagogue: Learn that Jesus has risen. The Jews say: How? And he 
said: First there was an earthquake; then an angel of the Lord, clothed with 
lightning, came from heaven, and rolled the stone from the tomb, and sat upon 
it. And from fear of him, all of us soldiers became as dead, and were able 
neither to flee nor speak. And we heard the angels saying to the women who came 
there to see the tomb: Be not you afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus. He is 
not here, but is risen, as He told you before. Bend down and see the tomb where 
His body lay; but go and tell His disciples that He is risen from the dead, and 
let them go into Galilee, for there shall they find Him. For this reason I tell 
you this first.

The Jews say to the soldiers: What sort of women were they who came to the 
tomb? and why did you not lay hold of them? The soldiers say: From the fear and 
the mere sight of the angel, we were able neither to speak nor move. The Jews 
said: As the God of Israel liveth, we do not believe a word you say. The 
soldiers say: Jesus did so great wonders, and you believed not, and are you 
going to believe us? You say truly that God liveth; and certainly he whom you 
crucified truly liveth. But we have heard that you had Joseph shut up in the 
prison, and that you afterwards opened the doors, and did not find him. Do you 
then present Joseph, and so we also shall present Jesus. The Jews say: Joseph, 
that fled from the prison, you will find in Arimathaea, his own country. And the 
soldiers say: Go you too into Galilee, and you will find Jesus, as the angel 
said to the women.
At these words the Jews were afraid, and said to the soldiers: See 
that you tell this story to nobody, or all will believe in Jesus. And for this 
reason they gave them also much money. And the soldiers said: We are afraid lest 
by any chance Pilate hear that we have taken money, and he will kill us. And the 
Jews said: Take it; and we pledge ourselves that we shall speak to Pilate in 
your defence. Only say that you were asleep, and in your slumber the disciples 
of Jesus came and stole him from the tomb. The soldiers therefore took the 
money, and said as they were bid. And up to this day this same lying tale is 
told among the Jews. 


Chapter 14.
And a few days after there came from Galilee to Jerusalem three men. One of 
them was a priest, by name Phinees; the second a Levite, by name Aggai; and the 
third a soldier, by name Adas. These came to the chief priests, and said to them 
and to the people: Jesus, whom you crucified, we have seen in Galilee with his 
eleven disciples upon the Mount of Olives, teaching them, and saying, Go into 
all the world, and proclaim the good news; and whosoever will believe and be 
baptized shall be saved; but whosoever will not believe shall be condemned. And 
having thus spoken, he went up into heaven.
And both we and many others of the five hundred
besides were looking on.
And when the chief priests and the Jews heard these things, they said to 
these three: Give glory to the God of Israel, and repent of these lies that you 
have told. They answered: As the God of our fathers Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob 
liveth, we do not lie, but tell you the truth. Then the high priest spoke, and 
they brought the old covenant of the Hebrews out of the temple, and he 
made them swear, and giving them also money, he sent them into another place, in 
order that they might not proclaim in Jerusalem the resurrection of Christ.
And when these stories had been heard by all the people, the crowd came 
together into the temple, and there was a great commotion. For many said: Jesus 
has risen from the dead, as we hear, and why did you crucify him? And Annas and 
Caiaphas said: Do not believe, ye Jews, what the soldiers say; and do not 
believe that they saw an angel coming down from heaven. For we have given money 
to the soldiers, in order that they should not tell such tales to any one; and 
thus also have the disciples of Jesus given them money, in order that they 
should say that Jesus has risen from the dead.

Chapter 15.
Nicodemus says: O children of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the prophet 
Helias went up into the height of heaven with a fiery chariot, and it is nothing 
incredible if Jesus too has risen; for the prophet Helias was a prototype of 
Jesus, in order that you, hearing that Jesus has risen, might not disbelieve. I 
therefore say and advise, that it is befitting that we send soldiers into 
Galilee, to that place where these men testify, that they saw him with his 
disciples, in order that they may go round about and find him, and that thus we 
may ask pardon of him for the evil which we have done to him. This proposal 
pleased them; and they chose soldiers, and sent them away into Galilee. And 
Jesus indeed they did not find; but they found Joseph in Arimathaea.
When, therefore, the soldiers had returned, the chief priests, having 
ascertained that Joseph was found, brought the people together, and said: What 
shall we do to get Joseph to come to us? After deliberating, therefore, they 
wrote to him a letter to the following effect:-O father Joseph, peace be 
to thee and all thy house, and thy friends! We know that we have offended 
against God, and against thee His servant. On account of this, we entreat thee 
to come here to us thy children. For we bare wondered much how thou didst escape 
from the prison, and we say in truth that we had an evil design against thee. 
But God, seeing that our designs against thee were unjust, has delivered thee 
out of our hands. But come to us, for thou art the honour of our people.
This letter the Jews sent to Arimathaea, with seven soldiers, friends of 
Joseph. And they went away and found him; and having respectfully saluted him, 
as they had been ordered, they gave him the letter, And after receiving it and 
reading it, he glorified God, and embraced the soldiers; and having set a table, 
ate and drank with them during all the day and the night.
And on the following day he set out with them to Jerusalem; and the people 
came forth to meet him, and embraced him. And Nicodemus received him into his 
own house. And the day after, Annas and Caiaphas, the chief priests, having 
summoned him to the temple, said to him: Give glory to the God of Israel, and 
tell us the truth. For we know that thou didst bury Jesus; and on this account 
we laid hold of thee, and locked thee up in the prison. Thereafter, when we 
sought to bring thee out to be put to death, we did not find thee, and we were 
greatly astonished and afraid. Moreover, we prayed to God that we might find 
thee, and ask thee. Tell us therefore the truth.
Joseph said to them: In the evening of the Preparation, when you secured me 
in prison, I fell a-praying throughout the whole night, and throughout the whole 
day of the Sabbath. And at midnight I see the prison-house that four angels 
lifted it up,
holding it by the four corners. And Jesus came in like lightning, and I fell to 
the ground from fear. Taking hold of me, therefore, by the hand, he raised me, 
saying, Fear not, Joseph. Thereafter, embracing me, he kissed me, and said, Turn 
thyself, and see who I am. Turning myself, therefore, and looking, I said, My 
lord, I know not who thou art. He says, I am Jesus, whom thou didst bury the day 
before yesterday. I say to him, Show me the tomb, and then I shall believe. He 
took me, therefore, by the hand, and led me away to the tomb, which had been 
opened. And seeing the linen and the napkin, and recognising him, I said, 
Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord;
and I adored him. Then taking me by the hand, and accompanied by the angels, he 
brought me to my house in Arimathaea, and said to me, Sit here for forty days; 
for I go to my disciples, in order that I may enable them fully to proclaim my 
resurrection.

Chapter 16.
When Joseph had thus spoken, the chief priests cried out to the people: We 
know that Jesus had a father and mother; how can we believe that he is the 
Christ? One of the Levites answered and said: I know the family of Jesus, 
noble-minded men,
great servants of God, and receiving tithes from the people of the Jews. And I 
know also Symeon the eider, that he received him when he was an infant, and said 
to him: Now thou sendest away Thy servant, O Lord.
The Jews said: Let us now find the three men that saw him on the Mount of 
Olives, that we may question them, and learn the truth more accurately. They 
found them, and brought them before all, and made them swear to tell the truth. 
And they said: As the God of Israel liveth, we saw Jesus alive on the Mount of 
Olives, and going up into heaven.
Then Annas and Caiaphas took the three apart, one by one, and questioned them 
singly in private. They agreed with one another, therefore, and gave, even the 
three, one account. The chief priests answered, saying: Our Scripture says that 
every word shall be established by two or three witnesses.
Joseph, then, has confessed that he, along with Nicodemus, attended to his body, 
and buried him, and how it is the truth that he has risen.


