
Gospel of Peter












GOSPEL OF PETERFrom-The Apocryphal New TestamentM.R. 
James-Translation and NotesOxford: Clarendon Press, 1924



Introduction
The early testimonies about this book have been set forth already. The 
present fragment was discovered in 1884 in a tomb at Akhmimin Egypt. The 
manuscript in which it is a little book containing a portion of the Book of 
Enoch in Greek, this fragment on the Passion and another, a description of 
Heaven and Hell, which is either (as I now think) a second fragment of the 
Gospel, or a piece of the Apocalypse of Peter. It will be given later under that 
head.
We have seen that the Gospel of Peter is quoted by writers of the latter end 
of the second century. It has been contended that Justin Martyr also used it 
soon after the middle of that century, but the evidence is not demonstrative. I 
believe it is not safe to date the book much earlier than A. D. 150.
It uses all four canonical Gospels, and is the earliest uncanonical account 
of the Passion that exists. It is not wholly orthodox: for it throws doubt on 
the reality of the Lord's sufferings, and by consequence upon the reality of his 
human body. In other words it is, as Serapion of Antioch indicated, of a Docetic 
character.
Another characteristic of it is its extremely anti-Jewish attitude. Blame is 
thrown on the Jews wherever possible, and Pilate is white-washed .
In this case I give, in Roman and Arabic figures respectively, a double 
division into sections and verses. The first is that of Armitage Robinson, the 
second that of Harnack.


FRAGMENT I

I. 1 But of the Jews no man washed his hands, neither did Herod nor any one 
of his judges: and whereas they would not 2 wash, Pilate rose up. And then Herod 
the king commanded that the Lord should be taken into their hands, saying unto 
them: All that I commanded you to do unto him, do ye
II. 3 Now there stood there Joseph the friend of Pilate and of the Lord, and 
he, knowing that they were about to crucify him, came unto Pilate and begged the 
body of Jesus for burial. And Pilate sending unto Herod, begged his body. 5 And 
Herod said: Brother Pilate, even if none had begged for him, we should have 
buried him, since also the Sabbath dawneth; for it is written in the law that 
the sun should not set upon one that hath been slain (murdered).
III. 6 And he delivered him unto the people before the first day of (or on 
the day before the) unleavened bread, even their feast. And they having taken 
the Lord pushed him as they ran, and said: Let us hale the Son of God, now that 
7 we have gotten authority over him. And they put on him a purple robe, and made 
him sit upon the seat of judgement, 8 saying: Give righteous judgement, thou 
King of Israel. And one of them brought a crown of thorns and set it upon the 9 
Lord's head; and others stood and did spit in his eyes, and others buffeted his 
cheeks; and others did prick him with a reed, and some of them scourged him, 
saying With this honour let us honour (or at this price let us value) the son of 
God.
IV. 10 And they brought two malefactors, and crucified the 11 Lord between 
them. But he kept silence, as one feeling no pain. And when they set the cross 
upright, they wrote 12 thereon: This is the King of Israel. And they laid his 
garments before him, and divided them among themselves and 13 cast the lot upon 
them. But one of those malefactors reproached them, saying: We have thus 
suffered for the evils which we have done; but this man which hath become the 14 
saviour of men, wherein hath he injured you? And they were wroth with him, and 
commanded that his legs should not be broken, that so he might die in torment.
V. 15 Now it was noonday, and darkness prevailed over all Judaea: and they 
were troubled and in an agony lest the sun should have set, for that he yet 
lived: for it is written for them that the sun should not set upon him that hath 
been 16 slain (murdered). And one of them said: Give ye him to drink gall with 
vinegar: and they mingled it and gave him 17 to drink: and they fulfilled all 
things and accomplished 18 their sins upon their own heads. And many went about 
with 19 lamps, supposing that it was night: and some fell. And the Lord cried 
out aloud saying: My power, my power, thou hast forsaken me. And when he had so 
said, he was taken up.
20 And in the same hour was the veil of the temple of Jerusalem rent in two.
VI. 21 And then they plucked the nails from the hands of the Lord and laid 
him upon the earth: and the whole earth was shaken, and there came a great fear 
on all.
22 Then the sun shone forth, and it was found to be the ninth 23 hour. And 
the Jews rejoiced, and gave his body unto Joseph to bury it, because he had 
beheld all the good things which 24 he did. And he took the Lord and washed him 
and wrapped him in linen and brought him unto his own sepulchre, which is called 
the Garden of Joseph.
VII. 25 Then the Jews and the elders and the priests, when they perceived how 
great evil they had done themselves, began to lament and to say: Woe unto our 
sins: the judgement and the end of Jerusalem is drawn nigh.
26 But I with my fellows was in grief, and we were wounded in our minds and 
would have hid ourselves; for we were sought after by them as malefactors, and 
as thinking to set 27 the temple on fire. And beside all these things we were 
fasting, and we sat mourning and weeping night and day until the Sabbath.
VIII. 28 But the scribes and Pharisees and elders gathered one with another, 
for they had heard that all the people were murmuring and beating their breasts, 
saying: If these very great signs have come to pass at his death, behold how 29 
righteous he was. And the elders were afraid and came unto 30 Pilate, entreating 
him and saying: Give us soldiers that we (or they) may watch his sepulchre for 
three days, lest his disciples come and steal him away and the people suppose 31 
that he is risen from the dead, and do us hurt. And Pilate gave them Petronius 
the centurion with soldiers to watch the sepulchre; and the elders and scribes 
came with them unto 32 the tomb, and when they had rolled a great stone to keep 
out (al. together with) the centurion and the soldiers, then all 33 that were 
there together set it upon the door of the tomb; and plastered thereon seven 
seals; and they pitched a tent there and kept watch.
IX. 34 And early in the morning as the Sabbath dawned, there came a multitude 
from Jerusalem and the region roundabout to see the sepulchre that had been 
sealed.
35 Now in the night whereon the Lord's day dawned, as the soldiers were 
keeping guard two by two in every watch, 36 there came a great sound in the 
heaven, and they saw the heavens opened and two men descend thence, shining with 
(lit. having) a great light, and drawing near unto the sepulchre. 37 And that 
stone which had been set on the door rolled away of itself and went back to the 
side, and the sepulchre was
X. 38 opened and both of the young men entered in. When therefore those 
soldiers saw that, they waked up the centurion and the elders (for they also 
were there keeping 39 watch); and while they were yet telling them the things 
which they had seen, they saw again three men come out of the sepulchre, and two 
of them sustaining the other (lit. the 40 one), and a cross following, after 
them. And of the two they saw that their heads reached unto heaven, but of him 
that 41 was led by them that it overpassed the heavens. And they 42 heard a 
voice out of the heavens saying: Hast thou (or Thou hast) preached unto them 
that sleep? And an answer was heard from the cross, saying: Yea.
XI. 43 Those men therefore took counsel one with another to go and report 
these things unto Pilate. And while they yet thought thereabout, again the 
heavens were opened and a 45 man descended and entered into the tomb. And they 
that were with the centurion (or the centurion and they that were with him) when 
they saw that, hasted to go by night unto Pilate and left the sepulchre whereon 
they were keeping watch, and told all that they had seen, and were in great 
agony, saying: Of a truth he was the son of God.
46 Pilate answered and said: I am clear from the blood of 47 the son of God, 
but thus it seemed good unto you. Then all they came and besought him and 
exhorted him to charge the centurion and the soldiers to tell nothing of that 
they had 48 seen: For, said they, it is expedient for us to incur the greatest 
sin before God, rather than to (and not to) fall into 49 the hands of the people 
of the Jews and to be stoned. Pilate therefore charged the centurion and the 
soldiers that they should say nothing.
XII. 50 Now early on the Lord's day Mary Magdalene, a disciple (fem.) of the 
Lord-which, being afraid because of the Jews, for they were inflamed with anger, 
had not performed at the sepulchre of the Lord those things which women are 
accustomed to do unto them that die and are 51 beloved of them-took with her the 
women her friends and 52 came unto the tomb where he was laid. And they feared 
lest the Jews should see them, and said: Even if we were not able to weep and 
lament him on that day whereon he was 53 crucified, yet let us now do so at his 
tomb. But who will roll away for us the stone also that is set upon the door of 
the tomb, that we may enter in and sit beside him and perform 54 that which is 
due? for the stone was great, and we fear lest any man see us. And if we cannot 
do so, yet let us cast down at the door these things which we bring for a 
memorial of him, and we will weep and lament until we come unto our house.
XIII. 55 And they went and found the sepulchre open : and they drew near and 
looked in there, and saw there a young man sitting in the midst of the 
sepulchre, of a fair countenance and clad in very bright raiment, which said 
unto them: 56 Wherefore are ye come? whom seek ye? not him that was crucified? 
He is risen and is departed; but if ye believe it not, look in and see the place 
where he lay, that he is not here: for he is risen and is departed thither 
whence he was sent. 57 Then the women were affrighted and fled.
XV. 58 Now it was the last day of unleavened bread, and many were coming 
forth of the city and returning unto their 59 own homes because the feast was at 
an end. But we, the twelve disciples of the Lord, were weeping and were in 
sorrow, and each one being grieved for that which had befallen 60 departed unto 
his own house. But I, Simon Peter, and Andrew my brother, took our nets and went 
unto the sea: and there was with us Levi the son of Alphaeus, whom the Lord (For 
Fragment II see Apocalypse of Peter.)

