
The Holy Book of the Great Invisible Spirit











Translated by Alexander Bohlig and Frederik Wisse

        The holy book of the Egyptians about the great invisible Spirit, the Father whose name
        cannot be uttered, he who came forth from the heights of the perfection, the light of the
        light of the aeons of light, the light of the silence of the providence <and> the
        Father of the silence, the light of the word and the truth, the light of the
        incorruptions, the infinite light, the radiance from the aeons of light of the
        unrevealable, unmarked, ageless, unproclaimable Father, the aeon of the aeons, Autogenes,
        self-begotten, self-producing, alien, the really true aeon. 
Three powers came forth from him; they are the Father, the Mother, (and) the Son, from
        the living silence, what came forth from the incorruptible Father. These came forth from
        the silence of the unknown Father. 
And from that place, Domedon Doxomedon came forth, the aeon of the aeons and the light
        of each one of their powers. And thus the Son came forth fourth; the Mother fifth; the
        Father sixth. He was [...] but unheralded; it is he who is unmarked among all the powers,
        the glories, and the incorruptions. 
From that place, the three powers came forth, the three ogdoads that the Father brings
        forth in silence with his providence, from his bosom, i.e., the Father, the Mother, (and)
        the Son. 
The <first> ogdoad, because of which the thrice-male child came forth, which is
        the thought, and the word, and the incorruption, and the eternal life, the will, the mind,
        and the foreknowledge, the androgynous Father. 
The second ogdoad-power, the Mother, the virginal Barbelon, epititioch[...]ai,
        memeneaimen[...], who presides over the heaven, karb[...], the uninterpretable power, the
        ineffable Mother. She originated from herself [...]; she came forth; she agreed with the
        Father of the silent silence. 
The third ogdoad-power, the Son of the silent silence, and the crown of the silent
        silence, and the glory of the Father, and the virtue of the Mother, he brings forth from
        the bosom the seven powers of the great light of the seven voices. And the word is their
        completion. 
These are the three powers, the three ogdoads that the Father, through his providence,
        brought forth from his bosom. He brought them forth at that place. 
Domedon Doxomedon came forth, the aeon of the aeons, and the throne which is in him,
        and the powers which surround him, the glories and the incorruptions. The Father of the
        great light who came forth from the silence, he is the great Doxomedon-aeon, in which the
        thrice- male child rests. And the throne of his glory was established in it, this one on
        which his unrevealable name is inscribed, on the tablet [...] one is the word, the Father
        of the light of everything, he who came forth from the silence, while he rests in the
        silence, he whose name is in an invisible symbol. A hidden, invisible mystery came forth:
 
        IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO        
UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU 
EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE 
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA        
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
(the 7 vowels, 22 times each.)
And in this way, the three powers gave praise to the great, invisible, unnameable,
        virginal, uncallable Spirit, and his male virgin. They asked for a power. A silence of
        living silence came forth, namely glories and incorruptions in the aeons [...] aeons,
        myriads added on [...], the three males, the three male offspring, the male races ...        (IV 55, 5-7 adds: ... the glories of the Father, the glories of the great Christ, and
        the male offspring, the races ...)         ... filled the great Doxomedon-aeon with the power of the word of the whole pleroma. 
Then the thrice-male child of the great Christ, whom the great invisible Spirit had
    anointed - he whose power was called 'Ainon' - gave praise to the great invisible Spirit
    and his male virgin Yoel, and the silence of silent silence, and the greatness that [...]
    ineffable. [...] ineffable [...] unanswerable and uninterpretable, the first one who has
    come forth, and (who is) unproclaimable, [...] which is wonderful [...] ineffable [...],
    he who has all the greatnesses of greatness of the silence at that place. The thrice-male
    child brought praise, and asked for a power from the great, invisible, virginal Spirit. 
Then there appeared at that place [...], who [...], who sees glories [...] treasures in
        a [...] invisible mysteries to [...] of the silence, who is the male virgin Youel. 
Then the child of the child, Esephech, appeared. 
And thus he was completed, namely, the Father, the Mother, the Son, the five seals, the
        unconquerable power which is the great Christ of all the incorruptible ones. ... 
(1 line unrecoverable)
        ... holy [...] the end, the incorruptible [...], and [...], they are powers and glories
        and incorruptions [...]. They came forth ... 

 (5 lines unrecoverable)
        ... This one brought praise to the unrevealable, hidden mystery [...] the hidden ... 

(4 lines unrecoverable)
        ... him in the [...], and the aeons [...] thrones, [...] and each one [...] myriads of
        powers without number surround them, glories and incorruptions [...] and they [...] of the
        Father, and the Mother, and the Son, and the whole pleroma, which I mentioned before, and
        the five seals, and the mystery of mysteries. They appeared ... 
(3 lines unrecoverable)
        ... who presides over [...], and the aeons of [...] really truly [...] and the ... 
(4 lines unrecoverable)
        ... and the really truly eternal aeons. 
Then providence came forth from silence, and the living silence of the Spirit, and the
  Word of the Father, and a light. She [...] the five seals which the Father brought forth
  from his bosom, and she passed through all the aeons which I mentioned before. And she
  established thrones of glory, and myriads of angels without number who surrounded them,
  powers and incorruptible glories, who sing and give glory, all giving praise with a single
  voice, with one accord, with one never-silent voice, [...] to the Father, and the Mother,
  and the Son [...], and all the pleromas that I mentioned before, who is the great Christ,
  who is from silence, who is the incorruptible child Telmael Telmachael Eli Eli Machar
  Machar Seth, the power which really truly lives, and the male virgin who is with him,
  Youel, and Esephech, the holder of glory, the child of the child, and the crown of his
  glory, [...] of the five seals, the pleroma that I mentioned before. 
There, the great self-begotten living Word came forth, the true god, the unborn physis,
        he whose name I shall tell, saying, [...]aia[...] thaOthOsth[...], who is the son of the
        great Christ, who is the son of the ineffable silence, who came forth from the great
        invisible and incorruptible Spirit. The son of the silence and silence appeared ... 
 (1 line unrecoverable)

... invisible [...] man and the treasures of his glory. Then he appeared in the revealed
        [...]. And he established the four aeons. With a word he established them. 
He brought praise to the great, invisible, virginal Spirit, the silence of the Father,
        in a silence of the living silence of silence, the place where the man rests ... 
 (2 lines unrecoverable) 
Then there came forth at/from that place the cloud of the great light, the living
        power, the mother of the holy, incorruptible ones, the great power, the Mirothoe. And she
        gave birth to him whose name I name, saying three times,
IEN IEN EA EA EA 
For this one, Adamas, is a light which radiated from the light; he is the eye of the
  light. For this is the first man, he through whom and to whom everything came into being,
  (and) without whom nothing came into being. The unknowable, incomprehensible Father came
  forth. He came down from above for the annulment of the deficiency. 
Then the great Logos, the divine Autogenes, and the incorruptible man Adamas mingled
        with each other. A Logos of man came into being. However, the man came into being through
        a word. 
He gave praise to the great, invisible, incomprehensible, virginal Spirit, and the male
        virgin, and the thrice-male child, and the male virgin Youel, and Esephech, the holder of
        glory, the child of the child and the crown of his glory, and the great Doxomedon-aeon,
        and the thrones which are in him, and the powers which surround him, the glories and the
        incorruptions, and their whole pleroma which I mentioned before, and the ethereal earth,
        the receiver of God, where the holy men of the great light receive shape, the men of the
        Father of the silent, living silence, the Father and their whole pleroma, as I mentioned
        before. 
The great Logos, the divine Autogenes, and the incorruptible man Adamas gave praise,
        (and) they asked for a power and eternal strength for the Autogenes, for the completion of
        the four aeons, in order that, through them, there may appear [...] the glory and the
        power of the invisible Father of the holy men of the great light which will come to the
        world, which is the image of the night. The incorruptible man Adamas asked for them a son
        out of himself, in order that he (the son) may become father of the immovable,
        incorruptible race, so that, through it (the race), the silence and the voice may appear,
        and, through it, the dead aeon may raise itself, so that it may dissolve. 
And thus there came forth from above the power of the great light, the Manifestation.
        She gave birth to the four great lights: Harmozel, Oroiael, Davithe, Eleleth, and the
        great incorruptible Seth, the son of the incorruptible man Adamas. 
And thus the perfect hebdomad, which exists in hidden mysteries, became complete. When
        she receives the glory, she becomes eleven ogdoads. 
And the Father nodded approval; the whole pleroma of the lights was well pleased. Their
        consorts came forth for the completion of the ogdoad of the divine Autogenes: the Grace of
        the first light Harmozel, the Perception of the second light Oroiael, the Understanding of
        the third light Davithe, the Prudence of the fourth light Eleleth. This is the first
        ogdoad of the divine Autogenes. 
And the Father nodded approval; the whole pleroma of the lights was well pleased. The
        <ministers> came forth: the first one, the great Gamaliel (of) the first great light
        Harmozel, and the great Gabriel (of) the second great light Oroiael, and the great Samlo
        of the great light Davithe, and the great Abrasax of the great light Eleleth. And the
        consorts of these came forth by the will of the good pleasure of the Father: the Memory of
        the great one, the first, Gamaliel; the Love of the great one, the second, Gabriel; the
        Peace of the third one, the great Samblo; the eternal Life of the great one, the fourth,
        Abrasax. Thus were the five ogdoads completed, a total of forty, as an uninterpretable
        power. 
Then the great Logos, the Autogenes, and the word of the pleroma of the four lights
        gave praise to the great, invisible, uncallable, virginal Spirit, and the male virgin, and
        the great Doxomedon-aeon, and the thrones which are in them, and the powers which surround
        them, glories, authorities, and the powers, <and> the thrice-male child, and the
        male virgin Youel, and Esephech, the holder of glory, the child of the child and the crown
        of his glory, the whole pleroma, and all the glories which are there, the infinite
        pleromas <and> the unnameable aeons, in order that they may name the Father the
        fourth, with the incorruptible race, (and) that they may call the seed of the Father the
        seed of the great Seth. 
Then everything shook, and trembling took hold of the incorruptible ones. Then the
        three male children came forth from above, down into the unborn ones, and the
        self-begotten ones, and those who were begotten in what is begotten. The greatness came
        forth, the whole greatness of the great Christ. He established thrones in glory, myriads
        without number, in the four aeons around them, myriads without number, powers and glories
        and incorruptions. And they came forth in this way. 
And the incorruptible, spiritual church increased in the four lights of the great,
        living Autogenes, the god of truth, praising, singing, (and) giving glory with one voice,
        with one accord, with a mouth which does not rest, to the Father, and the Mother, and the
        Son, and their whole pleroma, just as I mentioned <before>. The five seals which
        possess the myriads, and they who rule over the aeons, and they who bear the glory of the
        leaders, were given the command to reveal to those who are worthy. Amen. 
* * * Then the great Seth, the son of the incorruptible man Adamas, gave
        praise to the great, invisible, uncallable, unnameable, virginal Spirit, and the <male
        virgin, and the thrice-male child, and the male> virgin Youel, and Esephech, the holder
        of glory and the crown of his glory, the child of the child, and the great
        Doxomedon-aeons, and the pleroma which I mentioned before; and asked for his seed. 
Then there came forth from that place the great power of the great light Plesithea, the
        mother of the angels, the mother of the lights, the glorious mother, the virgin with the
        four breasts, bringing the fruit from Gomorrah, as spring, and Sodom, which is the fruit
        of the spring of Gomorrah which is in her. She came forth through the great Seth. 
Then the great Seth rejoiced about the gift which was granted him by the incorruptible
        child. He took his seed from her with the four breasts, the virgin, and he placed it with
        him in the fourth aeon (or, in the four aeons), in the third great light Davithe. 
After five thousand years, the great light Eleleth spoke: "Let someone reign over
        the chaos and Hades." And there appeared a cloud whose name is hylic Sophia [...] She
        looked out on the parts of the chaos, her face being like [...] in her form [...] blood.
        And the great angel Gamaliel spoke to the great Gabriel, the minister of the great light
        Oroiael; he said, "Let an angel come forth, in order that he may reign over the chaos
        and Hades." Then the cloud, being agreeable, came forth in the two monads, each one
        of which had light. [...] the throne, which she had placed in the cloud above. Then Sakla,
        the great angel, saw the great demon who is with him, Nebruel. And they became together a
        begetting spirit of the earth. They begot assisting angels. Sakla said to the great demon
        Nebruel, "Let the twelve aeons come into being in the [...] aeon, worlds [...]."
        [...] the great angel Sakla said by the will of the Autogenes, "There shall be the
        [...] of the number of seven [...]." And he said to the great angels, "Go and
        let each of you reign over his world." Each one of these twelve angels went forth.
        The first angel is Athoth. He is the one whom the great generations of men call [...]. The
        second is Harmas, who is the eye of the fire. The third is Galila. The fourth is Yobel.
        The fifth is Adonaios, who is called 'Sabaoth'. The sixth is Cain, whom the great
        generations of men call the sun. The seventh is Abel; the eighth Akiressina; the ninth
        Yubel. The tenth is Harmupiael. The eleventh is Archir-Adonin. The twelfth is Belias.
        These are the ones who preside over Hades and the chaos. 
And after the founding of the world, Sakla said to his angels, "I, I am a jealous
        god, and apart from me nothing has come into being," since he trusted in his nature. 
Then a voice came from on high, saying, "The Man exists, and the Son of the
        Man." Because of the descent of the image above, which is like its voice in the
        height of the image which has looked out through the looking out of the image above, the
        first creature was formed. 
Because of this, Metanoia came into being. She received her completion and her power by
        the will of the Father, and his approval, with which he approved of the great,
        incorruptible, immovable race of the great, mighty men of the great Seth, in order that he
        may sow it in the aeons which had been brought forth, so that through her (Metanoia), the
        deficiency may be filled up. For she had come forth from above, down to the world, which
        is the image of the night. When she had come, she prayed for (the repentance of) both the
        seed of the archon of this aeon, and <the> authorities who had come forth from him,
        that defiled (seed) of the demon-begetting god which will be destroyed, and the seed of
        Adam and the great Seth, which is like the sun. 
Then the great angel Hormos came to prepare, through the virgins of the corrupted
        sowing of this aeon, in a Logos-begotten, holy vessel, through the holy Spirit, the seed
        of the great Seth. 
Then the great Seth came and brought his seed. And it was sown in the aeons which had
        been brought forth, their number being the amount of Sodom. Some say that Sodom is the
        place of pasture of the great Seth, which is Gomorrah. But others (say) that the great
        Seth took his plant out of Gomorrah and planted it in the second place, to which he gave
        the name 'Sodom'. 
This is the race which came forth through Edokla. For she gave birth through the word,
        to Truth and Justice, the origin of the seed of the eternal life, which is with those who
        will persevere, because of the knowledge of their emanation. This is the great,
        incorruptible race which has come forth through three worlds to the world. 
And the flood came as an example, for the consummation of the aeon. But it will be sent
        into the world because of this race. A conflagration will come upon the earth. And grace
        will be with those who belong to the race, through the prophets and the guardians who
        guard the life of the race. Because of this race, famines will occur, and plagues. But
        these things will happen because of the great, incorruptible race. Because of this race,
        temptations will come, a falsehood of false prophets. 
Then the great Seth saw the activity of the devil, and his many guises, and his
        schemes, which will come upon his (Seth's) incorruptible, immovable race, and the
        persecutions of his powers and his angels, and their error, that they acted against
        themselves. 
Then the great Seth gave praise to the great, uncallable, virginal Spirit, and the male
        virgin Barbelon, and the thrice-male child Telmael Telmael Heli Heli Machar Machar Seth,
        the power which really truly lives, and the male virgin Youel, and Esephech, the holder of
        glory and the crown of his glory, and the great Doxomedon-aeon, and the thrones which are
        in him, and the powers which surround them, and the whole pleroma, as I mentioned before.
        And he asked for guards over his seed. 
Then there came forth from the great aeons four hundred ethereal angels, accompanied by
        the great Aerosiel and the great Selmechel, to guard the great, incorruptible race, its
        fruit, and the great men of the great Seth, from the time and the moment of Truth and
        Justice, until the consummation of the aeon and its archons, those whom the great judges
        have condemned to death. 
Then the great Seth was sent by the four lights, by the will of the Autogenes and the
        whole pleroma, through <the gift> and the good pleasure of the great invisible
        Spirit, and the five seals, and the whole pleroma. 
He passed through the three parousias which I mentioned before: the flood, and the
        conflagration, and the judgment of the archons and the powers and the authorities, to save
        her (the race) who went astray, through the reconciliation of the world, and the baptism
        through a Logos-begotten body which the great Seth prepared for himself secretly through
        the virgin, in order that the saints may be begotten by the holy Spirit, through
        invisible, secret symbols, through a reconciliation of the world with the world, through
        the renouncing of the world, and the god of the thirteen aeons, and (through) the
        convocations of the saints and the ineffable ones, and (through) the incorruptible bosom,
        and (through) the great light of the Father, who pre-existed with his Providence, and
        established through her the holy baptism that surpasses the heaven, through the
        incorruptible, Logos-begotten one, even Jesus the living one, even he whom the great Seth
        has put on. And through him, he nailed the powers of the thirteen aeons, and established
        those who are brought forth and taken away. He armed them with an armor of knowledge of
        this truth, with an unconquerable power of incorruptibility. 
There appeared to them the great attendant Yesseus Mazareus Yessedekeus, the living
        water, and the great leaders, James the great and Theopemptos and Isaouel, and they who
        preside over the spring of truth, Micheus and Michar and Mnesinous, and he who presides
        over the baptism of the living, and the purifiers, and Sesengenpharanges, and they who
        preside over the gates of the waters, Micheus and Michar, and they who preside over the
        mountain, Seldao and Elainos, and the receivers of the great race, the incorruptible,
        mighty men <of> the great Seth, the ministers of the four lights, the great
        Gamaliel, the great Gabriel, the great Samblo, and the great Abrasax, and they who preside
        over the sun, its rising, Olses and Hypneus and Heurumaious, and they who preside over the
        entrance into the rest of eternal life, the rulers Mixanther and Michanor, and they who
        guard the souls of the elect, Akramas and Strempsouchos, and the great power Heli Heli
        Machar Machar Seth, and the great invisible, uncallable, unnameable, virginal Spirit, and
        the silence, and the (first) great light Harmozel, the place of the living Autogenes, the
        God of the truth, and <he> who is with him, the incorruptible man Adamas, the
        second, Oroiael, the place of the great Seth, and Jesus, who possesses the life, and who
        came and crucified that which is in the law, the third, Davithe, the place of the sons of
        the great Seth, the fourth, Eleleth, the place where the souls of the sons are resting,
        the fifth, Yoel, who presides over the name of him to whom it will be granted to baptize
        with the holy baptism that surpasses the heaven, the incorruptible one. 
But from now on, through the incorruptible man Poimael, and they who are worthy of
        (the) invocation, the renunciations of the five seals in the spring-baptism, these will
        know their receivers as they are instructed about them, and they will know them (or: be
        known) by them. These will by no means taste death. 
* * * 
IE IEUS EO OU EO OUA! 
Really, truly, O Yesseus Mazareus
        Yessedekeus,
 O living water, O child of the child, O glorious name!
 Really truly, 
AION O
        ON (or: O existing Aeon),
 IIII EEEE EEEE OOOO UUUU OOOO AAAA{A}. 
Really, truly, 
EI AAAA
        OOOO, O
Existing one who sees the Aeons! 
Really, truly, 
A EEEEE IIII UUUUUU OOOOOOOO,
Who
        is eternally eternal! 
Really, truly,
IEA AIO,
 In the heart, who exists,
 U AEI EIS AEI
EI O EI, EI OS EI (or: Son forever,) 
You are what you are, You are who you are! 
This great name of yours is upon me, O self-begotten Perfect one, who is not outside
    me. I see you, O you who are visible to everyone. For who will be able to comprehend you
    in another tongue? Now that I have known you, I have mixed myself with the immutable. I
    have armed myself with an armor of light; I have become light! For the Mother was at that
    place because of the splendid beauty of grace. Therefore, I have stretched out my hands
    while they were folded. I was shaped in the circle of the riches of the light which is in
    my bosom, which gives shape to the many begotten ones in the light into which no complaint
    reaches. I shall declare your glory truly, for I have comprehended you, 
SOU IES IDE AEIO OIS,
O AEON, AEON, O God of Silence!
I  honor you completely. You are my place of
    rest, O Son ES ES O E, the formless one who exists in the formless ones, who exists
    raising up the man in whom you will purify me into your life, according to your
    imperishable name. Therefore, the incense of life is in me. I mixed it with water after
    the model of all archons, in order that I may live with you in the peace of the saints,
    you who exist really truly forever. 
* * * This is the book which the great Seth wrote, and placed in high
    mountains on which the sun has not risen, nor is it possible (that it should do so). And
    since the days of the prophets and the apostles and the preachers, the name has not at all
    risen upon their hearts, nor is it possible (that it should do so). And their ear has not
    heard it. 
The great Seth wrote this book with letters in one hundred and thirty years. He placed
    it in the mountain that is called 'Charaxio,' in order that, at the end of the times and
    the eras, by the will of the divine Autogenes and the whole pleroma, through the gift of
    the untraceable, unthinkable, fatherly love, it may come forth and reveal this
    incorruptible, holy race of the great savior, and those who dwell with them in love, and
    the great, invisible, eternal Spirit, and his only-begotten Son, and the eternal light,
    and his great, incorruptible consort, and the incorruptible Sophia, and the Barbelon, and
    the whole pleroma in eternity. Amen. 
* * * The Gospel of <the> Egyptians. The God-written, holy, secret
    book. Grace, understanding, perception, (and) prudence (be) with him who has written it -
    Eugnostos the beloved, in the Spirit - in the flesh, my name is Gongessos - and my fellow
    lights in incorruptibility. Jesus Christ, Son of God, Savior, Ichthus. God-written (is)
    the holy book of the great, invisible Spirit. Amen. 
This translation was made by Alexander Bohlig and Frederik Wisse, excerpted from The Nag Hammadi Library in English edited by James M. Robinson, and transcribed for online publication originally at the Gnostic Society Library (gnosis.org).
