
The Epistle to the Hebrews












The Letter to the Hebrews 

1:1God, having in the past spoken to the 
fathers through the prophets at many times and in various ways, 1:2has 
at the end of these days spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed heir of all 
things, through whom also he made the worlds. 1:3His Son is the 
radiance of his glory, the very image of his substance, and upholding all things 
by the word of his power, when he had by himself made purification for our sins, 
sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high; 1:4having become so 
much better than the angels, as he has inherited a more excellent name than they 
have. 1:5For to which of the angels did he say at 
any time, 
 "You are my Son,      Today have I 
become your father?" 
and again, 
 "I will be to him a Father,      And 
he will be to me a Son?" 
1:6Again, when he brings in the firstborn 
into the world he says, "Let all the angels of God worship him." 1:7Of 
the angels he says, 
 "Who makes his angels winds,      And 
his servants a flame of fire." 
1:8but of the Son he says, 
 "Your throne, O God, is forever and 
ever;      The scepter of uprightness is the 
scepter of your Kingdom. 
 1:9You have loved righteousness, and hated 
iniquity;      Therefore God, your God, has 
anointed you with the oil of gladness above your fellows." 
1:10And, 
 "You, Lord, in the beginning, laid the foundation of the 
earth.      The heavens are the works of your 
hands. 
 1:11They will perish, but you 
continue.      They all will grow old like a 
garment does. 
 1:12As a mantle you will roll them 
up,      And they will be changed; 
 But you are the same.      Your years 
will not fail." 
1:13But of which of the angels has he said 
at any time, 
 "Sit at my right hand,      Until I 
make your enemies the footstool of your feet?" 
1:14Aren't they all ministering spirits, 
sent out to do service for the sake of those who will inherit salvation? 
2:1Therefore we ought to pay greater 
attention to the things that were heard, lest perhaps we drift away. 2:2For 
if the word spoken through angels proved steadfast, and every transgression and 
disobedience received a just recompense; 2:3how will we escape if we neglect so 
great a salvation-- which at the first having been spoken through the Lord, was 
confirmed to us by those who heard; 2:4God also bearing witness with them, both 
by signs and wonders, and by various works of power, and by gifts of the Holy 
Spirit, according to his own will? 2:5For he didn't subject the world to come, 
of which we speak, to angels. 2:6But one has somewhere testified, saying, 

 "What is man, that you think of 
him?      Or the son of man, that you care for 
him? 
 2:7You made him a little lower than the 
angels;      You crowned him with glory and 
honor.*      2:8You 
have put all things in subjection under his feet." 
For in that he subjected all things to him, he left nothing that is not 
subject to him. But now we don't see all things subjected to him, yet. 2:9But 
we see him who has been made a little lower than the angels, Jesus, because of 
the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor, that by the grace of God he 
should taste of death for everyone. 2:10For it became him, for whom are all 
things, and through whom are all things, in bringing many children to glory, to 
make the author of their salvation perfect through sufferings. 2:11For both he who sanctifies and those 
who are sanctified are all from one, for which cause he is not ashamed to call 
them brothers, 2:12saying, 
 "I will declare your name to my 
brothers.      In the midst of the 
congregation I will sing your praise." 
2:13Again, "I will put my trust in him." 
Again, "Behold, here am I and the children whom God has given me." 2:14Since then the children have shared in 
flesh and blood, he also himself in like manner partook of the same, that 
through death he might bring to nothing him who had the power of death, that is, 
the devil, 2:15and might deliver all of them who 
through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. 2:16For most assuredly, not to angels does 
he give help, but he gives help to the seed of Abraham. 2:17Therefore he was 
obligated in all things to be made like his brothers, that he might become a 
merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make atonement 
for the sins of the people. 2:18For in that he himself has suffered 
being tempted, he is able to help those who are tempted. 
3:1Therefore, holy brothers, partakers of a 
heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession, Jesus; 
3:2who was faithful to him who appointed 
him, as also was Moses in all his house. 3:3For he has been counted worthy of more 
glory than Moses, inasmuch as he who built the house has more honor than the 
house. 3:4For every house is built by someone; but 
he who built all things is God. 3:5Moses indeed was faithful in all his 
house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were afterward to be 
spoken, 3:6but Christ is faithful as a Son over his 
house; whose house we are, if we hold fast our confidence and the glorying of 
our hope firm to the end. 3:7Therefore, even as the Holy Spirit says, 

 "Today if you will hear his voice, 
 3:8Don't harden your hearts, as in the 
provocation,      Like as in the day of the 
trial in the wilderness, 
 3:9Where your fathers tested me by proving 
me,      And saw my works for forty years. 
 3:10Therefore I was displeased with that 
generation,      And said, 'They always err in 
their heart,      But they didn't know my 
ways;' 
 3:11As I swore in my 
wrath,      'They will not enter into my 
rest.'" 
3:12Beware, brothers, lest perhaps there be 
in any one of you an evil heart of unbelief, in falling away from the living 
God; 3:13but exhort one another day by day, so 
long as it is called "today;" lest any one of you be hardened by the 
deceitfulness of sin. 3:14For we have become partakers of Christ, 
if we hold fast the beginning of our confidence firm to the end: 3:15while it is said, 
 "Today if you will hear his 
voice,      Don't harden your hearts, as in 
the rebellion." 
3:16For who, when they heard, rebelled? No, 
didn't all those who came out of Egypt by Moses? 3:17With whom was he 
displeased forty years? Wasn't it with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in 
the wilderness? 3:18To whom did he swear that they wouldn't 
enter into his rest, but to those who were disobedient? 3:19We see that they 
were not able to enter in because of unbelief. 
4:1Let us fear therefore, lest perhaps a 
promise being left of entering into his rest, anyone of you should seem to have 
come short of it. 4:2For indeed we have had good news 
preached to us, even as they also did, but the word they heard didn't profit 
them, because it wasn't mixed with faith by those who heard. 4:3For we who have 
believed do enter into that rest, even as he has said, "As I swore in my wrath, 
they will not enter into my rest;" although the works were finished from the 
foundation of the world. 4:4For he has said this somewhere about the 
seventh day, "God rested on the seventh day from all his works;" 4:5and 
in this place again, "They will not enter into my rest." 
4:6Seeing therefore it remains that some 
should enter therein, and they to whom the good news was before preached failed 
to enter in because of disobedience, 4:7he again defines a certain day, today, 
saying through David so long a time afterward (just as has been said), 
 "Today if you will hear his 
voice,      Don't harden your hearts." 
4:8For if Joshua had given them rest, he 
would not have spoken afterward of another day. 4:9There remains 
therefore a Sabbath rest for the people of God. 4:10For he who has 
entered into his rest has himself also rested from his works, as God did from 
his. 4:11Let us therefore give diligence to 
enter into that rest, lest anyone fall after the same example of disobedience. 
4:12For the word of God is living, and 
active, and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing even to the dividing 
of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and is able to discern the 
thoughts and intentions of the heart. 
4:13There is no creature that is hidden 
from his sight, but all things are naked and laid open before the eyes of him 
with whom we have to do. 4:14Having then a great high priest, who 
has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold tightly to 
our confession. 4:15For we don't have a high priest who 
can't be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but one who has been in 
all points tempted like we are, yet without sin. 4:16Let us therefore 
draw near with boldness to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and 
may find grace for help in time of need. 
5:1For every high priest, being taken from 
among men, is appointed for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer 
both gifts and sacrifices for sins. 5:2The high priest can deal gently with 
those who are ignorant and going astray, because he himself is also surrounded 
with weakness. 5:3Because of this, he must offer 
sacrifices for sins for the people, as well as for himself. 5:4Nobody takes this 
honor on himself, but he is called by God, just like Aaron was. 5:5So 
also Christ didn't glorify himself to be made a high priest, but it was he who 
said to him, 
 "You are my Son.      Today I have 
become your father." 
5:6As he says also in another place, 
 "You are a priest forever,      After 
the order of Melchizedek." 
5:7He, in the days of his flesh, having 
offered up prayers and petitions with strong crying and tears to him who was 
able to save him from death, and having been heard for his godly fear, 5:8though he was a Son, yet learned 
obedience by the things which he suffered. 5:9Having been made 
perfect, he became to all of those who obey him the author of eternal salvation, 
5:10named by God a high priest after the 
order of Melchizedek. 5:11About him we have many words to say, 
and hard to interpret, seeing you have become dull of hearing. 5:12For when by reason of the time you 
ought to be teachers, you again need to have someone teach you the rudiments of 
the first principles of the oracles of God. You have come to need milk, and not 
solid food. 5:13For everyone who lives on milk is not 
experienced in the word of righteousness, for he is a baby. 5:14But solid food is 
for those who are full grown, who by reason of use have their senses exercised 
to discern good and evil. 
6:1Therefore leaving the doctrine of the 
first principles of Christ, let us press on to perfection--not laying again a 
foundation of repentance from dead works, of faith toward God, 6:2of 
the teaching of baptisms, of laying on of hands, of resurrection of the dead, 
and of eternal judgment. 6:3This will we do, if God permits. 6:4For 
concerning those who were once enlightened and tasted of the heavenly gift, and 
were made partakers of the Holy Spirit, 6:5and tasted the good word of God, and the 
powers of the age to come, 6:6and then fell away, it is impossible to 
renew them again to repentance; seeing they crucify the Son of God for 
themselves again, and put him to open shame. 6:7For the land which 
has drunk the rain that comes often on it, and brings forth a crop suitable for 
them for whose sake it is also tilled, receives blessing from God; 6:8but 
if it bears thorns and thistles, it is rejected and near being cursed, whose end 
is to be burned. 
6:9But, beloved, we are persuaded of better 
things for you, and things that accompany salvation, even though we speak like 
this. 6:10For God is not unrighteous, so as to 
forget your work and the labor of love which you showed toward his name, in that 
you served the saints, and still do serve them. 6:11We desire that each 
one of you may show the same diligence to the fullness of hope even to the end, 
6:12that you won't be sluggish, but 
imitators of those who through faith and patience inherited the promises. 6:13For when God made a promise to Abraham, 
since he could swear by none greater, he swore by himself, 6:14saying, "Most 
surely I will bless you, and I will surely multiply you." 6:15Thus, having 
patiently endured, he obtained the promise. 6:16For men indeed 
swear by a greater one, and in every dispute of theirs the oath is final for 
confirmation. 6:17In this way God, being determined to 
show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the immutability of his 
counsel, interposed with an oath; 6:18that by two immutable things, in which 
it is impossible for God to lie, we may have a strong encouragement, who have 
fled for refuge to take hold of the hope set before us. 6:19This hope we have 
as an anchor of the soul, a hope both sure and steadfast and entering into that 
which is within the veil; 6:20where as a forerunner Jesus entered for 
us, having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. 
7:1For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, 
priest of God Most High, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the 
kings and blessed him, 7:2to whom also Abraham divided a tenth 
part of all (being first, by interpretation, king of righteousness, and then 
also king of Salem, which is king of peace; 7:3without father, 
without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of 
life, but made like the Son of God), remains a priest continually. 7:4Now 
consider how great this man was, to whom even Abraham, the patriarch, gave a 
tenth out of the best spoils. 7:5They indeed of the sons of Levi who 
receive the priest's office have a commandment to take tithes of the people 
according to the law, that is, of their brothers, though these have come out of 
the loins of Abraham, 7:6but he whose genealogy is not counted 
from them has taken tithes of Abraham, and has blessed him who has the promises. 
7:7But without any dispute the less is 
blessed by the better. 7:8Here people who die receive tithes, but 
there one receives tithes of whom it is testified that he lives. 7:9So 
to say, through Abraham even Levi, who receives tithes, has paid tithes, 7:10for he was yet in the loins of his 
father when Melchizedek met him. 7:11Now if there was perfection through the 
Levitical priesthood (for under it the people have received the law), what 
further need was there for another priest to arise after the order of 
Melchizedek, and not be called after the order of Aaron? 7:12For the priesthood 
being changed, there is of necessity a change made also in the law. 7:13For he of whom these things are said 
belongs to another tribe, from which no one has officiated at the altar. 7:14For it is evident that our Lord has 
sprung out of Judah, about which tribe Moses spoke nothing concerning 
priesthood. 7:15This is yet more abundantly evident, if 
after the likeness of Melchizedek there arises another priest, 7:16who has been made, not after the law of 
a fleshly commandment, but after the power of an endless life: 7:17for it is testified, 
 "You are a priest 
forever,      According to the order of 
Melchizedek." 
7:18For there is an annulling of a 
foregoing commandment because of its weakness and uselessness 7:19(for the law made nothing perfect), and 
a bringing in thereupon of a better hope, through which we draw near to God. 7:20Inasmuch as he was not made priest 
without the taking of an oath 7:21(for they indeed have been made priests 
without an oath), but he with an oath by him that says of him, 
 "The Lord swore and will not change his 
mind,      'You are a priest 
forever,      According to the order of 
Melchizedek'". 
7:22By so much has Jesus become the 
collateral of a better covenant. 7:23Many, indeed, have been made priests, 
because they are hindered from continuing by death. 7:24But he, because he 
lives forever, has his priesthood unchangeable. 7:25Therefore he is 
also able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him, 
seeing he ever lives to make intercession for them. 
7:26For such a high priest was fitting for 
us: holy, guiltless, undefiled, separated from sinners, and made higher than the 
heavens; 7:27who doesn't need, like those high 
priests, to daily offer up sacrifices, first for his own sins, and then for the 
sins of the people. For this he did once for all, when he offered up himself. 7:28For the law appoints men as high 
priests who have weakness, but the word of the oath which came after the law 
appoints a Son forever who has been perfected. 
8:1Now in the things which we are saying, 
the main point is this. We have such a high priest, who sat down on the right 
hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens, 8:2a minister of the 
sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, not man. 8:3For 
every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices. Therefore it 
is necessary that this high priest also have something to offer. 8:4For 
if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, seeing there are priests 
who offer the gifts according to the law; 8:5who serve a copy and shadow of the 
heavenly things, even as Moses was warned by God when he was about to make the 
tabernacle, for he said, "See, you shall make everything according to the 
pattern that was shown to you on the mountain." 8:6But now he has 
obtained a more excellent ministry, by so much as he is also the mediator of a 
better covenant, which has been enacted on better promises. 8:7For if that first 
covenant had been faultless, then no place would have been sought for a second. 
8:8For finding fault with them, he said, 
 "Behold, the days come," says the 
Lord,      "That I will make a new covenant 
with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah; 
 8:9Not according to the covenant that I 
made with their fathers,      In the day that 
I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; 
 For they didn't continue in my 
covenant,      And I disregarded them," says 
the Lord. 
 8:10"For this is the covenant that I will 
make with the house of Israel.      After 
those days," says the Lord; 
 "I will put my laws into their 
mind,      I will also write them on their 
heart. 
 I will be to them a God,      And 
they will be to me a people. 
 8:11They will not teach every man his fellow 
citizen,      Every man his brother, 
saying, 'Know the Lord,'      For all will 
know me,      From the least of them to the 
greatest of them. 
 8:12For I will be merciful to their 
unrighteousness.      I will remember their 
sins and lawless deeds no more." 
8:13In that he says, "A new covenant," he 
has made the first old. But that which is becoming old and grows aged is near to 
vanishing away. 
9:1Now indeed even the first* 
covenant had ordinances of divine service, and an earthly sanctuary. 9:2For 
there was a tabernacle prepared. In the first part were the lampstand, the 
table, and the show bread; which is called the Holy Place. 9:3After the second 
veil was the tabernacle which is called the Holy of Holies, 9:4having a golden 
altar of incense, and the ark of the covenant overlaid on all sides with gold, 
in which was a golden pot holding the manna, Aaron's rod that budded, and the 
tables of the covenant; 9:5and above it cherubim of glory 
overshadowing the mercy seat, of which things we can't now speak in detail. 9:6Now 
these things having been thus prepared, the priests go in continually into the 
first tabernacle, accomplishing the services, 9:7but into the second 
the high priest alone, once in the year, not without blood, which he offers for 
himself, and for the errors of the people. 9:8The Holy Spirit is 
indicating this, that the way into the Holy Place wasn't yet revealed while the 
first tabernacle was still standing; 9:9which is a symbol of the present age, 
where gifts and sacrifices are offered that are incapable, concerning the 
conscience, of making the worshipper perfect; 9:10being only (with 
meats and drinks and various washings) fleshly ordinances, imposed until a time 
of reformation. 
9:11But Christ having come as a high priest 
of the coming good things, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not 
made with hands, that is to say, not of this creation, 9:12nor yet through the 
blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood, entered in once for all 
into the Holy Place, having obtained eternal redemption. 9:13For if the blood of 
goats and bulls, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling those who have been 
defiled, sanctify to the cleanness of the flesh: 9:14how much more will 
the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without 
blemish to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? 
9:15For this reason he is the mediator of a 
new covenant, since a death has occurred for the redemption of the 
transgressions that were under the first covenant, that those who have been 
called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance. 9:16For where a last 
will and testament is, there must of necessity be the death of him who made it. 
9:17For a will is in force where there has 
been death, for it is never in force while he who made it lives. 9:18Therefore even the first covenant has 
not been dedicated without blood. 9:19For when every commandment had been 
spoken by Moses to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of the 
calves and the goats, with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both 
the book itself and all the people, 9:20saying, "This is the blood of the 
covenant which God has commanded you." 
9:21Moreover he sprinkled the tabernacle 
and all the vessels of the ministry in like manner with the blood. 9:22According to the law, nearly everything 
is cleansed with blood, and apart from shedding of blood there is no remission. 
9:23It was necessary therefore that the 
copies of the things in the heavens should be cleansed with these; but the 
heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. 9:24For Christ hasn't entered into holy 
places made with hands, which are representations of the true, but into heaven 
itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us; 9:25nor yet that he 
should offer himself often, as the high priest enters into the holy place year 
by year with blood not his own, 9:26or else he must have suffered often 
since the foundation of the world. But now once at the end of the ages, he has 
been revealed to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. 9:27Inasmuch as it is 
appointed for men to die once, and after this, judgment, 9:28so Christ also, 
having been once offered to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, 
without sin, to those who are eagerly waiting for him for salvation. 
10:1For the law, having a shadow of the 
good to come, not the very image of the things, can never with the same 
sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, make perfect those who 
draw near. 10:2Or else wouldn't they have ceased to be 
offered, because the worshippers, having been once cleansed, would have had no 
more consciousness of sins? 10:3But in those sacrifices there is yearly 
reminder of sins. 10:4For it is impossible that the blood of 
bulls and goats should take away sins. 10:5Therefore when he comes into the world, 
he says, 
 "Sacrifice and offering you didn't 
desire,      But a body did you prepare for 
me; 
 10:6In whole burnt offerings and sacrifices 
for sin you had no pleasure.      10:7Then I said, 'Behold, I have come (In 
the scroll of the book it is written of 
me)      To do your will, God.'" 
10:8Previously saying, "Sacrifices and 
offerings and whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin you didn't desire, 
neither had pleasure in them" (those which are offered according to the law), 10:9then he has said, "Behold, I have come 
to do your will." He takes away the first, that he may establish the second, 10:10by which will we have been sanctified 
through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. 10:11Every priest indeed stands day by day 
ministering and often offering the same sacrifices, which can never take away 
sins, 10:12but he, when he had offered one 
sacrifice for sins for ever, sat down on the right hand of God; 10:13from that time waiting until his 
enemies are made the footstool of his feet. 10:14For by one 
offering he has perfected forever those who are being sanctified. 10:15The Holy Spirit also testifies to us, 
for after saying, 
 10:16"This is the covenant that I will make 
with them:      'After those days,' says the 
Lord, 
 'I will put my laws on their 
heart,      I will also write them on their 
mind;'" 
then he says, 
 10:17"I will remember their sins and their 
iniquities no more." 
10:18Now where remission of these is, there 
is no more offering for sin. 10:19Having therefore, brothers, boldness 
to enter into the holy place by the blood of Jesus, 10:20by the way which 
he dedicated for us, a new and living way, through the veil, that is to say, his 
flesh; 10:21and having a great priest over the 
house of God, 10:22let's draw near with a true heart in 
fullness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and 
having our body washed with pure water, 10:23let us hold fast the confession of our 
hope unyieldingly. For he who promised is faithful. 
10:24Let us consider how to provoke one 
another to love and good works, 10:25not forsaking our own assembling 
together, as the custom of some is, but exhorting one another; and so much the 
more, as you see the Day approaching. 10:26For if we sin willfully after we have 
received the knowledge of the truth, there remains no more a sacrifice for sins, 
10:27but a certain fearful expectation of 
judgment, and a fierceness of fire which will devour the adversaries. 10:28A man who disregards Moses' law dies 
without compassion on the word of two or three witnesses. 10:29How much worse 
punishment, do you think, will he be judged worthy of, who has trodden under 
foot the Son of God, and has counted the blood of the covenant with which he was 
sanctified an unholy thing, and has insulted the Spirit of grace? 10:30For we know him who said, "Vengeance 
belongs to me," says the Lord, "I will repay." Again, "The Lord will judge his 
people." 10:31It is a fearful thing to fall into the 
hands of the living God. 10:32But remember the former days, in 
which, after you were enlightened, you endured a great struggle with sufferings; 
10:33partly, being exposed to both 
reproaches and oppressions; and partly, becoming partakers with those who were 
treated so. 10:34For you both had compassion on me in 
my chains, and joyfully accepted the plundering of your possessions, knowing 
that you have for yourselves a better possession and an enduring one in the 
heavens. 10:35Therefore don't throw away your 
boldness, which has a great reward. 10:36For you need endurance so that, having 
done the will of God, you may receive the promise. 
 10:37"In a very little 
while,      He who comes will come, and will 
not wait. 
 10:38But the righteous will live by 
faith.      If he shrinks back, my soul has no 
pleasure in him." 
10:39But we are not of those who shrink 
back to destruction, but of those who have faith to the saving of the soul. 
11:1Now faith is assurance of things hoped 
for, proof of things not seen. 11:2For by this, the elders obtained 
testimony. 11:3By faith, we understand that the 
universe has been framed by the word of God, so that what is seen has not been 
made out of things which are visible. 11:4By faith, Abel offered to God a more 
excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he had testimony given to him that 
he was righteous, God bearing witness with respect to his gifts; and through it 
he, being dead, still speaks. 11:5By faith, Enoch was taken away, so that 
he wouldn't see death, and he was not found, because God translated him. For he 
has had testimony given to him that before his translation he had been well 
pleasing to God. 11:6Without faith it is impossible to be 
well pleasing to him, for he who comes to God must believe that he exists, and 
that he is a rewarder of those who seek him. 11:7By faith, Noah, 
being warned about things not yet seen, moved with godly fear, prepared an ark 
for the saving of his house, through which he condemned the world, and became 
heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. 11:8By faith, Abraham, 
when he was called, obeyed to go out to the place which he was to receive for an 
inheritance. He went out, not knowing where he went. 11:9By faith, he lived 
as an alien in the land of promise, as in a land not his own, dwelling in tents, 
with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. 11:10For he looked for the city which has 
the foundations, whose builder and maker is God. 11:11By faith, even 
Sarah herself received power to conceive, and she bore a child when she was past 
age, since she counted him faithful who had promised. 11:12Therefore as many 
as the stars of the sky in multitude, and as innumerable as the sand which is by 
the sea shore, were fathered by one man, and him as good as dead. 11:13These all died in faith, not having 
received the promises, but having seen* 
them and embraced them from afar, and having confessed that they were strangers 
and pilgrims on the earth. 11:14For those who say such things make it 
clear that they are seeking after a country of their own. 11:15If indeed they had 
been thinking of that country from which they went out, they would have had 
enough time to return. 11:16But now they desire a better country, 
that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called 
their God, for he has prepared a city for them. 
11:17By faith, Abraham, being tested, 
offered up Isaac. Yes, he who had gladly received the promises was offering up 
his one and only son; 11:18even he to whom it was said, "In Isaac 
will your seed be called;" 11:19accounting that God is able to raise 
up even from the dead. Figuratively speaking, he also did receive him back from 
the dead. 11:20By faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and 
Esau, even concerning things to come. 11:21By faith, Jacob, when he was dying, 
blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshiped, leaning on the top of his 
staff. 11:22By faith, Joseph, when his end was 
near, made mention of the departure of the children of Israel; and gave 
instructions concerning his bones. 11:23By faith, Moses, when he was born, was 
hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw that he was a beautiful 
child, and they were not afraid of the king's commandment. 11:24By faith, Moses, 
when he had grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, 11:25choosing rather to share ill treatment 
with God's people, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a time; 11:26accounting the reproach of Christ 
greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he looked to the reward. 11:27By faith, he left Egypt, not fearing 
the wrath of the king; for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible. 11:28By faith, he kept the Passover, and 
the sprinkling of the blood, that the destroyer of the firstborn should not 
touch them. 11:29By faith, they passed through the Red 
sea as on dry land. When the Egyptians tried to do so, they were swallowed up. 
11:30By faith, the walls of Jericho fell 
down, after they had been encircled for seven days. 11:31By faith, Rahab 
the prostitute, didn't perish with those who were disobedient, having received 
the spies in peace. 11:32What more shall I say? For the time 
would fail me if I told of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel, and 
the prophets; 11:33who, through faith subdued kingdoms, 
worked out righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, 11:34quenched the power of fire, escaped 
the edge of the sword, from weakness were made strong, grew mighty in war, and 
turned to flight armies of aliens. 11:35Women received their dead by 
resurrection. Others were tortured, not accepting their deliverance, that they 
might obtain a better resurrection. 11:36Others were tried by mocking and 
scourging, yes, moreover by bonds and imprisonment. 11:37They were stoned. 
They were sawn apart. They were tempted. They were slain with the sword. They 
went around in sheep skins and in goat skins; being destitute, afflicted, 
ill-treated 11:38(of whom the world was not worthy), 
wandering in deserts, mountains, caves, and the holes of the earth. 11:39These all, having had testimony given 
to them through their faith, didn't receive the promise, 11:40God having 
provided some better thing concerning us, so that apart from us they should not 
be made perfect. 
12:1Therefore let us also, seeing we are 
surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, lay aside every weight and the sin 
which so easily entangles us, and let us run with patience the race that is set 
before us, 12:2looking to Jesus, the author and 
perfecter of faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, 
despising shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. 12:3For consider him who has endured such 
contradiction of sinners against himself, that you don't grow weary, fainting in 
your souls. 12:4You have not yet resisted to blood, 
striving against sin; 12:5and you have forgotten the exhortation 
which reasons with you as with children, 
 "My son, don't take lightly the chastening of the 
Lord,      Nor faint when you are reproved by 
him; 
 12:6For whom the Lord loves, he 
chastens,      And scourges every son whom he 
receives." 
12:7It is for discipline that you endure. 
God deals with you as with children, for what son is there whom his father 
doesn't discipline? 12:8But if you are without discipline, of 
which all have been made partakers, then are you illegitimate, and not children. 
12:9Furthermore, we had the fathers of our 
flesh to chasten us, and we paid them respect. Shall we not much rather be in 
subjection to the Father of spirits, and live? 12:10For they indeed, 
for a few days, punished us as seemed good to them; but he for our profit, that 
we may be partakers of his holiness. 12:11All chastening seems for the present 
to be not joyous but grievous; yet afterward it yields the peaceful fruit of 
righteousness to those who have been exercised thereby. 12:12Therefore, lift up 
the hands that hang down and the feeble knees, 12:13and make straight 
paths for your feet, so that which is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be 
healed. 12:14Follow after peace with all men, and 
the sanctification without which no man will see the Lord, 12:15looking carefully 
lest there be any man who falls short of the grace of God; lest any root of 
bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby the many be defiled; 12:16lest there be any sexually immoral 
person, or profane person, as Esau, who sold his birthright for one meal. 12:17For you know that even when he 
afterward desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no 
place for a change of mind though he sought it diligently with tears. 12:18For you have not come to a mountain 
that might be touched, and that burned with fire, and to blackness, darkness, 
tempest, 12:19the sound of a trumpet, and the voice 
of words; which those who heard it begged that not one more word should be 
spoken to them, 12:20for they could not stand that which 
was commanded, "If even an animal touches the mountain, it shall be stoned*;" 
12:21and so fearful was the appearance, 
that Moses said, "I am terrified and trembling." 
12:22But you have come to Mount Zion, and 
to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable hosts 
of angels, 12:23to the general assembly and assembly 
of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, to God the Judge of all, to the 
spirits of just men made perfect, 12:24to Jesus, the mediator of a new 
covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better than that of Abel. 
12:25See that you don't refuse him who 
speaks. For if they didn't escape when they refused him who warned on the Earth, 
how much more will we not escape who turn away from him who warns from heaven, 
12:26whose voice shook the earth, then, but 
now he has promised, saying, "Yet once more I will shake not only the earth, but 
also the heavens." 12:27This phrase, "Yet once more," 
signifies the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that have 
been made, that those things which are not shaken may remain. 12:28Therefore, receiving a Kingdom that 
can't be shaken, let us have grace, through which we serve God acceptably, with 
reverence and awe, 12:29for our God is a consuming fire. 
13:1Let brotherly love continue. 13:2Don't forget to show hospitality to 
strangers, for in doing so, some have entertained angels without knowing it. 13:3Remember those who are in bonds, as 
bound with them; and those who are ill-treated, since you are also in the body. 
13:4Let marriage be held in honor among 
all, and let the bed be undefiled: but God will judge the sexually immoral and 
adulterers. 
13:5Be free from the love of money, content 
with such things as you have, for he has said, "I will in no way leave you, 
neither will I in any way forsake you." 13:6So that with good courage we say, 
 "The Lord is my helper. I will not 
fear.      What can man do to me?" 
13:7Remember your leaders, men who spoke to 
you the word of God, and considering the results of their conduct, imitate their 
faith. 13:8Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, 
today, and forever. 13:9Don't be carried away by various and 
strange teachings, for it is good that the heart be established by grace, not by 
food, through which those who were so occupied were not benefited. 
13:10We have an altar from which those who 
serve the holy tabernacle have no right to eat. 13:11For the bodies of 
those animals, whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest as 
an offering for sin, are burned outside of the camp. 13:12Therefore Jesus 
also, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered outside 
of the gate. 13:13Let us therefore go forth to him 
outside of the camp, bearing his reproach. 13:14For we don't have 
here an enduring city, but we seek that which is to come. 13:15Through him, then, 
let us offer up a sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of 
lips which make confession to his name. 13:16But don't forget to be doing good and 
sharing, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. 
13:17Obey your leaders and submit to them, 
for they watch on behalf of your souls, as those who will give account, that 
they may do this with joy, and not with groaning, for that would be unprofitable 
for you. 
13:18Pray for us, for we are persuaded that 
we have a good conscience, desiring to live honorably in all things. 13:19I strongly urge you to do this, that I 
may be restored to you sooner. 
13:20Now may the God of peace, who brought 
again from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep with the blood of an eternal 
covenant, our Lord Jesus, 13:21make you complete in every good work 
to do his will, working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight, through 
Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen. 
13:22But I exhort you, brothers, endure the 
word of exhortation, for I have written to you in few words. 13:23Know that our brother Timothy has been 
freed, with whom, if he comes shortly, I will see you. 13:24Greet all of your 
leaders and all the saints. The Italians greet you. 13:25Grace be with you 
all. Amen. 




Notes:
[1] back to 2:7 TR adds 
"and set him over the works of your hands"
[2] back to 2:11 The 
word for "brothers" here and where context allows may also be correctly 
translated "brothers and sisters" or "siblings."
[3] back to 8:11 TR 
reads "neighbor" instead of "fellow citizen"
[4] back to 9:1 TR adds 
"tabernacle"
[5] back to 11:13 TR 
adds "and being convinced of"
[6] back to 12:20 TR 
adds "or shot with an arrow" [see Exodus 19:12-13] 

