
The Epistle to the Hebrews












Hebrews. The Epistle to the Hebrews

1:1God, having of old time spoken unto the 
fathers in the prophets by divers portions and in divers manners, 1:2hath 
at the end of these days spoken unto us in his Son, whom he appointed 
heir of all things, through whom also he made the worlds; 1:3who being the 
effulgence of his glory, and the very image of his substance, and upholding all 
things by the word of his power, when he had made purification of sins, sat down 
on the right hand of the Majesty on high; 1:4having become by so much better than the 
angels, as he hath inherited a more excellent name than they. 1:5For unto which of 
the angels said he at any time, 
 Thou art my Son, 
 This day have I begotten thee? 
and again, 
 I will be to him a Father, 
 And he shall be to me a Son? 
1:6And when he again bringeth in the 
firstborn into the world he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him. 1:7And 
of the angels he saith, 
 Who maketh his angels winds, 
 And his ministers a flame a fire: 
1:8but of the Son he saith,
 Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever; 
 And the sceptre of uprightness is the sceptre of thy kingdom. 
 1:9Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated 
iniquity; 
 Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee 
 With the oil of gladness above thy fellows. 
1:10And, 
 Thou, Lord, in the beginning didst lay the foundation of the earth, 
 And the heavens are the works of thy hands: 
 1:11They shall perish; but thou continuest: 

 And they all shall wax old as doth a garment; 
 1:12And as a mantle shalt thou roll them 
up, 
 As a garment, and they shall be changed: 
 But thou art the same, 
 And thy years shall not fail. 
1:13But of which of the angels hath he said 
at any time, 
 Sit thou on my right hand, 
 Till I make thine enemies the footstool of thy feet? 
1:14Are they not all ministering spirits, 
sent forth to do service for the sake of them that shall inherit salvation? 

2:1Therefore we ought to give the more 
earnest heed to the things that were heard, lest haply we drift away from 
them. 2:2For if the word spoken through angels 
proved stedfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just 
recompense of reward; 2:3how shall we escape, if we neglect so 
great a salvation? which having at the first been spoken through the Lord, was 
confirmed unto us by them that heard; 2:4God also bearing witness with them, both 
by signs and wonders, and by manifold powers, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit, 
according to his own will. 2:5For not unto angels did he subject the 
world to come, whereof we speak. 2:6But one hath somewhere testified, 
saying, 
 What is man, that thou art mindful of him? 
 Or the son of man, that thou visitest him? 
 2:7Thou madest him a little lower than the 
angels; 
 Thou crownedst him with glory and honor, 
 And didst set him over the works of thy hands: 
 2:8Thou didst put all things in subjection 
under his feet. 
For in that he subjected all things unto him, he left nothing that is not 
subject to him. But now we see not yet all things subjected to him. 2:9But 
we behold him who hath been made a little lower than the angels, even 
Jesus, because of the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor, that by 
the grace of God he should taste of death for every man. 2:10For it became him, for whom are all 
things, and through whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to 
make the author of their salvation perfect through sufferings. 2:11For both he that sanctifieth and they 
that are sanctified are all of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call 
them brethren, 2:12saying, 
 I will declare thy name unto my brethren, 
 In the midst of the congregation will I sing thy praise. 
2:13And again, I will put my trust in him. 
And again, Behold, I and the children whom God hath given me. 2:14Since then the children are sharers in 
flesh and blood, he also himself in like manner partook of the same; that 
through death he might bring to nought him that had the power of death, that is, 
the devil; 2:15and might deliver all them who through 
fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. 2:16For verily not to 
angels doth he give help, but he giveth help to the seed of Abraham. 2:17Wherefore it behooved him in all things 
to be made like unto his brethren, that he might become a merciful and faithful 
high priest in things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sins of 
the people. 2:18For in that he himself hath suffered 
being tempted, he is able to succor them that are tempted. 

3:1Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of a 
heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession, 
even Jesus; 3:2who was faithful to him that appointed 
him, as also was Moses in all his house. 3:3For he hath been counted worthy of more 
glory than Moses, by so much as he that built the house hath more honor than the 
house. 3:4For every house is builded by some one; 
but he that built all things is God. 3:5And Moses indeed was faithful in all his 
house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were afterward to be 
spoken; 3:6but Christ as a son, over his house; 
whose house are we, if we hold fast our boldness and the glorying of our hope 
firm unto the end. 3:7Wherefore, even as the Holy Spirit 
saith, 
 To-day if ye shall hear his voice, 
 3:8Harden not your hearts, as in the 
provocation, 
 Like as in the day of the trial in the wilderness, 
 3:9Where your fathers tried me by 
proving me,
 And saw my works forty years. 
 3:10Wherefore I was displeased with this 
generation, 
 And said, They do always err in their heart: 
 But they did not know my ways; 
 3:11As I sware in my wrath, 
 They shall not enter into my rest. 
3:12Take heed, brethren, lest haply there 
shall be in any one of you an evil heart of unbelief, in falling away from the 
living God: 3:13but exhort one another day by day, so 
long as it is called To-day; lest any one of you be hardened by the 
deceitfulness of sin: 3:14for we are become partakers of Christ, 
if we hold fast the beginning of our confidence firm unto the end: 3:15while it is said, 
 To-day if ye shall hear his voice, 
 Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation. 
3:16For who, when they heard, did provoke? 
nay, did not all they that came out of Egypt by Moses? 3:17And with whom was 
he displeased forty years? was it not with them that sinned, whose bodies fell 
in the wilderness? 3:18And to whom sware he that they should 
not enter into his rest, but to them that were disobedient? 3:19And we see that 
they were not able to enter in because of unbelief. 


4:1Let us fear therefore, lest haply, a 
promise being left of entering into his rest, any one of you should seem to have 
come short of it. 4:2For indeed we have had good tidings 
preached unto us, even as also they: but the word of hearing did not profit 
them, because it was not united by faith with them that heard. 4:3For 
we who have believed do enter into that rest; even as he hath said, 
 As I sware in my wrath, 
 They shall not enter into my rest: 
although the works were finished from the foundation of the world. 4:4For 
he hath said somewhere of the seventh day on this wise, And God rested on 
the seventh day from all his works; 4:5and in this place again, 
 They shall not enter into my rest. 
4:6Seeing therefore it remaineth that some 
should enter thereinto, and they to whom the good tidings were before preached 
failed to enter in because of disobedience, 4:7he again defineth a 
certain day, To-day, saying in David so long a time afterward (even as hath been 
said before), 
 To-day if ye shall hear his voice, 
 Harden not your hearts. 
4:8For if Joshua had given them rest, he 
would not have spoken afterward of another day. 4:9There remaineth 
therefore a sabbath rest for the people of God. 4:10For he that is 
entered into his rest hath himself also rested from his works, as God did from 
his. 4:11Let us therefore give diligence to 
enter into that rest, that no man fall after the same example of disobedience. 
4:12For the word of God is living, and 
active, and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing even to the dividing 
of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and quick to discern the thoughts 
and intents of the heart. 4:13And there is no creature that is not 
manifest in his sight: but all things are naked and laid open before the eyes of 
him with whom we have to do. 4:14Having then a great high priest, who 
hath passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our 
confession. 4:15For we have not a high priest that 
cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but one that hath been in 
all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. 4:16Let us therefore 
draw near with boldness unto the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and 
may find grace to help us in time of need. 


5:1For every high priest, being taken from 
among men, is appointed for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer 
both gifts and sacrifices for sins: 5:2who can bear gently with the ignorant 
and erring, for that he himself also is compassed with infirmity; 5:3and 
by reason thereof is bound, as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for 
sins. 5:4And no man taketh the honor unto 
himself, but when he is called of God, even as was Aaron. 5:5So Christ also 
glorified not himself to be made a high priest, but he that spake unto him, 
 Thou art my Son, 
 This day have I begotten thee: 
5:6as he saith also in another 
place,
 Thou art a priest for ever 
 After the order of Melchizedek. 
5:7Who in the days of his flesh, having 
offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that 
was able to save him from death, and having been heard for his godly fear, 5:8though he was a Son, yet learned 
obedience by the things which he suffered; 5:9and having been made 
perfect, he became unto all them that obey him the author of eternal salvation; 
5:10named of God a high priest after the 
order of Melchizedek. 5:11Of whom we have many things to say, and 
hard of interpretation, seeing ye are become dull of hearing. 5:12For when by reason of the time ye ought 
to be teachers, ye have need again that some one teach you the rudiments of the 
first principles of the oracles of God; and are become such as have need of 
milk, and not of solid food. 5:13For every one that partaketh of milk is 
without experience of the word of righteousness; for he is a babe. 5:14But solid food is for fullgrown men, 
even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern 
good and evil. 

6:1Wherefore leaving the doctrine of the 
first principles of Christ, let us press on unto perfection; not laying again a 
foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God, 6:2of 
the teaching of baptisms, and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the 
dead, and of eternal judgment. 6:3And this will we do, if God permit. 6:4For 
as touching those who were once enlightened and tasted of the heavenly gift, and 
were made partakers of the Holy Spirit, 6:5and tasted the good word of God, and the 
powers of the age to come, 6:6and then fell away, it is 
impossible to renew them again unto repentance; seeing they crucify to 
themselves the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame. 6:7For 
the land which hath drunk the rain that cometh oft upon it, and bringeth forth 
herbs meet for them for whose sake it is also tilled, receiveth blessing from 
God: 6:8but if it beareth thorns and thistles, 
it is rejected and nigh unto a curse; whose end is to be burned. 6:9But, 
beloved, we are persuaded better things of you, and things that accompany 
salvation, though we thus speak: 6:10for God is not unrighteous to forget 
your work and the love which ye showed toward his name, in that ye ministered 
unto the saints, and still do minister. 6:11And we desire that each one of you may 
show the same diligence unto the fulness of hope even to the end: 6:12that ye be not sluggish, but imitators 
of them who through faith and patience inherit the promises. 6:13For when God made 
promise to Abraham, since he could swear by none greater, he sware by himself, 
6:14saying, Surely blessing I will bless 
thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee. 6:15And thus, having 
patiently endured, he obtained the promise. 6:16For men swear by 
the greater: and in every dispute of theirs the oath is final for confirmation. 
6:17Wherein God, being minded to show more 
abundantly unto the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, 
interposed with an oath; 6:18that by two immutable things, in which 
it is impossible for God to lie, we may have a strong encouragement, who have 
fled for refuge to lay hold of the hope set before us: 6:19which we have as an 
anchor of the soul, a hope both sure and stedfast and entering into that 
which is within the veil; 6:20whither as a forerunner Jesus entered 
for us, having become a high priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek. 

7:1For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, 
priest of God Most High, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the 
kings and blessed him, 7:2to whom also Abraham divided a tenth 
part of all (being first, by interpretation, King of righteousness, and then 
also King of Salem, which is King of peace; 7:3without father, 
without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of 
life, but made like unto the Son of God), abideth a priest continually. 7:4Now 
consider how great this man was, unto whom Abraham, the patriarch, gave a tenth 
out of the chief spoils. 7:5And they indeed of the sons of Levi that 
receive the priest's office have commandment to take tithes of the people 
according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though these have come out of 
the loins of Abraham: 7:6but he whose genealogy is not counted 
from them hath taken tithes of Abraham, and hath blessed him that hath the 
promises. 7:7But without any dispute the less is 
blessed of the better. 7:8And here men that die receive tithes; 
but there one, of whom it is witnessed that he liveth. 7:9And, so to say, 
through Abraham even Levi, who receiveth tithes, hath paid tithes; 7:10for he was yet in the loins of his 
father, when Melchizedek met him. 7:11Now if there was perfection through the 
Levitical priesthood (for under it hath the people received the law), what 
further need was there that another priest should arise after the order 
of Melchizedek, and not be reckoned after the order of Aaron? 7:12For the priesthood being changed, there 
is made of necessity a change also of the law. 7:13For he of whom 
these things are said belongeth to another tribe, from which no man hath given 
attendance at the altar. 7:14For it is evident that our Lord hath 
sprung out of Judah; as to which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priests. 
7:15And what we say is yet more 
abundantly evident, if after the likeness of Melchizedek there ariseth another 
priest, 7:16who hath been made, not after the law 
of a carnal commandment, but after the power of an endless life: 7:17for it is witnessed of him,
 Thou art a priest for ever 
 After the order of Melchizedek. 
7:18For there is a disannulling of a 
foregoing commandment because of its weakness and unprofitableness 7:19(for the law made nothing perfect), and 
a bringing in thereupon of a better hope, through which we draw nigh unto God. 
7:20And inasmuch as it is not 
without the taking of an oath 7:21(for they indeed have been made priests 
without an oath; but he with an oath by him that saith of him, 
 The Lord sware and will not repent himself, 
 Thou art a priest for ever); 
7:22by so much also hath Jesus become the 
surety of a better covenant. 7:23And they indeed have been made priests 
many in number, because that by death they are hindered from continuing: 7:24but he, because he abideth for ever, 
hath his priesthood unchangeable. 7:25Wherefore also he is able to save to 
the uttermost them that draw near unto God through him, seeing he ever liveth to 
make intercession for them. 7:26For such a high priest became us, holy, 
guileless, undefiled, separated from sinners, and made higher than the heavens; 
7:27who needeth not daily, like those high 
priests, to offer up sacrifices, first for his own sins, and then for the 
sins of the people: for this he did once for all, when he offered up 
himself. 7:28For the law appointeth men high 
priests, having infirmity; but the word of the oath, which was after the law, 
appointeth a Son, perfected for evermore. 

8:1Now in the things which we are saying 
the chief point is this: We have such a high priest, who sat down on the 
right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens, 8:2a minister of the 
sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, not man. 8:3For 
every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it 
is necessary that this high priest also have somewhat to offer. 8:4Now 
if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, seeing there are those who 
offer the gifts according to the law; 8:5who serve that which is a copy 
and shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses is warned of God when he 
is about to make the tabernacle: for, See, saith he, that thou make all things 
according to the pattern that was showed thee in the mount. 8:6But now hath he 
obtained a ministry the more excellent, by so much as he is also the mediator of 
a better covenant, which hath been enacted upon better promises. 8:7For 
if that first covenant had been faultless, then would no place have been 
sought for a second. 8:8For finding fault with them, he saith, 
 Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, 
 That I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the 
house of Judah; 
 8:9Not according to the covenant that I 
made with their fathers 
 In the day that I took them by the hand to lead them forth out of the 
land of Egypt; 
 For they continued not in my covenant, 
 And I regarded them not, saith the Lord. 
 8:10For this is the covenant that I will 
make with the house of Israel 
 After those days, saith the Lord; 
 I will put my laws into their mind, 
 And on their heart also will I write them: 
 And I will be to them a God, 
 And they shall be to me a people: 
 8:11And they shall not teach every man his 
fellow-citizen, 
 And every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord: 
 For all shall know me, 
 From the least to the greatest of them. 
 8:12For I will be merciful to their 
iniquities, 
 And their sins will I remember no more. 
8:13In that he saith, A new covenant 
he hath made the first old. But that which is becoming old and waxeth aged is 
nigh unto vanishing away. 

9:1Now even a first covenant had 
ordinances of divine service, and its sanctuary, a sanctuary of this 
world. 9:2For there was a tabernacle prepared, the 
first, wherein were the candlestick, and the table, and the showbread; 
which is called the Holy place. 9:3And after the second veil, the 
tabernacle which is called the Holy of holies; 9:4having a golden 
altar of incense, and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, 
wherein was a golden pot holding the manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, 
and the tables of the covenant; 9:5and above it cherubim of glory 
overshadowing the mercy-seat; of which things we cannot now speak severally. 9:6Now 
these things having been thus prepared, the priests go in continually into the 
first tabernacle, accomplishing the services; 9:7but into the second 
the high priest alone, once in the year, not without blood, which he offereth 
for himself, and for the errors of the people: 9:8the Holy Spirit this 
signifying, that the way into the holy place hath not yet been made manifest, 
while the first tabernacle is yet standing; 9:9which is a 
figure for the time present; according to which are offered both gifts and 
sacrifices that cannot, as touching the conscience, make the worshipper perfect, 
9:10being only (with meats and 
drinks and divers washings) carnal ordinances, imposed until a time of 
reformation. 9:11But Christ having come a high priest of 
the good things to come, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not 
made with hands, that is to say, not of this creation, 9:12nor yet through the 
blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood, entered in once for all 
into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption. 9:13For if the blood of 
goats and bulls, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling them that have been 
defiled, sanctify unto the cleanness of the flesh: 9:14how much more shall 
the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without 
blemish unto God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living 
God? 9:15And for this cause he is the mediator 
of a new covenant, that a death having taken place for the redemption of the 
transgressions that were under the first covenant, they that have been called 
may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance. 9:16For where a 
testament is, there must of necessity be the death of him that made it. 9:17For a testament is of force where there 
hath been death: for it doth never avail while he that made it liveth. 9:18Wherefore even the first 
covenant hath not been dedicated without blood. 9:19For when every 
commandment had been spoken by Moses unto all the people according to the law, 
he took the blood of the calves and the goats, with water and scarlet wool and 
hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people, 9:20saying, This is the blood of the 
covenant which God commanded to you-ward. 9:21Moreover the 
tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry he sprinkled in like manner with 
the blood. 9:22And according to the law, I may almost 
say, all things are cleansed with blood, and apart from shedding of blood there 
is no remission. 9:23It was necessary therefore that the 
copies of the things in the heavens should be cleansed with these; but the 
heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these. 9:24For Christ entered not into a holy 
place made with hands, like in pattern to the true; but into heaven itself, now 
to appear before the face of God for us: 9:25nor yet that he should offer himself 
often, as the high priest entereth into the holy place year by year with blood 
not his own; 9:26else must he often have suffered since 
the foundation of the world: but now once at the end of the ages hath he been 
manifested to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. 9:27And inasmuch as it 
is appointed unto men once to die, and after this cometh judgment; 9:28so 
Christ also, having been once offered to bear the sins of many, shall appear a 
second time, apart from sin, to them that wait for him, unto salvation. 

10:1For the law having a shadow of the good 
things to come, not the very image of the things, can never with the same 
sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, make perfect them that 
draw nigh. 10:2Else would they not have ceased to be 
offered? because the worshippers, having been once cleansed, would have had no 
more consciousness of sins. 10:3But in those sacrifices there is 
a remembrance made of sins year by year. 10:4For it is impossible that the blood of 
bulls and goats should take away sins. 10:5Wherefore when he cometh into the 
world, he saith, 
 Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, 
 But a body didst thou prepare for me; 
 10:6In whole burnt offerings and 
sacrifices for sin thou hadst no pleasure: 
 10:7Then said I, Lo, I am come (In the roll 
of the book it is written of me) 
 To do thy will, O God. 
10:8Saying above, Sacrifices and offerings 
and whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin thou wouldest not, 
neither hadst pleasure therein (the which are offered according to the law), 10:9then hath he said, Lo, I am come to do 
thy will. He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second. 10:10By which will we have been sanctified 
through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. 10:11And every priest indeed standeth day 
by day ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, the which can 
never take away sins: 10:12but he, when he had offered one 
sacrifice for sins for ever, sat down on the right hand of God; 10:13henceforth expecting till his enemies 
be made the footstool of his feet. 10:14For by one offering he hath perfected 
for ever them that are sanctified. 10:15And the Holy Spirit also beareth 
witness to us; for after he hath said, 
 10:16This is the covenant that I will make 
with them 
 After those days, saith the Lord: 
 I will put my laws on their heart, 
 And upon their mind also will I write them; 
then saith he,
 10:17And their sins and their iniquities 
will I remember no more. 
10:18Now where remission of these is, there 
is no more offering for sin. 10:19Having therefore, brethren, boldness 
to enter into the holy place by the blood of Jesus, 10:20by the way which 
he dedicated for us, a new and living way, through the veil, that is to say, his 
flesh; 10:21and having a great priest over 
the house of God; 10:22let us draw near with a true heart in 
fulness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience: and 
having our body washed with pure water, 10:23let us hold fast the confession of our 
hope that it waver not; for he is faithful that promised: 10:24and let us 
consider one another to provoke unto love and good works; 10:25not forsaking our 
own assembling together, as the custom of some is, but exhorting one 
another; and so much the more, as ye see the day drawing nigh. 10:26For if we sin wilfully after that we 
have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more a sacrifice 
for sins, 10:27but a certain fearful expectation of 
judgment, and a fierceness of fire which shall devour the adversaries. 10:28A man that hath set at nought Moses 
law dieth without compassion on the word of two or three witnesses: 10:29of how much sorer punishment, think 
ye, shall he be judged worthy, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and 
hath counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified an unholy 
thing, and hath done despite unto the Spirit of grace? 10:30For we know him 
that said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense. And again, The Lord 
shall judge his people. 10:31It is a fearful thing to fall into the 
hands of the living God. 10:32But call to remembrance the former 
days, in which, after ye were enlightened, ye endured a great conflict of 
sufferings; 10:33partly, being made a gazingstock both 
by reproaches and afflictions; and partly, becoming partakers with them that 
were so used. 10:34For ye both had compassion on them 
that were in bonds, and took joyfully the spoiling of you possessions, knowing 
that ye have for yourselves a better possession and an abiding one. 10:35Cast not away therefore your boldness, 
which hath great recompense of reward. 10:36For ye have need of patience, that, 
having done the will of God, ye may receive the promise. 
 10:37For yet a very little while, 
 He that cometh shall come, and shall not tarry. 
 10:38But my righteous one shall live by 
faith: 
 And if he shrink back, my soul hath no pleasure in him. 
10:39But we are not of them that shrink 
back unto perdition; but of them that have faith unto the saving of the soul. 

11:1Now faith is assurance of things 
hoped for, a conviction of things not seen. 11:2For therein the 
elders had witness borne to them. 11:3By faith we understand that the worlds 
have been framed by the word of God, so that what is seen hath not been made out 
of things which appear. 11:4By faith Abel offered unto God a more 
excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he had witness borne to him that he 
was righteous, God bearing witness in respect of his gifts: and through it he 
being dead yet speaketh. 11:5By faith Enoch was translated that he 
should not see death; and he was not found, because God translated him: for he 
hath had witness borne to him that before his translation he had been 
well-pleasing unto God: 11:6And without faith it is impossible to 
be well-pleasing unto him; for he that cometh to God must believe that he 
is, and that he is a rewarder of them that seek after him. 11:7By 
faith Noah, being warned of God concerning things not seen as yet, moved 
with godly fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house; through which he 
condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is according to 
faith. 11:8By faith Abraham, when he was called, 
obeyed to go out unto a place which he was to receive for an inheritance; and he 
went out, not knowing whither he went. 11:9By faith he became a sojourner in the 
land of promise, as in a land not his own, dwelling in tents, with Isaac 
and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise: 11:10for he looked for 
the city which hath the foundations, whose builder and maker is God. 11:11By faith even Sarah herself received 
power to conceive seed when she was past age, since she counted him faithful who 
had promised: 11:12wherefore also there sprang of one, 
and him as good as dead, so many as the stars of heaven in multitude, and 
as the sand, which is by the sea-shore, innumerable. 11:13These all died in 
faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them and greeted them 
from afar, and having confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the 
earth. 11:14For they that say such things make it 
manifest that they are seeking after a country of their own. 11:15And if indeed they had been mindful of 
that country from which they went out, they would have had opportunity to 
return. 11:16But now they desire a better 
country, that is, a heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed of them, to be 
called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city. 11:17By faith Abraham, 
being tried, offered up Isaac: yea, he that had gladly received the promises was 
offering up his only begotten son; 11:18even he to whom it 
was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called: 11:19accounting that 
God is able to raise up, even from the dead; from whence he did also in a 
figure receive him back. 11:20By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, 
even concerning things to come. 11:21By faith Jacob, when he was dying, 
blessed each of the sons of Joseph; and worshipped, leaning upon the top 
of his staff. 11:22By faith Joseph, when his end was 
nigh, made mention of the departure of the children of Israel; and gave 
commandment concerning his bones. 11:23By faith Moses, when he was born, was 
hid three months by his parents, because they saw he was a goodly child; and 
they were not afraid of the king's commandment. 11:24By faith Moses, 
when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter; 11:25choosing rather to share ill treatment 
with the people of God, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season; 11:26accounting the reproach of Christ 
greater riches than the treasures of Egypt: for he looked unto the recompense of 
reward. 11:27By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing 
the wrath of the king: for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible. 11:28By faith he kept the passover, and the 
sprinkling of the blood, that the destroyer of the firstborn should not touch 
them. 11:29By faith they passed through the Red 
sea as by dry land: which the Egyptians assaying to do were swallowed up. 11:30By faith the walls of Jericho fell 
down, after they had been compassed about for seven days. 11:31By faith Rahab the 
harlot perished not with them that were disobedient, having received the spies 
with peace. 11:32And what shall I more say? for the 
time will fail me if I tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah; of David and 
Samuel and the prophets: 11:33who through faith subdued kingdoms, 
wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, 11:34quenched the power of fire, escaped 
the edge of the sword, from weakness were made strong, waxed mighty in war, 
turned to flight armies of aliens. 11:35Women received their dead by a 
resurrection: and others were tortured, not accepting their deliverance; that 
they might obtain a better resurrection: 11:36and others had 
trial of mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover of bonds and imprisonment: 11:37they were stoned, they were sawn 
asunder, they were tempted, they were slain with the sword: they went about in 
sheepskins, in goatskins; being destitute, afflicted, ill-treated 11:38(of whom the world was not worthy), 
wandering in deserts and mountains and caves, and the holes of the earth. 11:39And these all, having had witness 
borne to them through their faith, received not the promise, 11:40God having provided some better thing 
concerning us, that apart from us they should not be made perfect. 

12:1Therefore let us also, seeing we are 
compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, lay aside every weight, and 
the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race 
that is set before us, 12:2looking unto Jesus the author and 
perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured 
the cross, despising shame, and hath sat down at the right hand of the throne of 
God. 12:3For consider him that hath endured such 
gainsaying of sinners against himself, that ye wax not weary, fainting in your 
souls. 12:4Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, 
striving against sin: 12:5and ye have forgotten the exhortation 
which reasoneth with you as with sons, 
 My son, regard not lightly the chastening of the Lord, 
 Nor faint when thou art reproved of him; 
 12:6For whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth, 

 And scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. 
12:7It is for chastening that ye endure; 
God dealeth with you as with sons; for what son is there whom his father 
chasteneth not? 12:8But if ye are without chastening, 
whereof all have been made partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons. 12:9Furthermore, we had the fathers of our 
flesh to chasten us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in 
subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live? 12:10For they indeed 
for a few days chastened us as seemed good to them; but he for our 
profit, that we may be partakers of his holiness. 12:11All chastening 
seemeth for the present to be not joyous but grievous; yet afterward it yieldeth 
peaceable fruit unto them that have been exercised thereby, even the 
fruit of righteousness. 12:12Wherefore lift up the hands that hang 
down, and the palsied knees; 12:13and make straight paths for your feet, 
that that which is lame be not turned out of the way, but rather be healed. 12:14Follow after peace with all men, and 
the sanctification without which no man shall see the Lord: 12:15looking carefully 
lest there be any man that falleth short of the grace of God; lest any 
root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby the many be 
defiled; 12:16lest there be any fornication, 
or profane person, as Esau, who for one mess of meat sold his own birthright. 12:17For ye know that even when he 
afterward desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no 
place for a change of mind in his father, though he sought is diligently 
with tears. 12:18For ye are not come unto a 
mount that might be touched, and that burned with fire, and unto blackness, 
and darkness, and tempest, 12:19and the sound of a trumpet, and the 
voice of words; which voice they that heard entreated that no word more 
should be spoken unto them; 12:20for they could not endure that which 
was enjoined, If even a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned; 12:21and so fearful was the appearance, 
that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake: 12:22but ye are come 
unto mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, 
and to innumerable hosts of angels, 12:23to the general assembly and church of 
the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to 
the spirits of just men made perfect, 12:24and to Jesus the mediator of a new 
covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better than that 
of Abel. 12:25See that ye refuse not him that 
speaketh. For if they escaped not when they refused him that warned them 
on earth, much more shall not we escape who turn away from him 
that warneth from heaven: 12:26whose voice then shook the earth: but 
now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more will I make to tremble not the earth 
only, but also the heaven. 12:27And this word, Yet once more, 
signifieth the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that have 
been made, that those things which are not shaken may remain. 12:28Wherefore, receiving a kingdom that 
cannot be shaken, let us have grace, whereby we may offer service well-pleasing 
to God with reverence and awe: 12:29for our God is a consuming fire. 

13:1Let love of the brethren continue. 13:2Forget not to show love unto strangers: 
for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. 13:3Remember them that 
are in bonds, as bound with them; them that are illtreated, as being yourselves 
also in the body. 13:4Let marriage be had in 
honor among all, and let the bed be undefiled: for fornicators and 
adulterers God will judge. 13:5Be ye free from the love of money; 
content with such things as ye have: for himself hath said, I will in no wise 
fail thee, neither will I in any wise forsake thee. 13:6So that with good 
courage we say, 
 The Lord is my helper; I will not fear: 
 What shall man do unto me? 
13:7Remember them that had the rule over 
you, men that spake unto you the word of God; and considering the issue of their 
life, imitate their faith. 13:8Jesus Christ is the same 
yesterday and to-day, yea and for ever. 13:9Be not carried away 
by divers and strange teachings: for it is good that the heart be established by 
grace; not by meats, wherein they that occupied themselves were not profited. 13:10We have an altar, whereof they have no 
right to eat that serve the tabernacle. 13:11For the bodies of those beasts whose 
blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest as an offering 
for sin, are burned without the camp. 13:12Wherefore Jesus also, that he might 
sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered without the gate. 13:13Let us therefore go forth unto him 
without the camp, bearing his reproach. 13:14For we have not here an abiding city, 
but we seek after the city which is to come. 13:15Through him then 
let us offer up a sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of 
lips which make confession to his name. 13:16But to do good and to communicate 
forget not: for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. 13:17Obey them that 
have the rule over you, and submit to them: for they watch in behalf of 
your souls, as they that shall give account; that they may do this with joy, and 
not with grief: for this were unprofitable for you. 13:18Pray for us: for 
we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, desiring to live honorably in 
all things. 13:19And I exhort you the more 
exceedingly to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner. 13:20Now the God of peace, who brought 
again from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep with the blood of an eternal 
covenant, even our Lord Jesus, 13:21make you perfect in every good thing 
to do his will, working in us that which is well-pleasing in his sight, through 
Jesus Christ; to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen. 13:22But I exhort you, brethren, bear with 
the word of exhortation, for I have written unto you in few words. 13:23Know ye that our brother Timothy hath 
been set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see you. 13:24Salute all them that have the rule 
over you, and all the saints. They of Italy salute you. 13:25Grace be with you 
all. Amen. 

