
Hegesippus












Hegesippus. 

Fragments from His Five 
Books of Commentaries on the Acts of the Church.
------------

[a.d. 170.] One of the sub-Apostolic age, a contemporary of Justin and of 
  the martyrs of "the good Aurelius," we must yet distinguish Hegesippus 
  from the apologists. He is the earliest of the Church's chroniclers-we can 
  hardly call him a historian. His aims were noble and his character was pure; 
  nor can we refuse him the credit due to a foresight of the Church's ultimate 
  want of historical material, which he endeavoured to supply.
What is commonly regarded as his defect is in reality one of his greatest 
merits as a witness: he was a Hebrew, and looks at the Church from the 
stand-point of "James the Lord's brother." When we observe his Catholic spirit, 
therefore, as well as his Catholic orthodoxy; his sympathy with the Gentile 
Church and Pauline faith of the Corinthians; his abhorrence of "the 
Circumcision" so far as it bred sects and heresies against Christ; and when we 
find him confirming the testimony of the Apostolic Fathers, and sustaining the 
traditions of Antioch by those of Jerusalem,-we have double reason to cherish 
his name, and to treasure up "the fragments that remain" of his works. That 
touching episode of the kindred of Christ, as they appeared before Domitian, has 
always impressed my imagination as worthy to be classed with the story of St. 
John and the robber, as one of the most suggestive incidents of early Christian 
history. We must lament the loss of other portions of the Memoirs which were 
known to exist in the seventeenth century. He was a traveller, and must have 
seen much of the Apostolic churches in the East and West; and the mere scraps we 
have of his narrative concerning Corinth and Rome excite a natural curiosity as 
to the rest, which may lead to gratifying discoveries.
I.

Concerning the martyrdom of James, the brother of the Lord, from Book 
  V.

James, the Lord's brother, succeeds to the government of the Church, in 
conjunction with the apostles. He has been universally called the Just, 
from the days of the Lord down to the present time. For many bore the name of 
James; but this one was holy from his mother's womb. He drank no wine or 
other intoxicating liquor,
nor did he eat flesh; no razor came upon his head; he did not anoint himself 
with oil, nor make use of the bath. He alone was permitted to enter the holy 
place:
for he did not wear any woollen garment, but fine linen only. He alone, 
I say, was wont to go into the temple: and he used to be found kneeling 
on his knees, begging forgiveness for the people-so that the skin of his knees 
became horny like that of a camel's, by reason of his constantly bending the 
knee in adoration to God, and begging forgiveness for the people. Therefore, in 
consequence of his pre-eminent justice, he was called the Just, and 
Oblias,
which signifies in Greek Defence of the People, and Justice, in 
accordance with what the prophets declare concerning him.
Now some persons belonging to the seven sects existing among the people, 
which have been before described by me in the Notes, asked him: "What is the 
door of Jesus? " And he replied that He was the Saviour. In Consequence of this 
answer, some believed that Jesus is the Christ. But the sects before mentioned 
did not believe, either in a resurrection or in the coming of One to requite 
every man according to his works; but those who did believe, believed because of 
James. So, when many even of the ruling class believed, there was a commotion 
among the Jews, and scribes, and Pharisees, who said: "A little more, and we 
shall have all the people looking for Jesus as the Christ.
They came, therefore, in a body to James, and said: "We entreat thee, 
restrain the people: for they are gone astray in their opinions about Jesus, as 
if he were the Christ. We entreat thee to persuade all who have come hither for 
the day of the passover, concerning Jesus. For we all listen to thy persuasion; 
since we, as well as all the people, bear thee testimony that thou art just, and 
showest partiality to none. Do thou, therefore, persuade the people not to 
entertain erroneous opinions concerning Jesus: for all the people, and we also, 
listen to thy persuasion. Take thy stand, then, upon the summit
of the temple, that from that elevated spot thou mayest be clearly seen, and thy 
words may be plainly audible to all the people. For, in order to attend the 
passover, all the tribes have congregated hither, and some of the 
Gentiles also."
The aforesaid scribes and Pharisees accordingly set James on the summit of 
the temple, and cried aloud to him, and said: "O just one, whom we are all bound 
to obey, forasmuch as the people is in error, and follows Jesus the crucified, 
do thou tell us what is the door of Jesus, the crucified." And he answered with 
a loud voice: "Why ask ye me concerning Jesus the Son of man? He Himself sitteth 
in heaven, at the right hand of the Great Power, and shall come on the clouds of 
heaven."
And, when many were fully convinced by these words, and offered praise 
for the testimony of James, and said, "Hosanna to the son of David," then again 
the said Pharisees and scribes said to one another, "We have not done well in 
procuring this testimony to Jesus. But let us go up and throw him down, that 
they may be afraid, and not believe him." And they cried aloud, and said: "Oh! 
oh! the just man himself is in error." Thus they fulfilled the Scripture written 
in Isaiah: "Let us away with the just man, because he is troublesome to us: 
therefore shall they eat the fruit of their doings." So they went up and threw 
down the just man, and said to one another: "Let us stone James the Just." And 
they began to stone him: for he was not killed by the fall; but he turned, and 
kneeled down, and said: "I beseech Thee, Lord God our Father, forgive them; for 
they know not what they do."
And, while they were thus stoning him to death, one of the priests, the sons 
of Rechab, the son of Rechabim, to whom testimony is borne by Jeremiah the 
prophet, began to cry aloud, saying: "Cease, what do ye? The just man is praying 
for us." But one among them, one of the fullers, took the staff with which he 
was accustomed to wring out the garments he dyed, and hurled it at the 
head of the just man.
And so he suffered martyrdom; and they buried him on the spot, and the pillar 
erected to his memory still remains, close by the temple. This man was a true 
witness to both Jews and Greeks that Jesus is the Christ.
And shortly after Vespasian besieged Judaea, taking them captive.
Concerning the relatives of our saviour.
There still survived of the kindred of the Lord the grandsons of Judas, who 
according to the flesh was called his brother. These were informed against, as 
belonging to the family of David, and Evocatus brought them before Domitian 
Caesar: for that emperor dreaded the advent of Christ, as Herod had 
done.
So he asked them whether they were of the family of David; and they 
confessed they were. Next he asked them what property they had, or how much 
money they possessed. They both replied that they had only 9000 denaria 
between them, each of them owning half that sum; but even this they said 
they did not possess in cash, but as the estimated value of some land, 
consisting of thirty-nine plethra only, out of which they had to pay the 
dues, and that they supported themselves by their own labour. And then they 
began to hold out their hands, exhibiting, as proof of their manual labour, the 
roughness of their skin, and the corns raised on their hands by constant 
work.
Being then asked concerning Christ and His kingdom, what was its nature, and 
when and where it was to appear, they returned answer that it was not of this 
world, nor of the earth, but belonging to the sphere of heaven and angels, and 
would make its appearance at the end of time, when He shall come in glory, and 
judge living and dead, and render to every one according to the course of his 
life.

Thereupon Domitian passed no condemnation upon them, but treated them with 
contempt, as too mean for notice, and let them go free. At the same time he 
issued a command, and put a stop to the persecution against the Church. 
When they were released they became leaders
of the churches, as was natural in the case of those who were at once martyrs 
and of the kindred of the Lord. And, after the establishment of peace to the 
Church, their lives were prolonged to the reign of Trojan.
Concerning the martyrdom of Symeon the son of Clopas, bishop of 
Jerusalem.

Some of these heretics, forsooth, laid an information against Symeon the son 
of Clopas, as being of the family of David, and a Christian. And on these 
charges he suffered martyrdom when he was 120 years old, in the reign of Trajan 
Caesar, when Atticus was consular legate
in Syria. And it so happened, says the same writer, that, while inquiry 
was then being made for those belonging to the royal tribe of the Jews, the 
accusers themselves were convicted of belonging to it. With show of reason could 
it be said that Symeon was one of those who actually saw and heard the Lord, on 
the ground of his great age, and also because the Scripture of the Gospels makes 
mention of Mary the daughter of Clopas, who, as our narrative has shown 
already, was his father.
The same historian mentions others also, of the family of one of the 
reputed brothers of the Saviour, named Judas, as having survived until this same 
reign, after the testimony they bore for the faith of Christ in the time of 
Domitian, as already recorded.
He writes as follows: They came, then, and took the presidency of 
every church, as witnesses for Christ, and as being of the kindred of the 
Lord. And, after profound peace had been established in every church, they 
remained down to the reign of Trojan Caesar: that is, until the time when 
he who was sprung from an uncle of the Lord, the aforementioned Symeon son of 
Clopas, was informed against by the various heresies, and subjected to an 
accusation like the rest, and for the same cause, before the legate Atticus; 
and, while suffering outrage during many days, he bore testimony for 
Christ: so that all, including the legate himself, were astonished above 
measure that a man 120 years old should have been able to endure such 
torments. He was finally condemned to be crucified.
... Up to that period the Church had remained like a virgin pure and 
uncorrupted: for, if there were any persons who were disposed to tamper with the 
wholesome rule of the preaching of salvation,
they still lurked in some dark place of concealment or other. But, when the 
sacred band of apostles had in various ways closed their lives, and that 
generation of men to whom it had been vouchsafed to listen to the Godlike Wisdom 
with their own ears had passed away, then did the confederacy of godless error 
take its rise through the treachery of false teachers, who, seeing that none of 
the apostles any longer survived, at length attempted with bare and 
uplifted head to oppose the preaching of the truth by preaching "knowledge 
falsely so called."
Concerning his journey to Rome, and the Jewish sects.
And the church of the Corinthians continued in the orthodox faith
up to the time when Primus was bishop in Corinth. I had some intercourse with 
these brethren on my voyage to Rome, when I spent several days with the 
Corinthians, during which we were mutually refreshed by the orthodox faith.
On my arrival at Rome, I drew up a list of the succession of bishops 
down to Anicetus, whose deacon was Eleutherus. To Anicetus succeeded Soter, and 
after him came Eleutherus. But in the case of every succession,
and in every city, the state of affairs is in accordance with the teaching of 
the Law and of the Prophets and of the Lord....
And after James the Just had suffered martyrdom, as had the Lord also 
and on the same account, again Symeon the son of Clopas, descended from 
the Lord's uncle, is made bishop, his election being promoted by all as 
being a kinsman of the Lord.
Therefore was the Church called a virgin, for she was not as yet corrupted by 
worthless teaching.
Thebulis it was who, displeased because he was not made bishop, first 
began to corrupt her by stealth. He too was connected with the seven sects which 
existed among the people, like Simon, from whom come the Simoniani; and 
Cleobius, from whom come the Cleobiani; and Doritheus, from whom come the 
Dorithiani; and Gorthaeus, from whom come the Gortheani; Masbothaeus, from whom 
come the Masbothaei. From these men also come the Menandrianists, and the 
Marcionists, and the Carpocratians, and the Valentinians, and the Basilidians, 
and the Saturnilians. Each of these leaders in his own private and 
distinct capacity brought in his own private opinion. From these have come false 
Christs, false prophets, false apostles-men who have split up the one Church 
into parts
through their corrupting doctrines, uttered in disparagement of God and 
of His Christ....
There were, moreover, various opinions in the matter of circumcision among 
the children of Israel, held by those who were opposed to the tribe of Judah and 
to Christ: such as the Essenes, the Galileans, the Hemerobaptists, the 
Masbothaei, the Samaritans, the Sadducees, the Pharisees.

