
Heracleon













Fragments from a Commentary on 
        the Gospel of John by Heracleon
Fragments preserved in Origen's Commentary on John:


Fragment 1, on John 1:3 (In John 1:3, “All things were made 
        through him, and without him nothing was made.”) The sentence: "All 
        things were made through him" means the world and what is in it. It 
        excludes what is better than the world. The Aeon (i.e. the Fullness), 
        and the things in it, were not made by the Word; they came into 
        existence before the Word. . . “Without him, nothing was made” of what 
        is in the world and the creation. . . "All things were made through 
        Him," means that it was the Word who caused the Craftsman (Demiurge) 
        to make the world, that is it was not the Word “from whom” or “by whom,” 
        but the one “through whom (all things were made).”. . . It was not the 
        Word who made all things, as if he were energized by another, for 
        "through whom" means that another made them and the Word provided the 
        energy. 



Fragment 2, on John 1:4 In the saying, “What was made in him 
        was Life" (John 1:4), ‘in him’ means ‘for spiritual people.’ For he (the 
        Word) provided them with their first form at their birth, in that what 
        had been sown by another he brought to form, illumination and into an 
        outline of its own, and set it forth. 



Fragment 3, on John 1:18 The words, “No one has ever seen 
        God; the only Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he has made him 
        known.” (John 1:18), were spoken, not by the Baptist, but by the 
        disciple. Fragment 4, on John 1:21 (In John 1:21, “And they asked him, 
        ‘What then? Are you Elijah?’ He said, ‘I am not.’ ‘Are you the prophet?’ 
        And he answered, ‘No.’) John acknowledged that he was not the Christ, 
        and neither a prophet, nor Elijah. 



Fragment 5, on John 1:23 (In John 1:23, “He said, ‘I am the 
        voice of one crying in the wilderness, 'Make straight the way of the 
        Lord,' as the prophet Isaiah said.’”) The Word is the Savior, the voice 
        in the wilderness is that symbolized by John, and the echo is the whole 
        prophetic order. . . A voice which is well fitted to the Word, becomes 
        Word, just as a woman is transformed into a man. . . The echo can be 
        changed in a similar way into a voice, giving the place of a disciple to 
        the voice which is changed into Word., but the place of a slave to the 
        echo which is changed into voice. . . When the Savior speaks of a 
        prophet and Elijah [Matthew 11:9,14], he is speaking not of John 
        himself, but of his attributes. But when he calls him greater than the 
        prophets and than those who are born of women [Matthew 11:9,11], then he 
        is describing the character of John himself. When John is asked about 
        himself, his answers relate to himself, not to attributes. . . His 
        attributes, like clothes, were other than himself. If he were asked 
        about his clothes “Are you your clothes?” he would not have answered 
        "Yes." . . . The Jews sent priests and Levites to question John because 
        it was fitting for these people to concern themselves with, and 
        investigate these matters, for they were firmly devoted to God, and 
        because he (John) was of the Levitical tribe. . . They asked him if he 
        were a prophet, wishing to know this more general fact [John 1:21]. . . 
        It was prophetically arranged that Isaiah would call him (John) 
        “greater,” since no other of all those who prophesied was deemed worthy 
        of this honor by God. 



Fragment 6, on John 1:25 (In John 1:25, “They asked him, 
        ‘Then why are you baptizing, if you are neither the Christ, nor Elijah, 
        nor the prophet?’”) The words of the Pharisees imply that the office of 
        baptizing belonged to the Christ and Elijah and to every prophet. On 
        them alone there is an obligation to baptize. . . The Pharisees asked 
        the question from malice, and not from a desire to learn. 



Fragment 7, on John 1:26 John's answers to those sent by the 
        Pharisees refer not to what they asked, but to what he wished. 




Fragment 8, on John 1:26 (In John 1:26-27, “John answered 
        them, ‘I baptize with water; but there stands among you one whom you do 
        not know, even he who comes after me, the thong of whose sandal I am not 
        worthy to untie.’”) The words, "there stands among you” are equivalent 
        to "He is already here, and he is in the world and among human beings, 
        and he is already manifest to you all.” . . . The statement, "He who 
        comes after me," shows John to be the forerunner of Christ, for he is in 
        fact a kind of servant running before his master. In the words, “The 
        thong of his sandal I am not worthy to untie,” the Baptist acknowledges 
        that he is not worthy even of the lowliest service for Christ. . . (He 
        means,) "I am not worthy that for my sake he should come down from the 
        Greatness and should assume flesh as his sandal, concerning which I am 
        not able to give any explanation or description, nor to unloose the 
        arrangement of it." . . . The sandal means the world. . . Everything 
        must be understood in relation to that person who was indicated through 
        John, that is the Craftsman of the world, who acknowledges through these 
        words that he is inferior to Christ. 



Fragment 9, on John 1:28 In Heracleon we read "Bethany" 
        (rather than the variant “Bethabara” in the text Origen was familiar 
        with). 



Fragment 10, on John 1:29 (In John 1:29, “The next day he 
        saw Jesus coming toward him, and said, ‘Behold, the Lamb of God, who 
        takes away the sin of the world!’”) John spoke the words, "Lamb of God" 
        as a prophet, but the words, "who takes away the sin of the world" as 
        more than a prophet. The first expression was spoken with reference to 
        his body, the second with reference to Him who was in that body. The 
        lamb is an imperfect member of the genus of sheep; the same being true 
        of the body as compared with the one that dwells in it. Had he meant to 
        attribute perfection to the body he would have spoken of a ram about to 
        be sacrificed. 



Fragment 11, on John 2:12 (In John 2:12, “After this he went 
        down to Capernaum, with his mother and his brothers and his disciples; 
        and there they stayed for a few days.”) The words, "After this he went 
        down to Capernaum," indicate the beginning of a new dispensation, for 
        "he went down" is not said idly. Capernaum, means these farthest-out 
        parts of the world, the material realm into which he descended. And 
        since the place was alien to him, he is not reported either to have done 
        anything or said anything in it. 



Fragment 12, on John 2:13 (In John 2:13, “The Passover of 
        the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.”) This is the 
        great feast. It was a type of the passion of the Savior, for the lamb 
        was not only slain, but, on being consumed, provided rest as well. When 
        sacrificed, it signified the passion of the Savior in this world; when 
        consumed, the rest that is in the marriage. 



Fragment 13, on John 2:13-16 The ascent to Jerusalem 
        signifies the ascent of the Lord from material realm things to the 
        animate (psychic) place, which is an image of Jerusalem. (In John 2:14, 
        “In the sanctuary he found those who were selling oxen and sheep and 
        pigeons, and the money-changers at their business.”) The words, "In the 
        sanctuary, he found” and not "in the temple" are used so that it may not 
        be thought to be the mere “calling” (animate), apart from the Spirit, 
        which elicits help from the Lord. The sanctuary is the Holy of Holies, 
        into which only the High-Priest enters, into which the spiritual go. The 
        temple courtyard, where the Levites also enter, is a symbol of the 
        animate ones who attain a salvation outside the Fullness (Pleroma). 
        Those who are found in the temple selling oxen and sheep and doves, and 
        the money-changers sitting there represent those who give nothing away 
        out of charity, but regard the entrance of strangers to the temple as an 
        occasion of trade and profit-making, and who provide the sacrifices for 
        the worship of God for their own gain and love of money. (In John 
        2:15-16, “And making a whip of cords, he drove them all, with the sheep 
        and oxen, out of the temple; and he poured out the coins of the 
        money-changers and overturned their tables. And he told those who sold 
        the pigeons, ‘Take these things away; you shall not make my Father's 
        house a house of trade.’”) And the whip which Jesus made of small cords 
        and did not receive from another is an image of the power and energy of 
        the Holy Spirit which blows away the wicked. The whip and the linen and 
        the napkin and all such things form an image of the power and energy of 
        the Holy Spirit. . . The whip was tied to a piece of wood, and this wood 
        is a type of the Cross. On this wood the merchants who were intent on 
        gain, and all wickedness was nailed up and done away. . . Out of these 
        two substances was the whip made, for he did not make it of dead 
        leather, but in order that he might make the Church no longer a den of 
        robbers, but the house of his Father. 



Fragment 14, on John 2:17 "Zeal for thy house will consume 
        me." (John 2:17) was spoken from the person of those powers which were 
        cast out and destroyed by the Savior. 



Fragment 15, on John 2:19 (In John 2:19, “Jesus answered 
        them, ‘Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.’”) The 
        words "in three days" are used instead of "on the third day." The third 
        day is the spiritual day, on which the resurrection of the Church is 
        revealed. 



Fragment 16, on John 2:20 (In John 2:20, “The Jews then 
        said, ‘It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and will you 
        raise it up in three days?’”) The fact that Soloman completed the temple 
        in forty-six years is an image of the Savior. The number six refers to 
        matter, that is, the structure (of his body), and the number forty, 
        which is the uncombined Four (Tetrad) refers to the inbreathing and the 
        seed in the inbreathing. 



Fragment 17, on John 4:12-15 (In John 4:13, Jesus answered 
        and said to her, “Whoever shall drink of this water shall thirst again. 
        But whoever shall drink of the water that I shall give shall never 
        thirst again.”) Insipid, temporary, and unsatisfying was that life and 
        its glory, for it was worldly. The proof of it being worldly is the fact 
        that the cattle of Jacob drank from it (i.e. the well). . . But the 
        water which the Savior gives is from his spirit and his power. . .The 
        words “shall never thirst again” mean that his life is eternal and never 
        perishes as does the first (life) which the well provides, but rather is 
        lasting. For the Grace and gift of our Savior cannot be taken away, and 
        is not consumed or destroyed in the one who partakes of it. The first 
        life is perishable. . . (In John 4:14, “The water I shall give that one 
        shall be a well of water within springing up into everlasting life.”) 
        The words “springing up” (John 4:14) refer to those who receive what is 
        richly supplied from above and who themselves pour forth for the eternal 
        life of others that which has been supplied to them. . . (In John 4:15, 
        The woman says to him, “Sir give me this water, that I shall not thirst, 
        nor come hither to draw.”) The Samaritan woman showed the kind of faith 
        that was inseparable from her nature and corresponded to it, in that she 
        did not hesitate over what he told her. . . Having been only just 
        pricked by the Word, from then on she hated even the place of the 
        so-called living water. . . Through her words, the woman reveals that 
        the water was toilsome, difficult to obtain, and not wholesome. 




Fragment 18, on John 4:16-18 (In John 4:16, “He said to her, 
        ‘Go and call your husband and come hither.’”) It is clear that he was 
        saying something like this, “If you wish to receive this water, go call 
        your husband.” The husband of the Samaritan woman mentioned by Jesus is 
        her Fullness, so that, on coming with him to the Savior, she may obtain 
        from him power and union and the mingling with her Fullness. For he was 
        not speaking to her about her earthly husband and telling her to call 
        him, for he knew quite well that she had no lawful husband. . . The 
        Savior said to her, “Call your husband and come hither,” and meant by 
        this her partner from the Fullness. . . In the spiritual sense she did 
        not know her husband, in the simple sense she was ashamed to say that 
        she had an adulterer, not a husband. . . (The words) “You have rightly 
        said that you do not have a husband” (John 4:17) mean that in the world 
        the Samaritan woman had no husband, for her husband was in the Aeon 
        (i.e. Fullness). (In John 4:18: “You have had five husbands and the one 
        you have now is not your husband.”) The six men indicate the whole of 
        the material evil in which she was involved and with which consorted, 
        when she lived irrationally in debauchery, and was insulted, rejected 
        and abandoned by them (the men). 



Fragment 19, on John 4:19 (In John it says “The woman said 
        to him, ‘Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet.’”) The Samaritan woman 
        acknowledged what was said to her by him. For it is characteristic of a 
        prophet to know all things. . . She behaved in a way suited to her 
        nature, for she neither denied, nor explicitly acknowledged her shame. 
        She was convinced that he was a prophet and, by her question, she 
        revealed at the same time the reason for which she had committed 
        immorality. Because of ignorance of God and of the worship agreeable to 
        God, she had also neglected all the things that were essential for her 
        life, whereas what is necessary in life was always otherwise available 
        to her. For she would not have come to the well which was outside the 
        city. . . Wanting to learn in that way, and pleasing whom, and 
        worshipping God, she might be released from her immorality, she said 
        “Our fathers worshipped on this mountain; and you say that in Jerusalem 
        is the place where men ought to worship." (John 4:20) 



Fragment 20, on John 4:21 (In John it says, “Jesus said to 
        her, ‘Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this 
        mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father.’”) The mountain 
        represents the Devil, or his world, since the Devil was one part of the 
        whole of matter, but the world is the total mountain of evil, a deserted 
        dwelling place of beasts, to which all who lived before the law and all 
        Gentiles render worship. But Jerusalem represents the creation or the 
        Creator whom the Jews worship. . . The mountain is the creation which 
        the Gentiles worship, but Jerusalem is the creator whom the Jews serve. 
        You then who are spiritual should worship neither the creation nor the 
        Craftsman, but the Father of Truth. And he (Jesus) accepts her (the 
        Samaritan woman) as one of the already faithful, and to be counted with 
        those who worship in truth. 



Fragment 21, on John 4:22 (In John, “You worship what you do 
        not know; we worship what we know, for salvation is of the Jews.”) The 
        “you” stands for the Jews and the Gentiles. . . We must not worship as 
        the Greeks do, who believe in the things of matter, and serve wood and 
        stone, nor worship the divine as the Jews. They who think they alone 
        know God do not know him, and worship angels, the month, and the moon.
        



Fragment 22, on John 4:22-23 “We worship” means the one who 
        is in the Aeon (i.e. the Savior), and those who have come with him. For 
        they knew whom they worship because they worship in truth. The words 
        “salvation is of the Jews” are said because he was born in Judea, but 
        not among them and because from that race salvation and the Word came 
        forth into the world. As far as the spiritual sense is concerned, 
        salvation came from the Jews because they are images of those who are in 
        the Fullness. . . (In John 4:23, it continues, “But the hour is coming, 
        and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit 
        and truth, for such the Father seeks to worship him”) For the previous 
        worshippers worshipped in flesh and in error him who is not the Father. 
        . . They worshipped the creation and not the true creator (cf. Romans 
        1:25), who is Christ, since “all things came into being through him, and 
        apart from him nothing came into being.” (John 1:3) 



Fragment 23, on John 4:23 continued Lost in the deep matter 
        of error is that which is akin to the Father, which is sought after in 
        order that the Father may be worshipped by those who are akin to him.
        



Fragment 24, on John 4:24 (In John 4:24a, it says,) “God is 
        spirit.” Undefiled, pure, and invisible is his divine nature. (In John 
        4:24b, it says,) “Those who worship him must worship in spirit and 
        truth." Worthily of the one who is worshipped, in a spiritual, not a 
        fleshly fashion. For those who have the same nature as the Father are 
        themselves spirit, and they worship in truth, not in error, as the 
        Apostle teaches when he calls this kind of piety “ a rational service.” 
        (Romans 12:2) 



Fragment 25, on John 4:25 (In John it says, “The woman said 
        to him, ‘I know that Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ; when he 
        comes, he will show us all things.’”) The Church received Christ and was 
        persuaded concerning him that he alone knows all things. 



Fragment 26, on John 4:26-27 (According to John 4:26, Jesus 
        said to her,) "I who speak to you am he." Since the Samaritan woman was 
        convinced that Christ, when he came, would announce everything to her, 
        he said ‘Know that I who speak with you am he whom you expect.’ And when 
        he acknowledged that he, the expected one, had come, “his disciples 
        came” (John 4:27), for on their account he had come to Samaria. 




Fragment 27, on John 4:28-30 (In John 4:28-29, “So the woman 
        left her water jar, and went away into the city, and said to the people, 
        ‘Come, see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the 
        Christ?’”) The water jar which is capable of receiving life is the 
        disposition and the thought of the power which is from the Savior. She 
        left it with him, that is, she had with the Savior such a vessel in 
        which she had come to fetch living water. She returned to the world to 
        announce the good tidings of Christ’s coming to the “calling” (i.e. the 
        animate ones). For through the Spirit and by the Spirit the soul is 
        drawn to the Savior. (In John 4:30, “They went out of the city and were 
        coming to him.” ) “They went out of the city” means out of their former 
        way of life, which was worldly. And they came through faith to the 
        Savior. 



Fragment 28, on John 4:31 (In John 4:31, “Meanwhile the 
        disciples besought him, saying, ‘Rabbi, eat.’) They wished to share with 
        him some of what they had obtained by purchase in Samaria. Fragment 29, 
        on John 4:32 (In John 4:32, he said to them,) “I have food to eat of 
        which you do not know.” Heracleon says nothing on this text. 


Fragment 30, on John 4:33 (In John 4:33, “So the disciples 
        said to one another, ‘Has any one brought him food?’”) They understood 
        in a rather low way, and imitated the Samaritan woman when she said, 
        “You have no bucket to draw with and the well is deep” 



Fragment 31, on John 4:34 (In John 4:34, “Jesus said to 
        them, ‘My food is to do the will of him who sent me, and to accomplish 
        his work.’”) With the words “My food is to do the will of him who sent 
        me,” the Savior explains to the disciples that this was what he had 
        discussed with the woman, calling the will of the Father his “food.” For 
        this was his sustenance, rest, and power. The will of the Father is that 
        human beings should know the Father and be saved. This is the work of 
        the Savior, on account of which he was sent to Samaria, that is, into 
        the world. 



Fragment 32, on John 4:35 (In John 4:35, “Do you not say, 
        'There are yet four months, then comes the harvest'? I tell you, lift up 
        your eyes, and see how the fields are already white for harvest.”) He 
        speaks of the harvest of crops as having a fixed period of four months, 
        whereas the harvest of which he is speaking was already fulfilled. The 
        harvest is of the souls of believers. They are already ripe, ready for 
        harvest, and suitable for being gathered into the barn, that is, through 
        faith into rest, all those who are ready. For they are not all ready. 
        Some were already ready, some were on the point of being ready, some are 
        near to being ready, and some are still being sown. 



Fragment 33, on John 4:35 continued What is indicated by the 
        text, “The harvest is great but the laborers are few” (Matthew 9:37) is 
        the same as is said by means of the other statement. It refers to being 
        ready for harvest and suitable for gathering into the barn, through 
        faith into rest, and suited for salvation and for reception of the Word.
        



Fragment 34, on John 4:36 (In John 4:36a, “The one who reaps 
        receives a wage, and gathers fruit for eternal life.”) The words, “The 
        one who reaps receives a wage” are said because the Savior call himself 
        “the one who reaps.” And the wage of our Lord is the salvation and 
        restoration (apokatastasis) of those who are harvested, brought about by 
        his resting upon them. “And gathers fruit for eternal life,” is stated 
        either because what is gathered is the fruit of eternal life or because 
        it is itself eternal life. 



Fragment 35, on John 4:36-37 The words “so that the sower 
        and the reaper may rejoice together” (John 4:36b) For the sower rejoices 
        because he sows, and because some of his seeds are gathered already, and 
        he has hope for the rest of them. The reaper also rejoices because he 
        harvests. But the former began by sowing, the latter by reaping. They 
        could not begin at the same time, for sowing must come first and reaping 
        afterwards. When the sower stops sowing, the reaper is still reaping. 
        But, at present, both fulfill their individual tasks and both rejoice 
        because they consider the perfection of the seeds as a common joy. And 
        on the words “For here the saying holds true, 'One sows and another 
        reaps.’” (John 4:37): The Son of Man above the Place (of the Middle) 
        sows; the Savior, himself also the Son of Man, harvests and sends as 
        reapers the angels represented by the disciples, each for his own soul.
        

Fragment 36, on John 4:38 (In John 4:38, “I sent you to reap 
        that for which you did not labor; others have labored, and you have 
        entered into their labor.") Neither through them nor by them were these 
        seeds sown, meaning the apostles. Those who labored are the angels of 
        the dispensation, through whom - as mediators - it (the seed) was sown 
        and brought up. “You have entered into their labor” means those who sow 
        and those who reap do not have the same work. The former, in cold and 
        rain and with much toil, dig up the earth and sow. Through the entire 
        winter, they care for it by hoeing and clearing away the weeds. But the 
        latter enter upon a prepared fruit in summer and joyfully reap. 






Fragment 37, on John 4:39 (In John 4:39, “Many Samaritans 
        from that city believed in him because of the woman's testimony, ‘That 
        one told me all that I ever did.’) The words “from the city” mean “from 
        the world.” And the phrase “because of the woman’s testimony” means 
        “because of the spiritual Church.” The word “many” was used because 
        there are many animate people but “the one” is the imperishable nature 
        of the election, uniform and unique. 

        Fragment 38, on John 4:40 (In John 4:40, “So when the 
        Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them; and he stayed 
        with them for two days.”) “He stayed with them,” not ‘among them’ and 
        “for two days,” signifying either the present age and the one to come in 
        marriage, or the time before the passion and the period afterwards 
        during which he stayed with them, converted many more to faith through 
        his own words, and the departed from them. 



Fragment 39, on John 4:42 In the words “It is no longer 
        because of your words that we believe” (John 4:42a), the word ‘only’ is 
        missing. “For we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this is 
        indeed the Savior of the world.” (John 4:42b) At first people believe in 
        the Savior because they are lead to that point by others, but when they 
        encounter his words they no longer believe because of human testimony 
        alone, but because of the Truth itself. 



Fragment 40, on John 4:46-53 (In John 4:46, “So he came 
        again to Cana in Galilee, where he had made the water wine. And at 
        Capernaum there was an official whose child was ill.) The official was 
        the Craftsman, for he himself ruled like a king over those under him. 
        Because his domain is small and transitory, he was called an “official,” 
        like a petty princeling who is set over a small kingdom by the universal 
        king. The “child” “in Capernaun” is one who is in the lower part of the 
        Middle (i.e. of animate substance), which lies near the sea, that is, 
        which is linked with matter. The child’s proper person was sick, that 
        is, in a condition not in accordance with the child’s proper nature, in 
        ignorance and sins. (In John 4:47, “When he heard that Jesus had come 
        from Judea to Galilee, he went and begged him to come down and heal his 
        child , for it was at the point of death.”) The words “from Judea to 
        Galilee” mean ‘from the Judea above.’. . . By the words “it was at the 
        point of death,” the teaching of those who claim that the soul is 
        immortal is refuted. In agreement with this is the statement that “the 
        body and soul are destoyed in Hell.” (Matthew 10:28) The soul is not 
        immortal, but is possessed only of a disposition towards salvation, for 
        it is the perishable which puts on imperishability and the mortal which 
        puts on immortality when “its death is swallowed up in victory.” (1 
        Corinthians 15:54) On “Unless you see signs and wonders you will not 
        believe.” (John 4:48): It is fittingly said to the kind of person whose 
        nature is determined through works, and who is convinced by means of 
        sense-perception and does not believe the word. The words, “Come before 
        my child dies” (John 4:49) were spoken because death is the goal and end 
        of the law which kills through sins. Before the child was utterly put to 
        death through sin, the father asks the only Savior to help his child, 
        that is, the nature thus constituted. (In John 4:50, “Jesus said to him, 
        ‘Go; your son will live.’ The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to 
        him and went his way.”) The words, “Your child will live”, were said by 
        the Savior modestly, for he did not say, ‘Let him live,’ nor did he make 
        it known that he himself provided the life. He went down to the sick 
        person and healed the illness, and having raised that one to life 
        through forgiveness, said, “Your child will live.” The words “the man 
        believed” mean that even the Craftsman is very ready to believe that the 
        Savior, even if not present, is able to heal. (In John 4:51, “As he was 
        going down, his servants met him and told him, ‘Your child lives!’”) The 
        words “his servants” refer to the angels of the Craftsman who bring 
        tidings in the words “Your child lives” that the child is behaving 
        fittingly and rightly, and no longer doing what is unseemly. The 
        servants bring news to the official about the salvation of his child, 
        since the angels are the first to see the actions of human beings in the 
        world, whether they have conducted themselves well and sincerely since 
        the sojourn of the Savior. (In John 4:52, “So he asked them the hour 
        when he began to mend, and they said to him, ‘Yesterday at the seventh 
        hour the fever left him.’”) By the hour, the nature of the person healed 
        is defined (as animate). (In John 4:53, “The father knew that was the 
        hour when Jesus had said to him, ‘Your child will live’; and he himself 
        believed, and all his household.”) In addition, “he himself believed, 
        and all his household” is said with reference to the order of angels and 
        the human beings who are akin to him (i.e. the Craftsman). There is a 
        question about whether or not some of the angels will be saved, namely 
        those who descended to the daughters of men (Genesis 6:2). The 
        destruction of the human beings of the Craftsman is made clear in the 
        words “The children of the kingdom will be cast out into outer 
        darkness.” (Matthew 8:12) Concerning them, Isaiah prophesied, “Children 
        did I rear and bring up, but they have rejected me” (Isaiah 1:2), and he 
        calls them alien children, and a wicked and lawless seed, a vineyard 
        which produces thorns (Isaiah 5:6). 



Fragment 41, on John 8:21 (In John 8:2, “Again he said to 
        them, ‘I go away, and you will seek me and die in your sin; where I am 
        going, you cannot come.’”) How can they come to be in a state of 
        imperishability when they are in ignorance, unbelief and sin? 




Fragment 42, on John 8:22 (In John 8:22, “Then said the 
        Jews, ‘Will he kill himself, since he says, “Where I am going, you 
        cannot come”?’”) The Jews said this because they entertained evil 
        thoughts and considered themselves greater than the Savior. They 
        supposed that they themselves would go away to God for eternal rest, but 
        the Savior, making away with himself, to corruption and death unto which 
        they thought they would not go. The Jews believed that the Savior said, 
        ‘I am about to do away with myself and go to corruption, where you 
        cannot come.’ 



Fragment 43, on John 8:37 (In John 8:37, “I know that you 
        are descendants of Abraham; yet you seek to kill me, because my word 
        finds no place in you.”) “Because my word finds no place in you” means 
        it has no place because they are unsuitable for it either by their 
        substance or by their disposition. 



Fragment 44, on John 8:43-44a (In John 8:43-44a, “Why do you 
        not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my 
        word. You are of your father the devil, and your wish is to do your 
        father's desires.”) The reason why they were unable to hear Jesus’ words 
        and understand what he said is provided in the words, “You are of your 
        father the Devil.” He says, ‘Why are you unable to hear my word? Because 
        you are of your father the Devil’ meaning you are of the substance of 
        the Devil. Thus he makes clear their nature, after convincing them in 
        advance that they are neither the children of Abraham otherwise they 
        would not have hated him, nor children of God because they did not love 
        him. 



Fragment 45, on John 8:44a Those to whom the word came were 
        of the substance of the Devil. 



Fragment 46, on John 8:44a The verse “You are of your father 
        the Devil” is to be understood as meaning ‘of the same substance as the 
        Devil.’ On “and your wish is to do your father’s desires”: The Devil has 
        no will, but only desires. . . This was said not to those who are by 
        nature children of the Devil, but to the animate people who have become 
        children of the Devil by intent. Some who are of this nature may also be 
        called children of God by intent. Because they have loved the desires of 
        the Devil and performed them, they become children of the Devil, though 
        they were not such by nature. The word “children” may be understood in 
        three ways: first, by nature; secondly, by inclination; thirdly, by 
        merit. (A child) by nature means (the child) is begotten by someone who 
        is himself begotten, and is properly called “child.” (A child) by 
        inclination is when one who does the will of another person by his own 
        inclination is called the child of the one whose will he does. (A child) 
        by merit is when some are known as children of hell, or of darkness and 
        lawlessness, and the offspring of snakes and vipers. For these do no 
        produce anything by their own nature; they are destructive and consume 
        those that are cast into them; but, since they did their works, they are 
        called their children. . . He now calls them children of the Devil, not 
        because the Devil produces any of them, but because by doing the works 
        of the Devil they became like him. 



Fragment 47, on John 8:44b (In John 8:44b, “He was a 
        murderer from the beginning, and has nothing to do with the truth, 
        because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks according to 
        his own nature, for he is a liar and the father of lies.”) His nature is 
        not of the Truth, but the opposite to the Truth: error and ignorance. 
        Therefore he can neither stand in Truth, nor have the Truth in himself. 
        From his nature he has falsehood as his own, and by nature he can never 
        speak the Truth. Not only is he himself a liar, but he is also 
        falsehood’s father. His “father” means his nature, since it is composed 
        of error and falsehood. 



Fragment 48, on John 8:50 (In John 8:50, “Yet I do not seek 
        my own glory; there is one who seeks it and he will be the judge.”) The 
        words “there is one who seeks it, and he will be the judge” do not refer 
        to the Father. The one who seeks and judges is the one who avenges me, 
        the servant commissioned for that purpose, who does not bear the sword 
        in vain, the avenger of the king. This is Moses, as he said to them 
        previously in the words, “on who you set your hope.” (John 5:45) The one 
        who judges and punishes is Moses, that is, the law-giver himself. How 
        then does he not say that all judgement has been delivered to him? (cf. 
        John 5:22) He affirms it rightly: for the judge does this will as a 
        servant when he judges, as happens clearly among human beings. 


Fragments preserved in the writings of Clement of 
        Alexandria:


Fragment 49, on Matthew 3:11 John says, “I baptise you with 
        water, but there comes after me one who baptizes with spirit and fire.” 
        (Matthew 3:11) He baptized no one with fire. But some have marked with 
        fire the ears of those who are sealed, and have thus understood the 
        apostolic word. (Heracleon is referring here to the gnostic group lead 
        by Marcellina.) 



Fragment 50, on Luke 12:8 (In Luke 12:8, “I assure you that 
        whoever confesses in me publicly, the Son of Man will do the same in him 
        before the angels of God”) The confession is made on the one hand that 
        made in faith and conduct, on the other hand that made with the mouth. 
        Confession with the mouth takes place also before the authorities, and 
        this the multitudes incorrectly consider to be the only confession, for 
        even the hypocrites can make this confession. But it will be found that 
        this word was not spoken universally. For not all who are saved made the 
        confession by mouth, among whom are Matthew, Philip, Thomas, Levi, and 
        many others. The confession by mouth is not universal, but relates to a 
        part. What is universal is the confession in works and action, which 
        corresponds to faith in him. And this confession is followed by the 
        partial one before the authorities, if it is necessary and the situation 
        requires it. That person will make the confession by mouth who has 
        previously confessed rightly in disposition. And of those who confess, 
        he rightly said “in me.” But in the case of those who deny he added a 
        “me,” even if they confess him with the mouth, they deny him since they 
        do not confess him in action. Only those who live in confession and 
        action which conform to him confess “in him.” In their case he confesses 
        himself, since he has grasped them, and is held by them so that they can 
        never deny him. For those who are not in him deny him. For he did not 
        say ‘whoever denies in me,’ but “in me”. For no one who was ever in him 
        will deny him. “Publicly” the confession takes place in similar fashion 
        before those who are saved and before the Gentiles, before the former by 
        conduct also, and before the latter by the mouth. 
