
Hippolytus of Rome












HIPPOLYTUS OF ROME
THE REFUTATION OF ALL HERESIES 
BOOK IV. 
CHAP. I.--SYSTEM OF THE ASTROLOGERS; SIDEREAL INFLUENCE; CONFIGURATION OF THE 
STARS. 
BUT in each zodiacal sign they call limits of the stars those in which each 
of the stars, from any one quarter to another, can exert the greatest amount of 
influence; in regard of which there is among them, according to their writings, 
no mere casual divergency of opinion. But they say that the stars are attended 
as if by satellites when they are in the midst of other stars, in continuity 
with the signs of the Zodiac; as if, when any particular star may have occupied 
the first portions of the same sign of the Zodiac, and another the last, and 
another those portions in the middle, that which is in the middle is said to be 
guarded by those holding the portions at the extremities. And they are said to 
look upon one another, and to be in conjunction with one another, as if 
appearing in a triangular or quadrangular figure. They assume, therefore, the 
figure of a triangle, and look upon one another, which have an intervening 
distance extending for three zodiacal signs; and they assume the figure of a 
square those which have an interval extending for two signs. But as the 
underlying parts smpathize with the head, and the head with the underlying 
parts, so also things terrestrial with superlunar objects. But there is of these 
a certain difference and want of sympathy, so that they do not involve one and 
the same point of juncture. 
CHAP. II.--DOCTRINES CONCERNING AEONS; THE CHALDEAN ASTROLOGY; HERESY 
DERIVABLE FROM IT. 
Employing these (as analogies), Euphrates the Peratic, and Acembes 4 the 
Carystian, and the rest of the crowd of these (speculators), imposing names 
different from the doctrine of the truth, speak of a sedition of AEons, and of a 
revolt of good powers over to evil (ones), and of the concord of good with 
wicked (AEons), calling them Taparchai and Proastioi, and very many other names. 
But the entire of this heresy, as attempted by them, I shall explain and refute 
when we come to treat of the subject of these (AEons). But now, lest any one 
suppose the opinions propounded by the Chaldeans respecting astrological 
doctrine to be trustworthy and secure, we shall not hesitate to furnish a brief 
refutation respecting these, establishing that the futile art is calculated both 
to deceive and blind the soul indulging in vain expectations, rather than to 
profit it. And we urge our case with these, not according to any experience of 
the art, but from knowledge based on practical principles. Those who have 
cultivated the art, becoming disciples of the Chaldeans, and communicating 
mysteries as if strange and astonishing to men, having changed the names 
(merely), have from this source concocted their heresy. But since, estimating 
the astrological art as a powerful one, and availing themselves of the 
testimonies adduced by its patrons, they wish to gain reliance for their own 
attempted conclusions, we shall at present, as it has seemed expedient, prove 
the astrological art to be untenable, as our intention next is to invalidate 
also the Peratic system, as a branch growing out of an unstable root. 
CHAP. III.--THE HOROSCOPE THE FOUNDATION OF ASTROLOGY; INDISCOVERABILITY OF 
THE HOROSCOPE; THEREFORE THE FUTILITY OF THE CHALDEAN ART. 
The originating principle, and, as it were, foundation, of the entire art, is 
fixing the horo scope. For from this are derived the rest of the cardinal 
points, as well as the declinations and ascensions, the triangles and squares, 
and the configurations of the stars in accordance with these; and from all these 
the predictions are taken. Whence, if the horoscope be removed, it necessarily 
follows that neither any celestial object is recognisable in the meridian, or at 
the horizon, or in the point of the heavens opposite the meridian; but if these 
be not comprehended, the entire system of the Chaldeans vanishes along with 
(them). But that the sign of the horoscope is indiscoverable by them, we may 
show by a variety of arguments. For in order that this (horoscope) may be found, 
it is first requisite that the (time of) birth of the person falling under 
inspection should be firmly fixed; and secondly, that the horoscope which is to 
signify this should be infallible; and thirdly, that the ascension of the 
zodiacal sign should be observed with accuracy. For from (the moment) of birth 
the ascension of the zodiacal sign rising in the heaven should be closely 
watched, since the Chaldeans, determining (from this) the horoscope, frame the 
configuration of the stars in accordance with the ascension (of the sign); and 
they, term this--disposition, in accordance with which they devise their 
predictions. But neither is it possible to take the birth of persons, falling 
under consideration, as I shall explain, nor is the horoscope infallible, nor is 
the rising zodiacal sign apprehended with accuracy. 
How it is, then, that the system of the Chaldeans is unstable, let us now 
declare. Having, then, previously marked it out for investigation, they draw the 
birth of persons falling under consideration from, unquestionably, the 
depositing of the seed, and (from) conception or from parturition. And if one 
will attempt to take (the horoscope) from conception, the accurate account of 
this is incomprehensible, the time (occupied) passing quickly, and naturally. 
For we are not able to say whether conception takes place upon the transference 
of the seed or not. For this can happen even as quick as thought, just also as 
leaven, when put into heated jars, immediately is reduced to a glutinous state. 
But conception can also (take place) after a lapse of duration. For there being 
an interval from the mouth of the womb to the fundament, where physicians say 
conceptions take place, it is altogether the nature of the seed deposited to 
occupy some time in traversing this interval. The Chaldeans, therefore, being 
ignorant of the quantity of duration to a nicety, never will comprehend the 
(moment of) conception; the seed at one time being injected straight forward, 
and falling at one spot upon actual parts of the womb well disposed for 
conception, and at another time dropping into it dispersedly, and being 
collected into one place by uterine energies. Now, while these matters are 
unknown, (namely), as to when the first takes place, and when the second, and 
how much time is spent in that particular conception, and how much in this; 
while, I say, ignorance on these points prevails on the part of these 
(astrologers), an accurate comprehension of conception is put out of the 
question. And if, as some natural philosophers have asserted, the seed, 
remaining stationary first, and undergoing alteration in the womb, then enters 
the (womb's) opened blood-vessels, as the seeds of the earth sink into the 
ground; from this it will follow, that those who are not acquainted with the 
quantity of time occupied by the change, will not be aware of the precise moment 
of conception either. And, moreover, as women differ from one another in the 
other parts of the body, both as regards energy and in other respects, so also 
(it is reasonable to suppose that they differ from one another) in respect of 
energy of womb, some conceiving quicker, and others slower. And this is not 
strange, since also women, when themselves compared with themselves, at times 
are observed having a strong disposition towards conception, but at times with 
no such tendency. And when this is so, it is impossible to say with accuracy 
when the deposited seed coalesces, in order that from this time the Chaldeans 
may fix the horoscope of the birth. 
CHAP. IV.--IMPOSSIBILITY OF FIXING THE HOROSCOPE; FAILURE OF AN ATTEMPT TO DO 
THIS AT THE PERIOD OF BIRTH. 
For this reason it is impossible to fix the horoscope from the (period of) 
conception. But neither can this be done from (that of) birth. For, in the first 
place, there exists the difficulty as to when it can be declared that there is a 
birth; whether it is when the foetus begins to incline towards the orifice, or 
when it may project a little, or when it may be borne to the ground. Neither is 
it in each of these cases possible to comprehend the precise moment of 
parturition, or to define the time. For also on account of disposition of soul, 
and on account of suitableness of body, and on account of choice of the parts, 
and on account of experience in the midwife, and other endless causes, the time 
is not the same at which the foetus inclines towards the orifice, when the 
membranes are ruptured, or when it projects a little, or is deposited on the 
ground; but the period is different in the case of different individuals. And 
when the Chaldeans are not able definitely and accurately to calculate this, 
they will fail, as they ought, to determine the period of emergence. 
That, then, the Chaldeans profess to be acquainted with the horoscope at the 
periods of birth, but in reality do not know it, is evident from these 
considerations. But that neither is their horoscope infallible, it is easy to 
conclude. For when they allege that the person sitting beside the woman in 
travail at the time of parturition gives, by striking a metallic rim, a sign to 
the Chaldean, who from an elevated place is contemplating the stars, and he, 
looking towards heaven, marks down the rising zodiacal sign; in the first place, 
we shall prove to them, that when parturition happens indefinitely, as we have 
shown a little before, neither is it easy to signify this (birth) by striking 
the metallic rim. However, grant that the birth is comprehensible, yet neither 
is it possible to signify this at the exact time; for as the noise of the 
metallic plate is capable of being divided by a longer time and one protracted, 
in reference to perception, it happens that the sound is carried to the height 
(with proportionate delay). And the following proof may be observed in the case 
of those felling timber at a distance. For a sufficiently long time after the 
descent of the axe, the sound of the stroke is heard, so that it takes a longer 
time to reach the listener. And for this reason, therefore, it is not possible 
for the Chaldeans accurately to take the time of the rising zodiacal sign, and 
consequently the time when one can make the horoscope with truth. And not only 
does more time seem to elapse after parturition, when he who is sitting beside 
the woman in labour strikes the metallic plate, and next after the sound reaches 
the listener, that is, the person who has gone up to the elevated position; but 
also, while he is glancing around and looking to ascertain in which of the 
zodiacal signs is the moon, and in which appears each of the rest of the stars, 
it necessarily follows that there is a different position in regard of the 
stars, the motion of the pole whiffing them on with incalculable velocity, 
before what is seen in the heavens is carefully adjusted to the moment when the 
person is born. 
CHAP. V.--ANOTHER METHOD OF FIXING THE HOROSCOPE AT BIRTH; EQUALLY FUTILE; 
USE OF THE CLEPSYDRA IN ASTROLOGY; THE PREDICTIONS OF THE CHALDEANS NOT 
VERIFIED. 
In this way, the art practised by the Chaldeans will be shown to be unstable. 
Should any one, however, allege that, by questions put to him who inquires from 
the Chaldeans, the birth can be ascertained, not even by this plan is it 
possible to arrive at the precise period. For if, supposing any such attention 
on their part in reference to their art to be on record, even these do not 
attain--as we have proved -unto accuracy either, how, we ask, can an 
unsophisticated individual comprehend precisely the time of parturition, in 
order that the Chaldean acquiring the requisite information from this person may 
set the horoscope correctly? But neither from the appearance of the horizon will 
the rising star seem the same everywhere; but in one place its declination will 
be supposed to be the horoscope, and in another the ascension (will be thought) 
the horoscope, according as the places come into view, being either lower or 
higher. Wherefore, also, from this quarter an accurate prediction will not 
appear, since many may be born throughout the entire world at the same hour, 
each from a different direction observing the stars. 
But the supposed comprehension (of the period of parturition) by means of 
clepsydras is likewise futile. For the contents of the jar will not flow out in 
the same time when it is full as when it is half empty; yet, according to their 
own account, the pole itself by a single impulse is whiffed along at an equable 
velocity. If, however, evading the argument, they should affirm that they do not 
take the time precisely, but as it happens in any particular latitude, they will 
be refuted almost by the sidereal influences themselves. For those who have been 
born at the same time do not spend the same life, but some, for example, have 
been made kings, and others have grown old in fetters. 

There has been born none equal, at all events to Alexander the Macedonian, 
though many were brought forth along with him throughout the earth; (and) none 
equal to the philosopher Plato. Wherefore the Chaldean, examining the time of 
the birth in any particular latitude, will not be able to say accurately, 
whether a person born at this time will be prosperous. Many, I take it, born at 
this time, have been unfortunate, so that the similarity according to 
dispositions is futile. 
Having, then, by different reasons and various methods, refuted the 
ineffectual mode of examination adopted by the Chaldeans, neither shall we omit 
this, namely, to show that their predictions will eventuate in inexplicable 
difficulties. For if, as the mathematicians assert, it is necessary that one 
born under the barb of Sagittarius' arrow should meet with a violent death, how 
was it that so many myriads of the Barbarians that fought with the Greeks at 
Marathon or Salamis were simultaneously slaughtered? For unquestionably there 
was not the same horoscope in the case, at all events, of them all. And again, 
it is said that one born under the urn of Aquarius will suffer shipwreck: (yet) 
how is it that so many of the Greeks that returned from Troy were overwhelmed in 
the deep around the indented shores of Euboea? For it is incredible that all, 
distant from one another by a long interval of duration, should have been born 
under the urn of Aquarius. For it is not reasonable to say, that frequently, for 
one whose fate it was to be destroyed in the sea, all who were with him in the 
same vessel should perish. For why should the doom of this man subdue the 
(destinies) of all? Nay, but why, on account of one for whom it was allotted to 
die on land, should not all be preserved? 
CHAP. VI.--ZODIACAL INFLUENCE; ORIGIN OF SIDEREAL NAMES. 
But since also they frame an account concerning the action of the zodiacal 
signs, to which they say the creatures that are procreated are assimilated, 
neither shall we omit this: as, for instance, that one born in Leo will De 
brave; and that one born in Virgo will have long straight hair, be of a fair 
complexion, childless, modest. These statements, however, and others similar to 
them, are rather deserving of laughter than serious consideration. For, 
according to them, it is possible for no AEthiopian to be born in Virgo; 
otherwise he would allow that such a one is white, with long straight hair and 
the rest. But I am rather of opinion, that the ancients imposed the names of 
received animals upon certain specified stars, for the purpose of knowing them 
better, not from any similarity of nature; for what have the seven stars, 
distant one from another, in common with a bear, or the five stars with the head 
of a dragon?--in regard of which Aratus says:- "But two his temples, and two his 
eyes, and one beneath Reaches the end of the huge monster's law." 
CHAP. VII.--PRACTICAL ABSURDITY OF THE CHALDAIC ART; DEVELOPMENT OF THE ART. 
In this manner also, that these points are not deserving so much labour, is 
evident to those who prefer to think correctly, and do not attend to the bombast 
of the Chaldeans, who consign monarchs to utter obscurity, by perfecting 
cowardice in them, and rouse private individuals to dare great exploits. But if 
any one, surrendering himself to evil, is guilty of delinquency, he who has been 
thus deceived does not become a teacher to all whom the Chaldeans are disposed 
to mislead by their mistakes. (Far from it); (these astrologers) impel the minds 
(of their dupes, as they would have them), into endless perturbation, (when) 
they affirm that a configuration of the same stars could not return to a similar 
position, otherwise than by the renewal of the Great Year, through a space of 
seven thousand seven hundred and seventy and seven years. How then, I ask, will 
human observation for one birth be able to harmonize with so many ages; and this 
not once, (but oftentimes, when a destruction of the world, as some have stated, 
would intercept the progress of this Great Year; or a terrestrial convulsion, 
though partial, would utterly break the continuity of the historical tradition)? 
The Chaldaic art must necessarily be refuted by a greater number of arguments, 
although we have been reminding (our readers) of it on account of other 
circumstances, not peculiarly on account of the art itself. 
Since, however, we have determined to omit none of the opinions advanced by 
Gentile philosophers, on account of the notorious knavery of the heretics, let 
us see what they also say who have attempted to propound doctrines concerning 
magnitudes,--who, observing the fruitless labour of the majority (of 
speculators), where each after a different fashion coined his own falsehoods and 
attained celebrity, have ventured to make some greater assertion, in order that 
they might be highly magnified by those who mightily extol their contemptible 
lies. These suppose the existence of circles, and measures, and triangles, and 
squares, both in twofold and threefold array. 
Their argumentation, however, in regard of this matter, is extensive, yet it 
is not necessary in reference to the subject which we have taken in hand. 
CHAP. VIII.--PRODIGIES OF THE ASTROLOGERS; SYSTEM OF THE ASTRONOMERS; 
CHALDEAN 
DOCTRINE OF CIRCLES; DISTANCES OF THE HEAVENLY BODIES. 
I reckon it then sufficient to declare the prodigies detailed by these men. 
Wherefore, employing condensed accounts of what they affirm, I shall turn my 
attention to the other points (that remain to be considered). Now they make the 
following statements. The Creator communicated pre-eminent power to the orbital 
motion of the identical and similar (circle), for He permitted the revolution of 
it to be one and indivisible; but after dividing this internally into six parts, 
(and thus having formed) seven unequal circles, according to each interval of a 
twofold and threefold dimension, He commanded, since there were three of each, 
that the circles should travel in orbits contrary to one another, three indeed 
(out of the aggregate of seven) being whirled along with equal velocity, and 
four of them with a speed dissimilar to each other and to the remaining three, 
yet (all) according to a definite principle. For he affirms that the mastery was 
communicated to the orbital motion of the same (circle), not only since it 
embraces the motion of the other, that, is, the erratic stars, but because also 
it possesses so great mastery, that is, so great power, that even it leads 
round, along with itself, by a peculiar strength of its own, those heavenly 
bodies--that is, the erratic stars--that are whirled along in contrary 
directions from west to east, and, in like manner, from east to west. 
And he asserts that this motion was allowed to be one and indivisible, in the 
first place, inasmuch as the revolutions of all the fixed stars were 
accomplished in equal periods of time, and were not distinguished according to 
greater or less portions of duration. In the next place, they all present the 
same phase as that which belongs to the outermost motion; whereas the erratic 
stars have been distributed into greater and varying periods for the 
accomplishment of their movements, and into unequal distances from earth. And he 
asserts that the motion in six parts of the other has been distributed probably 
into seven circles. For as many as are sections of each (circle)--I allude to 
monads of the sections --become segments; for example, if the division be by one 
section, there will be two segments; if by two, three segments; and so, if 
anything be cut into six parts, there will be seven segments. And he says that 
the distances of these are alternately arranged both in double and triple order, 
there being three of each,--a principle which, he has attempted to prove, holds 
good of the composition of the soul likewise, as depending upon the seven 
numbers. For among them there are from the monad three double (numbers), viz., 
2, 4, 8, and three triple ones, viz., 3, 9, 27. But the diameter of Earth is 80, 
108 stadii; and the perimeter of Earth, 250,543 stadii; and the distance also 
from the surface of the Earth to the lunar circle, Aristarchus the Samian 
computes at 8,000,178 stadii, but Apollonius 5,000,000, whereas Archimedes 
computes it at 5,544,1300. And from the lunar to solar circle, (according to the 
last authority,) are 50,262,065 stadii; and from this to the circle of Venus, 
20,272,065 stadii; and from this to the circle of Mercury, 50,817,165 stadii; 
and from this to the circle of Mars, 40,541,108 stadii; and from this to the 
circle of Jupiter, 20,275,0 
stadii; and from this to the circle of Saturn, 40,372,065 stadii; and from 
this to the Zodiac and the furthest periphery, 20,082,005 stadii. 
CHAP. IX.--FURTHER ASTRONOMIC CALCULATIONS. 
The mutual distances of the circles and spheres, and the depths, are rendered 
by Archimedes. He takes the perimeter of the Zodiac at 447,310,000 stadii; so 
that it follows that a straight line from the centre of the Earth to the most 
outward superficies would be the sixth of the aforesaid number, but that the 
line from the surface of the Earth on which we tread to the Zodiac would be a 
sixth of the aforesaid number, less by four myriads of stadii, which is the 
distance from the centre of the Earth to its surface. And from the circle of 
Saturn to the Earth he says the distance is 2,226,912,711 stadii; and from the 
circle of Jupiter to Earth, 502,770,646 stadii; and from the circle of Mars to 
Earth, 132,418,581. From the Sun to Earth, 121,604,454; and from Mercury to the 
Earth, 526,882,259; and from Venus to Earth, 50,815,160. 
CHAP. X.--THEORY OF STELLAR MOTION AND DISTANCE IN ACCORDANCE WITH HARMONY. 
Concerning the Moon, however, a statement has been previously made. The 
distances and profundities of the spheres Archimedes thus renders; but a 
different declaration regarding them has been made by Hipparchus; and a 
different one still by Apollonius the mathematician. It is sufficient, however, 
for us, following the Platonic opinion, to suppose twofold and threefold 
distances from one another of the erratic stars; for the doctrine is thus 
preserved of the composition of the universe out of harmony, on concordant 
principles in keeping with these distances. The numbers, however, advanced by 
Archimedes, and the accounts rendered by the rest concerning the distances, if 
they be not on principles of symphony,--that is, the double and triple 
(distances) spoken of by Plato,--but are discovered independent of harmonies, 
would not preserve the doctrine of the formation of the universe according to 
harmony. For it is neither credible nor possible that the distances of these 
should be both contrary to some reasonable plan, and independent of harmonious 
and proportional principles, except perhaps only the Moon, on account of wanings 
and the shadow of the Earth, in regard also of the distance of which alone--that 
is, the lunar (planet) from earth--one may trust Archimedes. It will, however, 
be easy for those who, according to the Platonic dogma itself, adopt this 
distance to comprehend by numerical calculation (intervals) according to what is 
double and triple, as Plato requires, and the rest of the distances. If, then, 
according to Archimedes, the Moon is distant from the surFace of the Earth 
5,544,130 stadii, by increasing these numbers double and triple, (it will be) 
easy to find also the distances of the rest, as if subtracting one part of the 
number of stadii which the Moon is distant from the Earth. 
But because the rest of the numbers--those alleged by Archimedes concerning 
the distance of the erratic stars--are not based on principles of concord, it is 
easy to understand--that is, for those who attend to the matter--how the numbers 
are mutually related, and on what principles they depend. That, however, they 
should not be in harmony and symphony--I mean those that are parts of the world 
which consists according to harmony--this is impossible. Since, therefore, the 
first number which the Moon is distant from the earth is 5,544,130, the second 
number which the Sun is distant from the Moon being 50,272,065, subsists by a 
greater computation than ninefold. But the higher number in reference to this, 
being 20,272,065, is (comprised) in a greater computation than half. The number, 
however, superior to this, which is 50,817,165, is contained in a greater 
computation than half. But the number superior to this, which is 40,541,108, is 
contained in a less computation than two-fifths. But the number superior to 
this, which is 20,275,065, is contained in a greater computation than half. The 
final number, however, which is 40,372,065, is comprised in a less computation 
than double. 
CHAP. XI.--THEORY OF THE SIZE OF THE HEAVENLY BODIES IN ACCORDANCE WITH 
NUMERICAL HARMONIES. 
These (numerical) relations, therefore, the greater than ninefold, and less 
than half, and greater than double, and less than two-fifths, and greater than 
half, and less than double, are beyond all symphonies, from which not any 
proportionate or harmonic system could be produced. But the whole world, and the 
parts of it, are in all respects similarly framed in conformity with proportion 
and harmony. The proportionate and harmonic relations, however, are 
preserved--as we have previously stated--by double and triple intervals. If, 
therefore, we consider Archimedes reliable in the case of only the first 
distance, that from the Moon to the Earth, it is easy also to find the rest (of 
the intervals), by multiplying (them) by double and treble. Let then the 
distance, according to Archimedes, from Earth to Moon be 5,544,130 stadii; there 
will therefore be the double number of this of stadii which the Sun is distant 
from the Moon, viz. 11,088,260. But the Sun is distant from the Earth 16,632,390 
stadii; and Venus is likewise distant from the Sun 16,632,390 stadii, but from 
the Earth 33,264,780 stadii; and Mercury is distant from Venus 22,176,520 
stadii, but from Earth 55,441,300 stadii; and Mars is distant from Mercury 
49,897, 170 stadii, and from Earth 105,338,470 stadii; and Jupiter is distant 
from Mars 44,353,040 stadii, but from Earth 149,691,510 stadii; Saturn is 
distant from Jupiter 149,691,510 stadii, but from Earth 299,383,020 stadii. 
CHAP. XII.--WASTE OF MENTAL ENERGY IN THE SYSTEMS OF THE ASTROLOGERS. 
Who will not feel astonishment at the exertion of so much deep thought with 
so much toil? This Ptolemy, however--a careful investigator of these 
matters--does not seem to me to be useless; but only this grieves (one), that 
being recently born, he could not be of service to the sons of the giants, who, 
being ignorant of these measures, and supposing that the heights of heaven were 
near, endeavoured in vain to construct a tower. And so, if at that time he were 
present to explain to them these measures, they would not have made the daring 
attempt ineffectually. But if any one profess not to have confidence in this 
(astronomer's calculations), let him by measuring be persuaded (of their 
accuracy); for in reference to those incredulous on the point, one cannot have a 
more manifest proof than this. O, pride of vain-toiling soul, and incredible 
belief, that Ptolemy should be considered pre-eminently wise among those who 
have cultivated similar wisdom! 
CHAP. XIII.--MENTION OF THE HERETIC COLARBASUS; ALLIANCE BETWEEN HERESY AND 
THE PYTHAGOREAN PHILOSOPHY. 
Certain, adhering partly to these, as if having propounded great conclusions, 
and supposed things worthy of reason, have framed enormous and endless heresies; 
and one of these is Colarbasus, who attempts to explain religion by measures and 
numbers. And others there are (who act) in like manner, whose tenets we shall 
explain when we commence to speak of what concerns those who give heed to 
Pythagorean calculation as possible; and uttering vain prophecies, hastily 
assume as secure the philosophy by numbers and elements. Now certain 
(speculators), appropriating similar reasonings from these, deceive 
unsophisticated individuals, alleging themselves endued with foresight; 
sometimes, after uttering many predictions, happening on a single fulfilment, 
and not abashed by many failures, but making their boast in this one. Neither 
shall I pass over the witless philosophy of these men; but, after explaining it, 
I shall prove that those who attempt to form a system of religion out of these 
(aforesaid elements), are disciples of a school weak and full of knavery. 
CHAP. XIV.--SYSTEM OF THE ARITHMETICIANS; PREDICTIONS THROUGH CALCULATIONS; 
NUMERICAL ROOTS; TRANSFERENCE OF THESE DOCTRINES TO LETTERS; EXAMPLES IN 
PARTICULAR NAMES; DIFFERENT METHODS OF CALCULATION; PRESCIENCE POSSIBLE BY 
THESE. 
Those, then, who suppose that they prophesy by means of calculations and 
numbers, and elements and names, constitute the origin of their attempted system 
to be as follows. They affirm that there is a root of each of the numbers; in 
the case of thousands, so many monads as there are thousands: for example, the 
root of six thousand, six monads; of seven thousand, seven monads; of eight 
thousand, eight monads; and in the case of the rest, in like manner, according 
to the same (proportion). And in the case of hundreds, as many hundreds as there 
are, so many monads are the root of them: for instance, of seven hundred there 
are seven hundreds; the root of these is seven monads: of six hundred, six 
hundreds; the root of these, six monads. And it is similar respecting decades: 
for of eighty (the root is) eight monads; and of sixty, six monads; of forty, 
four monads; of ten, one monad. And in the case of monads, the monads themselves 
are a root: for instance, of nine, nine; of eight, eight; of seven, seven. In 
this way, also, ought we therefore to act in the case of the elements (of 
words), for each letter has been arranged according to a certain number: for 
instance, the letter n according to fifty monads; but of fifty monads five is 
the root, and the root of the letter n is (therefore) five. Grant that from some 
name we take certain roots of it. For instance, (from) the name 
Agamemnon, there is of the a, one monad; and of the g, three monads; and of 
the other a, one monad; of the m, four monads; of the e, five monads; of the m, 
four monads; of the n, five monads; of the (long) o, eight monads; of the n, 
five monads; which, brought together into one series, will be 1, 3, 1, 4, 5, 4, 
5, 8, 5; and these added together make up 36 monads. Again, they take the roots 
of these, and they become three in the case of the number thirty, but actually 
six in the case of the number six. The three and the six, then, added together, 
constitute nine; but the root of nine is nine: therefore the name Agamemnon 
terminates in the root nine. 
Let us do the same with another name -Hector. The name ector has five 
letters--e, and k, and t, and o, and r. The roots of these are 5, 2, 3, 8, 1; 
and these added together make up 19 monads. Again, of the ten the root is one; 
and of the nine, nine; which added together make up ten: the root of ten is a 
monad. The name Hector, therefore, when made the subject of computation, has 
formed a root, namely a monad. It would, however, be easier to conduct the 
calculation thus: Divide the ascertained roots from the letters--as now in the 
case of the name Hector we have found nineteen monads--into nine, and treat what 
remains over as roots. For example, if I divide 19 into 9, the remainder is 1, 
for 9 times 2 are 18, and there is a remaining monad: for if I subtract 18 from 
19, there is a remaining monad; so that the root of the name Hector will be a 
monad. Again, of the name Patroclus these numbers are roots: 8, 1, 3, 1, 7, 2, 
3, 7, 2; added together, they make up 34 monads. And of these the remainder is 7 
monads: of the 30, 3; and of the 4, 4. Seven monads, therefore, are the root of 
the name Patroclus. 
Those, then, that conduct their calculations according to the rule of the 
number nine, take the ninth part of the aggregate number of roots, and define 
what is left over as the sum of the roots. They, on the other hand, (who conduct 
their calculations) according to the rule of the number seven, take the seventh 
(part of the aggregate number of roots); for example, in the case of the name 
Patroclus, the aggregate in the matter of roots is 34 monads. This divided into 
seven parts makes four, which (multiplied into each other) are 28. There are six 
remaining monads; (so that a person using this method) says, according to the 
rule of the number seven, that six monads are the root of the name Patroclus. 
If, however, it be 43, (six) taken seven times, he says, are 42, for seven times 
six are 42, and one is the remainder. A monad, therefore, is the root of the 
number 43, according to the rule of the number seven. But one ought to observe 
if the assumed number, when divided, has no remainder; for example, if from any 
name, after having added together the roots, I find, to give an instance, 36 
monads. 
But the number 36 divided into nine makes exactly 4 enneads; for nine times 
are 36, and nothing is over. It is evident, then, that the actual root is 9. 
And again, dividing the number forty-five, we find nine and nothing over--for 
nine times five are forty-five, and nothing remains; (wherefore) in the case of 
such they assert the root itself to be nine. And as regards the number seven, 
the case is similar: if, for example we divide 28 into 7, we have nothing over; 
for seven times four are 28, and nothing remains; (wherefore) they say that 
seven is the root. But when one computes names, and finds the same letter 
occurring twice, he calculates it once; for instance, the name Patroclus has the 
pa twice, and the o twice: they therefore calculate the a once and the a once. 
According to this, then, the roots will be 8, 1, 3, 1, 7, 2, 3, 2, and added 
together they make 27 monads; and the root of the name will be, according to the 
rule of the number nine, nine itself, but according to the rule of the number 
seven, six. 
In like manner, (the name) Sarpedon, when made the subject of calculation, 
produces as a root, according to the rule of the number nine, two monads. 
Patroclus, however, produces nine monads; Patroclus gains the victory. For 
when one number is uneven, but the other even, the uneven number, if it is 
larger, prevails. But again, when there is an even number, eight, and five an 
uneven number, the eight prevails, for it is larger. If, however, there were two 
numbers, for example, both of them even, or both of them odd, the smaller 
prevails. But how does (the name) Sarpedon, according to the rule of the number 
nine, make two monads, since the letter (long) o is omitted? For when there may 
be in a name the letter (long) o and (long) e, they leave out the (long) a, 
using one letter, because they say both are equipollent; and the same must not 
be computed twice over, as has been above declared. Again, (the name) Ajax makes 
four monads; (but the name) Hector, according to the rule of the ninth number, 
makes one monad. And the tetrad is even, whereas the monad odd. And in the case 
of such, we say, the greater prevails--Ajax gains the victory. Again, Alexander 
and Menelaus (may be adduced as examples). Alexander has a proper name (Paris). 
But Paris, according to the rule of the number nine, makes four monads; and 
Menelaus, according to the rule of the number nine, makes nine monads. The nine, 
however, conquer the four (monads): for it has been declared, when the one 
number is odd and the other even, the greater prevails; but when both are even 
or both odd, the less (prevails). Again, Amycus and Polydeuces (may be adduced 
as examples). Amycus, according to the rule of the number nine, makes two 
monads, and Polydeuces, however, seven: Polydeuces gains the victory. Ajax and 
Ulysses contended at the funeral games. Ajax, according to the rule of the 
number nine, makes font monads; Ulysses, according to the rule of the number 
nine, (makes) eight. Is there, then, not any annexed, and (is there) not a 
proper name for Ulysses? for he has gained the victory. According to the 
numbers, no doubt, Ajax is victorious, but history hands down the name of 
Ulysses as the conqueror, Achilles and Hector (may be adduced as examples). 
Achilles, according to the rule of the number nine, makes four monads; Hector 
one: Achilles gains the victory. Again, Achilles and Asteropaeus (are 
instances). Achilles makes four monads, Asteropaeus three: Achilles conquers. 
Again, Menelaus and Euphorbus (may be adduced as examples). Menelaus has nine 
monads, Euphorbus eight: Menelaus gains the victory. 
Some, however, according to the rule of the number seven, employ the vowels 
only, but others distinguish by themselves the vowels, and by themselves the 
semi-vowels, and by themselves the mutes; and, having formed three orders, they 
take the roots by themselves of the vowels, and by themselves of the 
semi-vowels, and by themselves of the mutes, and they compare each apart. 
Others, however, do not employ even these customary numbers, but different ones: 
for instance, as an example, they no not wish to allow that the letter p has as 
a root 8 monads, but 5, and that the (letter) x has as a root four monads; and 
turning in every direction, they discover nothing sound. When, however, they 
contend about the second (letter), from each name they take away the first 
letter; but when they contend about the third (letter), they take away two 
letters of each name, and calculating the rest, compare them. 
CHAP. XV.--QUIBBLES OF THE NUMERICAL THEORISTS; THE ART OF THE FRONTISPICISTS 
(PHYSIOGNOMY); CONNECTION OF THIS ART WITH ASTROLOGY; TYPE OF THOSE BORN UNDER 
ARIES. 
I think that there has been clearly expounded the mind of arithmeticians, 
who, by means of numbers and of names, suppose that they interpret life. Now I 
perceive that these, enjoying leisure, and being trained in calculation, have 
been desirous that, through the art delivered to them from childhood, they, 
acquiring celebrity, should be styled prophets. And they, measuring the letters 
up (and) down, have wandered into trifling. For if they fail, they say, in 
putting forward the difficulty, Perhaps this name was not a family one, but 
imposed, as also lighting in the instance they argue in the case of (the names) 
Ulysses and Ajax. Who, taking occasion from this astonishing philosophy, and 
desirous of being styled "Heresiarch," will not be extolled? 
But since, also, there is another more profound art among the all-wise 
speculators of the Greeks--to whom heretical individuals boast that they attach 
themselves as disciples, on account of their employing the opinions of these 
(ancient philosophers) in reference to the doctrines tempted (to be established) 
by themselves, as shall a little afterwards be proved; but this is an art of 
divination, by examination of the forehead? or rather, I should say, it is 
madness: yet we shall not be silent as regards this (system) There are some who 
ascribe to the stars figures that mould the ideas s and dispositions of men, 
assigning the reason of this to births (that have taken place) under particular 
stars; they thus express themselves: Those who are born under Aries will be of 
the following kind: long head, red hair, contracted eyebrows, pointed forehead, 
eyes grey and lively, drawn cheeks, long-nosed, expanded nostrils, thin lips, 
tapering chin, wide month. These, he says, will partake of the following nature: 
cautious, subtle, perspicuous, prudent, indulgent, gentle, over-auxious, persons 
of secret resolves fitted for every undertaking, prevailing more by prudence 
than strength, deriders for the time being, scholars, trustworthy, contentious, 
quarrellers in a fray, concupiscent, inflamed with unnatural lust, reflective, 
estranged from their own homes, giving dissatisfaction in everything, accusers, 
like madmen in their cups, scorners, year by year losing something serviceable 
in friendship through goodness; they, in the majority of cases, end their days 
in a foreign land. 
CHAP. XVI.--TYPE OF THOSE BORN UNDER TAURUS. 
Those, however, who are born in Taurus will be of the following description: 
round head, thick hair, broad forehead, square eyes, and large black eyebrows; 
in a white man, thin veins, sanguine, long eyelids, coarse huge ears, round 
mouths, thick nose, round nostrils, thick lips, strong in the upper parts, 
formed straight from the legs. The same are by nature pleasing, reflective, of a 
goodly disposition, devout, just, uncouth, complaisant, labourers from twelve 
years, quarrelsome, dull. The stomach of these is small, they are quickly 
filled, forming many designs, prudent, niggardly towards themselves, liberal 
towards others, beneficent, of a slow body: they are partly sorrowful, heedless 
as regards friendship, useful on account of mind, unfortunate. 
CHAP. XVII.--TYPE OF THOSE BORN UNDER GEMINI. 
Those who are born in Gemini will be of the following description: red 
countenance, size not very large, evenly proportioned limbs, black eyes as if 
anointed with oil, cheeks turned down, and large mouth, contracted eyebrows; 
they conquer all things, they retain whatever possessions they acquire, they are 
extremely rich, penurious, niggardly of what is peculiarly their own, profuse in 
the pleasures of women, equitable, musical liars. And the same by nature are 
learned, reflective, inquisitive, arriving at their own decisions, concupiscent, 
sparing of what belongs to themselves, liberal, quiet, prudent, crafty, they 
form many designs, calculators, accusers, importunate, not prosperous, they are 
beloved by the fair sex, merchants; as regards friendship, not to any 
considerable extent useful. 
CHAP. XVIII.--TYPE OF THOSE BORN UNDER CANCER. 
Those born in Cancer are of the following description: size not large, hair 
like a dog, of a reddish colour, small mouth, round head, pointed forehead, grey 
eyes, sufficiently beautiful, limbs somewhat varying. The same by nature are 
wicked, crafty, proficients in plans, insatiable, stingy, ungracious, illiberal, 
useless, forgetful; they neither restore what is another's, nor do they ask back 
what is their own; as regards friendship, useful. 
CHAP. XIX.--TYPE OF THOSE BORN UNDER LEO. 
Those born in Leo are of the following description: round head, reddish hair, 
huge wrinkled forehead, coarse ears, large development of neck, partly bald, red 
complexion, grey eyes, large jaws, coarse mouth, gross in the upper parts, huge 
breast, the under limbs tapering. The same are by nature persons who allow 
nothing to interfere with their own decision, pleasing themselves, irascible, 
passionate, scorners, obstinate, forming no design, not loquacious, indolent, 
making an improper use of leisure, familiar, wholly abandoned to pleasures of 
women, adulterers, immodest, in faith untrue, importunate, daring, penurious, 
spoliators, remarkable; as regards fellowship, useful; as regards friendship, 
useless. 
CHAP. XX.--TYPE OF THOSE BORN UNDER VIRGO. 
Those born in Virgo are of the following description: fair appearance, eyes 
not large, fascinating, dark, compact eyebrows, cheerful, swimmers; they are, 
however, slight in frame, beautiful in aspect, with hair prettily adjusted, 
large forehead, prominent nose. The same by nature are docile, moderate, 
intelligent, sportive, rational, slow to speak, forming many plans; in regard of 
a favour, importunate; gladly observing everything; and well-disposed pupils, 
they master whatever they learn; moderate, scorners, victims of unnatural lusts, 
companionable, of a noble soul, despisers, careless in practical matters, 
attending to instruction, more honourable in what concerns others than what 
relates to themselves; as regards friendship, useful. 
CHAP. XXI.--TYPE OR THOSE BORN UNDER LIBRA. 
Those born in Libra will be of the following description: hair thin, 
drooping, reddish and longish, forehead pointed (and) wrinkled, fair compact 
eyebrows, beautiful eyes, dark pupils, long thin ears, head inclined, wide 
mouth. The same by nature are intelligent, God-fearing, communicative to one 
another, traders, toilers, not retaining gain, liars, not of an amiable 
disposition, in business or principle true, free-spoken, beneficent, illiterate, 
deceivers, friendly, careless, (to whom it is not profitable to do any act of 
injustice); they are scorners, scoffers, satirical, illustrious, listeners, and 
nothing succeeds with these; as regards friendship, useful. 
CHAP. XXII.--TYPE OF THOSE BORN UNDER SCORPIO. 
Those born in Scorpio are of the following description: a maidenish 
countenance, comely, pungent, blackish hair, well-shaped eyes, forehead not 
broad, and sharp nostril, small contracted ears, wrinkled foreheads, narrow 
eyebrows, drawn cheeks. The same by nature are crafty, sedulous, liars, 
communicating their particular designs to no one, of a deceitful spirit, wicked, 
scorners, victims to adultery, well-grown, docile; as regards friendship, 
useless. 
CHAP. XXIII.--TYPE OF THOSE BORN UNDER SAGITTARIUS. 
Those born in Sagittarius will be of the following description: great length, 
square forehead. profuse eyebrows, indicative of strength, well-arranged 
projection of hair, reddish (in complexion). The same by nature are gracious, as 
educated persons, simple, beneficent; given to unnatural lusts, companionable, 
toil-worn, lovers, beloved, jovial in their cups, clean, passionate, careless, 
wicked; as regards friendship, useless; scorners, with noble souls, insolent, 
crafty; for fellowship, useful. 
CHAP. XXIV.--TYPE OF THOSE BORN UNDER CAPRICORN. 
Those born in Capricorn will be of the following description: reddish body, 
projection of greyish hair, round mouth, eyes as of an eagle, contracted brows, 
open forehead, somewhat bald, in the upper parts of the body endued with more 
strength. The same by nature are philosophic, scorners, and scoffers at the 
existing state of things, passionate, persons that can make concessions, 
honourable, beneficent, lovers of the practice of music, passionate in their 
cups, mirthful, familiar, talkative, given to unnatural lusts, genial, amiable, 
quarrelsome e lovers, for fellowship well disposed. 
CHAP. XXV.--TYPE OF THOSE BORN UNDER AQUARIUS. 
Those born in Aquarius will be of the following description: square in size, 
of a diminutive body; sharp, small, fierce eyes; imperious, ungenial, severe, 
readily making acquisitions, for friendship and fellowship well disposed; 
moreover, for maritime enterprises they make voyages, and perish. The same by 
nature are taciturn, modest, sociable, adulterers, penurious, practised in 
business, tumultuous, pure, well-disposed, honourable, large eyebrows; 
frequently they are born in the midst of trifling events, but (in after life) 
follow a different pursuit; though they may have shown kindness to any one, 
still no one returns them thanks. 
CHAP. XXVI.--TYPE OF THOSE BORN UNDER PISCES. 
Those born in Pisces will be of the following description: of moderate 
dimensions, pointed forehead like fishes, shaggy hair, frequently they become 
soon grey. The same by nature are of exalted soul, simple, passionate, 
penurious, talkative; in the first period of life they will be drowsy; they are 
desirous of managing business by themselves, of high repute, venturesome, 
emulous, accusers, changing their locality, lovers, dancers; for friendship, 
useful. 
CHAP. XXVII.--FUTILITY OF THIS THEORY OF STELLAR INFLUENCE. 
Since, therefore, we have explained the astonishing wisdom of these men, and 
have not concealed their overwrought art of divination by means of 
contemplation, neither shall I be silent as regards (undertakings) in the case 
of which those that are deceived act foolishly. For, comparing the forms and 
dispositions of men with names of stars, how impotent their system is! For we 
know that those originally conversant with such investigations have called the 
stars by names given in reference to propriety of signification and facility for 
future recognition. For what similarity is there of these (heavenly bodies) with 
the likeness of animals, or what community of nature as regards conduct anti 
energy (is there ill the two cases), that one should allege that a person born 
in Leo should be irascible, and one born in Virgo moderate, or one born in 
Cancer wicked, but that those born in . . . 

CHAP. XXVIII. --SYSTEM OF THE MAGICIANS; INCANTATIONS OF DEMONS; SECRET 
MAGICAL RITES. 
. . . And (the sorcerer), taking (a paper), directs the inquirer to write 
down with water whatever questions he may desire to have asked from the demons. 
Then, folding up the paper, and delivering it to the attendant, he sends him 
away to commit it to the flames, that the ascending smoke may waft the letters 
to demons. While, however, the attendant is executing this order, (the sorcerer) 
first removes equal portions of the paper, and on some more parts of it he 
pretends that demons write in Hebrew characters. Then burning an incense of the 
Egyptian magicians, termed Cyphi, he takes these (portions of paper) away, and 
places them near the incense. But (that paper) which the inquirer happens to 
have written (upon), having placed on the coals, he has burned. Then (the 
sorcerer), appearing to be borne away under divine influence, (and) hurrying 
into a corner (of the house), utters a loud and harsh cry, and unintelligible to 
all, . . . and orders all those present to enter, crying out (at the same time), 
and invoking Phryn, or some other demon. But after passing into the house, and 
when those that were present stood side by side, the sorcerer, flinging the 
attendant upon a bed, utters to him several words, partly in the Greek, and 
partly, as it were, the Hebrew language, (embodying) the customary incantations 
employed by the magicians. (The attendant), however, goes away to make the 
inquiry. And within (the house), into a vessel full of water (the sorcerer) 
infusing copperas mixture, and melting the drug, having with it sprinkled the 
paper that forsooth had (the characters upon it) obliterated, he forces the 
latent and concealed letters to come once more into light; and by these he 
ascertains what the inquirer has written down. And if one write with copperas 
mixture likewise, and having ground a gall nut, use its vapour as a fumigator, 
the concealed letters would become plain. And if one write with milk, (and) then 
scorch the paper, and scraping it, sprinkle and rub (what is thus scraped off) 
upon the letters traced with the milk, these will become plain. And urine 
likewise, and sauce of brine, and juice of euphorbia, and of a fig, produce a 
similar result. But when (the sorcerer) has ascertained the question in this 
mode, he makes provision for the manner in which be ought to give the reply. And 
next he orders those that are present to enter, holding laurel branches and 
shaking them, and uttering cries, and invoking the demon Phryn. For also it 
becomes these to invoke him; and it is worthy that they make this request from 
demons, which they do not wish of themselves to put forward, having lost their 
minds. The confused noise, however, and the tumult, prevent them directing 
attention to those things which it is supposed (the sorcerer) does in secret. 
But what these are, the present is a fair opportunity for us to declare. 
Considerable darkness, then, prevails. For the (sorcerer) affirms that it is 
impossible for mortal nature to behold divine things, for that to hold converse 
(with these mysteries) is sufficient. Making, however, the attendant lie down 
(upon the couch), head foremost, and placing by each side two of those little 
tablets, upon which had been inscribed in, forsooth, Hebrew characters, as it 
were names of demons, he says that (a demon) will deposit the rest in their 
ears. But this (statement) is requisite, in order that some instrument may be 
placed beside the ears of the attendant, by which it is possible that he signify 
everything which he chooses. First, however, he produces a sound that the 
(attendant) youth may be terrified; and secondly, he makes a humming noise; 
then, thirdly, he speaks through the instrument what he wishes the youth to say, 
and remains in expectation of the issue of the affair; next, he makes those 
present remain still, and directs the (attendant) to signify, what he has heard 
from the demons. But the instrument that is placed beside his ears is a natural 
instrument, viz., the windpipe of long-necked cranes, or storks, or swans. And 
if none of these is at hand, there are also some different artificial 
instruments (employed); for certain pipes of brass, ten in number, (and) fitting 
into one another, terminating in a narrow point, are adapted (for the purpose), 
and through these is spoken into the ear whatsoever the (magician) wishes. And 
the youth hearing these (words) with terror as uttered by demons, when ordered, 
speaks them out. If any one, however, putting around a stick a moist hide, and 
having dried it and drawn it together, close it up, and by removing the rod 
fashion the hide into the form of a pipe, he attains a similar end. Should any 
of these, however, be not at hand, he takes a book, and, opening it inside, 
stretches it out as far as he think requisite, (and thus) achieves the same 
result. 
But if he knows beforehand that one is present who is about to ask a 
question, he is the more ready for all (contingencies). If, however, he may also 
previously ascertain the question, he writes with the drug, and, as being 
prepared, he is considered more skilful, on account of having clearly written 
out what is (about) being asked. If, however, he is ignorant of the question, he 
forms conjectures, and puts forth something capable of a doubtful and varied 
interpretation, in order that the oracular response, being originally 
unintelligible, may serve for numerous purposes, and in the issue of events the 
prediction may be considered correspondent with what actually occurs. Next, 
having filled a vessel with water, he puts down (into it) the paper, as if 
uninscribed, at the same time infusing along with it copperas mixture. For in 
this way the paper written upon floats upwards (to the surface), bearing the 
response. Accordingly there ensue frequently to the attendant formidable fancies 
for also he strikes blows plentifully on the terrified (bystanders). For, 
casting incense into the fire, he again operates after the following method. 
Covering a lump of what are called "fossil salts" with Etruscan wax, and 
dividing the piece itself of incense into two parts, he throws in a grain of 
salt; and again joining (the piece) together, and placing it on the burning 
coals, he leaves it there. And when this is consumed, the salts, bounding 
upwards, create the impression of, as it were, a strange vision taking place. 
And the dark-blue dye which has been deposited in the incense produces a 
blood-red flame, as we have already declared. But (the sorcerer) makes a scarlet 
liquid, by mixing wax with alkanet, and, as I said, depositing the wax in the 
incense. And he makes the coals be moved, placing underneath powdered alum; and 
when this is dissolved and swells up like bubbles, the coals are moved. 
CHAP. XXIX.--DISPLAY OF DIFFERENT EGGS. 
But different eggs they display after this manner. Perforating the top at 
both ends, and extracting the white, (and) having again dipped it, throw in some 
minium and some writing ink. Close, however, the openings with refined scrapings 
of the eggs, smearing them with fig-juice. 
CHAP. XXX.--SELF-SLAUGHTER OF SHEEP. 
By those who cause sheep to cut off their own heads, the following plan is 
adopted. Secretly smearing the throat (of the animal) with a cauterizing drug, 
he places a sword near, and leaves it there. The sheep, desirous of scratching 
himself, rushes against the blade, and in the act of rubbing is slaughtered, 
while the head is almost severed from the trunk. There is, however, a compound 
of the drug, bryony and salt and squills, made up in equal parts. In order that 
the person bringing the drug may escape notice, he carries a box with two 
compartments constructed of horn, the visible one of which contains 
frankincense, but the secret one (the aforesaid) drug. He, however, likewise 
insinuates into the ears of the sheep about to meet death quicksilver; but this 
is a poisonous drug. 
CHAP. XXXI.--METHOD OF POISONING GOATS. 
And if one smear the ears of goats over with cerate, they say that they 
expire a little afterwards, by having their breathing obstructed. For this to 
them is the way--as these affirm--of their drawing their breath in an act of 
respiration. And a ram, they assert, dies, if one bends back (its neck) opposite 
the sun. And they accomplish the burning of a house, by daubing it over with the 
juice of a certain fish called dactylus. And this effect, which it has by reason 
of the sea-water, is very useful. Likewise foam of the ocean is boiled in an 
earthen jar along with some sweet ingredients; and if you apply a lighted candle 
to this while in a seething state, it catches the fire and is consumed; and (yet 
though the mixture) be poured upon the head, it does not bum it at all. If, 
however, you also smear it over with heated resin, it is consumed far more 
effectually. But he accomplishes his object better still, if also he takes some 
sulphur. 
CHAP. XXXII.--IMITATIONS OF THUNDER, AND OTHER ILLUSIONS. 
Thunder is produced in many ways; for stones very numerous and unusually 
large, being rolled downwards along wooden planks, fall upon plates of brass, 
and cause a sound similar to thunder. And also around the thin plank with which 
carders thicken cloth, they coil a thin rope; and then drawing away the cord 
with a whiff, they spin the plank round, and in its revolution it emits a sound 
like thunder. These farces, verily, are played off thus. 
There are, however, other practices which I shall explain, which those who 
execute these ludicrous performances estimate as great exploits. Placing a 
cauldron full of pitch upon burning coals, when it boils up, (though) laying 
their hands down upon it, they are not burned; nay, even while walking on coals 
of fire with naked feet, they are not scorched. But also setting a pyramid of 
stone on a hearth, (the sorcerer) makes it get on fire, and from the mouth it 
disgorges a volume of smoke, and that of a fiery description. Then also putting 
a linen cloth upon a pot of water, throwing on (at the same time) a quantity of 
blazing coals, (the magician) keeps the linen cloth unconsumed. Creating also 
darkness in the house, (the sorcerer) alleges that he can introduce gods or 
demons; and if any requires him to show AEsculapius, he uses an invocation 
couched in the following words:- "The child once slain, again of Phoebus 
deathless made I call to come, and aid my sacrificial rites; Who, also, once the 
countless tribes of fleeting dead, In ever-mournful homes of Tartarus wide, The 
fatal billow breasting, and the inky flood Surmounting, where all of mortal 
mould must float, Torn, beside the lake, with endless grief and woe, Thyself 
didst snatch from gloomy Proserpine. 
Or whether the seat of Holy Thrace thou haunt, or lovely Pergamos, or besides 
Ionian Epidaurus, The chief of seers, O happy God, invites thee here." 
CHAP. XXXIII.--THE BURNING AESCULAPIUS; TRICKS WITH FIRE. 
But after he discontinues uttering these jests, a fiery AEsculapius appears 
upon the floor. Then, placing in the midst a pot full of water, he invokes all 
the deities, and they are present. For any one who is by, glancing into the pot, 
will behold them all, and Diana leading on her baying hounds. We shall not, 
however, shrink from narrating the account (of the devices) of these men, how 
they attempt (to accomplish their jugglery). For (the magician) lays his hand 
upon the cauldron of pitch, which is in, as it were, a boiling state; and 
throwing in (at the same time) vinegar and nitre and moist pitch, he kindles a 
fire beneath the cauldron. The vinegar, however, being mixed along with the 
nitre, on receiving a small accession of heat, moves the pitch, so as to cause 
bubbles to rise to the surface, and afford the mere semblance of a seething 
(pot). The (sorcerer), however, previously washes his hands frequently in brine; 
the consequence being, that the contents of the cauldron do not in any wise, 
though in reality boiling, burn him very much. But if, having smeared his hands 
with a tincture of myrtle and nitre and myrrh, along with vinegar, he wash them 
in brine frequently, he is not scorched: and he does not burn his feet, provided 
he smear them with isinglass and a salamander. 
As regards, however, the burning like a taper of the pyramid, though composed 
of stone, the cause of this is the following. Chalky earth is fashioned into the 
shape of a pyramid, but its colour is that of a milk-white stone, and it is 
prepared after this fashion. Having anointed the piece of clay with plenty of 
oil, and put it upon coals, and baked it, by smearing it afresh, and scorching 
it a second and third time, and frequently, (the sorcerer) contrives that it can 
be burned, even though he should plunge it in water; for it contains in itself 
abundance of oil. The hearth, however, is spontaneously kindled, while the 
magician pours out a libation, by having time instead of ashes burning 
underneath, and refined frankincense and a large quantity of tow, and a bundle 
of anointed tapers and of gall nuts, hollow within, and supplied with 
(concealed) fire. And after some delay, (the sorcerer) makes (the pyramid) emit 
smoke from the mouth, by both putting fire in the gall nut, and encircling it 
with tow, and blowing into the mouth. The linen cloth, however, that has been 
placed round the cauldron, (and) on which he deposits the coals, on account of 
the underlying brine, would not be burned; besides, that it has itself been 
washed in brine, and then smeared with the white of an egg, along with moist 
alum. And if, likewise, one mix in these the juice of house-leek along with 
vinegar, and for a long time previously smear it (with this preparation), after 
being washed in this drug, it continues altogether fire-proof. 
CHAP.XXXIV.--THE ILLUSION OF THE SEALED LETTERS;OBJECT IN DETAILING THESE 
JUGGLERIES. 
After, then, we have succinctly explained the powers of the secret arts 
practised among these (magicians), and have shown their easy plan for the 
acquisition of knowledge, neither are we disposed to be silent on the following 
point, which is a necessary one,--how that, loosing the seals, they restore the 
sealed letters, with the actual seals themselves. Melting pitch, resin, and 
sulphur, and moreover asphalt, in equal parts, (and) forming the ointment into a 
figure, they keep it by them. When, however, it is time to loose a small tablet, 
smearing with oil their tongue, next with the latter anointing the seal, (and) 
heating the drug with a moderate fire, (the sorcerers) place it upon the seal; 
and they leave it there until it has acquired complete consistence, and they use 
it in this condition as a seal. But they say, likewise, that wax itself with 
fir-wood gum possesses a similar potency, as well as two parts of mastich with 
one part of dry asphalt. But sulphur also by itself effects the purpose 
tolerably well, and flower of gypsum strained with water, and of gum. Now this 
(last mixture) certainly answers most admirably also for sealing molten lead. 
And that which is accomplished by the Tuscan wax, and refuse of resin, and 
pitch, and asphalt, and mastich, and powdered spar, all being boiled together in 
equal parts, is superior to the rest of the drugs which I have mentioned, while 
that which is effected by the gum is not inferior. In this manner, then, also, 
they attempt to loose the seals, endeavouring to learn the letters written 
within. 
These contrivances, however, I hesitated to narrate in this book, perceiving 
the danger lest, perchance, any knavish person, taking Occasion (from my 
account), should attempt (to practise these juggleries). Solicitude, however, 
for many young persons, who could be preserved from such practices, has 
persuaded me to teach and publish, for security's sake, (the foregoing 
statements). For although one person may make use of these for gaining 
instruction in evil, in this way somebody else will, by being instructed (in 
these practices), be preserved from them. And the magicians themselves, 
corrupters of life, will be ashamed in plying their art. And learning these 
points that have been previously elucidated by us, they will possibly be 
restrained from their folly. But that this seal may not be broken, let me seal 
it with hog's lard and hair mixed with wax. 
CHAP. XXXV.--THE DIVINATION BY A CAULDRON; ILLUSION OF FIERY DEMONS; SPECIMEN 
OF A MAGICAL INVOCATION. 
But neither shall I be silent respecting that piece of knavery of these 
(sorcerers), which consists in the divination by means of the cauldron. For, 
making a closed chamber, and anointing the ceiling with cyanus for present use, 
they introduce certain vessels of cyanus, and stretch them upwards. The 
cauldron, however, full of water, is placed in the middle on the ground; and the 
reflection of the cyanus falling upon it, presents the appearance of heaven. But 
the floor also has a certain concealed aperture, on which the cauldron is laid, 
having been (previously, supplied with a bottom of crystal, while itself is 
composed of stone. Underneath, however, unnoticed (by the spectators), is a 
compartment, into which the accomplices, assembling, appear invested with the 
figures of such gods and demons as the magician wishes to exhibit. Now the dupe, 
beholding these, becomes astonished at the knavery of the magician, and 
subsequently believes all things that are likely to be stated by him. But (the 
sorcerer) produces a burning demon, by tracing on the wall whatever figure he 
wishes, and then covertly smearing it with a drug mixed according to this 
manner, viz., of Laconian and Zacynthian asphalt,--while next, as if under the 
influence of prophetic frenzy, he moves the lamp towards the wall. The drug, 
however, is burned with considerable splendour. And that a fiery Hecate seems to 
career through air, he contrives in the mode following. Concealing a certain 
accomplice in a place which he wishes, (and) taking aside his dupes, he 
persuades them (to believe himself), alleging that he will exhibit a flaming 
demon riding through the air. Now he exhorts them immediately to keep their eyes 
fixed until they see the flame in the air, and that (then), veiling themselves, 
they should fall on their face until he himself should call them; and after 
having given them these instructions, he, on a moonless night, in verses speaks 
thus:- "Infernal, and earthy, and supernal Bombo, come! 
Saint of streets, and brilliant one, that strays by night; Foe of radiance, 
but friend and mate of gloom; In howl of dogs rejoicing, and in crimson gore, 
Wading 'mid corpses through tombs of lifeless dust, Panting for blood; with fear 
convulsing men. 
Gorgo, and Mormo, and Luna, and of many shapes, Come, propitious, to our 
sacrificial rites!" 
CHAP. XXXVI.--MODE OF MANAGING AN APPARITION. 
And while speaking these words, fire is seen borne through the air; but the 
(spectators) being horrified at the strange apparition, (and) cover ing their 
eyes, fling themselves speechless to earth. But the success of the artifice is 
enhanced by the following contrivance. The accomplice whom I have spoken of as 
being concealed, when he hears the incantation ceasing, holding a kite or hawk 
enveloped with tow, sets fire to it and releases it. The bird, however, 
frightened by the flame, is borne aloft, and makes a (proportionably) quicker 
flight, which these deluded persons beholding, conceal themselves, as if they 
had seen something divine. The winged creature, however, being whirled round by 
the fire, is borne whithersoever chance may have it, and burns now the houses, 
and now the courtyards. Such is the divination of the sorcerers. 
CHAP. XXXVII.--ILLUSIVE APPEARANCE OF THE MOON. 
And they make moon and stars appear on the ceiling after this manner. In the 
central part of the ceiling, having fastened a mirror, placing a dish full of 
water equally (with the mirror) in the central portion of the floor, and setting 
in a central place likewise a candle, emitting a faint light from a higher 
position than the dish,--in this way, by reflection, (the magician) causes the 
moon to appear by the mirror. But frequently, also, they suspend on high from 
the ceiling, at a distance, a drum, but which, being covered with some garment, 
is concealed by the accomplice, in order that (the heavenly body) may not appear 
before the (proper) time. And afterwards placing a candle (within the drum), 
when the magician gives the signal to the accomplice, he removes so much of the 
covering as may be sufficient for effecting an imitation representing the figure 
of the moon as it is at that particular time. He smears, however, the luminous 
parts of the drum with cinnabar and gum; and having pared around the neck and 
bottom of a flagon of glass ready behind, he puts a candle in it, and places 
around it some of the requisite contrivances for making the figures shine, which 
some one of the accomplices has concealed on high; and on receiving the signal, 
he throws down from above the contrivances, so to make the moon appear 
descending from the sky. 
And the same result is achieved by means of a jar in sylvan localities. For 
it is by means of a jar that the tricks in a house are performed. For having set 
up an altar, subsequently is (placed upon it) the jar, having a lighted lamp; 
when, however, there are a greater number of lamps, no such sight is displayed. 
After then the enchanter invokes the moon, he orders all the lights to be 
extinguished, yet that one be left faintly burning; and then the light, that 
which streams from the jar, is reflected on the ceiling, and furnishes to those 
present a representation of the moon; the mouth of the jar being kept covered 
for the time which it would seem to require, in order that the representation of 
full moon should be exhibited on the ceiling. 
CHAP. XXXVIII.--ILLUSIVE APPEARANCE OF THE STARS. 
But the scales of fishes--for instance, the seahorse--cause the stars to 
appear to be; the scales being steeped in a mixture of water and gum, and 
fastened on the ceiling at intervals. 
CHAP. XXXIX.--IMITATION OF AN EARTHQUAKE. 
The sensation of an earthquake they cause in such a way, as that all things 
seem set in motion; ordure of a weasel burned with a magnet upon coals (has this 
effect). 
CHAP. XL.--TRICK WITH THE LIVER. 
And they exhibit a liver seemingly bearing an inscription in this manner. 
With the left hand he writes what he wishes, appending it to the question, and 
the letters are traced with gall juice and strong vinegar. Then taking up the 
liver, retaining it in the left hand, he makes some delay, and then it draws 
away the impression, and it is supposed to have, as it were, writing upon it. 
CHAP. XLI.--MAKING A SKULL SPEAK. 
But putting a skull on the ground, they make it speak in this manner. The 
skull itself is made out of the caul of an ox; and when fashioned into the 
requisite figure, by means of Etruscan wax and prepared gum, (and) when this 
membrane is placed around, it presents the appearance of a skull, which seems to 
all to speak when the contrivance operates; in the same manner as we have 
explained in the case of the (attendant) youths, when, having procured the 
windpipe of a crane, or some such long-necked animal, and attaching it covertly 
to the skull, the accomplice utters what he wishes. And when he desires (the 
skull) to become invisible, he appears as if burning incense, placing around, 
(for this purpose,) a quantity of coals; and when the wax catches the heat of 
these, it melts, and in this way the skull is supposed to become invisible. 
CHAP. XLII.--THE FRAUD OF THE FOREGOING PRACTICES; THEIR CONNECTION WITH 
HERESY. 
These are the deeds of the magicians, and innumerable other such (tricks) 
there are which work on the credulity of the dupes, by fair balanced words, and 
the appearance of plausible acts. And the heresiarchs, astonished at the art of 
these (sorcerers), have imitated them, partly by delivering their doctrines in 
secrecy and darkness, and partly by advancing (these tenets) as their own. For 
this reason, being desirous of warning the multitude, we have been the more 
painstaking, in order not to omit any expedient practised by the magicians, for 
those who may be disposed to be deceived. We have been however drawn, not 
unreasonably, into a detail of some of the secret (mysteries) of the sorcerers, 
which are not very requisite, to be sure, in reference to the subject taken in 
hand; yet, for the purpose of guarding against the villanous and incoherent art 
of magicians, may be supposed useful. Since, therefore, as far as delineation is 
feasible, we have explained the opinions of all (speculators), exerting especial 
attention towards the elucidation of the opinions introduced as novelties by the 
heresiarchs; (opinions) which, as far as piety is concerned, are futile and 
spurious, and which are not, even among themselves, perhaps deemed worthy of 
serious consideration. (Having pursued this course of inquiry), it seems 
expedient that, by means of a compendious discourse, we should recall to the 
(reader's) memory statements that have been previously made. 
CHAP. XLIII.--RECAPITULATION OF THEOLOGIES AND COSMOGONIES; SYSTEM OF THE 
PERSIANS; OF THE BABYLONIANS; THE EGYPTIAN NOTION OF DEITY; THEIR THEOLOGY BASED 
ON A THEORY OF NUMBERS; THEIR SYSTEM OF COSMOGONY. 
Among all those who throughout the earth, as philosophers and theologians, 
have carried on investigations, has prevailed diversity of opinion concerning 
the Deity, as to His essence or nature. For some affirm Him to be fire, and some 
spirit, and some water, while others say that He is earth. And each of the 
elements labours under some deficiency, and one is worsted by the other. To the 
wise men of the world, this, however, has occurred, which is obvious to persons 
possessing intelligence; (I mean) that, beholding the stupendous works of 
creation, they were confused respecting the substance of existing things, 
supposing that these were too vast to admit of deriving generation from another, 
and at the same time (asserting) that neither the universe itself is God. As far 
as theology was concerned, they declared, however, a single cause for things 
that fall under the cognizance of vision, each supposing the cause which he 
adjudged the most reasonable; and so, when gazing on the objects made by God, 
and on those which are the most insignificant in comparison with His 
overpowering majesty, not, however, being able to extend the mind to the 
magnitude of God as He really is, they deified these (works of the external 
world). 
But the Persians, supposing that they had penetrated more within the confines 
of the truth, asserted that the Deity is luminous, a light contained in air. The 
Babylonians, however, affirmed that the Deity is dark, which very opinion also 
appears the consequence of the other; for day follows night, and night day. Do 
not the Egyptians, however, who suppose themselves more ancient than all, speak 
of the power of the Deity? (This power they estimate by) calculating these 
intervals of the parts (of the zodiac; and, as if) by a most divine inspiration, 
they asserted that the Deity is an indivisible monad, both itself generating 
itself, and that out of this were formed all things. For this, say they, being 
unbegotten, produces the succeeding numbers; for instance, the monad, superadded 
into itself, generates the duad; and in like manner, when superadded (into duad, 
triad, and so forth), produces the triad and tetrad, up to the decade, which is 
the beginning and end of numbers. Wherefore it is that the first and tenth monad 
is generated, on account of the decade being equipollent, and being reckoned for 
a monad, and (because) this multiplied ten times will become a hundred, and 
again becomes a monad, and the hundred multiplied ten times will produce a 
thousand, and this will be a monad. In this manner also the thousand multiplied 
ten times make up the full sum of a myriad; in like manner will it be a monad. 
But by a comparison of indivisible quantities, the kindred numbers of the monad 
comprehend 3, 5, 7, 9. 
There is also, however, a more natural relation of a different number to the 
monad, according to the arrangement of the orbit of six days' duration, (that 
is), of the duad, according to the position and division of even numbers. But 
the kindred number is 4 and 8. These, however, taking from the monad of the 
numbers an idea of virtue, progressed up to the four elements; (I allude), of 
course, to spirit, and fire, and water, and earth. And out of these having made 
the world, (God) framed it an ermaphrodite, and allocated two elements for the 
upper hemisphere, namely spirit and fire; and this is styled the hemisphere of 
the monad, (a hemisphere) beneficent, and ascending, and masculine. For, being 
composed of small particles, the monad soars into the most rarified and purest 
part of the atmosphere; and the other two elements, earth and water, being more 
gross, he assigned to the duad; and this is termed the descending hemisphere, 
both feminine and mischievous. And likewise, again, the upper elements 
themselves, when compared one with another, comprise in one another both male 
and female for fruitfulness and increase of the whole creation. And the fire is 
masculine, and the spirit feminine. And again the water is masculine, and the 
earth feminine. And so from the beginning fire consorted with spirit, and water 
with earth. For as the power of spirit is fire, so also that of earth is water; 
. . . and the elements themselves, when computed and resolved by subtraction of 
enneads, terminate properly, some of them in the masculine number, and others of 
them in the feminine. And, again, the ennead is subtracted for this cause, 
because the three hundred and sixty parts of the entire (circle) consist of 
enneads, and for this reason the four regions of the world are circumscribed by 
ninety perfect parts. And light has been appropriated to the monad, and darkness 
to the duad, and life to light, according to nature, and death to the duad. And 
to life (has been appropriated) justice; and to death, injustice. Wherefore 
everything generated among masculine numbers is beneficent, while that 
(produced) among feminine (numbers) is mischievous. For instance, they pursue 
their calculations thus: monad--that we may commence from this--becomes 361, 
which (numbers) terminate in a monad by the subtraction of the ennead. In like 
manner, reckon thus: Duad becomes 605; take away the enneads, it ends in a duad, 
and each reverts into its own peculiar (function). 
CHAP. XLIV.--EGYPTIAN THEORY OF NATURE; THEIR AMULETS. 
For the monad, therefore, as being beneficent, they assert that there are 
consequently names ascending, and beneficent, and masculine, and carefully 
observed, terminating in an uneven number; whereas that those terminating in the 
even number have been supposed to be both descending, and feminine and 
malicious. For they affirm that nature is made up of contraries, namely bad and 
good, as right and left, light and darkness, night and day, life and death. And 
moreover they make this assertion, that they have calculated the word "Deity," 
(and found that it reverts into a pentad with an ennead subtracted). Now this 
name is an even number, and when it is written down (on some material) they 
attach it to the body, and accomplish cures by it. In this manner, likewise, a 
certain herb, terminating in this number, being similarly fastened around (the 
frame), operates by reason of a similar calculation of the number. Nay, even a 
doctor cures sickly people by a similar calculation. If, however, the 
calculation is contrary, it does not heal with facility. Persons attending to 
these numbers reckon as many as are homogeneous according to this principle; 
some, however, according to vowels alone; whereas others according to the entire 
number. Such also is the wisdom of the Egyptians, by which, as they boast, they 
suppose that they cognise the divine nature. 
CHAP. XLV.--USE OF THE FOREGOING DISCUSSIONS, 
It appears, then, that these speculations also have been sufficiently 
explained by us. But since I think that I have omitted no opinion found in this 
earthly and grovelling Wisdom, I 
perceive that the solicitude expended by us on these subjects has not been 
useless. For we observe that our discourse has been serviceable not only for a 
refutation of heresies, but also in reference to those who entertain these 
opinions. Now these, when they encounter the extreme care evinced by us, will 
even be struck with admiration of our earnestness, and will not despise our 
industry and condemn Christians as fools when they discern the opinions to which 
they themselves have stupidly accorded their belief. And furthermore, those who, 
desirous of learning, addict themselves to the truth, will be assisted by our 
discourse to become, when they have learned the fundamental principles of the 
heresies, more intelligent not only for the easy refutation of those who have 
attempted to deceive them, but that also, when they have ascertained the avowed 
opinions of the wise men, and have been made acquainted with them, that they 
shall neither be confused by them as ignorant persons would, nor become the 
dupes of certain individuals acting as if from some authority; nay, more than 
this, they shall be on their guard against those that are allowing themselves to 
become victims to these delusions. 
CHAP. XLVI.--THE ASTROTHEOSOPHISTS; ARATUS IMITATED BY THE HERESIARCHS; HIS 
SYSTEM OF THE DISPOSITION OF THE STARS. 
Having sufficiently explained these opinions, let us next pass on to a 
consideration of the subject taken in hand, in order that, by proving what we 
have determined concerning heresies, and by compelling their (champions) to 
return to these several (speculators) their peculiar tenets, we may show the 
heresiarchs destitute (of a system); and by proclaiming the folly of those who 
are persuaded (by these heterodox tenets), we shall prevail on them to retrace 
their course to the serene haven of the truth. In order, however, that the 
statements about to follow may seem more clear to the readers, it is expedient 
also to declare the opinions advanced by Aratus concerning the disposition of 
the stars of the heavens. (And this is necessary), inasmuch as some persons, 
assimilating these (doctrines) to those declared by the Scriptures, convert (the 
holy writings) into allegories, and endeavour to seduce the mind of those who 
give heed to their (tenets), drawing them on by plausible words into the 
admission of whatever opinions they wish, (and) exhibiting a strange marvel, as 
if the assertions made by them were fixed among the stars. They, however, gazing 
intently on the very extraordinary wonder, admirers as they are of trifles, are 
fascinated like a bird called the owl, which example it is proper to mention, on 
account of the statements that are about to follow. The animal (I speak of) is, 
however, not very different from an eagle, either in size or figure, and it is 
captured in the following way:--The hunter of these birds, when he sees a flock 
of them lighting anywhere, shaking his hands, at a distance pretends to dance, 
and so by little and little draws near the birds. But they, struck with 
amazement at the strange sight, are rendered unobservant of everything passing 
around them. 
But others of the party, who have come into the country equipped for such a 
purpose, coming from behind upon the birds, easily lay hold on them as they are 
gazing on the dancer. 
Wherefore I desire that no one, astonished by similar wonders of those who 
interpret the (aspect of) heaven, should, like the owl, be taken captive. For 
the knavery practised by such speculators may be considered dancing and 
silliness, but not truth. Aratus, therefore, expresses himself thus:- "Just as 
many are they; hither and thither they roll Day by day o'er heav'n, endless, 
ever, (that is, every star), Yet this declines not even little; but thus exactly 
E'er remains with axis fixed and poised in every part Holds earth midway, and 
heaven itself around conducts." 
CHAP. XLVII.--OPINIONS OF THE HERETICS BORROWED FROM ARATUS. 
Aratus says that there are in the sky revolving, that is, gyrating stars, 
because from east to west, and west to east, they journey perpetually, (and) in 
an orbicular figure. And he says that there revolves towards "The Bears" 
themselves, like some stream of a river, an enormous and prodigious monster, 
(the) Serpent; and that this is what the devil says in the book of Job to the 
Deity, when (Satan) uses these words: "I have traversed earth under heaven, and 
have gone around," that is, that I have been turned around, and thereby have 
been able to survey the worlds. For they suppose that towards the North Pole is 
situated the Dragon, the Serpent, from the highest pole looking upon all (the 
objects), and gazing on all the works of creation, in order that nothing of the 
things that are being made may escape his notice. For though all the stars in 
the firmament set, the pole of this (luminary) alone never sets, but, careering 
high above the horizon, surveys and beholds all things, and none of the works of 
creation, he says, can escape his notice. 
"Where chiefly Settings mingle and risings one with other." 
(Here Aratus) says that the head of this (constellation) is placed. For 
towards the west and east of the two hemispheres is situated the head of the 
Dragon, in order, he says, that nothing may escape his notice throughout the 
same quartet, either of objects in the west or those in the east, but that the 
Beast may know all things at the same time. And near the head itself of the 
Dragon is the appearance of a man, conspicuous by means of the stars, which 
Aratus styles a wearied image, and like one oppressed with labour, and he is 
denominated "Engonasis." Aratus then affirms that he does not know what this 
toil is, and what this prodigy is that revolves in heaven. The heretics, 
however, wishing by means of this account of the stars to establish their own 
doctrines, (and) with more than ordinary earnestness devoting their attention to 
these (astronomic systems), assert that Engonasis is Adam, according to the 
commandment of God as Moses declared, guarding the head of the Dragon, and the 
Dragon (guarding) his heel. For so Aratus expresses himself:- "The right-foot's 
track of the Dragon fierce possessing." 
CHAP. XLVIII.--INVENTION OF THE LYRE; ALLEGORIZING THE APPEARANCE AND 
POSITION OF THE STARS; ORIGIN OF THE PHOENICIANS; THE LOGOS IDENTIFIED BY ARATUS 
WITH THE CONSTELLATION CANIS; INFLUENCE OF CANIS ON FERTILITY AND LIFE 
GENERALLY. 
And (Aratus) says that (the constellations) Lyra and Corona have been placed 
on both sides near him,--now I mean Engonasis,--but that he bends the knee, and 
stretches forth both hands, as if making a confession of sin. And that the lyre 
is a musical instrument fashioned by Logos while still altogether an infant, and 
that Logos is the same as he who is denominated Mercury among the Greeks. And 
Aratus, with regard to the construction of the lyre, observes:- "Then, further, 
also near the cradle, 
Hermes pierced it through, and said, Call it Lyre." 
It consists of seven strings, signifying by these seven strings the entire 
harmony and construction of the world as it is melodiously constituted. For in 
six days the world was made, and (the Creator) rested on the seventh. If, then, 
says (Aratus), Adam, acknowledging (his guilt) and guarding the head of the 
Beast, according to the commandment of the Deity, will imitate Lyra, that is, 
obey the Logos of God, that is, submit to the law, he will receive Corona that 
is situated near him. If, however, he neglect his duty, he shall be hurled 
downwards in company with the Beast that lies underneath, and shall have, he 
says, his portion with the Beast. And Engonasis seems on both sides to extend 
his hands, and on one to touch Lyra, and on the other Corona--and this is his 
confession;--so that it is possible to distinguish him by means of this 
(sidereal) configuration itself. But Corona nevertheless is plotted against, and 
forcibly drawn away by another beast, a smaller Dragon, which is the offspring 
of him who is guarded by the foot of Engonasis. A man also stands firmly 
grasping with both hands, and dragging towards the space behind the Serpent from 
Corona; and he does not permit the Beast to touch Corona. though making a 
violent effort to do so. And Aratus styles him Anguitenens, because he restrains 
the impetuosity of the Serpent in his attempt to reach Corona. But Logos, he 
says, is he who, in the figure of a man, hinders the Beast from reaching Corona, 
commiserating him who is being plotted against by the Dragon and his offspring 
simultaneously. 
These (constellations), "The Bears," however, he says, are two hebdomads, 
composed of seven stars, images of two creations. For the first creation, he 
affirms, is that according to Adam in labours, this is he who is seen "on his 
knees" (Engonasis). The second creation, however, is that according to Christ, 
by which we are regenerated; and this is Anguitenens, who struggles against the 
Beast, and hinders him from reaching Corona, which is reserved for the man. But 
"The Great Bear" is, he says, Helice, symbol of a mighty world towards which the 
Greeks steer their course, that is, for which they are being disciplined. And, 
wafted by the waves of life, they follow onwards, (having in prospect) some such 
revolving world or discipline or wisdom which conducts those back that follow in 
pursuit of such a world. For the term Helice seems to signify a certain circling 
and revolution towards the same points. There is likewise a certain other "Small 
Bear" (Cynosuris), as it were some image of the second creation--that formed 
according to God. For few, he says, there are that journey by the narrow path. 
But they assert that Cynosuris is narrow, towards which Aratus says that the Si 
donians navigate. But Aratus has spoken partly of the Sidonians, (but means) the 
Phoenicians, on account of the existence of the admirable wisdom of the 
Phoenicians. The Greeks, however, assert that they are Phoenicians, who have 
migrated from (the shores of) the Red Sea into this country where they even at 
present dwell, for this is the opinion of Herodotus. Now Cynosura, he says, is 
this (lesser) Bear, the second creation; the one of limited dimensions, the 
narrow way, and not Helice. For he does not lead them back, but guides forward 
by a straight path, those that follow him being (the tail) of Canis. For Canis 
is the Logos, partly guarding and preserving the flock, that is plotted against 
by the wolves; and partly like a dog, hunting the beasts from the creation, and 
destroying them; and partly producing all things, and being what they express by 
the name "Cyon" (Canis), that is, generator. Hence it is said, Aratus has spoken 
of the rising of Canis, expressing himself thus: "When, however, Canis has 
risen, no longer do the crops miss." This is what he says: Plants that have been 
put into the earth up to the period of Canis' rising, frequently, though not 
having struck root, are yet covered with a profusion of leaves, and afford 
indications to spectators that they will be productive, and that they appear 
full of life, (though in reality) not having vitality in themselves from the 
root. But when the rising of Canis takes place, the living are separated from 
the dead by Canis; for whatsoever plants have not taken root, really undergo 
putrefaction. This Canis, therefore, he says, as being a certain divine Logos, 
has been appointed judge of quick and dead. And as (the influence of) Canis is 
observable in the vegetable productions of this world, so in plants of celestial 
growth--in men--is beheld the (power of the) Logos. 
From some such cause, then, Cynosura, the second creation, is set in the 
firmament as an image of a creation by the Logos. The Dragon, however, in the 
centre reclines between the two creations, preventing a transition of whatever 
things are from the great creation to the small creation; and in guarding those 
that are fixed in the (great) creation, as for instance Engonasis, observing (at 
the same time) how and in what manner each is constituted in the small creation. 
And (the Dragon) himself is watched at the head, he says, by Anguitenens. This 
image, he affirms, is fixed in heaven, being a certain wisdom to those capable 
of discerning it. If. however, this is obscure, by means of some other image, he 
says the creation teaches (men) to philosophize, in regard to which Aratus has 
expressed himself thus:- "Neither of Cepheus Iasidas are we the wretched brood." 

CHAP. XLIX.--SYMBOL OF THE CREATURE; AND OF SPIRIT; AND OF THE DIFFERENT 
ORDERS OF ANIMALS, 
But Aratus says, near this (constellation) is Cepheus, and Cassiepea, and 
Andromeda, and Perseus, great lineaments of the creation to those who are able 
to discern them. For he asserts that Cepheus is Adam, Cassiepea Eve, Andromeda 
the soul of both of these, Perseus the Logos, winged offspring of Jove, and 
Cetos the plotting monster. Not to any of these. but to Andromeda only does he 
repair, who slays the Beast; from whom, likewise taking unto himself Andromeda, 
who had been delivered (and) chained to the Beast, the Logos--that is, 
Perseus--achieves, be says, her liberation. Perseus, however, is the winged axle 
that. pierces both poles through the centre of the earth, and turns the world 
round. The spirit also, that which is in the world, is (symbolized by) Cycnus, a 
bird--a musical animal near "The Bears"--type of the Divine Spirit, because that 
when it approaches the end itself of life, it alone is fitted by nature to sing, 
on departing with good hope from the wicked creation, (and) offering up hymns 
unto God. But crabs, and bulls, and lions, and rams, and goats, and kids, and as 
many other beasts as have their names used for denominating the stars in the 
firmament, are, he says, images, and exemplars from which the creation, subject 
to change, obtaining (the different) species, becomes replete with animals of 
this description. 
CHAP. L.--FOLLY OF ASTROLOGY. 
Employing these accounts, (the heretics) think to deceive as many of these as 
devote themselves over-sedulously to the astrologers, from thence striving to 
construct a system of religion that is widely divergent from the thoughts of 
these (speculators). Wherefore, beloved, let us avoid the habit of admiring 
trifles, secured by which the bird (styled) the owl (is captured). For these and 
other such speculations are, (as it were), dancing, and not Truth. For neither 
do the stars yield these points of information; but men of their own accord, for 
the designation of certain stars, thus called them by names, in order that they 
might become to them easily distinguishable. For what similarity with a bear or 
lion, or kid, or waterman, or Cepheus, or Andromeda, or the spectres that have 
names given them in Hades, have the stars that are scattered over the 
firmament--for we must remember that these men, and the titles themselves, came 
into existence long after the origin of man,-- (what, I say, is in common 
between the two), that the heretics, astonished at the marvel, should thus 
strive by means of such discourses to strengthen their own opinions? 
CHAP. LI.--THE HEBDOMADARII; SYSTEM OF THE ARITHMETICIANS; PRESSED INTO THE 
SERVICE OF HERESY; INSTANCES OF, IN SIMON AND VALENTINUS; THE NATURE OF THE 
UNIVERSE DEDUCIBLE FROM THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE BRAIN. 
But since almost every heresy (that has sprung up) through the arithmetical 
art has discovered measures of hebdomads and certain projections of Aeons, each 
rending the art differently, while whatever variation prevailed was in the names 
merely; and (since) Pythagoras became the instructor of these, tint introducing 
numbers of this sort among the Greeks from Egypt, it seems expedient not to omit 
even this, but, after we have given a compendious elucidation, to approach the 
demonstration of those things that we propose to investigate. 
Arithmeticians and geometers arose, to whom especially Pythagoras first seems 
to have furnished principles. And from numbers that can continually progress ad 
infinitum by multiplication, and from figures, these derived their first 
principles, as capable of being discerned by reason alone; for a principle of 
geometry, as one may perceive, is an indivisible point. From that point, 
however, by means of the art, the generation of endless figures from the point 
is discovered. For the point being drawn into length becomes a line, after being 
thus continued, having a point for its extremity. And a line flowing out into 
breadth begets a surface, and the limits of the surface are lines; but a surface 
flowing out into breadth becomes body, And when what is solid has in this manner 
derived existence from, altogether, the smallest point, the nature of a huge 
body is constituted; and this is what Simon expresses thus: "The little will be 
great, being as a point, and the great illimitable." Now this coincides with the 
geometrical doctrine of a point. 
But of the arithmetical art, which by composition contains philosophy, number 
became a first principle, which is an indefinable and incomprehensible (entity), 
comprising in itself all the numbers that can go on ad infinitum by aggregation. 
But the first monad became a principle, according to substance, of the numbers, 
which (principle) is a male monad, pro-creating paternally all the rest of the 
numbers. Secondly, the duad is a female number, which by the arithmeticians is 
also itself denominated even. Thirdly, the triad is a male number; this also it 
has been the usual custom of arithmeticians to style odd. In addition to all 
these, the tetrad is a female number; and this same, because it is feminine, is 
likewise denominated even. All the numbers therefore, taken generically, are 
four--number, however, as regards genus, is indefinite--from which, according to 
their system, is formed the perfect number--I mean the decade. For one, two, 
three, four, become ten--as has been previously proved--if the proper 
denomination be preserved, according to substance, for each of the numbers. This 
is the sacred quaternion, according to Pythagoras, having in itself roots of an 
endless nature, that is, all other numbers; for eleven, and twelve, and the 
rest, derive the principle of generation from the ten. Of this decade--the 
perfect number--there are called four parts--number, monad, power, cube--whose 
connections and mixtures take place for the generation of increase, according to 
nature completing the productive number. For when the square is multiplied into 
itself, it becomes a biquadratic; but when the square is multiplied into a cube, 
it becomes the product of a quadratic and cube; but when a cube is multiplied 
into a cube, it becomes the product of cube multiplied by cube. 
Wherefore all the numbers are seven; so that the generation of things 
produced may be from the hebdomad--which is number, monad, power, cube, 
biquadratic, product of quadratic multiplied by cube, product of cube multiplied 
by cube. 
Of this hebdomad Simon and Valentinus, having altered the names, detailed 
marvellous stories, from thence hastily adopting a system for themselves. For 
Simon employs his denominations thus: Mind, Intelligence, Name, Voice, 
Ratiocination, Reflection; and He who stood, stands, will stand. And Valentinus 
(enumerates them thus): Mind, Truth, Word, Life, Man, Church, and the Father, 
reckoned along with these, according to the same principles as those advanced by 
the cultivators of arithmetical philosophy. And (heresiarchs) admiring, as if 
unknown to the multitude, (this philosophy, and) following it, have framed 
heterodox doctrines devised by themselves. 
Some indeed, then, attempt likewise to form the hebdomads from the medical 
(art), being astonished at the dissection of the brain, asserting that the 
substance of the universe and the power of procreation and the Godhead could be 
ascertained from the arrangement of the brain. For the brain, being the dominant 
portion of the entire body, reposes calm and unmoved, containing within itself 
the spirit. Such an account, then, is not incredible, but widely differs from 
the conclusions which these (heretics) attempt to deduce from it. For the brain, 
on being dissected, has within it what may be called a vaulted chamber. And on 
either side of this are thin membranes, which they term little wings. Now these 
are gently moved by the spirit, and in turn propel towards the cerebellum the 
spirit, which, careering through a certain blood-vessel like a reed, advances 
towards the pineal gland. And near this is situated the entrance of the 
cerebellum, which admits the current of spirit, and distributes it into what is 
styled the spinal marrow. But from them the whole frame participates in the 
spiritual energy, inasmuch as all the arteries, like a branch, are fastened on 
from this blood-vessel, the extremity of which terminates in the genital 
blood-vessels, whence all the (animal) seeds proceeding from the brain through 
the loin are secreted (in the seminal glands). The form, however, of the brain 
is like the head of a serpent, respecting which a lengthened discussion is 
maintained by the professors of knowledge, falsely so named, as we shall prove. 
Six other coupling ligaments grow out of the brain, which, traversing round the 
head, and having their termination in (the head) itself, hold bodies together; 
but the seventh (ligament) proceeds from the cerebellum to the lower parts of 
the rest of the frame, as we have declared. 
And respecting this there is an enlarged discussion, whence both Simon and 
Valentinus will be found both to have derived from this source starting-points 
for their opinions, and, though they may not acknowledge it, to be in the first 
instance liars, then heretics. Since, then, it appears that we have sufficiently 
explained these tenets likewise, and that all the reputed opinions of this 
earthly philosophy have been comprised in four books; it seems expedient to 
proceed to a consideration of the disciples of these men, nay rather, those who 
have furtively appropriated their doctrines. 
NOTE. 
[On p. 43 supra I omitted to direct attention to the desirable enlargement of 
note 3 by a reference to Homer's Hymn of Mercury and its minute description of 
the invention of the Lyre. The passage is given in Henry Nelson Coleridge's 
Introduction, etc., p. 202. The versified translation of Shelley is inimitable; 
in ottava rima, but instinct with the ethos of the original.] 


