
Hippolytus of Rome












HIPPOLYTUS OF ROME
THE REFUTATION OF ALL HERESIES 
BOOK X. 
CONTENTS 
THE following are the contents of the tenth book of the Refutation of all 
Heresies:- An Epitome of all Philosophers. 
An Epitome of all Heresies. 
And, in conclusion to all, what the Doctrine of the Truth is. 
CHAP. I.--RECAPITULATION. 
After we have, not with violence, burst through the labyrinth of heresies, 
but have unravelled (their intricacies) through a refutation merely, or, in 
other words, by the force of truth, we approach the demonstration of the truth 
itself. For then the artificial sophisms of error will be exposed in all their 
inconsistency, when we shall succeed in establishing whence it is that the 
definition of the truth has been derived. The truth has not taken its principles 
from the wisdom of the Greeks, nor borrowed its doctrines, as secret mysteries, 
from the tenets of the Egyptians, which, albeit silly, are regarded amongst them 
with religious veneration as worthy of reliance. Nor has it been formed out of 
the fallacies which enunciate the incoherent (conclusions arrived at through 
the) curiosity of the Chaldeans. Nor does the truth owe its existence to 
astonishment, through the operations of demons, for the irrational frenzy of the 
Babylonians. But its definition is constituted after the manner in which every 
true definition is, viz., as simple and unadorned. A definition such as this, 
provided it is made manifest, will of itself refute error. And although we have 
very frequently propounded demonstrations, and with sufficient fulness 
elucidated for those willing (to learn) the rule of the truth; yet even now, 
after having discussed all the opinions put forward by the Greeks and heretics, 
we have decided it not to be, at all events, unreasonable to introduce, as a 
sort of finishing stroke to the (nine) books preceding, this demonstration 
throughout the tenth book. 
CHAP. II.--SUMMARY OF THE OPINIONS OF PHILOSOPHERS. 
Having, therefore, embraced (a consideration of) the tenets of all the wise 
men among the Greeks in four books, and the doctrines propounded by the 
heresiarchs in five, we shall now exhibit the doctrine concerning the truth in 
one, having first presented in a summary the suppositions entertained severally 
by all. For the dogmatists of the Greeks, dividing philosophy into three parts, 
in this manner devised from time to time their speculative systems; some 
denominating their system Natural, and others Moral, but others Dialectical 
Philosophy. And the ancient thinkers who called their science Natural 
Philosophy, were those mentioned in book i. And the account which they furnished 
was after this mode: Some of them derived all things from one, whereas others 
from more things than one. And of those who derived all things from one, some 
derived them from what was devoid of quality, whereas others from what was 
endued with quality. And among those who derived all things from quality, some 
derived them from fire. and some from air, and some from water, and some from 
earth. And among those who derived the universe from more things than one, some 
derived it from numerable, but others from infinite quantities. And among those 
who derived all things from numerable quantities, some derived them from two, 
and others from four, and others from five, and others from six. And among those 
who derived the universe from infinite quantities, some derived entities from 
things similar to those generated, whereas others from things dissimilar. And 
among these some derived entities from things incapable of, whereas others from 
things capable of, passion. From a body devoid of quality and endued with unity, 
the 
Stoics, then, accounted for the generation of the universe. For, according to 
them, matter devoid of quality, and in all its parts susceptible of change, 
constitutes an originating principle of the universe. For, when an alteration of 
this ensues, there is generated fire, air, water, earth. The followers, however, 
of Hippasus, and Anaximander, and Thales the Milesian, are disposed to think 
that all things have been generated from one (an entity), endued with quality. 
Hippasus of Metapontum and Heraclitus the Ephesian declared the origin of things 
to be from fire, whereas Anaximander from air, but Thales from water, and 
Xenophanes from earth. "For from earth," says he, "are all things, and all 
things terminate in the earth." 
CHAP. III.--SUMMARY OF THE OPINIONS OF PHILOSOPHERS CONTINUED. 
But among those who derive all entities from more things than one, and from 
numerable quantities, the poet Homer asserts that the universe consists of two 
substances, namely earth and water; at one time expressing himself thus:- "The 
source of gods was Sea and Mother Earth." 
And on another occasion thus:- "But indeed ye all might become water and 
earth." 
And Xenophanes of Colophon seems to coincide with him, for he says:- "We all 
are sprung from water and from earth." 
Euripides, however, (derives the universe) from earth and air, as one may 
ascertain from the following assertion of his:- "Mother of all, air and earth, I 
sing." 
But Empedocles derives the universe from four principles, expressing himself 
thus:- "Four roots of all things hear thou first: 
Brilliant Jove, and life-giving Juno and Aidoneus, And Nestis, that with 
tears bedews the Mortal Font." 
Ocellus, however, the Lucanian, and Aristotle, derive the universe from five 
principles; for, along with the four elements, they have assumed the existence 
of a fifth, and (that this is) a body with a circular motion; and they say that 
from this, things celestial have their being. But the disciples of Empedocles 
supposed the generation of the universe to have proceeded from six principles. 
For in the passage where he says, "Four roots of all things hear thou first," he 
produces generation out of four principles. When, however, he subjoins,- 
"Ruinous Strife apart from these, equal in every point, And with them Friendship 
equal in length and breadth," - he also delivers six principles of the universe, 
four of them material--earth, water, fire, and air; but two of them 
formative--Friendship and Discord. The followers, however, of Anaxagoras of 
Clazomenae, and of Democritus, and of Epicurus, and multitudes of others, have 
given it as their opinion that the generation of the universe proceeds from 
infinite numbers of atoms; and we have previously made partial mention of these 
philosophers. But Anaxagoras derives the universe from things similar to those 
that are being produced; whereas the followers of Democritus and Epicurus 
derived the universe from things both dissimilar (to the entities produced), and 
devoid of passion, that is, from atoms. But the followers of Heraclides of 
Pontus, and of Asclepiades, derived the universe from things dissimilar (to the 
entities produced), and capable of passion, as if from incongruous corpuscles. 
But the disciples of Plato affirm that these entities are from three 
principles--God, and Matter, and Exemplar. He divides matter, however, into four 
principles--fire, water, earth, and air. And (he says) that God is the Creator 
of this (matter), and that Mind is its exemplar. 
CHAP. IV.--SUMMARY OF THE OPINIONS OF PHILOSOPHERS CONTINUED. 
Persuaded, then, that the principle of physiology is confessedly discovered 
to be encumbered with difficulties for all these philosophers, we ourselves also 
shall fearlessly declare concerning the examples of the truth, as to how they 
are, and as we have felt confident that they are. But we shall previously 
furnish an explanation, in the way of epitome, of the tenets of the heresiarchs, 
in order that, by our having set before our readers the tenets of all made well 
known by this (plan of treatment), we may exhibit the truth in a plain and 
familiar (form). 
CHAP. V.--THE NAASSENI. 
But since it so appears expedient, let us begin first from the public 
worshippers of the serpent. The Naasseni call the first principle of the 
universe a Man, and that the same also is a Son of Man; and they divide this man 
into three portions. For they say one part of him is rational, and another 
psychical, but a third earthly. And they style him Adamas, and suppose that the 
knowledge appertaining to him is the originating cause of the capacity of 
knowing God. And the Naassene asserts that all these rational, and psychical, 
and earthly qualities have retired into Jesus, and that through Him these three 
substances simultaneously have spoken unto the three genera of the universe. 
These allege that there are three kinds of existence--angelic, psychical, and 
earthly; and that there are three churches--angelic, psychical, and earthly; and 
that the names for these are--chosen, called, and captive. These are the heads 
of doctrine advanced by them, as far as one may briefly comprehend them. They 
affirm that James, the brother of the Lord, delivered these tenets to Mariamne, 
by such a statement belying both. 
CHAP. VI.--THE PERATAE. 
The Peratae, however, viz., Ademes the Carystian, and Euphrates the Peratic, 
say that there is some one world,--this is the denomination they use,--and 
affirming that it is divided into three parts. But of the threefold division, 
according to them, there is one principle, just like an immense fountain, 
capable of being by reason divided into infinite segments. And the first 
segment, and the one of more proximity, according to them, is the triad, and is 
called a perfect good, and a paternal magnitude. But the second portion of the 
triad is a certain multitude of, as it were, infinite powers. The third part, 
however, is formal. And the first is unbegotten; whence they expressly affirm 
that there are three Gods, three Logoi, three minds, (and) three men. For when 
the division has been accomplished, to each part of the world they assign both 
Gods, and Logoi, and men, and the rest. But from above, from uncreatedness and 
the first segment of the world, when afterwards the world had attained to its 
consummation, the Peratic affirms that there came down, in the times of Herod, a 
certain man with a threefold nature, and a threefold body, and a threefold 
power, named Christ, and that He possesses from the three parts of the world in 
Himself all the concretions and capacities of the world. And they are disposed 
to think that this is what has been declared, "in whom dwelleth all the fulness 
of the Godhead bodily." And they assert that from the two worlds situated 
above--namely, both the unbegotten one and self-begotten one--there were borne 
down into this world in which we are, germs of all sorts of powers. And (they 
say) that Christ came down from above from uncreatedness, in order that, by His 
descent, all things that have been divided into three parts may be saved. For, 
says the Peratic, the things that have been borne down from above will ascend 
through Him; and the things that have plotted against those that have been borne 
down are heedlessly rejected, and sent away to be punished. And the Peratic 
states that there are two parts which are saved--that is, those that are 
situated above--by having been separated from corruption, and that the third is 
destroyed, which he calls a formal world. These also are the tenets of the 
Peratae. 
CHAP. VII.--THE SETHIANS. 
But to the Sethians it seems that there exist three principles, which have 
been precisely defined. And each of the principles is fitted by nature for being 
able to be generated, as in a human soul every art whatsoever is developed which 
is capable of being learned. The result is the same as when a child, by being 
long conversant with a musical instrument, becomes a musician; or with geometry 
a geometrician, or with any other art, with a similar result. And the essences 
of the principles, the Sethians say, are light and darkness. And in the midst of 
these is pure spirit; and the spirit, they say, is that which is placed 
intermediate between darkness, which is below, and light, which is above. It is 
not spirit, as a current of wind or a certain gentle breeze which may be felt, 
but just as if some fragrance of ointment or incense made out of a refined 
mixture,--a power diffusing itself by some impulse of fragrance which is 
inconceivable and superior to what one can express. Since, therefore, the light 
is above and the darkness below, and the spirit is intermediate between these, 
the light, also, as a ray of sun, shines from above on the underlying darkness. 
And the fragrance of the spirit is wafted onwards, occupying an intermediate 
position, and proceeds forth, just as is diffused the odour of incense-offerings 
(laid) upon the fire. Now the power of the things divided threefold being of 
this description, the power simultaneously of the spirit and of the light is 
below, in the darkness that is situated beneath. The darkness, however, they 
say, is a horrible water, into which the light along with the spirit is 
absorbed, and thus translated into a nature of this description. The darkness 
being then endued with intelligence, and knowing that when the light has been 
removed from it the darkness continues desolate, devoid of radiance and 
splendour, power and efficiency, as well as impotent, (therefore,) by every 
effort of reflection and of reason, this makes an exertion to comprise in itself 
brilliancy, and a scintillation of light, along with the fragrance of the 
spirit. And of this they introduce the following image, expressing themselves 
thus: Just as the pupil of the eye appears dark beneath the underlying humours, 
but is illuminated by the spirit, so the darkness earnestly strives after the 
spirit, and has with itself all the powers which wish to retire and return. Now 
these are indefinitely infinite, from which, when commingled, all things are 
figured and generated like seals. For just as a seal, when brought into contact 
with wax, produces a figure, (and yet the seal) itself remains of itself what it 
was, so also the powers, by coming into communion (one with the other), form all 
the infinite kinds of animals. The Sethians assert that, therefore, from the 
primary concourse of the three principles was generated an image of the great 
seal, namely heaven and earth, having a form like a womb, possessing a navel in 
the midst. And so that the rest of the figures of all things were, like heaven 
and earth, fashioned similar to a womb. 
And the Sethians say that from the water was produced a first-begotten 
principle, namely a vehement and boisterous wind, and that it is a cause of all 
generation, which creates a sort of heat and motion in the world from the motion 
of the waters. And they maintain that this wind is fashioned like the hissing of 
a serpent into a perfect image. And on this the world gazes and hurries into 
generation, being inflamed as a womb; and from thence they are disposed to think 
that the generation of the universe has arisen. And they say that this wind 
constitutes a spirit, and that a perfect God has arisen from the fragrance of 
the waters, and that of the spirit, and from the brilliant light. And they 
affirm that mind exists after the mode of generation from a female-- (meaning by 
mind) the supernal spark--and that, having been mingled beneath with the 
compounds of body, it earnestly desires to flee away, that escaping it may 
depart and not find dissolution on account of the deficiency in the waters. 
Wherefore it is in the habit of crying aloud from the mixture of the waters, 
according to the Psalmist, as they say, "For the entire anxiety of the light 
above is, that it may deliver the spark which is below from the Father beneath," 
that is, from wind. And the Father creates heat and disturbance, and produces 
for Himself a Son, namely mind, which, as they allege, is not the peculiar 
offspring of Himself. And these heretics affirm that the Son, on beholding the 
perfect Logos of the supernal light, underwent a transformation, and in the 
shape of a serpent entered into a womb, in order that he might be able to 
recover that Mind which is the scintillation from the light. And that this is 
what has been declared, "Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery 
to be equal with God; but made Himself of no reputation, and took upon Him the 
form of a servant." And the wretched and baneful Sethians are disposed to think 
that this constitutes the servile form alluded to by the Apostle. These, then, l 
are the assertions which likewise these Sethians advance. 
CHAP. VIII.--SIMON MAGUS. 
But that very sapient fellow Simon makes his statement thus, that there is an 
indefinite power, and that this is the root of the universe. And this indefinite 
power, he says, which is fire, is in itself not anything which is simple, as the 
gross bulk of speculators maintain, when they assert that there are four 
incomposite elements, and have supposed fire, as one of these, to be 
uncompounded. Simon, on the other hand, alleges that the nature of fire is 
twofold; and one portion of this twofold (nature) he calls a something secret, 
and another (a something) manifest. And he asserts that the secret is concealed 
in the manifest parts of the fire, and that the manifest parts of the fire have 
been produced from the secret. And he says that all the parts of the fire, 
visible and invisible, have been supposed to be in possession of a capacity of 
perception. The world, therefore, he says, that is begotten, has been produced 
from the unbegotten fire. And it commenced, he says, to exist thus: The 
Unbegotten One took six primal roots of the principle of generation from the 
principle of that fire. For he maintains that these roots have been generated in 
pairs from the fire; and these he denominates Mind and Intelligence, Voice and 
Name, Ratiocination and Reflection. Anti he asserts that in the six roots, at 
the same time, resides the indefinite power, which he affirms to be Him that 
stood, stands, and will stand. And when this one has been formed into a figure, 
He will, according to this heretic, exist in the six powers substantially and 
potentially. And He will be in magnitude and perfection one and the same with 
that unbegotten and indefinite power, possessing no attribute in any respect 
more deficient than that unbegotten, and unalterable, and indefinite power. If, 
however, He who stood, stands, and will stand, continues to exist only 
potentially in the six powers, and has not assumed any definite figure, He 
becomes, says Simon, utterly evanescent, and perishes. And this takes place in 
the same manner as the grammatical or geometrical capacity, which, though it has 
been implanted in man's soul, suffers extinction when it does not obtain (the 
assistance of) a master of either of these arts, who would indoctrinate that 
soul into its principles. 
Now Simon affirms that he himself is He who stood, stands, and will stand, 
and that He is a power that is above all things. So far, then, for the opinions 
of Simon likewise. 

CHAP. IX.--VALENTINUS. 
Valentinus, however, and the adherents of this school, though they agree in 
asserting that the originating principle of the universe is the Father, still 
they are impelled into the adoption of a contrary opinion respecting Him. For 
some of them maintain that (the Father) is solitary and generative; whereas 
others hold the impossibility, (in His as in other cases,) of procreation 
without a female. They therefore add Sige as the spouse of this Father, and 
style the Father Himself Bythus. From this Father and His spouse some allege 
that there have been six projections,--viz., Nous and Aletheia, Logos and Zoe, 
Anthropos and Ecclesia,--and that this constitutes the procreative Ogdoad. And 
the Valentinians maintain that those are the first projections which have taken 
place within the limit, and have been again denominated "those within the 
Pleroma;" and the second are "those without the Pleroma"; and the third, "those 
without the Limit." Now the generation of these constitutes the Hysterema 
Acamoth. And he asserts that what has been generated from an AEon, that exists 
in the Hysterema and has been projected (beyond the Limit), is the Creator. But 
Valentinus is not disposed to affirm what is thus generated to be primal Deity, 
but speaks in detractive terms both of Him and the things made by Him. And (he 
asserts) that Christ came down from within the Pleroma for the salvation of the 
spirit who had erred. This spirit, (according to the Valentinians,) resides in 
our inner man; and they say that this inner man obtains salvation on account of 
this indwelling spirit. Valentinus, however, (to uphold the doctrine,) 
determines that the flesh is not saved, and styles it "a leathern tunic," and 
the perishable portion of man. I have (already) declared these tenets in the way 
of an epitome, inasmuch as in their systems there exists enlarged matter for 
discussion, and a variety of opinions. In this manner, then, it seems proper 
also to the school of Valentinus to propound their opinions. 
CHAP. X.--BASILIDES. 
But Basilides also himself affirms that there is a non-existent God, who, 
being non-existent, has made the non-existent world, that has been formed out of 
things that are not, by casting down a certain seed, as it were a grain of 
mustard-seed, having in itself stem, leaves, branches, and fruit. Or this seed 
is as a peacock's egg, comprising in itself the varied multitude of colours. And 
this, say the Basilidians, constitutes the seed of the world, from which all 
things have been produced. For they maintain that it comprises in itself all 
things, as it were those that as yet are non-existent, and which it has been 
predetermined to be brought into existence by the non-existent Deity. There was, 
then, he says, in the seed itself a threefold Sonship, in all respects of the 
same substance with the nonexistent God, which has been begotten from things 
that are not. And of this Sonship, divided into three parts, one portion of it 
was refined, and another gross, and another requiring purification. The refined 
portion, when first the earliest putting down of the seed was accomplished by 
the non-existent God, immediately burst forth, and ascended upwards, and 
proceeded towards the non-existent Deity. For every nature yearns after that God 
on account of the excess of His beauty, but different (creatures desire Him) 
from different causes. The more gross portion, however, still continues in the 
seed; and inasmuch as it is a certain imitative nature, it was not able to soar 
upwards, for it was more gross than the subtle part. The mare gross portion, 
however, equipped itself with the Holy Spirit, as it were with wings; for the 
Sonship, thus arrayed, shows kindness to this Spirit, and in turn receives 
kindness. The third Sonship, however, requires purification, and therefore this 
continued in the conglomeration of all germs, and this displays and receives 
kindness. And (Basilides asserts) that there is something which is called 
"world," and something else (which is called) supra-mundane; for entities are 
distributed by him into two primary divisions. And what is intermediate between 
these he calls "Conterminous Holy Spirit," and (this Spirit) has in itself the 
fragrance of the Sonship. 
From the conglomeration of all germs of the cosmical seed burnt forth and was 
begotten the Great Archon, the head of the world, an AEon of inexpressible 
beauty and size. This (Archon) having raised Himself as far as the firmament, 
supposed that there was not another above Himself. And accordingly He became 
more brilliant and powerful than all the underlying AEons, with the exception of 
the Sonship that had been left beneath, but which He was not aware was more wise 
than Himself. This one having His attention turned to the creation of the world, 
first begat a son unto Himself, superior to Himself; and this son He caused to 
sit on His own right hand, and this these Basilidians allege is the Ogdoad. The 
Great Archon Himself, then, produces the entire celestial creation. And other 
Archon ascended from (the conglomeration of) all the germs, who was greater than 
all the underlying AEon, except the Sonship that had been left behind, yet far 
inferior to the former one. And they style this second Archon a Hebdomad. He is 
Maker, and Creator, and Controller of all things that are beneath Him, and this 
Archon produced for Himself a Son more prudent and wiser than Himself. Now they 
assert that all these things exist according to the predetermination of that 
non-existent God, and that there exist also worlds and intervals that are 
infinite. And the Basilidians affirm that upon Jesus, who was born of Mary, came 
the power of the Gospel, which descended and illuminated the Son both of the 
Ogdoad and of the Hebdomad. And this tank place for the purpose of enlightening 
and distinguishing from the different orders of beings, and purifying the 
Sonship that had been left behind for conferring benefits on souls, and the 
receiving benefits in turn. And they say that themselves are sons, who are in 
the world for this cause, that by teaching they may purify souls, and along with 
the Sonship may ascend to the Father above, from whom proceeded the first 
Sonship. And they allege that the world endures until the period when all souls 
may have repaired thither along with the Sonship. These, however, are the 
opinions which Basilides, who detailed them as prodigies, is not ashamed to 
advance. 
CHAP. XI.--JUSTINUS. 
But Justinus also himself attempted to establish similar opinions with these, 
and expresses himself thus: That there are three unbegotten principles of the 
universe, two males and one female. And of the males one principle is 
denominated "Goody Now this alone is called after this mode, and is endued with 
a foreknowledge of the universe. And the other is Father of all generated 
entities, and is devoid of foreknowledge, and unknown, and invisible, and is 
called Elohim. The female principle is devoid of foreknowledge, passionate, with 
two minds, and with two booties, as we have minutely detailed in the previous 
discourses concerning this heretic's system. This female principle, in her upper 
parts, as far as the groin, is, the Justinians say, a virgin, whereas from the 
groin downwards a snake. And such is denominated Edem and Israel. This heretic 
alleges that these are the principles of the universe, from which all things 
have been produced. And he asserts that Elohim, without foreknowledge, passed 
into inordinate desire for the half virgin, and that having had intercourse with 
her, he begot twelve angels; and the names of these he states to be those 
already given. And of these the paternal ones are connected with the father, and 
the maternal with the mother. And Justinus maintains that these are (the trees 
of Paradise), concerning which Moses has spoken in an allegorical sense the 
things written in the law. And Justinus u affirms that all things were made by 
Elohim and Edem. And (he says) that animals, with a the rest of the creatures of 
this kind, are from the a part resembling a beast, whereas man from the parts 
above the groin. And Edem (is supposed by Justinus) to have deposited in man 
himself the soul, which was her own power, (but Elohim the spirit.) And Justinus 
alleges that this Elohim, after having learned his origin, ascended to the Good 
Being, and deserted Edem. And this heretic asserts that Edem, enraged on account 
of such (treatment), concocted all this plot against the spirit of Elohim which 
he deposited in man. And (Justinus informs us) that for this reason the Father 
sent Baruch, and issued directions to the prophets, in order that the spirit of 
Elohim might be delivered, and that all might be seduced away from Edem. But 
(this heretic) alleges that even Hercules was a prophet, and that he was worsted 
by Omphale, that is, by Babel; and the Justinians call the latter Venus. And 
(they say) that afterwards, in the days of Herod, Jesus was born son of Mary and 
Joseph, to whom he alleges Baruch had spoken. And (Justinus asserts) that Edem 
plotted against this (Jesus), but could not deceive him; and for this reason, 
that she caused him to be crucified. And the spirit of Jesus, (says Justinus,) 
ascended to the Good Being. And (the Justinians maintain) that the spirits of 
all who thus obey those silly and futile discourses will be saved, and that the 
body and soul of Edem have been left behind. But the foolish Justinus calls this 
(Edem) Earth. 
CHAP. XII.--THE DOCETAE. 
Now the Docetae advance assertions of this description: that the primal Deity 
is as a seed of the fig-tree; and that from this proceeded three AEons as the 
stem, and the leaves and the fruit; and that these projected thirty AEons, each 
(of them) ten; and that they were all united in decades, but differed only in 
positions, as some were before others. And (the Docetae assert) that infinite 
AEons were indefinitely projected, and that all these were hermaphrodites. And 
(they say) that these AEons formed a design of simultaneously going together 
into one AEon, and that from this the intermediate AEon and from the Virgin Mary 
they begot a Saviour of all. And this Redeemer was like in every respect to the 
first seed of the fig-tree, but inferior in this respect, from the fact of His 
having been begotten; for the seed whence the fig-tree springs is unbegotten. 
This, then, was the great light of the AEons--it was entirely radiance--which 
receives no adornment, and comprises in itself the forms of all animals. And the 
Docetae maintain that this light, on proceeding into the underlying chaos, 
afforded a cause (of existence ) to the things that were produced, and those 
actually existing, and that on coming down from above it impressed on chaos 
beneath the forms of everlasting species. For the third AEon, which had tripled 
itself, when he perceives that all his characteristic attributes were forcibly 
drawn off into the nether darkness, and not being ignorant both of the terror of 
darkness and the simplicity of light, proceeded to create heaven; and after 
having rendered firm what intervened, He separated the darkness from the light. 
As all the species of the third AEon were, he says, overcome by the darkness, 
the figure even of this AEon became a living fire, having been generated by 
light. And from this (source), they allege, was generated the Great Archon, 
regarding whom Moses converses, saying that He is a fiery Deity and Demiurge, 
who also continually alters the forms of all (AEons) into bodies. And the 
(Docetae) allege that these are the souls for whose sake the Saviour was 
begotten, and that He points out the way through which the souls will escape 
that are (now) overpowered (by darkness). And (the Docetae maintain) that Jesus 
arrayed Himself in that only-begotten power, and that for this reason He could 
not be seen by any, on account of the excessive magnitude of His glory. And they 
say that all the occurrences took place with Him as it has been written in the 
Gospels. 
CHAP. XIII.--MONOIMUS. 
But the followers of Monoimus the Arabian assert that the originating 
principle of the universe is a primal man and son of man; and that, as Moses 
states, the things that have been produced were produced not by the primal man, 
but by the Son of that primal man, yet not by the entire Son, but by part of 
Him. And (Monoimus asserts) that the Son of man is iota, which stands for ten, 
the principal number in which is (inherent) the subsistence of all number (in 
general, and) through which every number (in particular) consists, as well as 
the generation of the universe, fire, air, water, and earth. But inasmuch as 
this is one iota and one tittle, and what is perfect (emanates) from what is 
perfect, or, in other words, a tittle flows down from above, containing all 
things in itself; (therefore,) whatsoever things also the man possesses, the 
Father of the Son of man possesses likewise. Moses, therefore, says that the 
world was made in six days, that is, by six powers, out of which the world was 
made by the one tittle. For cubes, and octahedrons, and pyramids, and all 
figures similar to these, having equal superficies, out of which consist fire, 
air, water, and earth, have been produced from numbers comprehended in that 
simple tittle of the iota, which is Son of man. When, therefore, says 
(Monoimus), Moses mentions the rod's being brandished for the purpose of 
bringing the plagues upon Egypt, he alludes allegorically to the (alterations of 
the) world of iota; nor did he frame more than ten plagues. If, however, says 
he, you wish to become acquainted with the universe, search within yourself who 
is it that says, "My soul, my flesh, and my mind," and who is it that 
appropriates each one thing unto himself, as another (would do) for himself. 
Understand that this is a perfect one arising from (one that is) perfect, and 
that he considers as his own all so-called nonentities and all entities. These, 
then, are the opinions of Monoimus also. 
CHAP. XIV.--TATIAN. 
Tatian, however, similarly with Valentinus and the others, says that there 
are certain invisible AEons, and that by some one of these the world below has 
been created, and the things existing in it. And he habituates himself to a very 
cynical mode of life, and almost in nothing differs from Marcion, as 
appertaining both to his slanders, and the regulations enacted concerning 
marriage. 
CHAP. XV.--MARCION AND CERDO. 
But Marcion, of Pontus, and Cerdon, his preceptor, themselves also lay down 
that there are three principles of the universe--good, just, and matter. Some 
disciples, however, of these add a fourth, saying, good, just, evil, and matter. 
But they all affirm that the good (Being) has made nothing at all, though some 
denominate the just one likewise evil, whereas others that his only title is 
that of just. And they allege that (the just Being) made all things out of 
subjacent matter, for that he made them not well, but irrationally. For it is 
requisite that the things made should be similar to the maker; wherefore also 
they thus employ the evangelical parables, saying, "A good tree cannot bring 
forth evil fruit," and the rest of the passage. Now Marcion alleges that the 
conceptions badly devised by the (just one) himself constituted the allusion in 
this passage. And (he says) that Christ is the Son of the good Being, and was 
sent for the salvation of souls by him whom he styles the inner than. And he 
asserts that he appeared as a man though not being a man, and as incarnate 
though not being incarnate. And he maintains that his manifestation was only 
phantastic, and that he underwent neither generation nor passion except in 
appearance. And he will not allow that flesh rises again; but in affirming 
marriage to be destruction, he leads his disciples towards a very cynical life. 
And by these means he imagines that he annoys the Creator, if he should abstain 
from the things that are made or appointed by Him. 

CHAP. XVI.--APELLES. 
But Apelles, a disciple of this heretic, was displeased at the statements 
advanced by his preceptor, as we have previously declared, and by another theory 
supposed that there are four gods. And the first of these he alleges to be the 
"Good Being," whom the prophets did not know, and Christ to be His Son. And the 
second God, he affirms to be the Creator of the universe, and Him he does not 
wish to be a God. And the third God, he states to be the fiery one that was 
manifested; and the fourth to be an evil one. And Apelles calls these angels; 
and by adding (to their number) Christ likewise, he will assert Him to be a 
fifth God. But this heretic is in the habit of devoting his attention to a book 
which he calls "Revelations" of a certain Philumene, whom he considers a 
prophetess. And he affirms that Christ did not receive his flesh from the 
Virgin, but from the adjacent substance of the world. In this manner he composed 
his treatises against the law and the prophets, and attempts to abolish them as 
if they had spoken falsehoods, and had not known God. And Apelles, similarly 
with Marcion, affirms that the different sorts of flesh are destroyed. 
CHAP. XVII.--CERINTHUS. 
Cerinthus, however, himself having been trained in Egypt, determined that the 
world was not made by the first God, but by a certain angelic power. And this 
power was far separated and distant from that sovereignty which is above the 
entire circle of existence, and it knows not the God (that is) above all things. 
And he says that JeSus was not born of a virgin, but that He sprang from Joseph 
and Mary as their son, similar to the rest of men; and that He excelled in 
justice, and prudence, and understanding above all the rest of mankind. And 
Cerinthus maintains that, after Jesus' baptism, Christ came down in the form of 
a dove upon Him from the sovereignty that is above the whole circle of 
existence, and that then He proceeded to preach the unknown Father, and to work 
miracles. And he asserts that, at the conclusion of the passion, Christ flew 
away from Jesus, but that Jesus suffered, and that Christ remained incapable of 
suffering, being a spirit of the Lord. 
CHAP. XVIII.--THE EBIONAEANS. 
But the Ebionaeans assert that the world is made by the true God, and they 
speak of Christ in a similar manner with Cerinthus. They live, however, in all 
respects according to the law of Moses, alleging that they are thus justified. 
CHAP. XIX.--THEODOTUS. 
But Theodotus of Byzantium introduced a heresy of the following description, 
alleging that all things were created by the true God; whereas that Christ, he 
states, in a manner similar to that advocated by the Gnostics already mentioned, 
made His appearance according to some mode of this description. And Theodotus 
affirms that Christ is a man of a kindred nature with all men, but that He 
surpasses them in this respect, that, according to the counsel of God, He had 
been born of a virgin, and the Holy Ghost had overshadowed His mother. This 
heretic, however, maintained that Jesus had not assumed flesh in the womb of the 
Virgin, but that afterwards Christ descended upon Jesus at His baptism in form 
of a dove. And from this circumstance, the lowers of Theodotus affirm that at 
first miraculous powers did not acquire operating energy in Saviour Himself. 
Theodotus, however, determines to deny the divinity of Christ. Now, opinions of 
this description were advaned by Theodotus. 
CHAP. XX.--MELCHISEDECIANS. 
And others also make all their assertions similarly with those which have 
been already specified, introducing one only alteration, viz., in respect of 
regarding Melchisedec as a certain power. But they allege that Melchisedec 
himself is superior to all powers; and according to his image, they are desirous 
of maintaining that Christ likewise is generated. 
CHAP. XXI.--THE PHRYGIANS OR MONTANISTS. 
The Phrygians, however, derive the principles of their heresy from a certain 
Montanus, and Priscilla, and Maximilla, and regard these wretched women as 
prophetesses, and Montanus as a prophet. In respect, however, of what appertains 
to the origin and creation of the universe, the Phrygians are supposed to 
express themselves correctly; while in the tenets which they enunciate 
respecting Christ, they have not irrelevantly formed their opinions. But they 
are seduced into error in common with the heretics previously alluded to, and 
devote their attention to the discourses of these above the Gospels, thus laying 
down regulations concerning novel and strange fasts. 
CHAP. XXII.--THE PHRYGIANS OR MONTANISTS 
CONTINUED. 
But others of them, being attached to the heresy of the Noetians, entertain 
similar opin ions to those relating to the silly women of the Phrygians, and to 
Montanus. As regards, however, the truths appertaining to the Father of the 
entire of existing things, they are guilty of blasphemy, because they assert 
that He is Son and Father, visible and invisible, begotten and unbegotten, 
mortal and immortal. These have taken occasion from a certain Noetus to put 
forward their heresy. 
CHAP. XXIII.--NOETUS AND CALLISTUS. 
But in like manner, also, Noetus, being by birth a native of Smyrna, and a 
fellow addicted to reckless babbling, as well as crafty withal, introduced 
(among us) this heresy which originated from one Epigonus. It reached Rome, and 
was adopted by Cleomenes, and so has continued to this day among his successors. 
Noetus asserts that there is one Father and God of the universe, and that He 
made all things, and was imperceptible to those that exist when He might so 
desire. Noetus maintained that the Father then appeared when He wished; and He 
is invisible when He is not seen, but visible when He is seen. And this heretic 
also alleges that the Father is unbegotten when He is not generated, but 
begotten when He is born of a virgin; as also that He is not subject to 
suffering, and is immortal when He does not suffer or die. When, however, His 
passion came upon Him, Noetus allows that the Father suffers and dies. And the 
Noetians suppose that this Father Himself is called Son, (and vice versa,) in 
reference to the events which at their own proper periods happen to them 
severally. 
Callistus corroborated the heresy of these Noetians, but we have already 
carefully explained the details of his life. And Callistus himself produced 
likewise a heresy, and derived its starting-points from these Noetians,--namely, 
so far as he acknowledges that there is one Father and God, viz., the Creator of 
the universe, and that this (God) is spoken of, and called by the name of Son, 
yet that in substance He is one Spirit. For Spirit, as the Deity, is, he says, 
not any being different from the Logos, or the Logos from the Deity; therefore 
this one person, (according to Callistus,) is divided nominally, but 
substantially not so. He supposes this one Logos to be God, and affirms that 
there was in the ease of the Word an incarnation. And he is disposed (to 
maintain), that He who was seen in the flesh and was crucified is Son, but that 
the Father it is who dwells in Him. Callistus thus at one time branches off into 
the opinion of Noetus, but at another into that of Theodotus, and holds no sure 
doctrine. These, then, are the opinions of Callistus. 
CHAP. XXIV.--HERMOGENES. 
But one Hermogenes himself also being desirous of saying something, asserted 
that God made all things out of matter coeval with Himself, and subject to His 
design. For Hermogenes held it to be an impossibility that God should make the 
things that were made, except out of existent things. 
CHAP. XXV.--THE ELCHASAITES. 
But certain others, introducing as it were some novel tenet, appropriated 
parts of their system from all heresies, and procured a strange volume, which 
bore on the titlepage the name of one Elchasai. These, in like manner, 
acknowledge that the principles of the universe were originated by the Deity. 
They do not, however, confess that there is but one Christ, but that there is 
one that is superior to the rest, and that He is transfused into many bodies 
frequently, and was now in Jesus. And, in like manner, these heretics maintain 
that at one time Christ was begotten of God, and at another time became the 
Spirit, and at another time was born of a virgin, and at another time not so. 
And they affirm that likewise this Jesus afterwards was continually being 
transfused into bodies, and was manifested in many (different bodies) at 
different times. And they resort to incantations and baptisms in their 
confession of elements. And they occupy themselves with bustling activity in 
regard of astrological and mathematical science, and of the arts of sorcery. 
But also they allege themselves to have powers of prescience. 
CHAP. XXVI.--JEWISH CHRONOLOGY. 
. . . From Haran, a city of Mesopotamia, (Abraham, by the com,and) of God, 
transfers his residence into the country which is now called Palestine and 
Judea, but then the region of Canaan. Now, concerning this territory, we have in 
part, but still not negligently, rendered an account in other discourses. From 
the circumstance, then, (of this migration) is traceable the beginning of an 
increase (of population) in 
Judea, which obtained its name from Judah, fourth son of Jacob, whose name 
was also called Israel, from the fact that a race of kings would be descended 
from him. Abraham removes from Mesopotamia (when 75 years old, and) when 100 
years old he begat Isaac. But Isaac, when 60 years of age, begat Jacob. And 
Jacob, when 86 years old, begat Levi; and Levi, at 40 years of age, begat Caath; 
and Caath was four years of age when he went down with Jacob into Egypt. 
Therefore the entire period during which Abraham sojourned, and the entire 
family descended from him by Isaac, in the country then called Canaanitis, was 
215 years. But the father of this Abraham is Thare, and of this Thare the father 
is Nachor, and of this Nachor the father is Serag, and of this Serag the father 
is Reu, and of this Reu the father is Peleg, and of this Peleg the father is 
Heber. And so it comes to pass that the Jews are denominated by the name of 
Hebrews. In the time of Phaleg, however, arose the dispersion of nations. Now 
these nations were 72, corresponding with the number of Abraham's children. And 
the names of these nations we have likewise set down in other books, not even 
omitting this point in its own proper place. And the reason of our particularity 
is our desire to manifest to those who are of a studious disposition the love 
which we cherish towards the Divinity, and the indubitable knowledge respecting 
the Truth, which in the course of our labours we have acquired possession of. 
But of this Heber the father is Salah; and of this Salah the father is Cainan; 
and of this Cainan the father is Arphaxad, whose father is Shem; and of this 
Shem the father is Noah. And in Noah's time there occurred a flood throughout 
the entire world, which neither Egyptians, nor Chaldeans, nor Greeks recollect; 
for the inundations which took place in the age of Ogyges and Deucalion 
prevailed only in the localities where these dwelt. There are, then, in the case 
of these (patriarchs--that is, from Noah to Heber inclusive)--5 generations, and 
495 years. This Noah, inasmuch as he was a most religious and God-loving man, 
alone, with wife and children, and the three wives of these, escaped the flood 
that ensued. And he owed his preservation to an ark; and both the dimensions and 
relics of this ark are, as we have explained, shown to this day in the mountains 
called Ararat, which are situated in the direction of the country of the 
Adiabeni. It is then possible for those who are disposed to investigate the 
subject industriously, to perceive how clearly has been demonstrated the 
existence of a nation of worshippers of the true God, more ancient than all the 
Chaldeans, Egyptians, and Greeks. What necessity, however, is there at present 
to specify those who, anterior to Noah, were both devout men, and permitted to 
hold converse with the true God, inasmuch as, so far as the subject taken in 
hand is concerned, this testimony in regard of the antiquity of the people of 
God is sufficient? 
CHAP. XXVII.--JEWISH CHRONOLOGY CONTINUED. 
But since it does not seem irrational to prove that these nations that had 
their attention engrossed with the speculations of philosophy are of more modern 
date than those that had habitually worshipped the true God, it is reasonable 
that we should state both whence the family of these latter originated; and that 
when they took up their abode in these countries, they did not receive a name 
from the actual localities, but claimed for themselves names from those who were 
primarily born, and had inhabited these. Noah had three sons--Shem, Ham, and 
Japheth. From these the entire family of man was multiplied, and every quarter 
of the earth owes its inhabitants in the first instance to these. For the word 
of God to them prevailed, when the Lord said, "Be fruitful, and multiply, and 
replenish the earth." So great efficacy had that one word that from the three 
sons of Noah are begotten in the family 72 children,-- (viz.,) from Shem, 25; 
from Japheth, 15; and from Ham, 32. Unto Ham, however, these 32 children are 
born in accordance with previous declarations. And among Ham's children are: 
Canaan, from whom came the Canaanites; Mizraim, from whom the Egyptians; Cush, 
from whom the Ethiopians; and Phut, from whom the Libyans. These, according to 
the language prevalent among them, are up to the present day styled by the 
appellation of their ancestors; nay, even in the Greek tongue they are called by 
the names by which they have been now denominated. But even supposing that 
neither these localities had been previously inhabited, nor that it could be 
proved that a race of men from the beginning existed there, nevertheless these 
sons of Noah, a worshipper of God, are quite sufficient to prove the point at 
issue. For it is evident that Noah himself must have been a disciple of devout 
people, for which reason he escaped the tremendous, though transient, threat of 
water. 
How, then, should not the worshippers of the true God be of greater antiquity 
than all Chaldeans, Egyptians, and Greeks, for we must bear in mind that the 
father of these Gentiles was born from this Japheth, and received the name 
Javan, and became the progenitor of Greeks and Ionians? Now, if the nations that 
devoted themselves to questions concerning philosophy are shown to belong to a 
period altogether more recent than the race of the worshippers of God as well as 
the time of the deluge, how would not the nations of the barbarians, and as many 
tribes as in the world are known and unknown, appear to belong to a more modern 
epoch than these? Therefore ye Greeks, Egyptians, Chaldeans, and the entire race 
of men, become adepts in this doctrine, and learn from us, who are the friends 
of God, what the nature of God is, and what His well-arranged creation. And we 
have cultivated this system, not expressing ourselves in mere pompous language, 
but executing our treatises in terms that prove our knowledge of truth and our 
practice of good sense, our object being the demonstration of His Truth. 
CHAP. XXVIII.--THE DOCTRINE OF THE TRUTH. 
The first and only (one God), both Creator and Lord of all, had nothing 
coeval with Himself; not infinite chaos, nor measureless water, nor solid earth, 
nor dense air, not warm fire, nor refined spirit, nor the azure canopy of the 
stupendous firmament. But He was One, alone in Himself. By an exercise of His 
will He created things that are, which antecedently had no existence, except 
that He willed to make them. For He is fully acquainted with whatever is about 
to take place, for foreknowledge also is present to Him. The different 
principles, however, of what will come into existence, He first fabricated, 
viz., fire and spirit, water and earth, from which diverse elements He proceeded 
to form His own creation. And some objects He formed of one essence, but others 
He compounded from two, and others from three, and others from four. And those 
formed of one substance were immortal, for in their case dissolution does not 
follow, for what is one will never be dissolved. Those, on the other hand, which 
are formed out of two, or three, or four substances, are dissoluble; wherefore 
also are they named mortal. For this has been denominated death; namely, the 
dissolution of substances connected. I now therefore think that I have 
sufficiently answered those endued with a sound mind, who, if they are desirous 
of additional instruction, and are disposed accurately to investigate the 
substances of these things, and the causes of the entire creation, will become 
acquainted with these points should they peruse a work of ours comprised (under 
the title), Concerning the Substance of the Universe. I consider, however, that 
at present it is enough to elucidate those causes of which the Greeks, not being 
aware, glorified, in pompous phraseology, the parts of creation, while they 
remained ignorant of the Creator. And from these the heresiarchs have taken 
occasion, and have transformed the statements previously made by those Greeks 
into similar doctrines, and thus have framed ridiculous heresies. 
CHAP. XXIX.--THE DOCTRINE OF THE TRUTH 
CONTINUED. 
Therefore this solitary and supreme Deity, by an exercise of reflection, 
brought forth the Logos first; not the word in the sense of being articulated by 
voice, but as a ratiocination of the universe, conceived and residing in the 
divine mind. Him alone He produced from existing things; for the Father Himself 
constituted existence, and the being born from Him was the cause of all things 
that are produced. The Logos was in the Father Himself, bearing the will of His 
progenitor, and not being unacquainted with the mind of the Father. For 
simultaneously with His procession from His Progenitor, inasmuch as He is this 
Progenitors first-born, He has, as a voice in Himself, the ideas conceived in 
the Father. And so it was, that when the Father ordered the world to come into 
existence, the Logos one by one completed each object of creation, thus pleasing 
God. And some things which multiply by generation He formed male and female; but 
whatsoever beings were designed for service and ministration He made either 
male, or not requiring females, or neither male nor female. For even the primary 
substances of these, which were formed out of nonentities, viz., fire and 
spirit, water and earth, are neither male nor female; nor could male or female 
proceed from any one of these, were it not that God, who is the source of all 
authority, wished that the Logos might render assistance in accomplishing a 
production of this kind. I confess that angels are of fire, and I maintain that 
female spirits are not present with them. And I am of opinion that sun and moon 
and stars, in like manner, are produced from fire and spirit, and are neither 
male nor female. And the will of the Creator is, that swimming and winged 
animals are from water, male and female. For so God, whose will it was, ordered 
that there should exist a moist substance, endued with productive power. And in 
like manner God commanded, that from earth should arise reptiles and beasts, as 
well males and females of all sorts of animals; for so the nature of the things 
produced admitted. For as many things as He willed, God made from time to time. 
These things He created through the Logos, it not being possible for things to 
be generated otherwise than as they were produced. But when, according as He 
willed, He also formed (objects), He called them by names, and thus notified His 
creative effort. And making these, He formed the ruler of all, and fashioned him 
out of all composite substances. The Creator did not wish to make him a god, and 
failed in His aim; nor an angel,--be not deceived,--but a man. For if He had 
willed to make thee a god, He could have done so. Thou hast the example of the 
Logos. His will, however, was, that you should be a man, and He has made thee a 
man. But if thou art desirous of also becoming a god, obey Him that has created 
thee, and resist not now, in order that, being found faithful in that which is 
small, you may be enabled to have entrusted to you also that which is great. 
The Logos alone of this God is from God himself; wherefore also the Logos is 
God, being the substance of God. Now the world was made from nothing; wherefore 
it is not God; as also because this world admits of dissolution whenever the 
Creator so wishes it. But God, who created it, did not, nor does not, make evil. 
He makes what is glorious and excellent; for He who makes it is good. Now man, 
that was brought into existence, was a creature endued with a capacity of 
self-determination, yet not possessing a sovereign intellect, nor holding sway 
over all things by reflection, and authority, and power, but a slave to his 
passions, and comprising all sorts of contrarieties in himself. But man, from 
the fact of his possessing a capacity of self-determination, brings forth what 
is evil, that is, accidentally; which evil is not consummated except you 
actually commit some piece of wickedness. For it is in regard of our desiring 
anything that is wicked, or our meditating upon it, that what is evil is so 
denominated. Evil had no existence from the beginning, but came into being 
subsequently. Since man has free will, a law has been defined for his guidance 
by the Deity, not without answering a good purpose. For if man did not possess 
the power to will and not to will, why should a law be established? For a law 
will not be laid down for an animal devoid of reason, but a bridle and a whip; 
whereas to man has been given a precept and penalty to perform, or for not 
carrying into execution what has been enjoined. For man thus constituted has a 
law been enacted by just men in primitive ages. Nearer our own day was there 
established a law, full of gravity and justice, by Moses, to whom allusion has 
been already made, a devout man, and one beloved of God. 
Now the Logos of God controls all these; the first begotten Child of the 
Father, the voice of the Dawn antecedent to the Morning Star. Afterwards just 
men were born, friends of God; and these have been styled prophets, on account 
of their foreshowing future events. And the word of prophecy was committed unto 
them, not for one age only; but also the utterances of events predicted 
throughout all generations, were vouchsafed in perfect clearness. And this, too, 
not at the time merely when seers furnished a reply to those present; but also 
events that would happen throughout all ages, have been manifested beforehand; 
because, in speaking of incidents gone by, the prophets brought them back to the 
recollection of humanity; whereas, in showing forth present occurrences, they 
endeavoured to persuade men not to be remiss; while, by foretelling future 
events, they have rendered each one of us terrified on beholding events that had 
been predicted long before, and on expecting likewise those events predicted as 
still future. Such is our faith, O all ye men,--ours, I say, who are not 
persuaded by empty expressions, nor caught away by sudden impulses of the heart, 
nor beguiled by the plausibility of eloquent discourses, yet who do not refuse 
to obey words that have been uttered by divine power. And these injunctions has 
God given to the Word. But the Word, by declaring them, promulgated the divine 
commandments, thereby turning man from disobedience, not bringing him into 
servitude by force of necessity, but summoning him to liberty through a choice 
involving spontaneity. 
This Logos the Father in the latter days sent forth, no longer to speak by a 
prophet, and not wishing that the Word, being obscurely proclaimed, should be 
made the subject of mere conjecture, but that He should be manifested, so that 
we could see Him with our own eyes. This Logos, I say, the Father sent forth, in 
order that the world, on beholding Him, might reverence Him who was delivering 
precepts not by the person of prophets, nor terrifying the soul by an angel, but 
who was Himself--He that had spoken--corporally present amongst us. This Logos 
we know to have received a body from a virgin, and to have remodelled the old 
man by a new creation. And we believe the Logos to have passed through every 
period in this life, in order that He Himself might serve as a law for every 
age, and that, by being present (amongst) us, He might exhibit His own manhood 
as an aim for all men. And that by Himself in Person He might prove that God 
made nothing evil, and that man possesses the capacity of self-determination, 
inasmuch as he is able to will and not to will, and is endued with power to do 
both. This Man we know to have been made out of the compound of our humanity. 
For if He were not of the same nature with ourselves, in vain does He ordain 
that we should imitate the Teacher. For if that Man happened to be of a 
different substance from us, why does He lay injunctions similar to those He has 
received on myself, who am born weak; and how is this the act of one that is 
good and just? In order, however, that He might not be supposed to be different 
from us, He even underwent toil, and was willing to endure hunger, and did not 
refuse to feel thirst, and sunk into the quietude of slumber. He did not protest 
against His Passion, but became obedient unto death, and manifested His 
resurrection. Now in all these acts He offered up, as the first-fruits, His own 
manhood, in order that thou, when thou art in tribulation, mayest not be 
disheartened, but, confessing thyself to be a man (of like nature with the 
Redeemer), mayest dwell in expectation of also receiving what the Father has 
granted unto this Son. 
CHAP. XXX.--THE AUTHOR'S CONCLUDING 
ADDRESS. 
Such is the true doctrine in regard of the divine nature, O ye men, Greeks 
and Barbarians, Chaldeans and Assyrians, Egyptians and Libyans, Indians and 
Ethiopians, Celts, and ye Latins, who lead armies, and all ye that inhabit 
Europe, and Asia, and Libya. And to you I am become an adviser, inasmuch as I am 
a disciple of the benevolent Logos, and hence humane, in order that you may 
hasten and by us may be taught who the true God is, and what is His well-ordered 
creation. Do not devote your attention to the fallacies of artificial 
discourses, nor the vain promises of plagiarizing heretics, but to the venerable 
simplicity of unassuming truth. And by means of this knowledge you shall escape 
the approaching threat of the fire of judgment, and the rayless scenery of 
gloomy Tartarus, where never shines a beam from the irradiating voice of the 
Word! 
You shall escape the boiling flood of hell's eternal lake of fire and the eye 
ever fixed in menacing glare of fallen angels chained in Tartarus as punishment 
for their sins; and you shall escape the worm that ceaselessly coils for food 
around the body whose scum has bred it. Now such (torments) as these shall thou 
avoid by being instructed in a knowledge of the true God. And thou shalt possess 
an immortal body, even one placed beyond the possibility of corruption, just 
like the soul. And thou shalt receive the kingdom of heaven, thou who, whilst 
thou didst sojourn in this life, didst know the Celestial King. And thou shalt 
be a companion of the Deity, and a co-heir with Christ, no longer enslaved by 
lusts or passions, and never again wasted by disease. For thou hast become God: 
for whatever sufferings thou didst undergo while being a man, these He gave to 
thee, because thou wast of mortal mould, but whatever it is consistent with God 
to impart, these God has promised to bestow upon thee, because thou hast been 
deified, and begotten unto immortality. This constitutes the import of the 
proverb, "Know thyself;" i.e., discover God within thyself, for He has formed 
thee after His own image. For with the knowledge of self is conjoined the being 
an object of God's knowledge, for thou art called by the Deity Himself. Be not 
therefore inflamed, O ye men, with enmity one towards another, nor hesitate to 
retrace with all speed your steps. For Christ is the God above all, and He has 
arranged to wash away sin from human beings, rendering regenerate the old man. 
And God called man His likeness from the beginning, and has evinced in a figure 
His love towards thee. And provided thou obeyest His solemn injunctions, and 
becomest a faithful follower of Him who is good, thou shall resemble Him, 
inasmuch as thou shall have honour conferred upon thee by Him. 
For the Deity, (by condescension,) does not diminish aught of the divinity of 
His divine perfection; having made thee even God unto His glory 


