
Hippolytus of Rome












HIPPOLYTUS OF ROME
THE REFUTATION OF ALL HERESIES 
[TRANSLATED BY THE REV. J. H. MACMAHON, M.A.] 
BOOK I. 
CONTENTS. 
THE following are the contents of the first book of The Refutation of all 
Heresies. 
We propose to furnish an account of the tenets of natural philosophers, and 
who these are, as well as the tenets of moral philosophers, and who these are; 
and thirdly, the tenets of logicians, and who these logicians are. 
Among natural philosophers may be enumerated Thales, Pythagoras, Empedocles, 
Heraclitus, Anaximander, Anaximenes, Anaxagoras, Archelaus, Parmenides, 
Leucippus, Democritus, Xenophanes, Ecphantus, Hippo. 
Among moral philosophers are Socrates, pupil of Archelaus the physicist, 
(and) Plato the pupil of Socrates. This (speculator) combined three systems of 
philosophy. 
Among logicians is Aristotle, pupil of Plato. He systematized the art of 
dialectics. Among the Stoic (logicians) were Chrysippus (and) 
Zeno. Epicurus, however, advanced an opinion almost contrary to all 
philosophers. Pyrrho was an Academic; this (speculator) taught the 
in-comprehensibility of everything. The Brahmins among the Indians, and the 
Druids among the Celts, and Hesiod (devoted themselves to philosophic pursuits). 

THE PROOEMIUM.--MOTIVES FOR UNDERTAKING THE REFUTATION; EXPOSURE OF THE 
ANCIENT MYSTERIES; PLAN OF THE WORK; COMPLETENESS OF THE REFUTATION; VALUE OF 
THE TREATISE TO FUTURE AGES. 
We must not overlook any figment devised by those denominated philosophers 
among the Greeks. For even their incoherent tenets must be received as worthy of 
credit, on account of the excessive madness of the heretics; who, from the 
observance of silence, and from concealing their own ineffable mysteries, have 
by many been supposed worshippers of God. We have likewise, on a former 
occasion, expounded the doctrines of these briefly, not illustrating them with 
any degree of minuteness, but refuting thorn in coarse digest; not having 
considered it requisite to bring to light their secret doctrines, in order that, 
when we have explained their tenets by enigmas, they, becoming ashamed, lest 
also, by our divulging their mysteries, we should convict them of atheism, might 
be induced to desist in some degree from their un reasonable opinion and their 
profane attempt. But since I perceive that they have not been abashed by our 
forbearance, and have made no account of how God is long-suffering, though 
blasphemed by them, in order that either from shame they may repent, or should 
they persevere, be justly condemned, I am forced to proceed in my intention of 
exposing those secret mysteries of theirs, which, to the initiated, with a vast 
amount of plausibility they deliver who are not accustomed first to disclose (to 
any one), till, by keeping such in suspense during a period (of necessary 
preparation), and by rendering him blasphemous towards the true God they have 
acquired complete ascendancy over him, and perceive him eagerly panting after 
the promised disclosure. And then, when they have tested him to be enslaved by 
sin, they initiate him, putting him in possession of the perfection of wicked 
things. Previously, however, they bind him with an oath neither to divulge (the 
mysteries), nor to hold communication with any person whatsoever, unless he 
first undergo similar subjection, though, when the doctrine has been simply 
delivered (to any one), there was no longer any need of an oath. For he who was 
content to submit to the necessary purgation, and so receive the perfect 
mysteries of these men, by the very act itself, as well as in reference to his 
own conscience, will feel himself sufficiently under an obligation not to 
divulge to others; for if he once disclose wickedness of this description to any 
man, he would neither be reckoned among men, nor be deemed worthy to behold the 
light, since not even irrational animals would attempt such an enormity, as we 
shall explain when we come to treat of such topics. 
Since, however, reason compels us to plunge into the very depth of narrative, 
we conceive we should not be silent, but, expounding the tenets of the several 
schools with minuteness, we shall evince reserve in nothing. Now it seems 
expedient, even at the expense of a more protracted investigation, not to shrink 
from labour; for we shall leave behind us no trifling auxiliary to human life 
against the recurrence of error, when all are made to behold, in an obvious 
light, the clandestine rites of these men, and the secret orgies which, 
retaining under their management, they deliver to the initiated only. But none 
will refute these, save the Holy Spirit bequeathed unto the Church, which the 
Apostles, having in the first instance received, have transmitted to those who 
have rightly believed. But we, as being their successors, and as participators 
in this grace, high-priesthood, and office of teaching, as well as being reputed 
guardians of the Church, must not be found deficient in vigilance, or disposed 
to suppress correct doctrine. Not even, however, labouring with every energy of 
body and soul, do we tire in our attempt adequately to render our Divine 
Benefactor a fitting return; and yet withal we do not so requite Him in a 
becoming manner, except we are not remiss in discharging the trust committed to 
us, but careful to complete the measure of our particular opportunity, and to 
impart to all without grudging whatever the Holy Ghost supplies, not only 
bringing to light, by means of our refutation, matters foreign (to our subject), 
but also whatsoever things the truth has received by the grace of the Father, 
and ministered to men. These also, illustrating by argument and creating 
testimony by letters, we shall unabashed proclaim. 
In order, then, as we have already stated, that we may prove them atheists, 
both in opinion and their mode (of treating a question) and in fact, and (in 
order to show) whence it is that their attempted theories have accrued unto 
them, and that they have endeavoured to establish their tenets, taking nothing 
from the holy Scriptures--nor is it from preserving the succession of any saint 
that they have hurried headlong into these opinion;--but that their doctrines 
have derived their origin from the wisdom of the Greeks, from the conclusions of 
those who have formed systems of philosophy, and from would-be mysteries, and 
the vagaries of astrologers,--it seems, then, advisable, in the first instance, 
by explaining the opinions advanced by the philosophers of the Greeks, to 
satisfy our readers that such are of greater antiquity than these (heresies), 
and more deserving of reverence in reference to their views respecting the 
divinity; in the next place, to compare each heresy with the system of each 
speculator, so as to show that the earliest champion of the heresy availing 
himself of these attempted theories, has turned them to advantage by 
appropriating their principles, and, impelled from these into worse, has 
constructed his own doctrine. The undertaking admittedly is full of labour, and 
(is one) requiring extended research. We shall not, however, be wanting in 
exertion; for afterwards it will be a source of joy, just like an athlete 
obtaining with much toil the crown, or a merchant after a huge swell of sea 
compassing gain, or a husbandman after sweat of brow enjoying the fruits, or a 
prophet after reproaches and insults seeing his predictions turning out true. In 
the commencement, therefore, we shall declare who first, among the Greeks, 
pointed out (the principles of) natural philosophy. For from these especially 
have they furtively taken their views who have first pro-pounded these heresies, 
as we shall subsequently prove when we come to compare them one with another. 
Assigning to each of those who take the lead among philosophers their own 
peculiar tenets, we shall publicly exhibit these heresiarchs as naked and 
unseemly. 
CHAP. I.--THALES; HIS PHYSICS AND THEOLOGY; FOUNDER OF GREEK ASTRONOMY. 
It is said that Thales of Miletus, one of the seven, wise men, first 
attempted to frame a system of natural philosophy. This person said that some 
such thing as water is the generative principle of the universe, and its 
end;--for that out of this, solidified and again dissolved, all things consist, 
and that all things are supported on it; from which also arise both earthquakes 
and changes of the winds and atmospheric movements, and that all things are both 
produced and are in a state of flux corresponding with the nature of the primary 
author of generation;--and that the Deity s is that which has neither beginning 
nor end. This person, having been occupied with an hypothesis and investigation 
concerning the stars, became the earliest author to the Greeks of this kind of 
learning. And he, looking towards heaven, alleging that he was carefully 
examining supernal objects, fell into a well; and a certain maid, by name 
Thratta, remarked of him derisively, that while intent on beholding things in 
heaven, he did not know, what was at his feet. And he lived about the time of 
Croesus. 
CHAP.II.--PYTHAGORAS; HIS COSMOGONY; RULES OF HIS SECT; DISCOVERER OF 
PHYSIOGNOMY; HIS PHILOSOPHY OF NUMBERS; HIS SYSTEM OF THE TRANSMIGRATION OF 
SOULS; ZARATAS ON DEMONS; WHY PYTHAGORAS FORBADE THE EATING OF BEANS; THE 
MODE 
OF LIVING ADOPTED BY HIS DISCIPLES. 
But there was also, not far from these times, another philosophy which 
Pythagoras originated (who some say was a native of Samos), which they have 
denominated Italian, because that Pythagoras, flying from Polycrates the king of 
Samos, took up his residence in a city of Italy, and there passed the entire of 
his remaining years. And they who received in succession his doctrine, did not 
much differ from the same opinion. And this person, instituting an investigation 
concerning natural phenomena, combined together astronomy, and geometry, and 
music. And so he proclaimed that the Deity is a monad; and carefully acquainting 
himself with the nature of number, he affirmed that the world sings, and that 
its system corresponds with harmony, and he first resolved the motion of the 
seven stars into rhythm and melody. And being astonished at the management of 
the entire fabric, he required that at first his disciples should keep silence, 
as if persons coming into the world initiated in (the secrets of) the universe; 
next, when it seemed that they were sufficiently conversant with his mode of 
teaching his doctrine, and could forcibly philosophize concerning the stars and 
nature, then, considering them pure, he enjoins them to speak. This man 
distributed his pupils in two orders, and called the one esoteric, but the other 
exoteric. And to the former he confided more advanced doctrines, and to the 
latter a more moderate amount of instruction. 
And he also touched on magic--as they say--and himself discovered an art of 
physiogony, laying down as a basis certain numbers and measures, saying that 
they comprised the principle of arithmetical philosophy by composition after 
this manner. The first number became an originating principle, which is one, 
indefinable, incomprehensible, having in itself all numbers that, according to 
plurality, can go on ad infinitum. But the primary monad became a principle of 
numbers, according to sub stance."--which is a male monad, begetting [after the 
manner of a parent all the rest of the numbers. Secondly, the duad is a female 
number, and the same also is by arithmeticians termed even. Thirdly, the triad 
is a male number. This also has been classified by arithmeti cians under the 
denomination uneven. And in addition to all these is the tetrad, a female 
number; and the same also is called even, because it is female. Therefore all 
the numbers that have been derived from the genus are four; but number is the 
indefinite genus, from which was constituted, according to them, the perfect 
number, viz., the decade. For one, two, three, four, become ten, if its proper 
denomination be preserved essentially for each of the numbers. Pythagoras 
affirmed this to be a sacred quaternion, source of everlasting nature, having, 
as it were, roots in itself; and that from this number all the numbers receive 
their originating principle. For eleven, and twelve, and the rest, partake of 
the origin of existence from ten. Of this decade, the perfect number, there are 
termed four divisions,--namely, number, monad, square, (and) cube. And the 
connections and blendings of these are performed, according to nature, for the 
generation of growth completing the productive number. For when the square 
itself is multiplied into itself, a biquadratic is the result. But when the 
square is multiplied into the cube, the result is the product of a square and 
cube; and when the cube is multiplied into the cube, the product of two cubes is 
the result. So that all the numbers from which the production of existing 
(numbers) arises, are seven,--namely, number, monad, square, cube, biquadratic, 
quadratic-cube, cubo-cube. 
This philosopher likewise said that the soul is immortal, and that it 
subsists in successive bodies. Wherefore he asserted that before the Trojan era 
he was AEthalides, and during the Trojan epoch Euphorbus, and subsequent to this 
Hermotimus of Samos, and after him Pyrrhus of Delos; fifth, Pythagoras. And 
Diodorus the Eretrian, and Aristoxenus the musician, assert that Pythagoras came 
to Zaratas the Chaldean, and that he explained to him that there are two 
original causes of things, father and mother, and that father is light, but 
mother darkness; and that of the light the parts are hot, dry, not heavy, light, 
swift; but of darkness, cold, moist, weighty, slow; and that out of all these, 
from female and male, the world consists. But the world, he says, is a musical 
harmony; wherefore, also, that the sun performs a circuit in accordance with 
harmony. And as regards the things that are produced from earth and the cosmical 
system, they maintain that Zaratas makes the following statements: that there 
are two demons, the one celestial and the other terrestrial; and that the 
terrestrial sends up a production from earth, and that this is water; and that 
the celestial is a fire, partaking of the nature of air, hot and cold. And he 
therefore affirms that none of these destroys or sullies the soul, for these 
constitute the substance of all things. And he is reported to have ordered his 
followers not to eat beans, because that Zaratas said that, at the origin and 
concretion of all things, when the earth was still undergoing its process of 
solidification, and that of putrefaction had set in, the bean was produced. And 
of this he mentions the following indication, that if any one, after having 
chewed a bean without the husk, places it opposite the sun for a certain 
period,--for this immediately will aid in the result,--it yields the smell of 
human seed. And he mentions also another clearer instance to be this: if, when 
the bean is blossoming, we take the bean and its flower, and deposit them in a 
jar, smear this over, and bury it in the ground, and after a few days uncover 
it, we shall see it wearing the appearance, first of a woman's pudendum, and 
after this, when closely examined, of the head of a child growing in along with 
it. This person, being burned along with his disciples in Croton, a town of 
Italy, perished. Anti this was a habit with him, whenever one repaired to him 
with a view of becoming his follower, (the candidate disciple was compelled) to 
sell his possessions, and lodge the money sealed with Pythagoras, and he 
continued in silence to un dergo instruction, sometimes for three, but sometimes 
for five years. And again, on being released, he was permitted to associate with 
the rest, and remained as a disciple, and took his meals along with them; if 
otherwise, however, he received back his property, and was rejected. These 
persons, then, were styled Esoteric Pythagoreans, whereas the rest, 
Pythagoristae. 
Among his followers, however, who escaped the conflagration were Lysis and 
Archippus, and the servant of Pythagoras, Zaniolxis, who also is said to have 
taught the Celtic Druids to cultivate the philosophy of Pythagoras. And they 
assert that Pythagoras learned from the Egyptians his system of numbers and 
measures; and I being struck by the plausible, fanciful, and not easily revealed 
wisdom of the priests, he himself likewise, in imitation of them, enjoined 
silence, and made his disciples lead a solitary life in underground chapels. 
CHAP. III.--EMPEDOCLES; HIS TWOFOLD CAUSE; TENET OF TRANSMIGRATION. 
But Empedocles, born after these, advanced likewise many statements 
respecting the nature of demons, to the effect that, being very numerous, they 
pass their time in managing earthly concerns. This person affirmed the 
originating principle of the universe to be discord and friendship, and that the 
intelligible fire of the monad is the Deity, and that all things consist of 
fire, and will be resolved into fire; with which opinion the Stoics likewise 
almost agree, expecting a conflagration. But most of all does he concur with the 
tenet of transition of souls from body to body, expressing himself thus:--"For 
surely both youth and maid I was, And shrub, and bird, and fish, from ocean 
stray'd." 
This (philosopher) maintained the transmutation of all souls into any 
description of animal. For Pythagoras, the instructor of these (sages), asserted 
that himself had been Euphorbus, who sewed in the expedition against Ilium, 
alleging that he recognised his shield.The foregoing are the tenets of 
Empedocles. 
CHAP. IV.--HERACLITUS; HIS UNIVERSAL DOGMATISM; HIS THEORY OF FLUX; OTHER 
SYSTEMS. 
But Heraclitus, a natural philosopher of Ephesus, surrendered himself to 
universal grief, condemning the ignorance of the entire of life, and of all men; 
nay, commiserating the (very) existence of mortals, for he asserted that he 
himself knew everything, whereas the rest of mankind nothing. But he also 
advanced statements almost in concert with Empedocles, saying that the 
originating principle of all things is discord and friendship, and that the 
Deity is a fire endued with intelligence, and that all things are borne one upon 
another, and never are at a standstill; and just as Empedocles, he affirmed that 
the entire locality about us is full of evil things, and that these evil things 
reach as far as the moon, being extended from the quarter situated around the 
earth, and that they do not advance further, inasmuch as the entire space above 
the moon is more pure. So also it seemed to Heraclitus. 
After these arose also other natural philosophers, whose opinions we have not 
deemed it necessary to declare, (inasmuch as) they present no diversity to those 
already specified. Since, however, upon the whole, a not inconsiderable school 
has sprung (from thence), and many natural philosophers subsequently have arisen 
from them, each advancing different accounts of the nature of the universe, it 
seems also to us advisable, that, explaining the philosophy that has come down 
by succession from Pythagoras, we should recur to the opinions entertained by 
those living after the time of Thales, and that, furnishing a narrative of 
these, we should approach the consideration of the ethical and logical 
philosophy which Socrates and Aristotle originated, the former ethical, and the 
latter logical. 
CHAP. V.--ANAXIMANDER; HIS THEORY OF THE INFINITE; HIS ASTRONOMIC OPINIONS; 
HIS PHYSICS. 
Anaximander, then, was the hearer of Thales. Anaximander was son of 
Praxiadas, and a native of Miletus. This man said that the originating principle 
of existing things is a certain constitution of the Infinite, out of which the 
heavens are generated, and the worlds therein; and that this principle is 
eternal and undecaying, and comprising all the worlds. And he speaks of time as 
something of limited generation, and subsistence, and destruction. This person 
declared the Infinite to be an originating principle and element of existing 
things, being the first to employ such a denomination of the originating 
principle. But, moreover, he asserted that there is an eternal motion, by the 
agency of which it happens that the heavens are generated; but that the earth is 
poised aloft, upheld by nothing, continuing on account of its equal distance 
from all (the heavenly bodies); and that the figure of it is curved, circular, 
similar to a column of stone. And one of the surfaces we tread upon, but the 
other is opposite. And that the stars are a circle of fire, separated from the 
fire which is in the vicinity of the world, and encompassed by air. And that 
certain atmospheric exhalations arise in places where the stars shine; 
wherefore, also, when these exhalations are obstructed, that eclipses take 
place. And that the moon sometimes appears frill and sometimes waning, according 
to the obstruction or opening of its (orbital) paths. But that the circle of the 
sun is twenty-seven times larger than the moon, and that the sun is situated in 
the highest (quarter of the firmament); whereas the orbs of the fixed stars in 
the lowest. And that animals are produced (in moistures) by evaporation from the 
sun. And that man was, originally, similar to a different animal, that is, a 
fish. And that winds are caused by the separation of very rarified exhalations 
of the atmosphere, and by their motion after they have been condensed. And that 
rain arises from earth's giving back (the vapours which it receives) from the 
(clouds under the sun. And that there are flashes of lightning when the wind 
coming down severs the clouds. This person was born in the third year of the 
XLII. Olympiad. 
CHAP. VI.--ANAXIMENES; HIS SYSTEM OF "AN INFINITE AIR;" HIS VIEWS OF 
ASTRONOMY AND NATURAL PHENOMENA. 
But Anaximenes, who himself was also a native of Miletus, and son of 
Eurystratus, affirmed that the originating principle is infinite air, out of 
which are generated things existing, those which have existed, and those that 
will be, as well as gods and divine (entities), and that the rest arise from the 
offspring of this. But that there is such a species of air, when it is most 
even, which is imperceptible to vision, but capable of being manifested by cold 
and heat, and moisture and motion, and that it is continually in motion; for 
that whatsoever things undergo alteration, do not change if there is not motion. 
For that it presents a different appearance according as it is condensed and 
attenuated, for when it is dissolved into what is more attenuated that fire is 
produced, and that when it is moderately condensed again into air that a cloud 
is formed from the air by virtue of the contraction; but when condensed still 
more, water, (and) that when the condensation is carried still further, earth is 
formed; and when condensed to the very highest degree, stones. Wherefore, that 
the dominant principles of generation are contraries,--namely, heat and cold. 
And that the expanded earth is wafted along upon the air, and in like manner 
both sun and moon and the rest of the stars; for all things being of the nature 
of fire, are wafted about through the expanse of space, upon the air. And that 
the stars are produced from earth by reason of the mist which arises from this 
earth; and when this is attenuated, that fire is produced, and that the stars 
consist of the fire which is being borne aloft. But also that there are 
terrestrial natures in the region of the stars carried on along with them. And 
he says that the stars do not move under the earth, as some have supposed, but 
around the earth, just as a cap is turned round our head; and that the sun is 
hid, not by being under the earth, but because covered by the higher portions of 
the earth, and on account of the greater distance that he is from us. But that 
the stars do not emit heat on account of the length of distance; and that the 
winds are produced when the condensed air, becoming rarified, is borne on; and 
that when collected and thickened still further, clouds are generated, and thus 
a change made into water. And that hail is produced when the water borne down 
from the clouds becomes congealed; and that snow is generated when these very 
clouds, being more moist, acquire congelation; and that lightning is caused when 
the clouds are parted by force of the winds; for when these are sundered there 
is produced a brilliant and fiery flash. And that a rainbow is produced by 
reason of the rays of the sun failing on the collected air. And that an 
earthquake takes place when the earth is altered into a larger (bulk) by heat 
and cold. These indeed, then, were the opinions of Anaximenes. This 
(philosopher) flourished about the first year of the LVIII. Olympiad. 
CHAP. VII.--ANAXAGORAS; HIS THEORY OF MIND; RECOGNISES AN EFFICIENT CAUSE; 
HIS COSMOGONY AND ASTRONOMY. 
After this (thinker) comes Anaxagoras, son of Hegesibulus, a native of 
Clazomenae. This person affirmed the originating principle of the universe to be 
mind and matter; mind being the efficient cause, whereas matter that which was 
being formed. For all things coming into existence simultaneously, mind 
supervening introduced order. And material principles, he says, are infinite; 
even the smaller of these are infinite. And that all things partake of motion by 
being moved by mind, and that similar bodies coalesce. And that celestial bodies 
were arranged by orbicular motion. That, therefore, what was thick and moist, 
and dark and cold, and all things heavy, came together into the centre, from the 
solidification of which earth derived support; but that the things opposite to 
these--namely, heat and brilliancy, and dryness and lightness--hurried 
impetuously into the farther portion of the atmosphere. And that the earth is in 
figure plane; and that it continues suspended aloft, by reason of its magnitude, 
and by reason of there being no vacuum, and by reason of the air, which was most 
powerful, bearing along the wafted earth. But that among moist substances on 
earth, was the sea, and the waters in it; and when these evaporated (from the 
sun), or had settled under, that the ocean was formed in this manner, as well as 
from the rivers that from time to time flow into it. 
And that the rivers also derive support from the rains and from the actual 
waters in the earth; for that this is hollow, and contains water in its caverns. 
And that the Nile is inundated in summer, by reason of the waters carried down 
into it from the snows in northern (latitudes). And that the sun and moon and 
all the stars are fiery stones, that were rolled round by the rotation of the 
atmosphere. And that beneath the stars are sun and moon, and certain invisible 
bodies that are carried along with us; and that we have no perception of the 
heat of the stars, both on account of their being so far away, and on account of 
their distance from the earth; and further, they are not to the same degree hot 
as the sun, on account of their occupying a colder situation. And that the moon, 
being lower than the sun, is nearer us. And that the sun surpasses the 
Peloponnesus in size. And that the moon has not light of its own, but from the 
sun. But that the revolution of the stars takes place under the earth. And that 
the moon is eclipsed when the earth is interposed, and occasionally also those 
(stars) that are underneath the moon. And that the sire (is eclipsed) when, at 
the beginning of the month, the moon is interposed. And that the solstices are 
caused by both sun and moon being repulsed by the air. And that the moon is 
often turned, by its not being able to make head against the cold. This person 
was the first to frame definitions regarding eclipses and illuminations. And he 
affirmed that the moon is earthy, and has in it plains and ravines. And that the 
milky way is a reflection of the light of the stars which do not derive their 
radiance from the sun; and that the stars, coursing (the firmament) as shooting 
sparks, arise out of the motion of the pole. And that winds are caused when the 
atmosphere is ratified by the sun, and by those burning orbs that advance under 
the pole, and are borne from. And that thunder and lightning are caused by heat 
falling on the clouds. And that earthquakes are produced by the air above 
falling on that under the earth; for when this is moved, that the earth also, 
being wafted by it, is shaken. And that animals originally came into existence 
in moisture, and after this one from another; and that males are procreated when 
the seed secreted from the right parts adhered to the right parts of the womb, 
and that females are born when the contrary took place. This philosopher 
flourished in the first year of the LXXXVIII. Olympiad, at which time they say 
that Plato also was born. They maintain that Anaxagoras was likewise prescient. 
CHAP. VIII.--ARCHELAUS; SYSTEM AKIN TO THAT OF ANAXAGORAS; HIS ORIGIN OF THE 
EARTH AND OF ANIMALS; OTHER SYSTEMS. 
Archelaus was by birth an Athenian, and son of Apollodorus. This person, 
similarly with Anaxagoras, asserted the mixture of matter, and enunciated his 
first principles in the same manner. This philosopher, however, held that there 
is inherent immediately in mind a certain mixture; and that the originating 
principle of motion is the mutual separation of heat and cold, and that the heat 
is moved, and that the cold remains at rest. And that the water, being 
dissolved, flows towards the centre, where the scorched air and earth are 
produced, of which the one is borne upwards and the other remains beneath. And 
that the earth is at rest, and that on this account it came into existence; and 
that it lies in the centre, being no part, so to speak, of the universe, 
delivered from the conflagration; and that from this, first in a state of 
ignition, is the nature of the stars, of which indeed the largest is the sun, 
and next to this the moon; and of the rest some less, but some greater. And he 
says that the heaven was inclined at an angle, and so that the sun diffused 
light over the earth, and made the atmosphere transparent, and the ground dry; 
for that at first it was a sea, inasmuch as it is lofty at the horizon and 
hollow in the middle. And he adduces, as an indication of the hollowness, that 
the sun does not rise and set to all at the same time, which ought to happen if 
the earth was even. And with regard to animals, he affirms that the earth, being 
originally fire in its lower part, where the heat and cold were intermingled, 
both the rest of animals made their appearance, numerous and dissimilar, all 
having the same food, being nourished from mud; and their existence was of short 
duration, but afterwards also generation from one another arose unto them; and 
men were separated from the rest (of the animal creation), and they appointed 
rulers, and laws, and arts, and cities, and the rest. And he asserts that mind 
is innate in all animals alike; for that each, according to the difference of 
their physical constitution, employed (mind), at one time slower, at another 
faster. 
Natural philosophy, then, continued from Thales until Archelaus. Socrates was 
the hearer of this (latter philosopher). There are, however, also very many 
others, introducing various opinions respecting both the divinity and the nature 
of the universe; and if we were disposed to adduce all the opinions of these, it 
would be necessary to compose a vast quantity of books. But, reminding the 
reader of those whom we especially ought--who are deserving of mention from 
their fame, and from being, so to speak, the leaders to those who have 
subsequently framed systems of philosophy, and from their supplying them with a 
starting-point towards such undertakings--let us hasten on our investigations 
towards what remains for consideration. 
CHAP. IX.--PARMENIDES; HIS THEORY OF "UNITY;" HIS ESCHATOLOGY. 
For Parmenides likewise supposes the universe to be one, both eternal and 
unbegotten, and of a spherical form. And neither did he escape the opinion of 
the great body (of speculators), affirming fire and earth to be the originating 
principles of the universe--the earth as matter, but the fire as cause, even an 
efficient one. He asserted that the world would be destroyed, but in what way he 
does not mention. The same (philosopher), however, affirmed the universe to be 
eternal, and not generated, and of spherical form and homogeneous, but not 
having a figure in itself, and immoveable and limited. 
CHAP. X.--LEUCIPPUS; HIS ATOMIC THEORY. 
But Leucippus, an associate of Zeno, did not maintain the same opinion, but 
affirms things to be infinite, and always in motion, and that generation and 
change exist continuously. And he affirms plenitude and vacuum to be elements. 
And he asserts that worlds are produced when many bodies are congregated and 
flow together from the surrounding space to a common point, so that by mutual 
contact they made substances of the same figure and similar in form come into 
connection; and when thus intertwined, there are transmutations into other 
bodies, and that created things wax and wane through necessity. But what the 
nature of necessity is, (Parmenides) did not define. 
CHAP. XI.--DEMOCRITUS; HIS DUALITY OF PRINCIPLES; HIS COSMOGONY. 
And Democritus was an acquaintance of Leucippus. Democritus, son of 
Damasippus, a native of Abdera, conferring with many gymnosophists among the 
Indians, and with priests in Egypt, and with astrologers and magi in Babylon, 
(propounded his system). Now he makes statements similarly with Leucippus 
concerning elements, viz. plenitude and vacuum, denominating plenitude entity, 
and vacuum nonentity; and this he asserted, since existing things are 
continually moved in the vacuum. And he maintained worlds to be infinite, and 
varying in bulk; and that in some there is neither sun nor moon, while in others 
that they are larger than with us, and with others more numerous. And that 
intervals between worlds are unequal; and that in one quarter of space (worlds) 
are more numerous, and in another less so; and that some of them increase in 
bulk, but that others attain their full size, while others dwindle away and that 
in one quarter they are coming into existence, whilst in another they are 
failing; and that they are destroyed by clashing one with another. And that some 
worlds are destitute of animals and plants, and every species of moisture. And 
that the earth of our world was created before that of the stars, and that the 
moon is underneath; next (to it) the sun; then the fixed stars. And that 
(neither) the planets nor these (fixed stars) possess an equal elevation. And 
that the world flourishes, until no longer it can receive anything from without. 
This (philosopher) turned all things into ridicule, as if all the concerns of 
humanity were deserving of laughter. 

CHAP. XII.--XENOPHANES; HIS SCEPTICISM; HIS NOTIONS OF GOD AND NATURE; 
BELIEVES IN A FLOOD. 
But Xenophanes, a native of Colophon, was son of Orthomenes. This man 
survived to the time of Cyrus. This (philosopher) first asserted that there is 
no possibility of comprehending anything, expressing himself thus:- "For if for 
the most part of perfection man may speak, Yet he knows it not himself, and in 
all attains surmise." 
And he affirms that nothing is generated or perishes, or is moved; and that 
the universe, being one, is beyond change. But he says that the deity is 
eternal, and one and altogether homogeneous and limited, and of a spherical 
form, and endued with perception in all parts. And that the sun exists during 
each day from a conglomeration of small sparks, and that the earth is infinite, 
and is surrounded neither by an atmosphere nor by the heaven. And that there are 
infinite suns and moons, and that all things spring from earth. This man 
affirmed that the sea is salt, on account of the many mixtures that flow into 
it. Metrodorus, however, from the fact of its being filtered through earth, 
asserts that it is on account of this that it is made salt. And Xenophanes is of 
opinion that there had been a mixture of the earth with the sea, and that in 
process of time it was disengaged from the moisture, alleging that he could 
produce such proofs as the following: that in the midst of earth, and in 
mountains, shells are discovered; and also in Syracuse he affirms was found in 
the quarries the print of a fish and of seals, and in Paros an image of a laurel 
in the bottom of a stone, and in Melita parts of all sorts of marine animals. 
And he says that these were generated when all things originally were embedded 
in mud, and that an impression of them was dried in the mud, but that all men 
had perished when the earth, being precipitated into the sea, was converted into 
mud; then, again, that it originated generation, and that this overthrow 
occurred to all worlds. 
CHAP. XIII.--ECPHANTUS; HIS SCEPTICISM; TENET OF INFINITY. 
One Ecphantus, a native of Syracuse, affirmed that it is not possible to 
attain a true knowledge of things. He defines, however, as he thinks, primary 
bodies to be indivisible, and that there are three variations of these, viz., 
bulk, figure, capacity, from which are generated the objects of sense. But that 
there is a determinable multitude of these, and that this is infinite. And that 
bodies are moved neither by weight nor by impact, but by divine power, which he 
calls mind and soul; and that of this the world is a representation; wherefore 
also it has been made in the form of a sphere by divine power. And that the 
earth in the middle of the cosmical system is moved round its own centre towards 
the east. 
CHAP. XIV.--HIPPO; HIS DUALITY OF PRINCIPLES; HIS PSYCHOLOGY. 
Hippo, a native of Rhegium, asserted as originating principles, coldness, for 
instance water, and heat, for instance fire. And that fire, when produced by 
water, subdued the power of its generator, and formed the world. And the soul, 
he said, is sometimes brain, but sometimes water; for that also the seed is that 
which appears to us to arise out of moisture, from which, he says, the soul is 
produced. 
So far, then, we think we have sufficiently adduced (the opinions of) these; 
wherefore, inasmuch as we have adequately gone in review through the tenets of 
physical speculators, it seems to remain that we now turn to Socrates and Plato, 
who gave especial preference to moral philosophy. 
CHAP. XV.--SOCRATES; HIS PHILOSOPHY REPRODUCED BY PLATO. 
Socrates, then, was a hearer of Archelaus, the natural philosopher; and he, 
reverencing the rule, "Know thyself," and having assembled a large school, had 
Plato (there), who was far superior to all his pupils. (Socrates) himself left 
no writings after him. Plato, however, taking notes of all his (lectures on) 
wisdom, established a school, combining together natural, ethical, (and) logical 
(philosophy). But the points Plato determined are these following. 

CHAP. XVI.--PLATO; THREEFOLD CLASSIFICATION OF PRINCIPLES; HIS IDEA OF GOD; 
DIFFERENT OPINIONS REGARDING HIS THEOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY; HIS ESCHATOLOGY AND 

SYSTEM OF METEMPSYCHOSIS; HIS ETHICAL DOCTRINES; NOTIONS ON THE FREE-WILL 
QUESTION. 
Plato (lays down) that there are three originating principles of the 
universe, (namely) God, and matter, and exemplar; God as the Maker and Regulator 
of this universe, and the Being who exercises providence over it; but matter, as 
that which underlies all (phenomena), which (matter) he styles both receptive 
and a nurse, out of the arrangement of which proceeded the four elements of 
which the world consists; (I mean) fire, air, earth, water, from which all the 
rest of what are denominated concrete substances, as well as animals and plants, 
have been formed. And that the exemplar, which he likewise calls ideas, is the 
intelligence of the Deity, to which, as to an image in the soul, the Deity 
attending, fabricated all things. God, he says, is both incorporeal and 
shapeless, and comprehensible by wise men solely; whereas matter is body 
potentially, but with potentiality not as yet passing into action, for being 
itself without form and without quality, by assuming forms and qualities, it 
became body. That matter, therefore, is an originating principle, and coeval 
with the Deity, and that in this respect the world is uncreated. For (Plato) 
affirms that (the world) was made out of it. And that (the attribute of) 
imperishableness necessarily belongs to (literally "follows") that which is 
uncreated. So far forth, however, as body is supposed to be compounded out of 
both many qualities and ideas, so far forth it is both created and perishable. 
But some of the followers of Plato mingled both of these, employing some such 
example as the following: That as a waggon can always continue undestroyed, 
though undergoing partial repairs from time to time, so that even the parts each 
in turn perish, yet itself remains always complete; so after this manner the 
world also, although in parts it perishes, yet the things that are removed, 
being repaired, and equivalents for them being introduced, it remains eternal. 
Some maintain that Plato asserts the Deity to be one, ingenerable and 
incorruptible, as he says in The Laws: "God, therefore, as the ancient account 
has it, possesses both the beginning, and end, and middle of all things." Thus 
he shows God to be one, on account of His having pervaded all things. Others, 
however, maintain that Plato affirms the existence of many gods indefinitely, 
when he uses these words: "God of gods, of whom I am both the Creator and 
Father." But others say that he speaks of a definite number of deities in the 
following passage: "Therefore the mighty Jupiter, wheeling his swift chariot in 
heaven;" and when he enumerates the offspring of the children of heaven and 
earth. But others assert that (Plato) constituted the gods as generable; and on 
account of their having been produced, that altogether they were subject to the 
necessity of corruption, but that on account of the will of God they are 
immortal, (maintaining this) in the passage already quoted, where, to the words, 
"God of gods, of whom I am Creator and Father," he adds, "indissoluble through 
the fiat of My will;" so that if (God) were disposed that these should be 
dissolved, they would easily be dissolved. 
And he admits natures (such as those) of demons, and says that some of them 
are good, but others worthless. And some affirm that he states the soul to be 
uncreated and immortal, when he uses the following words, "Every soul is 
immortal, for that which is always moved is immortal;" and when he demonstrates 
that the soul is self-moved, and capable of originating motion. Others, however, 
(say that Plato asserted that the soul was) created, but rendered imperishable 
through the will of God. But some (will have it that he considered the soul) a 
composite (essence), and generable and corruptible; for even he supposes that 
there is a receptacle for it, and that it possesses a luminous body, but that 
everything generated involves a necessity of corruption. Those, however, who 
assert the immortality of the soul are especially strengthened in their opinion 
by those passages (in Plato's writings), where he says, that both there are 
judgments after death, and tribunals of justice in Hades, and that the virtuous 
(souls) receive a good reward, while the wicked (ones) suitable punishment. Some 
notwithstanding assert, that he also acknowledges a transition of souls from one 
body to another, and that different souls, those that were marked out for such a 
purpose, pass into different bodies, according to the desert of each, and that 
after certain definite periods they are sent up into this world to furnish once 
more a proof of their choice. Others, however, (do not admit this to he his 
doctrine, but will have it that Plato affirms that the souls) obtain a place 
according to the desert of each; and they employ as a testimony the saying of 
his, that some good men are with Jove, and that others are ranging abroad 
(through heaven) with other gods; whereas that others are involved in eternal 
punishments, as many as during this life have committed wicked and unjust deeds. 

And people affirm that Plato says, that some things are without a mean, that 
others have a mean, that others are a mean. (For example, that) waking and 
sleep, and such like, are conditions without an intermediate state; but that 
there are things that had means, for instance virtue and vice; and there are 
means (between extremes), for instance grey between white and black, or some 
other colour. And they say, that he affirms that the things pertaining to the 
soul are absolutely alone good, but that the things pertaining to the body, and 
those external (to it), are not any longer absolutely good, but reputed 
blessings. And that frequently he names these means also, for that it is 
possible to use them both well and ill. Some virtues, therefore, he says, are 
extremes in regard of intrinsic worth, but in regard of their essential nature 
means, for nothing is more estimable than virtue. But whatever excels or falls 
short of these terminates in vice. For instance, he says that there are four 
virtues--prudence, temperance, justice, fortitude--and that on each of these is 
attendant two vices, according to excess and defect: for example, on prudence, 
recklessness according to defect, and knavery according to excess; and on 
temperance, licentiousness according to defect, stupidity according to excess; 
and on justice, foregoing a claim according to defect, unduly pressing it 
according to excess; and on fortitude, cowardice according to defect, 
foolhardiness according to excess. And that these virtues, when inherent in a 
man, render him perfect, and afford him happiness. And happiness, he says, is 
assimilation to the Deity, as far as this is possible; and that assimilation to 
God takes place when any one combines holiness and justice with prudence. For 
this he supposes the end of supreme wisdom and virtue. And he affirms that the 
virtues follow one another in turn, and are uniform, and are never antagonistic 
to each other; whereas that vices are multiform, and sometimes follow one the 
other, and sometimes are antagonistic to each other. He asserts that fate 
exists; not, to be sure, that all things are produced according to fate, but 
that there is even something in our power, as in the passages where he says, 
"The fault is his who chooses, God is blameless;" and "the following law of 
Adrasteia." And thus some (contend for his upholding) a system of fate, whereas 
others one of free-will. He asserts, however, that sins are involuntary. For 
into what is most glorious of the things in our power, which is the soul, no one 
would (deliberately) admit what is vicious, that is, transgression, but that 
from ignorance and an erroneous conception of virtue, supposing that they were 
achieving something honourable, they pass into vice. And his doctrine on this 
point is most clear in The Republic, where he says, "But again you presume to 
assert that vice is disgraceful and abhorred of God; how then, I may ask, would 
one choose such an evil thing? He, you reply, (would do so) who is worsted by 
pleasures. 
Therefore this also is involuntary, if to gain a victory be voluntary; so 
that, in every point of view, the committing an act of turpitude, reason proves 
to be involuntary." Some one, however, in opposition to this (Plato), advances 
the contrary statement, "Why then are men punished if they sin involuntary?" But 
he replies, that he himself also, as soon as possible, may be emancipated from 
vice, and undergo punishment. For that the undergoing punishment is not an evil, 
but a good thing, if it is likely to prove a purification of evils; and that the 
rest of mankind, hearing of it, may not transgress, but guard against such an 
error. (Plato, however, maintains) that the nature of evil is neither created by 
the Deity, nor possesses subsistence of itself, but that it derives existence 
from contrariety to what is good, and from attendance upon it, either by excess 
and defect, as we have previously affirmed concerning the virtues. Plato 
unquestionably then, as we have already stated, collecting together the three 
departments of universal philosophy, in this manner formed his speculative 
system. 
CHAP. XVII.--ARISTOTLE; DUALITY OF PRINCIPLES; HIS CATEGORIES; HIS 
PSYCHOLOGY; HIS ETHICAL DOCTRINES; ORIGIN OF THE EPITHET "PERIPATETIC." 
Aristotle, who was a pupil of this (Plato), reduced philosophy into an art, 
and was distinguished rather for his proficiency in logical science, supposing 
as the elements of all things substance and accident; that there is one 
substance underlying all things, but nine accidents,--namely, quantity, quality, 
relation, where, when, possession, posture, action, passion; and that substance 
is of some such description as God, man, and each of the beings that can fall 
under a similar denomination. But in regard of accidents, quality is seen in, 
for instance, white, black; and quantity, for instance two cubits, three cubits; 
and relation, for instance father, son; and where, for instance at Athens, 
Megara; and when, for instance during the tenth Olympiad; and possession, for 
instance to have acquired; and action, for instance to write, and in general to 
evince any practical powers; and posture, for instance to lie down; and passion, 
for instance to be struck. He also supposes that some things have means, but 
that others are without means, as we have declared concerning Plato likewise. 
And in most points he is in agreement with Plato, except the opinion concerning 
soul. For Plato affirms it to be immortal, but Aristotle that it involves 
permanence; and after these things, that this also vanishes in the fifth body, 
which he supposes, along with the other four (elements),--viz., fire, and earth, 
and water, and air,--to be a something more subtle (than these), of the nature 
of spirit. Plato therefore says, that the only really good things are those 
pertaining to the soul, and that they are sufficient for happiness; whereas 
Aristotle introduces a threefold classification of good things, and asserts that 
the wise man is not perfect, unless there are present to him both the good 
things of the body and those extrinsic to it. The former are beauty, strength, 
vigour of the senses, soundness; while the things extrinsic (to the body) are 
wealth, nobility, glory, power, peace, friendship. And the inner qualities of 
the soul he classifies, as it was the opinion of Plato, under prudence, 
temperance, justice, fortitude. This (philosopher) also affirms that evils arise 
according to an opposition of the things that are good, and that they exist 
beneath the quarter around the moon, but reach no farther beyond the moon; and 
that the soul of the entire world is immortal, and that the world itself is 
eternal, but that (the soul) in an individual, as we have before stated, 
vanishes (in the fifth body). This (speculator), then holding discussions in the 
Lyceum, drew up from time to time his system of philosophy; but Zeno (held his 
school) in the porch called Poecile. And the followers of Zeno obtained their 
name from the place--that is, from Stoa-- (i.e., a porch), being styled Stoics; 
whereas Aristotle's followers (were denominated) from their mode of employing 
themselves while teaching. For since they were accustomed walking about in the 
Lyceum to pursue their investigations, on this account they were called 
Peripatetics. These indeed, then, were the doctrines of Aristotle. 
CHAP. XVIII.--THE STOICS; THEIR SUPERIORITY IN LOGIC; FATALISTS; THEIR 
DOCTRINE OF CONFLAGRATIONS. 
The Stoics themselves also imparted growth to philosophy, in respect of a 
greater development of the art of syllogism, and included almost everything 
under definitions, both Chrysippus and Zeno being coincident in opinion on this 
point. And they likewise supposed God to be the one originating principle of all 
things, being a body of the utmost refinement, and that His providential care 
pervaded everything; and these speculators were positive about the existence of 
fate everywhere, employing some such example as the following: that just as a 
dog, supposing him attached to a car, if indeed he is disposed to follow, both 
is drawn, or follows voluntarily, making an exercise also of free power, in 
combination with necessity, that is, fate; but if he may not be disposed to 
follow, he will altogether be coerced to do so. And the same, of course, holds 
good in the case of men. For though not willing to follow, they will altogether 
be compelled to enter upon what has been decreed for them. (The Stoics), 
however, assert that the soul abides after death, but that it is a body, and 
that such is formed from the refrigeration of the surrounding atmosphere; 
wherefore, also, that it was called psyche (i.e., soul). And they acknowledge 
likewise, that there is a transition of souls from one body to another, that is, 
for those souls for whom this migration has been destined. And they accept the 
doctrine, that there will be a conflagration, a purification of this world, some 
say the entire of it, but others a portion, and that (the world) itself is 
undergoing partial destruction; and this all but corruption, and the generation 
from it of another world, they term purgation. And they assume the existence of 
all bodies, and that body does not pass through body, but that a refraction 
takes place, and that all things involve plenitude, and that there is no vacuum. 
The foregoing are the opinions of the Stoics also. 

CHAP. XIX.--EPICURUS; ADOPT'S THE DEMOCRITIC ATOMISM; DENIAL OF DIVINE 
PROVIDENCE; THE PRINCIPLE OF HIS ETHICAL SYSTEM. 
Epicurus, however, advanced an opinion almost contrary to all. He supposed, 
as originating principles of all things, atoms and vacuity. He considered 
vacuity as the place that would contain the things that will exist, and atoms 
the matter out of which all things could be formed; and that from the concourse 
of atoms both the Deity derived existence, and all the elements, and all things 
inherent in them, as well as animals and other (creatures); so that nothing was 
generated or existed, unless it be from atoms. And he affirmed that these atoms 
were composed of extremely small particles, in which there could not exist 
either a point or a sign, or any division; wherefore also he called them atoms. 
Acknowledging the Deity to be eternal and incorruptible, he says that God has 
providential care for nothing, and that there is no such thing at all as 
providence or fate, but that all things arc made by chance. For that the Deity 
reposed in the intermundane spaces, (as they) are thus styled by him; for 
outside the world he determined that there is a certain habitation of God, 
denominated "the intermundane spaces," and that the Deity surrendered Himself to 
pleasure, and took His ease in the midst of supreme happiness; and that neither 
has He any concerns of business, nor does He devote His attention to them. As a 
consequence on these opinions, he also propounded his theory concerning wise 
men, asserting that the end of wisdom is pleasure. Different persons, however, 
received the term "pleasure" in different acceptations; for some (among the 
Gentiles understood) the passions, but others the satisfaction resulting from 
virtue. And he concluded that the souls of men are dissolved along with their 
bodies, just as also they were produced along with them, for that they are 
blood, and that when this has gone forth or been altered, the entire man 
perishes; and in keeping with this tenet, (Epicurus maintained) that there are 
neither trials in Hades, nor tribunals of justice; so that whatsoever any one 
may commit in this life, that, provided he may escape detection, he is 
altogether beyond any liability of trial (for it in a future state). In this 
way, then, Epicurus also formed his opinions. 
CHAP. XX.--THE ACADEMICS; DIFFERENCE OF OPINION AMONG THEM. 
And another opinion of the philosophers was called that of the Academics, on 
account of those holding their discussions in the Academy, of whom the founder 
Pyrrho, from whom they were called Pyrrhonean philosophers, first introduced the 
notion of the incomprehensibility of all things, so as to (be ready to) attempt 
an argument on either side of a question, but not to assert anything for 
certain; for that there is nothing of things intelligible or sensible true, but 
that they appear to men to be so; and that all substance is in a state of flux 
and change, and never continues in the same (condition). Some followers, then, 
of the Academics say that one ought not to declare an opinion on the principle 
of anything, but simply making the attempt to give it up; whereas others 
subjoined the formulary "not rather" (this than that), saying that the fire is 
not rather fire than anything else. But they did not declare what this is, but 
what sort it is. 
CHAP. XXI.--THE BRACHMANS; THEIR MODE OF LIFE; IDEAS OF DEITY; DIFFERENT 
SORTS OF; THEIR ETHICAL NOTIONS. 
But there is also with the Indians a sect composed of those philosophizing 
among the Brachmans. They spend a contented existence, abstain both from living 
creatures and all cooked food, being satisfied with fruits; and not gathering 
these from the trees, but carrying off those that have fallen to the earth. They 
subsist upon them, drinking the water of the river Tazabena. But they pass their 
life naked, affirming that the body has been constituted a covering to the soul 
by the Deity. These affirm that God is light, not such as one sees, nor such as 
the sun and fire; but to them the Deity is discourse, not that which finds 
expression in articulate sounds, but that of the knowledge through which the 
secret mysteries of nature are perceived by the wise. And this light which they 
say is discourse, their god, they assert that the Brachmans only know on account 
of their alone rejecting all vanity of opinion which is the sours ultimate 
covering. These despise death, and always in their own peculiar language call 
God by the name which we have mentioned previously, and they send up hymns (to 
him). But neither are there women among them, nor do they beget children. But 
they who aim at a life similar to these, after they have crossed over to the 
country on the opposite side of the river, continue to reside there, returning 
no more; and these also are called Brachmans. But they do not pass their life 
similarly, for there are also in the place women, of whom those that dwell there 
are born, and in turn beget children. And this discourse which they name God 
they assert to be corporeal, and enveloped in a body outside himself, just as if 
one were wearing a sheep's skin, but that on divesting himself of body that he 
would appear clear to the eye. But the Brachmans say that there is a conflict in 
the body that surrounds them, (and they consider that the body is for them full 
of conflicts); in opposition to which, as if marshalled for battle against 
enemies, they contend, as we have already explained. And they say that all men 
are captive to their own congenital struggles, viz., sensuality and inchastity, 
gluttony, anger, joy, sorrow, concupiscence, and such like. And he who has 
reared a trophy over these, alone goes to God; wherefore the Brachmans deify 
Dandamis, to whom Alexander the Macedonian paid a visit, as one who had proved 
victorious in the bodily conflict. But they bear down on Calanus as having 
profanely withdrawn from their philosophy. But the Brachmans, putting off the 
body, like fishes jumping out of water into the pure air, behold the sun. 
CHAP. XXII.--THE DRUIDS; PROGENITORS OF THEIR 
SYSTEM. 
And the Celtic Druids investigated to the very highest point the Pythagorean 
philosophy, after Zamolxis, by birth a Thracian, a servant of Pythagoras, became 
to them the originator of this discipline. Now after the death of Pythagoras, 
Zamolxis, repairing thither, became to them the originator of this philosophy. 
The Celts esteem these as prophets and seers, on account of their foretelling to 
them certain (events), from calculations and numbers by the Pythagorean art; on 
the methods of which very art also we shall not keep silence, since also from 
these some have presumed to introduce heresies; but the Druids resort to magical 
rites likewise. 
CHAP. XXIII.--HESIOD; THE NINE MUSES; THE HESIODIC COSMOGONY; THE ANCIENT 
SPECULATORS, MATERIALISTS; DERIVATIVE CHARACTER OF THE HERESIES FROM HEATHEN 
PHILOSOPHY. 
But Hesiod the poet asserts himself also that he thus heard from the Muses 
concerning nature, and that the Muses are the daughters of Jupiter. For when for 
nine nights and days together, Jupiter, through excess of passion, had 
uninterruptedly lain with Mnemosyne, that Mnemosyne conceived in one womb those 
nine Muses, becoming pregnant with one during each night. Having then summoned 
the nine Muses from Pieria, that is, Olympus, he exhorted them to undergo 
instruction:- "How first both gods and earth were made, 
And rivers, and boundless deep, and ocean's surge, And glittering stars, and 
spacious heaven above; How they grasped the crown and shared the glory, And how 
at first they held the many-valed Olympus. 
These (truths), ye Muses, tell me of, saith he, From first, and next which of 
them first arose. 
Chaos, no doubt, the very first, arose; but next Wide-stretching Earth, ever 
the throne secure of all Immortals, who hold the peaks of white Olympus; And 
breezy Tartarus in wide earth's recess; And Love, who is most beauteous of the 
gods immortal, Chasing care away from all the gods and men, Quells in breasts 
the mind and counsel sage. 
But Erebus from Chaos and gloomy Night arose; And, in turn, from Night both 
Air and Day were born; But primal Earth, equal to self in sooth begot The stormy 
sky to veil it round on every side, Ever to be for happy gods a throne secure. 
And forth she brought the towering hills, the pleasant haunts Of nymphs who 
dwell throughout the woody heights. 
And also barren Sea begat the surge-tossed Flood, apart from luscious Love; 
but next Embracing Heaven, she Ocean bred with eddies deep, And Caeus, and 
Crius, and Hyperian, and Iapetus, And Thia, and Rhea, and Themis, and Mnemosyne, 
And gold-crowned Phoebe, and comely Tethys. 
But after these was born last the wiley Cronus, Fiercest of sons; but he 
abhorred his blooming sire, And in turn the Cyclops bred, who owned a savage 
breast." 
And all the rest of the giants from Cronus, Hesiod enumerates, and somewhere 
afterwards that Jupiter was born of Rhea. All these, then, made the foregoing 
statements in their doctrine regarding both the nature and generation of the 
universe. But all, sinking below what is divine, busied themselves concerning 
the substance of existing things, being astonished at the magnitude of creation, 
and supposing that it constituted the Deity, each speculator selecting in 
preference a different portion of the world; failing, however, to discern the 
God and maker of these. 
The opinions, therefore, of those who have attempted to frame systems of 
philosophy among the Greeks, I consider that we have sufficiently explained; and 
from these the heretics, taking occasion, have endeavoured to establish the 
tenets that will be after a short time declared. It seems, however, expedient, 
that first explaining the mystical rites and whatever imaginary doctrines some 
have laboriously framed concerning the stars, or magnitudes, to declare these; 
for heretics likewise, taking occasion from them, are considered by the 
multitude to utter prodigies. Next in order we shall elucidate the feeble 
opinions advanced by these. 

