
Hippolytus of Rome












HIPPOLYTUS OF ROME
EXPOSITORY TREATISE AGAINST THE JEWS. 
1. Now, then, incline thine ear to me, and hear my words, and give heed, thou 
Jew. Many a time dost thou boast thyself, in that thou didst condemn Jesus of 
Nazareth to death, and didst give Him vinegar and gall to drink; and thou dost 
vaunt thyself because of this. Come therefore, and let us consider together 
whether perchance thou dost not boast unrighteously, O Israel, (and) whether 
that small portion of vinegar and gall has not brought down this fearful 
threatening upon thee, (and) whether this is not the cause of thy present 
condition involved in these myriad troubles. 
2. Let him then be introduced before us who speaketh by the Holy Spirit, and 
saith truth--David the son of Jesse. He, singing a certain strain with prophetic 
reference to the true Christ, celebrated our God by the Holy Spirit, (and) 
declared clearly all that befell Him by the hands of the Jews in His passion; in 
which (strain) the Christ who humbled Himself and took unto Himself the form of 
the servant Adam, calls upon God the Father in heaven as it were in our person, 
and speaks thus in the sixty-ninth Psalm: "Save me, O God; for the waters are 
come in unto my soul. I am sunk in the mire of the abyss," that is to say, in 
the corruption of Hades, on account of the transgression in paradise; and "there 
is no substance," that is, help. "My eyes failed while I hoped (or, from my 
hoping) upon my God; when will He come and save me?" 
3. Then, in what next follows, Christ speaks, as it were, in His own person: 
"Then I restored that," says He, "which I took not away;" that is, on account of 
the sin of Adam I endured the death which was not mine by sinning. "For, O God, 
Thou knowest my foolishness; and my sins are not hid from Thee," that is, "for I 
did not sin," as He means it; and for this reason (it is added), "Let not them 
be ashamed who want to see" my resurrection on the third day, to wit, the 
apostles. "Because for Thy sake," that is, for the sake of obeying Thee, "I have 
borne reproach," namely the cross, when "they covered my face with shame," that 
is to say, the Jews; when "I became a stranger unto my brethren after the flesh, 
and an alien unto my mother's children," meaning (by the mother) the synagogue. 
"For the zeal of Thine house, Father, hath eaten me up; and the reproaches of 
them that reproached Thee are fallen on me," and of them that sacrificed to 
idols. Wherefore "they that sit in the gate spoke against me," for they 
crucified me without the gate. "And they that drink sang against me," that is, 
(they who drink wine) at the feast of the passover. "But as for me, in my prayer 
unto Thee, O Lord, I said, Father, forgive them," namely the Gentiles, because 
it is the time for favour with Gentiles. "Let not then the hurricane (of 
temptations) overwhelm me, neither let the deep (that is, Hades) swallow me up: 
for Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell (Hades); neither let the pit shut her 
mouth upon me," that is, the sepulchre. "By reason of mine enemies, deliver me," 
that the Jews may not boast, saying, Let us consume him. 
4. Now Christ prayed all this economically as man; being, however, true God. 
But, as I have already said, it was the "form of the servant" that spake and 
suffered these things. Wherefore He added, "My soul looked for reproach and 
trouble," that is, I suffered of my own will, (and) not by any compulsion. Yet 
"I waited for one to mourn with me, and there was none," for all my disciples 
forsook me and fled; and for a "comforter, and I found none." 
5. Listen with understanding, O Jew, to what the Christ says: "They gave me 
gall for my meat; and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink." And these 
things He did indeed endure from you. Hear the Holy Ghost tell you also what 
return He made to you for that little portion of vinegar. For the prophet says, 
as in the person of God, "Let their table become a snare and retribution." Of 
what retribution does He speak? Manifestly, of the misery which has now got hold 
of thee. 
6. And then hear what follows: "Let their eyes be darkened, that they see 
not." And surely ye have been darkened in the eyes of your soul with a darkness 
utter and everlasting. For now that the true light has arisen, ye wander as in 
the night, and stumble on places with no roads, and fall headlong, as having 
forsaken the way that saith, "I am the way." 
Furthermore, hear this yet more serious word: "And their back do thou bend 
always;" that means, in order that they may be slaves to the nations, not four 
hundred and thirty years as in Egypt, nor seventy as in Babylon, but bend them 
to servitude, he says, "always." In fine, then, how dost thou indulge vain 
hopes, expecting to be delivered from the misery which holdeth thee? For that is 
somewhat strange. And not unjustly has he imprecated this blindness of eyes upon 
thee. But because thou didst cover the eyes of Christ, (and thus thou didst beat 
Him, for this reason, too, bend thou thy back for servitude always. 
And whereas thou didst pour out His blood in indignation, hear what thy 
recompense shall be: "Pour out Thine indignation upon them, and let Thy wrathful 
anger take hold of them;" and, "Let their habitation be desolate," to wit, their 
celebrated temple. 
7. But why, O prophet, tell us, and for what reason, was the temple made 
desolate? Was it on account of that ancient fabrication of the calf? Was it on 
account of the idolatry of the people? Was it for the blood of the prophets? Was 
it for the adultery and fornication of Israel? By no means, he says; for in all 
these transgressions they always found pardon open to them, and benignity; but 
it was because they killed the Son of their Benefactor, for He is coeternal with 
the Father. Whence He saith, "Father, let their temple be made desolate; for 
they have persecuted Him whom Thou didst of Thine own will smite for the 
salvation of the world;" that is, they have persecuted me with a violent and 
unjust death, "and they have added to the pain of my wounds." In former time, as 
the Lover of man, I had pain on account of the straying of the Gentiles; but to 
this pain they have added another, by going also themselves astray. Wherefore 
"add iniquity to their iniquity, and tribulation to tribulation, and let them 
not enter into Thy righteousness," that is, into Thy kingdom; but "let them be 
blotted out of the book of the living, and not be written with the righteous," 
that is, with their holy fathers and patriarchs. 
8. What sayest thou to this, O Jew? It is neither Matthew nor Paul that saith 
these things, but David, thine anointed, who awards and declares these terrible 
sentences on account of Christ. And like the great Job, addressing you who speak 
against the righteous and true, he says, "Thou didst barter the Christ like a 
slave, thou didst go to Him like a robber in the garden." 
9. I produce now the prophecy of Solomon, which speaketh of Christ, and 
announces clearly and perspicuously things concerning the Jews; and those which 
not only are befalling them at the present time, but those, too, which shall 
befall them in the future age, on account of the contumacy and audacity which 
they exhibited toward the Prince of Life; for the prophet says, "The ungodly 
said, reasoning with themselves, but not aright," that is, about Christ, "Let us 
lie in wait for the righteous, because he is not for our turn, and he is clean 
contrary to our doings and words, and upbraideth us with our offending the law, 
and professeth to have knowledge of God; and he calleth himself the Child of 
God." And then he says, "He is grievous to us even to behold; for his life is 
not like other men's, and his ways are of another fashion. We are esteemed of 
him as counterfeits, and he abstaineth from our ways as from filthiness, and 
pronounceth the end of the just to be blessed." And again, listen to this, O 
Jew! None of the righteous or prophets called himself the Son of God. And 
therefore, as in the person of the Jews, solomon speaks again of this righteous 
one, who is Christ, thus: "He was made to reprove our thoughts, and he maketh 
his boast that God is his Father. Let us see, then, if his words be true, and 
let us prove what shall happen in the end of him; for if the just man be the Son 
of God, He will help him, and deliver him from the hand of his enemies. Let us 
condemn him with a shameful death, for by his own saying he shall be respected." 

10. And again David, in the Psalms, says with respect to the future age, 
"Then shall He" (namely Christ) "speak unto them in His wrath, and vex them in 
His sore displeasure." And again Solomon says concerning Christ and the Jews, 
that "when the righteous shall stand in great boldness before the face of such 
as have afflicted Him, and made no account of His words, when they see it they 
shall be troubled with terrible fear, and shall be amazed at the strangeness of 
His salvation; and they, repenting and groaning for anguish of spirit, shall say 
within themselves, This is He whom we had sometimes in derision and a proverb of 
reproach; we fools accounted His life madness, and His end to he without honour. 
How is He numbered among the children of God, and His lot is among the saints? 
Therefore have we erred from the way of truth, and the light of righteousness 
bath not shined unto us, and the sun of righteousness rose not on us. We wearied 
ourselves in the way of wickedness and destruction; we have gone through deserts 
where there lay no way: but as for the way of the Lord, we have not known it. 
What hath our pride profited us? all those things are passed away like a 
shadow." 
THE CONCLUSION IS WANTING. yyyyyy
AGAINST PLATO, ON THE CAUSE OF THE UNIVERSE. 
1. And this is the passage regarding demons. But now we must speak of Hades, 
in which the souls both of the righteous and the unrighteous are detained. Hades 
is a place in the created system, rude, a locality beneath the earth, in which 
the light of the world does not shine; and as the sun does not shine in this 
locality, there must necessarily be perpetual darkness there. This locality has 
been destined to be as it were a guard-house for souls, at which the angels are 
stationed as guards, distributing according to each one's deeds the temporary 
punishments for (different) characters. And in this locality there is a certain 
place set apart by itself, a lake of unquenchable fire, into which we suppose no 
one has ever yet been cast; for it is prepared against the day determined by 
God, in which one sentence of righteous judgment shall be justly applied to all. 
And the unrighteous, and those who believed not God, who have honoured as God 
the vain works of the hands of men, idols fashioned (by themselves), shall be 
sentenced to this endless punishment. But the righteous shall obtain the 
incorruptible and un-fading kingdom, who indeed are at present detained in 
Hades, but not in the same place with the unrighteous. For to this locality 
there is one descent, at the gate whereof we believe an archangel is stationed 
with a host. And when those who are conducted by the angels appointed unto the 
souls have passed through this gate, they do not proceed on one and the same 
way; but the righteous, being conducted in the light toward the right, and being 
hymned by the angels stationed at the place, are brought to a locality full of 
light. And there the righteous from the beginning dwell, not ruled by necessity, 
but enjoying always the contemplation of the blessings which are in their view, 
and delighting themselves with the expectation of others ever new, and deeming 
those ever better than these. And that place brings no toils to them. There, 
there is neither fierce heat, nor cold, nor thorn; but the face of the fathers 
and the righteous is seen to be always smiling, as they wait for the rest and 
eternal revival in heaven which succeed this location. And we call it by the 
name Abraham's bosom. But the unrighteous are dragged toward the left by angels 
who are ministers of punishment, and they go of their own accord no longer, but 
are dragged by force as prisoners. And the angels appointed over them send them 
along, reproaching them and threatening them with an eye of terror, forcing them 
down into the lower parts. And when they are brought there, those appointed to 
that service drag them on to the confines or hell. And those who are so near 
hear incessantly the agitation, and feel the hot smoke. And when that vision is 
so near, as they see the terrible and excessively glowing spectacle of the fire, 
they shudder in horror at the expectation of the future judgment, (as if they 
were) already feeling the power of their punishment. And again, where they see 
the place of the fathers and the righteous, they are also punished there. For a 
deep and vast abyss is set there in the midst, so that neither can any of the 
righteous in sympathy think to pass it, nor any of the unrighteous dare to cross 
it. 
2. Thus far, then, on the subject of Hades, in which the souls of all are 
detained until the time which God has determined; and then He will accomplish a 
resurrection of all, not by transferring souls into other bodies, but by raising 
the bodies themselves. And if, O Greeks, ye refuse credit to this because ye see 
these (bodies) in their dissolution, learn not to be incredulous. For if ye 
believe that the soul is originated and is made immortal by God, according to 
the opinion of Plato, in time, ye ought not to refuse to believe that God is 
able also to raise the body, which is composed of the same elements, and make it 
immortal. To be able in one thing, and to be unable in another, is a word which 
cannot be said of God. We therefore believe that the body also is raised. For if 
it become corrupt, it is not at least destroyed. For the earth receiving its 
remains preserves them, and they, becoming as it were seed, and being wrapped up 
with the richer part of earth, spring up and bloom. And that which is sown is 
sown indeed bare grain; but at the command of God the Artificer it buds, and is 
raised arrayed and glorious, but not until it has first died, and been 
dissolved, and mingled with earth. Not, therefore, without good reason do we 
believe in the resurrection of the body. Moreover, if it is dissolved in its 
season on account of the primeval transgression, and is committed to the earth 
as to a furnace, to be moulded again anew, it is not raised the same thing as it 
is now, but pure and no longer corruptible. And to every body its own proper 
soul will be given again; and the soul, being endued again with it, shall not be 
grieved, but shall rejoice together with it, abiding itself pure with it also 
pure. And as it now sojourns with it in the world righteously, and finds it in 
nothing now a traitor, it will receive it again (the body) with great joy. But 
the unrighteous will receive their bodies unchanged, and unransomed from 
suffering and disease, and unglorified, and still with all the ills in which 
they died. And whatever manner of persons they (were when they) lived without 
faith, as such they shall be faithfully judged. 
3. For all, the righteous and the unrighteous alike, shall be brought before 
God the Word. For the Father hath committed all judgment to Him; and in 
fulfilment of the Father's counsel, He cometh as Judge whom we call Christ. For 
it is not Minos and Rhadamanthys that are to judge (the world), as ye fancy, O 
Greeks, but He whom God the Father hath glorified, of whom we have spoken 
elsewhere more in particular, for the profit of those who seek the truth. He, in 
administering the righteous judgment of the Father to all, assigns to each what 
is righteous according to his works. And being present at His judicial decision, 
all, both men and angels and demons, shall utter one voice, saying, "Righteous 
is Thy judgment." Of which voice the justification will be seen in the awarding 
to each that which is just; since to those who have done well shall be assigned 
righteously eternal bliss, and to the lovers of iniquity shall be given eternal 
punishment. And the fire which is un-quenchable and without end awaits these 
latter, and a certain fiery worm which dieth not, and which does not waste the 
body, but continues bursting forth from the body with unending pain. No sleep 
will give them rest; no night will soothe them; no death will deliver them from 
punishment; no voice of interceding friends will profit them. For neither are 
the righteous seen by them any longer, nor are they worthy of remembrance. But 
the righteous will remember only the righteous deeds by which they reached the 
heavenly kingdom, in which there is neither sleep, nor pain, nor corruption, nor 
care, nor night, nor day measured by time; nor sun traversing in necessary 
course the circle of heaven, which marks the limits of seasons, or the points 
measured out for the life of man so easily read; nor moon waning or waxing, or 
inducing the changes of seasons, or moistening the earth; no burning sun, no 
changeful Bear, no Orion coming forth, no numerous wandering of stars, no 
painfully-trodden earth, no abode of paradise hard to find; no furious roaring 
of the sea, forbidding one to touch or traverse it; but this too will be readily 
passable for the righteous, although it lacks no water. There will be no heaven 
inaccessible to men, nor will the way of its ascent be one impossible to find; 
and there will be no earth unwrought, or toilsome for men, but one producing 
fruit spontaneously in beauty and order; nor will there be generation of wild 
beasts again, nor the bursting substance of other creatures. Neither with man 
will there be generation again, but the number of the righteous remains 
indefectible with the righteous angels and spirits. Ye who believe these words, 
O men, will be partakers with the righteous, and will have part in these future 
blessings, which "eye hath not seen nor ear heard, neither have entered into the 
heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love Him." To Him 
be the glory and the power, for ever and ever. Amen. yyyyyy
AGAINST THE HERESY OF ONE NOETUS. 
1. Some others are secretly introducing another doctrine, who have become 
disciples of one Noetus, who was a native of Smyrna, (and) lived not very long 
ago. This person was greatly puffed up and inflated with pride, being inspired 
by the conceit of a strange spirit. He alleged that Christ was the Father 
Himself, and that the Father Himself was born, and suffered, and died. Ye see 
what pride of heart and what a strange inflated spirit had insinuated themselves 
into him. Froth his other actions, then, the proof is already given us that he 
spoke not with a pure spirit; for he who blasphemes against the Holy Ghost is 
cast out from the holy inheritance. He alleged that he was himself Moses, and 
that Aaron was his brother. When the blessed presbyters heard this, they 
summoned him before the Church, and examined him. But he denied at first that he 
held such opinions. Afterwards, however, taking shelter among some, and having 
gathered round him some others who had embraced the same error, he wished 
thereafter to uphold his dogma openly as correct. And the blessed presbyters 
called him again before them, and examined him. But he stood out against them, 
saying, "What evil, then, am I doing in glorifying Christ?" And the presbyters 
replied to him, "We too know in truth one God; we know Christ; we know that the 
Son suffered even as He suffered, and died even as He died, and rose again on 
the third day, and is at the right hand of the Father, and cometh to judge the 
living and the dead. And these things which we have learned we allege." Then, 
after examining him, they expelled him from the Church. And he was carried to 
such a pitch of pride, that he established a school. 
2. Now they seek to exhibit the foundation for their dogma by citing the word 
in the law, "I am the God of your fathers: ye shall have no other gods beside 
me;" and again in another passage, "I am the first," He saith, "and the last; 
and beside me there is none other." Thus they say they prove that God is one. 
And then they answer in this manner: "If therefore I acknowledge Christ to be 
God, He is the Father Himself, if He is indeed God; and Christ suffered, being 
Himself God; and consequently the Father suffered, for He was the Father 
Himself." But the case stands not thus; for the Scriptures do not set forth the 
matter in this manner. But they make use also of other testimonies, and say, 
Thus it is written: "This is our God, and there shall none other be accounted of 
in comparison of Him. He hath found out all the way of knowledge, and hath given 
it unto Jacob His servant (son), and to Israel His beloved. Afterward did He 
show Himself upon earth, and conversed with men." You see, then, he says, that 
this is God, who is the only One, and who afterwards did show Himself, and 
con-versed with men." And in another place he says, "Egypt hath laboured; and 
the merchandise of Ethiopia and the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come over 
unto thee, (and they shall be slaves to thee); and they shall come after thee 
bound with manacles, and they shall fall down unto thee, because God is in thee; 
and they shall make supplication unto thee: and there is no God beside thee. For 
Thou art God, and we knew not; God of Israel, the Saviour." Do you see, he says, 
how the Scriptures proclaim one God? And as this is clearly exhibited, and these 
passages are testimonies to it, I am under necessity, he says, since one is 
acknowledged, to make this One the subject of suffering. For Christ was God, and 
suffered on account of us, being Himself the Father, that He might be able also 
to save us. And we cannot express ourselves otherwise, he says; for the apostle 
also acknowledges one God, when he says, "Whose are the fathers, (and) of whom 
as concerning the flesh Christ came, who is over all, God blessed for ever." 
8. In this way, then, they choose to set forth these things, and they make 
use only of one class of passages; just in the same one-sided manner that 
Theodotus employed when he sought to prove that Christ was a mere man. But 
neither has the one party nor the other understood the matter rightly, as the 
Scriptures themselves confute their senselessness, and attest the truth. See, 
brethren, what a rash and audacious dogma they have introduced, when they say 
without shame, the Father is Himself Christ, Himself the Son, Himself was born, 
Himself suffered, Himself raised Himself. But it is not so. The Scriptures speak 
what is right; but Noetus is of a different mind from them. Yet, though Noetus 
does not understand the truth, the Scriptures are not at once to be repudiated. 
For who will not say that there is one God? Yet he will not on that account deny 
the economy (i.e., the number and disposition of persons in the Trinity). The 
proper way, therefore, to deal with the question is first of all to refute the 
interpretation put upon these passages by these men, and then to explain their 
real meaning. For it is right, in the first place, to expound the truth that the 
Father is one God, "of whom is every family," "by whom are all things, of whom 
are all things, and we in Him." 
4. Let us, as I said, see how he is confuted, and then let us set forth the 
truth. Now he quotes the words, "Egypt has laboured, and the merchandise of 
Ethiopia and the Sabeans," and so forth on to the words, "For Thou art the God 
of Israel, the Saviour." And these words he cites without understanding what 
precedes them. For whenever they wish to attempt anything underhand, they 
mutilate the Scriptures. But let him quote the passage as a whole, and he will 
discover the reason kept in view in writing it. For we have the beginning of the 
section a little above; and we ought, of course, to commence there in showing to 
whom and about whom the passage speaks. For above, the beginning of the section 
stands thus: "Ask me concerning my sons and my daughters, and concerning the 
work of my hands command ye me. I have made the earth, and man upon it: I with 
my hand have stablished the heaven; I have commanded all the stars. I have 
raised him up, and all his ways are straight. He shall build my city, and he 
shall turn back the captivity; not for price nor reward, said the Lord of hosts. 
Thus said the Lord of hosts, Egypt hath laboured, and the merchandise of 
Ethiopia anti the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come over unto thee, and they 
shall be slaves to thee: and they shall come after thee bound with manacles, and 
they shall fall down unto thee; and they shall make supplication unto thee, 
because God is in thee; and there is no God beside thee. For Thou art God, and 
we knew not; the God of Israel, the Saviour," 
"In thee, therefore," says he, "God is." But in whom is God except in Christ 
Jesus, the Father's Word, and the mystery of the economy? And again, exhibiting 
the truth regarding Him, he points to the fact of His being in the flesh when He 
says, "I have raised Him up in righteousness, and all His ways are straight." 
For what is this? Of whom does the Father thus testify? It is of the Son that 
the Father says, "I have raised Him up in righteousness." 
And that the Father did raise up His Son in righteousness, the Apostle Paul 
bears witness, saying, "But if the Spirit of Him that raised up Christ Jesus 
from the dead dwell in you, He that raised up Christ Jesus from the dead shall 
also quicken your mortal bodies by His Spirit that dwelleth in you." 
Behold, the word spoken by the prophet is thus made good, "I have raised Him 
up in righteousness." And in saying, "God is in thee," he referred to the 
mystery of the economy, because when the Word was made incarnate and became man, 
the Father was in the Son, and the Son in the Father, while the Son was living 
among men. This, therefore, was signified, brethren, that in reality the mystery 
of the economy by the Holy Ghost and the Virgin was this Word, constituting yet 
one Son to God. And it is not simply that I say this, but He Himself attests it 
who came down from heaven; for He speaketh thus: "No man hath ascended up to 
heaven, but He that came down from heaven, even the Son of man which is in 
heaven." What then can he seek beside what is thus written? 
Will he say, forsooth, that flesh was in heaven? Yet there is the flesh which 
was presented by the Father's Word as an offering,--the flesh that came by the 
Spirit and the Virgin, (and was) demonstrated to be the perfect Son of God. It 
is evident, therefore, that He offered Himself to the Father. And before this 
there was no flesh in heaven. Who, then, was in heaven but the Word unincarnate, 
who was despatched to show that He was upon earth and was also in heaven? For He 
was Word, He was Spirit, He was Power. The same took to Himself the name common 
and current among men, and was called from the beginning the Son of man on 
account of what He was to be, although He was not yet man, as Daniel testifies 
when he says, "I saw, and behold one like the Son of man came on the clouds of 
heaven." Rightly, then, did he say that He who was in heaven was called from the 
beginning by this name, the Word of God, as being that from the beginning. 
5. But what is meant, says he, in the other passage: "This is God, and there 
shall none other be accounted of in comparison of Him?" That said he rightly. 
For in comparison of the Father who shall be accounted of? But he says: "This is 
our God; there shall none other be accounted of in comparison of Him. He hath 
found out all the way of knowledge, and hath given it unto Jacob His servant, 
and to Israel His beloved." He saith well. For who is Jacob His servant, Israel 
His beloved, but He of whom He crieth, saying, "This is my beloved Son, in whom 
I am well pleased: hear ye Him?" Having received, then, all knowledge from the 
Father, the perfect Israel, the true Jacob, afterward did show Himself upon 
earth, and conversed with men. And who, again, is meant by Israel but a man who 
sees God? and there is no one who sees God except the Son alone, the perfect man 
who alone declares the will of the Father. For John also says, "No man hath seen 
God at any time; the only-begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, He 
hath declared Him." And again: "He who came down from heaven testifieth what He 
hath heard and seen." This, then, is He to whom the Father hath given all 
knowledge, who did show Himself upon earth, and conversed with men. 
6. Let us look next at the apostle's word: "Whose are the fathers, of whom as 
concerning the flesh Christ came, who is over all, God blessed for ever." This 
word declares the mystery of the truth rightly and clearly. He who is over all 
is God; for thus He speaks boldly, "All things are delivered unto me of my 
Father." He who is over all, God blessed, has been born; and having been made 
man, He is (yet) God for ever. For to this effect John also has said, "Which is, 
and which was, and which is to come, the Almighty." And well has he named Christ 
the Almighty. For in this he has said only what Christ testifies of Himself. For 
Christ gave this testimony, and said, "All things are delivered unto me of my 
Father;" and Christ rules all things, and has been appointed 

Almighty by the Father. And in like manner Paul also, in setting forth the 
truth that all things are delivered unto Him, said, "Christ the first-fruits; 
afterwards they that are Christ's at His coming. Then cometh the end, when He 
shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father; when He shall have 
put down all rule, and all authority, and power. For He must reign, till He hath 
put all enemies under His feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. 
For all things are put under Him. But when He saith, All things are put under 
Him, it is manifest that He is excepted which did put all things under Him. Then 
shall He also Himself be subject to Him who put all things under Him, that God 
may be all in all." If, therefore, all things are put under Him with the 
exception of Him who put them under Him, He is Lord of all, and the Father is 
Lord of Him, that in all there might be manifested one God, to whom all things 
are made subject together with Christ, to whom the Father hath made all things 
subject, with the exception of Himself. And this, indeed, is said by Christ 
Himself, as when in the Gospel He confessed Him to be His Father and His God. 
For He speaks thus: "I go to my Father and your Father, and to my God and your 
God." If then, Noetus ventures to say that He is the Father Himself, to what 
father will he say Christ goes away according to the word of the Gospel? But if 
he will have us abandon the Gospel and give credence to his senselessness, he 
expends his labour in vain; for "we ought to obey God rather than men." 
7. If, again, he allege His own word when He said, "I and the Father are 
one," let him attend to the fact, and understand that He did not say, "I and the 
Father am one, but are one." For the word are is not said of one person, but it 
refers to two persons, and one power. He has Himself made this clear, when He 
spake to His Father concerning the disciples, "The glory which Thou gavest me I 
have given them; that they may be one, even as we are one: I in them, and Thou 
in me, that they may be made perfect in one; that the world may know that Thou 
hast sent me." What have the Noetians to say to these things? Are alI one body 
in respect of substance, or is it that we become one in the power and 
disposition of unity of mind? In the same manner the Son, who was sent and was 
not known of those who are in the world, confessed that He was in the Father in 
power and disposition. For the Son is the one mind of the Father. We who have 
the Father's mind believe so (in Him); but they who have it not have denied the 
Son. And if, again, they choose to allege the fact that Philip inquired about 
the Father, saying, "Show us the Father, and it sufficeth us," to whom the Lord 
made answer in these terms: "Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast 
thou not known me, Philip? He that hath seen me hath seen the Father. Believest 
thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me?" and if they choose to 
maintain that their dogma is ratified by this passage, as if He owned Himself to 
be the Father, let them know that it is decidedly against them, and that they 
are confuted by this very word. For though Christ had spoken of Himself, and 
showed Himself among all as the Son, they had not yet recognised Him to be such, 
neither had they been able to apprehend or contemplate His real power. And 
Philip, not having been able to receive this, as far as it was possible to see 
it, requested to behold the Father. To whom then the Lord said, "Philip, have I 
been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me? He that hath seen me 
hath seen the Father." By which He means, If thou hast seen me, thou mayest know 
the Father through me. For through the image, which is like (the original), the 
Father is made readily known. But if thou hast not known the image, which is the 
Son, how dost thou seek to see the Father? And that this is the case is made 
clear by the rest of the chapter, which signifies that the Son who "has been set 
forth was sent from the Father, and goeth to the Father." 
8. Many other passages, or rather all of them, attest the truth. A man, 
therefore, even though he will it not, is compelled to acknowledge God the 
Father Almighty, and Christ Jesus the Son of God, who, being God, became man, to 
whom also the Father made all things subject, Himself excepted, and the Holy 
Spirit; and that these, therefore, are three. But if he desires to learn how it 
is shown still that there is one God, let him know that His power is one. As far 
as regards the power, therefore, God is one. But as far as regards the economy 
there is a threefold manifestation, as shall be proved afterwards when we give 
account of the true doctrine. In these things, however, which are thus set forth 
by us, we are at one. For there is one God in whom we must believe, but 
unoriginated, impassible, immortal, doing all things as He wills, in the way He 
wills, and when He wills. What, then, will this Noetus, who knows nothing of the 
truth, dare to say to these things? And now, as Noetus has been confuted, let us 
turn to the exhibition of the truth itself, that we may establish the truth, 
against which all these mighty heresies have arisen without being able to state 
anything to the purpose. 
9. There is, brethren, one God, the knowledge of whom we gain from the Holy 
Scriptures, and from no other source. For just as a man, if he wishes to be 
skilled in the wisdom of this world, will find himself unable to get at it in 
any other way than by mastering the dogmas of philosophers, so all of us who 
wish to practise piety will be unable to learn its practice from any other 
quarter than the oracles of God. Whatever things, then, the Holy Scriptures 
declare, at these let us took; and whatsoever things they teach, these let us 
learn; and as the Father wills our belief to be, let us believe; and as He wills 
the Son to be glorified, let us glorify Him; and as He wills the Holy Spirit to 
be bestowed, let us receive Him. Not according to our own will, nor according to 
our own mind, nor yet as using violently those things which are given by God, 
but even as He has chosen to teach them by the Holy Scriptures, so let us 
discern them. 
10. God, subsisting alone, and having nothing contemporaneous with Himself, 
determined to create the world. And conceiving the world in mind, and willing 
and uttering the word, He made it; and straightway it appeared, formed as it had 
pleased Him. For us, then, it is sufficient simply to know that there was 
nothing contemporaneous with God. Beside Him there was nothing; but He, while 
existing alone, yet existed in plurality. For He was neither without reason, nor 
wisdom, nor power, nor counsel And all things were in Him, and He was the All. 
When He willed, and as He willed, He manifested His word in the times determined 
by Him, and by Him He made all things. When He wills, He does; and when He 
thinks, He executes; and when He speaks, He manifests; when He fashions, He 
contrives in wisdom. For all things that are made He forms by reason and 
wisdom--creating them in reason, and arranging them in wisdom. He made them, 
then, as He pleased, for He was God. And as the Author, and fellow-Counsellor, 
and Framer of the things that are in formation, He begat the Word; and as He 
bears this Word in Himself, and that, too, as (yet) invisible to the world which 
is created, He makes Him visible; (and) uttering the voice first, and begetting 
Him as Light of Light, He set Him forth to the world as its Lord, (and) His own 
mind; and whereas He was visible formerly to Himself alone, and invisible to the 
world which is made, He makes Him visible in order that the world might see Him 
in His manifestation, and be capable of being saved. 
11. And thus there appeared another beside Himself. But when I say another, I 
do not mean that there are two Gods, but that it is only as light of light, or 
as water from a fountain, or as a ray from the sun. For there is but one power, 
which is from the All; and the Father is the All, from whom cometh this Power, 
the Word. And this is the mind which came forth into the world, and was 
manifested as the Son of God. All things, then, are by Him, and He alone is of 
the Father. Who then adduces a multitude of gods brought in, time after time? 
For all are shut up, however unwillingly, to admit this fact, that the All runs 
up into one. If, then, all things run up into one, even according to Valentinus, 
and Marcion, and Cerinthus, and all their fooleries, they are also reduced, 
however unwillingly, to this position, that they must acknowledge that the One 
is the cause of all things. Thus, then, these too, though they wish it not, fall 
in with the truth, and admit that one God made all things according to His good 
pleasure. And He gave the law and the prophets; and in giving them, He made them 
speak by the Holy Ghost, in order that, being gifted with the inspiration of the 
Father's power, they might declare the Father's counsel and will. 
12. Acting then in these (prophets), the Word spoke of Himself. For already 
He became His own herald, and showed that the Word would be manifested among 
men. And for this reason He cried thus: "I am made manifest to them that sought 
me not; I am found of them that asked not for me." And who is He that is made 
manifest but the Word of the Father?--whom the Father sent, and in whom He 
showed to men the power proceeding from Him. Thus, then, was the Word made 
manifest, even as the blessed John says. For he sums up the things that were 
said by the prophets, and shows that this is the Word, by whom all things were 
made. For he speaks to this effect: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word 
was with God, and the Word was God. All things were made by Him, and without Him 
was not anything made." And beneath He says, "The world was made by Him, and the 
world knew Him not; He came unto His own, and His own received Him not." If, 
then, said he, the world was made by Him, according to the word of the prophet, 
"By the Word of the Lord were the heavens made," then this is the Word that was 
also made manifest. We accordingly see the Word incarnate, and we know the 
Father by Him, and we believe in the Son, (and) we worship the Holy Spirit. Let 
us then look at the testimony of Scripture. with respect to the announcement of 
the future manifestation of the Word. 
13. Now Jeremiah says, "Who hath stood in the counsel of the Lord, and hath 
perceived His Word?" But the Word of God alone is visible, while the word of man 
is audible. When he speaks of seeing the Word, I must believe that this visible 
(Word) has been sent. And there was none other (sent) but the Word. And that He 
was sent Peter testifies, when he says to the centurion Cornelius: "God sent His 
Word unto the children of Israel by the preaching of Jesus Christ. This is the 
God who is Lord of all." If, then, the Word is sent by Jesus Christ, the will of 
the Father is Jesus Christ. 
14. These things then, brethren, are declared by the Scriptures. And the 
blessed John, in the testimony of his Gospel, gives us an account of this 
economy (disposition) and acknowledges this Word as God, when he says, "In the 
beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God." If, 
then, the Word was with God, and was also God, what follows? Would one say that 
he speaks of two Gods? I shall not indeed speak of two Gods, but of one; of two 
Persons however, and of a third economy (disposition), viz., the grace of the 
Holy Ghost. For the Father indeed is One, but there are two Persons, because 
there is also the Son; and then there is the third, the Holy Spirit. The Father 
decrees, the Word executes, and the Son is manifested, through whom the Father 
is believed on. The economy of harmony is led back to one God; for God is One. 
It is the Father who commands, and the Son who obeys, and the Holy Spirit who 
gives understanding: the Father who is above all, and the Son who is through 
all, and the Holy Spirit who is in all. And we cannot otherwise think of one 
God, but by believing in truth in Father and Son and Holy Spirit. For the Jews 
glorified (or gloried in) the Father, but gave Him not thanks, for they did not 
recognise the Son. The disciples recognised the Son, but not in the Holy Ghost; 
wherefore they also denied Him. The Father's Word, therefore, knowing the 
economy (disposition) and the will of the Father, to wit, that the Father seeks 
to be worshipped in none other way than this, gave this charge to the disciples 
after He rose from the dead: "Go ye and teach all nations, baptizing them in the 
name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost." And by this He 
showed, that whosoever omitted any one of these, failed in glorifying God 
perfectly. For it is through this Trinity that the Father is glorified. For the 
Father willed, the Son did, the Spirit manifested. The whole Scriptures, then, 
proclaim this truth. 

15. But some one will say to me, You adduce a thing strange to me, when you 
call the Son the Word. For John indeed speaks of the Word, but it is by a figure 
of speech. Nay, it is by no figure of speech. For while thus presenting this 
Word that was from the beginning, and has now been sent forth, he said below in 
the Apocalypse, "And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and He that 
sat upon him (was) Faithful and True; and in righteousness He doth judge and 
make war. And His eyes (were) as flame of fire, and on His head were many 
crowns; and He had a name written that no man knew but He Himself. And He (was) 
clothed in a vesture dipped in blood: and His name is called the Word of God." 
See then, brethren, how the vesture sprinkled with blood denoted in symbol the 
flesh, through which the impassible Word of God came under suffering, as also 
the prophets testify to me. For thus speaks the blessed Micah: "The house of 
Jacob provoked the Spirit of the Lord to anger. These are their pursuits. Are 
not His words good with them, and do they walk rightly? And they have risen up 
in enmity against His countenance of peace, and they have stripped off His 
glory." That means His suffering in the flesh. And in like manner also the 
blessed Paul says, "For what the law could not do, in that it was weak, God, 
sending His own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, condemned sin in the flesh, 
that the righteousness of the law might be shown in us, who walk not after the 
flesh, but after the Spirit." What Son of His own, then, did God send through 
the flesh but the Word, whom He addressed as Son because He was to become such 
(or be begotten) in the future? And He takes the common name for tender 
affection among men in being called the Son. For neither was the Word, prior to 
incarnation and when by Himself, yet perfect Son, although He was perfect Word, 
only-begotten. Nor could the flesh subsist by itself apart from the Word, 
because it has its subsistence in the Word. Thus, then, one perfect Son of God 
was manifested. 
16. And these indeed are testimonies bearing on the incarnation of the Word; 
and there are also very many others. But let us also look at the subject in 
hand,--namely, the question, brethren, that in reality the Father's power, which 
is the Word, came down from heaven, and not the Father Himself. For thus He 
speaks: "I came forth from the Father, and am come." Now what subject is meant 
in this sentence, "I came forth from the Father," but just the Word? And what is 
it that is begotten of Him, but just the Spirit, that is to say, the Word? But 
you will say to me, How is He begotten? In your own case you can give no 
explanation of the way in which you were begotten, although you see every day 
the cause according to man; neither can you tell with accuracy the economy in 
His case. For you have it not in your power to acquaint yourself with the 
practised and indescribable art (method) of the Maker, but only to see, and 
understand, and believe that man is God's work. Moreover, you are asking an 
account of the generation of the Word, whom God the Father in His good pleasure 
begat as He willed. Is it not enough for you to learn that God made the world, 
but do you also venture to ask whence He made it? Is it not enough for you to 
learn that the Son of God has been manifested to you for salvation if you 
believe, but do you also inquire curiously how He was begotten after the Spirit? 
No more than two, in sooth, have been put in trust to give the account of His 
generation after the flesh; and are you then so bold as to seek the account (of 
His generation) after the Spirit, which the Father keeps with Himself, intending 
to reveal it then to the holy ones and those worthy of seeing His face? Rest 
satisfied with the word spoken by Christ, viz., "That which is born of the 
Spirit is spirit," just as, speaking by the prophet of the generation of the 
Word, He shows the fact that He is begotten, but reserves the question of the 
manner and means, to reveal it only in the time determined by Himself. For He 
speaks thus: "From the womb, before the morning star, I have begotten Thee." 

17. These testimonies are sufficient for the believing who study truth, and 
the unbelieving credit no testimony. For the Holy Spirit, indeed, in the person 
of the apostles, has testified to this, saying, "And who has believed our 
report?" Therefore let us not prove ourselves unbelieving, lest the word spoken 
be fulfilled in us. Let us believe then, dear brethren, according to the 
tradition of the apostles, that God the Word came down from heaven, (and 
entered) into the holy Virgin Mary, in order that, taking the flesh from her, 
and assuming also a human, by which I mean a rational soul, and becoming thus 
all that man is with the exception of sin, He might save fallen man, and confer 
immortality on men who believe on His name. In all, therefore, the word of truth 
is demonstrated to us, to wit, that the Father is One, whose word is present 
(with Him), by whom He made all things; whom also, as we have said above, the 
Father sent forth in later times for the salvation of men. This (Word) was 
preached by the law and the prophets as destined to come into the world. And 
even as He was preached then, in the same manner also did He come and manifest 
Himself, being by the Virgin and the Holy Spirit made a new man; for in that He 
had the heavenly (nature) of the Father, as the Word and the earthly (nature), 
as taking to Himself the flesh from the old Adam by the medium of the Virgin, He 
now, coming forth into the world, was manifested as God in a body, coming forth 
too as a perfect man. For it was not in mere appearance or by conversion, but in 
truth, that He became man. 
18. Thus then, too, though demonstrated as God, He does not refuse the 
conditions proper to Him as man, since He hungers and toils and thirsts in 
weariness, and flees in fear, and prays in trouble. And He who as God has a 
sleepless nature, slumbers on a pillow. And He who for this end came into the 
world, begs off from the cup of suffering. And in an agony He sweats blood, and 
is strengthened by an angel, who Himself strengthens those who believe on Him, 
and taught men to despise death by His work. And He who knew what manner of man 
Judas was, is betrayed by Judas. And He, who formerly was honoured by him as 
God, is contemned by Caiaphas. And He is set at nought by Herod, who is Himself 
to judge the whole earth. And He is scourged by Pilate, who took upon Himself 
our infirmities. And by the soldiers He is mocked, at whose behest stand 
thousands of thousands and myriads of myriads of angels and archangels. And He 
who fixed the heavens like a vault is fastened to the cross by the Jews. And He 
who is inseparable from the Father cries to the Father, and commends to Him His 
spirit; and bowing His head, He gives up the ghost, who said, "I have power to 
lay down my life, and I have power to take it again;" and because He was not 
overmastered by death, as being Himself Life, He said this: "I lay it down of 
myself." And He who gives life bountifully to all, has His side pierced with a 
spear. And He who raises the dead is wrapped in linen and laid in a sepulchre, 
and on the third day He is raised again by the Father, though Himself the 
Resurrection and the Life. 
For all these things has He finished for us, who for our sakes was made as we 
are. For "Himself hath borne our infirmities, and carried our diseases; and for 
our sakes He was afflicted," as Isaiah the prophet has said. This is He who was 
hymned by the angels, and seen by the shepherds, and waited for by Simeon, and 
witnessed to by Anna. This is He who was inquired after by the wise men, and 
indicated by the star; He who was engaged in His Father's house, and pointed to 
by John, and witnessed to by the Father from above in the voice, "This is my 
beloved Son; hear ye Him." He is crowned victor against the devil. This is Jesus 
of Nazareth, who was invited to the marriage-feast in Cana, and turned the water 
into wine, and rebuked the sea when agitated by the violence of the winds, and 
walked on the deep as on dry land, and caused the blind man from birth to see, 
and raised Lazarus to life after he had been dead four days, and did many mighty 
works, and forgave sins, and conferred power on the disciples, and had blood and 
water flowing from His sacred side when pierced with the spear. For His sake the 
sun is darkened, the day has no light, the rocks are shattered, the veil is 
rent, the foundations of the earth are shaken, the graves are opened, and the 
dead are raised, and the rulers are ashamed when they see the Director of the 
universe upon the cross closing His eye and giving up the ghost. Creation saw, 
and was troubled; and, unable to bear the sight of His exceeding glory, shrouded 
itself in dark ness. This (is He who) breathes upon the disciples, and gives 
them the Spirit, and comes in among them when the doors are shut, and is taken 
up by a cloud into the heavens while the disciples gaze at Him, and is set down 
on the right hand of the Father, and comes again as the Judge of the living and 
the dead. This is the God who for our sakes became man, to whom also the Father 
hath put all things in subjection. To Him be the glory and the power, with the 
Father and the Holy Spirit, in the holy Church both now and ever, and even for 
evermore. Amen. yyyyyy
AGAINST BERON AND HELIX. 
FRAGMENTS OF A DISCOURSE, ALPHABETICALLY DIVIDED, ON THE DIVINE NATURE AND 
THE INCARNATION, AGAINST THE HERETICS BERON AND HELIX, THE BEGINNING OF WHICH 
WAS IN THESE WORDS, "HOLY, HOLY, HOLY, LORD GOD OF SABAOTH, WITH VOICE NEVER 
SILENT THE SERAPHIM EXCLAIM AND GLORIFY GOD." 
FRAGMENT I. 
By the omnipotent will of God all things are made, and the things that are 
made are also preserved, being maintained according to their several principles 
in perfect harmony by Him who is in His nature the omnipotent God and maker of 
all things, His divine will remaining unalterable by which He has made and moves 
all things, sustained as they severally are by their own natural laws. For the 
infinite cannot in any manner or by any account be susceptible of movement, 
inasmuch as it has nothing towards which and nothing around which it shall be 
moved. For in the case of that which is in its nature infinite, and so incapable 
of being moved, movement would be conversion. Wherefore also the Word of God 
being made truly man in our manner, yet without sin, and acting and enduring in 
man's way such sinless things as are proper to our nature, and assuming the 
circumscription of the flesh of our nature on our behalf sustained no conversion 
in that aspect in which He is one with the Father, being made in no respect one 
with the flesh through the exinani-tion. Burns He was without flesh, He remained 
without any circumscription. And through the flesh He wrought divinely those 
things which are proper to divinity, showing Himself to have both those natures 
in both of which He wrought, I mean the divine and the human, according to i 
that veritable and real and natural subsistence, (showing Himself thus) as both 
being in reality and as being understood to be at one and the same time infinite 
God and finite man, having the nature of each in perfection, with the same 
activity, that is to say, the same natural properties; whence we know that their 
distinction abides always according to the nature of each, and without 
conversion. But it is not (i.e., the distinction between deity and humanity), as 
some say, a merely comparative (or relative) matter, that we may not speak in an 
unwarrantable manner of a greater and a less in one who is ever the same in 
Himself. For comparisons can be instituted only between objects of like nature, 
and not between objects of unlike nature. But between God the Maker of all 
things and that which is made, between the infinite and the finite, between 
infinitude and finitude, there can be no kind of comparison, since these differ 
from each other not in mere comparison (or relatively), but absolutely in 
essence. And yet at the same time there has been effected a certain 
inexpressible and irrefragable union of the two into one substance, which 
entirely passes the understanding of anything that is made. 

For the divine is just the same after the incarnation that it was before the 
incarnation; in its essence infinite, illimitable, impassible, incomparable, 
unchangeable, inconvertable, self-potent, and, in short, subsisting in essence 
alone the infinitely worthy good. 
FRAGMENT II. 
The God of all things therefore became truly, according to the Scriptures, 
without conversion, sinless man, and that in a manner known to Himself alone, as 
He is the natural Artificer of things which are above our comprehension. And by 
that same saving act of the incarnation He introduced into the flesh the 
activity of His proper divinity, yet without having it (that activity) either 
circumscribed by the flesh through the exinanition, or growing naturally out of 
the flesh as it grew out of His divinity, but manifested through it in the 
things which He wrought in a divine manner in His incarnate state. For the flesh 
did not become divinity in nature by a transmutation of nature, as though it 
became essentially flesh of divinity. But what it was before, that also it 
continued to be in nature and activity when united with divinity, even as the 
Saviour said, "The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak." And working 
and enduring in the flesh things which were proper to sinless flesh, He proved 
the evacuation of divinity (to be) for our sakes, confirmed as it was by wonders 
and by sufferings of the flesh naturally. For with this purpose did the God of 
all things become man, viz., in order that by suffering in the flesh, which is 
susceptible of suffering, He might redeem our whole race, which was sold to 
death; and that by working wondrous things by His divinity, which is 
unsusceptible of suffering, through the medium of the flesh He might restore it 
to that incorruptible and blessed life from which it fell away by yielding to 
the devil; and that He might establish the holy orders of intelligent existences 
in the heavens in immutability by the mystery of His incarnation, the doing of 
which is the recapitulation of all things in himself. He remained therefore, 
also, after His incarnation, according to nature, God infinite, and more, having 
the activity proper and suitable to Himself,--an activity growing out of His 
divinity essentially, and manifested through His perfectly holy flesh by 
wondrous acts economically, to the intent that He might be believed in as God, 
while working out of Himself by the flesh, which by nature is weak, the 
salvation of the universe. 
FRAGMENT III. 
Now, with the view of explaining, by means of an illustration, what has been 
said concerning the Saviour, (I may say that) the power of thought which I have 
by nature is proper and suitable to me, as being possessed of a rational and 
intelligent soul; and to this soul there pertains, according to nature, a 
self-moved energy and first power, ever-moving, to wit, the thought that streams 
from it naturally. This thought I utter, when there is occasion, by fitting it 
to words, and expressing it rightly in signs, using the tongue as an organ, or 
artificial characters, showing that it is heard, though it comes into actuality 
by means of objects foreign to itself, and yet is not changed itself by those 
foreign objects. For my natural thought does not belong to the tongue or the 
letters, although I effect its utterance by means of these; but it belongs to 
me, who speak according to my nature, and by means of both these express it as 
my own, streaming as it does always from my intelligent soul according to its 
nature, and uttered by means of my bodily tongue organically, as I have said, 
when there is occasion. Now, to institute a comparison with that which is 
utterly beyond comparison, just as in us the power of thought that belongs by 
nature to the soul is brought to utterance by means of our bodily tongue without 
any change in itself, so, too, in the wondrous incarnation of God is the 
omnipotent and all-creating energy of the entire deity manifested without 
mutation in itself, by means of His perfectly holy flesh, and in the works which 
He wrought after a divine manner, (that energy of the deity) remaining in its 
essence free from all circumscription, although it shone through the flesh, 
which is itself essentially limited. For that which is in its nature 
unoriginated cannot be circumscribed by an originated nature, although this 
latter may have grown into one with it by a conception which circumscribes all 
understanding: nor can this be ever brought into the same nature and natural 
activity with that, so long as they remain each within its own proper and 
inconvertible nature. For it is only in objects of the same nature that there is 
the motion that works the same works, showing that the being whose power is 
natural is incapable in any manner of being or becoming the possession of a 
being of a different nature without mutation. 
FRAGMENT IV. 
For, in the view of apostles and prophets and teachers, the mystery of the 
divine incarnation has been distinguished as having two points of contemplation 
natural to it, distinct in all things, inasmuch as on the one hand it is the 
subsistence of perfect deity, and on the other is demonstrative of full 
humanity. As long, therefore, as the Word is acknowledged to be in substance 
one, of one energy, there shall never in any way be known a movement s in the 
two. For while God, who is essentially ever-existent, became by His infinite 
power, according to His will, sinless man, He is what He was, in all wherein God 
is known; and what He became, He is in all wherein man is known and can be 
recognised. In both aspects of Himself He never falls out of Himself, in His 
divine activities and in His human alike, preserving in both relations His own 
essentially unchangeable perfection. 
FRAGMENT V. 
For lately a certain person, Beron, along with some others, forsook the 
delusion of Valentinus, only to involve themselves in deeper error, affirming 
that the flesh assumed to Himself by the Word became capable of working like 
works with the deity by virtue of its assumption, and that the deity became 
susceptible of suffering in the same way with the flesh by virtue of the 
exinanition; and thus they assert the doctrine that there was at the same time a 
conversion and a mixing and a fusing of the two aspects one with the other. For 
if the flesh that was assumed became capable of working like works with the 
deity, it is evident that it also became God in essence in all wherein God is 
essentially known. And if the deity by the exinanition became susceptible of the 
same sufferings with the flesh, it is evident that it also became in essence 
flesh in all wherein flesh essentially can be known. For objects that act in 
like manner, and work like works, and are altogether of like kind, and are 
susceptible of like suffering with each other, admit of no difference of nature; 
and if the natures are fused together, Christ will be a duality; and if the 
persons are separated, there will be a quaternity, --a thing which is altogether 
to be avoided. And how will they conceive of the one and the same Christ, who is 
at once God and man by nature? And what manner of existence will He have 
according to them, if He has become man by a conversion of the deity, and if he 
has become God by a change of the flesh? For the mutation of these, the one into 
the other, is a complete subversion of both. Let the discussion, then, be 
considered by us again in a different way. 
FRAGMENT VI. 
Among Christians it is settled as the doctrine of piety, that, according to 
nature itself, and to the activity and to whatever else pertains thereunto, God 
is equal and the same with Himself, having nothing that is His unequal to 
Himself at all and heterogeneous. If, then, according to Beron, the flesh that 
He assumed to Himself became possessed of the like natural energy with them, it 
is evident that it also became possessed of the like nature with Him in all 
wherein that nature consists,--to wit, non-origination, non-generation, 
infinitude, eternity, incomprehensibility, and whatever else in the way of the 
transcendent the theological mind discerns in deity; and thus they both 
underwent conversion, neither the one nor the other preserving any more the 
substantial relation of its own proper nature. For he who recognises an 
identical operation in things of unlike nature, introduces at the same time a 
fusion of natures and a separation of persons, their natural existence being 
made entirely undistinguishable by the transference of properties. 
FRAGMENT VII. 
But if it (the flesh) did not become of like nature with that (the deity), 
neither shall it ever become of like natural energy with that; that He may not 
be shown to have His energy unequal with His nature, and heterogeneous, and, 
through all that pertains to Himself, to have entered on an existence outside of 
His natural equality and identity, which is an impious supposition. 
FRAGMENT VIII. 
Into this error, then, have they been carried, by believing, unhappily, that 
that divine energy was made the property of the flesh which was only manifested 
through the flesh in His miraculous actions; by which energy Christ, in so far 
as He is apprehended as God, gave existence to the universe, and now maintains 
and governs it. For they did not perceive that it is impossible for the energy 
of the divine nature to become the property of a being of a different nature 
apart from conversion; nor did they understand that that is not by any means the 
property of the flesh which is only manifested through it, and does not spring 
out of it according to nature; and yet the proof thereof was clear and evident 
to them. For I, by speaking with the tongue and writing with the hand, reveal 
through both these one and the same thought of my intelligent soul, its energy 
(or operation) being natural; in no way showing it as springing naturally out of 
tongue or hand; nor yet (showing) even the spoken thought as made to belong to 
them in virtue of its revelation by their means. For no intelligent person ever 
recognised tongue or hand as capable of thought, just as also no one ever 
recognised the perfectly holy flesh of God, in virtue of its assumption, and in 
virtue of the revelation of the divine energy through its medium, as becoming in 
nature creative. But the pious confession of the believer is that, with a view 
to our salvation, and in order to connect the universe with unchangeableness, 
the Creator of all things incorporated with Himself a rational soul and a 
sensible body from the all-holy Mary, ever-virgin, by an undefiled conception, 
without conversion, and was made man in nature, but separate from wickedness: 
the same was perfect God, and the same was perfect man; the same was in nature 
at once perfect God and man. In His deity He wrought divine things through His 
all-holy flesh,--such things, namely, as did not pertain to the flesh by nature; 
and in His humanity He suffered human things,--such things, namely, as did not 
pertain to deity by nature, by the upbearing of the deity. He wrought nothing 
divine without the body; nor did the same do anything human without the 
participation of deity. Thus He preserved for Himself a new and fitting method 
by which He wrought (according to the manner of) both, while that which was 
natural to both remained unchanged; to the accrediting of His perfect 
incarnation, which is really genuine, and has nothing lacking in it. Beron, 
therefore, since the case stands with him as I have already stated, confounding 
together in nature the deity and the humanity of Christ in a single energy, and 
again separating them in person, subverts the life, not knowing that identical 
operation is indicative of the connatural identity only of connatural persons. 
yyyyyy
THE DISCOURSE ON THE HOLY THEOPHANY. 
1. Good, yea, very good, are all the works of our God and Saviour--all of 
them that eye seeth and mind perceiveth, all that reason interprets and hand 
handles, all that intellect comprehends and human nature understands. For what 
richer beauty can there be than that of the circle of heaven? And what form of 
more blooming fairness than that of earth's surface? And what is there swifter 
in the course than the chariot of the sun? And what more graceful car than the 
lunar orb? And what work more wonderful than the compact mosaic of the stars? 
And what more productive of supplies than the seasonable winds? And what more 
spotless mirror than the light of day? And what creature more excellent than 
man? Very good, then, are all the works of our God and Saviour. And what more 
requisite gift, again, is there than the element of water? For with water all 
things are washed and nourished, and cleansed and bedewed. Water bears the 
earth, water produces the dew, water exhilarates the vine; water ma tures the 
corn in the ear, water ripens the grapecluster, water softens the olive, water 
sweetens the palm-date, water reddens the rose and decks the violet, water makes 
the lily bloom with its brilliant cups. And why should I speak at length? 
Without the element of water, none of the present order of things can subsist. 
So necessary is the element of water; for the other elements took their places 
beneath the highest vault of the heavens, but the nature of water obtained a 
seat also above the heavens. And to this the prophet himself is a witness, when 
he exclaims, "Praise the Lord, ye heavens of heavens, and the water that is 
above the heavens." 
2. Nor is this the only thing that proves the dignity of the water. But there 
is also that which is more honourable than all--the fact that Christ, the Maker 
of all, came down as the rain, and was known as a spring, and diffused Himself 
as a river, and was baptized in the Jordan. For you have just heard how Jesus 
came to John, and was baptized by him in the Jordan. Oh things strange beyond 
compare! How should the boundless Rivers that makes glad the city of God have 
been dipped in a little water! The illimitable Spring that bears life to all 
men, and has no end, was covered by poor and temporary waters! He who is present 
everywhere, and absent nowhere--who is incomprehensible to angels and invisible 
to men--comes to the baptism according to His own good pleasure. When you hear 
these things, beloved, take them not as if spoken literally, but accept them as 
presented in a figure. 
Whence also the Lord was not unnoticed by the watery element in what He did 
in secret, in the kindness of His condescension to man. "For the waters saw Him, 
and were afraid." They wellnigh broke from their place, and burst away from 
their boundary. Hence the prophet, having this in his view many generations ago, 
puts the question, "What aileth thee, O sea, that thou reddest; and thou, 
Jordan, that thou wast driven back?" And they in reply said, We have seen the 
Creator of all things in the "form of a servant," and being ignorant of the 
mystery of the economy, we were lashed with fear. 
3. But we, who know the economy, adore His mercy, because He hath come to 
save and not to judge the world. Wherefore John, the forerunner of the Lord, who 
before knew not this mystery, on learning that He is Lord in truth, cried out, 
and spake to those who came to be baptized of him, "O generation of vipers," why 
look ye so earnestly at me? "I am not the Christ;" I am the servant, and not the 
lord; I am the subject, and not the king; I am the sheep, and not the shepherd; 
I am a man, and not God. By my birth I loosed the barrenness of my mother; I did 
not make virginity barren. I was brought up from beneath; I did not come down 
from above. I bound the tongue of my father; I did not unfold divine grace. I 
was known by my mother, and I was not announced by a star. I am worthless, and 
the least; but "after me there comes One who is before me" --after me, indeed, 
in time, but before me by reason of the inaccessible and unutterable light of 
divinity. "There comes One mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: 
He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire." I am subject to 
authority, but He has authority in Himself. I am bound by sins, but He is the 
Remover of sins. apply the law, but He bringeth grace to light. teach as a 
slave, but He judgeth as the Master. I have the earth as my couch, but He 
possesses heaven. I baptize with the baptism of repentance, but He confers the 
gift of adoption: "He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire." Why 
give ye attention to me? I am not the Christ. 
4. As John says these things to the multitude, and as the people watch in 
eager expectation of seeing some strange spectacle with their bodily eyes, and 
the devil is struck with amazement at such a testimony from John, lo, the Lord 
appears, plain, solitary, uncovered, without escort, having on Him the body of 
man like a garment, and hiding the dignity of the Divinity, that He may elude 
the snares of the dragon. And not only did He approach John as Lord without 
royal retinue; but even like a mere man, and one involved in sin, He bent His 
head to be baptized by John. Wherefore John, on seeing so great a humbling of 
Himself, was struck with astonishment at the affair, and began to prevent Him, 
saying, as ye have just heard, "I have need to be baptized of Thee, and comest 
Thou to me?" What doest Thou, O Lord? Thou teachest things not according to 
rule. I have preached one thing (regarding Thee), and Thou performest another; 
the devil has heard one thing, and perceives another. Baptize me with the fire 
of Divinity; why waitest Thou for water? Enlighten me with the Spirit; why dost 
Thou attend upon a creature? Baptize me, the Baptist, that Thy pre-eminence may 
be known. I, O Lord, baptize with the baptism of repentance, and I cannot 
baptize those who come to me unless they first confess fully their sins. Be it 
so then that I baptize Thee, what hast Thou to confess? Thou art the Remover of 
sins, and wilt Thou be baptized with the baptism of repentance? Though I should 
venture to baptize Thee, the Jordan dares not to come near Thee. "I have need to 
be baptized of Thee, and comest Thou to me?" 
5. And what saith the Lord to him? "Suffer it to be so now, for thus it 
becometh us to fulfil all righteousness." "Suffer it to be so now," John; thou 
art not wiser than I. Thou seest as man; I foreknow as God. It becomes me to do 
this first, and thus to teach. I engage in nothing unbecoming, for I am invested 
with honour. Dost thou marvel, O John, that I am not come in my dignity? The 
purple robe of kings suits not one in private station, but military splendour 
suits a king: am I come to a prince, and not to a friend? "Suffer it to be so 
now for thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness:" I am the Fulfiller of 
the law; I seek to leave nothing wanting to its whole fulfilment, that so after 
me Paul may exclaim, "Christ is the fulfilling of the law for righteousness to 
every one that believeth." "Suffer it to be so now, for thus it becometh us to 
fulfil all righteousness." Baptize me, John, in order that no one may despise 
baptism. I am baptized by thee, the servant, that no one among kings or 
dignitaries may scorn to be baptized by the hand of a poor priest. Suffer me to 
go down into the Jordan, in order that they may hear my Father's testimony, and 
recognise the power of the Son. "Suffer it to be so now, for thus it becometh us 
to fulfil all righteousness." Then at length John suffers Him. "And Jesus, when 
He was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and the heavens were 
opened unto Him; and, lo, the Spirit of God descended like a dove, and rested 
upon Him. And a voice (came) from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in 
whom I am well pleased." 
6. Do you see, beloved, how many and how great blessings we would have lost, 
if the Lord had yielded to the exhortation of John, and declined baptism? For 
the heavens were shut before this; the region above was inaccessible. We would 
in that case descend to the lower parts, but we would not ascend to the upper. 
But was it only that the Lord was baptized? He also renewed the old man, and 
committed to him again the sceptre of adoption. For straightway "the heavens 
were opened to Him." A reconciliation took place of the visible with the 
invisible; the celestial orders were filled with joy; the diseases of earth were 
healed; secret things were made known; those at enmity were restored to amity. 
For you have heard the word of the evangelist, saying, "The heavens were opened 
to Him," on account of three wonders. For when Christ the Bridegroom was 
baptized, it was meet that the bridal-chamber of heaven should open its 
brilliant gates. And in like manner also, when the Holy Spirit descended in the 
form of a dove, and the Father's voice spread everywhere, it was meet that "the 
gates of heaven should be lifted up." "And, lo, the heavens were opened to Him; 
and a voice was heard, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well 
pleased." 
7. The beloved generates love, and the light immaterial the light 
inaccessible? "This is my beloved Son," He who, being manifested on earth and 
yet unseparated from the Father's bosom, was manifested, and yet did not appear. 
For the appearing is a different thing, since in appearance the baptizer here is 
superior to the baptized. For this reason did the Father send down the Holy 
Spirit from heaven upon Him who was baptized. For as in the ark of Noah the love 
of God toward man is signified by the dove, so also now the Spirit, descending 
in the form of a dove, bearing as it were the fruit of the olive, rested on Him 
to whom the witness was borne. For what reason? That the faithfulness of the 
Father's voice might be made known, and that the prophetic utterance of a long 
time past might be ratified. And what utterance is this? 
"The voice of the Lord on the waters, the God of glory thundered; the Lord 
upon many waters." And what voice? "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well 
pleased." This is He who is named the son of Joseph, and (who is) according to 
the divine essence my Only-begotten. "This is my beloved Son"--He who is hungry, 
and yet maintains myriads; who is weary, and yet gives rest to the weary; who 
has not where to lay His head, and yet bears up all things in His hand; who 
suffers, and yet heals sufferings; who is smitten, and yet confers liberty on 
the world; who is pierced in the side, and yet repairs the side of Adam. 
8. But give me now your best attention, I pray you, for I wish to go back to 
the fountain of life, and to view the fountain that gushes with healing. The 
Father of immortality sent the immortal Son and Word into the world, who came to 
man in order to wash him with water and the Spirit; and He, begetting us again 
to incorruption of soul and body, breathed into us the breath (spirit) of life, 
and endued us with an incorruptible panoply. If, therefore, man has become 
immortal, he will also be God. And if he is made God by water and the Holy 
Spirit after the regeneration of the layer he is found to be also joint-heir 
with Christ after the resurrection from the dead. Wherefore I preach to this 
effect: Come, all ye kindreds of the nations, to the immortality of the baptism. 
I bring good tidings of life to you who tarry in the darkness of ignorance. Come 
into liberty from slavery, into a kingdom from tyranny, into incorruption from 
corruption. And how, saith one, shall we come? How? By water and the Holy Ghost. 
This is the water in conjunction with the Spirit, by which paradise is watered, 
by which the earth is enriched, by which plants grow, by which animals multiply, 
and (to sum up the whole in a single word) by which man is begotten again and 
endued with life, in which also Christ was baptized, and in which the Spirit 
descended in the form of a dove. 
9. This is the Spirit that at the beginning "moved upon the thee of the 
waters;" by whom the world moves; by whom creation consists, and all things have 
life; who also wrought mightily in the prophets, and descended in flight upon 
Christ. This is the Spirit that was given to the apostles in the form of fiery 
tongues. This is the Spirit that David sought when he said, "Create in me a 
clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me." Of this Spirit Gabriel 
also spoke to the Virgin, "The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of 
the Highest shall overshadow thee." By this Spirit Peter spake that blessed 
word, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." By this Spirit the rock 
of the Church was stablished. This is the Spirit, the Comforter, that is sent 
because of thee, that He may show thee to be the Son of God. 
10. Come then, be begotten again, O man, into the adoption of God. And how? 
says one. If thou practisest adultery no more, and committest not murder, and 
servest not idols; if thou art not overmastered by pleasure; if thou dost not 
suffer the feeling of pride to rule thee; if thou cleanest off the filthiness of 
impurity, and puttest off the burden of sin; if thou castest off the armour of 
the devil, and puttest on the breastplate of faith, even as Isaiah saith, "Wash 
you, and seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, and plead 
for the widow. And come and let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your 
sins be as scarlet, I shall make them white as snow; and though they be like 
crimson, I shall make them white as wool. And if ye be willing, and hear my 
voice, ye shall eat the good of the land." Do you see, beloved, how the prophet 
spake beforetime of the purifying power of baptism? For he who comes down in 
faith to the layer of regeneration, and renounces the devil, and joins himself 
to Christ; who denies the enemy, and makes the confession that Christ is God; 
who puts off the bondage, and puts on the adoption,--he comes up from the 
baptism brilliant as the sun, flashing forth the beams of righteousness, and, 
which is indeed the chief thing, he returns a son of God and joint-heir with 
Christ. To Him be the glory and the power, together with His most holy, and 
good, and quickening Spirit, now and ever, and to all the ages of the ages. 
Amen. 
yyyyyy
FRAGMENTS OF DISCOURSES OR HOMILIES. 
I. 
From the Discourse of Hippolytus, Bishop of Rome, on the Resurrection and 
Incorruption. 
Men, he says, "in the resurrection will be like the angels of God," to wit, 
in incorruption, and immortality, and incapacity of loss. For the incorruptible 
nature is not the subject of generation; it grows not, sleeps not, hungers not, 
thirsts not, is not wearied, suffers not, dies not, is not pierced by nails and 
spear, sweats not, drops not with blood. Of such kind are the natures of the 
angels and of souls released from the body. For both these are of another kind, 
and different from these creatures of our world, which are visible and 
perishing. 
II. 
From the Discourse of St. Hippolytus, Bishop and Martyr, on the Divine 
Nature. 
God is capable of willing, but not of not willing for that pertains only to 
one that changes and makes choice; for things that are being made follow the 
eternal will of God, by which also things that are made abide sustained. 
III. 
St. Hippolytus, Bishop and Martyr, in his Homily on the Paschal Supper. 
He was altogether in all, and everywhere; and though He filleth the universe 
up to all the principalities of the air, He stripped Himself again. And for a 
brief space He cries that the cup might pass from Him, with a view to show truly 
that He was also man. But remembering, too, the purpose for which He was sent, 
He fulfils the dispensation (economy) for which He was sent, and exclaims, 
"Father, not my will," and, "The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak." 
IV. 
1. Take me, O Samuel, the heifer brought to Bethlehem, in order to show the 
king begotten of David, and him who is anointed to be king and priest by the 
Father. 
2. Tell me, O blessed Mary, what that was that was conceived by thee in the 
womb, and what that was that was born by thee in thy virgin matrix. For it was 
the first-born Word of God that descended to thee from heaven, and was formed as 
a first-born man in the womb, in order that the first-born Word of God might be 
shown to be united with a first-born man. 
3. And in the second (form),--to wit, by the prophets, as by Samuel, calling 
back and delivering the people from the slavery of the aliens. And in the third 
(form), that in which He was incarnate, taking to Himself humanity from the 
Virgin, in which character also He saw the city, and wept over it. 
V. 
And for this reason three seasons of the year prefigured the Saviour Himself, 
so that He should fulfil the mysteries prophesied of Him. In the Passover 
season, so as to exhibit Himself as one destined to be sacrificed like a sheep, 
and to prove Himself the true Paschal-lamb, even as the apostle says, "Even 
Christ," who is God, "our passover was sacrificed for us." And at Pentecost so 
as to prosignify the kingdom of heaven as He Himself first ascended to heaven 
and brought man as a gift to God. 
VI. 
And an ark of imperishable wood was the Saviour Himself. For by this was 
signified the imperishable and incorruptible tabernacle (of His body), which 
engendered no corruption of sin. For the man who has sinned also has this 
confession to make: "My wounds stank, and were corrupt, because of my 
foolishness." But the Lord was without sin, being of imperishable wood in 
respect of His humanity,--that is to say, being of the Virgin and the Holy 
Spirit, covered, as it were, within and without with the purest gold of the Word 
of God. 
VII. 
1. He who rescued from the lowest hell the first-formed man of earth when he 
was lost and bound with the chains of death; He who came down from above, and 
raised the earthy on high; He who became the evangelist of the dead, and the 
redeemer of the souls, and the resurrection of the buried,--He was constituted 
the helper of vanquished man, being made like him Himself, (so that) the 
first-born Word acquainted Himself with the first-formed Adam in the Virgin; He 
who is spiritual sought out the earthy in the womb; He who is the ever-living 
One sought out him who, through disobedience, is subject to death; He who is 
heavenly called the terrene to the things that are above; He who is the 
nobly-born sought, by means of His own subjection, to declare the slave free; He 
transformed the man into adamant who was dissolved into dust and made the food 
of the serpent, and declared Him who hung on the tree to be Lord over the 
conqueror, and thus through the tree He is found victor. 
2. For they who know not now the Son of God incarnate, shall know in Him who 
comes as Judge in glory, Him who is now despised in the body of His humiliation. 

3. And the apostles, when they came to the sepulchre on the third day, did 
not find the body of Jesus; just as the children of Israel went up the mount and 
sought for the tomb of Moses, but did not find it. 
VIII. 
Under the figure of Egypt he described the world; and under things made with 
hands, idolatry; and under the earthquake, the subversion, and dissolution of 
the earth itself. And he represented the Lord the Word as a light cloud, the 
purest tabernacle. enthroned on which our Lord Jesus Christ entered into this 
life in order to subvert error. 
IX. 
Now Hippolytus, the martyr and bishop of [the Province of] Rome, in his 
second discourse on Daniel, speaks thus:- Then indeed Azarias, standing along 
with the others, made their acknowledgments to God with song and prayer in the 
midst of the furnace. Beginning thus with His holy and glorious and honourable 
name, they came to the works of the Lord themselves, and named first of all 
those of heaven, and glorified Him, saying, "Bless the Lord, all ye works of the 
Lord." Then they passed to the sons of men, and taking up their hymn in order, 
they then named the spirits [that people Tartarus beneath the earth,] and the 
souls of the righteous, m order that they might praise God together with them. 
X 
Now a person might say that these men, and those who hold a different 
opinion, are yet near neighbours, being involved in like error. For those men, 
indeed, either profess that Christ came into our life a mere man, and deny the 
talent of His divinity, or else, acknowledging Him to be God, they deny, on the 
other hand, His humanity, and teach that His appearances to those who saw Him as 
man were illusory, inasmuch as He did not bear with Him true manhood, but was 
rather a kind of phantom manifestation. Of this class are, for example, Marcion 
and Valentinus, and the Gnostics, who sunder the Word from the flesh, and thus 
set aside the one talent, viz., the incarnation. 
XI 
1. The body of the Lord presented both these to the world, the sacred blood 
and the holy water. 
2. And His body, though dead after the manner of man, possesses in it great 
power of life. For streams which flow not from dead bodies flowed forth from 
Him, viz., blood and water; in order that we might know what power for life is 
held by the virtue that dwelt in His body, so as that it appears not to be dead 
like others, and is able to shed forth for us the springs of life. 
3. And not a bone of the Holy Lamb is broken, this figure showing us that 
suffering toucheth not His strength. For the bones are the strength of the body. 

yyyyyy
FRAGMENTS FROM OTHER WRITINGS OF HIPPOLYTUS. 
I. 
Now Hippolytus, a martyr for piety, who was bishop of the place called 
Portus, near Rome, in his book Against all Heresies, wrote in these terms:- I 
perceive, then, that the matter is one of contention. For he speaks thus: Christ 
kept the supper, then, on that day, and then suffered; whence it is needful that 
I, too, should keep it in the same manner as the Lord did. But he has fallen 
into error by not perceiving that at the time when Christ suffered He did not 
eat the passover of the law. For He was the passover that had been of old 
proclaimed, and that was fulfilled on that determinate day. 
II. 
From the same. 
And again the same (authority), in the first book of his treatise on the Holy 
Supper, speaks thus:- Now that neither in the first nor in the last there was 
anything false is evident; for he who said of old, "I will not any more eat the 
passover," probably partook of supper before the passover. But the passover He 
did not eat, but He suffered; for it was not the time for Him to eat. 
III 
Hippolytus, Bishop and Martyr, in a letter to a certain queen. 
1. He calls Him, then, "the first-fruits of them that sleep," as the 
"first-begotten of the dead." For He, having risen, and being desirous to show 
that that same (body) had been raised which had also died, when His disciples 
were in doubt, called Thomas to Him, and said, "Reach hither; handle me, and 
see: for a spirit hath not bone and flesh, as ye see me have." 
2. In calling Him the first-fruits, he testified to that which we have said, 
viz., that the Saviour, taking to Himself the flesh out of the same lump, raised 
this same flesh, and made it the first-fruits of the flesh of the righteous, in 
order that all we who have believed in the hope of the Risen One may have the 
resurrection in expectation. yyyyyy
THE STORY OF A MAIDEN OF CORINTH, AND A CERTAIN MAGISTRIANUS 
The account given by Hippolytus, the friend of the apostles 
In another little book bearing the name of Hippolytus, the friend of the 
apostles, I found a story of the following nature:- There lived a certain most 
noble and beautiful maiden in the city of Corinth, in the careful exercise of a 
virtuous life. At that time some persons falsely charged her before the judge 
there, who was a Greek, with cursing the times, and the princes, and the images. 
Now those who trafficked in such things, brought her beauty under the notice of 
the impious judge, who lusted after women. And he gladly received the accusation 
with his equine ears and lascivious thoughts. And when she was brought before 
the bloodstained (judge), he was driven still more frantic with profligate 
passion. But when, after bringing every device to bear upon her, the profane 
than could not gain over this woman of God, he subjected the noble maiden to 
various outrages. And when he failed in these too, and was unable to seduce her 
from her confession of Christ, the cruel judge became furious against her, and 
gave her over to a punishment of the following nature: Placing the chaste maiden 
in a brothel, he charged the manager, saying, Take this woman, and bring me 
three nummi by her every day. And the man, exacting the money from her by her 
dishonour, gave her up to any who sought her in the brothel. And when the 
women-hunters knew that, they came to the brothel, and, paying the price lint 
upon their iniquity, sought to seduce her. But this most honourable maiden, 
taking counsel with herself to deceive them, called them to her, and earnestly 
besought them, saying: I have a certain ulceration of the pudenda, which has an 
extremely hateful stench; and I am afraid that ye might come to hate me on 
account of the abominable sore. Grant me therefore a few days, and then ye may 
have me even for nothing. With these words the blessed maiden gained over the 
profligates, and dismissed them for a time. And with most fitting prayers she 
impor tuned God, and with contrite supplications she sought to turn Him to 
compassion. God, therefore, who knew her thoughts, and understood how the chaste 
maiden was distressed in heart for her purity, gave ear to her; and the Guardian 
of the safety of all men in those days interposed with His arrangements in the 
following manner:- Of a certain person Magistrianus. 
There was a certain young man, Magistrianus, comely in his personal 
appearance, and of a pious mind, whom God had inspired with such a burning 
spiritual zeal, that he despised even death itself. He, coming under the guise 
of profligacy, goes in, when the evening was far gone, to the fellow who kept 
the women, and pays him five nummi, and says to him, Permit me to spend this 
night with this damsel. Entering then with her into the private apartment, he 
says to her, Rise, save thyself. And taking off her garments, and dressing her 
in his own attire, his night-gown, his cloak, and all the habiliments of a man, 
he says to her, Wrap yourself up with the top of your cloak, and go out; and 
doing so, and signing herself entirely with the mystery of the cross, she went 
forth uncorrupt place, and was preserved perfectly stainless by the grace of 
Christ, and by the instrumentality of the young man, who by his own blood 
delivered her from dishonour. And on the following day the matter became known, 
and Magistrianus was brought before the infuriated judge. And when the cruel 
tyrant had examined the noble champion of Christ, and had learned all, he 
ordered him to be thrown to the wild beasts,--that in this, too, the 
honour-hating demon might be put to shame. For, whereas he thought to involve 
the noble youth in an unhallowed punishment, he exhibited him as a double martyr 
for Christ, inasmuch as he had both striven nobly for his own immortal soul, and 
persevered manfully in labours also in behalf of that noble and blessed maiden. 
Wherefore also he was deemed worthy of double honour with Christ, and of the 
illustrious and blessed crowns by His goodness. 

