
Hippolytus of Rome












HIPPOLYTUS OF ROME
THE REFUTATION OF ALL HERESIES 
BOOK VIII. 
CONTENTS. 
THE following are the contents of the eighth book of the Refutation of all 
Heresies:- What are the opinions of the Docetae, and that they have formed the 
doctrines which they assert from natural philosophy. 
How Monoimus trifles, devoting his attention to poets, and geometricians, and 
arithmeticians. 
How (the system of) Tatian has arisen from the opinions of Valentinus and 
Marcion, and how this heretic (from this source) has formed his own doctrines. 
Hermogenes, however, availed himself of the tenets of Socrates, not those of 
Christ. 
How those err who contend for keeping Easter on the fourteenth day. 
What the error is of the Phrygians, who suppose that Montanus, and Priscilla, 
and Maximilla, are prophets. 
What the conceit is of the Encratites, and that their opinions have been 
formed not from the Holy Scriptures, but from themselves, and the Gymnosophists 
among the Indians. 
CHAP. I.--HERESIES HITHERTO REFUTED; OPINIONS OF THE DOCETAE. 
Since the great body of (the heretics) do not employ the counsel of the Lord, 
by having the beam in the eye, and announce that they see when in reality 
labouring under blindness, it seems to us expedient in no wise to be silent 
concerning the tenets of these. Our object is, that by the refutation 
accomplished by us, the (heretics), being of themselves ashamed, may be brought 
to know how the Saviour has advised (men) first to take away the beam, then to 
behold clearly the mote that is in thy brother's eye. Having therefore 
adequately and sufficiently explained the doctrines of the majority (of the 
heretics) in the seven books before this, we shall not now be silent as regards 
the (heterodox) opinions that follow (from these). We shall by this means 
exhibit the abundance of the grace of the Holy Spirit; and we shall refute those 
(who suppose) that they have acquired stedfastness of doctrine, when it is only 
in appearance. Now these have styled themselves Docetae, and propound the 
following opinions:- (The Docetae maintain) that God is the primal (Being), as 
it were a seed of a fig-tree, which is altogether very diminutive in size, but 
infinite in power. (This seed constitutes, according to the Docetae,) a lowly 
magnitude, incalculable in multitude, (and) labouring under no deficiency as 
regards generation. (This seed is) a refuge for the terror-stricken, a shelter 
of the naked, a veil for modesty, (and) the sought-for produce, to which He came 
in search (for fruit), he says, three times, and did not discover (any). 
Wherefore, he says, He cursed the fig-tree, because He did not find upon it that 
sweet fruit--the sought-for produce. And inasmuch as the Deity is, according to 
them to express myself briefly--of this description and so great, that is, small 
and minute, the world, as it seems to them, was made in some such manner as the 
following: When the branches of the fig-tree became tender, leaves budded 
(first), as one may (generally) see, and next in succession the fruit. Now, in 
this (fruit) is pre served treasured the infinite and incalculable seed of the 
fig-tree. We think, therefore, (say the Docetae,) that there are three (parts) 
which are primarily produced by the seed of the fig-tree, (viz.,) stem, which 
constitutes the fig-tree, leaves, and fruit--the fig itself, as we have 
previously declared. In this manner, the (Docetic) affirms, have been produced 
three AEons, which are principles from the primal originating cause of the 
universe. And Moses has not been silent on this point, when he says, that there 
are three words of God, "darkness, gloom, tempest, and added no more." For the 
(Docetic) says, God has made no addition to the three AEons; but these, in every 
respect. have been sufficient for (the exigencies of) those who have been 
begotten and are sufficient. God Himself, however, remains with Himself, far 
separated froth the three AEons. When each of these AEons had obtained an 
originating cause of generation, he grew, as has been declared, by little and 
little, and (by degrees) was magnified, and (ultimately) became perfect. But 
they think that that is perfect which is reckoned at ten. When, therefore, the 
AEons had become equal in number and in perfection, they were, as (the Docetae) 
are of opinion, constituted thirty AEons in all, while each of them attains full 
perfection in a decade. And the three are mutually distinct, and hold one 
(degree of) honour relatively to one another, differing in position merely, 
because one of them is first, and the other second, and the other of these 
third. Position, however, afforded them diversity of power. For he who has 
obtained a position nearest to the primal Deity--who is, as it were, a 
seed--possessed a more productive power than the rest, inasmuch as he himself 
who is the immeasurable one, measured himself tenfold in bulk. He, however, who 
in position is second to the primal Deity, has, inasmuch as he is the 
incomprehensible one, comprehended himself sixfold. But he who is now third in 
position is conveyed to an infinite distance, in consequence of the dilatation 
of his brethren. (And when this third AEon) had thrice realized himself in 
thought, he encircled himself with, as it were, some eternal chain of union. 
CHAP. II.--DOCETIC NOTION OF THE INCARNATION; THEIR DOCTRINES OF AEONS; THEIR 
ACCOUNT OF CREATION; THEIR NOTION OF A FIERY GOD. 
And these (heretics) suppose that this is what is spoken by the Saviour: "A 
sower went forth to sow; and that which fell on the fair and good ground 
produced, some a hundred-fold, and some sixty-fold, and some thirty-fold." And 
for this reason, the (Docetic) says, (that the Saviour) has spoken the words, 
"He that hath ears to hear, let him hear," because these (truths)are not 
altogether rumours. All these AEons, both the three and all those infinite 
(AEons which proceed) from these indefinitely, are hermaphrodite AEons. All 
these, then, after they had been increased and magnified, and had sprung from 
that one primary seed, (were actuated by a spirit) of concord and union, and 
they all coalesced into one AEon. And in this manner they begot of a single 
virgin, Mary, a joint offspring, who is a Mediator, (that is,) the Saviour of 
all who are in the (covenant of) mediation. (And this Saviour is,) in every 
respect, coequal in power with the seed of the fig-tree, with the exception that 
he was generated. Whereas that primary seed, from whence the fig-tree sprung, is 
unbegotten. When, therefore, those three AEons were adorned with all virtue and 
with all sanctity, so these teachers suppose, as well as that only begotten 
child--for he alone was begotten by those infinite AEons from three immediately 
concerned in his birth, for three immeasurable AEons being unanimous procreated 
him;-- (after, I say, the AEons and only Son were thus adorned,) the entire 
nature, which is cognised by intellect, was fashioned free from deficiency. Now, 
all those intelligible and eternal (entities) constituted light. Light, however, 
was not devoid of form, nor inoperative, nor in want, as it were, of the 
assistance of any (other power). But (light) proportionately with the multitude 
of those infinite (AEons) indefinitely (generated) in conformity with the 
exemplar of the fig-tree, possesses in itself infinite species of various 
animals indigenous to that quarter of creation, and it shone down upon the 
underlying chaos. And when this (chaos) was simultaneously illuminated, and had 
form imparted to it by those diversified species from above, it derived 
(thereby) solidity, and acquired all those supernal species from the third AEon, 
who had made himself threefold. 
This third AEon, however, beholding all his own distinctive attributes laid 
hold on collectively by the underlying darkness (which was) beneath, and not 
being ignorant of the power of darkness, and at the same time of the security 
and profusion of light, did not allow his brilliant attributes (which he 
derived) from above for any length of time to be snatched away by the darkness 
beneath. But (he acted in quite a contrary manner), for he subjected (darkness) 
to the AEons. After, then, he had formed the firmament over the nether world, 
"he both divided the darkness from the light, and called the light which was 
above the firmament day, and the darkness he called night." When all the 
infinite species, then, as I have said, of the third AEon were intercepted in 
this the lowest darkness, the figure also of the AEon himself, such as he has 
been described, was impressed (upon them) along with the rest (of his 
attributes). (Now this figure is) a life-giving fire, which is generated from 
light, from whence the Great Archon originated. And respecting this (Archon) 
Moses observes: "In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth." Moses 
mentions this fiery God as having spoken from the bush, (batos,) that is, from 
the darkish air. For the whole of the atmosphere that underlies the darkness is 
(batos, i.e.,) a medium for the transmission of light. Now Moses has employed, 
says (the Docetic), the expression batos, because all the species of light pass 
down from above by means of their having the atmosphere as a medium (batos) of 
transmission. And in no less degree is capable of being recognised the Word of 
Jehovah addressed to us from the bush (batos, i.e., an atmospheric medium); for 
voice, as significant (in language) of a meaning, is a reverberation of air, and 
without this (atmosphere) human speech is incapable of being recognised. And not 
only the Word (of Jehovah addressed) to us from the bush (batos), that is, the 
air, legislates and is a fellow-citizen with; but (it does more than this), for 
both odours and colours manifest to us, through the medium of air, their own 
(peculiar) qualities. 
CHAP. III.--CHRIST UNDOES THE WORK OF THE DEMIURGE; DOCETIC ACCOUNT OF THE 
BAPTISM AND DEATH OF JESUS; WHY HE LIVED FOR THIRTY YEARS ON EARTH. 
This fiery deity, then, after he became fire from light, proceeded to create 
the world in the manner which Moses describes. He himself, however, as devoid of 
subsistence, employs the darkness as (his) substance, and perpetually insults 
those eternal attributes of light which, (being) from above, had been laid hold 
on by (the darkness) beneath. Up to the time, therefore, of the appearance of 
the Saviour, there prevailed, by reason of the Deity of fiery light, (that is,) 
the Demiurge, a certain extensive delusion of souls. For the species are styled 
souls, because they are refrigerations from the (AEons) above, and continue in 
darkness. But when (the souls) are altered from bodies to bodies, they remain 
under the guardianship of the Demiurge. And that these things are so, says (the 
Docetic), it is possible also to perceive from Job, when he uses the following 
words: "And I am a wanderer, changing both place after place, and house after 
house." And (we may learn, according to the Docetae, the same) from the 
expressions of the Saviour, "And if ye will receive it, this is Elias that was 
for to come. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear." But by the 
instrumentality of the Saviour this transference of souls from body to body was 
made to cease, and faith is preached for remission of sins. After some such 
manner, that only begotten Son, when He gazes upon the forms of the supernal 
AEons, which were transferred from above into darkish bodies, coming down, 
wished to descend and deliver them. When (the Son), however, became aware that 
the AEons, those (that subsist) collectively, are unable to behold the Pleroma 
of all the AEons, but that in a state of consternation they fear lest they may 
undergo corruption as being themselves perishable, and that they are overwhelmed 
by the magnitude and splendour of power;-- (when the Son, I say, perceived 
this,) He contracted Himself--as it were a very great flash in a very small 
body, nay, rather as a ray of vision condensed beneath the eyelids, and (in this 
condition) He advances forth as far as heaven and the effulgent stars. And in 
this quarter of creation He again collects himself beneath the lids of vision 
according as He wishes it. Now the light of vision accomplishes the same effect; 
for though it is everywhere, and (renders visible) all things, it is yet 
imperceptible to us. We, however, merely see lids of vision, while corners (of 
the eye), a tissue which is broad, tortuous, (and) exceedingly fibrous, a 
membrane of the cornea; and underneath this, the pupil, which is shaped as a 
berry, is net-like and round. (And we observe) whatever other membranes there 
are that belong to the light of the eye, and enveloped in which it lies 
concealed. 
Thus, says (the Docetic), the only-begotten (and) eternal Child from above 
arrayed Himself in a form to correspond with each individual AEon of the three 
AEons; and while he was within the triacontad of AEons, He entered into this 
world just as we have described Him, un noticed, unknown, obscure, and 
disbelieved. In order, therefore, say the Docetae, that He may be clad in the 
darkness that is prevalent in more distant quarters of creation-- (now by 
darkness he means) flesh--an angel journeyed with Him from above, and announced 
the glad tidings to Mary, says (the Docetic), as it has been written. And the 
(child) from her was born, as it has been written. And He who came from above 
put on that which was born; and so did He all things, as it has been written (of 
Him) in the Gospels. He washed in Jordan, and when He was baptized He received a 
figure and a seal in the water of (another spiritual booty beside) the body born 
of the Virgin. (And the object of this was,) when the Archon condemned his own 
peculiar figment (of flesh) to death, (that is,) to the cross, that that soul 
which had been nourished in the body (born of the Virgin) might strip off that 
body and nail it to the (accursed) tree. (In this way the soul) would triumph by 
means of this (body) over principalities and powers, and would not be found 
naked, but would, instead of that flesh, assume the (other) body, which had been 
represented in the water when he was being baptized. This is, says (the 
Docetic), what the Saviour affirms: "Except a man be born of water and spirit, 
be will not enter into the kingdom of heaven, because that which is born of the 
flesh is flesh." From the thirty AEons, therefore, (the Son) assumed thirty 
forms. And for this reason that eternal One existed for thirty years on the 
earth, because each AEon was in a peculiar manner manifested during (his own) 
year. And the souls are all those forms that have been laid hold on by each of 
the thirty AEons; and each of these is so constituted as to discern Jesus, who 
is of a nature (similar to their own). (And it was the nature of this Jesus) 
which that only-begotten and eternal One assumed from everlasting places. These 
(places), however, are diverse. Consequently, a proportionate number of 
heresies, with the utmost emulation, seek Jesus. Now all these heresies have 
their own peculiar Jesus; but he is seen differently according as the place is 
different towards which, he says, each soul is borne and hastens. (Now each 
soul) supposes that (the Jesus seen from its particular place) is alone that 
(Jesus) who is its own peculiar kinsman and fellow-citizen. And on first 
beholding (this Jesus, that soul) recognises Him as its own peculiar brother, 
but the rest as bastards. Those, then, that derive their nature from the places 
below, are not able to see the forms of the Saviour which are above them. Those, 
however, he says, who are from above, from the intermediate decade and the most 
excellent ogdoad--whence, say (the Docetae), we are--have themselves known not 
in part, but entirely, Jesus the Saviour. And those, who are from above, are 
alone perfect, but all the rest are only partially so. 
CHAP. IV.--DOCETIC DOCTRINE DERIVED FROM THE 
GREEK SOPHISTS. 
These (statements), therefore, I consider sufficient to properly-constituted 
minds for the purpose of attaining unto a knowledge of the complicated and 
unstable heresy of the Docetae. (But) those who have propounded attempted 
arguments about inaccessible and incomprehensible Matter, have styled themselves 
Docetae. Now, we consider that some of these are acting foolishly, we will not 
say in appearance, but in reality. At all events, we have proved that a beam 
from such matter is carried in the eye, if by any means they may be enabled to 
perceive it. If, however, they do not (discern it, our object is) that they 
should not make others blind. But the fact is, that the sophists of the Greeks 
in ancient times have previously devised, in many particulars, the doctrines of 
these (Docetae), as it is possible for my readers (who take the trouble) to 
ascertain. These, then, are the opinions propounded by the Docetae. As to what 
likewise, however, are the tenets of Monoimus, we shall not be silent. 
CHAP. V.--MONOIMUS; MAN THE UNIVERSE, ACCORDING TO MONOIMUS; HIS SYSTEM OF 
THE 
MONAD. 
Monoimus the Arabian was far removed from the glory of the high-sounding 
poet. (For Monoimus) supposes that there is some such man as the poet (calls) 
Oceanus, expressing himself somehow thus:- "Oceans, source of gods and source of 
men." 
Changing these (sentiments) into other words, Monoimus says that man is the 
universe. Now the universe is the originating cause of all things, unbegotten, 
incorruptible, (and) eternal. And (he says) that the son of (the) man previously 
spoken of is begotten, and subject to passion, (and) that he is generated 
independently of time. (as well as) undesignedly, (and) without being 
predestinated. For such, he says, is the power of that man. And he being thus 
constituted in power, (Monoimus alleges) that the son was born quicker than 
thought and volition. 

And this, he says, is what has been spoken in the Scriptures, "He was, and 
was generated." And the meaning of this is: Man was, and his son was generated; 
just as one may say, Fire was, and, independently of time, and undesignedly, and 
without being predestinated, light was generated simultaneously with the 
existence of the fire. And this man constitutes a single monad, which is 
uncompounded and indivisible, (and yet at the same time) compounded (and) 
divisible. (And this monad is) in all respects friendly (and) in all respects 
peaceful, in all respects quarrelsome (and) in all respects contentious with 
itself, dissimilar (and) similar. (This monad is likewise,) as it were, a 
certain musical harmony, which comprises all things in itself, as many as one 
may express and may omit when not considering; and it manifests all things, and 
generates all things. This Mother, this Father--two immortal names. As an 
illustration, however, consider, he says, as a greatest image of the perfect 
man, the one jot--that one tittle. And this one tittle is an uncompounded, 
simple, and pure monad, which derives its composition from nothing at all. (And 
yet this tittle is likewise) compounded, multiform, branching into many 
sections, and consisting of many parts. That one indivisible tittle is, he says, 
one tittle of the (letter) iota, with many faces, and innumerable eyes, and 
countless names, and this (tittle) is an image of that perfect invisible man. 
CHAP, VI.--MONOIMUS' "IOTA;" HIS NOTION OF 
THE "SON OF MAN." 
The monad, (that is,) the one tittle, is therefore, he says, also a decade. 
For by the actual power of this one tittle, are produced duad, and triad, and 
tetrad, and pentad, and hexad, and heptad, and ogdoad, and ennead, up to ten. 
For these numbers, he says, are capable of many divisions, and they reside in 
that simple and uncompounded single tittle of the iota. And this is what has 
been declared: "It pleased (God) that all fulness should dwell in the Son of man 
bodily." For such compositions of numbers out of the simple and uncompounded one 
tittle of the iota become, he says, corporeal realities. The Son of man, 
therefore, he says, has been generated from the perfect man, whom no one knew; 
every creature who is ignorant of the Son, however, forms an idea of Him as the 
offspring of a woman. And certain very obscure rays of this Son which approach 
this world, check and control alteration (and) generation. And the beauty of 
that Son of man is up to the present incomprehensible to all men, as many as are 
deceived in reference to the offspring of the woman. Therefore nothing, he says, 
of the things that are in our quarter of creation has been produced by that man, 
nor will aught (of these) ever be (generated from him). All things, however, 
have been produced, not from the entirety, but from some part of that Son of 
man. For he says the Son of man is a jot in one tittle, which proceeds from 
above, is full, and completely replenishes all (rays flowing down from above). 
And it comprises in itself whatever things the man also possesses (who is) the 
Father of the Son of man. 
CHAP. VII.--MONOIMUS ON THE SABBATH; ALLEGORIZES THE ROD OF MOSES; NOTION 
CONCERNING THE DECALOGUE. 
The world, then, as Moses says, was made in six days, that is, by six powers, 
which (are inherent) in the one tittle of the iota. (But) the seventh (day, 
which is) a rest and Sabbath, has been produced from the Hebdomad, which is over 
earth, and water, and fire, and air. And from these (elements) the world has 
been formed by the one tittle. For cubes, and octahedrons, and pyramids, and all 
figures similar to these, out of which consist fire, air, water, (and) earth, 
have arisen from numbers which are comprehended in that simple tittle of the 
iota. And this (tittle) constitutes a perfect son of a perfect man. When, 
therefore, he says, Moses mentions that the rod was changeably brandished for 
the (introduction of the) plagues throughout Egypt --now these plagues, he says, 
are allegorically expressed symbols of the creation --he did not (as a symbol) 
for more plagues than ten shape the rod. Now this (rod) constitutes one tittle 
of the iota, and is (both) twofold (and) various. This succession of ten plagues 
is, he says, the mundane creation. For all things, by being stricken, bring 
forth and bear fruit, just like vines. Man, he says, bursts forth, and is 
forcibly separated from man by being severed by a certain stroke. (And this 
takes place) in order that (man) may be generated, and may declare the law which 
Moses ordained, who received from God. Conformably with that one tittle, the law 
constitutes the series of the ten commandments which expresses allegorically the 
divine mysteries of (those) precepts. For, he says, all knowledge of the 
universe is contained in what relates to the succession of the ten plagues and 
the series of the ten commandments. And no one is acquainted with this 
(knowledge) who is (of the number) of those that are deceived concerning the 
offspring of the woman. If, however, you say that the Pentateuch constitutes the 
entire law, it is from the Pentad which is comprehended in the one tittle. But 
the entire is for those who have not been altogether perfected in understanding 
a mystery, a new and not antiquated feast, legal, (and) everlasting, a passover 
of the Lord God kept unto our generations, by those who are able to discern 
(this mystery), at the commencement of the fourteenth day, which is the 
beginning of a decade from which, he says, they reckon. For the monad, as far as 
fourteen, is the summary of that one (tittle) of the perfect number. For one, 
two, three, four, become ten; and this is the one tittle. But from fourteen 
until one-and-twenty, he asserts that there is an Hebdomad which inheres in the 
one tittle of the world, and constitutes an unleavened creature in all these. 
For in what respect, he says, would the one tittle require any substance such as 
leaven (derived) from without for the Lord's Passover, the eternal feast, which 
is given for generation upon generation? For the entire world and all causes of 
creation constitute a passover, (i.e.,) a feast of the Lord. For God rejoices in 
the conversion of the creation, and this is accomplished by ten strokes of the 
one tittle. And this (tittle) is Moses' rod, which was given by God into the 
hand of Moses. And with this (rod Moses) smites the Egyptians, for the purpose 
of altering bodies,--as, for instance, water into blood; and the rest of 
(material) things similarly with these,-- (as, for example,) the locusts, which 
is a symbol of grass. And by this he means the alteration of the elements into 
flesh; "for all flesh," he says, "is grass." These men, nevertheless receive 
even the entire law after some such manner; adopting very probably, as I think, 
the opinions of those of the Greeks who affirm that there are Substance, and 
Quality, and Quantity, and Relation, and Place, and Time, and Position, and 
Action, and Possession, and Passion. 
CHAP. VIII.--MONOIMUS EXPLAINS HIS OPINIONS IN A LETTER TO THEOPHRASTUS; 
WHERE TO FIND GOD; HIS SYSTEM DERIVED FROM PYTHAGORAS. 
Monoimus himself, accordingly, in his letter to Theophrastus, expressly makes 
the following statement: "Omitting to seek after God, and creation, and things 
similar to these, seek for Him from (out of) thyself, and learn who it is that 
absolutely appropriates (unto Himself) all things in thee, and says, 'My God my 
mind, my understanding, my soul, my body.' And learn from whence are sorrow, and 
joy, and love, and hatred, and involuntary wakefulness, and involuntary 
drowsiness, and involuntary anger, and involuntary affection; and if," he says, 
"you accurately investigate these (points), you will discover (God) Himself, 
unity and plurality, in thyself, according to that tittle, and that He finds the 
outlet (for Deity) to be from thyself." Those (heretics), then, (have made) 
these (statements). But we are under no necessity of comparing such (doctrines) 
with what have previously been subjects of meditation on the part of the Greeks, 
inasmuch as the assertions advanced by these (heretics) evidently derive their 
origin from geometrical and arithmetical art. The disciples, however, of 
Pythagoras, expounded this (art) after a more excellent method, as our readers 
may ascertain by consulting those passages (of our work) in which we have 
previously furnished expositions of the entire wisdom of the Greeks. But since 
the heresy of Monoimus has been sufficiently refuted, let us see what are the 
fictitious doctrines which the rest also (of these heretics) devise, in their 
desire to set up for themselves an empty name. 
CHAP. IX.--TATIAN. 
Tatian, however, although being himself a disciple of Justinus the Martyr, 
did not entertain similar opinions with his master. But he attempted (to 
establish) certain novel (tenets), and affirmed that there existed certain 
invisible AEons. And he framed a legendary account (of them), similarly to those 
(spoken of) by Valentinus. And similarly with Marcion, he asserts that marriage 
is destruction. But he alleges that Adam is not saved on account of his having 
been the author of disobedience. And so far for the doctrines of Tatian. 
CHAP. X.--HERMOGENES; ADOPTS THE SOCRATIC PHILOSOPHY; HIS NOTION CONCERNING 
THE BIRTH AND BODY OF OUR LORD. 
But a certain Hermogenes, himself also imagining that he propounded some 
novel opinion, said that God made all things out of coeval and ungenerated 
matter. For that it was impossible that God could make generated things out of 
things that are not. And that God is always 
Lord, and always Creator, and matter always a subservient (substance), and 
that which is assuming phases of being--not, however, the whole of it. For when 
it was being continually moved in a rude and disorderly manner, He reduced 
(matter) into order by the following expedient. As He gazed (upon matter) in a 
seething condition, like (the contents of) a pot when a fire is burning 
underneath, He effected a partial separation. And taking one portion from the 
whole, He subdued it, but another He allowed to be whirled in a disorderly 
manner. And he asserts that what was (thus) subdued is the world, but that 
another portion remains wild, and is denominated chaotic matter. He asserts that 
this constitutes the substance of all things, as if introducing a novel tenet 
for his disciples. He does not, however, reflect that this happens to be the 
Socratic discourse, which (indeed) is worked out more elaborately by Plato than 
by Hermogenes. He acknowledges, however, that Christ is the Son of the God who 
created all things; and along with (this admission), he confesses that he was 
born of a virgin and of (the) Spirit, according to the voice of the Gospels. And 
(Hermogenes maintains that Christ), after His passion, was raised up in a body, 
and that He appeared to His disciples, and that as He went up into heaven He 
left His body in the sun, but that He Himself proceeded on to the Father. Now 
(Hermogenes) resorts to testimony, thinking to support himself by what is 
spoken, (viz.) what the Psalmist David says: "In the sun he hath placed his 
tabernacle, and himself as a bridegroom coming forth from his nuptial chamber, 
(and) he will rejoice as a giant to run his course." These, then, are the 
opinions which also Hermogenes attempted to establish. 
CHAP. XI.--THE QUARTODECIMANS. 
And certain other (heretics), contentious by nature, (and) wholly uniformed 
as regards knowledge, as well as in their manner more (than usually) 
quarrelsome, combine (in maintaining) that Easter should be kept on the 
fourteenth day of the first month, according to the commandment of the law, on 
whatever day (of the week) it should occur. (But in this) they only regard what 
has been written in the law, that he will be accursed who does not so keep (the 
commandment) as it is enjoined. They do not, however, attend to this (fact), 
that the legal enactment was made for Jews, who in times to come should kill the 
real Passover. And this (paschal sacrifice, in its efficacy,) has spread unto 
the Gentiles, and is discerned by faith, and not now observed in letter 
(merely). They attend to this one commandment, and do not look unto what has 
been spoken by the apostle: "For I testify to every man that is circumcised, 
that he is a debtor to keep the whole law." In other respects, however, these 
consent to all the traditions delivered to the Church by the Apostles. 
CHAP. XII.--THE MONTANISTS; PRISCILLA AND MAXIMILLA THEIR PROPHETESSES; SOME 
OF THEM NOETIANS. 
But there are others who themselves are even more heretical in nature (than 
the foregoing). and are Phrygians by birth. These have been rendered victims of 
error from being previously captivated by (two) wretched women, called a certain 
Priscilla and Maximilla, whom they supposed (to be) prophetesses. And they 
assert that into these the Paraclete Spirit had departed; and antecedently to 
them, they in like manner consider Montanus as a prophet. And being in 
possession of an infinite number of their books, (the Phrygians) are overrun 
with delusion; and they do not judge whatever statements are made by them, 
according to (the criterion of) reason; nor do they give heed unto those who are 
competent to decide; but they are heedlessly swept onwards, by the reliance 
which they place on these (impostors). And they allege that they have learned 
something more through these, than from law, and prophets, and the Gospels. But 
they magnify these wretched women above the Apostles and every gift of Grace, so 
that some of them presume to assert that there is in them a something superior 
to Christ. These acknowledge God to be the Father of the universe, and Creator 
of all things, similarly with the Church, and (receive) as many things as the 
Gospel testifies concerning Christ. They introduce, however, the novelties of 
fasts, and feasts, and meals of parched food, and repasts of radishes, alleging 
that they have been instructed by women. And some of these assent to the heresy 
of the Noetians, and affirm that the Father himself is the Son, and that this 
(one) came under generation, and suffering, and death. Concerning these I shall 
again offer an explanation, after a more minute manner; for the heresy of these 
has been an occasion of evils to many. We therefore are of opinion, that the 
statements made concerning these (heretics) are sufficient when we shall have 
briefly proved to all that the majority of their books are silly, and their 
attempts (at reasoning) weak, and worthy of no consideration. But it is not 
necessary for those who possess a sound mind to pay attention (either to their 
volumes or their arguments). 
CHAP. XIII.--THE DOCTRINES OF THE ENCRATITES. 
Others, however, styling themselves Encratites, acknowledge some things 
concerning God and Christ in like manner with the Church. In respect, however, 
of their mode of life, they pass their days inflated with pride. They suppose, 
that by meats they magnify themselves, while abstaining from animal food, (and) 
being water-drinkers, and forbidding to marry, and devoting themselves during 
the remainder of life to habits of asceticism. But persons of this description 
are estimated Cynics rather than Christians, inasmuch as they do not attend unto 
the words spoken against them through the Apostle Paul. Now he, predicting the 
novelties that were to be hereafter introduced ineffectually by certain 
(heretics), made a statement thus: "The Spirit speaketh expressly, In the latter 
times certain will depart from sound doctrine, giving heed to seducing spirits 
and doctrines of devils, uttering falsehoods in hypocrisy, having their own 
conscience seared with a hot iron, forbidding to marry, to abstain from meats, 
which God has created to be partaken of with thanksgiving by the faithful, and 
those who know the truth; because every creature of God is good, and nothing to 
be rejected which is received with thanksgiving; for it is sanctified by the 
word of God and prayer." This voice, then, of the blessed Paul, is sufficient 
for the refutation of those who live in this manner, and plume themselves on 
being just; (and) for the purpose of proving that also, this (tenet of the 
Encratites) constitutes a heresy. But even though there have been denominated 
certain other heresies--I mean those of the Cainites, Ophites, or Noachites, and 
of others of this description--I have not deemed it requisite to explain the 
things said or done by these, test on this account they may consider themselves 
somebody, or deserving of consideration. Since, however, the statements 
concerning these appear to be sufficient, let us pass on to the cause of evils 
to all, (viz.,) the heresy of the Noetians. Now, after we have laid bare the 
root of this (heresy), and stigmatized openly the venom, as it were, lurking 
within it, let us seek to deter from an error of this description those who have 
been impelled into it by a violent spirit, as it were by a swollen torrent. 


