
Hippolytus of Rome












HIPPOLYTUS OF ROME
THE REFUTATION OF ALL HERESIES 
BOOK IX. 
The following are the contents of the ninth book of the Refutation of all 
Heresies:- What the blasphemous folly is of Noetus, and that he devoted himself 
to the tenets of Heraclitus the Obscure, not to those of Christ. 
And how Callistus, intermingling the heresy of Cleomenes, the disciple of 
Noetus, with that of Theodotus, constructed another more novel heresy, and what 
sort the life of this (heretic) was. 
What was the recent arrival (at Rome) of the strange spirit Elchasai, and 
that there served as a concealment of his peculiar errors his apparent adhesion 
to the law, when in point of fact he devotes himself to the tenets of the 
Gnostics, or even of the astrologists, and to the arts of sorcery. 
What the customs of the Jews are, and how many diversities of opinion there 
are (amongst them). 
CHAP. I.--AN ACCOUNT OF CONTEMPORANEOUS 
HERESY. 
A lengthened conflict, then, having been maintained concerning all heresies 
by us who, at all events, have not left any unrefuted, the greatest struggle now 
remains behind, viz., to furnish an account and refutation of those heresies 
that have sprung up in our own day, by which certain ignorant and presumptuous 
men have attempted to scatter abroad the Church, and have introduced the 
greatest confusion among all the faithful throughout the entire world. For it 
seems expedient that we, making an onslaught upon the opinion which constitutes 
the prime source of (contemporaneous) evils, should prove what are the 
originating principles of this (opinion), in order that its offshoots, becoming 
a matter of general notoriety, may be made the object of universal scorn. 
CHAP, II.--SOURCE OF THE HERESY OF NOETUS; CLEOMENES HIS DISCIPLE; ITS 
APPEARANCE AT ROME DURING THE EPISCOPATES OF ZEPHYRINUS AND CALLISTUS; 
NOETIANISM OPPOSED AT ROME BY HIPPOLYTUS. 
There has appeared one, Noetus by name, and by birth a native of Smyrna. This 
person introduced a heresy from the tenets of Heraclitus. Now a certain man 
called Epigonus becomes his minister and pupil, and this person during his 
sojourn at Rome disseminated his godless opinion. But Cleomenes, who had become 
his disciple, an alien both in way of life and habits from the Church, was wont 
to corroborate the (Noetian) doctrine. At that time, Zephyrinus imagines that he 
administers the affairs of the Church --an uninformed and shamefully corrupt 
man. And he, being persuaded by proffered gain, was accustomed to connive at 
those who were present for the purpose of becoming disciples of Cleomenes. But 
(Zephyrinus) himself, being in process of time enticed away, hurried headlong 
into the same opinions; and he had Callistus as his adviser, and a 
fellow-champion of these wicked tenets. But the life of this (Callistus), and 
the heresy invented by him, I shall after a little explain. The school of these 
heretics during the succession of such bishops, continued to acquire strength 
and augmentation, from the fact that Zephyrinus and Callistus helped them to 
prevail. Never at any time, however, have we been guilty of collusion with them; 
but we have frequently offered them opposition, and have refuted them, and have 
forced them reluctantly to acknowledge the truth. And they, abashed and 
constrained by the truth, have confessed their errors for a short period, but 
after a little, wallow once again in the same mire. 

CHAP. III.--NOETIANISM AN OFFSHOOT FROM THE 
HERACLITIC PHILOSOPHY. 
But since we have exhibited the succession of their genealogy, it seems 
expedient next that we should also explain the depraved teaching involved in 
their doctrines. For this purpose we shall first adduce the opinions advanced by 
Heraclitus "the Obscure," and we shall next make manifest what are the portions 
of these opinions that are of Heraclitean origin. Such parts of their system its 
present champions are not aware belong to the "Obscure" philosopher, but they 
imagine them to belong to Christ. But if they might happen to fall in with the 
following observations, perhaps they thus might be put out of countenance, and 
induced to desist from this godless blasphemy of theirs. Now, even though the 
opinion of Heraclitus has been expounded by us previously in the Philosophumena, 
it nevertheless seems expedient now also to set down side by side in contrast 
the two systems, in order that by this closer refutation they may be evidently 
instructed. I mean the followers of this (heretic), who imagine themselves to be 
disciples of Christ, when in reality they are not so, but of" the Obscure." 
CHAP. IV.--AN ACCOUNT OF THE SYSTEM OF 
HERACLITUS. 
Heraclitus then says that the universe is one, divisible and indivisible; 
generated and ungenerated; mortal and immortal; reason, eternity; Father, Son, 
and justice, God. "For those who hearken not to me, but the doctrine, it is wise 
that they acknowledge all things to be one," says Heraclitus; and because all do 
not know or confess this, he utters a reproof somewhat in the following terms: 
"People do not understand how what is diverse (nevertheless) coincides with 
itself, just like the inverse harmony of a bow and lyre." But that Reason always 
exists, inasmuch as it constitutes the universe, and as it pervades all things, 
he affirms in this manner. "But in regard of this Reason, which always exists, 
men are continually devoid of understanding, both before they have heard of it 
and in first gearing of it. For though all things take place according to this 
Reason, they seem like persons devoid of any experience regarding it. Still they 
attempt both words and works of such a description as I am giving an account of, 
by making a division according to nature, and declaring how things are." And 
that a Son is the universe and throughout endless ages an eternal king of all 
things, he thus asserts: "A sporting child, playing at his dice, is eternity; 
the kingdom is that of a child." And that the Father of all things that have 
been generated is an unbegotten creature who is creator, let us hear Heraclitus 
affirming in these words: "Contrariety is a progenitor of all things, and king 
of all; and it exhibited some as gods, but others as men, and made some slaves, 
whereas others free." And (he likewise affirms) that there is" a harmony, as in 
a bow and lyre." That obscure harmony (is better), though unknown and invisible 
to men, he asserts in these words: "An obscure harmony is preferable to an 
obvious one." He commends and admires before what is known, that which is 
unknown and invisible in regard of its power. And that harmony visible to men, 
and not incapable of being discovered, is better, he asserts in these words: 
"Whatever things are objects of vision, hearing, and intelligence, these I 
pre-eminently honour," he says; that is, he prefers things visible to those that 
are invisible. From such expressions of his it is easy to understand the spirit 
of his philosophy. "Men," he says, "are deceived in reference to the knowledge 
of manifest things similarly with Homer, who was wiser than all the Greeks For 
even children killing vermin deceived him, when they said, 'What we have seen 
and seized, these we leave behind; whereas what we neither have seen nor seized, 
these we carry away.'" 
CHAP. V.--HERACLITUS' ESTIMATE OF HESIOD; PARADOXES OF HERACLITUS; HIS 
ESCHATOLOGY; THE HERESY OF NOETUS OF HERACLITEAN ORIGIN; NOETUS' VIEW OF THE 
BIRTH AND PASSION OF OUR LORD. 
In this manner Heraclitus assigns to the visible an equality of position and 
honour with the invisible, as if what was visible and what was invisible were 
confessedly some one thing. For he says, "An obscure harmony is preferable to an 
obvious one;" and, "Whatsoever things are objects of vision, hearing, and 
intelligence," that is, of the (corporeal) organs,--"these," he says, "I 
pre-eminently honour," not (on this occasion, though previously), having 
pre-eminently honoured invisible things. Therefore neither darkness, nor light, 
nor evil, nor good, Heraclitus affirms, is different, but one and the same 
thing. At all events, he censures Hesiod because he knew not day and night. For 
day, he says, and night are one, expressing himself somehow thus: "The teacher, 
however, of a vast amount of information is Hesiod, and people suppose this poet 
to be possessed of an exceedingly large store of knowledge, and yet he did not 
know (the nature of) day and night, for they are one." As regards both what is 
good and what is bad, (they are, according to Heraclitus, likewise) one. 
"Physicians, undoubtedly," says Heraclitus, "when they make incisions and 
cauterize, though in every respect they wickedly torture the sick, complain that 
they do not receive fitting remuneration from their patients, notwithstanding 
that they perform these salutary operations upon diseases." And both straight 
and twisted are, he says, the same. "The way is straight and curved of the 
carders of wool;" and the circular movement of an instrument in the fuller's 
shop called "a screw" is straight and curved, for it revolves up and circularly 
at the same time. "One and the same," he says, "are, therefore, straight and 
curved." And upward and downward, he says, are one and the same. "The way up and 
the way down are the same." And he says that what is filthy and what is pure are 
one and the same, and what is drinkable and unfit for drink are one and the 
same. "Sea," he says, "is water very pure and very foul, drinkable to fishes no 
doubt, and salutary for them, but not fit to be used as drink by men, and (for 
them) pernicious." And, confessedly, he asserts that what is immortal is mortal, 
and that what is mortal is immortal, in the following expressions: "Immortals 
are mortal, and mortals are immortal, that is, when the one derive life from 
death, and the other death from life." And he affirms also that there is a 
resurrection of this palpable flesh in which we have been born; and he knows God 
to be the cause of this resurrection, expressing himself in this manner: "Those 
that are here will God enable to arise and become guardians of quick and dead." 
And he likewise affirms that a judgment of the world and all things in it takes 
place by fire, expressing himself thus: "Now, thunder pilots all things," that 
is, directs them, meaning by the thunder everlasting fire. But he also asserts 
that this fire is endued with intelligence, and a cause of the management of the 
Universe, and he denominates it craving and satiety. Now craving is, according 
to him, the arrangement of the world, whereas satiety its destruction. "For," 
says he, "the fire, coming upon the earth, will judge and seize all things." 
But in this chapter Heraclitus simultaneously explains the entire peculiarity 
of his mode of thinking, but at the same time the (characteristic quality) of 
the heresy of Noetus. And I have briefly demonstrated Noetus to be not a 
disciple of Christ, but of Heraclitus. For this philosopher asserts that the 
primal world is itself the Demiurge and creator of itself in the following 
passage: "God is day, night; winter, summer; war, peace; surfeit, famine." All 
things are contraries--this appears his meaning--"but an alteration takes place, 
just as if incense were mixed with oilier sorts of incense, but denominated 
according to the pleasurable sensation produced by each sort. Now it is evident 
to all that the silly successors of Noetus, and the champions of his heresy, 
even though they have not been hearers of the discourses of Heraclitus, 
nevertheless, at any rate when they adopt the opinions of Noetus, undisguisedly 
acknowledge these (Heraclitean) tenets. For they advance statements after this 
manner--that one and the same God is the Creator and Father of all things; and 
that when it pleased Him, He nevertheless appeared, (though invisible,) to just 
men of old. For when He is not seen He is invisible; and He is incomprehensible 
when He does not wish to be comprehended, but comprehensible when he is 
comprehended. Wherefore it is that, according to the same account, He is 
invincible and vincible, unbegotten and begotten, immortal and mortal. How shall 
not persons holding this description of opinions be proved to be disciples of 
Heraclitus? Did not (Heraclitus) the Obscure anticipate Noetus in framing a 
system of philosophy, according to identical modes of expression? 
Now, that Noetus affirms that the Son and Father are the same, no one is 
ignorant. But he makes his statement thus: "When indeed, then, the Father had 
not been born, He yet was justly styled Father; and when it pleased Him to 
undergo generation, having been begotten, He Himself became His own Son, not 
another's." For in this manner he thinks to establish the sovereignty of God, 
alleging that Father and Son, so called, are one and the same (substance), not 
one individual produced from a different one, but Himself from Himself; and that 
He is styled by name Father and Son, according to vicissitude of times. But that 
He is one who has appeared (amongst us), both having submitted to generation 
from a virgin, and as a man having held converse among men. And, on account of 
the birth that had taken place, He confessed Himself to those beholding Him a 
Son, no doubt; yet He made no secret to those who could comprehend Him of His 
being a Father. That this person suffered by being fastened to the tree, and 
that He commended His spirit unto Himself, having died to appearance, and not 
being (in reality) dead. And He raised Himself up the third day, after having 
been interred in a sepulchre, and wounded with a spear, and perforated with 
nails. Cleomenes asserts, in common with his hand of followers, that this person 
is God and Father of the universe, and thus introduces among many an obscurity 
(of thought) such as we find in the philosophy of Heraclitus. 
CHAP. VI.--CONDUCT OF CALLISTUS AND ZEPHYRINUS IN THE MATTER OF NOETIANISM; 
AVOWED OPINION OF ZEPHYRINUS CONCERNING JESUS CHRIST; DISAPPROVAL OF HIPPOLYTUS; 
AS A CONTEMPORANEOUS EVENT, HIPPOLYTUS COMPETENT TO EXPLAIN IT. 
Callistus attempted to confirm this heresy,--a man cunning in wickedness, and 
subtle where deceit was concerned, (and) who was impelled by restless ambition 
to mount the episcopal throne. Now this man moulded to his purpose Zephyrinus, 
an ignorant and illiterate individual, and one unskilled in ecclesiastical 
definitions. And inasmuch as Zephyrinus was accessible to bribes, and covetous, 
Callistus, by luring him through presents, and by illicit demands, was enabled 
to seduce him into whatever course of action he pleased. And so it was that 
Callistus succeeded in inducing Zephyrinus to create continually disturbances 
among the brethren, while he himself took care subsequently, by knavish words, 
to attach both factions in good-will to himself. And, at one time, to those who 
entertained true opinions, he would in private allege that they held similar 
doctrines (with himself), and thus make them his dupes; while at another time he 
would act similarly towards those (who embraced) the tenets of Sabellius. But 
Callistus perverted Sabellius himself, and this, too, though he had the ability 
of rectifying this heretic's error. For (at any time) during our admonition 
Sabellius did not evince obduracy; but as long as he continued alone with 
Callistus, he was wrought upon to relapse into the system of Cleomenes by this 
very Callistus, who alleges that he entertains similar opinions to Cleomenes. 
Sabellius, however, did not then perceive the knavery of Callistus; but he 
afterwards came to be aware of it, as I shall narrate presently. 
Now Callistus brought forward Zephyrinus himself, and induced him publicly to 
avow the following sentiments: "I know that there is one God, Jesus Christ; nor 
except Him do I know any other that is begotten and amenable to suffering." And 
on another occasion, when he would make the following statement: "The Father did 
not die, but the Son." Zephyrinus would in this way continue to keep up 
ceaseless disturbance among the people. And we, becoming aware of his 
sentiments, did not give place to him, but reproved and withstood him for the 
truth's sake. And he hurried headlong into folly, from the fact that all 
consented to his hypocrisy--we, however, did not do so--and called us 
worshippers of two gods, disgorging, independent of compulsion, the venom 
lurking within him. It would seem to us desirable to explain the life of this 
heretic, inasmuch as he was born about the same time with ourselves, in order 
that, by the exposure of the habits of a person of this description, the heresy 
attempted to be established by him may be easily known, and may perchance be 
regarded as silly, by those endued with intelligence. This Callistus became a 
"martyr" at the period when Fuscianus was prefect of Rome, and the mode of his 
"martyrdom" was as follows. 
CHAP. VII.--THE PERSONAL HISTORY OF CALLISTUS; HIS OCCUPATION AS A BANKER; 
FRAUD ON CARPOPHORUS; CALLISTUS ABSCONDS; ATTEMPTED SUICIDE; CONDEMNED TO THE 
TREADMILL; RE-CONDEMNATION BY ORDER OF THE PREFECT FUSCIANUS; BANISHED TO 
SARDINIA; RELEASE OF CALLISTUS BY THE INTERFERENCE 

OF MARCION; CALLISTUS ARRIVES AT ROME; POPE VICTOR REMOVES CALLISTUS TO 
ANTIUM; RETURN OF CALLISTUS ON VICTOR'S DEATH; ZEPHYRINUS FRIENDLY TO HIM; 
CALLISTUS ACCUSED BY SABELLIUS; HIPPOLYTUS' ACCOUNT OF THE OPINIONS OF 
CALLISTUS; THE CALLISTIAN SCHOOL AT ROME, AND ITS PRACTICES; THIS SECT IN 
EXISTENCE IN HIPPOLYTUS' TIME. 
Callistus happened to be a domestic of one Carpophorus, a man of the faith 
belonging to the household of Caesar. To this Callistus, as being of the faith, 
Carpophorus committed no inconsiderable amount of money, and directed him to 
bring in profitable returns from the banking business. And he, receiving the 
money, tried (the experiment of) a bank in what is called the Piscina Publica. 
And in process of time were entrusted to him not a few deposits by widows and 
brethren, under the ostensive cause of lodging their money with Carpophorus. 
Callistus, however, made away with all (the moneys committed to him), and became 
involved in pecuniary difficulties. And after having practised such conduct as 
this, there was not wanting one to tell Carpophorus, and the latter stated that 
he would require an account from him. 
Callistus, perceiving these things, and suspecting danger from his master, 
escaped away by stealth, directing his flight towards the sea. And finding a 
vessel in Portus ready for a voyage, he went on board, intending to sail 
wherever she happened to be bound for. But not even in this way could he avoid 
detection, for there was not wanting one who conveyed to Carpophorus 
intelligence of what had taken place. But Carpophorus, in accordance with the 
information he had received, at once repaired to the harbour (Portus), and made 
an effort to hurry into the vessel after Callistus. The boat, however, was 
anchored in the middle of the harbour; and as the ferryman was slow in his 
movements, Callistus, who was in the ship, had time to descry his master at a 
distance. And knowing that himself would be inevitably captured, he became 
reckless of life; and, considering his affairs to be in a desperate condition, 
he proceeded to cast himself into the sea. But the sailors leaped into boats and 
drew him out, unwilling to come, while those on shore were raising a loud cry. 
And thus Callistus was handed over to his master, and brought to Rome, and his 
master lodged him in the Pistrinum. 
But as time wore on, as happens to take place in such cases, brethren 
repaired to Carpophorus, and entreated him that he would release the fugitive 
serf from punishment, on the plea of their alleging that Callistus acknowledged 
himself to have money lying to his credit with certain persons. But Carpophorus, 
as a devout man, said he was indifferent regarding his own property, but that he 
felt a concern for the deposits; for many shed tears as they remarked to him, 
that they had committed what they had entrusted to Callistus, under the 
ostensive cause of lodging the money with himself. And Carpophorus yielded to 
their persuasions, and gave directions for the liberation of Callistus. The 
latter, however, having nothing to pay, and not being able again to abscond, 
from the fact of his being watched, planned an artifice by which he hoped to 
meet death. Now, pretending that he was repairing as it were to his creditors, 
he hurried on their Sabbath-day to the synagogue of the Jews, who were 
congregated, and took his stand, and created a disturbance among them. They, 
however, being disturbed by him, offered him insult, and inflicted blows upon 
him, and dragged him before Fuscianus, who was prefect of the city. And (on 
being asked the cause of such treatment), they replied in the following terms: 
"Romans have conceded to us the privilege of publicly reading those laws of ours 
that have been handed down from our fathers. This person, however, by coming 
into (our place of worship), prevented (us so doing), by creating a disturbance 
among us, alleging that he is a Christian." And Fuscianus happens at the time to 
be on the judgment-seat; and on intimating his indignation against Callistus, on 
account of the statements made by the Jews, there was not wanting one to go and 
acquaint Carpophorus concerning these transactions. And he, hastening to the 
judgment-seat of the prefect, exclaimed, "I implore of you, my lord Fuscianus, 
believe not thou this fellow; for he is not a Christian, but seeks occasion of 
death, having made away with a quantity of my money, as I shall prove." The 
Jews, however, supposing that this was a stratagem, as if Carpophorus were 
seeking under this pretext to liberate Callistus, with the greater enmity 
clamoured against him in presence of the prefect. Fuscianus, however, was swayed 
by these Jews, and having scourged Callistus, he gave him to be sent to a mine 
in Sardinia. 
But after a time, there being in that place other martyrs, Marcia, a 
concubine of Commodus, who was a God-loving female, and desirous of performing 
some good work, invited into her presence the blessed Victor, who was at that 
time a bishop of the Church, and inquired of him what martyrs were in Sardinia. 
And he delivered to her the names of all, but did not give the name of 
Callistus, knowing the villanous acts he had ventured upon. Marcia, obtaining 
her request from Commodus, hands the letter of emancipation to Hyacinthus, a 
certain eunuch, rather advanced in life. And he, on receiving it, sailed away 
into Sardinia, and having delivered the letter to the person who at that time 
was governor of the territory, he succeeded in having the martyrs released, with 
the exception of Callistus. gut Callistus himself, dropping on his knees, and 
weeping, entreated that he likewise might obtain a release. Hyacinthus, 
therefore, overcome by the captive's importunity, requests the governor to grant 
a release, alleging that permission had been given to himself from Marcia s (to 
liberate Callistus), and that he would make arrangements that there should be no 
risk in this to him. Now (the governor) was persuaded, and liberated Callistus 
also. And when the latter arrived at Rome, Victor was very much grieved at what 
had taken place; but since he was a compassionate man, he took no action in the 
matter. Guarding, however, against the reproach (uttered) by many,--for the 
attempts made by this Callistus were not distant occurrences,--and because 
Carpophorus also still continued adverse, Victor sends Callistus to take up his 
abode in Antium, having settled on him a certain monthly allowance for food. And 
after Victor's death, Zephyrinus, having had Callistus as a fellow-worker in the 
management of his clergy, paid him respect to his own damage; and transferring 
this person from Antium, appointed him over the cemetery. 
And Callistus, who was in the habit of always associating with Zephyrinus, 
and, as I have previously stated, of paying him hypocritical service, disclosed, 
by force contrast, Zephyrinus to be a person able neither to form a judgment of 
things said, nor discerning the design of Callistus, who was accustomed to 
converse with Zephyrinus on topics which yielded satisfaction to the latter. 
Thus, after the death of Zephyrinus, supposing that he had obtained (the 
position) after which he so eagerly pursued, he excommunicated Sabellius, as not 
entertaining orthodox opinions. He acted thus from apprehension of me, and 
imagining that he could in this manner obliterate the charge against him among 
the churches, as if he did not entertain strange opinions. He was then an 
impostor and knave, and in process of time hurried away many with him. And 
having even venom imbedded in his heart, and forming no correct opinion on any 
subject, and yet withal being ashamed to speak the truth, this Callistus, not 
only on account of his publicly saying in the way of reproach to us, "Ye are 
Ditheists," but also on account of his being frequently accused by Sabellius, as 
one that had transgressed his first faith, devised some such heresy as the 
following. Callistus alleges that the Logos Himself is Son, and that Himself is 
Father; and that though denominated by a different title, yet that in reality He 
is one indivisible spirit. And he maintains that the Father is not one person 
and the Son another, but that they are one and the same; and that all things are 
full of the Divine Spirit, both those above and those below. And he affirms that 
the Spirit, which became incarnate in the virgin, is not different from the 
Father, but one and the same. And he adds, that this is what has been declared 
by the Saviour: "Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in 
me?" For that which is seen, which is man, he considers to be the Son; whereas 
the Spirit, which was contained in the Son, to be the Father. "For," says 
(Callistus), "I will not profess belief in two Gods, Father and Son, but in one. 
For the Father, who subsisted in the Son Himself, after He had taken unto 
Himself our flesh, raised it to the nature of Deity, by bringing it into union 
with Himself, and made it one; so that Father and Son must be styled one God, 
and that this Person being one, cannot be two." And in this way Callistus 
contends that the Father suffered along with the Son; for he does not wish to 
assert that the Father suffered, and is one Person, being careful to avoid 
blasphemy against the Father. (How careful he is!) senseless and knavish fellow, 
who improvises blasphemies in every direction, only that he may not seem to 
speak in violation of the truth, and is not abashed at being at one time 
betrayed into the tenet of Sabellius, whereas at another into the doctrine of 
Theodotus. 

The impostor Callistus, having ventured on such opinions, established a 
school of theology in antagonism to the Church, adopting the foregoing system of 
instruction. And he first invented the device of conniving with men in regard of 
their indulgence in sensual pleasures, saying that all had their sins forgiven 
by himself. For he who is in the habit of attending the congregation of any one 
else, and is called a Christian, should he commit any transgression; the sin, 
they say, is not reckoned unto him, provided only he hurries off and attaches 
himself to the school of Callistus. And many persons were gratified with his 
regulation, as being stricken in conscience, and at the same time having been 
rejected by numerous sects; while also some of them, in accordance with our 
condemnatory sentence, had been by us forcibly ejected from the Church. Now such 
disciples as these passed over to these followers of Callistus, and served to 
crowd his school. This one propounded the opinion, that, if a bishop was guilty 
of any sin, if even a sin unto death, he ought not to be deposed. About the time 
of this man, bishops, priests, and deacons, who had been twice married, and 
thrice married, began to be allowed to retain their place among the clergy. If 
also, however, any one who is in holy orders should become married, Callistus 
permitted such a one to continue in holy orders as if he had not sinned. And in 
justification, he alleges that what has been spoken by the Apostle has been 
declared in reference to this person: 
"Who art thou that judgest another man's servant?" But he asserted that 
likewise the parable of the tares is uttered in reference to this one: "Let the 
tares grow along with the wheat;" or, in other words, let those who in the 
Church are guilty of sin remain in it. But also he affirmed that the ark of Noe 
was made for a symbol of the Church, in which were both dogs, and wolves, and 
ravens, and all things clean and unclean; and so he alleges that the case should 
stand in like manner with the Church. And as many parts of Scripture bearing on 
this view of the subject as he could collect, be so interpreted. 
And the hearers of Callistus being delighted with his tenets, continue with 
him, thus mocking both themselves as well as many others, and crowds of these 
dupes stream together into his school. Wherefore also his pupils are multiplied, 
and they plume themselves upon the crowds (attending the school) for the sake of 
pleasures which Christ did not permit. But in contempt of Him, they place 
restraint on the commission of no sin, alleging that they pardon those who 
acquiesce (in Callistus' opinions). For even also he permitted females, if they 
were unwedded, and burned with passion at an age at all events unbecoming, or if 
they were not disposed to overturn their own dignity through a legal marriage, 
that they might have whomsoever they would choose as a bedfellow, whether a 
slave or free, and that a woman, though not legally married, might consider such 
a companion as a husband. Whence women, reputed believers, began to resort to 
drugs for producing sterility, and to gird themselves round, so to expel what 
was being conceived on account of their not wishing to have a child either by a 
slave or by any paltry fellow, for the sake of their family and excessive 
wealth. Behold, into how great impiety that lawless one has proceeded, by 
inculcating adultery and murder at the same time! And withal, after such 
audacious acts, they, lost to all shame, attempt to call themselves a Catholic 
Church! And some, under the supposition that they will attain prosperity, concur 
with them. During the episcopate of this one, second baptism was for the first 
time presumptuously attempted by them. These, then, (are the practices and 
opinions which) that most astonishing Callistus established, whose school 
continues, preserving its customs and tradition, not discerning with whom they 
ought to communicate, but indiscriminately offering communion to all. And from 
him they have derived the denomination of their men; so that, on account of 
Callistus being a foremost champion of such practices, they should be called 
Callistians. 
CHAP. VIII.--SECT OF THE ELCHASAITES; HIPPOLYTUS' OPPOSITION TO IT. 
The doctrine of this Callistus having been noised abroad throughout the 
entire world, a cunning man, and full of desperation, one called Alcibiades, 
dwelling in Apamea, a city of Syria, examined carefully into this business. And 
considering himself a more formidable character, and more ingenious in such 
tricks, than Callistus, he repaired to Rome; and he brought some book, alleging 
that a certain just man, Elchasai, 
had received this from Serae, a town of Parthia, and that he gave it to one 
called Sobiai. And the contents of this volume, he alleged, had been revealed by 
an angel whose height was 24 schoenoi, which make 96 miles, and whose breadth is 
4 schoenoi, and from shoulder to shoulder 6 schoenoi; and the tracks of his feet 
extend to the length of three and a half schoenoi, which are equal to fourteen 
miles, while the breadth is one schoenos and a half, and the height half a 
schoenos. And he alleges that also there is a female with him, whose 
measurement, he says, is according to the standards already mentioned. And he 
asserts that the male (angel) is Son of God, but that the female is called Holy 
Spirit. By detailing these prodigies he imagines that he confounds fools, while 
at the same time he utters the following sentence: "that there was preached unto 
men a new remission of sins in the third year of Trajan's reign." And Elchasai 
determines the nature of baptism, and even this I shall explain. He alleges, as 
to those who have been involved in every description of lasciviousness, and 
filthiness, and in acts of wickedness, if only any of them be a believer, that 
he determines that such a one, on being converted, and obeying the book, and 
believing its contents, should by baptism receive remission of sins. 
Elchasai, however, ventured to continue these knaveries, taking occasion from 
the aforesaid tenet of which Callistus stood forward as a champion. For, 
perceiving that many were delighted at this sort of promise, he considered that 
he could opportunely make the attempt just alluded to. And notwithstanding we 
offered resistance to this, and did not permit many for any length of time to 
become victims of the delusion. For we carried conviction to the people, when we 
affirmed that this was the operation of a spurious spirit, and the invention of 
a heart inflated with pride, and that this one like a wolf had risen up against 
many wandering sheep, which Callistus, by his arts of deception, had scattered 
abroad. But since we have commenced, we shall not be silent as regards the 
opinions of this man. And, in the first place, we shall expose his life, and we 
shall prove that his supposed discipline is a mere pretence. And next, I shall 
adduce the principal heads of his assertions, in order that the reader, looking 
fixedly on the treatises of this (Elchasai), may be made aware what and what 
sort is the heresy which has been audaciously attempted by this man. 
CHAP. IX.--ELCHASAI DERIVED HIS SYSTEM FROM PYTHAGORAS; PRACTISED 
INCANTATIONS. 
This Elchasai puts forward as a decoy a polity (authorized in the) Law, 
alleging that believers ought to be circumcised and live according to the Law, 
(while at the same time) he forcibly rends certain fragments from the aforesaid 
heresies. And he asserts that Christ was born a man in the same way as common to 
all, and that Christ was not for the first time an earth when born of a virgin, 
but that both previously and that frequently again He had been born and would be 
born. Christ would thus appear and exist among us from time to time, undergoing 
alterations of birth, and having his soul transferred from body to body. Now 
Elchasai adopted that tenet of pythagoras to which I have already alluded. But 
the Elchasaites have reached such an altitude of pride, that even they affirm 
themselves to be endued with a power of foretelling futurity, using as a 
starting-point, obviously, the measures and numbers of the aforesaid Pythagorean 
art. These also devote themselves to the tenets of mathematicians, and 
astrologers, and magicians, as if they were true. And they resort to these, so 
as to confuse silly people, thus led to suppose that the heretics participate in 
a doctrine of power. And they teach certain incantations and formularies for 
those who have been bitten by dogs, and possessed of demons, and seized with 
other diseases; and we shall not be silent respecting even such practices of 
these heretics. Having then sufficiently explained their principles, and the 
causes of their presumptuous attempts, I shall pass on to give an account of 
their writings, through which my readers will become acquainted with both the 
trifling and godless efforts of these Elchasaites. 
CHAP. X.--ELCHASAI'S MODE OF ADMINISTERING 
BAPTISM; FORMULARIES. 
To those, then, that have been orally instructed by him, he dispenses baptism 
in this manner, addressing to his dupes some such words as the following: "If, 
therefore, children, one shall have intercourse with any sort of animal 
whatsoever, or a male, or a sister, or a daughter, or hath committed adultery, 
or been guilty of fornication, and is desirous of obtaining remission of sins, 
from the moment that he hearkens to this book let him be baptized a second time 
in the name of the Great and Most High God, and in the name of His Son, the 
Mighty King. And by baptism let him be purified and cleansed, and let him adjure 
for himself those seven witnesses that have been described in this book--the 
heaven, and the water, and the holy spirits, and the angels of prayer, and the 
oil, and the salt, and the earth." These constitute the astonishing mysteries of 
Elchasai, those ineffable and potent secrets which he delivers to deserving 
disciples. And with these that lawless one is not satisfied, but in the presence 
of two and three witnesses he puts the seal to his own wicked practices. Again 
expressing himself thus: "Again I say, O adulterers and adulteresses, and false 
prophets, if you are desirous of being converted, that your sins may be forgiven 
you, as soon as ever you hearken unto this book, and be baptized a second time 
along with your garments, shall peace be yours, and your portion with the just." 
But since we have stated that these resort to incantations for those bitten by 
dogs and for other mishaps, we shall explain these. Now Elchasai uses the 
following formulary: "If a dog rabid and furious, in which inheres a spirit of 
destruction, bite any man, or woman, or youth, or girl, or may worry or touch 
them, in the same hour let such a one run with all their wearing apparel, and go 
down to a river or to a fountain wherever there is a deep spot. Let (him or her) 
be dipped with all their wearing apparel, and offer supplication to the Great 
and Most High God in faith of heart, and then let him thus adjure the seven 
witnesses described in this book: 'Behold, I call to witness the heaven and the 
water, and the holy spirits, and the angels of prayer, and the oil, and the 
salt, and the earth. I testify by these seven witnesses that no more shall I 
sin, nor commit adultery, nor steal, nor be guilty of injustice, nor be 
covetous, nor be actuated by hatred, nor be scornful, nor shall I take pleasure 
in any wicked deeds.' Having uttered, therefore, these words, let such a one be 
baptized with the entire of his wearing apparel in the name of the Mighty and 
Most High God." 
CHAP. XI.--PRECEPTS OF ELCHASAI. 
But in very many other respects he talks folly, inculcating the use of these 
sentences also for those afflicted with consumption, and that they should be 
dipped in cold water forty times during seven days i and he prescribes similar 
treatment for those possessed of devils. Oh inimitable wisdom and incantations 
gorged with powers! Who will not be astonished at such and such force of words? 
But since we have stated that they also bring into requisition astrological 
deceit, we shall prove this from their own formularies; for Elchasai speaks 
thus: "There exist wicked stars of impiety. This declaration has been now made 
by us, O ye pious ones and disciples: beware of the power of the days of the 
sovereignty of these stars, and engage not in the commencement of any 
undertaking during the ruling days of these. And baptize not man or woman during 
the days of the power of these stars, when the moon, (emerging) from among them, 
courses the sky, and travels along with them. Beware of the very day up to that 
on which the moan passes out from these stars, and then baptize and enter on 
every beginning of your works. But, moreover, honour the day of the Sabbath, 
since that day is one of those during which prevails (the power) of these stars. 
Take care, however, not to commence your works the third day from a Sabbath, 
since when three years of the reign of the emperor Trojan are again completed 
from the time that he subjected the Parthians to his own sway,--when, I say, 
three years have been completed, war rages between the impious angels of the 
northern constellations; and on this account all kingdoms of impiety are in a 
state of confusion." 
CHAP. XII.--THE HERESY OF THE ELCHASAITES A 
DERIVATIVE ONE. 
Inasmuch as (Elchasai) considers, then, that it would be an insult to reason 
that these mighty and ineffable mysteries should be trampled under foot, or that 
they should be committed to many, he advises that as valuable pearls they should 
be preserved, expressing himself thus: "Do not recite this account to all men, 
and guard carefully these precepts, because all men are not faithful, nor are 
all women straightforward." Books containing these (tenets), however, neither 
the wise men of the Egyptians secreted in shrines, nor did Pythagoras, a sage of 
the Greeks, conceal them there. For if at that time Elchasai had happened to 
live, what necessity would there be that Pythagoras, or Thales, or Solon, or the 
wise Plato, or even the rest of the sages of the Greeks, should become disciples 
of the Egyptian priests, when they could obtain possession of such and such 
wisdom from Alcibiades, as the most astonishing interpreter of that wretched 
Elchasai? The statements, therefore, that have been made for the purpose of 
attaining a knowledge of the madness of these, would seem sufficient for those 
endued with sound mind. And so it is, that it has not appeared expedient to 
quote more of their formularies, seeing that these are very numerous and 
ridiculous. Since, however, we have not omitted those practices that have risen 
up in our own day, and have not been silent as regards those prevalent before 
our time, it seems proper, in order that we may pass through all their systems, 
and leave nothing untold, to state what also are the (customs) of the Jews, and 
what are the diversities of opinion among them, for I imagine that these as yet 
remain behind for our consideration. Now, when I have broken silence on these 
points, I shall pass on to the demonstration of the Doctrine of the Truth, in 
order that, after the lengthened argumentative straggle against all heresies, 
we, devoutly pressing forward towards the kingdom's crown, and believing the 
truth, may not be unsettled. 
CHAP. XIII.--THE JEWISH SECTS. 
Originally there prevailed but one usage among the Jews; for one teacher was 
given unto them by God, namely Moses, and one law by this same Moses. And there 
was one desert region and one Mount Sinai, for one God it was who legislated for 
these Jews. But, again, after they had crossed the river Jordan, and had 
inherited by lot the conquered country, they in various ways rent in sunder the 
law of God, each devising a different interpretation of the declarations made by 
God. And in this way they raised up for themselves teachers, (and) invented 
doctrines of an heretical nature, and they continued to advance into (sectarian) 
divisions. Now it is the diversity of these Jews that I at present propose to 
explain. But though for even a considerable time they have been rent into very 
numerous sects, yet I intend to elucidate the more principal of them, while 
those who are of a studious turn will easily become acquainted with the rest. 
For there is a division amongst them into three sorts; and the adherents of the 
first are the Pharisees, but of the second the Sadducees, while the rest are 
Essenes. These practise a more devotional life, being filled with mutual love, 
and being temperate. And they turn away from every act of inordinate desire, 
being averse even to hearing of things of the sort. And they renounce matrimony, 
but they take the boys of others, and thus have an offspring begotten for them. 
And they lead these adopted children into an observance of their own peculiar 
customs, and in this way bring them up and impel them to learn the sciences. 
They do not, however, forbid them to marry, though themselves refraining from 
matrimony. Women, however, even though they may be disposed to adhere to the 
same course of life, they do not admit, inasmuch as in no way whatsoever have 
they confidence in women. 
CHAP. XIV.--THE TENETS OF THE ESSENI. 
And they despise wealth, and do not turn away from sharing their goods with 
those that are destitute. No one amongst them, however, enjoys a greater amount 
of riches than another. For a regulation with them is, that an individual coming 
forward to join the sect must sell his possessions, and present the price of 
them to the community. And on receiving the money, the head of the order 
distributes it to all according to their necessities. Thus there is no one among 
them in distress. And they do not use oil, regarding it as a defilement to be 
anointed. And there are appointed overseers, who take care of all things that 
belong to them in common, and they all appear always in white clothing. 
CHAP. XV.--THE TENETS OF THE ESSENI CONTINUED. 
But there is not one city of them, but many of them settle in every city. And 
if any of the adherents of the sect may be present from a strange place, they 
consider that all things are in common for him, and those whom they had not 
previously known they receive as if they belonged to their own household and 
kindred. And they traverse their native land, and on each occasion that they go 
on a journey they carry nothing except arms. And they have also in their cities 
a president, who expends the moneys collected for this purpose in procuring 
clothing and food for them. And their robe and its shape are modest. And they do 
not own two cloaks, or a double set of shoes; and when those that are in present 
use become antiquated, then they adopt others. And they neither buy nor sell 
anything at all; but whatever any one has he gives to him that has not, and that 
which one has not he receives. 
CHAP. XVI.--THE TENETS OF THE ESSENI CONTINUED. 
And they continue in an orderly manner, and with perseverance pray from early 
dawn, and they do not speak a word unless they have praised God in a hymn. And 
in this way they each go forth and engage in whatever employment they please; 
and after having worked up to the fifth hour they leave off. Then again they 
come together into one place, and encircle themselves with linen girdles, for 
the purpose of concealing their private parts. And in this manner they perform 
ablutions in cold water; and after being thus cleansed, they repair together 
into one apartment,--now no one who entertains a different opinion from 
themselves assembles in the house,--and they proceed to partake of breakfast. 
And when they have taken their seats in silence, they set down loaves in order, 
and next some one sort of food to eat along with the bread, and each receives 
from these a sufficient portion. No one, however, tastes these before the priest 
utters a blessing, and prays over the food. And after breakfast, when he has a 
second time offered up supplication, as at the beginning, so at the conclusion 
of their meal they praise God in hymns. Next, after they have laid aside as 
sacred the garments in which they have been clothed while together taking their 
repast within the house-- (now these garments are linen)--and having resumed the 
clothes which they had left in the vestibule, they hasten to agreeable 
occupations until evening. And they partake of supper, doing oil things in like 
manner to those already mentioned. 
And no one will at any time cry aloud, nor will any other tumultuous voice be 
heard. But they each converse quietly, and with decorum one concedes the 
conversation to the other, so that the stillness of those within the house 
appears a sort of mystery to those outside. And they are invariably sober, 
eating and drinking all things by measure. 
CHAP. XVII.--THE TENETS OF THE ESSENI CONTINUED. 
All then pay attention to the president; and whatever injunctions he will 
issue, they obey as law. For they are anxious that mercy and assistance be 
extended to those that are burdened with toil. And especially they abstain from 
wrath and anger, and all such passions, inasmuch as they consider these to be 
treacherous to man. And no one amongst them is in the habit of swearing; but 
whatever any one says, this is regarded more binding than an oath. If, however, 
one will swear, he is condemned as one unworthy of credence. They are likewise 
solicitous about the readings of the law and prophets; and moreover also, if 
there is any treatise of the faithful, about that likewise. And they evince the 
utmost curiosity concerning plants and stones, rather busying themselves as 
regards the operative powers of these, saying that these things were not created 
in vain. 
CHAP. XVIII.--THE TENETS OF THE ESSENI CONTINUED. 
But to those who wish to become disciples of the sect, they do not 
immediately deliver their rules, unless they have previously tried them. Now for 
the space of a year they set before (the candidates) the same food, while the 
latter continue to live in a different house outside the Essenes' own place of 
meeting. And they give (to the probationists) a hatchet and the linen girdle, 
and a white robe. When, at the expiration of this period, one affords proof of 
self-control, he approaches nearer to the sect's method of living, and he is 
washed more purely than before. Not as yet, however, does he partake of food 
along with the Essenes. For, after having furnished evidence as to whether he is 
able to acquire self-control,--but for two years the habit of a person of this 
description is on trial,--and when he has appeared deserving, he is thus 
reckoned amongst the members of the sect. Previous, however, to his being 
allowed to partake of a repast along with them, he is bound under fearful oaths. 
First, that he will worship the Divinity; next, that he will observe just 
dealings with men, and that he will in no way injure any one, and that he will 
not hate a person who injures him, or is hostile to him, but pray for them. He 
likewise swears that he will always aid the just, and keep faith with all, 
especially those who are rulers. For, they argue, a position of authority does 
not happen to any one without God. And if the Essene himself be a ruler, he 
swears that he will not conduct himself at any time arrogantly in the exercise 
of power, nor be prodigal, nor resort to any adornment, or a greater state of 
magnificence than the usage permits. He likewise swears, however, to be a lover 
of truth, and to reprove him that is guilty of falsehood, neither to steal, nor 
pollute his conscience for the sake of iniquitous gain, nor conceal aught from 
those that are members of his sect, and to divulge nothing to others, though one 
should be tortured even unto death. And in addition to the foregoing promises, 
he swears to impart to no one a knowledge of the doctrines in a different manner 
from that in which he has received them himself. 
CHAP. XIX.--THE TENETS OF THE ESSENI CONTINUED. 
With oaths, then, of this description, they bind those who come forward. If, 
however, any one may be condemned for any sin, he is expelled from the order; 
but one that has been thus excommunicated sometimes perishes by an awful death. 
For, inasmuch as he is bound by the oaths and rites of the sect, he is not able 
to partake of the food in use among other people. Those that are excommunicated, 
occasionally, therefore, utterly destroy the body through starvation. And so it 
is, that when it comes to the last the Essenes sometimes pity many of them who 
are at the point of dissolution, inasmuch as they deem a punishment even unto 
death, thus inflicted upon these culprits, a sufficient penalty. 
CHAP. XX.--THE TENETS OF THE ESSENI CONCLUDED. 
But as regards judicial decisions, the Essenes are most accurate and 
impartial. And they de liver their judgments when they have assembled together, 
numbering at the very least one hundred; and the sentence delivered by them is 
irreversible. And they honour the legislator next after God; and if any one is 
guilty of blasphemy against this framer of laws, he is punished. And they are 
taught to yield obedience to rulers and elders; and if ten occupy seats in the 
same room, one of them will not speak unless it will appear expedient to the 
nine. And they are careful not to spit out into the midst of persons present, 
and to the right hand. They are more solicitous, however, about abstaining from 
work on the Sabbath-day than all other Jews. For not only do they prepare their 
victuals for themselves one day previously, so as not (on the Sabbath) to kindle 
a fire, but not even would they move a utensil from one place to another (on 
that day), nor ease nature; nay, some would not even rise from a couch. On other 
days, however, when they wish to relieve nature, they dig a hole a foot long 
with the mattock,--for of this description is the hatchet, which the president 
in the first instance gives those who come forward to gain admission as 
disciples,--and cover (this cavity) on all sides with their garment, alleging 
that they do not necessarily insult the sunbeams. They then replace the upturned 
soil into the pit; and this is their practice, choosing the more lonely spots. 
But after they have performed this operation, immediately they undergo ablution, 
as if the excrement pollutes them. 
CHAP. XXI.--DIFFERENT SECTS OF THE ESSENI. 
The Essenes have, however, in the lapse of time, undergone divisions, and 
they do not preserve their system of training after a similar manner, inasmuch 
as they have been split up into four parties. For some of them discipline 
themselves above the requisite rules of the order, so that even they would not 
handle a current coin of the country, saying that they ought not either to 
carry, or behold, or fashion an image: wherefore no one of those goes into a 
city, lest (by so doing) he should enter through a gate at which statues are 
erected, regarding it a violation of law to pass beneath images. But the 
adherents of another party, if they happen to hear any one maintaining a 
discussion concerning God and His laws--supposing such to be an uncircumcised 
person, they will closely watch him and when they meet a person of this 
description in any place alone, they will threaten to slay him if he refuses to 
undergo the rite of circumcision. Now, if the latter does not wish to comply 
with this request, an Essene spares not, but even slaughters. And it is from 
this occurrence that they have received their appellation, being denominated (by 
some) Zelotae, but by others Sicarii. And the adherents of another party call no 
one Lord except the Deity, even though one should put them to the torture, or 
even kill them. But there are others of a later period, who have to such an 
extent declined from the discipline (of the order), that, as far as those are 
concerned who continue in the primitive customs, they would not even touch 
these. And if they happen to come in contact with them, they immediately resort 
to ablution, as if they had touched one belonging to an alien tribe. But here 
also there are very many of them of so great longevity, as even to live longer 
than a hundred years. They assert, therefore, that a cause of this arises from 
their extreme devotion to religion, and their condemnation of all excess in 
regard of what is served up (as food), and from their being temperate and 
incapable of anger. And so it is that they despise death, rejoicing when they 
can finish their course with a good conscience. If, however, any one would even 
put to the torture persons of this description, in order to induce any amongst 
them either to speak evil of the law, or eat what is offered in sacrifice to an 
idol, he will not effect his purpose; for one of this party submits to death and 
endures torment rather than violate his conscience. 
CHAP. XXII.--BELIEF OF THE ESSENI IN THE RESURRECTION'; THEIR SYSTEM A 
SUGGESTIVE ONE. 
Now the doctrine of the resurrection has also derived support among these; 
for they acknowledge both that the flesh will rise again, and that it will be 
immortal, in the same manner as the soul is already imperishable. And they 
maintain that the soul, when separated in the present life, (departs) into one 
place, which is well ventilated and lightsome, where, they say, it rests until 
judgment. And this locality the Greeks were acquainted with by hearsay, and 
called it "Isles of the Blessed." And there are other tenets of these which many 
of the Greeks have appropriated, and thus have from time to time formed their 
own opinions. For the disciplinary system in regard of the Divinity, according 
to these (Jewish sects), is of greater antiquity than that of all nations. And 
so it is that the proof is at hand, that all those (Greeks) who ventured to make 
assertions concerning God, or concerning the creation of existing things, 
derived their principles from no other source than from Jewish legislation. And 
among these may be particularized Pythagoras especially, and the Stoics, who 
derived (their systems) while resident among the Egyptians, by having become 
disciples of these Jews. Now they affirm that there will be both a judgment and 
a conflagration of the universe, and that the wicked will be eternally punished. 
And among them is cultivated the practice of prophecy, and the prediction of 
future events. 
CHAP. XXIII.--ANOTHER SECT OF THE ESSENI: 
THE PHARISEES. 
There is then another order of the Essenes who use the same customs and 
prescribed method of living with the foregoing sects, but make an alteration 
from these in one respect, viz., marriage. Now they maintain that those who have 
abrogated matrimony commit some terrible offence, which is for the destruction 
of life, and that they ought not to cut off the succession of children; far, 
that if all entertained this opinion, the entire race of men would easily be 
exterminated. However, they make a trial of their betrothed women for a period 
of three years; and when they have been three times purified, with a view of 
proving their ability of bringing forth children, so then they wed. They do not, 
however, cohabit with pregnant women, evincing that they marry not from sensual 
motives, but from the advantage of children. 
And the women likewise undergo ablution in a similar manner (with their 
husbands), and are themselves also arrayed in a linen garment, after the mode in 
which the men are with their girdles. These things, then, are the statements 
which l have to make respecting the Esseni. 
But there are also others who themselves practise the Jewish customs; and 
these, both in respect of caste and in respect of the laws, are called 
Pharisees. Now the greatest part of these is to be found in every locality, 
inasmuch as, though all are styled Jews, yet, on account of the peculiarity of 
the opinions advanced by them, they have been denominated by titles proper to 
each. These, then, firmly hold the ancient tradition, and continue to pursue in 
a disputative spirit a close investigation into the things regarded according to 
the Law as clean and not clean. And they interpret the regulations of the Law, 
and put forward teachers, whom they qualify for giving instruction in such 
things. These Pharisees affirm the existence of fate, and that some things are 
in our power, whereas others are under the control of destiny. In this way they 
maintain that some actions depend upon ourselves, whereas others upon fate. But 
(they assert) that God is a cause of all things, and that nothing is managed or 
happens without His will. These likewise acknowledge that there is a 
resurrection of flesh, and that soul is immortal, and that there will be a 
judgment and conflagration, and that the righteous will be imperishable, but 
that the wicked will endure everlasting punishment in unqenchable fire. 
CHAP. XXIV.--THE SADDUCEES. 
These, then, are the opinions even of the Pharisees. The Sadducees, however, 
are for abolishing fate, and they acknowledge that God does nothing that is 
wicked, nor exercises providence over (earthly concerns); but they contend that 
the choice between good and evil lies within the power of men. And they deny 
that there is a resurrection not only of flesh, but also they suppose that the 
soul does not continue after death. The soul they consider nothing but mere 
vitality, and that it is on account of this that man has been created. However, 
(they maintain) that the notion of the resurrection has been fully realized by 
the single circumstance, that we close our days after having left children upon 
earth. But (they still insist) that after death one expects to suffer nothing, 
either bad or good; for that there will be a dissolution both of soul and body, 
and that man passes into non-existence, similarly also with the material of the 
animal creation. But as regards whatever wickedness a man may have committed in 
life, provided he may have been reconciled to the injured party, he has been a 
gainer (by transgression), inasmuch as he has escaped the punishment (that 
otherwise would have been inflicted) by men. And whatever acquisitions a man may 
have made. and (in whatever respect), by becoming wealthy, he may have acquired 
distinction, he has so far been a gainer. But (they abide by their assertion), 
that God has no solicitude about the concerns of an individual here. And while 
the Pharisees are full of mutual affection, the Sadducees, on the other hand, 
are actuated by self-love. This sect had its stronghold especially in the region 
around Samaria. And these also adhere to the customs of the law, saying that one 
ought so to live, that he may conduct himself virtuously, and leave children 
behind him on earth. They do not, however, devote attention to prophets, but 
neither do they to any other sages, except to the law of Moses only, in regard 
of which, however, they frame no interpretations. These, then, are the opinions 
which also the Sadducees choose to teach. 

CHAP. XXV.--THE JEWISH RELIGION. 
Since, therefore, we have explained even the diversities among the Jews, it 
seems expedient likewise not to pass over in silence the system of their 
religion. The doctrine, therefore, among all Jews on the subject of religion is 
fourfold-theological, natural, moral, and ceremonial. And they affirm that there 
is one God, and that He is Creator and Lord of the universe: that He has formed 
all these glorious works which had no previous existence; and this, too, not out 
of any coeval substance that lay ready at hand, but His Will--the efficient 
cause--was to create, and He did create. And (they maintain) that there are 
angels, and that these have been brought into being for ministering unto the 
creation; but also that there is a sovereign Spirit that always continues beside 
God, for glory and praise. And that all things in the creation are endued with 
sensation, and that there is nothing inanimate. And they earnestly aim at 
serious habits and a temperate life, as one may ascertain from their laws. Now 
these matters have long ago been strictly defined by those who in ancient times 
have received the divinely-appointed law; so that the reader will find himself 
astonished at the amount of temperance, and of diligence, lavished on customs 
legally enacted in reference to man. The ceremonial service, however, which has 
been adapted to divine worship in a manner befitting the dignity of religion, 
has been practised amongst them with the highest degree of elaboration. The 
superiority of their ritualism it is easy for those who wish it to ascertain, 
provided they read the book which furnishes information on these points. They 
will thus perceive how that with solemnity and sanctity the Jewish priests offer 
unto God the first-fruits of the gifts bestowed by Him for the rise and 
enjoyment of men; how they fulfil their ministrations with regularity and 
stedfastness, in obedience to His commandments. There are, however, some 
(liturgical usages adopted) by these, which the Sadducees refuse to recognise, 
for they are not disposed to acquiesce in the existence of angels or spirits. 
Still all parties alike expect Messiah, inasmuch as the Law certainly, and 
the prophets, preached beforehand that He was about to be present on earth. 
Inasmuch, however, as the Jews were not cognizant of the period of His advent, 
there remains the supposition that the declarations (of Scripture) concerning 
His coming have not been fulfilled. And so it is, that up to this day they 
continue in anticipation of the future coming of the Christ,--from the fact of 
their not discerning Him when He was present in the world. And (yet there can be 
little doubt but) that, on beholding the signs of the times of His having been 
already amongst us, the Jews are troubled; and that they are ashamed to confess 
that He has come, since they have with their own hands put Him to death, because 
they were stung with indignation in being convicted by Himself of not having 
obeyed the laws. And they affirm that He who was thus sent forth by God is not 
this Christ (whom they are looking for); but they confess that another Messiah 
will come, who as yet has no existence; and that he will usher in some of the 
signs which the law and the prophets have shown beforehand, whereas, regarding 
the rest (of these indications), they suppose that they have fallen into error. 
For they say that his generation will be from the stock of David, but not from a 
virgin and the Holy Spirit, but from a woman and a man, according as it is a 
rule for all to be procreated from seed. And they allege that this Messiah will 
be King over them,--a warlike and powerful individual, who, after having 
gathered together the entire people of the Jews, and having done battle with all 
the nations, will restore for them Jerusalem the royal city. And into this city 
He will collect together the entire Hebrew race, and bring it back once more 
into the ancient customs, that it may fulfil the regal and sacerdotal functions, 
and dwell in confidence for periods of time of sufficient duration. After this 
repose, it is their opinion that war would next be waged against them after 
being thus congregated; that in this conflict Christ would fall by the edge of 
the sword; and that, after no long time, would next succeed the termination and 
conflagration of the universe; and that in this way their opinions concerning 
the resurrection would receive completion, and a recompense be rendered to each 
man according to his works. 
CHAP. XXVI.--CONCLUSION TO THE WORK EXPLAINED. 
It now seems to us that the tenets of both all the Greeks and barbarians have 
been sufficiently explained by us, and that nothing has remained unrefuted 
either of the points about which philosophy has been busied, or of the 
allegations advanced by the heretics. And from these very explanations the 
condemnation of the heretics is obvious, for having either purloined their 
doctrines, or derived contributions to them from some of those tenets 
elaborately worked out by the Greeks, and for having advanced (these opinions) 
as if they originated from God. Since, therefore, we have hurriedly passed 
through all the systems of these, and with much labour have, in the nine books, 
proclaimed all their opinions, and have left behind us for all men a small 
viaticum in life, and to those who are our contemporaries have afforded a desire 
of learning (with) great joy and delight, we have considered it reasonable, as a 
crowning stroke to the entire work, to introduce the discourse (already 
mentioned) concerning the truth, and to furnish our delineation of this in one 
book, namely the tenth. Our object is, that the reader, not only when made 
acquainted with the overthrow of those who have presumed to establish heresies, 
may regard with scorn their idle fancies, but also, when brought to know the 
power of the truth, may be placed in the way of salvation, by reposing that 
faith in God which He so worthily deserves. 

