
Hippolytus of Rome












HIPPOLYTUS OF ROME
TREATISE ON CHRIST AND ANTICHRIST. 
1. As it was your desire, my beloved brother Theophilus, to be thoroughly 
informed on those topics which I put summarily before you, I have thought it 
right to set these matters of inquiry clearly forth to your view, drawing 
largely from the Holy Scriptures themselves as from a holy fountain, in order 
that you may not only have the pleasure of hearing them on the testimony of men, 
but may also be able, by surveying them in the light of (divine) authority, to 
glorify God in all. For this will be as a sure supply furnished you by us for 
your journey in this present life, so that by ready argument applying things ill 
understood and apprehended by most, you may sow them in the ground of your 
heart, as in a rich and clean soil. By these, too, you will be able to silence 
those who oppose and gainsay the word of salvation. Only see that you do not 
give these things over to unbelieving and blasphemous tongues, for that is no 
common danger. But impart them to pious and faithful men, who desire to live 
holily and righteously with fear. For it is not to no purpose that the blessed 
apostle exhorts Timothy, and says, "O Timothy, keep that which is committed to 
thy trust, avoiding profane and vain babblings, and oppositions of science 
falsely so called; which some professing have erred concerning the faith." And 
again, "Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. 
And the things that thou hast heard of me in many exhortations, the same commit 
thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also." If, then, the 
blessed (apostle) delivered these things with a pious caution, which could be 
easily known by all, as he perceived in the spirit that "all men have not 
faith," how much greater will be our danger, if, rashly and without thought, we 
commit the revelations of God to profane and unworthy men? 
2. For as the blessed prophets were made, so to speak, eyes for us, they 
foresaw through faith the mysteries of the word, and became ministers of these 
things also to succeeding generations, not only reporting the past, but also 
announcing the present and the future, so that the prophet might not appear to 
be one only for the time being, but might also predict the future for all 
generations, and so be reckoned a (true) prophet. For these fathers were 
furnished with the Spirit, and largely honoured by the Word Himself; and just as 
it is with instruments of music, so had they the Word always, like the plectrum, 
in union with them, and when moved by Him the prophets announced what God 
willed. For they spake not of their own power (let there be no mistake as to 
that), neither did they declare what pleased themselves. But First of all they 
were endowed with wisdom by the Word, and then again were rightly instructed in 
the future by means of visions. And then, when thus themselves fully convinced, 
they spake those things which were revealed by God to them alone, and concealed 
from all others. For ith what reason should the prophet be called a prophet, 
unless he in spirit foresaw the future? For if the prophet spake of any chance 
event, he would not be a prophet then in speaking of things which were under the 
eye of all. But one who sets forth in detail things yet to be, was rightly 
judged a prophet. Wherefore prophets were with good reason called from the very 
first "seers." And hence we, too, who are rightly instructed in what was 
declared aforetime by them, speak not of our own capacity. For we do not attempt 
to made any change one way or another among ourselves in the words that were 
spoken of old by them, but we make the Scriptures in which these are written 
public, and read them to those who can believe rightly; for that is a common 
benefit for both parties: for him who speaks, in holding in memory and setting 
forth correctly things uttered of old; and for him who hears, in giving 
attention to the things spoken. 
Since, then, in this there is a work assigned to both parties together, viz., 
to him who speaks, that he speak forth faithfully without regard to risk, and to 
him who hears, that he hear and receive in faith that which is spoken, I beseech 
you to strive together with me in prayer to God. 
3. Do you wish then to know in what manner the Word of God, who was again the 
Son of God, as He was of old the Word, communicated His revelations to the 
blessed prophets in former times? Well, as the Word shows His compassion and His 
denial of all respect of persons by all the saints, He enlightens them and 
adapts them to that which is advantageous for us, like a skilful physician, 
understanding the weakness of men. And the ignorant He loves to teach, and the 
erring He turns again to His own true way. And by those who live by faith He is 
easily found; and to those of pure eye and holy heart, who desire to knock at 
the door, He opens immediately. For He casts away none of His servants as 
unworthy of the divine mysteries. He does not esteem the rich man more highly 
than the poor, nor does He despise the poor man for his poverty. He does not 
disdain the barbarian, nor does He set the eunuch aside as no man. He does not 
hate the female on account of the woman's act of disobedience in the beginning, 
nor does He reject the male on account of the man's transgression. But He seeks 
all, and desires to save all, wishing to make all the children of God, and 
calling all the saints unto one perfect man. For there is also one Son (or 
Servant) of God, by whom we too, receiving the regeneration through the Holy 
Spirit, desire to come all unto one perfect and heavenly man. 
4. For whereas the Word of God was without flesh, He took upon Himself the 
holy flesh by the holy Virgin, and prepared a robe which He wove for Himself, 
like a bridegroom, in the sufferings of the cross, in order that by uniting His 
own power with our moral body, and by mixing the incorruptible with the 
corruptible, and the strong with the weak, He might save perishing man. The 
web-beam, therefore, is the pass on of the Lord upon the cross, and the warp on 
it is the power of the Holy Spirit, and the woof is the holy flesh wrought 
(woven) by the Spirit, and the thread is the grace which by the love of Christ 
binds and unites the two in one, and the combs or (rods) are the Word; and the 
workers are the patriarchs and prophets who weave the fair, long, perfect tunic 
for Christ; and the Word passing through these, like the combs or (rods), 
completes through them that which His Father willeth. 
5. But as time now presses for the consideration of the question immediately 
in hand, and as what has been already said in the introduction with regard to 
the glory of God, may suffice, it is proper that we take the Holy Scriptures 
themselves in hand, and find out from them what, and of what manner, the coming 
of Antichrist is; on what occasion and at what time that implores one shall be 
revealed; and whence and from what I tribe (he shall come); and what his name 
is, which is indicated by the number in the Scripture; and how he shall work 
error among the people, gathering them from the ends of the earth; and (how) he 
shall stir up tribulation and persecution against the saints; and how he shall 
glorify himself as God; and what his end shall be; and how the sudden appearing 
of the Lord shall be revealed froth heaven; and what the conflagration of the 
whole world shall be; and what the glorious and heavenly kingdom of the saints 
is to be, when they reign together with Christ; and what the punishment of the 
wicked by fire. 

6. Now, as our Lord Jesus Christ, who is also God, was prophesied of under 
the figure of a lion, on account of His royalty and glory, in the same way have 
the Scriptures also aforetime spoken of Antichrist as a lion, on account of his 
tyranny and violence. For the deceiver seeks to liken himself in all things to 
the Son of God. Christ is a lion, so Antichrist is also a lion; Christ is a 
king, so Antichrist is also a king. The Saviour was manifested as a lamb; so he 
too, in like manner, will appear as a lamb, though within he is a wolf. The 
Saviour came into the World in the circumcision, and he will come in the same 
manner. The Lord sent apostles among all the nations, and he in like manner will 
send false apostles. The Saviour gathered together the sheep that were scattered 
abroad, and he in like manner will bring together a people that is scattered 
abroad. The Lord gave a seal to those who believed on Him, and he will give one 
like manner. The Saviour appeared in the form of man, and he too will come in 
the form of a man. The Saviour raised up and showed His holy flesh like a 
temple, and he will raise a temple of stone in Jerusalem. And his seductive arts 
we shall exhibit in what follows. But for the present let us turn to the 
question in hand. 
7. Now the blessed Jacob speaks to the following effect in his benedictions, 
testifying prophetically of our Lord and Saviour: "Judah, let thy brethren 
praise thee: thy hand shall be on the neck of thine enemies; thy father's 
children shall bow down before thee. Judah is a lion's whelp: from the shoot, my 
son, thou art gone up: he stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as a lion's 
whelp; who shall rouse him up? A ruler shall not depart from Judah, nor a leader 
from his thighs, until he come for whom it is reserved; and he shall be the 
expectation of the nations. Binding his ass to a vine, and his ass's colt to the 
vine tendril; he shall wash his garment in wine, and his clothes in the blood of 
the grapes. His eyes shall be gladsome as with wine, and his teeth shall be 
whiter than milk." 
8. Knowing, then, as I do, how to explain these things in detail, I deem it 
right at present to quote the words themselves. But since the expressions 
themselves urge us to speak of them. I shall not omit to do so. For these are 
truly divine and glorious things, and things well calculated to benefit the 
soul. The prophet, in using the expression, a lion's whelp, means him who sprang 
from Judah and David according to the flesh, who was not made indeed of the seed 
of David, but was conceived by the (power of the) Holy Ghost, and came forth 
from the holy shoot of earth. For Isaiah says, "There shall come forth a rod out 
of the root of Jesse, and a flower shall grow up out of it." That which is 
called by Isaiah a flower, Jacob calls a shoot. For first he shot forth, and 
then he flourished in the world. And the expression, "he stooped down, he 
couched as a lion, and as a lion's whelp," refers to the three days' sleep 
(death, couching) of Christ; as also Isaiah says, "How is faithful Sion become 
an harlot! it was full of judgment; in which righteousness lodged (couched); but 
now murderers." And David says to the same effect, "I laid me down (couched) and 
slept; I awaked: for the Lord will sustain me;" in which words he points to the 
fact of his sleep and rising again. And Jacob says, "Who shall rouse him up?" 
And that is just what David and Paul both refer to, as when Paul says, "and God 
the Father, who raised Him from the dead." 
9. And in saying, "A ruler shall not depart from Judah, nor a leader from his 
thighs, until he come for whom it is reserved; and he shall be the expectation 
of the nations," he referred the fulfilment (of that prophecy) to Christ. For He 
is our expectation. For we expect Him, (and) by faith we behold Him as He comes 
from heaven with power. 
10. "Binding his ass to a vine:" that means that He unites His people of the 
circumcision with His own calling (vocation). For He was the vine. "And his 
ass's colt to the vine-tendril:" that denotes the people of the Gentiles, as He 
calls the circumcision and the uncircumcision unto one faith. 
11. "He shall wash his garment in wine," that is, according to that voice of 
His Father which came down by the Holy Ghost at the Jordan. "And his clothes in 
the blood of the grape." In the blood of what grape, then, but just His own 
flesh, which hung upon the tree like a cluster of grapes?--from whose side also 
flowed two streams, of blood and water, in which the nations are washed and 
purified, which (nations) He may be supposed to have as a robe about Him. 

12. "His eyes gladsome with wine." And what are the eyes of Christ but the 
blessed prophets, who foresaw in the Spirit, and announced beforehand, the 
sufferings that were to befall Him, and rejoiced in seeing Him in power with 
spiritual eyes, being furnished (for their vocation) by the word Himself and His 
grace? 
13. And in saying, "And his teeth (shall be) whiter than milk," he referred 
to the commandments that proceed from the holy mouth of Christ, and which are 
pure (purify) as milk. 
14. Thus did the Scriptures preach before-time of this lion and lion's whelp. 
And in like manner also we find it written regarding Antichrist. For Moses 
speaks thus: "Dan is a lion's whelp, and he shall leap from Bashan." But that no 
one may err by supposing that this is said of the Saviour, let him attend 
carefully to the matter. "Dan," he says, "is a lion's whelp;" and in naming the 
tribe of Dan, he declared clearly the tribe from which Antichrist is destined to 
spring. For as Christ springs from the tribe of Judah, so Antichrist is to 
spring from the tribe of Dan. And that the case stands thus, we see also from 
the words of Jacob: "Let Dan be 'a serpent, lying upon the ground, biting the 
horse's heel." What, then, is meant by the serpent but Antichrist, that deceiver 
who is mentioned in Genesis, who deceived Eve and supplanted Adam 
(pternisas, bruised Adam's heel)? But since it is necessary to prove this 
assertion by sufficient testimony, we shall not shrink from the task. 
15. That it is in reality out of the tribe of Dan, then, that that tyrant and 
king, that dread judge, that son of the devil, is destined to spring and arise, 
the prophet testifies when he says, "Dan shall judge his people, as (he is) also 
one tribe in Israel." But some one may say that this refers to Samson, who 
sprang from the tribe of Dan, and judged the people twenty years. Well, the 
prophecy had its partial fulfilment in Samson, but its complete fulfilment is 
reserved for Antichrist. For Jeremiah also speaks to this effect: "From Dan we 
are to hear the sound of the swiftness of his horses: the whole land trembled at 
the sound of the neighing, of the driving of his horses." And another prophet 
says: "He shall gather together all his strength, from the east even to the 
west. They whom he calls, and they whom he calls not, shall go with him. He 
shall make the sea white with the sails of his ships, and the plain black with 
the shields of his armaments. And whosoever shall oppose him in war shall fall 
by the sword." That these things, then, are said of no one else but that tyrant, 
and shameless one, and adversary of God, we shall show in what follows. 
16. But Isaiah also speaks thus: "And it shall come to pass, that when the 
Lord hath performed His whole work upon Mount Zion and on Jerusalem, He will 
punish (visit) the stout mind, the king of Assyria, and the greatness (height) 
of the glory of his eyes. For he said, By my strength will I do it, and by the 
wisdom of my understanding I will remove the bounds of the peoples, and will rob 
them of their strength: and I will make the inhabited cities tremble, and will 
gather the whole world in my hand like a nest, and I will lift it up like eggs 
that are left. And there is no one that shall escape or gainsay me, and open the 
mouth and chatter. Shall the axe boast itself without him that heweth therewith? 
or shall the saw magnify itself without him that shaketh (draweth) it? As if one 
should raise a rod or a staff, and the staff should lift itself up: and not 
thus. But the Lord shall send dishonour unto thy honour; and into thy glory a 
burning fire shall burn. And the light of Israel shall be a fire, and shall 
sanctify him in flame, and shall consume the forest like grass." 
17. And again he says in another place: "How bath the exactor ceased, and how 
hath the oppressor ceased! God hath broken the yoke of the rulers of sinners, He 
who smote the people in wrath, and with an incurable stroke: He that strikes the 
people with an incurable stroke, which He did not spare. He ceased (rested) 
confidently: the whole earth shouts with rejoicing. The trees of Lebanon 
rejoiced at thee, and the cedar of Lebanon, (saying), Since thou art laid down, 
no feller is come up against us. Hell from beneath is moved at meeting thee: all 
the mighty ones, the rulers of the earth, are gathered together--the lords from 
their thrones. All the kings of the nations, all they shall answer together, and 
shall say, And thou, too, art taken as we; and thou art reckoned among us. Thy 
pomp is brought down to earth, thy great rejoicing: they will spread decay under 
thee; and the worm shall be thy covering. How art thou fallen from heaven, O 
Lucifer, son of the morning! He is cast down to the ground who sends off to all 
the nations. And thou didst say in thy mind, I will ascend into heaven, I will 
set my throne above the stars of heaven: I will sit down upon the lofty 
mountains towards the north: I will ascend above the clouds: I will be like the 
Most High. Yet now thou shalt be brought down to hell, and to the foundations of 
the earth! They that see thee shall wonder at thee, and shall say, This is the 
man that excited the earth, that did shake kings, that made the whole world a 
wilderness, and destroyed the cities, that released not those in prison. All the 
kings of the earth did lie in honour, every one in his own house; but thou shall 
be cast out on the mountains like a loathsome carcase, with many who fall, 
pierced through with the sword, and going down to hell. As a garment stained 
with blood is not pure, so neither shall thou be comely (or clean); because thou 
hast destroyed my land, and slain my people. Thou shalt not abide, enduring for 
ever, a wicked seed. Prepare thy children for slaughter, for the sins of thy 
father, that they rise not, neither possess my land." 
18. Ezekiel also speaks of him to the same effect, thus: "Thus saith the Lord 
God, Because thine heart is lifted up, and thou hast said, I am God, I sit in 
the seat of God, in the midst of the sea; yet art thou a man, and not God, 
(though) thou hast set thine heart as the heart of God. Art thou wiser than 
Daniel? Have the wise not instructed thee in their wisdom? With thy wisdom or 
with thine understanding hast thou gotten thee power, and gold and silver in thy 
treasures? By thy great wisdom and by thy traffic hast thou increased thy power? 
Thy heart is lifted up in thy power. Therefore thus saith the Lord God: Because 
thou hast set thine heart as the heart of God: behold, therefore I will bring 
strangers upon thee, plagues from the nations: and they shall draw their swords 
against thee, and against the beauty of thy wisdom; and they shall level thy 
beauty to destruction; and they shall bring thee down; and thou shall die by the 
death of the wounded in the midst of the sea. Wilt thou yet say before them that 
slay thee, I am God? But thou art a man, and no God, in the hand of them that 
wound thee. Thou shalt die the deaths of the uncircumcised by the hand of 
strangers: for I have spoken it, saith the Lord." 
19. These words then being thus presented, let us observe somewhat in detail 
what Daniel says in his visions. For in distinguishing the kingdoms that are to 
rise after these things, he showed also the coming of Antichrist in the last 
times, and the consummation of the whole world. In expounding the vision of 
Nebuchadnezzar, then, he speaks thus: "Thou, O king, sawest, and behold a great 
image standing before thy face: the head of which was of fine gold, its arms and 
shoulders of silver, its belly and its thighs of brass, and its legs of iron, 
(and) its feet part of iron and part of clay. Thou sawest, then, till that a 
stone was cut out without hands, and smote the image upon the feet that were of 
iron and clay, and brake them to an end. Then were the clay, the iron, the 
brass, the silver, (and) the gold broken, and became like the chaff from the 
summer threshing-floor; and the strength (fulness) of the wind carried them 
away, and there was no place found for them. And the stone that smote the image 
became a great mountain, and filled the whole earth." 
20. Now if we set Daniel's own visions also side by side with this, we shall 
have one exposition to give of the two together, and shall (be able to) show how 
concordant with each other they are, and how true. For he speaks thus: "I Daniel 
saw, and behold the four winds of the heaven strove upon the great sea. And four 
great beasts came up from the sea, diverse one from another. The first (was) 
like a lioness, and had wings as of an eagle. I beheld till the wings thereof 
were plucked, and it was lifted up from the earth, and made stand upon the feet 
as a man, and a man's heart was given to it. And behold a second beast like to a 
bear, and it was made stand on one part, and it had three ribs in the mouth of 
it. I beheld, and lo a beast like a leopard, and it had upon the back of it four 
wings of a fowl, and the beast had four heads. After this I saw, and behold a 
fourth beast, dreadful and terrible, and strong exceedingly; it had iron teeth 
and daws of brass, which devoured and brake in pieces, and it stamped the 
residue with the feet of it; and it was diverse from all the beasts that were 
before it, and it had ten horns. I considered its horns, and behold there came 
up among them another little horn, and before it there were three of the first 
horns plucked up by the roots; and behold in this horn were eyes like the eyes 
of man, and a mouth speaking great things." 
21. "I beheld till the thrones were set, and the Ancient of days did sit: and 
His garment was white as snow, and the hair of His head like pure wool: His 
throne was a flame of fire, His wheels were a burning fire. A stream of fire 
flowed before Him. Thousand thousands ministered unto Him, and ten thousand 
times ten thousand stood around Him: the judgment was set, and the books were 
opened. I beheld then, because of the voice of the great words which the horn 
spake, till the beast was slain and per ished, and his body given to the burning 
of fire. And the dominion of the other beasts was taken away." 
22. "I saw in the night vision, and, behold, one like the Son of man was 
coming with the clouds of heaven, and came to the Ancient of days, and was 
brought near before Him. And there was given Him dominion, and honour, and the 
kingdom; and all peoples, tribes, and tongues shall serve Him: His dominion is 
an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and His kingdom shall not be 
destroyed." 
23. Now since these things, spoken as they are with a mystical meaning, may 
seem to some hard to understand, we shall keep back nothing fitted to impart an 
intelligent apprehension of them to those who are possessed of a sound mind. He 
said, then, that a "lioness came up from the sea," and by that he meant the 
kingdom of the Babylonians in the world, which also was the head of gold on the 
image. In saying that "it had wings as of an eagle," he meant that 
Nebuchadnezzar the king was lifted up and was exalted against God. Then he says, 
"the wings thereof were plucked," that is to say, his glory was destroyed; for 
he was driven out of his kingdom. And the words, "a man's heart was given to it, 
and it was made stand upon the feet as a man," refer to the fact that he 
repented and recognised himself to be only a man, and gave the glory to God. 
24. Then, after the lioness, he sees a "second beast like a bear," and that 
denoted the Persians. For after the Babylonians, the Persians held the sovereign 
power And in saving that there were "three ribs in the mouth of it," he pointed 
to three nations, viz., the Persians, and the Medes, and the Babylonians; which 
were also represented on the image by the silver after the gold. Then (there 
was) "the third beast, a leopard," which meant the Greeks. For after the 
Persians, Alexander of Macedon obtained the sovereign power on subverting 
Darius, as is also shown by the brass on the image. And in saying that it had 
"four wings of a fowl," he taught us most clearly how the kingdom of Alexander 
was partitioned. For in speaking of "four heads," he made mention of four kings, 
viz., those who arose out of that (kingdom). For Alexander, when dying, 
partitioned out his kingdom into four divisions. 
25. Then he says: "A fourth beast, dreadful and terrible; it had iron teeth 
and claws of brass." And who are these but the Romans? which (kingdom) is meant 
by the iron--the kingdom which is now established; for the legs of that (image) 
were of iron. And after this, what remains, beloved, but the toes of the feet of 
the image, in which part is iron and part clay, mixed together? 
And mystically by the toes of the feet he meant the kings who are to arise 
from among them; as Daniel also says (in the words), "I considered the beast, 
and lo there were ten horns behind it, among which shall rise another (horn), an 
offshoot, and shall pluck up by the roots the three (that were) before it." 
And under this was signified none other than Antichrist, who is also himself 
to raise the kingdom of the Jews. He says that three horns are plucked up by the 
root by him, viz., the three kings of Egypt, and Libya, and Ethiopia, whom he 
cuts off in the array of battle. And he, after gaining terrible power over all, 
being nevertheless a tyrant, shall stir up tribulation and persecution against 
men, exalting himself against them. For Daniel says: "I considered the horn, and 
behold that horn made war with the saints, and prevailed against them, till the 
beast was slain and perished, and its body was given to the burning of fire." 
26. After a little space the stone will come from heaven which smites the 
image and breaks it in pieces, and subverts all the kingdoms, and gives the 
kingdom to the saints of the Most High. This is the stone which becomes a great 
mountain, and fills the whole earth, of which Daniel says: "I saw in the night 
visions, and behold one like the Son of man came with the clouds of heaven, and 
came to the Ancient of days, and was brought near before Him. And there was 
given Him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom; and all peoples, tribes, and 
languages shall serve Him: and His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which 
shall not pass away, and His kingdom shall not be destroyed." He showed all 
power given by the Father to the Son, who is ordained Lord of things in heaven, 
and things on earth, and things under the earth, and Judge of all: of things in 
heaven, because He was born, the Word of God, before all (ages); and of things 
on earth, because He became man in the midst of men, to re-create our Adam 
through Himself; and of things under the earth, because He was also reckoned 
among the dead, preaching the Gospel to the souls of the saints, (and) by death 
overcoming death. 
27. As these things, then, are in the future, and as the ten toes of the 
image are equivalent to (so many) democracies, and the ten horns of the fourth 
beast are distributed over ten kingdoms, let us look at the subject a little 
more closely, and consider these matters as in the clear light of a personal 
survey. 
28. The golden head of the image and the lioness denoted the Babylonians; the 
shoulders and arms of silver, and the bear, represented the Persians and Medes; 
the belly and thighs of brass, and the leopard, meant the Greeks, who held the 
sovereignty from Alexander's time; the legs of iron, and the beast dreadful and 
terrible, expressed the Romans, who hold the sovereignty at present; the toes of 
the feet which were part clay and part iron, and the ten horns, were emblems of 
the kingdoms that are yet to rise; the other little horn that grows up among 
them meant the Antichrist in their midst; the stone that smites the earth and 
brings judgment upon the world was Christ. 
29. These things, beloved, we impart to you with fear, and yet readily, on 
account of the love of Christ, which surpasseth all. For if the blessed prophets 
who preceded us did not choose to proclaim these things, though they knew them, 
openly and boldly, lest they should disquiet the souls of men, but recounted 
them mystically in parables and dark sayings, speaking thus, "Here is the mind 
which hath wisdom," how much greater risk shall we run in venturing to declare 
openly things spoken by them in obscure terms! Let us look, therefore, at the 
things which are to befall this unclean harlot in the last days; and (let us 
consider) what and what manner of tribulation is destined to visit her in the 
wrath of God before the judgment as an earnest of her doom. 
30. Come, then, O blessed Isaiah; arise, tell us clearly what thou didst 
prophesy with respect to the mighty Babylon. For thou didst speak also of 
Jerusalem, and thy word is accomplished. For thou didst speak boldly and openly: 
"Your country is desolate, your cities are burned with fire; your land, 
strangers devour it in your presence, and it is desolate as overthrown by many 
strangers. The daughter of Sion shall be left as a cottage in a vineyard, and as 
a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, as a besieged city." 
What then? Are not these things come to pass? Are not the things announced by 
thee fulfilled? Is not their country, Judea, desolate? Is not the holy place 
burned with fire? Are not their walls cast down? Are not their cities destroyed? 
Their land, do not strangers devour it? Do not the Romans rule the country? And 
indeed these impious people hated thee, and did saw thee asunder, and they 
crucified Christ. Thou art dead in the world, but thou livest in Christ. 
31. Which of you, then, shall I esteem more than thee? Yet Jeremiah, too, is 
stoned. But if I should esteem Jeremiah most, yet Daniel too has his testimony. 
Daniel, I commend thee above all; yet John too gives no false witness. With how 
many mouths and tongues would I praise you; or rather the Word who spake in you! 
Ye died with Christ; and ye will live with Christ. Hear ye, and rejoice; behold 
the things announced by you have been fulfilled in their time. For ye saw these 
things yourselves first, and then ye proclaimed them to all generations. Ye 
ministered the oracles of God to all generations. Ye prophets were called, that 
ye might be able to save all. For then is one a prophet indeed, when, having 
announced beforetime things about to be, he can afterwards show that they have 
actually happened. Ye were the disciples of a good Master. These words I address 
to you as if alive, and with propriety. For ye hold already the crown of life 
and immortality which is laid up for you in heaven. 
32. Speak with me, O blessed Daniel. Give me full assurance, I beseech thee. 
Thou dost prophesy concerning the lioness in Babylon; for thou wast a captive 
there. Thou hast unfolded the future regarding the bear; for thou wast still in 
the world, and didst see the things come to pass. Then thou speakest to me of 
the leopard; and whence canst thou know this, for thou art already gone to thy 
rest? Who instructed thee to announce these things, but He who formed thee in 
(from) thy mother's womb? That is God, thou sayest. Thou hast spoken indeed, and 
that not falsely. The leopard has arisen; the he-goat is come; he hath smitten 
the ram; he hath broken his horns in pieces; he hath stamped upon him with his 
feet. He has been exalted by his fall; (the) four horns have come up from under 
that one. Rejoice, blessed Daniel! thou hast not been in error: all these things 
have come to pass. 
33. After this again thou hast told me of the beast dreadful and terrible. 
"It had iron teeth and claws of brass: it devoured and brake in pieces, and 
stamped the residue with the feet of it." Already the iron rules; already it 
subdues and breaks all in pieces; already it brings all the unwilling into 
subjection; already we see these things ourselves. Now we glorify God, being 
instructed by thee. 
34. But as the task before us was to speak of the harlot, be thou with us, O 
blessed Isaiah. 

Let us mark what thou sayest about Babylon. "Come down, sit upon the ground, 
O virgin daughter of Babylon; sit, O daughter of the Chaldeans; thou shalt no 
longer be called tender and delicate. Take the millstone, grind meal, draw aside 
thy veil, shave the grey hairs, make bare the legs, pass over the rivers. Thy 
shame shall be uncovered, thy reproach shall be seen: I will take justice of 
thee, I will no more give thee over to men. As for thy Redeemer, (He is) the 
Lord of hosts, the Holy One of Israel is his name. Sit thou in compunction, get 
thee into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans: thou shall no longer be called 
the strength of the kingdom. 
35. "I was wroth with my people; I have polluted mine inheritance, I have 
given them into thine hand: and thou didst show them no mercy; but upon the 
ancient (the elders) thou hast very heavily laid thy yoke. And thou saidst, I 
shall be a princess for ever: thou didst not lay these things to thy heart, 
neither didst remember thy latter end. Therefore hear now this, thou that art 
delicate; that sittest, that art confident, that sayest in thine heart, I am, 
and there is none else; I shall not sit as a widow, neither shall I know the 
loss of children. But now these two things shall come upon thee in one day, 
widowhood and the loss of children: they shall come upon thee suddenly in thy 
sorcery, in the strength of thine enchantments mightily, in the hope of thy 
fornication. For thou hast said, I am, and there is none else. And thy 
fornication shall be thy shame, because thou hast said in thy heart, I am. And 
destruction shall come upon thee, and thou shalt not know it. (And there shall 
be) a pit, and thou shalt full into it; and misery shall fall upon thee, and 
thou shalt not be able to be made clean; and destruction shall come upon thee, 
and thou shalt not know it. Stand now with thy enchantments, and with the 
multitude of thy sorceries, which thou hast learned from thy youth; if so be 
thou shalt be able to be profited. Thou art wearied in thy counsels. Let the 
astrologers of the heavens stand and save thee; let the star-gazers announce to 
thee what shall come upon thee. Behold, they shall all be as sticks for the 
fire; so shall they be burned, and they shall not deliver their soul from the 
flame. Because thou hast coals of fire, sit upon them; so shall it be for thy 
help. Thou art wearied with change from thy youth. Man has gone astray (each 
one) by himself; and there shall be no salvation for thee." These things does 
Isaiah prophesy for thee. Let us see now whether John has spoken to the same 
effect. 
36. For he sees, when in the isle Patmos, a revelation of awful mysteries, 
which he recounts freely, and makes known to others. Tell me, blessed John, 
apostle and disciple of the Lord, what didst thou see and hear concerning 
Babylon? Arise, and speak; for it sent thee also into banishment. "And there 
came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials, and talked with me, 
saying unto me, Come hither; I will show unto thee the judgment of the great 
whore that sitteth upon many waters; with whom the kings of the earth have 
committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk 
with the wine of her fornication. And he carried me away in the spirit into the 
wilderness: and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet-coloured beast, full of names 
of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns. And the woman was arrayed in 
purple and scarlet colour, and decked with gold, and precious stone, and pearls, 
having a golden cup in her hand, full of abominations and filthiness of the 
fornication of the earth. Upon her forehead was a name written, Mystery, Babylon 
the Great, the Mother of Harlots and Abominations of the Earth. 
37. "And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of the saints, and with the 
blood of the martyrs of Jesus: and when I saw her, I wondered with great 
admiration. And the angel said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel? I will tell 
thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carrieth her, which hath 
the seven heads and the ten horns. The beast that thou sawest was, and is not; 
and shall ascend out of the bottomless pit, and go into perdition: and they that 
dwell on the earth shall wonder (whose name was not written in the book of life 
from the foundation of the world) when they behold the beast that was, and is 
not, and yet shall be. 
38. "And here is the mind that has wisdom. The seven heads are seven 
mountains, on which the woman sitteth. And there are seven kings: five are 
fallen, and one is, and the other is not ye come; and when he cometh, he must 
continue a short space. And the beast that was and is not, (even he is the 
eighth,) and is of the seven, and goeth into perdition. And the ten horns which 
thou sawest are ten kings, which have received no kingdom as yet; but receive 
power as kings one hour with the beast. These have one mind, and shall give 
their power and strength unto the beast. These shall make war with the Lamb, and 
the Lamb shall overcome them: for he is Lord of lords, and King of kings; and 
they that are with Him are called, and chosen, and faithful. 
39. "And he saith to me, The waters which thou sawest, where the whore 
sitteth, are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues. And the ten 
horns which thou sawest, and the beast, these shall hate the whore, and shall 
make her desolate and naked, and shall eat her flesh, and burn her with fire. 
For God hath put in their hearts to fulfil His will, and to agree, and give 
their kingdom unto the beast, until the words of God shall be fulfilled. And the 
woman which thou sawest is that great city, which reigneth over the kings of the 
earth. 
40. "After these things I saw another angel come down from heaven, having 
great power; and the earth was lightened with his glory. And he cried mightily 
with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and is 
become the habitation of devils, and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage 
of every unclean and hateful bird. For all nations have drunk of the wine of the 
wrath of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication 
with her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the abundance of 
her delicacies. And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her, 
my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her 
plagues: for her sins did cleave even unto heaven, and God hath remembered her l 
iniquities. 
41. "Reward her even as she rewarded (you), and double unto her double, 
according to her works: in the cup which she hath filled, fill to her double. 
How much she hath glorified herself, and lived deliciously, so much torment and 
sorrow give her: for she saith in her heart, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and 
shall see no sorrow. Therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death, and 
mourning, and famine; and she shall be utterly burned with fire: for strong is 
the Lord God who judgeth her. And the kings of the earth, who have committed 
fornication, and lived deliciously with her, shall bewail her, and lament for 
her, when they shall see the smoke of her burning, standing afar off for the 
fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas! that great city Babylon, that mighty 
city! for in one hour is thy judgment come. And the merchants of the earth shall 
weep and mourn over her; for no man shall buy their merchandise any more. The 
merchandise of gold, and silver, and precious stones, and of pearls, and fine 
linen, and purple, and silk, and scarlet, and all thyine wood, and all manner 
vessels of ivory, and all manner vessels of most precious wood, and of brass, 
and iron, and marble, and cinnamon, and spices, and odours, and ointments, and 
frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine flour, and wheat, and beasts, and 
sheep, and goats, and horses, and chariots, and slaves (bodies), and souls of 
men. And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from thee, and all 
things which were dainty and goodly have perished from thee, and thou shalt find 
them no more at all. The merchants of these things, which were made rich by her, 
shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing, and 
saying, Alas, alas! that great city, that was clothed in fine linen, and purple, 
and scarlet, and decked with gold, and precious stones, and pearls! for in one 
hour so great riches is come to nought. And every shipmaster, and all the 
company in ships, and sailors, and as many as trade by sea, stood afar off, and 
cried, when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is like unto 
this great city? And they cast dust on their heads, and cried, weeping and 
wailing, saying, Alas, alas! that great city, wherein were made rich all that 
had ships in the sea by reason of her fatness! for in one hour is she made 
desolate. 
42. "Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye angels, and apostles, and 
prophets; for God hath avenged you on her. And a mighty angel took up a stone 
like a great millstone, and cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence 
shall that great city Babylon be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all. 
And the voice of harpers and musicians, and of pipers and trumpeters, shall be 
heard no more at all in thee; and no craftsman, of whatsoever craft he be, shall 
be found any more in thee; and the sound of a millstone shall be heard no more 
at all in thee; and the light of a candle shall shine no more at all in thee; 
and the voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be heard no more at all 
in thee: for thy merchants were the great men of the earth; for by thy sorceries 
were all nations deceived. And in her was found the blood of prophets and of 
saints, and of all that were slain upon the earth." 
43. With respect, then, to the particular judgment in the torments that are 
to come upon it in the last times by the hand of the tyrants who shall arise 
then, the clearest statement has been given in these passages. But it becomes us 
further diligently to examine and set forth the period at which these things 
shall come to pass, and how the little horn shall spring up in their midst. For 
when the legs of iron have issued in the feet and toes, according to the 
similitude of the image and that of the terrible beast, as has been shown in the 
above, (then shall be the time) when the iron and the clay shall be mingled 
together. Now Daniel will set forth this subject to us. For he says, "And one 
week will make a covenant with many, and it shall be that in the midst (half) of 
the week my sacrifice and oblation shall cease." By one week, therefore, he 
meant the last week which is to be at the end of the whole world of which week 
the two prophets Enoch and Elias will take up the half. For they will preach 
1,260 days clothed in sackcloth, proclaiming repentance to the people and to all 
the nations. 
44. For as two advents of our Lord and Saviour are indicated in the 
Scriptures, the one being His first advent in the flesh, which took place 
without honour by reason of His being set at nought, as Isaiah spake of Him 
aforetime, saying, "We saw Him, and He had no form nor comeliness, but His form 
was despised (and) rejected (lit. = deficient) above all men; a man smitten and 
familiar with bearing infirmity, (for His face was turned away); He was 
despised, and esteemed not." But His second advent is announced as glorious, 
when He shall come from heaven with the host of angels, and the glory of His 
Father, as the prophet saith, "Ye shall see the King in glory;" and, "I saw one 
like the Son of man coming with the clouds of heaven; and he came to the Ancient 
of days, and he was brought to Him. And there were given Him dominion, and 
honour, and glory, and the kingdom; all tribes and languages shall serve Him: 
His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away." Thus also 
two forerunners were indicated. The first was John the son of Zacharias, who 
appeared in all things a forerunner and herald of our Saviour, preaching of the 
heavenly light that had appeared in the world. He first fulfilled the course of 
forerunner, and that from his mother's womb, being conceived by Elisabeth, in 
order that to those, too, who are children from their mother's womb he might 
declare the new birth that was to take place for their sakes by the Holy Ghost 
and the Virgin. 
45. He, on hearing the salutation addressed to Elisabeth, leaped with joy in 
his mother's womb, recognising God the Word conceived in the womb of the Virgin. 
Thereafter he came forward preaching in the wilderness, proclaiming the baptism 
of repentance to the people, (and thus) announcing prophetically salvation to 
the nations living in the wilderness of the world. After this, at the Jordan, 
seeing the Saviour with his own eye, he points Him out, and says, "Behold the 
Lamb of God, that taketh away the sin of the world!" He also first preached to 
those in Hades, becoming a forerunner there when he was put to death by Herod, 
that there too he might intimate that the Saviour would descend to ransom the 
souls of the saints from the hand of death. 
46. But since the Saviour was the beginning of the resurrection of all men, 
it was meet that the Lord alone should rise from the dead, by whom too the 
judgment is to enter for the whole world, that they who have wrestled worthily 
may be also crowned worthily by Him, by the illustrious Arbiter, to wit, who 
Himself first accomplished the course, and was received into the heavens, and 
was set down on the right hand of God the Father, and is to be manifested again 
at the end of the world as Judge. It is a matter of course that His forerunners 
must appear first, as He says by Malachi and the angel, "I will send to you 
Elias the Tishbite before the day of the Lord, the great and notable day, comes; 
and he shall turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient 
to the wisdom of the just, lest i come and smite the earth utterly." These, 
then, shall come and proclaim the manifestation of Christ that is to be from 
heaven; and they shall also perform signs and wonders, in order that men may be 
put to shame and turned to repentance for their surpassing wickedness and 
impiety. 
47. For John says, "And I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they 
shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed in 
sackcloth." That is the half of the week whereof Daniel spake. "These are the 
two olive trees and the two candlesticks standing before the Lord of the earth. 
And if any man will hurt them, fire will proceed out of their mouth, and devour 
their enemies; and if any man will hurt them, he must in this manner be killed. 
These have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of their prophecy; 
and have power over waters, to turn them to blood, and to smite the earth with 
all plagues as often as they will. And when they shall have finished their 
course and their testimony," what saith the prophet? "the beast that ascendeth 
out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them, and shall overcome them, 
and kill them," because they will not give glory to Antichrist. For this is 
meant by the little horn that grows up. He, being now elated in heart, begins to 
exalt himself, and to glorify himself as God, persecuting the saints and 
blaspheming Christ, even as Daniel says, "I considered the horn, and, behold, in 
the horn were eyes like the eyes of man, and a mouth speaking great things; and 
he opened his mouth to blaspheme God. 
And that born made war against the saints, and prevailed against them until 
the beast was slain, and perished, and his body was given to be burned." 
48. But as it is incumbent on us to discuss this matter of the beast more 
exactly, and in particular the question how the Holy Spirit has also mystically 
indicated his name by means of a number, we shall proceed to state more clearly 
what bears upon him. John then speaks thus: "And I beheld another beast coming 
up out of the earth; and he had two horns, like a lamb, and he spake as a 
dragon. And he exercised all the power of the first beast before him; and he 
made the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the first beast, whose 
deadly wound was healed. And he did great wonders, so that he maketh fire come 
down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men, and deceiveth them that dwell 
on the earth by means of those miracles which he had power to do in the sight of 
the beast, saying to them that dwell on the earth, that they should make an 
image to the beast which had the wound by a sword and did live. And he had power 
to give life unto the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should 
both speak, and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast 
should be killed. And he caused all, both small and great, rich and poor, free 
and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand or in their forehead; and that 
no man might buy or sell, save he that had the mark, the name of the beast, or 
the number of his name. Here is wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count 
the number of the beast; for if is the number of a man, and his number is six 
hundred threescore and six." 
49. By the beast, then, coming up out of the earth, he means the kingdom of 
Antichrist; and by the two horns he means him and the false prophet after him. 
And in speaking of "the horns being like a lamb," he means that he will make 
himself like the Son of God, and set himself forward as king. And the terms, "he 
spake like a dragon," mean that he is a deceiver, and not truthful. And the 
words, "he exercised all the power of the first beast before him, and caused the 
earth and them which dwell therein to worship the first beast, whose deadly 
wound was healed," signify that, after the manner of the law of Augustus, by 
whom the empire of Rome was established, he too will rule and govern, 
sanctioning everything by it, and taking greater glory to himself. 
For this is the fourth beast, whose head was wounded and healed again, in its 
being broken up or even dishonoured, and partitioned into four crowns; and he 
then (Antichrist) shall with knavish skill heal it, as it were, and restore it. 
For this is what is meant by the prophet when he says, "He will give life unto 
the image, and the image of the beast will speak." For he will act with vigour 
again, and prove strong by reason of the laws established by him; and he will 
cause all those who will not worship the image of the beast to be put to death. 
Here the faith and the patience of the saints will appear, for he says: "And he 
will cause all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a 
mark in their right hand or in their forehead; that no man might buy or sell, 
save he that had the mark, the name of the beast, or the number of his name." 
For, being full of guile, and exalting himself against the servants of God, with 
the wish to afflict them and persecute them out of the world, because they give 
not glory to him, he will order incense-pans to be set up by all everywhere, 
that no man among the saints may be able to buy or sell without first 
sacrificing; for this is what is meant by the mark received upon the right hand. 
And the word--"in their forehead"--indicates that all are crowned, and put on a 
crown of fire, and not of life, but of death. For in ibis wise, too, did 
Antiochus Epiphanes the king of Syria, the descendant of Alexander of Macedon, 
devise measures against the Jews. He, too, in the exaltation of his heart, 
issued a decree in those times, that "all should set up shrines before their 
doors, and sacrifice, and that they should march in procession to the honour of 
Dionysus, waving chaplets of ivy;" and that those who refused obedience should 
be put to death by strangulation and torture. But he also met his due recompense 
at the hand of the Lord, the righteous Judge and all-searching God; for he died 
eaten up of worms. And if one desires to inquire into that more accurately, he 
will find it recorded in the books of the Maccabees. 
50. But now we shall speak of what is before us. For such measures will he, 
too, devise, seeking to afflict the saints in every way. For the prophet and 
apostle says: "Here is wisdom, Let him that hath understanding count the number 
of the beast; for it is the number of a man, and his number is six hundred 
threescore and six." With respect to his name, it is not in our power to explain 
it exactly, as the blessed John understood it and was instructed about it, but 
only to give a conjectural account of it; for when he appears, the blessed one 
will show us what we seek to know. Yet as far as our doubtful apprehension of 
the matter goes, we may speak. Many names indeed we find, the letters of which 
are the equivalent of this number: such as, for instance, the word Titan, an 
ancient and notable name; or Evanthas, for it too makes up the same number; and 
many others which might be found. But, as we have already said, the wound of the 
first beast was healed, and he (the second beast) was to make the image speak, 
that is to say, he should be powerful; and it is manifest to all that those who 
at present still hold the power are Latins. If, then, we take the name as the 
name of a single man, it becomes Latins. Wherefore we ought neither to give it 
out as if this were certainly his name, nor again ignore the fact that he may 
not be otherwise designated. But having the mystery of God in our heart, we 
ought in fear to keep faithfully what has been told us by the blessed prophets, 
in order that when those things come to pass, we may be prepared for them, and 
not deceived. For when the times advance, he too, of whom these thing are said, 
will be manifested. 
51. But not to confine ourselves to these words and arguments alone, for the 
purpose of convincing those who love to study the oracles of God, we shall 
demonstrate the matter by many other proofs. For Daniel says, "And these shall 
escape out of his hand, even Edom, and Moab, and the chief of the children of 
Ammon." Ammon and Moab are the children born to Lot by his daughters, and their 
race survives even now. And Isaiah says: "And they shall fly in the boats of 
strangers, plundering the sea together, and (they shall spoil) them of the east: 
and they shall lay hands upon Moab first; and the children of Ammon shall first 
obey them." 
52. In those times, then, he shall arise and meet them. And when he has 
overmastered three horns out of the ten in the array of war, and has rooted 
these out, viz., Egypt, and Libya, and Ethiopia, and has got their spoils and 
trappings, and has brought the remaining horns which suffer into subjection, he 
will begin to be lifted up in heart, and to exalt himself against God as master 
of the whole world. And his first expedition will be against Tyre and Berytus, 
and the circumjacent territory. For by storming these cities first he will 
strike terror into the others, as Isaiah says, "Be thou ashamed, O Sidon; the 
sea hath spoken, even the strength of the sea hath spoken, saying, I travailed 
not, nor brought forth children; neither did I nurse up young men, nor bring up 
virgins. But when the report comes to Egypt, pain shall seize them for Tyre." 
53. These things, then, shall be in the future, beloved; and when the three 
horns are cut off, he will begin to show himself as God, as Ezekiel has said 
aforetime: "Because thy heart has been lifted up, and thou hast said, I am God." 
And to the like effect Isaiah says: "For thou hast said in thine heart, I will 
ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of heaven: I will be 
like the Most High. Yet now thou shall be brought down to hell (Hades), to the 
foundations of the earth." In like manner also Ezekiel: "Wilt thou yet say to 
those who slay thee, I am God? But thou (shall be) a man, and no God." 
54. As his tribe, then, and his manifestation, and his destruction, have been 
set forth in these words, and as his name has also been indicated mystically, 
let us look also at his action. For he will call together all the people to 
himself, out of every country of the dispersion, making them his own, as though 
they were his own children, and promising to restore their country, and 
establish again their kingdom and nation, in order that he may be worshipped by 
them as God, as the prophet says: "He will collect his whole kingdom, from the 
rising of the sun even to its setting: they whom he summons and they whom he 
does not summon shall march with him." And Jeremiah speaks of him thus in a 
parable: "The partridge cried, (and) gathered what he did not hatch, making 
himself riches without judgment: in the midst of his days they shall leave him, 
and at his end he shall be a fool." 
55. It will not be detrimental, therefore, to the course of our present 
argument, if we explain the art of that creature, and show that the prophet has 
not spoken without a purpose in using the parable (or similitude) of the 
creature. For as the partridge is a vainglorious creature, when it sees near at 
hand the nest of another partridge with young in it, and with the parent-bird 
away on the wing in quest of food, it imitates the cry of the other bird, and 
calls the young to itself; and they, taking it to be their own parent, run to 
it. And it delights itself proudly in the alien pullets as in its own. But when 
the real parent-bird returns, and calls them with its own familiar cry, the 
young recognise it, and forsake the deceiver, and betake themselves to the real 
parent. This thing, then, the prophet has adopted as a simile, applying it in a 
similar manner to Antichrist. For he will allure mankind to himself, wishing to 
gain possession of those who are not his own, and promising deliverance to all, 
while he is unable to save himself. 
56. He then, having gathered to himself the unbelieving everywhere throughout 
the world, comes at their call to persecute the saints, their enemies and 
antagonists, as the apostle and evangelist says: "There was in a city a judge, 
which feared not God, neither regarded man: and there was a widow in that city, 
who came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. And he would not for a 
while: but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard 
man; yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her." 
57. By the unrighteous judge, who fears not God, neither regards man, he 
means without doubt Antichrist, as he is a son of the devil and a vessel of 
Satan. For when he has the power, he will begin to exalt himself against God, 
neither in truth fearing God, nor regarding the Son of God, who is the Judge of 
all. And in saying that there was a widow in the city, he refers to Jerusalem 
itself, which is a widow indeed, forsaken of her perfect, heavenly spouse, God. 
She calls Him her adversary, and not her Saviour; for she does not understand 
that which was said by the prophet Jeremiah: "Because they obeyed not the truth, 
a spirit of error shall speak then to this people and to Jerusalem." And Isaiah 
also to the like effect: "Forasmuch as the people refuseth to drink the water of 
Siloam that goeth softly, but chooseth to have Rasin and Romeliah's son as king 
over you: therefore, lo, the Lord bringeth up upon you the water of the river, 
strong and full, even the king of Assyria." By the king he means metaphorically 
Antichrist, as also another prophet saith: "And this man shall be the peace from 
me, when the Assyrian shall come up into your land, and when he shall tread in 
your mountains." 
58. And in like manner Moses, knowing beforehand that the people would reject 
and disown the true Saviour of the world, and take part with error, and choose 
an earthly king, and set the heavenly King at nought, says: "Is not this laid up 
in store with me, and sealed up among my treasures? In the day of vengeance I 
will recompense (them), and in the time when their foot shall slide." They did 
slide, therefore, in all things, as they were found to be in harmony with the 
truth in nothing: neither as concerns the law, because they became 
transgressors; nor as concerns the prophets, because they cut off even the 
prophets themselves; nor as concerns the voice of the Gospels, because they 
crucified the Saviour Himself; nor in believing the apostles, because they 
persecuted them. At all times they showed themselves enemies and betrayers of 
the truth, and were found to be haters of God, and not lovers of Him; and such 
they shall be then when they find opportunity: for, rousing themselves against 
the servants of God, they will seek to obtain vengeance by the hand of a mortal 
man. And he, being puffed up with pride by their subserviency, will begin to 
despatch missives against the saints, commanding to cut them all off everywhere, 
on the ground of their refusal to reverence and worship him as God, according to 
the word of Esaias: "Woe to the wings of the vessels of the land, beyond the 
rivers of Ethiopia: (woe to him) who sendeth sureties by the sea, and letters of 
papyrus (upon the water; for nimble messengers will go) to a nation anxious and 
expectant, and a people strange and bitter against them; a nation hopeless and 
trodden down." 
59. But we who hope for the Son of God are persecuted and trodden down by 
those unbelievers. For the wings of the vessels are the churches; and the sea is 
the world, in which the Church is set, like a ship tossed in the deep, but not 
destroyed; for she has with her the skilled Pilot, Christ. And she bears in her 
midst also the trophy (which is erected) over death; for she carries with her 
the cross of the Lord. For her prow is the east, and her stern is the west, and 
her hold is the south, and her tillers are the two Testaments; and the ropes 
that stretch around her are the love of Christ, which binds the Church; and the 
net which she bears with her is the layer of the regeneration which renews the 
believing, whence too are these glories. As the wind the Spirit from heaven is 
present, by whom those who believe are sealed: she has also anchors of iron 
accompanying her, viz., the holy commandments of Christ Himself, which are 
strong as iron. She has also mariners on the right and on the left, assessors 
like the holy angels, by whom the Church is always governed and defended. The 
ladder in her leading up to the sailyard is an emblem of the passion of Christ, 
which brings the faithful to the ascent of heaven. And the top-sails aloft upon 
the yard are the company of prophets, martyrs, and apostles, who have entered 
into their rest in the kingdom of Christ. 
60. Now, concerning the tribulation of the persecution which is to fall upon 
the Church from the adversary, John also speaks thus: "And I saw a great and 
wondrous sign in heaven; a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her 
feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars. And she, being with child, 
cries, travailing in birth, and pained to be delivered. And the dragon stood 
before the woman which was ready to be delivered, for to devour her child as 
soon as it was born. And she brought forth a man-child, who is to rule all the 
nations: and the child was caught up unto God and to His throne. And the woman 
fled into the wilderness, where she hath the place prepared of God, that they 
should feed her there a thousand two hundred and threescore days. And then when 
the dragon saw it, he persecuted the woman which brought forth the man-child. 
And to the woman were given two wings of the great eagle, that she might fly 
into the wilderness, where she is nourished for a time, and times, and half a 
time, from the face of the serpent. And the serpent cast (out of his mouth water 
as a flood after the woman, that he might cause her to be carried away of the 
flood. And the earth helped the woman, and opened her mouth, and swallowed up 
the flood which the dragon cast) out of his mouth. And the dragon was wroth with 
the woman, and went to make war with the saints of her seed, which keep the 
commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus." 
61. By the woman then clothed with the sun," he meant most manifestly the 
Church, endued wth the Father's word, whose brightness is above the sun. And by 
the "moon under her feet" he referred to her being adorned, like the moon, with 
heavenly glory. And the words, "upon her head a crown of twelve stars," refer to 
the twelve apostles by whom the Church was founded. And those, "she, being with 
child, cries, travailing in birth, and pained to be delivered," mean that the 
Church will not cease to bear from her heart the Word that is persecuted by the 
unbelieving in the world. "And she brought forth," he says, "a man-child, who is 
to rule all the nations;" by which is meant that the Church, always bringing 
forth Christ, the perfect man-child of God, who is declared to be God and man, 
becomes the instructor of all the nations. And the words, "her child was caught 
up unto God and to His throne," signify that he who is always born of her is a 
heavenly king, and not an earthly; even as David also declared of old when he 
said, "The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit Thou at my right hand, until I make Thine 
enemies Thy footstool." "And the dragon," he says, "saw and persecuted the woman 
which brought forth the man-child. And to the woman were given two wings of the 
great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness, where she is nourished for 
a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent." That refers 
to the one thousand two hundred and threescore days (the half of the week) 
during which the tyrant is to reign and persecute the Church, which flees from 
city to city, and seeks conceal-meat in the wilderness among the mountains, 
possessed of no other defence than the two wings of the great eagle, that is to 
say, the faith of Jesus Christ, who, in stretching forth His holy hands on the 
holy tree, unfolded two wings, the right and the left, and called to Him all who 
believed upon Him, and covered them as a hen her chickens. For by the mouth of 
Malachi also He speaks thus: "And unto you that fear my name shall the Sun of 
righteousness arise with healing in His wings." 
62. The Lord also says, "When ye shall see the abomination of desolation 
stand in the holy place (whoso readeth, let him understand), then let them which 
be in Judea flee into the mountains, and let him which is on the housetop not 
come down to take his clothes; neither let him which is in the field return back 
to take anything out of his house. And woe unto them that are with child, and to 
them that give suck, in those days! for then shall be great tribulation, such as 
was not since the beginning of the world. And except those days should be 
shortened, there should no flesh be saved." And Daniel says, "And they shall 
place the abomination of desolation a thousand two hundred and ninety days. 
Blessed is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand two hundred and 
ninety-five days." 
63. And the blessed Apostle Paul, writing to the Thessalonians, says: "Now we 
beseech you, brethren, concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and our 
gathering together at it, that ye be not soon shaken in mind, or be troubled, 
neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letters as from us, as that the day of 
the Lord is at hand. Let no man deceive you by any means; for (that day shall 
not come) except there come the falling away first, and that man of sin be 
revealed, the son of perdition, who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that 
is called God, or that is worshipped: so that he sitteth in the temple of God, 
showing himself that he is God. Remember ye not, that when I was yet with you, I 
told you these things? And now ye know what withholdeth, that he might be 
revealed in his time. For the mystery of iniquity doth already work; only he who 
now letteth (will let), until he be taken out of the way. And then shall that 
wicked be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus shall consume with the Spirit of His 
mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of His coming: (even him) whose 
coming is after the working of Satan, with all power, and signs, and lying 
wonders, and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish; 
because they received not the love of the truth. And for this cause God shall 
send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie: that they all might 
be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness." And 
Esaias says, "Let the wicked be cut off, that he behold not the glory of the 
Lord." 
64. These things, then, being to come to pass, beloved, and the one week 
being divided into two parts, and the abomination of desolation being manifested 
then, and the two prophets and forerunners of the Lord having finished their 
course, and the whole world finally approaching the consummation, what remains 
but the coming of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ from heaven, for whom we 
have looked in hope? who shall bring the conflagration and just judgment upon 
all who have refused to believe on Him. 
For the Lord says, "And when these things begin to come to pass, then look 
up, and lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh." "And there shall 
not a hair of your head perish." "For as the lightning cometh out of the east, 
and shineth even unto the west, so shall also the coming of the Son of man be. 
For wheresoever the carcase is, there will the eagles be gathered together." Now 
the fall took place in paradise; for Adam fell there. And He says again, "Then 
shall the Son of man send His angels, and they shall gather together His elect 
from the four winds of heaven." And David also, in announcing prophetically the 
judgment and coming of the Lord, says, "His going forth is from the end of the 
heaven, and His circuit unto the end of the heaven: and there is no one hid from 
the heat thereof." By the heat he means the conflagration. And Esaias speaks 
thus: "Come, my people, enter thou into thy chamber, (and) shut thy door: hide 
thyself as it were for a little moment, until the indignation of the Lord be 
overpast." And Paul in like manner: "For the wrath of God is revealed from 
heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who hold the truth of 
God in unrighteousness." 
65. Moreover, concerning the resurrection and the kingdom of the saints, 
Daniel says, "And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall arise, 
some to everlasting life, (and some to shame and everlasting contempt)." Esaias 
says, "The dead men shall arise, and they that are in their tombs shall awake; 
for the dew from thee is healing to them." The Lord says, "Many in that day 
shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they that hear shall live." And the 
prophet says, "Awake, thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ 
shall give thee light." And John says, "Blessed and holy is he that hath part in 
the first resurrection: on such the second death hath no power." For the second 
death is the lake of fire that burneth. And again the Lord says, "Then shall the 
righteous shine forth as the sun shineth in his glory." And to the saints He 
will say, "Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you 
from the foundation of the world." But what saith He to the wicked? "Depart from 
me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels, 
which my Father hath prepared." And John says, "Without are dogs, and sorcerers, 
and whoremongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever maketh and loveth 
a lie; for your part is in the hell of fire." And in like manner also Esaias: 
"And they shall go forth and look upon the carcases of the men that have 
transgressed against me. And their worm shall not die, neither shall their fire 
be quenched; and they shall be for a spectacle to all flesh." 
66. Concerning the resurrection of the righteous, Paul also speaks thus in 
writing to the Thessalonians: "We would not have you to be ignorant concerning 
them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not even as others which have no hope. For 
if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in 
Jesus will God bring with Him. For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, 
that we which are alive (and) remain unto the coming of the Lord, shall not 
prevent them which are asleep. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven 
with a shout, with the voice and trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise 
first. Then we which are alive (and) remain shall be caught up together with 
them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air; and so shall we ever be with the 
Lord." 
67. These things, then, I have set shortly before thee, O Theophilus, drawing 
them from Scripture itself, in order that, maintaining in faith what is written, 
and anticipating the things that are to be, thou mayest keep thyself void of 
offence both toward God and toward men, "looking for that blessed hope and 
appearing of our God and Saviour," when, having raised the saints among us, He 
will rejoice with them, glorifying the Father. To Him be the glory unto the 
endless ages of the ages. Amen. 

