
The Histories of Tacitus











Book 1 - (January - March, A.D. 69)
[1.1] I BEGIN my work with the time when
Servius Galba was consul for the second time with Titus Vinius for his
colleague. Of the former period, the 820 years dating from the founding
of the city, many authors have treated; and while they had to record the
transactions of the Roman people, they wrote with equal eloquence and freedom.
After the conflict at Actium, and when it became essential to peace, that
all power should be centered in one man, these great intellects passed
away. Then too the truthfulness of history was impaired in many ways; at
first, through men's ignorance of public affairs, which were now wholly
strange to them, then, through their passion for flattery, or, on the other
hand, their hatred of their masters. And so between the enmity of the one
and the servility of the other, neither had any regard for posterity. But
while we instinctively shrink from a writer's adulation, we lend a ready
ear to detraction and spite, because flattery involves the shameful imputation
of servility, whereas malignity wears the false appearance of honesty.
I myself knew nothing of Galba, of Otho, or of Vitellius, either from benefits
or from injuries. I would not deny that my elevation was begun by Vespasian,
augmented by Titus, and still further advanced by Domitian; but those who
profess inviolable truthfulness must speak of all without partiality and
without hatred. I have reserved as an employment for my old age, should
my life be long enough, a subject at once more fruitful and less anxious
in the reign of the Divine Nerva and the empire of Trajan, enjoying the
rare happiness of times, when we may think what we please, and express
what we think. 
[1.2] I am entering on the history of
a period rich in disasters, frightful in its wars, torn by civil strife,
and even in peace full of horrors. Four emperors perished by the sword.
There were three civil wars; there were more with foreign enemies; there
were often wars that had both characters at once. There was success in
the East, and disaster in the West. There were disturbances in Illyricum;
Gaul wavered in its allegiance; Britain was thoroughly subdued and immediately
abandoned; the tribes of the Suevi and the Sarmatae rose in concert against
us; the Dacians had the glory of inflicting as well as suffering defeat;
the armies of Parthia were all but set in motion by the cheat of a counterfeit
Nero. Now too Italy was prostrated by disasters either entirely novel,
or that recurred only after a long succession of ages; cities in Campania's
richest plains were swallowed up and overwhelmed; Rome was wasted by conflagrations,
its oldest temples consumed, and the Capitol itself fired by the hands
of citizens. Sacred rites were profaned; there was profligacy in the highest
ranks; the sea was crowded with exiles, and its rocks polluted with bloody
deeds. In the capital there were yet worse horrors. Nobility, wealth, the
refusal or the acceptance of office, were grounds for accusation, and virtue
ensured destruction. The rewards of the informers were no less odious than
their crimes; for while some seized on consulships and priestly offices,
as their share of the spoil, others on procuratorships, and posts of more
confidential authority, they robbed and ruined in every direction amid
universal hatred and terror. Slaves were bribed to turn against their masters,
and freedmen to betray their patrons; and those who had not an enemy were
destroyed by friends. 
[1.3] Yet the age was not so barren in
noble qualities, as not also to exhibit examples of virtue. Mothers accompanied
the flight of their sons; wives followed their husbands into exile; there
were brave kinsmen and faithful sons in law; there were slaves whose fidelity
defied even torture; there were illustrious men driven to the last necessity,
and enduring it with fortitude; there were closing scenes that equalled
the famous deaths of antiquity. Besides the manifold vicissitudes of human
affairs, there were prodigies in heaven and earth, the warning voices of
the thunder, and other intimations of the future, auspicious or gloomy,
doubtful or not to be mistaken. Never surely did more terrible calamities
of the Roman People, or evidence more conclusive, prove that the Gods take
no thought for our happiness, but only for our punishment. 
[1.4] I think it proper, however, before
I commence my purposed work, to pass under review the condition of the
capital, the temper of the armies, the attitude of the provinces, and the
elements of weakness and strength which existed throughout the whole empire,
that so we may become acquainted, not only with the vicissitudes and the
issues of events, which are often matters of chance, but also with their
relations and their causes. Welcome as the death of Nero had been in the
first burst of joy, yet it had not only roused various emotions in Rome,
among the Senators, the people, or the soldiery of the capital, it had
also excited all the legions and their generals; for now had been divulged
that secret of the empire, that emperors could be made elsewhere than at
Rome. The Senators enjoyed the first exercise of freedom with the less
restraint, because the Emperor was new to power, and absent from the capital.
The leading men of the Equestrian order sympathised most closely with the
joy of the Senators. The respectable portion of the people, which was connected
with the great families, as well as the dependants and freedmen of condemned
and banished persons, were high in hope. The degraded populace, frequenters
of the arena and the theatre, the most worthless of the slaves, and those
who having wasted their property were supported by the infamous excesses
of Nero, caught eagerly in their dejection at every rumour. 
[1.5] The soldiery of the capital, who
were imbued with the spirit of an old allegiance to the Caesars, and who
had been led to desert Nero by intrigues and influences from without rather
than by their own feelings, were inclined for change, when they found that
the donative promised in Galba's name was withheld, and reflected that
for great services and great rewards there was not the same room in peace
as in war, and that the favour of an emperor created by the legions must
be already preoccupied. They were further excited by the treason of Nymphidius
Sabinus, their prefect, who himself aimed at the throne. Nymphidius indeed
perished in the attempt, but, though the head of the mutiny was thus removed,
there yet remained in many of the soldiers the consciousness of guilt.
There were even men who talked in angry terms of the feebleness and avarice
of Galba. The strictness once so commended, and celebrated in the praises
of the army, was galling to troops who rebelled against the old discipline,
and who had been accustomed by fourteen years' service under Nero to love
the vices of their emperors, as much as they had once respected their virtues.
To all this was added Galba's own expression, "I choose my soldiers,
I do not buy them," noble words for the commonwealth, but fraught
with peril for himself. His other acts were not after this pattern. 
[1.6] Titus Vinius and Cornelius Laco,
one the most worthless, the other the most spiritless of mankind, were
ruining the weak old Emperor, who had to bear the odium of such crimes
and the scorn felt for such cowardice. Galba's progress had been slow and
blood-stained. Cingonius Varro, consul elect, and Petronius Turpilianus,
a man of consular rank, were put to death; the former as an accomplice
of Nymphidius, the latter as one of Nero's generals. Both had perished
without hearing or defence, like innocent men. His entry into the capital,
made after the slaughter of thousands of unarmed soldiers, was most ill-omened,
and was terrible even to the executioners. As he brought into the city
his Spanish legion, while that which Nero had levied from the fleet still
remained, Rome was full of strange troops. There were also many detachments
from Germany, Britain, and Illyria, selected by Nero, and sent on by him
to the Caspian passes, for service in the expedition which he was preparing
against the Albani, but afterwards recalled to crush the insurrection of
Vindex. Here there were vast materials for a revolution, without indeed
a decided bias towards any one man, but ready to a daring hand. 
[1.7] In this conjuncture it happened
that tidings of the deaths of Fonteius Capito and Clodius Macer reached
the capital. Macer was executed in Africa, where he was undoubtedly fomenting
sedition, by Trebonius Garutianus the procurator, who acted on Galba's
authority; Capito fell in Germany, while he was making similar attempts,
by the hands of Cornelius Aquinus and Fabius Valens, legates of legions,
who did not wait for an order. There were however some who believed that
Capito, though foully stained with avarice and profligacy, had yet abstained
from all thought of revolution, that this was a treacherous accusation
invented by the commanders themselves, who had urged him to take up arms,
when they found themselves unable to prevail, and that Galba had approved
of the deed, either from weakness of character, or to avoid investigation
into the circumstances of acts which could not be altered. Both executions,
however, were unfavourably regarded; indeed, when a ruler once becomes
unpopular, all his acts, be they good or bad, tell against him. The freedmen
in their excessive power were now putting up everything for sale; the slaves
caught with greedy hands at immediate gain, and, reflecting on their master's
age, hastened to be rich. The new court had the same abuses as the old,
abuses as grievous as ever, but not so readily excused. Even the age of
Galba caused ridicule and disgust among those whose associations were with
the youth of Nero, and who were accustomed, as is the fashion of the vulgar,
to value their emperors by the beauty and grace of their persons. 
[1.8] Such, as far as one can speak of
so vast a multitude, was the state of feeling at Rome. Among the provinces,
Spain was under the government of Cluvius Rufus, an eloquent man, who had
all the accomplishments of civil life, but who was without experience in
war. Gaul, besides remembering Vindex, was bound to Galba by the recently
conceded privileges of citizenship, and by the diminution of its future
tribute. Those Gallic states, however, which were nearest to the armies
of Germany, had not been treated with the same respect, and had even in
some cases been deprived of their territory; and these were reckoning the
gains of others and their own losses with equal indignation. The armies
of Germany were at once alarmed and angry, a most dangerous temper when
allied with such strength; while elated by their recent victory, they feared
because they might seem to have supported an unsuccessful party. They had
been slow to revolt from Nero, and Verginius had not immediately declared
for Galba; it was doubtful whether he had himself wished to be emperor,
but all agreed that the empire had been offered to him by the soldiery.
Again, the execution of Capito was a subject of indignation, even with
those who could not complain of its injustice. They had no leader, for
Verginius had been withdrawn on the pretext of his friendship with the
Emperor. That he was not sent back, and that he was even impeached, they
regarded as an accusation against themselves. 
[1.9] The army of Upper Germany despised
their legate, Hordeonius Flaccus, who, disabled by age and lameness, had
no strength of character and no authority; even when the soldiery were
quiet, he could not control them, much more in their fits of frenzy were
they irritated by the very feebleness of his restraint. The legions of
Lower Germany had long been without any general of consular rank, until,
by the appointment of Galba, Aulus Vitellius took the command. He was son
of that Vitellius who was censor and three times consul; this was thought
sufficient recommendation. In the army of Britain there was no angry feeling;
indeed no troops behaved more blamelessly throughout all the troubles of
these civil wars, either because they were far away and separated by the
ocean from the rest of the empire, or because continual warfare had taught
them to concentrate their hatred on the enemy. Illyricum too was quiet,
though the legions drawn from that province by Nero had, while lingering
in Italy, sent deputations to Verginius. But separated as these armies
were by long distances, a thing of all others the most favourable for keeping
troops to their duty, they could neither communicate their vices, nor combine
their strength. 
[1.10] In the East there was as yet
no movement. Syria and its four legions were under the command of Licinius
Mucianus, a man whose good and bad fortune were equally famous. In his
youth he had cultivated with many intrigues the friendship of the great.
His resources soon failed, and his position became precarious, and as he
also suspected that Claudius had taken some offence, he withdrew into a
retired part of Asia, and was as like an exile, as he was afterwards like
an emperor. He was a compound of dissipation and energy, of arrogance and
courtesy, of good and bad qualities. His self-indulgence was excessive,
when he had leisure, yet whenever he had served, he had shown great qualities.
In his public capacity he might be praised; his private life was in bad
repute. Yet over subjects, friends, and colleagues, he exercised the influence
of many fascinations. He was a man who would find it easier to transfer
the imperial power to another, than to hold it for himself. Flavius Vespasian,
a general of Nero's appointment, was carrying on the war in Judaea with
three legions, and he had no wish or feeling adverse to Galba. He had in
fact sent his son Titus to acknowledge his authority and bespeak his favour,
as in its proper place I shall relate. As for the hidden decrees of fate,
the omens and the oracles that marked out Vespasian and his sons for imperial
power, we believed in them only after his success. 
[1.11] Ever since the time of the Divine
Augustus Roman Knights have ruled Egypt as kings, and the forces by which
it has to be kept in subjection. It has been thought expedient thus to
keep under home control a province so difficult of access, so productive
of corn, ever distracted, excitable, and restless through the superstition
and licentiousness of its inhabitants, knowing nothing of laws, and unused
to civil rule. Its governor was at this time Tiberius Alexander, a native
of the country. Africa and its legions, now that Clodius Macer was dead,
were disposed to be content with any emperor, after having experienced
the rule of a smaller tyrant. The two divisions of Mauritania, Rhaetia,
Noricum and Thrace and the other provinces governed by procurators, as
they were near this or that army, were driven by the presence of such powerful
neighbours into friendship or hostility. The unarmed provinces with Italy
at their head were exposed to any kind of slavery, and were ready to become
the prize of victory. Such was the state of the Roman world, when Servius
Galba, consul for the second time, with T. Vinius for his colleague, entered
upon a year, which was to be the last of their lives, and which well nigh
brought the commonwealth to an end. 
[1.12] A few days after the 1st of January,
there arrived from Belgica despatches of Pompeius Propinquus, the Procurator,
to this effect; that the legions of Upper Germany had broken through the
obligation of their military oath, and were demanding another emperor,
but conceded the power of choice to the Senate and people of Rome, in the
hope that a more lenient view might be taken of their revolt. These tidings
hastened the plans of Galba, who had been long debating the subject of
adoption with himself and with his intimate friends. There was indeed no
more frequent subject of conversation during these months, at first because
men had liberty and inclination to talk of such matters, afterwards because
the feebleness of Galba was notorious. Few had any discrimination or patriotism,
many had foolish hopes for themselves, and spread interested reports, in
which they named this or that person to whom they might be related as friend
or dependant. They were also moved by hatred of T. Vinius, who grew daily
more powerful, and in the same proportion more unpopular. The very easiness
of Galba's temper stimulated the greedy cupidity which great advancement
had excited in his friends, because with one so weak and so credulous wrong
might be done with less risk and greater gain. 
[1.13] The real power of the Empire
was divided between T. Vinius, the consul, and Cornelius Laco, prefect
of the Praetorian Guard. Icelus, a freedman of Galba, was in equal favour;
he had been presented with the rings of knighthood, and bore the Equestrian
name of Martianus. These men, being at variance, and in smaller matters
pursuing their own aims, were divided in the affair of choosing a successor,
into two opposing factions. T. Vinius was for Marcus Otho, Laco and Icelus
agreed, not indeed in supporting any particular individual, but in striving
for some one else. Galba indeed was aware of the friendship between Vinius
and Otho; the gossip of those who allow nothing to pass in silence had
named them as father-in-law and son-in-law, for Vinius had a widowed daughter,
and Otho was unmarried. I believe that he had also at heart some care for
the commonwealth, in vain, he would think, rescued from Nero, if it was
to be left with Otho. For Otho's had been a neglected boyhood and a riotous
youth, and he had made himself agreeable to Nero by emulating his profligacy.
For this reason the Emperor had entrusted to him, as being the confidant
of his amours, Poppaea Sabina, the imperial favourite, until he could rid
himself of his wife Octavia. Soon suspecting him with regard to this same
Poppaea, he sent him out of the way to the province of Lusitania, ostensibly
to be its governor. Otho ruled the province with mildness, and, as he was
the first to join Galba's party, was not without energy, and, while the
war lasted, was the most conspicuous of the Emperor's followers, he was
led to cherish more and more passionately every day those hopes of adoption
which he had entertained from the first. Many of the soldiers favoured
him, and the court was biassed in his favour, because he resembled Nero.

[1.14] When Galba heard of the mutiny
in Germany, though nothing was as yet known about Vitellius, he felt anxious
as to the direction which the violence of the legions might take, while
he could not trust even the soldiery of the capital. He therefore resorted
to what he supposed to be the only remedy, and held a council for the election
of an emperor. To this he summoned, besides Vinius and Laco, Marius Celsus,
consul elect, and Ducennius Geminus, prefect of the city. Having first
said a few words about his advanced years, he ordered Piso Licinianus to
be summoned. It is uncertain whether he acted on his own free choice, or,
as believed by some, under the influence of Laco, who through Rubellius
Plautus had cultivated the friendship of Piso. But, cunningly enough, it
was as a stranger that Laco supported him, and the high character of Piso
gave weight to his advice. Piso, who was the son of M. Crassus and Scribonia,
and thus of noble descent on both sides, was in look and manner a man of
the old type. Rightly judged, he seemed a stern man, morose to those who
estimated him less favourably. This point in his character pleased his
adopted father in proportion as it raised the anxious suspicions of others.

[1.15] We are told that Galba, taking
hold of Piso's hand, spoke to this effect: "If I were a private man,
and were now adopting you by the Act of the Curiae before the Pontiffs,
as our custom is, it would be a high honour to me to introduce into my
family a descendant of Cn. Pompeius and M. Crassus; it would be a distinction
to you to add to the nobility of your race the honours of the Sulpician
and Lutatian houses. As it is, I, who have been called to the throne by
the unanimous consent of gods and men, am moved by your splendid endowments
and by my own patriotism to offer to you, a man of peace, that power, for
which our ancestors fought, and which I myself obtained by war. I am following
the precedent of the Divine Augustus, who placed on an eminence next to
his own, first his nephew Marcellus, then his son-in-law Agrippa, afterwards
his grandsons, and finally Tiberius Nero, his stepson. But Augustus looked
for a successor in his own family, I look for one in the state, not because
I have no relatives or companions of my campaigns, but because it was not
by any private favour that I myself received the imperial power. Let the
principle of my choice be shown not only by my connections which I have
set aside for you, but by your own. You have a brother, noble as yourself,
and older, who would be well worthy of this dignity, were you not worthier.
Your age is such as to be now free from the passions of youth, and such
your life that in the past you have nothing to excuse. Hitherto, you have
only borne adversity; prosperity tries the heart with keener temptations;
for hardships may be endured, whereas we are spoiled by success. You indeed
will cling with the same constancy to honor, freedom, friendship, the best
possessions of the human spirit, but others will seek to weaken them with
their servility. You will be fiercely assailed by adulation, by flattery,
that worst poison of the true heart, and by the selfish interests of individuals.
You and I speak together to-day with perfect frankness, but others will
be more ready to address us as emperors than as men. For to urge his duty
upon a prince is indeed a hard matter; to flatter him, whatever his character,
is a mere routine gone through without any heart. 
[1.16] "Could the vast frame of
this empire have stood and preserved its balance without a directing spirit,
I was not unworthy of inaugurating a republic. As it is, we have been long
reduced to a position, in which my age confer no greater boon on the Roman
people than a good successor, your youth no greater than a good emperor.
Under Tuberous, Chairs, and Claudius, we were, so to speak, the inheritance
of a single family. The choice which begins with us will be a substitute
for freedom. Now that the family of the Julii and the Claudii has come
to an end, adoption will discover the worthiest successor. To be begotten
and born of a princely race is a mere accident, and is only valued as such.
In adoption there is nothing that need bias the judgment, and if you wish
to make a choice, an unanimous opinion points out the man. Let Nero be
ever before your eyes, swollen with the pride of a long line of Caesars;
it was not Vindex with his unarmed province, it was not myself with my
single legion, that shook his yoke from our necks. It was his own profligacy,
his own brutality, and that, though there had been before no precedent
of an emperor condemned by his own people. We, who have been called to
power by the issues of war, and by the deliberate judgment of others, shall
incur unpopularity, however illustrious our character. Do not however be
alarmed, if, after a movement which has shaken the world, two legions are
not yet quiet. I did not myself succeed to a throne without anxiety; and
when men shall hear of your adoption I shall no longer be thought old,
and this is the only objection which is now made against me. Nero will
always be regretted by the thoroughly depraved; it is for you and me to
take care, that he be not regretted also by the good. To prolong such advice,
suits not this occasion, and all my purpose is fulfilled if I have made
a good choice in you. The most practical and the shortest method of distinguishing
between good and bad measures, is to think what you yourself would or would
not like under another emperor. It is not here, as it is among nations
despotically ruled, that there is a distinct governing family, while all
the rest are slaves. You have to reign over men who cannot bear either
absolute slavery or absolute freedom." This, with more to the same
effect, was said by Galba; he spoke to Piso as if he were creating an emperor;
the others addressed him as if he were an emperor already. 
[1.17] It is said of Piso that he betrayed
no discomposure or excessive joy, either to the gaze to which he was immediately
subjected, or afterwards when all eyes were turned upon him. His language
to the Emperor, his father, was reverential; his language about himself
was modest. He shewed no change in look or manner; he seemed like one who
had the power rather than the wish to rule. It was next discussed whether
the adoption should be publicly pronounced in front of the Rostra, in the
Senate, or in the camp. It was thought best to go to the camp. This would
be a compliment to the soldiery, and their favour, base as it was to purchase
it by bribery or intrigue, was not to be despised if it could be obtained
by honourable means. Meanwhile the expectant people had surrounded the
palace, impatient to learn the great secret, and those who sought to stifle
the ill-concealed rumour did but spread it the more. 
[1.18] The 10th of January was a gloomy,
stormy day, unusually disturbed by thunder, lightning, and all bad omens
from heaven. Though this had from ancient time been made a reason for dissolving
an assembly, it did not deter Galba from proceeding to the camp; either
because he despised such things as being mere matters of chance, or because
the decrees of fate, though they be foreshewn, are not escaped. Addressing
a crowded assembly of the soldiers he announced, with imperial brevity,
that he adopted Piso, following the precedent of the Divine Augustus, and
the military custom by which a soldier chooses his comrade. Fearing that
to conceal the mutiny would be to make them think it greater than it really
was, he spontaneously declared that the 4th and 18th legions, led by a
few factious persons, had been insubordinate, but had not gone beyond certain
words and cries, and that they would soon return to their duty. To this
speech he added no word of flattery, no hint of a bribe. Yet the tribunes,
the centurions, and such of the soldiers as stood near, made an encouraging
response. A gloomy silence prevailed among the rest, who seemed to think
that they had lost by war that right to a donative which they had made
good even in peace. It is certain that their feelings might have been conciliated
by the very smallest liberality on the part of the parsimonious old man.
He was ruined by his old-fashioned inflexibility, and by an excessive sternness
which we are no longer able to endure. 
[1.19] Then followed Galba's speech
in the Senate, which was as plain and brief as his speech to the soldiery.
Piso delivered a graceful oration and was supported by the feeling of the
Senate. Many who wished him well, spoke with enthusiasm; those who had
opposed him, in moderate terms; the majority met him with an officious
homage, having aims of their own and no thought for the state. Piso neither
said nor did anything else in public in the following four days which intervened
between his adoption and his death. As tidings of the mutiny in Germany
were arriving with daily increasing frequency, while the country was ready
to receive and to credit all intelligence that had an unfavourable character,
the Senate came to a resolution to send deputies to the German armies.
It was privately discussed whether Piso should go with them to give them
a more imposing appearance; they, it was said, would bring with them the
authority of the Senate, he the majesty of the Caesar. It was thought expedient
to send with them Cornelius Laco, prefect of the Praetorian Guard, but
he thwarted the design. In nominating, excusing, and changing the deputies,
the Senate having entrusted the selection to Galba, the Emperor shewed
a disgraceful want of firmness, yielding to individuals, who made interest
to stay or to go, as their fears or their hopes prompted. 
[1.20] Next came the question of money.
On a general inquiry it seemed the fairest course to demand restitution
from those who had caused the public poverty. Nero had squandered in presents
two thousand two hundred million sesterces. It was ordered that each recipient
should be sued, but should be permitted to retain a tenth part of the bounty.
They had however barely a tenth part left, having wasted the property of
others in the same extravagances in which they had squandered their own,
till the most rapacious and profligate among them had neither capital nor
land remaining, nothing in fact but the appliances of their vices. Thirty
Roman Knights were appointed to conduct the process of recovery, a novel
office, and made burdensome by the number and intriguing practices of those
with whom it had to deal. Everywhere were sales and brokers, and Rome was
in an uproar with auctions. Yet great was the joy to think that the men
whom Nero had enriched would be as poor as those whom he had robbed. About
this time were cashiered two tribunes of the Praetorian Guard, Antonius
Taurus and Antonius Naso, an officer of the City cohorts, Aemilius Pacensis,
and one of the watch, Julius Fronto. This led to no amendment with the
rest, but only started the apprehension, that a crafty and timid policy
was getting rid of individuals, while all were suspected. 
[1.21] Otho, meanwhile, who had nothing
to hope while the State was tranquil, and whose whole plans depended on
revolution, was being roused to action by a combination of many motives,
by a luxury that would have embarrassed even an emperor, by a poverty that
a subject could hardly endure, by his rage against Galba, by his envy of
Piso. He even pretended to fear to make himself keener in desire. "I
was, said he, "too formidable to Nero, and I must not look for another
Lusitania, another honourable exile. Rulers always suspect and hate the
man who has been named for the succession. This has injured me with the
aged Emperor, and will injure me yet more with a young man whose temper,
naturally savage, has been rendered ferocious by prolonged exile. How easy
to put Otho to death! I must therefore do and dare now while Galba's authority
is still unsettled, and before that of Piso is consolidated. Periods of
transition suit great attempts, and delay is useless where inaction is
more hurtful than temerity. Death, which nature ordains for all alike,
yet admits of the distinction of being either forgotten, or remembered
with honour by posterity; and, if the same lot awaits the innocent and
the guilty, the man of spirit will at least deserve his fate." 
[1.22] The soul of Otho was not effeminate
like his person. His confidential freedmen and slaves, who enjoyed a license
unknown in private families, brought the debaucheries of Nero's court,
its intrigues, its easy marriages, and the other indulgences of despotic
power, before a mind passionately fond of such things, dwelt upon them
as his if he dared to seize them, and reproached the inaction that would
leave them to others. The astrologers also urged him to action, predicting
from their observation of the heavens revolutions, and a year of glory
for Otho. This is a class of men, whom the powerful cannot trust, and who
deceive the aspiring, a class which will always be proscribed in this country,
and yet always retained. Many of these men were attached to the secret
councils of Poppaea and were the vilest tools in the employ of the imperial
household. One of them, Ptolemaeus, had attended Otho in Spain, and had
there foretold that his patron would survive Nero. Gaining credit by the
result, and arguing from his own conjectures and from the common talk of
those who compared Galba's age with Otho's youth, he had persuaded the
latter that he would be called to the throne. Otho however received the
prediction as the words of wisdom and the intimation of destiny, with that
inclination so natural to the human mind readily to believe in the mysterious.

[1.23] Nor did Ptolemaeus fail to play
his part; he now even prompted to crime, to which from such wishes it is
easy to pass. Whether indeed these thoughts of crime were suddenly conceived,
is doubtful. Otho had long been courting the affections of the soldiery,
either in the hope of succeeding to the throne, or in preparation for some
desperate act. On the march, on parade, and in their quarters, he would
address all the oldest soldiers by name, and in allusion to the progresses
of Nero would call them his messmates. Some he would recognise, he would
inquire after others, and would help them with his money and interest.
He would often intersperse his conversation with complaints and insinuations
against Galba and anything else that might excite the vulgar mind. Laborious
marches, a scanty commissariat, and the rigour of military discipline,
were especially distasteful, when men, accustomed to sail to the lakes
of Campania and the cities of Greece, had painfully to struggle under the
weight of their arms over the Pyrenees, the Alps, and vast distances of
road. 
[1.24] The minds of the soldiery were
already on fire, when Maevius Pudens, a near relative of Tigellinus, added,
so to speak, fuel to the flames. In his endeavour to win over all who were
particularly weak in character, or who wanted money and were ready to plunge
into revolution, he gradually went so far as to distribute, whenever Galba
dined with Otho, one hundred sesterces to each soldier of the cohort on
duty, under pretext of treating them. This, which we may almost call a
public bounty, Otho followed up by presents more privately bestowed on
individuals; nay he bribed with such spirit, that, finding there was a
dispute between Cocceius Proculus, a soldier of the bodyguard, and one
of his neighbours, about some part of their boundaries, he purchased with
his own money the neighbour's entire estate, and made a present of it to
the soldier. He took advantage of the lazy indifference of the Prefect,
who overlooked alike notorious facts and secret practices. 
[1.25] He then entrusted the conduct
of his meditated treason to Onomastus, one of his freedmen, who brought
over to his views Barbius Proculus, officer of the watchword to the bodyguard,
and Veturius, a deputy centurion in the same force. Having assured himself
by various conversations with these men that they were cunning and bold,
he loaded them with presents and promises, and furnished them with money
with which to tempt the cupidity of others. Thus two soldiers from the
ranks undertook to transfer the Empire of Rome, and actually transferred
it. Only a few were admitted to be accomplices in the plot, but they worked
by various devices on the wavering minds of the remainder; on the more
distinguished soldiers, by hinting that the favours of Nymphidius had subjected
them to suspicion; on the vulgar herd, by the anger and despair with which
the repeated postponement of the donative had inspired them. Some were
fired by their recollections of Nero and their longing regrets for their
old license. All felt a common alarm at the idea of having to serve elsewhere.

[1.26] The contagion spread to the legions
and the auxiliary troops, already excited by the news of the wavering loyalty
of the army of Germany. So ripe were the disaffected for mutiny and so
close the secrecy preserved by the loyal, that they would actually have
seized Otho on the 14th of January, as he was returning from dinner, had
they not been deterred by the risks of darkness, the inconvenient dispersion
of the troops over the whole city, and the difficulty of concerted action
among a half-intoxicated crowd. It was no care for the state, which they
deliberately meditated polluting with the blood of their Emperor; it was
a fear lest in the darkness of night any one who presented himself to the
soldiers of the Pannonian or German army might be fixed on instead of Otho,
whom few of them knew. Many symptoms of the approaching outburst were repressed
by those who were in the secret. Some hints, which had reached Galba's
ears, were turned into ridicule by Laco the prefect, who knew nothing of
the temper of the soldiery, and who, inimical to all measures, however
excellent, which he did not originate, obstinately thwarted men wiser than
himself. 
[1.27] On the 15th of January, as Galba
was sacrificing in front of the temple of Apollo, the Haruspex Umbricius
announced to him that the entrails had a sinister aspect, that treachery
threatened him, that he had an enemy at home. Otho heard, for he had taken
his place close by, and interpreted it by contraries in a favourable sense,
as promising success to his designs. Not long after his freedman Onomastus
informed him that the architect and the contractors were waiting for him.
It had been arranged thus to indicate that the soldiers were assembling,
and that the preparations of the conspiracy were complete. To those who
inquired the reason of his departure, Otho pretended that he was purchasing
certain farm-buildings, which from their age he suspected to be unsound,
and which had therefore to be first surveyed. Leaning on his freedman's
arm, he proceeded through the palace of Tiberius to the Velabrum, and thence
to the golden milestone near the temple of Saturn. There three and twenty
soldiers of the body-guard saluted him as Emperor, and, while he trembled
at their scanty number, put him hastily into a chair, drew their swords,
and hurried him onwards. About as many more soldiers joined them on their
way, some because they were in the plot, many from mere surprise; some
shouted and brandished their swords, others proceeded in silence, intending
to let the issue determine their sentiments. 
[1.28] Julius Martialis was the tribune
on guard in the camp. Appalled by the enormity and suddenness of the crime,
or perhaps fearing that the troops were very extensively corrupted and
that it would be destruction to oppose them, he made many suspect him of
complicity. The rest of the tribunes and centurions preferred immediate
safety to danger and duty. Such was the temper of men's minds, that, while
there were few to venture on so atrocious a treason, many wished it done,
and all were ready to acquiesce. 
[1.29] Meanwhile the unconscious Galba,
busy with his sacrifice, was importuning the gods of an empire that was
now another's. A rumour reached him, that some senator unknown was being
hurried into the camp; before long it was affirmed that this senator was
Otho. At the same time came messengers from all parts of the city, where
they had chanced to meet the procession, some exaggerating the danger,
some, who could not even then forget to flatter, representing it as less
than the reality. On deliberation it was determined to sound the feeling
of the cohort on guard in the palace, but not through Galba in person,
whose authority was to be kept unimpaired to meet greater emergencies.
They were accordingly collected before the steps of the palace, and Piso
addressed them as follows:- "Comrades, this is the sixth day since
I became a Caesar by adoption, not knowing what was to happen, whether
this title was to be desired, or dreaded. It rests with you to determine
what will be the result to my family and to the state. It is not that I
dread on my own account the gloomier issue; for I have known adversity,
and I am learning at this very moment that prosperity is fully as dangerous.
It is the lot of my father, of the Senate, of the Empire itself, that I
deplore, if we have either to fall this day, or to do what is equally abhorrent
to the good, to put others to death. In the late troubles we had this consolation,
a capital unstained by bloodshed, and power transferred without strife.
It was thought that by my adoption provision was made against the possibility
of war, even after Galba's death. 
[1.30] "I will lay no claim to
nobleness, or moderation, for indeed, to count up virtues in comparing
oneself with Otho is needless. The vices, of which alone he boasts, overthrew
the Empire, even when he was but the Emperor's friend. Shall he earn that
Empire now by his manner and his gait, or by those womanish adornments?
They are deceived, on whom luxury imposes by its false show of liberality;
he will know how to squander, he will not know how to give. Already he
is thinking of debaucheries, of revels, of tribes of mistresses. These
things he holds to be the prizes of princely power, things, in which the
wanton enjoyment will be for him alone, the shame and the disgrace for
all. Never yet has any one exercised for good ends the power obtained by
crime. The unanimous will of mankind gave to Galba the title of Caesar,
and you consented when he gave it to me. Were the Senate, the Country,
the People, but empty names, yet, comrades, it is your interest that the
most worthless of men should not create an Emperor. We have occasionally
heard of legions mutinying against their generals, but your loyalty, your
character, stand unimpeached up to this time. Even with Nero, it was he
that deserted you, not you that deserted him. Shall less than thirty runaways
and deserters whom no one would allow to choose a tribune or centurion
for themselves, assign the Empire at their pleasure? Do you tolerate the
precedent? Do you by your inaction make the crime your own? This lawless
spirit will pass into the provinces, and though we shall suffer from this
treason, you will suffer from the wars that will follow. Again, no more
is offered you for murdering your Prince, than you will have if you shun
such guilt. We shall give you a donative for your loyalty, as surely as
others can give it for your treason." 
[1.31] The soldiers of the body-guard
dispersed, but the rest of the cohort, who shewed no disrespect to the
speaker, displayed their standards, acting, as often happens in a disturbance,
on mere impulse and without any settled plan, rather than, as was afterwards
believed, with treachery and an intention to deceive. Celsus Marius was
sent to the picked troops from the army of Illyricum, then encamped in
the Portico of Vipsanius. Instructions were also given to Amulius Serenus
and Quintius Sabinus, centurions of the first rank, to bring up the German
soldiers from the Hall of Liberty. No confidence was placed in the legion
levied from the fleet, which had been enraged by the massacre of their
comrades, whom Galba had slaughtered immediately on his entry into the
capital. Meanwhile Cetrius Severus, Subrius Dexter, and Pompeius Longinus,
all three military tribunes, proceeded to the Praetorian camp, in the hope
that a sedition, which was but just commencing, and not yet fully matured,
might be swayed by better counsels. Two of these tribunes, Subrius and
Cetrius, the soldiers assailed with menaces; Longinus they seized and disarmed;
it was not his rank as an officer, but his friendship with Galba, that
bound him to that Prince, and roused a stronger suspicion in the mutineers.
The legion levied from the fleet joined the Praetorians without any hesitation.
The Illyrian detachments drove Celsus away with a shower of javelins. The
German veterans wavered long. Their frames were still enfeebled by sickness,
and their minds were favourably disposed towards Galba, who, finding them
exhausted by their long return voyage from Alexandria, whither they had
been sent on by Nero, had supplied their wants with a most unsparing attention.

[1.32] The whole populace and the slaves
with them were now crowding the palace, clamouring with discordant shouts
for the death of Otho and the destruction of the conspirators, just as
if they were demanding some spectacle in the circus or amphitheatre. They
had not indeed any discrimination or sincerity, for on that same day they
would raise with equal zeal a wholly different cry. It was their traditional
custom to flatter any ruler with reckless applause and meaningless zeal.
Meanwhile two suggestions were keeping Galba in doubt. T. Vinius thought
that he should remain within the palace, array the slaves against the foe,
secure the approaches, and not go out to the enraged soldiers. "You
should," he said, "give the disaffected time to repent, the loyal
time to unite. Crimes gain by hasty action, better counsels by delay. At
all events, you will still have the same facilities of going out, if need
be, whereas, your retreat, should you repent of having gone, will be in
the power of another." 
[1.33] The rest were for speedy action,
"before," they said, "the yet feeble treason of this handful
of men can gather strength. Otho himself will be alarmed, Otho, who stole
away to be introduced to a few strangers, but who now, thanks to the hesitation
and inaction in which we waste our time, is learning how to play the Prince.
We must not wait till, having arranged matters in the camp, he bursts into
the Forum, and under Galba's very eyes makes his way to the Capitol, while
our noble Emperor with his brave friends barricades the doors of his palace.
We are to stand a siege forsooth, and truly we shall have an admirable
resource in the slaves, if the unanimous feeling of this vast multitude,
and that which can do so much, the first burst of indignation, be suffered
to subside. Moreover that cannot be safe which is not honourable. If we
must fall, let us go to meet the danger. This will bring more odium upon
Otho, and will be more becoming to ourselves." Vinius opposing this
advice, Laco assailed him with threats, encouraged by Icelus, who persisted
in his private animosities to the public ruin. 
[1.34] Without further delay Galba sided
with these more plausible advisers. Piso was sent on into the camp, as
being a young man of noble name, whose popularity was of recent date, and
who was a bitter enemy to T. Vinius, that is, either he was so in reality,
or these angry partisans would have it so, and belief in hatred is but
too ready. Piso had hardly gone forth when there came a rumour, at first
vague and wanting confirmation, that Otho had been slain in the camp; soon,
as happens with these great fictions, men asserted that they had been present,
and had seen the deed; and, between the delight of some and the indifference
of others, the report was easily believed. Many thought the rumour had
been invented and circulated by the Othonianists, who were now mingling
with the crowd, and who disseminated these false tidings of success to
draw Galba out of the palace. 
[1.35] Upon this not only did the people
and the ignorant rabble break out into applause and vehement expressions
of zeal, but many of the Knights and Senators, losing their caution as
they laid aside their fear, burst open the doors of the palace, rushed
in, and displayed themselves to Galba, complaining that their revenge had
been snatched from them. The most arrant coward, the man, who, as the event
proved, would dare nothing in the moment of danger, was the most voluble
and fierce of speech. No one knew anything, yet all were confident in assertion,
till at length Galba in the dearth of all true intelligence, and overborne
by the universal delusion, assumed his cuirass, and as, from age and bodily
weakness, he could not stand up against the crowd that was still rushing
in, he was elevated on a chair. He was met in the palace by Julius Atticus,
a soldier of the body-guard, who, displaying a bloody sword, cried "I
have slain Otho." "Comrade," replied Galba, "who gave
the order?" So singularly resolute was his spirit in curbing the license
of the soldiery; threats did not dismay him, nor flatteries seduce. 
[1.36] There was now no doubt about
the feeling of all the troops in the camp. So great was their zeal, that,
not content with surrounding Otho with their persons in close array, they
elevated him to the pedestal, on which a short time before had stood the
gilt statue of Galba, and there, amid the standards, encircled him with
their colours. Neither tribunes nor centurions could approach. The common
soldiers even insisted that all the officers should be watched. Everything
was in an uproar with their tumultuous cries and their appeals to each
other, which were not, like those of a popular assembly or a mob, the discordant
expressions of an idle flattery; on the contrary, as soon as they caught
sight of any of the soldiers who were flocking in, they seized him, gave
him the military embrace, placed him close to Otho, dictated to him the
oath of allegiance, commending sometimes the Emperor to his soldiers, sometimes
the soldiers to their Emperor. Otho did not fail to play his part; he stretched
out his arms, and bowed to the crowd, and kissed his hands, and altogether
acted the slave, to make himself the master. It was when the whole legion
from the fleet had taken the oath to him, that feeling confidence in his
strength, and thinking that the men, on whose individual feeling he had
been working, should be roused by a general appeal, he stood before the
rampart of the camp, and spoke as follows: 
[1.37] "Comrades, I cannot say
in what character I have presented myself to you; I refuse to call myself
a subject, now that you have named me Prince, or Prince, while another
reigns. Your title also will be equally uncertain, so long as it shall
be a question, whether it is the Emperor of the Roman people, or a public
enemy, whom you have in your camp. Mark you, how in one breath they cry
for my punishment and for your execution. So evident it is, that we can
neither perish, nor be saved, except together. Perhaps, with his usual
clemency, Galba has already promised that we should die, like the man,
who, though no one demanded it, massacred so many thousands of perfectly
guiltless soldiers. A shudder comes over my soul, whenever I call to mind
that ghastly entry, Galba's solitary victory, when, before the eyes of
the capital he gave orders to decimate the prisoners, the suppliants, whom
he had admitted to surrender. These were the auspices with which he entered
the city. What is the glory that he has brought to the throne? None but
that he has murdered Obultronius Sabinus and Cornelius Marcellus in Spain,
Betuus Chilo in Gaul, Fonteius Capito in Germany, Clodius Macer in Africa,
Cingonius on the high road, Turpilianus in the city, Nymphidius in the
camp. What province, what camp in the world, but is stained with blood
and foul with crime, or, as he expresses it himself, purified and chastened?
For what others call crimes he calls reforms, and, by similar misnomers,
he speaks of strictness instead of barbarity, of economy instead of avarice,
while the cruelties and affronts inflicted upon you he calls discipline.
Seven months only have passed since Nero fell, and already Icelus has seized
more than the Polycleti, the Vatinii, and the Elii amassed. Vinius would
not have gone so far with his rapacity and lawlessness had he been Emperor
himself; as it is, he has lorded it over us as if we had been his own subjects,
has held us as cheap as if we had been another's. That one house would
furnish the donative, which is never given you, but with which you are
daily upbraided. 
[1.38] "Again, that we might have
nothing to hope even from his successor, Galba fetches out of exile the
man in whose ill-humour and avarice he considers that he has found the
best resemblance to himself. You witnessed, comrades, how by a remarkable
storm even the Gods discountenanced that ill-starred adoption; and the
feeling of the Senate, of the people of Rome, is the same. It is to your
valour that they look, in you these better counsels find all their support,
without you, noble as they may be, they are powerless. It is not to war
or to danger that I invite you; the swords of all Roman soldiers are with
us. At this moment Galba has but one half-armed cohort, which is detaining,
not defending him. Let it once behold you, let it receive my signal, and
the only strife will be, who shall oblige me most. There is no room for
delay in a business which can only be approved when it is done." He
then ordered the armoury to be opened. The soldiers immediately seized
the arms without regard to rule or military order, no distinction being
observed between Praetorians and legionaries, both of whom again indiscriminately
assumed the shields and helmets of the auxiliary troops. No tribune or
centurion encouraged them, every man acted on his own impulse and guidance,
and the vilest found their chief incitement in the dejection of the good.

[1.39] Meanwhile, appalled by the roar
of the increasing sedition and by the shouts which reached the city, Piso
had overtaken Galba, who in the interval had quitted the palace, and was
approaching the Forum. Already Marius Celsus had brought back discouraging
tidings. And now some advised that the Emperor should return to the palace,
others that he should make for the Capitol, many again that he should occupy
the Rostra, though most did but oppose the opinions of others, while, as
ever happens in these ill-starred counsels, plans for which the opportunity
had slipped away seemed the best. It is said that Laco, without Galba's
knowledge, meditated the death of Vinius, either hoping by this execution
to appease the fury of the soldiers, or believing him to be an accomplice
of Otho, or, it may be, out of mere hatred. The time and the place however
made him hesitate; he knew that a massacre once begun is not easily checked.
His plan too was disconcerted by a succession of alarming tidings, and
the desertion of immediate adherents. So languid was now the zeal of those
who had at first been eager to display their fidelity and courage. 
[1.40] Galba was hurried to and fro
with every movement of the surging crowd; the halls and temples all around
were thronged with spectators of this mournful sight. Not a voice was heard
from the people or even from the rabble. Everywhere were terror-stricken
countenances, and ears turned to catch every sound. It was a scene neither
of agitation nor of repose, but there reigned the silence of profound alarm
and profound indignation. Otho however was told that they were arming the
mob. He ordered his men to hurry on at full speed, and to anticipate the
danger. Then did Roman soldiers rush forward like men who had to drive
a Vologeses or Pacorus from the ancestral throne of the Arsacidae, not
as though they were hastening to murder their aged and defenceless Emperor.
In all the terror of their arms, and at the full speed of their horses,
they burst into the Forum, thrusting aside the crowd and trampling on the
Senate. Neither the sight of the Capitol, nor the sanctity of the overhanging
temples, nor the thought of rulers past or future, could deter them from
committing a crime, which any one succeeding to power must avenge. 
[1.41] When this armed array was seen
to approach, the standard-bearer of the cohort that escorted Galba (he
is said to have been one Atilius Vergilio) tore off and dashed upon the
ground Galba's effigy. At this signal the feeling of all the troops declared
itself plainly for Otho. The Forum was deserted by the flying populace.
Weapons were pointed against all who hesitated. Near the lake of Curtius,
Galba was thrown out of his litter and fell to the ground, through the
alarm of his bearers. His last words have been variously reported according
as men hated or admired him. Some have said that he asked in a tone of
entreaty what wrong he had done, and begged a few days for the payment
of the donative. The more general account is, that he voluntarily offered
his neck to the murderers, and bade them haste and strike, if it seemed
to be for the good of the Commonwealth. To those who slew him mattered
not what he said. About the actual murderer nothing is clearly known. Some
have recorded the name of Terentius, an enrolled pensioner, others that
of Lecanius; but it is the current report that one Camurius, a soldier
of the 15th legion, completely severed his throat by treading his sword
down upon it. The rest of the soldiers foully mutilated his arms and legs,
for his breast was protected, and in their savage ferocity inflicted many
wounds even on the headless trunk. 
[1.42] They next fell on T. Vinius;
and in his case also it is not known whether the fear of instant death
choked his utterance, or whether he cried out that Otho had not given orders
to slay him. Either he invented this in his terror, or he thus confessed
his share in the conspiracy. His life and character incline us rather to
believe that he was an accomplice in the crime which he certainly caused.
He fell in front of the temple of the Divine Julius, and at the first blow,
which struck him on the back of the knee; immediately afterwards Julius
Carus, a legionary, ran him through the body. 
[1.43] A noble example of manhood was
on that day witnessed by our age in Sempronius Densus. He was a centurion
in a cohort of the Praetorian Guard, and had been appointed by Galba to
escort Piso. Rushing, dagger in hand, to meet the armed men, and upbraiding
them with their crime, he drew the attention of the murderers on himself
by his exclamations and gestures, and thus gave Piso, wounded as he was,
an opportunity of escape. Piso made his way to the temple of Vesta, where
he was admitted by the compassion of one of the public slaves, who concealed
him in his chamber. There, not indeed through the sanctity of the place
or its worship, but through the obscurity of his hiding-place, he obtained
a respite from instant destruction, till there came, by Otho's direction
and specially eager to slay him, Sulpicius Florus, of the British auxiliary
infantry, to whom Galba had lately given the citizenship, and Statius Murcus,
one of the body-guard. Piso was dragged out by these men and slaughtered
in the entrance of the temple. 
[1.44] There was, we are told, no death
of which Otho heard with greater joy, no head which he surveyed with so
insatiable a gaze. Perhaps it was, that his mind was then for the first
time relieved from all anxiety, and so had leisure to rejoice; perhaps
there was with Galba something to recall departed majesty, with Vinius
some thought of old friendship, which troubled with mournful images even
that ruthless heart; Piso's death, as that of an enemy and a rival, he
felt to be a right and lawful subject of rejoicing. The heads were fixed
upon poles and carried about among the standards of the cohorts, close
to the eagle of the legion, while those who had struck the blow, those
who had been present, those who whether truly or falsely boasted of the
act, as of some great and memorable achievement, vied in displaying their
bloodstained hands. Vitellius afterwards found more than 120 memorials
from persons who claimed a reward for some notable service on that day.
All these persons he ordered to be sought out and slain, not to honour
Galba, but to comply with the traditional policy of rulers, who thus provide
protection for the present and vengeance for the future. 
[1.45] One would have thought it a different
Senate, a different people. All rushed to the camp, outran those who were
close to them, and struggled with those who were before, inveighed against
Galba, praised the wisdom of the soldiers, covered the hand of Otho with
kisses; the more insincere their demonstrations, the more they multiplied
them. Nor did Otho repulse the advances of individuals, while he checked
the greed and ferocity of the soldiers by word and look. They demanded
that Marius Celsus, consul elect, Galba's faithful friend to the very last
moment, should be led to execution, loathing his energy and integrity as
if they were vices. It was evident that they were seeking to begin massacre
and plunder, and the proscription of all the most virtuous citizens, and
Otho had not yet sufficient authority to prevent crime, though he could
command it. He feigned anger, and ordered him to be loaded with chains,
declaring that he was to suffer more signal punishment, and thus he rescued
him from immediate destruction. 
[1.46] Every thing was then ordered
according to the will of the soldiery. The Praetorians chose their own
prefects. One was Plotius Firmus, who had once been in the ranks, had afterwards
commanded the watch, and who, while Galba was yet alive, had embraced the
cause of Otho. With him was associated Licinius Proculus, Otho's intimate
friend, and consequently suspected of having encouraged his schemes. Flavius
Sabinus they appointed prefect of the city, thus adopting Nero's choice,
in whose reign he had held the same office, though many in choosing him
had an eye to his brother Vespasian. A demand was then made, that the fees
for furloughs usually paid to the centurions should be abolished. These
the common soldiers paid as a kind of annual tribute. A fourth part of
every company might be scattered on furlough, or even loiter about the
camp, provided that they paid the fees to the centurions. No one cared
about the amount of the tax, or the way in which it was raised. It was
by robbery, plunder, or the most servile occupations that the soldiers'
holiday was purchased. The man with the fullest purse was worn out with
toil and cruel usage till he bought his furlough. His means exhausted by
this outlay, and his energies utterly relaxed by idleness, the once rich
and vigorous soldier returned to his company a poor and spiritless man.
One after another was ruined by the same poverty and license, and rushed
into mutiny and dissension, and finally into civil war. Otho, however,
not to alienate the affections of the centurions by an act of bounty to
the ranks, promised that his own purse should pay these annual sums. It
was undoubtedly a salutary reform, and was afterwards under good emperors
established as a permanent rule of the service. Laco, prefect of the city,
who had been ostensibly banished to an island, was assassinated by an enrolled
pensioner, sent on by Otho to do the deed. Martianus Icelus, being but
a freedman, was publicly executed. 
[1.47] A day spent in crime found its
last horror in the rejoicings that concluded it. The Praetor of the city
summoned the Senate; the rest of the Magistrates vied with each other in
their flatteries. The Senators hastily assembled and conferred by decree
upon Otho the tribunitial office, the name of Augustus, and every imperial
honour. All strove to extinguish the remembrance of those taunts and invectives,
which had been thrown out at random, and which no one supposed were rankling
in his heart. Whether he had forgotten, or only postponed his resentment,
the shortness of his reign left undecided. The Forum yet streamed with
blood, when he was borne in a litter over heaps of dead to the Capitol,
and thence to the palace. He suffered the bodies to be given up for burial,
and to be burnt. For Piso, the last rites were performed by his wife Verania
and his brother Scribonianus; for Vinius, by his daughter Crispina, their
heads having been discovered and purchased from the murderers, who had
reserved them for sale. 
[1.48] Piso, who was then completing
his thirty-first year, had enjoyed more fame than good fortune. His brothers,
Magnus and Crassus, had been put to death by Claudius and Nero respectively.
He was himself for many years an exile, for four days a Caesar, and Galba's
hurried adoption of him only gave him this privilege over his elder brother,
that he perished first. Vinius had lived to the age of fifty-seven, with
many changes of character. His father was of a praetorian family, his maternal
grandfather was one of the proscribed. He had disgraced himself in his
first campaign when he served under the legate Calvisius Sabinus. That
officer's wife, urged by a perverse curiosity to view the camp, entered
it by night in the disguise of a soldier, and after extending the insulting
frolic to the watches and the general arrangements of the army, actually
dared to commit the act of adultery in the head-quarters. Vinius was charged
with having participated in her guilt, and by order of Caius was loaded
with irons. The altered times soon restored him to liberty. He then enjoyed
an uninterrupted succession of honours, first filling the praetorship,
and then commanding a legion with general satisfaction, but he subsequently
incurred the degrading imputation of having pilfered a gold cup at the
table of Claudius, who the next day directed that he alone should be served
on earthenware. Yet as proconsul of Gallia Narbonensis he administered
the government with strict integrity. When forced by his friendship with
Galba to a dangerous elevation, he shewed himself bold, crafty, and enterprising;
and whether he applied his powers to vice or virtue, was always equally
energetic. His will was made void by his vast wealth; that of Piso owed
its validity to his poverty. 
[1.49] The body of Galba lay for a long
time neglected, and subjected, through the license which the darkness permitted,
to a thousand indignities, till Argius his steward, who had been one of
his slaves, gave it a humble burial in his master's private gardens. His
head, which the sutlers and camp-followers had fixed on a pole and mangled,
was found only the next day in front of the tomb of Patrobius, a freedman
of Nero's, whom Galba had executed. It was put with the body, which had
by that time been reduced to ashes. Such was the end of Servius Galba,
who in his seventy-three years had lived prosperously through the reigns
of five Emperors, and had been more fortunate under the rule of others
than he was in his own. His family could boast an ancient nobility, his
wealth was great. His character was of an average kind, rather free from
vices, than distinguished by virtues. He was not regardless of fame, nor
yet vainly fond of it. Other men's money he did not covet, with his own
he was parsimonious, with that of the State avaricious. To his freedmen
and friends he shewed a forbearance, which, when he had fallen into worthy
hands, could not be blamed; when, however, these persons were worthless,
he was even culpably blind. The nobility of his birth and the perils of
the times made what was really indolence pass for wisdom. While in the
vigour of life, he enjoyed a high military reputation in Germany; as proconsul
he ruled Africa with moderation, and when advanced in years shewed the
same integrity in Eastern Spain. He seemed greater than a subject while
he was yet in a subject's rank, and by common consent would have been pronounced
equal to empire, had he never been emperor. 
[1.50] The alarm of the capital, which
trembled to see the atrocity of these recent crimes, and to think of the
old character of Otho, was heightened into terror by the fresh news about
Vitellius, news which had been suppressed before the murder of Galba, in
order to make it appear that only the army of Upper Germany had revolted.
That two men, who for shamelessness, indolence, and profligacy, were the
most worthless of mortals, had been selected, it would seem, by some fatality
to ruin the Empire, became the open complaint, not only of the Senate and
the Knights, who had some stake and interest in the country, but even of
the common people. It was no longer to the late horrors of a dreadful peace,
but to the recollections of the civil wars, that men recurred, speaking
of how the capital had been taken by Roman armies, how Italy had been wasted
and the provinces spoiled, of Pharsalia, Philippi, Perusia, and Mutina,
and all the familiar names of great public disasters. "The world,"
they said, "was well-nigh turned upside down when the struggle for
empire was between worthy competitors, yet the Empire continued to exist
after the victories of Caius Julius and Caesar Augustus; the Republic would
have continued to exist under Pompey and Brutus. And is it for Otho or
for Vitellius that we are now to repair to the temples? Prayers for either
would be impious, vows for either a blasphemy, when from their conflict
you can only learn that the conqueror must be the worse of the two."
Some were speculating on Vespasian and the armies of the East. Vespasian
was indeed preferable to either, yet they shuddered at the idea of another
war, of other massacres. Even about Vespasian there were doubtful rumours,
and he, unlike any of his predecessors, was changed for the better by power.

[1.51] I will now describe the origin
and occasion of the revolt of Vitellius. After the destruction of Julius
Vindex and his whole force, the army, flushed with the delights of plunder
and glory, as men might well be who had been fortunate enough to triumph
without toil or danger in a most lucrative war, began to hanker after compaigns
and battles, and to prefer prize money to pay. They had long endured a
service which the character of the country and of the climate and the rigours
of military discipline rendered at once unprofitable and severe. But that
discipline, inexorable as it is in times of peace, is relaxed by civil
strife, when on both sides are found the agents of corruption, and treachery
goes unpunished. They had men, arms and horses, more than enough for all
purposes of utility and show, but before the war they had been acquainted
only with the companies and squadrons of their own force, as the various
armies were separated from each other by the limits of their respective
provinces. But the legions, having been concentrated to act against Vindex,
and having thus learnt to measure their own strength against the strength
of Gaul, were now on the lookout for another war and for new conflicts.
They called their neighbours, not "allies" as of old, but "the
enemy" and "the vanquished." Nor did that part of Gaul which
borders on the Rhine fail to espouse the same cause, and to the bitterest
hostility in inflaming the army against the Galbianists, that being the
name, which in their contempt for Vindex they had given to the party. The
rage first excited against the Sequani and Aedui extended to other states
in proportion to their wealth, and they revelled in imagination on the
storm of cities, the plunder of estates, the sack of dwelling-houses. But,
besides the rapacity and arrogance which are the special faults of superior
strength, they were exasperated by the bravadoes of the Gallic people,
who in a spirit of insult to the army boasted of how they had been relieved
by Galba from a fourth part of their tribute, and had received grants from
the State. There was also a report, ingeniously spread and recklessly believed,
to the effect that the legions were being decimated, and all the most energetic
centurions dismissed. From all quarters arrived the most alarming tidings.
The reports from the capital were unfavourable, while the disaffection
of the colony of Lugdunum, which obstinately adhered to Nero, gave rise
to a multitude of rumours. But it was in the army itself, in its hatreds,
its fears, and even in the security with which a review of its own strength
inspired it, that there was the most abundant material for the exercise
of imagination and credulity. 
[1.52] Just before December 1 in the
preceding year, Aulus Vitellius had visited Lower Germany, and had carefully
inspected the winter quarters of the legions. Many had their rank restored
to them, sentences of degradation were cancelled, and marks of disgrace
partially removed. In most cases he did but court popularity, in some he
exercised a sound discretion, making a salutary change from the meanness
and rapacity which Fonteius Capito had shown in bestowing and withdrawing
promotion. But he seemed a greater personage than a simple consular legate,
and all his acts were invested with an unusual importance. Though sterner
judges pronounced Vitellius to be a man of low tastes, those who were partial
to him attributed to geniality and good nature the immoderate and indiscriminate
prodigality, with which he gave away what was his own, and squandered what
did not belong to him. Besides this, men themselves eager for power were
ready to represent his very vices as virtues. As there were in both armies
many of obedient and quiet habits, so there were many who were as unprincipled
as they were energetic; but distinguished above all for boundless ambition
and singular daring were the legates of the legions, Fabius Valens and
Alienus Caecina. One of these men, Valens, had taken offence against Galba,
under the notion that he had not shewn proper gratitude for his services
in discovering to him the hesitation of Verginius and crushing the plans
of Capito. He now began to urge Vitellius to action. He enlarged on the
zeal of the soldiery. "You have," he said, "everywhere a
great reputation; you will find nothing to stop you in Hordeonius Flaccus;
Britain will be with you; the German auxiliaries will follow your standard.
All the provinces waver in their allegiance. The Empire is held on the
precarious tenure of an aged life, and must shortly pass into other hands.
You have only to open your arms, and to meet the advances of fortune. It
was well for Verginius to hesitate, the scion of a mere Equestrian family,
and son of a father unknown to fame: he would have been unequal to empire,
had he accepted it, and yet been safe though he refused it. But from the
honours of a father who was thrice consul, was censor and colleague of
Caesar, Vitellius has long since derived an imperial rank, while he has
lost the security that belongs to a subject." 
[1.53] These arguments roused the indolent
temper of the man, yet roused him rather to wish than to hope for the throne.
Meanwhile however in Upper Germany Caecina, young and handsome, of commanding
stature, and of boundless ambition, had attracted the favour of the soldiery
by his skilful oratory and his dignified mien. This man had, when quaestor
in Baetica, attached himself with zeal to the party of Galba, who had appointed
him, young as he was, to the command of a legion, but, it being afterwards
discovered that he had embezzled the public money, Galba directed that
he should be prosecuted for peculation. Caecina, grievously offended, determined
to throw everything into confusion, and under the disasters of his country
to conceal his private dishonour. There were not wanting in the army itself
the elements of civil strife. The whole of it had taken part in the war
against Vindex; it had not passed over to Galba till Nero fell; even then
in this transference of its allegiance it had been anticipated by the armies
of Lower Germany. Besides this, the Treveri, the Lingones, and the other
states which Galba had most seriously injured by his severe edicts and
by the confiscation of their territory, were particularly close to the
winter-quarters of the legions. Thence arose seditious conferences, a soldiery
demoralized by intercourse with the inhabitants of the country, and tendencies
in favour of Verginius, which could easily be to the profit of any other
person. 
[1.54] The Lingones, following an old
custom, had sent presents to the legions, right hands clasped together,
an emblem of friendship. Their envoys, who had assumed a studied appearance
of misery and distress, passed through the headquarters and the men's tents,
and complaining, now of their own wrongs, now of the rewards bestowed on
the neighbouring states, and, when they found the soldiers' ears open to
their words, of the perils and insults to which the army itself was exposed,
inflamed the passions of the troops. The legions were on the verge of mutiny,
when Hordeonius Flaccus ordered the envoys to depart, and to make their
departure more secret, directed them to leave the camp by night. Hence
arose a frightful rumour, many asserting that the envoys had been killed,
and that, unless the soldiers provided their own safety, the next thing
would be, that the most energetic of their number, and those who had complained
of their present condition, would be slaughtered under cover of night,
when the rest of the army would know nothing of their fate. The legions
then bound themselves by a secret agreement. Into this the auxiliary troops
were admitted. At first objects of suspicion, from the idea that their
infantry and cavalry were being concentrated in preparation for an attack
on the legions, these troops soon became especially zealous in the scheme.
The bad find it easier to agree for purposes of war than to live in harmony
during peace. 
[1.55] Yet it was to Galba that the
legions of Lower Germany took the oath of fidelity annually administered
on the first of January. It was done, however, after long delay, and then
only by a few voices from the foremost ranks, while the rest preserved
an absolute silence, every one waiting for some bold demonstration from
his neighbour, in obedience to that innate tendency of men, which makes
them quick to follow where they are slow to lead. And even in the various
legions there was a difference of feeling. The soldiers of the 1st and
of the 5th were so mutinous, that some of them threw stones at the images
of Galba. The 15th and 16th legions ventured on nothing beyond uproar and
threatening expressions. They were on the watch for something that might
lead to an outbreak. In the Upper army, however, the 4th and 13th legions,
which were stationed in the same winter-quarters, proceeded on this same
first of January to break in pieces the images of Galba, the 4th legion
being foremost, the 18th shewing some reluctance, but soon joining with
the rest. Not however to seem to throw off all their reverence for the
Empire, they sought to dignify their oath with the now obsolete names of
the Senate and people of Rome. Not a single legate or tribune exerted himself
for Galba; some, as is usual in a tumult, were even conspicuously active
in mutiny, though no one delivered anything like a formal harangue or spoke
from a tribunal. Indeed there was as yet no one to be obliged by such services.

[1.56] Hordeonius Flaccus, the consular
legate, was present and witnessed this outrage, but he dared neither check
the furious mutineers, nor keep the wavering to their duty, nor encourage
the well affected. Indolent and timid, he was reserved from guilt only
by his sloth. Four Centurions of the 18th legion, Nonius Receptus, Donatius
Valens, Romilius Marcellus, Calpurnius Repentinus, striving to protect
the images of Galba, were swept away by a rush of the soldiers and put
in irons. After this no one retained any sense of duty, any recollection
of his late allegiance, but, as usually happens in mutinies, the side of
the majority became the side of all. In the course of the night of the
1st of January, the standard-bearer of the 4th legion, coming to the Colonia
Agrippinensis, announced to Vitellius, who was then at dinner, the news
that the 4th and 18th legions had thrown down the images of Galba, and
had sworn allegiance to the Senate and people of Rome. Such a form of oath
appeared meaningless. It was determined to seize the doubtful fortune of
the hour, and to offer an Emperor to their choice. Vitellius sent envoys
to the legions and their legates, who were to say that the army of Upper
Germany had revolted from Galba, that it was consequently necessary for
them, either to make war on the revolters, or, if they preferred peace
and harmony, to create an Emperor, and who were to suggest, that it would
be less perilous to accept than to look for a chief. 
[1.57] The nearest winter-quarters were
those of the first legion, and Fabius Valens was the most energetic of
the legates. This officer in the course of the following day entered the
Colonia Agrippinensis with the cavalry of the legion and of the auxiliaries,
and together with them saluted Vitellius as Emperor. All the legions belonging
to the same province followed his example with prodigious zeal, and the
army of Upper Germany abandoned the specious names the Senate and people
of Rome, and on the 3rd of January declared for Vitellius. One could be
sure that during those previous two days it had not really been the army
of the State. The inhabitants of Colonia Agrippinensis, the Treveri, and
the Lingones, shewed as much zeal as the army, making offers of personal
service, of horses, of arms and of money, according as each felt himself
able to assist the cause by his own exertions, by his wealth, or by his
talents. Nor was this done only by the leading men in the colonies or the
camps, who had abundant means at hand, and might indulge great expectations
in the event of victory, but whole companies down to the very ranks offered
instead of money their rations, their belts, and the bosses, which, richly
decorated with silver, adorned their arms; so strong were the promptings
from without, their own enthusiasm, and even the suggestions of avarice.

[1.58] Vitellius, after bestowing high
commendation on the zeal of the soldiers, proceeded to distribute among
Roman Knights the offices of the Imperial court usually held by freedmen.
He paid the furlough fees to the centurions out of the Imperial treasury.
While in most instances he acquiesced in the fury of the soldiers, who
clamoured for numerous executions, in some few he eluded it under the pretence
of imprisoning the accused. Pompeius Propinquus, procurator of Belgica,
was immediately put to death. Julius Burdo, prefect of the German fleet,
he contrived to withdraw from the scene of danger. The resentment of the
army had been inflamed against this officer by the belief, that it was
he who had invented the charges and planned the treachery which had destroyed
Capito. The memory of Capito was held in high favour, and with that enraged
soldiery it was possible to slaughter in open day, but to pardon only by
stealth. He was kept in prison, and only set at liberty after the victory
of Vitellius, when the resentment of the soldiery had subsided. Meanwhile,
by way of a victim, the centurion Crispinus was given up to them; this
man had actually imbued his hands in the blood of Capito. Consequently
he was to those who cried for vengeance a more notorious criminal, and
to him who punished a cheaper sacrifice. 
[1.59] Julius Civilis, a man of commanding
influence among the Batavi, was next rescued from like circumstances of
peril, lest that high-spirited nation should be alienated by his execution.
There were indeed in the territory of the Lingones eight Batavian cohorts,
which formed the auxiliary force of the 14th legion, but which had, among
the many dissensions of the time, withdrawn from it; a body of troops which,
to whatever side they might incline, would, whether as allies or enemies,
throw a vast weight into the scale. Vitellius ordered the centurions Nonnius,
Donatius, Romilius, and Calpurnius, of whom I have before spoken, to be
executed. They had been convicted of the crime of fidelity, among rebels
the worst of crimes. New adherents soon declared themselves in Valerius
Asiaticus, legate of the Province of Belgica, whom Vitellius soon after
made his son-in-law, and Junius Blaesus, governor of Gallia Lugdunensis,
who brought with him the Italian Legion and the Taurine Horse, which was
stationed at Lugdunum. The armies of Rhaetia made no delay in at once joining
Vitellius, and even in Britain there was no hesitation. 
[1.60] Of that province Trebellius Maximus
was governor, a man whose sordid avarice made him an object of contempt
and hatred to the army. His unpopularity was heightened by the efforts
of Roscius Caelius, the legate of the 20th legion, who had long been on
bad terms with him, and who now seized the opportunity of a civil war to
break out into greater violence. Trebellius charged him with mutinous designs,
and with disturbing the regularity of military discipline; Caelius retorted
on Trebellius the accusation of having plundered and impoverished the legions.
Meanwhile all obedience in the army was destroyed by these disgraceful
quarrels between its commanders, and the feud rose to such a height that
Trebellius was insulted even by the auxiliaries, and finding himself altogether
isolated, as the infantry and cavalry sided with Caelius, he fled for safety
to Vitellius. Yet the province still enjoyed tranquility, though its consular
governor had been driven from it. It was now ruled by the legates of the
legions, who were equal as to lawful authority, though the audacity of
Caelius made him the more powerful. 
[1.61] After the army of Britain had
joined him, Vitellius, who had now a prodigious force and vast resources,
determined that there should be two generals and two lines of march for
the contemplated war. Fabius Valens was ordered to win over, if possible,
or, if they refused his overtures, to ravage the provinces of Gaul and
to invade Italy by way of the Cottian Alps; Caecina to take the nearer
route, and to march down from the Penine range. To Valens were entrusted
the picked troops of the army of Lower Germany with the eagle of the 5th
legion and the auxiliary infantry and cavalry, to the number of 40,000
armed men; Caecina commanded 30,000 from Upper Germany, the strength of
his force being one legion, the 21st. Both had also some German auxiliaries,
and from this source Vitellius, who was to follow with his whole military
strength, completed his own forces. 
[1.62] Wonderful was the contrast between
the army and the Emperor. The army was all eagerness; they cried out war,
while Gaul yet wavered, and Spain hesitated. "The winter," they
said, "the delays of a cowardly inaction must not stop us. We must
invade Italy, we must seize the capital; in civil strife, where action
is more needed than deliberation, nothing is safer than haste." Vitellius,
on the contrary, was sunk in sloth, and anticipated the enjoyment of supreme
power in indolent luxury and prodigal festivities. By midday he was half-intoxicated,
and heavy with food; yet the ardour and vigour of the soldiers themselves
discharged all the duties of a general as well as if the Emperor had been
present to stimulate the energetic by hope and the indolent by fear. Ready
to march and eager for action, they loudly demanded the signal for starting;
the title of Germanicus was at once bestowed on Vitellius, that of Caesar
he refused to accept, even after his victory. It was observed as a happy
omen for Fabius Valens and the forces which he was conducting to the campaign,
that on the very day on which they set out an eagle moved with a gentle
flight before the army as it advanced, as if to guide it on its way. And
for a long distance so loudly did the soldiers shout in their joy, so calm
and unterrified was the bird, that it was taken as no doubtful omen of
great and successful achievements. 
[1.63] The territory of the Treveri
they entered with all the security naturally felt among allies. But at
Divodurum, a town of the Mediomatrici, though they had been received with
the most courteous hospitality, a sudden panic mastered them. In a moment
they took up arms to massacre an innocent people, not for the sake of plunder,
or fired by the lust of spoil, but in a wild frenzy arising from causes
so vague that it was very difficult to apply a remedy. Soothed at length
by the entreaties of their general, they refrained from utterly destroying
the town; yet as many as four thousand human beings were slaughtered. Such
an alarm was spread through Gaul, that as the army advanced, whole states,
headed by their magistrates and with prayers on their lips, came forth
to meet it, while the women and children lay prostrate along the roads,
and all else that might appease an enemy's fury was offered, though war
there was none, to secure the boon of peace. 
[1.64] Valens received the tidings of
the murder of Galba and the accession of Otho while he was in the country
of the Leuci. The feelings of the soldiers were not seriously affected
either with joy or alarm; they were intent on war. Gaul however ceased
to hesitate: Otho and Vitellius it hated equally, Vitellius it also feared.
The next territory was that of the Lingones who were loyal to Vitellius.
The troops were kindly received, and they vied with each other in good
behaviour. This happy state of things, however, was of short duration owing
to the violence of the auxiliary infantry, which had detached itself, as
before related, from the 14th legion, and had been incorporated by Valens
with his army. First came angry words, then a brawl between the Batavi
and the legionaries, which as the partialities of the soldiers espoused
one or another of the parties was almost kindled into a battle, and would
have been so, had not Valens by punishing a few, reminded Batavi of the
authority which they had now forgotten. Against the Aedui a pretext for
war was sought in vain. That people, when ordered to furnish arms and money,
voluntarily added a supply of provisions. What the Aedui did from fear,
the people of Lugdunum did with delight. Yet the Italian legion and the
Taurine Horse were withdrawn. It was resolved that the 18th cohort should
be left there, as it was their usual winter quarters. Manlius Valens, legate
of the Italian legion, though he had served the party well, was held in
no honour by Vitellius. Fabius Valens had defamed him by secret charges
of which he knew nothing, publicly praising him all the while, that he
might the less suspect the treachery. 
[1.65] The old feud between Lugdunum
and Vienna had been kindled afresh by the late war. They had inflicted
many losses on each other so continuously and so savagely that they could
not have been fighting only for Nero or Galba. Galba had made his displeasure
the occasion for diverting into the Imperial treasury the revenues of Lugdunum,
while he had treated Vienna with marked respect. Thence came rivalry and
dislike, and the two states, separated only by a river, were linked together
by perpetual feud. Accordingly the people of Lugdunum began to work on
the passions of individual soldiers, and to goad them into destroying Vienna,
by reminding them, how that people had besieged their colony, had abetted
the attempts of Vindex, and had recently raised legions for Galba. After
parading these pretexts for quarrel, they pointed out how vast would be
the plunder. From secret encouragement they passed to open entreaty. "Go,"
they said, "to avenge us and utterly destroy this home of Gallic rebellion.
There all are foreigners and enemies; we are a Roman colony, a part of
the Roman army, sharers in your successes and reverses. Fortune may declare
against us. Do not abandon us to an angry foe." 
[1.66] By these and many similar arguments
they so wrought upon the troops, that even the legates and the leaders
of the party did not think it possible to check their fury; but the people
of Vienna, aware of their danger, assumed the veils and chaplets of suppliants,
and, as the army approached, clasped the weapons, knees and feet of the
soldiers, and so turned them from their purpose. Valens also made each
soldier a present of 300 sesterces. After that the antiquity and rank of
the colony prevailed, and the intercession of Valens, who charged them
to respect the life and welfare of the inhabitants, received a favourable
hearing. They were however publicly mulcted of their arms, and furnished
the soldiers with all kinds of supplies from their private means. Report,
however, has uniformly asserted, that Valens himself was bought with a
vast sum. Poor for many years and suddenly growing rich, he could but ill
conceal the change in his fortunes, indulging without moderation the appetites
which a protracted poverty had inflamed, and, after a youth of indigence,
becoming prodigal in old age. The army then proceeded by slow marches through
the territory of the Allobroges and Vocontii, the very length of each day's
march and the changes of encampment being made a matter of traffic by the
general, who concluded disgraceful bargains to the injury of the holders
of land and the magistrates of the different states, and used such menaces,
that at Lucus, a municipal town of the Vocontii, he was on the point of
setting fire to the place, when a present of money soothed his rage. When
money was not forthcoming he was bought off by sacrifices to his lust.
Thus he made his way to the Alps. 
[1.67] Caecina revelled more freely
in plunder and bloodshed. His restless spirit had been provoked by the
Helvetii, a Gallic race famous once for its warlike population, afterwards
for the associations of its name. Of the murder of Galba they knew nothing,
and they rejected the authority of Vitellius. The war originated in the
rapacity and impatience of the 21st legion, who had seized some money sent
to pay the garrison of a fortress, which the Helvetii had long held with
their own troops and at their own expense. The Helvetii in their indignation
intercepted some letters written in the name of the army of Germany, which
were on their way to the legions of Pannonia, and detained the centurion
and some of his soldiers in custody. Caecina, eager for war, hastened to
punish every delinquency, as it occurred, before the offender could repent.
Suddenly moving his camp he ravaged a place, which during a long period
of peace had grown up into something like a town, and which was much resorted
to as an agreeable watering place. Despatches were sent to the Rhaetian
auxiliaries, instructing them to attack the Helvetii in the rear while
the legion was engaging them in front. 
[1.68] Bold before the danger came and
timid in the moment of peril, the Helvetii, though at the commencement
of the movement they had chosen Claudius Severus for their leader, knew
not how to use their arms, to keep their ranks, or to act in concert. A
pitched battle with veteran troops would be destruction, a siege would
be perilous with fortifications old and ruinous. On the one side was Caecina
at the head of a powerful army, on the other were the auxiliary infantry
and cavalry of Rhaetia and the youth of that province, inured to arms and
exercised in habits of warfare. All around were slaughter and devastation.
Wandering to and fro between the two armies, the Helvetii threw aside their
arms, and with a large proportion of wounded and stragglers fled for refuge
to Mount Vocetius. They were immediately dislodged by the attack of some
Thracian infantry. Closely pursued by the Germans and Rhaetians they were
cut down in their forests and even in their hiding places. Thousands were
put to the sword, thousands more were sold into slavery. Every place having
been completely destroyed, the army was marching in regular order on Aventicum,
the capital town, when a deputation was sent to surrender the city. This
surrender was accepted. Julius Alpinus, one of the principal men, was executed
by Caecina, as having been the promoter of the war. All the rest he left
to the mercy or severity of Vitellius. 
[1.69] It is hard to say whether the
envoys from Helvetia found the Emperor or his army less merciful. "Exterminate
the race," was the cry of the soldiers as they brandished their weapons,
or shook their fists in the faces of the envoys. Even Vitellius himself
did not refrain from threatening words and gestures, till at length Claudius
Cossus, one of the Helvetian envoys, a man of well-known eloquence, but
who then concealed the art of the orator under an assumption of alarm,
and was therefore more effective, soothed the rage of the soldiers, who,
like all multitudes, were liable to sudden impulses, and were now as inclined
to pity as they had been extravagant in fury. Bursting into tears and praying
with increasing earnestness for a milder sentence, they procured pardon
and protection for the state. 
[1.70] Caecina while halting for a few
days in the Helvetian territory, till he could learn the decision of Vitellius,
and at the same time making preparations for the passage of the Alps, received
from Italy the good news, that Silius' Horse, which was quartered in the
neighbourhood of Padus, had sworn allegiance to Vitellius. They had served
under him when he was Proconsul in Africa, from which place Nero had soon
afterwards brought them, intending to send them on before himself into
Egypt, but had recalled them in consequence of the rebellion of Vindex.
They were still in Italy, and now, at the instigation of their decurions,
who knew nothing of Otho, but were bound to Vitellius, and who magnified
the strength of the advancing legions and the fame of the German army,
they joined the Vitellianists, and by way of a present to their new Prince
they secured for him the strongest towns of the country north of the Padus,
Mediolanum, Novaria, Eporedia, and Vercellae. This Caecina had learnt from
themselves. Aware that the widest part of Italy could not be held by such
a force as a single squadron of cavalry, he sent on in advance the auxiliary
infantry from Gaul, Lusitania, and Rhaetia, with the veteran troops from
Germany, and Petra's Horse, while he made a brief halt to consider whether
he should pass over the Rhaetian range into Noricum, to attack Petronius,
the procurator, who had collected some auxiliaries, and broken down the
bridges over the rivers, and was thought to be faithful to Otho. Fearing
however that he might lose the infantry and cavalry which he had sent on
in advance, and at the same time reflecting that more honour was to be
gained by holding possession of Italy, and that, wherever the decisive
conflict might take place, Noricum would be included among the other prizes
of victory, he marched the reserves and the heavy infantry through the
Penine passes while the Alps were still covered with the snows of winter.

[1.71] Meanwhile Otho, to the surprise
of all, was not sinking down into luxury and sloth. He deferred his pleasures,
concealed his profligacy, and moulded his whole life to suit the dignity
of empire. Men dreaded all the more virtues so false, and vices so certain
to return. Marius Celsus, consul elect, whom he had rescued from the fury
of the soldiers by pretending to imprison him, he now ordered to be summoned
to the Capitol. He sought to acquire a reputation for clemency by sparing
a distinguished man opposed to his own party. Celsus pleaded guilty to
the charge of faithful adherence to Galba, and even made a merit of such
an example of fidelity. Otho did not treat him as a man to be pardoned,
and, unwilling to blend with the grace of reconciliation the memory of
past hostility, at once admitted him to his intimate friendship, and soon
afterwards appointed him to be one of his generals. By some fatality, as
it seemed, Celsus maintained also to Otho a fidelity as irreproachable
as it was unfortunate. The escape of Celsus gratified the leading men in
the State, was generally praised by the people, and did not displease even
the soldiers, who could not but admire the virtue which provoked their
anger. 
[1.72] Then followed as great a burst
of joy, though from a less worthy cause, when the destruction of Tigellinus
was achieved. Sophonius Tigellinus, a man of obscure birth, steeped in
infamy from his boyhood, and shamelessly profligate in his old age, finding
vice to be his quickest road to such offices as the command of the watch
and of the Praetorian Guard, and to other distinctions due to merit, went
on to practise cruelty, rapacity, and all the crimes of maturer years.
He perverted Nero to every kind of atrocity; he even ventured on some acts
without the Emperor's knowledge, and ended by deserting and betraying him.
Hence there was no criminal, whose doom was from opposite motives more
importunately demanded, as well by those who hated Nero, as by those who
regretted him. During the reign of Galba Tigellinus had been screened by
the influence of Vinius, who alleged that he had saved his daughter. And
doubtless he had preserved her life, not indeed out of mercy, when he had
murdered so many, but to secure for himself a refuge for the future. For
all the greatest villains, distrusting the present, and dreading change,
look for private friendship to shelter them from public detestation, caring
not to be free from guilt, but only to ensure their turn in impunity. This
enraged the people more than ever, the recent unpopularity of Vinius being
superadded to their old hatred against Tigellinus. They rushed from every
part of the city into the palace and forum, and bursting into the circus
and theatre, where the mob enjoy a special license, broke out into seditious
clamours. At length Tigellinus, having received at the springs of Sinuessa
a message that his last hour was come, amid the embraces and caresses of
his mistresses and other unseemly delays, cut his throat with a razor,
and aggravated the disgrace of an infamous life by a tardy and ignominious
death. 
[1.73] About the same time a demand
was made for the execution of Galvia Crispinilla. Various artifices on
the part of the Emperor, who incurred much obloquy by his duplicity, rescued
her from the danger. She had instructed Nero in profligacy, had passed
over into Africa, that she might urge Macer into rebellion, and had openly
attempted to bring a famine upon Rome. Yet she afterwards gained universal
popularity on the strength of her alliance with a man of consular rank,
and lived unharmed through the reigns of Galba, Otho, and Vitellius. Soon
she became powerful as a rich and childless woman, circumstances which
have as great weight in good as in evil times. 
[1.74] Meanwhile frequent letters, disfigured
by unmanly flatteries, were addressed by Otho to Vitellius, with offers
of wealth and favour and any retreat he might select for a life of prodigal
indulgence. Vitellius made similar overtures. Their tone was at first pacific;
and both exhibited a foolish and undignified hypocrisy. Then they seemed
to quarrel, charging each other with debaucheries and the grossest crimes,
and both spoke truth. Otho, having recalled the envoys whom Galba had sent,
dispatched others, nominally from the Senate, to both the armies of Germany,
to the Italian legion, and to the troops quartered at Lugdunum. The envoys
remained with Vitellius too readily to let it be supposed that they were
detained. Some Praetorians, whom Otho had attached to the embassy, ostensibly
as a mark of distinction, were sent back before they could mix with the
legions. Letters were also addressed by Fabius Valens in the name of the
German army to the Praetorian and city cohorts, extolling the strength
of his party, and offering terms of peace. Valens even reproached them
with having transferred the Imperial power to Otho, though it had so long
before been entrusted to Vitellius. 
[1.75] Thus they were assailed by promises
as well as by threats, were told that they were not strong enough for war,
but would lose nothing by peace. Yet all this did not shake the loyalty
of the Praetorians. Nevertheless secret emissaries were dispatched by Otho
to Germany, and by Vitellius to Rome. Both failed in their object. Those
of Vitellius escaped without injury, unnoticed in the vast multitude, knowing
none, and themselves unknown. Those of Otho were betrayed by their strange
faces in a place where all knew each other. Vitellius wrote to Titianus,
Otho's brother, threatening him and his son with death, unless the lives
of his mother and his children were spared. Both families remained uninjured.
This in Otho's reign was perhaps due to fear; Vitellius was victorious,
and gained all the credit of mercy. 
[1.76] The first encouraging tidings
came to Otho from Illyricum. He heard that the legions of Dalmatia, Pannonia,
and Moesia had sworn allegiance to him. Similar intelligence was received
from Spain, and Cluvius Rufus was commended in an edict. Immediately afterwards
it became known that Spain had gone over to Vitellius. Even Aquitania,
bound though it was by the oath of allegiance to Otho which Julius Cordus
had administered, did not long remain firm. Nowhere was there any loyalty
or affection; men changed from one side to the other under the pressure
of fear or necessity. It was this influence of fear that drew over to Vitellius
the province of Gallia Narbonensis, which turned readily to the side that
was at once the nearer and the stronger. The distant provinces, and all
the armies beyond the sea, still adhered to Otho, not from any attachment
to his party, but because there was vast weight in the name of the capital
and the prestige of the Senate, and also because the claims which they
had first heard had prepossessed their minds. The army of Judaea under
Vespasian, and the legions of Syria under Mucianus, swore allegiance to
Otho. Egypt and the Eastern provinces were also governed in his name. Africa
displayed the same obedience, Carthage taking the lead. In that city Crescens,
one of Nero's freedmen (for in evil times even this class makes itself
a power in the State), without waiting for the sanction of the proconsul,
Vipstanus Apronianus, had given an entertainment to the populace by way
of rejoicings for the new reign, and the people, with extravagant zeal,
hastened to make the usual demonstrations of joy. The example of Carthage
was followed the other cities of Africa. 
[1.77] As the armies and provinces were
thus divided, Vitellius, in order to secure the sovereign power, was compelled
to fight. Otho continued to discharge his imperial duties as though it
were a time of profound peace. Sometimes he consulted the dignity of the
Commonwealth, but often in hasty acts, dictated by the expediency of the
moment, he disregarded its honour. He was himself to be consul with his
brother Titianus till the 1st of March; the two following months he assigned
to Verginius as a compliment to the army of Germany. With Verginius was
to be associated Pompeius Vopiscus, avowedly on the ground of their being
old friends, though many regarded the appointment as meant to do honour
to the people of Vienna. The other consulships still remained as Nero or
Galba had arranged them. Caelius Sabinus and his brother Flavius were to
be consuls till the 1st of July; Arrius Antoninus and Marius Celsus from
that time to the 1st of September. Even Vitellius, after his victory, did
not interfere with these appointments. On aged citizens, who had already
held high office, Otho bestowed, as a crowning dignity, pontificates and
augurships, while he consoled the young nobles, who had lately returned
from exile, by reviving the sacerdotal offices, held by their fathers and
ancestors. Cadius Rufus, Pedius Blaesus, Saevinius Pomptinius, who in the
reigns of Claudius and Nero had been convicted under indictments for extortion,
were restored to their rank as Senators. Those who wished to pardon them
resolved by a change of names to make, what had really been rapacity, seem
to have been treason, a charge then so odious that it made even good laws
a dead letter. 
[1.78] By similar bounty Otho sought
to win the affections of the cities and provinces. He bestowed on the colonies
of Hispalis and Emerita some additional families, on the entire people
of the Lingones the privileges of Roman citizenship; to the province of
Baetica he joined the states of Mauritania, and granted to Cappadocia and
Africa new rights, more for display than for permanent utility. In the
midst of these measures, which may find an excuse in the urgency of the
crisis and the anxieties which pressed upon him, he still did not forget
his old amours, and by a decree of the Senate restored the statues of Poppaea.
It is even believed that he thought of celebrating the memory of Nero in
the hope of winning the populace, and persons were found to exhibit statues
of that Prince. There were days on which the people and the soldiers greeted
him with shouts of Nero Otho, as if they were heaping on him new distinction
and honour. Otho himself wavered in suspense, afraid to forbid or ashamed
to acknowledge the title. 
[1.79] Men's minds were so intent on
the civil war, that foreign affairs were disregarded. This emboldened the
Roxolani, a Sarmatian tribe, who had destroyed two cohorts in the previous
winter, to invade Moesia with great hopes of success. They had 9000 cavalry,
flushed with victory and intent on plunder rather than on fighting. They
were dispersed and off their guard, when the third legion together with
some auxiliaries attacked them. The Romans had everything ready for battle,
the Sarmatians were scattered, and in their eagerness for plunder had encumbered
themselves with heavy baggage, while the superior speed of their horses
was lost on the slippery roads. Thus they were cut down as if their hands
were tied. It is wonderful how entirely the courage of this people is,
so to speak, external to themselves. No troops could shew so little spirit
when fighting on foot; when they charge in squadrons, hardly any line can
stand against them. But as on this occasion the day was damp and the ice
thawed, what with the continual slipping of their horses, and the weight
of their coats of mail, they could make no use of their pikes or their
swords, which being of an excessive length they wield with both hands.
These coats are worn as defensive armour by the princes and most distinguished
persons of the tribe. They are formed of plates of iron or very tough hides,
and though they are absolutely impenetrable to blows, yet they make it
difficult for such as have been overthrown by the charge of the enemy to
regain their feet. Besides, the Sarmatians were perpetually sinking in
the deep and soft snow. The Roman soldier, moving easily in his cuirass,
continued to harass them with javelins and lances, and whenever the occasion
required, closed with them with his short sword, and stabbed the defenceless
enemy; for it is not their custom to defend themselves with a shield. A
few who survived the battle concealed themselves in the marshes. There
they perished from the inclemency of the season and the severity of their
wounds. When this success was known, Marcus Aponius, governor of Moesia,
was rewarded with a triumphal statue, while Fulvius Aurelius, Julianus
Titius, and Numisius Lupus, the legates of the legions, received the ensigns
of consular rank. Otho was delighted, and claimed the glory for himself,
as if it were he that commanded success in war, and that had aggrandised
the State by his generals and his armies. 
[1.80] Meanwhile, from a trifling cause,
whence nothing was apprehended, there arose a tumult, which had nearly
proved fatal to the capital. Otho had ordered the 7th cohort to be brought
up to Rome from Ostia, and the charge of arming it was entrusted to Varius
Crispinus, one of the tribunes of the Praetorian Guard. This officer, thinking
that he could carry out the order more at his leisure, when the camp was
quiet, opened the armoury, and ordered the wagons of the cohort to be laden
at night-fall. The time provoked suspicion, the motive challenged accusation,
the elaborate attempt at quiet ended in a disturbance, and the sight of
arms among a drunken crowd excited the desire to use them. The soldiers
murmured, and charged the tribunes and centurions with treachery, alleging
that the households of the Senators were being armed to destroy Otho; many
acted in ignorance and were stupefied by wine, the worst among them were
seeking an opportunity for plunder, the mass was as usual ready for any
new movement, and the military obedience of the better disposed was neutralised
by the darkness. The tribune, who sought to check the movement, and the
strictest disciplinarians among the centurions, were cut down. The soldiers
seized their arms, bared their swords, and, mounted on their horses, made
for the city and the palace. 
[1.81] Otho was giving a crowded entertainment
to the most distinguished men and women of Rome. In their alarm they doubted
whether this was a casual outbreak of the soldiers, or an act of treachery
in the Emperor, and whether to remain and be arrested was a more perilous
alternative than to disperse and fly. At one time making a show of courage,
at another betrayed by their terror, they still watched the countenance
of Otho. And, as it happened, so ready were all to suspect, Otho felt as
much alarm as he inspired. Terrified no less by the Senate's critical position
than by his own, he had forthwith despatched the prefects of the Praetorian
Guard to allay the fury of the soldiery, and he now ordered all to leave
the banquet without delay. Then on all sides officers of state cast aside
the insignia of office, and shunned the retinues of their friends and domestics;
aged men and women wandered in the darkness of night about the various
streets of the city; few went to their homes, most sought the houses of
friends, or some obscure hiding-place in the dwelling of their humblest
dependents. 
[1.82] The rush of the soldiers was
not even checked by the doors of the palace. They burst in upon the banquet
with loud demands that Otho should shew himself. They wounded the tribune,
Julius Martialis, and the prefect, Vitellius Saturninus, who sought to
stem the torrent. On every they brandished their swords, and menaced the
centurions and tribunes at one moment, the whole Senate at another. Their
minds were maddened by a blind panic, and, unable to single out any one
object for their fury, they sought for indiscriminate vengeance. At last
Otho, regardless of his imperial dignity, stood up on a couch, and by dint
of prayers and tears contrived to restrain them. Reluctant and guilty,
they returned to the camp. The next day the houses were closed as they
might be in a captured city. Few of the citizens could be seen in the streets,
the populace were dejected, the soldiers walked with downcast looks, and
seemed gloomy rather than penitent. Licinius Proculus and Plotius Firmus,
the prefects, addressed the companies in the gentler or harsher terms that
suited their respective characters. The end of these harangues was that
5000 sesterces were paid to each soldier. Then did Otho venture to enter
the camp; the tribunes and centurions surrounded him. They had thrown aside
the insignia of their rank, and they demanded release from the toils and
perils of service. The soldiers felt the reproach; returning to their duty,
they even demanded the execution of the ringleaders in the riot. 
[1.83] Otho was aware how disturbed
was the country, and how conflicting the feelings of the soldiery, the
most respectable of whom cried out for some remedy for the existing licence,
while the great mass delighted in riot and in an empire resting on popularity,
and could be most easily urged to civil war by indulgence in tumult and
rapine. At the same time he reflected that power acquired by crime could
not be retained by a sudden assumption of the moderation and of the dignity
of former times, yet he was alarmed by the critical position of the capital
and by the perils of the Senate. Finally, he addressed the troops in these
terms: "Comrades, I am not come that I may move your hearts to love
me, or that I may rouse your courage; love and courage you have in superfluous
abundance. I am come to pray you to put some restraint on your valour,
some check on your affection for me. The origin of the late tumult is to
be traced not to rapacity or disaffection, feelings which have driven many
armies into civil strife, much less to any shrinking from, or fear of danger.
It was your excessive affection for me that roused you to act with more
zeal than discretion. For even honourable motives of action, unless directed
by judgment, are followed by disastrous results. We are now starting for
a campaign. Does the nature of things, does the rapid flight of opportunities,
admit of all intelligence being publicly announced, of every plan being
discussed in the presence of all? It is as needful that the soldiers should
be ignorant of some things as that they should know others. The general's
authority, the stern laws of discipline, require that in many matters even
the centurions and tribunes shall only receive orders. If, whenever orders
are given, individuals may ask questions, obedience ceases, and all command
is at an end. Will you in the field too snatch up your arms in the dead
of night? Shall one or two worthless and drunken fellows, for I cannot
believe that more were carried away by the frenzy of the late outbreak,
imbrue their hands in the blood of centurions and tribunes, and burst into
the tent of their Emperor? 
[1.84] "You indeed did this to
serve me, but in the tumult, the darkness, and the general confusion, an
opportunity may well occur that may be used against me. If Vitellius and
his satellites were allowed to choose, what would be the temper and what
the thoughts with which they would curse us? What would they wish for us
but mutiny and strife, that the private should not obey the centurion,
nor the centurion the tribune, that thus we should rush, horse and foot
together, on our own destruction? Comrades, it is by obeying, not by questioning
the orders of commanders, that military power is kept together. And that
army is the most courageous in the moment of peril, which is the most orderly
before the peril comes. Keep you your arms and your courage, leave it to
me to plan, and to guide your valour. A few were in fault, two will be
punished. Let all the rest blot out the remembrance of that night of infamy.
Never let any army hear those cries against the Senate. To clamour for
the destruction of what is the head of the Empire, and contains all that
is distinguished in the provinces, good God! it is a thing which not even
those Germans, whom Vitellius at this very moment is rousing against us,
would dare to do. Shall any sons of Italy, the true youth of Rome, cry
out for the massacre of an order, by whose splendid distinctions we throw
into the shade the mean and obscure faction of Vitellius? Vitellius is
the master of a few tribes, and has some semblance of an army. We have
the Senate. The country is with us; with them, the country's enemies. What!
do you imagine that this fairest of cities is made up of dwellings and
edifices and piles of stones? These dumb and inanimate things may be indifferently
destroyed and rebuilt. The eternal duration of empire, the peace of nations,
my safety and yours, rest on the security of the Senate. This order which
was instituted under due auspices by the Father and Founder of the city,
and which has lasted without interruption and without decay from the Kings
down to the Emperors, we will bequeath to our descendants, as we have inherited
it from our ancestors. For you give the state its Senators, and the Senate
gives it its Princes." 
[1.85] This speech, which was meant
to touch and to calm the feelings of the soldiers, and the moderate amount
of severity exercised (for Otho had ordered two and no more to be punished),
met with a grateful acceptance, and for the moment reduced to order men
who could not be coerced. Yet tranquillity was not restored to the capital;
there was still the din of arms and all the sights of war, and the soldiers,
though they made no concerted disturbance, had dispersed themselves in
disguise about private houses, and exercised a malignant surveillance over
all whom exalted rank, or distinction of any kind, exposed to injurious
reports. Many too believed that some of the soldiers of Vitellius had come
to the capital to learn the feelings of the different parties. Hence everything
was rife with suspicion, and even the privacy of the family was hardly
exempt from fear. It was however in public that most alarm was felt; with
every piece of intelligence that rumour brought, men changed their looks
and spirits, anxious not to appear discouraged by unfavourable omens, or
too little delighted by success. When the Senate was summoned to the Chamber,
it was hard for them to maintain in all things a safe moderation. Silence
might seem contumacious, and frankness might provoke suspicion, and Otho,
who had lately been a subject, and had used the same language, was familiar
with flattery. Accordingly, they discussed various motions on which they
had put many constructions. Vitellius they called a public enemy and a
traitor to his country, the more prudent contenting themselves with hackneyed
terms of abuse, though some threw out reproaches founded in truth, yet
only did so in the midst of clamour, and when many voices were heard at
once, drowning their own speech in a tumult of words. 
[1.86] Prodigies which were now noised
abroad from various sources increased men's terror. It was said that in
the porch of the Capitol the reins of the chariot, on which stood the goddess
of Victory, had dropped from her hand, that from the chapel of Juno there
had rushed forth a form greater than the form of man, that the statue of
the Divine Julius, which stands on the island in the Tiber, had turned
from the West to the East on a calm and tranquil day, that an ox had spoken
aloud in Etruria, that strange births of animals had taken place, besides
many other things, such as in barbarous ages are observed even during seasons
of peace, but are now heard of only in times of terror. But an alarm greater
than all, because it connected immediate loss with fears for the future,
arose from a sudden inundation of the Tiber. The river became vastly swollen,
broke down the wooden bridge, was checked by the heap of ruins across the
current, and overflowed not only the low and level districts of the capital,
but also much that had been thought safe from such casualties. Many were
swept away in the streets, many more were cut off in their shops and chambers.
The want of employment and the scarcity of provisions caused a famine among
the populace. The poorer class of houses had their foundations sapped by
the stagnant waters, and fell when the river returned to its channel. When
men's minds were no longer occupied by their fears, the fact, that while
Otho was preparing for his campaign, the Campus Martius and the Via Flaminia,
his route to the war, were obstructed by causes either fortuitous or natural,
was regarded as a prodigy and an omen of impending disasters. 
[1.87] Otho, after publicly purifying
the city and weighing various plans for the campaign, determined to march
upon Gallia Narbonensis, as the passes of the Penine and Cottian Alps and
all the other approaches to Gaul were held by the armies of Vitellius.
His fleet was strong and loyal to his cause, for he had enrolled in the
ranks of the legion the survivors of the slaughter at the Milvian bridge,
whom the stern policy of Galba had retained in custody, while to the rest
he had held out hopes of a more honourable service for the future. To the
fleet he had added some city cohorts, and many of the Praetorians, the
stay and strength of his army, who might at once advise and watch the generals.
The command of the expedition was entrusted to Antonius Novellus and Suedius
Clemens, centurions of the first rank, and Aemilius Pacensis, to whom Otho
had restored the rank of tribune, taken from him by Galba. Oscus, a freedman,
retained the charge of the fleet, and went to watch the fidelity of men
more honourable than himself. Suetonius Paullinus, Marius Celsus, and Annius
Gallus, were appointed to command the infantry and cavalry. The Emperor,
however, placed most confidence in Licinius Proculus, prefect of the Praetorian
Guard; an active officer at home, without experience in war, he founded
perpetual accusations on the high influence of Paullinus, on the energy
of Celsus, on the mature judgment of Gallus, in fact, on each man's special
excellence, a thing most easy to do; and thus the unscrupulous and the
cunning were preferred before the modest and the good. 
[1.88] About this time Cornelius Dolabella
was banished to the Colonia Aquinas, but he was not kept in strict or secret
custody; it was not for any crime that he suffered; he was marked out for
suspicion by his ancient name and by his relationship to Galba. Many of
the officers of state and a large proportion of the men of consular rank
Otho ordered to accompany him to the field, not indeed to share or serve
in the campaign, but to form a retinue. Among them was Lucius Vitellius,
whom Otho treated as he treated the rest, and not as though he were the
brother either of an Emperor, or of an enemy. This roused the anxieties
of the capital; no rank was free from apprehension or peril. The leading
men of the Senate either suffered from the infirmities of age, or were
enervated by a prolonged peace; the nobility were indolent and had forgotten
how to fight; the Equestrian order knew nothing of service; and the more
they endeavoured to hide and repress their alarm the more evident was their
terror. On the other hand, there were some who with senseless ostentation
purchased splendid arms and magnificent horses, and some who procured by
way of equipments for the war the luxurious furniture of the banquet and
other incentives to profligacy. The wise looked to the interests of peace
and of the Commonwealth, while the giddy and those who were thoughtless
of the future were inflated with idle hopes. Many whose credit had been
shaken in the years of peace regained their spirits amidst the confusions
of the time, and found their best safety in revolution. 
[1.89] The mob and the people generally,
whose vast numbers cut them off from all interest in the state, began by
degrees to feel the evils of war, now that all the currency had been diverted
to the purposes of the army, and the prices of provisions were raised.
These evils had not equally distressed the common people during the insurrection
of Vindex; the capital was safe, and the war was in the provinces, and,
fought as it was between the legions and Gaul, it seemed but a foreign
campaign. Indeed from the time that the Divine Augustus consolidated the
power of the Caesars, the wars of the Roman people had been in remote places,
and had caused anxiety or brought honour to but one man. Under Tiberius
and Caius men dreaded for the Commonwealth only the miseries of peace.
The rising of Scribonianus against Claudius was crushed as soon as heard
of. Nero was driven from power by evil tidings and rumours rather than
by the sword. Now the legions and the fleets were brought into action,
and with them a force used but on few other occasions, the Praetorian and
city soldiery. In their rear were the provinces of the East and of the
West with all their forces; had they fought under other generals there
was all the material for a protracted war. Many suggested to Otho, as he
was setting out, a religious obstacle in the fact that the sacred shields
had not been restored to their place. He spurned all delay, as having been
Nero's fatal mistake; and the fact that Caecina had now crossed the Alps
urged him to action. 
[1.90] On the 14th of March, after commending
the State to the care of the Senate, he presented to those who had been
recalled from exile what was left of the Neronian confiscations, or had
not yet been paid into the Imperial treasury, a most equitable and apparently
most splendid piece of liberality, but practically worthless, as the property
had been hastily realized long before. Soon afterwards he summoned an assembly,
and enlarged on the dignity of the capital and the unanimity of the Senate
and people in his favour. Of the party of Vitellius he spoke with moderation,
charging the legions with ignorance rather than with crime, and making
no mention of Vitellius himself. This moderation was either his own, or
was due to the writer of the speech, who, fearing for himself, abstained
from invectives against Vitellius. For Otho was believed to avail himself
of the abilities of Galerius Trachalus in civil matters, just as he employed
those of Celsus and Paullinus in war. There were some who recognized the
very style of speaking, which was well known from his constant pleading
at the bar, and which sought to fill the popular ear with a copious and
sonorous diction. The acclamations and cries which habitual flattery prompted
in the people were at once extravagant and false. As if they were applauding
a Dictator like Caesar, or an Emperor like Augustus, they vied with each
other in their zeal and good wishes. They acted not from fear or affection,
but from the mere love of servitude; as it might be in some private household,
each had his own motives, and the public honour now went for nothing. Otho
set out, leaving the peace of the city and the cares of empire in the charge
of his brother Salvius Titianus. 
Book 2 - (March - August, A.D. 69)
[2.1] IN A distant part of the world
fortune was now preparing the origin and rise of a new dynasty, whose varied
destinies brought happiness or misery on the State, prosperity or destruction
on the Princes of its line. Titus Vespasian had been sent from Judaea by
his father while Galba still lived, and alleged as a reason for his journey
the homage due to the Emperor, and his age, which now qualified him to
compete for office. But the vulgar, ever eager to invent, had spread the
report that he was sent for to be adopted. The advanced years and childless
condition of the Emperor furnished matter for such gossip, and the country
never can refrain from naming many persons until one be chosen. The report
gained the more credit from the genius of Titus himself, equal as it was
to the most exalted fortune, from the mingled beauty and majesty of his
countenance, from the prosperous fortunes of Vespasian, from the prophetic
responses of oracles, and even from accidental occurrences which, in the
general disposition to belief, were accepted as omens. At Corinth, the
capital of Achaia, he received positive information of the death of Galba,
and found men who spoke confidently of the revolt of Vitellius and of the
fact of war. In the anxiety of his mind, he sent a few of his friends,
and carefully surveyed his position from both points of view. He considered
that if he should proceed to Rome, he should get no thanks for a civility
intended for another, while his person would be a hostage in the hands
either of Vitellius or of Otho; that should he turn back, the conqueror
would certainly be offended, but with the issue of the struggle still doubtful,
and the father joining the party, the son would be excused; on the other
hand, if Vespasian should assume the direction of the state, men who had
to think of war would have to forget such causes of offence. 
[2.2] These and like thoughts made him
waver between hope and fear; but hope triumphed. Some supposed that he
retraced his steps for love of Queen Berenice, nor was his young heart
averse to her charms, but this affection occasioned no hindrance to action.
He passed, it is true, a youth enlivened by pleasure, and practised more
self-restraint in his own than in his father's reign. So, after coasting
Achaia and Asia, leaving the land on his left, he made for the islands
of Rhodes and Cyprus, and then by a bolder course for Syria. Here he conceived
a desire to visit and inspect the temple of the Paphian Venus, place of
celebrity both among natives and foreigners. It will not be a tedious digression
to record briefly the origin of the worship, the ceremonial of the temple,
and the form under which the goddess is adored, a form found in no other
place. 
[2.3] The founder of the temple, according
to old tradition, was king Aerias, though some represent this as the name
of the goddess herself. Later accounts tell us that the temple was consecrated
by Cinyras, and that the goddess herself after her birth from the sea was
wafted to this spot, but that the wisdom and craft of the diviners was
a foreign importation introduced by Tamiras of Cilicia; and that it was
agreed that the descendants of both families should preside over the worship.
Afterwards, that the royal family might not be without some superiority
over the foreign stock, the strangers relinquished the craft which they
had themselves introduced. The priest of the line of Cinyras is alone consulted.
The victims are such as each worshipper has vowed, but males are selected;
the surest prognostics are seen in the entrails of kids. It is forbidden
to pour blood on the altar; the place of sacrifice is served only with
prayers and pure flame, and though it stands in the open air, it is never
wet with rain. The image of the goddess does not bear the human shape;
it is a rounded mass rising like a cone from a broad base to a small circumference.
The meaning of this is doubtful. 
[2.4] Titus, after surveying the treasures,
the royal presents, and the other objects which the antiquarian tendencies
of the Greek arbitrarily connect with some uncertain past, first consulted
the oracle about his voyage. Receiving an answer that the way was open
and the sea propitious, he then, after sacrificing a number of victims,
asked some questions in ambiguous phrase concerning himself. Sostratus
(that was the name of the priest) seeing that the entrails presented an
uniformly favourable appearance, and that the goddess signified her favour
to some great enterprise, returned at the moment a brief and ordinary answer,
but afterwards soliciting a private interview, disclosed the future. His
spirits raised, Titus rejoined his father, and was received as a mighty
pledge of success by the wavering minds of the provincials and the troops.
Vespasian had all but completed the Jewish war, and only the siege of Jerusalem
now remained, an operation, the difficulty and arduousness of which was
due, rather to the character of its mountain citadel and the perverse obstinacy
of the national superstition, than to any sufficient means of enduring
extremities left to the besieged. As we have mentioned above, Vespasian
himself had three legions inured to war. Mucianus had four under his command
in his peaceful province. Emulation, however, and the glory won by the
neighbouring army had banished all tendency to sloth, and unbroken rest
and exemption from the hardships of war had given them a vigour equivalent
to the hardihood which the others had gained by their perils and their
toils. Each had auxiliary forces of infantry and cavalry, each had fleets
and tributary kings, and each, though their renown was of a different kind,
had a celebrated name. 
[2.5] Vespasian was an energetic soldier;
he could march at the head of his army, choose the place for his camp,
and bring by night and day his skill, or, if the occasion required, his
personal courage to oppose the foe. His food was such as chance offered;
his dress and appearance hardly distinguished him from the common soldier;
in short, but for his avarice, he was equal to the generals of old. Mucianus,
on the contrary, was eminent for his magnificence, for his wealth, and
for a greatness that transcended in all respects the condition of a subject;
readier of speech than the other, he thoroughly understood the arrangement
and direction of civil business. It would have been a rare combination
of princely qualities, if, with their respective faults removed, their
virtues only could have been united in one man. Mucianus was governor of
Syria, Vespasian of Judaea. In the administration of these neighbouring
provinces jealousy had produced discord between them, but on Nero's fall
they had dropped their animosities and associated their counsels. At first
they communicated through friends, till Titus, who was the great bond of
union between them, by representing their common interests had terminated
their mischievous feud. He was indeed a man formed both by nature and by
education to attract even such a character as that of Mucianus. The tribunes,
the centurions, and the common soldiers, were brought over to the cause
by appeals to their energy or their love of license, to their virtues or
to their vices, according to their different dispositions. 
[2.6] Long before the arrival of Titus,
both armies had taken the oath of allegiance to Otho. The news had come,
as is usual, with great speed, while there was much to delay the gigantic
undertaking of a civil war, for which the East after a long period of repose
was then for the first time preparing. In former times the mightiest civil
conflicts had been begun in Gaul or Italy with the resources of the West.
Pompey, Brutus, Cassius, and Antony, all of whom had been followed across
the sea by civil war, had met with a disastrous end, and the Emperors had
been oftener heard of than seen in Syria and Judaea. There had been no
mutiny among the legions, nothing indeed but some demonstrations against
the Parthians, attended with various success. In the last civil war, though
other provinces had been disturbed, peace had been here unshaken. Then
had followed a loyal adherence to Galba. But when it became notorious that
Otho and Vitellius, opposed in impious strife, were ready to make a spoil
of the Empire, the thought that others would engross the rewards of power,
while they would have nothing left for themselves but a compulsory submission,
made the soldiers murmur and take a survey of their own strength. There
were close at hand seven legions; there were Syria and Judaea, with a vast
number of auxiliaries. Then, without any interval of separation, there
was Egypt and its two legions, and on the other side Cappadocia, Pontus,
and all the garrisons along the frontier of Armenia. There was Asia Minor;
there were the other provinces, not without a military population, and
well furnished with money. There were all the islands of the Mediterranean.
And there was the sea itself, which during the interval of preparation
for war would be both a convenience and a protection. 
[2.7] The ardour of the troops was not
unknown to their generals; but it was judged advisable to wait for the
issue of the struggle which others were carrying on. The conquerors and
the conquered, it was said, never unite with a genuine good faith. It matters
not whether fortune make Otho or Vitellius to be the victor. Even great
generals grow insolent in prosperity; these men are quarrelsome, indolent,
and profligate, and their own faults will make war fatal to the one, and
success to the other. They therefore postponed the war until a more fitting
opportunity, and though Vespasian and Mucianus had but lately resolved
on concerted action, the others had done so long before. The worthiest
among them were moved by patriotism; many were wrought upon by the attractions
of plunder; some by their private embarrassments. And so, good and bad,
from different motives, but with equal zeal, were all eager for war. 
[2.8] About this time Achaia and Asia
Minor were terrified by a false report that Nero was at hand. Various rumours
were current about his death; and so there were many who pretended and
believed that he was still alive. The adventures and enterprises of the
other pretenders I shall relate in the regular course of my work. The pretender
in this case was a slave from Pontus, or, according to some accounts, a
freedman from Italy, a skilful harp-player and singer, accomplishments,
which, added to a resemblance in the face, gave a very deceptive plausibility
to his pretensions. After attaching to himself some deserters, needy vagrants
whom he bribed with great offers, he put to sea. Driven by stress of weather
to the island of Cythnus, he induced certain soldiers, who were on their
way from the East, to join him, and ordered others, who refused, to be
executed. He also robbed the traders and armed all the most able bodied
of the slaves. The centurion Sisenna, who was the bearer of the clasped
right hands, the usual emblems of friendship, from the armies of Syria
to the Praetorians, was assailed by him with various artifices, till he
left the island secretly, and, fearing actual violence, made his escape
with all haste. Thence the alarm spread far and wide, and many roused themselves
at the well-known name, eager for change, and detesting the present state
of things. The report was daily gaining credit when an accident put an
end to it. 
[2.9] Galba had entrusted the government
of Galatia and Pamphylia to Calpurnius Asprenas. Two triremes from the
fleet of Misenum were given him to pursue the adventurer: with these he
reached the island of Cythnus. Persons were found to summon the captains
in the name of Nero. The pretender himself, assuming a studied appearance
of sorrow, and appealing to their fidelity as old soldiers of his own,
besought them to land him in Egypt or Syria. The captains, perhaps wavering,
perhaps intending to deceive, declared that they must address their soldiers,
and that they would return when the minds of all had been prepared. Everything,
however, was faithfully reported to Asprenas, and at his bidding the ship
was boarded and taken, and the man, whoever he was, killed. The body, in
which the eyes, the hair, and the savage countenance, were remarkable features,
was conveyed to Asia, and thence to Rome. 
[2.10] In a state that was distracted
by strife, and that from frequent changes in its rulers trembled on the
verge between liberty and licence, even little matters were attended with
great excitement. Vibius Crispus, whose wealth, power, and ability, made
him rank among men of distinction, rather than among men of worth, demanded
that Annius Faustus, of the Equestrian order, who in the days of Nero had
practised the trade of the informer, should be brought to trial before
the Senate. The Senators indeed had recently, during the reign of Galba,
passed a resolution, that cognizance should be taken of the cases of the
informers. This decree was variously carried out, and, while retained as
law, was powerless or effectual, according as the person, who happened
to be accused, was influential or helpless. Besides the terror of the law,
Crispus had exerted his own power to the utmost to destroy the man who
had informed against his brother. He had prevailed upon a great part of
the Senate to demand that he should be consigned to destruction, undefended
and unheard. But, on the other hand, there were some with whom nothing
helped the accused person so much as the excessive power of the accuser.
They gave it as their opinion, that time ought to be allowed, that the
charges ought to be specified, that, odious and guilty as the man might
be, he yet ought to be heard, as precedent required. At first they carried
their point, and the trial was postponed for a few days, but before long
Faustus was condemned, but by no means with that unanimity on the part
of the people which his detestable character had deserved. Men remembered
that Crispus had followed the same profession with profit; nor was it the
penalty but the prosecutor that they disliked. 
[2.11] Meanwhile the campaign had opened
favourably for Otho, at whose bidding the armies of Dalmatia and Pannonia
had begun to move. These comprised four legions, from each of which two
thousand troops were sent on in advance. The 7th had been raised by Galba,
the 11th, 13th, and 14th were veteran soldiers, the 14th having particularly
distinguished itself by quelling the revolt in Britain. Nero had added
to their reputation by selecting them as his most effective troops. This
had made them long faithful to Nero, and kindled their zeal for Otho. But
their self-confidence induced a tardiness of movement proportionate to
their strength and solidity. The auxiliary infantry and cavalry moved in
advance of the main body of the legions. The capital itself contributed
no contemptible force, namely five Praetorian cohorts, some troops of cavalry,
and the first legion, and together with these, 2000 gladiators, a disreputable
kind of auxiliaries, but employed throughout the civil wars even by strict
disciplinarians. Annius Gallus was put at the head of this force, and was
sent on with Vestricius Spurinna to occupy the banks of the Padus, the
original plan of the campaign having fallen to the ground, now that Caecina,
who they had hoped might have been kept within the limits of Gaul, had
crossed the Alps. Otho himself was accompanied by some picked men of the
body-guard, with whom were the rest of the Praetorian cohorts, the veteran
troops from the Praetorian camp, and a vast number of the levies raised
from the fleet. No indolence or riot disgraced his march. He wore a cuirass
of iron, and was to be seen in front of the standards, on foot, rough and
negligent in dress, and utterly unlike what common report had pictured
him. 
[2.12] Fortune seemed to smile on his
efforts. Through his fleets, which commanded the sea, he held the greater
part of Italy, even as far as where the chain of the Maritime Alps begins.
The task of attempting the passage of this chain, and of advancing into
the Provincia Narbonensis, he had entrusted to three generals, Suedius
Clemens, Antonius Novellus, and Aemilius Pacensis. Pacensis, however, was
put in irons by his insubordinate troops, Antonius possessed no kind of
authority, and Clemens commanded only for popularity, and was as reckless
in transgressing the good order of military discipline as he was eager
to fight. One would not have thought that it was Italy, the fields, and
the habitations of their native country, that they were passing through.
They burnt, spoiled, and plundered, as if they were among the lands of
the foreigner and the cities of a hostile people, and all with the more
frightful effect as nowhere had there been made any provision against the
danger. The fields were full of rural wealth, the houses stood with open
doors; and the owners, as with their wives and children they came forth
to meet the army, found themselves surrounded, in the midst of the security
of peace, with all the horrors of war. Marius Maturus was then governing
as procurator the province of the Maritime Alps. Raising the population,
in which is no lack of able-bodied men, he resolved to drive back the Othonianists
from the borders of his province; but the mountaineers were cut down and
broken by the first charge, as might be expected of men who had been hastily
collected, who were not familiar with camps or with regular command, who
saw no glory in victory, no infamy in flight. 
[2.13] Exasperated by this conflict,
the troops of Otho vented their rage on the town of Albintemilium. In the
field indeed they had secured no plunder; their rustic adversaries were
poor, and their arms worthless; nor could they be taken prisoners, for
they were swift of foot, and knew the country well. But the rapacity of
the troops glutted itself in the ruin of an innocent population. The horror
of these acts was aggravated by a noble display of fortitude in a Ligurian
woman; she had concealed her son, and when the soldiers, who believed that
some money had been hidden with him, questioned her with torture as to
where she was hiding him, she pointed to her bosom, and replied, "It
is here that he is concealed"; nor could any subsequent threats or
even death itself make her falter in this courageous and noble answer.

[2.14] Messengers now came in haste
and alarm to inform Fabius Valens, how Otho's fleet was threatening the
province of Gallia Narbonensis, which had sworn allegiance to Vitellius.
Envoys from the colonies were already on the spot praying for aid. He despatched
two cohorts of Tungrian infantry, four squadrons of horse, and all the
cavalry of the Treviri under the command of Julius Classicus. Part of these
troops were retained for the defence of the colony of Forum Julii, for
it was feared, that if the whole army were sent by the route through the
interior, the enemy's fleet might make a rapid movement on the unprotected
coast. Twelve squadrons of cavalry and some picked infantry advanced against
the enemy; they were reinforced by a cohort of Ligurians, an auxiliary
local force of long standing, and five hundred Pannonians, not yet regularly
enrolled. The conflict commenced without delay, the enemy's line of battle
being so arranged, that part of the levies from the fleet, who had a number
of rustics among their ranks, were posted on the slope of the hills which
border on the coast, the Praetorians fully occupying the level ground between
the hills and the shore, while on the sea was the fleet, moored to the
land and ready for action, drawn up in line so as to present a formidable
front. The Vitellianists whose infantry was inferior, but who were strong
in cavalry, stationed the mountaineers on the neighbouring heights, and
their infantry in close ranks behind the cavalry. The squadrons of the
Treveri charged the enemy incautiously, and found themselves encountered
in front by the veteran troops, while on the flanks they were also annoyed
by showers of stones from the rustic band, who were skilful throwers, and
who, mixed up as they were among the regular soldiers, whether cowardly
or brave, were all equally bold in the moment of victory. The general consternation
of the Vitellianists was increased by a new alarm as the fleet attacked
the rear of the combatants. By this movement they were hemmed in on all
sides, and the whole force would have perished, had not the shades of night
checked the advance of the victorious army, and covered the retreat of
the vanquished. 
[2.15] The Vitellianists, however, though
beaten, did not remain inactive. They brought up reinforcements and attacked
the enemy, who felt themselves secure, and whose vigilance was relaxed
by success. The sentinels were cut down, the camp stormed, and the panic
reached the ships, till, as the alarm gradually subsided, they again assumed
the offensive under the protection of some neighbouring heights which they
had occupied. A terrible slaughter ensued, and the prefects of the Tungrian
cohorts, after having long maintained their line unbroken, fell beneath
a shower of missiles. The Othonianists, however, did not achieve a bloodless
victory, as the enemy's cavalry wheeled round, and cut off some who had
imprudently prolonged the pursuit. And then, as if a sort of armistice
had been concluded to provide against any sudden panic that the cavalry
of the one party or the fleet of the other might cause, the Vitellianists
retreated to Antipolis, a town of Gallia Narbonensis, the Othonianists
to Albigaunum, in Upper Liguria. 
[2.16] Corsica, Sardinia, and the other
islands of the neighbouring seas, were retained in the interests of Otho
by the fame of these naval successes. Corsica, however, all but suffered
fatal injury from the rash proceedings of Decumus Pacarius, the procurator,
proceedings which in so gigantic a war could contribute nothing to the
general result, and which only brought destruction upon their author. In
his hatred of Otho he resolved to support Vitellius with the whole strength
of Corsica, an insignificant assistance even had the design succeeded.
He collected the chief men of the island, and explained his plans. Claudius
Pyrrhicus, captain of the Liburnian ships stationed in the place, and Quintius
Certus, a Roman knight, who ventured to offer opposition, he ordered to
execution. All who were present were terrified at their death, and, with
the ignorant populace, which ever blindly shares in the fears of others,
took the oath of allegiance to Vitellius. But when Pacarius began to enlist
troops, and to weary with military duties an undisciplined population,
disgusted with the unusual toil, they began to reflect upon their own weakness.
"The country which we inhabit," they said to themselves, "is
an island: Germany and its mighty legions are far from us, and we know
that even countries protected by infantry and cavalry have been plundered
and ravaged by the fleet." Their feelings underwent a sudden change;
they did not, however, resort to open violence, but chose an opportunity
for a treacherous attack. When the persons who usually surrounded Pacarius
had left him, and he was naked and helpless in the bath, they slew him.
His associates were slaughtered with him. The perpetrators of the deed
carried the heads of the slain to Otho, as being the heads of public enemies;
but, lost among the crowd of greater criminals, in the vast confusion of
events, they were neither rewarded by Otho nor punished by Vitellius. 
[2.17] Silius' Horse had now, as I have
already related, opened the way into Italy, and transferred the war across
the borders. No one entertained any attachment to Otho, yet it was not
because they preferred Vitellius: long years of peace had subdued them
to any kind of servitude, had made them ready to submit to the first comer
and careless about the better cause. The wealthiest district of Italy,
the broad plains and cities which lie between the Padus and the Alps, was
now held by the troops of Vitellius; for by this time the infantry sent
on in advance by Caecina had also arrived. A cohort of Pannonians had been
taken prisoners at Cremona, a hundred cavalry, and a thousand of the levies
from the fleet intercepted between Placentia and Ticinum. Elated by these
successes the troops of Vitellius would no longer be restrained by the
boundaries of the river's bank. The very sight of the Padus excited the
men from Batavia and the Transrhenane provinces. Crossing the stream by
a sudden movement, they advanced on Placentia, and seizing some reconnoiterers
so terrified the rest, that, deceived by their alarm, they announced that
the whole army of Caecina was at hand. 
[2.18] Spurinna, who now held Placentia,
was sure that Caecina had not yet arrived, and that, even were he approaching,
he ought to keep his men within their fortifications, and not confront
a veteran army with three Praetorian cohorts, a thousand veterans, and
a handful of cavalry. But the undisciplined and inexperienced soldiery
seized their standards and colours, and rushed to the attack, brandishing
their weapons in the face of their general when he sought to restrain them,
and spurning from them the tribunes and centurions, and even crying out
that Otho was betrayed and that Caecina had come by invitation. Spurinna
associated himself with the rash movement which others had originated,
at first acting under compulsion, but afterwards pretending to consent,
in the hope that his counsels might have more influence should the mutinous
spirit abate. 
[2.19] When the Padus was in sight and
night began to fall they judged it expedient to entrench a camp. The labour,
new as it was to the soldiery of the capital, broke their spirits. All
the oldest among them began to inveigh against their own credulity, and
to point out the difficulty and danger of their position, if on those open
plains Caecina and his army were to surround their scanty forces. By this
time more temperate language was heard throughout the camp, and the tribunes
and centurions, mixing with the troops, suggested commendations of the
prudence of their general in selecting for the rallying point and basis
of his operations a colony rich in military strength and resources. Finally,
Spurinna himself, not so much reproaching them with their error as exposing
it by his arguments, conducted them all back to Placentia, except some
scouts whom he left, in a less turbulent temper and more amenable to command.
The walls were strengthened, battlements were added, and the towers were
raised in height. It was not only of the implements of war that provision
and preparation were made, but of the spirit of subordination and the love
of obedience. This was all that was wanting to the party, for they had
no reason to be dissatisfied with their courage. 
[2.20] Caecina, who seemed to have left
his cruelty and profligacy on the other side of the Alps, advanced through
Italy with his army under excellent discipline. The towns and colonies,
however, found indications of a haughty spirit in the general's dress,
when they saw the cloak of various colours, and the trews, a garment of
foreign fashion, clothed in which he was wont to speak to their toga-clad
citizens. And they resented, as if with a sense of personal wrong, the
conduct of his wife Salonina, though it injured no one that she presented
a conspicuous figure as she rode through their towns on horseback in a
purple habit. They were acting on the instincts of human nature, which
prompt men to scrutinize with keen eyes the recent elevation of their fellows,
and to demand a temperate use of prosperity from none more rigorously than
from those whom they have seen on a level with themselves. Caecina, after
crossing the Padus, sought to tamper with the loyalty of the Othonianists
at a conference in which he held out hopes of reward, and he was himself
assailed with the same arts. After the specious but meaningless names of
peace and concord had been thus bandied to and fro, Caecina turned all
his thoughts and plans on the capture of Placentia, making a formidable
show of preparation, as he knew that according to the success of his opening
operations would be the subsequent prestige of his arms. 
[2.21] The first day, however, was spent
in a furious onset rather than in the skilful approaches of a veteran army.
Exposed and reckless, the troops came close under the walls, stupefied
by excess in food and wine. In this struggle the amphitheatre, a most beautiful
building, situated outside the walls, was burnt to the ground, possibly
set on fire by the assailants, while they showered brands, fireballs, and
ignited missiles, on the besieged, possibly by the besieged themselves,
while they discharged incessant volleys in return. The populace of the
town, always inclined to be suspicious, believed that combustibles had
been purposely introduced into the building by certain persons from the
neighbouring colonies, who viewed it with envious and jealous eyes, because
there was not in Italy another building so capacious. Whatever the cause
of the accident, it was thought of but little moment as long as more terrible
disasters were apprehended; but as soon as they again felt secure, they
lamented it as though they could not have endured a heavier calamity. In
the end Caecina was repulsed with great slaughter among his troops, and
the night was spent in the preparation of siege-works. The Vitellianists
constructed mantlets, hurdles, and sheds, for undermining the walls and
screening the assailants; the Othonianists busied themselves in preparing
stakes and huge masses of stone and of lead and brass, with which to break
and overwhelm the hostile ranks. The shame of failure, the hope of renown,
wrought on both armies; both were appealed to by different arguments; on
the one side they extolled the strength of the legions and of the army
of Germany; on the other, the distinctions of the soldiery of the capital
and the Praetorian cohorts; the one reviled their foes as slothful and
indolent soldiers, demoralized by the circus and the theatres; the others
retorted with the names of foreigner and barbarian. At the same time they
lauded or vituperated Otho and Vitellius, but found indeed a more fruitful
source of mutual provocation in invective than in praise. 
[2.22] Almost before dawn of day the
walls were crowded with combatants, and the plains glittered with masses
of armed men. The close array of the legions, and the skirmishing parties
of auxiliaries assailed with showers of arrows and stones the loftier parts
of the walls, attacking them at close quarters where they were undefended,
or old and decayed. The Othonianists, who could take a more deliberate
and certain aim, poured down their javelins on the German cohorts as they
recklessly advanced to the attack with fierce war-cries, brandishing their
shields above their shoulders after the manner of their country, and leaving
their bodies unprotected. The soldiers of the legions, working under cover
of mantlets and hurdles, undermined the walls, threw up earth-works, and
endeavoured to burst open the gates. The Praetorians opposed them by rolling
down with a tremendous crash ponderous masses of rock, placed for the purpose.
Beneath these many of the assailants were buried, and many, as the slaughter
increased with the confusion, and the attack from the walls became fiercer,
retreated wounded, fainting, and mangled, with serious damage to the prestige
of the party. Caecina, ashamed of the assault on which he had so rashly
ventured, and unwilling, ridiculed and baffled as he was, to remain in
the same position, again crossed the Padus, and resolved on marching to
Cremona. As he was going, Turullius Cerialis with a great number of the
levies from the fleet, and Julius Briganticus with a few troopers, gave
themselves up to him. Julius commanded a squadron of horse; he was a Batavian.
Turullius was a centurion of the first rank, not unfriendly to Caecina,
as he had commanded a company in Germany. 
[2.23] Spurinna, on discovering the
enemy's route, informed Annius Gallus by letter of the successful defence
of Placentia, of what had happened, and of what Caecina intended to do.
Gallus was then bringing up the first legion to the relief of Placentia;
he hardly dared trust so few cohorts, fearing that they could not sustain
a prolonged siege or the formidable attack of the German army. On hearing
that Caecina had been repulsed, and was making his way to Cremona, though
the legion could hardly be restrained, and in its eagerness for action,
even went to the length of open mutiny, he halted at Bedriacum. This is
a village situated between Verona and Cremona, and has now acquired an
ill-omened celebrity by two great days of disaster to Rome. About the same
time Martius Macer fought a successful battle not far from Cremona. Martius,
who was a man of energy, conveyed his gladiators in boats across the Padus,
and suddenly threw them upon the opposite bank. The Vitellianist auxiliaries
on the spot were routed; those who made a stand were cut to pieces, the
rest directing their flight to Cremona. But the impetuosity of the victors
was checked; for it was feared that the enemy might be strengthened by
reinforcements, and change the fortune of the day. This policy excited
the suspicions of the Othonianists, who put a sinister construction on
all the acts of their generals. Vying with each other in an insolence of
language proportioned to their cowardice of heart, they assailed with various
accusations Annius Gallus, Suetonius Paullinus, and Marius Celsus. The
murderers of Galba were the most ardent promoters of mutiny and discord.
Frenzied with fear and guilt, they sought to plunge everything into confusion,
resorting, now to openly seditious language, now to secret letters to Otho;
and he, ever ready to believe the meanest of men and suspicious of the
good, irresolute in prosperity, but rising higher under reverses, was in
perpetual alarm. The end of it was that he sent for his brother Titianus,
and intrusted him with the direction of the campaign. 
[2.24] Meanwhile, brilliant successes
were gained under the command of Celsus and Paullinus. Caecina was greatly
annoyed by the fruitlessness of all his undertakings, and by the waning
reputation of his army. He had been repulsed from Placentia; his auxiliaries
had been recently cut up, and even when the skirmishers had met in a series
of actions, frequent indeed, but not worth relating, he had been worsted;
and now that Valens was coming up, fearful that all the distinctions of
the campaign would centre in that general, he made a hasty attempt to retrieve
his credit, but with more impetuosity than prudence. Twelve miles from
Cremona (at a place called the Castors) he posted some of the bravest of
his auxiliaries, concealed in the woods that there overhang the road. The
cavalry were ordered to move forward, and, after provoking a battle, voluntarily
to retreat, and draw on the enemy in hasty pursuit, till the ambuscade
could make a simultaneous attack. The scheme was betrayed to the Othonianist
generals, and Paullinus assumed the command of the infantry, Celsus of
the cavalry. The veterans of the 13th legion, four cohorts of auxiliaries,
and 500 cavalry, were drawn up on the left side of the road; the raised
causeway was occupied by three Praetorian cohorts, ranged in deep columns;
on the right front stood the first legion with two cohorts of auxiliaries
and 500 cavalry. Besides these, a thousand cavalry, belonging to the Praetorian
guard and to the auxiliaries, were brought up to complete a victory or
to retrieve a repulse. 
[2.25] Before the hostile lines engaged,
the Vitellianists began to retreat, but Celsus, aware of the stratagem,
kept his men back. The Vitellianists rashly left their position, and seeing
Celsus gradually give way, followed too far in pursuit, and themselves
fell into an ambuscade. The auxiliaries assailed them on either flank,
the legions were opposed to them in front, and the cavalry, by a sudden
movement, had surrounded their rear. Suetonius Paullinus did not at once
give the infantry the signal to engage. He was a man naturally tardy in
action, and one who preferred a cautious and scientific plan of operations
to any success which was the result of accident. He ordered the trenches
to be filled up, the plain to be cleared, and the line to be extended,
holding that it would be time enough to begin his victory when he had provided
against being vanquished. This delay gave the Vitellianists time to retreat
into some vineyards, which were obstructed by the interlacing layers of
the vines, and close to which was a small wood. From this place they again
ventured to emerge, slaughtering the foremost of the Praetorian cavalry.
King Epiphanes was wounded, while he was zealously cheering on the troops
for Otho. 
[2.26] Then the Othonianist infantry
charged. The enemy's line was completely crushed, and the reinforcements
who were coming up to their aid were also put to flight. Caecina indeed
had not brought up his cohorts in a body, but one by one; as this was done
during the battle, it increased the general confusion, because the troops
who were thus divided, not being strong at any one point, were borne away
by the panic of the fugitives. Besides this, a mutiny broke out in the
camp because the whole army was not led into action. Julius Gratus, prefect
of the camp, was put in irons, on a suspicion of a treacherous understanding
with his brother who was serving with Otho's army, at the very time that
the Othonianists had done the same thing and on the same grounds to that
brother Julius Fronto, a tribune. In fact such was the panic everywhere,
among the fugitives and among the troops coming up, in the lines and in
front of the entrenchments, that it was very commonly said on both sides,
that Caecina and his whole army might have been destroyed, had not Suetonius
Paullinus given the signal of recall. Paullinus alleged that he feared
the effects of so much additional toil and so long a march, apprehending
that the Vitellianists might issue fresh from their camp, and attack his
wearied troops, who, once thrown into confusion, would have no reserves
to fall back upon. A few approved the general's policy, but it was unfavourably
canvassed by the army at large. 
[2.27] The effect of this disaster on
the Vitellianists was not so much to drive them to fear as to draw them
to obedience. Nor was this the case only among the troops of Caecina, who
indeed laid all the blame upon his soldiers, more ready, as he said, for
mutiny than for battle. The forces also of Fabius Valens, who had now reached
Ticinum, laid aside their contempt for the enemy, and anxious to retrieve
their credit began to yield a more respectful and uniform obedience to
their general. A serious mutiny, however, had raged among them, of which,
as it was not convenient to interrupt the orderly narrative of Caecina's
operations, I shall take up the history at an earlier period. I have already
described how the Batavian cohorts who separated from the 14th legion during
the Neronian war, hearing on their way to Britain of the rising of Vitellius,
joined Fabius Valens in the country of the Lingones. They behaved themselves
insolently, boasting, as they visited the quarters of the several legions,
that they had mastered the men of the 14th, that they had taken Italy from
Nero, that the whole destiny of the war lay in their hands. Such language
was insulting to the soldiers, and offensive to the general. The discipline
of the army was relaxed by the brawls and quarrels which ensued. At last
Valens began to suspect that insolence would end in actual treachery. 
[2.28] When, therefore, intelligence
reached him that the cavalry of the Treveri and the Tungrian infantry had
been defeated by Otho's fleet, and that Gallia Narbonensis was blockaded,
anxious at once to protect a friendly population, and, like a skilful soldier,
to separate cohorts so turbulent and, while they remained united, so inconveniently
strong, he directed a detachment of the Batavians to proceed to the relief
of the province. This having been heard and become generally known, the
allies were discontented and the legions murmured. "We are being deprived,"
they said, "of the help of our bravest men. Those veteran troops victorious
in so many campaigns, now that the enemy is in sight, are withdrawn, so
to speak, from the very field of battle. If indeed a province be of more
importance than the capital and the safety of the Empire, let us all follow
them thither, but if the reality, the support, the mainstay of success,
centre in Italy, you must not tear, as it were, from a body its very strongest
limbs." 
[2.29] In the midst of these fierce
exclamations, Valens, sending his lictors into the crowd, attempted to
quell the mutiny. On this they attacked the general himself, hurled stones
at him, and, when he fled, pursued him. Crying out that he was concealing
the spoil of Gaul, the gold of the men of Vienna, the hire of their own
toils, they ransacked his baggage, and probed with javelins and lances
the walls of the general's tent and the very ground beneath. Valens, disguised
in the garb of a slave, found concealment with a subaltern officer of cavalry.
After this, Alfenius Varus, prefect of the camp, seeing that the mutiny
was gradually subsiding, promoted the reaction by the following device.
He forbade the centurions to visit the sentinels, and discontinued the
trumpet calls by which the troops are summoned to their usual military
duties. Thereupon all stood paralysed, and gazed at each other in amazement,
panic-stricken by the very fact that there was no one to direct them. By
their silence, by their submission, finally by their tears and entreaties,
they craved forgiveness. But when Valens, thus unexpectedly preserved,
came forward in sad plight, shedding tears, they were moved to joy, to
pity, even to affection. Their revulsion to delight was just that of a
mob, always extreme in either emotion. They greeted him with praises and
congratulations, and surrounding him with the eagles and standards, carried
him to the tribunal. With a politic prudence he refrained from demanding
capital punishment in any case; yet, fearing that he might lay himself
more open to suspicion by concealment of his feelings, he censured a few
persons, well aware that in civil wars the soldiers have more license than
the generals. 
[2.30] While they were fortifying a
camp at Ticinum, the news of Caecina's defeat reached them, and the mutiny
nearly broke out afresh from an impression that underhand dealing and delay
on the part of Valens had kept them away from the battle. They refused
all rest; they would not wait for their general; they advanced in front
of the standards, and hurried on the standard-bearers. After a rapid march
they joined Caecina. The character of Valens did not stand well with Caecina's
army. They complained that, though so much weaker in numbers, they had
been exposed to the whole force of the enemy, thus at once excusing themselves,
and extolling, in the implied flattery, the strength of the new arrivals,
who might, they feared, despise them as beaten and spiritless soldiers.
Though Valens had the stronger army, nearly double the number of legions
and auxiliaries, yet the partialities of the soldiers inclined to Caecina,
not only from the geniality of heart, which he was thought more ready to
display, but even from his vigorous age, his commanding person, and a certain
superficial attractiveness which he possessed. The result was a jealousy
between the two generals. Caecina ridiculed his colleague as a man of foul
and infamous character; Valens retorted with charges of emptiness and vanity.
But concealing their enmity, they devoted themselves to their common interest,
and in frequent letters, without any thought of pardon, heaped all manner
of charges upon Otho, while the Othonianist generals, though they had the
most abundant materials for invective against Vitellius, refrained from
employing them. 
[2.31] In fact, before the death of
these two men (and it was by his death that Otho gained high renown, as
Vitellius incurred by his the foulest infamy), Vitellius with his indolent
luxury was less dreaded than Otho with his ardent passions. The murder
of Galba had made the one terrible and odious, while no one reckoned against
the other the guilt of having begun the war. Vitellius with his sensuality
and gluttony was his own enemy; Otho, with his profligacy, his cruelty,
and his recklessness, was held to be more dangerous to the Commonwealth.
When Caecina and Valens had united their forces, the Vitellianists had
no longer any reason to delay giving battle with their whole strength.
Otho deliberated as to whether protracting the war or risking an engagement
were the better course. Then Suetonius Paullinus, thinking that it befitted
his reputation, which was such that no one at that period was looked upon
as a more skilful soldier, to give an opinion on the whole conduct of the
war, contended that impatience would benefit the enemy, while delay would
serve their own cause. 
[2.32] "The entire army of Vitellius,"
he said, "has already arrived. Nor have they much strength in their
rear, since Gaul is ready to rise, and to abandon the banks of the Rhine,
when such hostile tribes are ready to burst in, would not answer his purpose.
A hostile people and an intervening sea keep from him the army of Britain;
Spain is not over full of troops; Gallia Narbonensis has been cowed by
the attack of our ships and by a defeat; Italy beyond the Padus is shut
in by the Alps, cannot be relieved from the sea, and has been exhausted
by the passage of his army. For that army there is no where any corn, and
without supplies an army cannot be kept together. Then the Germans, the
most formidable part of the enemy's forces, should the war be protracted
into the summer, will sink with enfeebled frames under the change of country
and climate. Many a war, formidable in its first impetuosity, has passed
into nothing through the weariness of delay. We, on the other hand, have
on all sides abundant resources and loyal adherents. We have Pannonia,
Moesia, Dalmatia, the East with its armies yet intact, we have Italy and
Rome, the capital of the Empire, the Senate, and the people, names that
never lose their splendour, though they may sometimes be eclipsed. We have
the wealth of the State and of private individuals. We have a vast supply
of money, which in a civil war is a mightier weapon than the sword. Our
soldiers are inured to the climate of Italy or to yet greater heat. We
have the river Padus on our front, and cities strongly garrisoned and fortified,
none of which will surrender to the enemy, as the defence of Placentia
has proved. Let Otho therefore protract the war. In a few days the 14th
legion, itself highly renowned, will arrive with the troops from Moesia.
He may then again consider the question, and should a battle be resolved
on, we shall fight with increased strength." 
[2.33] Marius Celsus acquiesced in the
opinion of Paullinus; and Annius Gallus, who a few days before had been
seriously injured by the fall of his horse, was reported to agree by those
who had been sent to ascertain his opinion. Otho was inclined to risk a
decisive battle. His brother Titianus, and Proculus, the prefect of the
Praetorian Guard, ignorant and therefore impatient, declared that fortune,
the Gods, and the genius of Otho, were with their counsels, and would be
with their enterprises. That no one might dare to oppose their views, they
had taken refuge in flattery. It having been resolved to give battle, it
became a question whether it would be better for the Emperor to be present
in person, or to withdraw. Paullinus and Celsus no longer opposed, for
they would not seem to put the Emperor in the way of peril, and these same
men who suggested the baser policy prevailed on him to retire to Brixellum,
and thus secure from the hazards of the field, to reserve himself for the
administration of empire. That day first gave the death-blow to the party
of Otho. Not only did a strong detachment of the Praetorian cohorts, of
the bodyguard, and of the cavalry, depart with him, but the spirit of those
who remained was broken, for the men suspected their generals, and Otho,
who alone had the confidence of the soldiers, while he himself trusted
in none but them, had left the generals' authority on a doubtful footing.

[2.34] Nothing of this escaped the Vitellianists,
for, as is usual in civil wars, there were many deserters, and the spies,
while busy in inquiring into the plans of the enemy, failed to conceal
their own. Meanwhile Caecina and Valens remained quiet, and watched intently
for the moment when the enemy in his blindness should rush upon destruction,
and found the usual substitute for wisdom in waiting for the folly of others.
They began to form a bridge, making a feint of crossing the Padus, in the
face of an opposing force of gladiators; they wished also to keep their
own soldiers from passing their unoccupied time in idleness. Boats were
ranged at equal distances from each other, connected at both ends by strong
beams, and with their heads turned against the current, while anchors were
thrown out above to keep the bridge firm. The cables, however, instead
of being taut, hung loose in the water, in order that as the stream rose
the vessels might rise without their arrangement being disturbed. On the
end of the bridge was placed a turret; it was built out on the last boat,
and from it engines and machines might be worked to repel the enemy. The
soldiers of Otho also raised a turret on the opposite bank, and hurled
from it stones and flaming missiles. 
[2.35] In the middle of the river was
an island. While the gladiators were making their way to it in boats, the
Germans swam and outstripped them. A considerable number, as it chanced,
had effected the passage, when Macer, having manned some light gallies,
attacked them with the most active of his gladiators. But the gladiator
has not in battle the firmness of the regular soldier, and now, as they
stood on rocking vessels, they could not direct their blows like men who
had a sure footing on land. As the men in their alarm made confused movements,
rowers and combatants were mingled together in disorder; upon this, the
Germans themselves leapt into the shallows, laid hold of the boats, climbed
over the gunwales, or sank them with their hands. All this passed in the
sight of both armies, and the more it delighted the Vitellianists, the
more vehemently did the Othonianists curse the cause and author of the
disaster. 
[2.36] The conflict was terminated by
the flight of the vanquished, who carried off what boats were left. Then
they cried out for the execution of Macer. He had been wounded by a javelin
thrown from a distance, and the soldiers had made a rush upon him with
drawn swords, when he was saved by the interference of the tribunes and
centurions. Soon after Vestricius Spurinna, having received orders to that
effect from Otho, joined with his cohorts, leaving but a moderate force
in garrison at Placentia. After this Otho sent Flavius Sabinus, consul
elect, to take the command of the troops which had been under Macer; the
soldiers were delighted by this change of generals, while the generals
were led by these continual outbreaks to regard with disgust so hateful
a service. 
[2.37] I find it stated by some authors
that either the dread of or the disgust felt for both Emperors, whose wickedness
and infamy were coming out every day into more open notoriety, made the
two armies hesitate whether they should not cease their strife, and either
themselves consult together, or allow the Senate to choose an Emperor;
and that, for this reason, Otho's generals recommended a certain measure
of delay, Paullinus especially entertaining hopes for himself, on the ground
that he was the senior among the men of consular rank, that he was well
known as a soldier, and had attained great distinction and fame by his
campaigns in Britain. Though I would allow that there were some few who
in their secret wishes prayed for peace in the stead of disorder, for a
worthy and blameless Emperor in the room of men utterly worthless and wicked,
yet I cannot suppose that Paullinus, wise as he was, could have hoped in
an age thoroughly depraved to find such moderation in the common herd,
as that men, who in their passion for war had trampled peace under foot,
should now in their affection for peace renounce the charms of war; nor
can I think that armies differing in language and in character, could have
united in such an agreement; or that lieutenants and generals, who were
for the most part burdened by the consciousness of profligacy, of poverty,
and of crime, could have endured any Emperor who was not himself stained
by vice, as well as bound by obligation to themselves. 
[2.38] That old passion for power which
has been ever innate in man increased and broke out as the Empire grew
in greatness. In a state of moderate dimensions equality was easily preserved;
but when the world had been subdued, when all rival kings and cities had
been destroyed, and men had leisure to covet wealth which they might enjoy
in security, the early conflicts between the patricians and the people
were kindled into flame. At one time the tribunes were factious, at another
the consuls had unconstitutional power; it was in the capital and the forum
that we first essayed civil wars. Then rose C. Marius, sprung from the
very dregs of the populace, and L. Sulla, the most ruthless of the patricians,
who perverted into absolute dominion the liberty which had yielded to their
arms. After them came Cn. Pompeius, with a character more disguised but
no way better. Henceforth men's sole object was supreme power. Legions
formed of Roman citizens did not lay down their arms at Pharsalia and Philippi,
much less were the armies of Otho and Vitellius likely of their own accord
to abandon their strife. They were driven into civil war by the same wrath
from heaven, the same madness among men, the same incentives to crime.
That these wars were terminated by what we may call single blows, was owing
to want of energy in the chiefs. But these reflections on the character
of ancient and modern times have carried me too far from my subject. I
now return to the course of events. 
[2.39] Otho having started for Brixellum,
the honours of supreme command devolved on his brother Titianus, while
the real power and control were in the hands of the prefect Proculus. Celsus
and Paullinus, as no one made any use of their skill, did but screen with
their idle title of general the blunders of others. The tribunes and centurions
were perplexed to see that better men were despised, and that the most
worthless carried the day. The common soldiers were full of eagerness,
but liked to criticise rather than to obey the orders of their officers.
It was resolved to move the camp forward to the fourth milestone from Bedriacum,
but it was done so unskilfully, that though it was spring, and there were
so many rivers in the neighbourhood, the troops were distressed for want
of water. Then the subject of giving battle was discussed, Otho in his
despatches ever urging them to make haste, and the soldiers demanding that
the Emperor should be present at the conflict; many begged that the troops
quartered beyond the Padus should be brought up. It is not so easy to determine
what was best to be done, as it is to be sure that what was done was the
very worst. 
[2.40] They started for a campaign rather
than for a battle, making for the confluence of the Padus and Addua, a
distance of sixteen miles from their position. Celsus and Paullinus remonstrated
against exposing troops wearied with a march and encumbered with baggage
to any enemy, who, being himself ready for action and having marched barely
four miles, would not fail to attack them, either when they were in the
confusion of an advance, or when they were dispersed and busy with the
work of entrenchment. Titianus and Proculus, overcome in argument, fell
back on the Imperial authority. It was true that a Numidian had arrived
at full gallop with an angry message from Otho, in which the Emperor, sick
of delay and impatient of suspense, sharply rebuked the inactivity of the
generals, and commanded that matters should be brought to an issue. 
[2.41] The same day, while Caecina was
engaged on the construction of a bridge, two tribunes of the Praetorian
Guard came to him and begged an interview. He was on the point of hearing
their proposals and sending back his own, when the scouts arrived at headlong
speed with the news that the enemy were close at hand. The address of the
tribunes was thus abruptly terminated. Thus it remained uncertain whether
deception, or treason, or some honourable arrangement, had been in their
thoughts. Caecina dismissed the tribunes and rode back to the camp. There
he found that Fabius Valens had given the signal for battle, and that the
troops were under arms. While the legions were casting lots for the order
of march, the cavalry charged, and, strange to say, were kept only by the
courage of the Italian legion from being driven back on the entrenchments
by an inferior force of Othonianists. These men, at the sword's point,
compelled the beaten squadron to wheel round and resume the conflict. The
line of the Vitellianists was formed without hurry, for, though the enemy
was close at hand, the sight of their arms was intercepted by the thick
brushwood. In Otho's army the generals were full of fear, and the soldiers
hated their officers; the baggage-wagons and the camp-followers were mingled
with the troops; and as there were steep ditches on both sides the road,
it would have been found too narrow even for an undisturbed advance. Some
were gathering round their standards; others were seeking them; everywhere
was heard the confused shouting of men who were joining the ranks, or calling
to their comrades, and each, as he was prompted by courage or by cowardice,
rushed on to the front, or slunk back to the rear. 
[2.42] From the consternation of panic
their feelings passed under the influence of a groundless joy into languid
indifference, some persons spreading the lie that Vitellius' army had revolted.
Whether this rumour was circulated by the spies of Vitellius, or originated
in treachery or in accident among the partisans of Otho, has never been
clearly ascertained. Forgetting their warlike ardour, the Othonianists
at once greeted the foe; as they were answered by an angry murmur, they
caused apprehensions of treachery in many of their own side, who did not
know what the greeting meant. Then the enemy's line charged with its ranks
unbroken, in strength and in numbers superior; the Othonianists, scattered
and weary as they were, met the attack with spirit. The ground was so entangled
with trees and vineyards that the battle assumed many forms. They met in
close and in distant conflict, in line and in column. On the raised road
they stood foot to foot, they pushed with their bodies and their shields,
and ceasing to throw their javelins, they struck through helmets and breastplates
with swords and battle-axes. Recognising each other and distinctly seen
by the rest of the combatants, they were fighting to decide the whole issue
of the war. 
[2.43] In an open plain between the
Padus and the road, two legions happened to meet. On the side of Vitellius
was the 21st, called the Rapax, a corps of old and distinguished renown.
On that of Otho was the 1st, called Adjutrix, which had never before been
brought into the field, but was high-spirited, and eager to gain its first
triumph. The men of the 1st, overthrowing the foremost ranks of the 21st,
carried off the eagle. The 21st, infuriated by this loss, not only repulsed
the 1st, and slew the legate, Orfidius Benignus, but captured many colours
and standards from the enemy. In another quarter the 13th legion was put
to flight by a charge of the 5th. The 14th was surrounded by a superior
force. Otho's generals had long since fled and Caecina and Valens strengthened
their army with the reserves. New reinforcements were supplied by Varus
Alfenius with his Batavians. They had routed the band of gladiators, which
had been ferried across the river, and which had been cut to pieces by
the opposing cohorts while they were actually in the water. Thus flushed
with victory, they charged the flank of the enemy. 
[2.44] The centre of their line had
been penetrated, and the Othonianists fled on all sides in the direction
of Bedriacum. The distance was very great, and the roads were blocked up
with heaps of corpses; thus the slaughter was the greater, for captives
taken in civil war can be turned to no profit. Suetonius Paullinus and
Licinius Proculus, taking different roads, avoided the camp. Vedius Aquila,
legate of the 13th legion, in the blindness of fear, fell in the way of
the furious soldiery. Late in the day he entered the entrenchments, and
found himself the centre of a mob of clamorous and mutinous fugitives.
They did not refrain from abuse or actual violence; they reviled him as
a deserter and traitor, not having any specific charge against him, but
all, after the fashion of the mob, imputing to him their own crimes. Titianus
and Celsus were favoured by the darkness. By that time the sentries had
been posted, and the soldiers reduced to order. Annius Gallus had prevailed
upon them by his prayers, his advice, and his personal influence, not to
aggravate the disaster of their defeat by mutual slaughter. Whether the
war was at an end, or whether they might choose to resume the conflict,
the vanquished would find in union the sole mitigation of their lot. The
spirit of the rest of the army was broken, but the Praetorians angrily
complained that they had been vanquished, not by valour, but by treachery.
"The Vitellianists indeed," they said, "gained no bloodless
victory; their cavalry was defeated, a legion lost its eagle. We have still
the troops beyond the Padus, and Otho himself. The legions of Moesia are
coming; a great part of the army remained at Bedriacum; these certainly
were never vanquished; and if it must be so, it is on the battlefield that
we shall fall with most honour." Amid all the exasperation or terror
of these thoughts, the extremity of despair yet roused them to fury rather
than to fear. 
[2.45] The army of Vitellius bivouacked
at the fifth milestone from Bedriacum. The generals did not venture an
assault on the enemy's camp that same day; besides, a capitulation was
expected. Though they were without baggage, and had marched out only to
fight, it was sufficient protection to them that they had arms, and were
victorious. On the following day, as the feeling of Otho's army was evident,
and those who had been most furious were inclined to repent, envoys were
sent, nor did the generals of Vitellius hesitate to grant conditions of
peace. The envoys indeed were detained for some little time, and this circumstance
caused some doubt, as it was not known whether they had obtained their
object; before long, however, they returned, and the camp was thrown open.
Both victors and vanquished melted into tears, and cursed the fatality
of civil strife with a melancholy joy. There in the same tents did they
dress the wounds of brothers or of kinsmen. Their hopes, their rewards,
were all uncertain; death and sorrow were sure. And no one had so escaped
misfortune as to have no bereavement to lament. Search was made for the
body of the legate Orfidius, and it was burnt with the customary honours.
A few were buried by their friends; the multitude that remained were left
above ground. 
[2.46] Otho was awaiting news of the
battle free from alarm and resolved in purpose. First came gloomy tidings,
and then fugitives from the field, making known that all was lost. The
zeal of the soldiers did not wait for the Emperor to speak. They bade him
be of good cheer, telling him that he had still fresh forces, and that
they would themselves endure and dare to the last. This was no flattery;
they were fired by a furious impulse to seek the battle-field, and raise
again the fallen fortunes of their party. Those who stood at a distance
stretched out their arms, those who were near clasped the Emperor's knees,
and Plotius Firmus was the most zealous of them all. This man, who was
prefect of the Praetorian Guard, repeatedly besought Otho not to desert
an army so loyal and soldiers so deserving; "there was more courage
in bearing trouble," he said, "than in escaping from it; the
brave and the energetic cling to hope, even in spite of fortune; the cowardly
and the indolent are hurried into despair by their fears." While he
was thus speaking, as Otho assumed a relenting or a stern expression, the
soldiers cheered or groaned. Nor was it only the Praetorians, who were
peculiarly Otho's troops, that thus acted; those who had been sent on from
Moesia declared that the approaching army was as firmly resolved, and that
the legions had entered Aquileia. No one therefore can doubt that the war
might have been renewed with its terrible disasters, and its uncertainties
both for victors and vanquished. 
[2.47] Otho himself was opposed to all
thoughts of war. He said, "I hold that to expose such a spirit, such
a courage as yours, to any further risk is to put too high a value on my
life. The more hope you hold out to me, should I choose to live, the more
glorious will be my death. Fortune and I now know each other; you need
not reckon for how long, for it is peculiarly difficult to be moderate
with that prosperity which you think you will not long enjoy. The civil
war began with Vitellius; he was the first cause of our contending in arms
for the throne; the example of not contending more than once shall belong
to me. By this let posterity judge of Otho. Vitellius is welcome to his
brother, his wife, his children. I need neither revenge nor consolation.
Others may have held the throne for a longer time, but no one can have
left it with such fortitude. Shall I suffer so large a portion of the youth
of Rome and so many noble armies to be again laid low and to be lost to
the State? Let this thought go with me, that you were willing to die for
me. But live, and let us no longer delay, lest I interfere with your safety,
you with my firmness. To say too much about one's end is a mark of cowardice.
Take as the strongest proof of my determination the fact that I complain
of no one. To accuse either gods or men is only for him who wishes to live."

[2.48] After having thus spoken, he
courteously entreated all in terms befitting their age and rank to go at
once, and not exasperate the anger of the conqueror by staying. With the
young he used his authority, with the old his prayers, and still his look
was calm, his speech collected, as he checked the unseasonable tears of
his friends. He gave orders that those who were departing should be furnished
with boats and carriages; he destroyed all memorials and letters remarkable
for their expressions of zeal for himself or their abuse of Vitellius.
He distributed some gratuities, but sparingly, and not like a man who was
soon to die. Then he even administered consolation to Salvius Cocceianus,
his brother's son, a very young man, who was anxious and sorrowful, praising
his affection while he rebuked his fear. "Do you think," he said,
"that Vitellius will shew so ruthless a temper that he will not make
even this return for the preservation of his whole family? By hastening
my end I earn the clemency of the conqueror. It is not in the extremity
of despair, but while my army yet cries for battle, that I have sacrificed
to the State my last chance. I have obtained enough reputation for myself,
enough nobility for my family. Successor to the Julii, the Claudii, the
Servii, have been the first to bring the Imperial dignity into a new family.
Enter then on life with a brave heart, and never entirely forget, or remember
too vividly, that Otho was your uncle." 
[2.49] After this he dismissed every
one, and took some repose. He was now pondering in his heart the last cares
of life, when his attention was distracted by a sudden tumult and he was
told of the confusion and outrageous conduct of the soldiers. They were
threatening with death all who attempted to depart, and were extreme in
their violence against Verginius, whose house they had blockaded and were
besieging. After rebuking the ringleaders of the tumult, he returned and
employed himself in granting interviews to those who were departing, till
all had left in safety. Towards evening he quenched his thirst with a draught
of cold water. Two daggers were brought to him; he tried the edge of each,
and then put one under his head. After satisfying himself that his friends
had set out, he passed a tranquil night, and it is even said that he slept.
At dawn he fell with his breast upon the steel. Hearing a groan from the
dying man, his freedmen and slaves, and Plotius Firmus, prefect of the
Praetorian Guard, came in. They found but one wound. His funeral was hastily
performed. He had made this the subject of earnest entreaties, anxious
that his head might not be cut off and subjected to indignities. The Praetorian
cohorts carried his body with praises and tears, covering his wound and
his hands with kisses. Some of the soldiers killed themselves near the
funeral pile, not moved by remorse or by fear, but by the desire to emulate
his glory, and by love of their Prince. Afterwards this kind of death became
a common practice among all ranks at Bedriacum, at Placentia, and in the
other camps. Over Otho was built a tomb unpretending and therefore likely
to stand. 
[2.50] Thus Otho ended his life in the
37th year of his age. He came from the municipal town of Ferentinum. His
father was of consular, his grandfather of praetorian rank. His family
on the mother's side was of less distinction, but yet respectable. What
his boyhood and his youth had been, we have already shewn. By two daring
acts, one most atrocious, the other singularly noble, he earned in the
eyes of posterity about an equal share of infamy and of glory. I should
think it unbecoming the dignity of the task which I have undertaken, to
collect fabulous marvels, and to amuse with fiction the tastes of my readers;
at the same time I would not venture to impugn the credit of common report
and tradition. The natives of these parts relate that on the day when the
battle was being fought at Bedriacum, a bird of unfamiliar appearance settled
in a much frequented grove near Regium Lepidum, and was not frightened
or driven away by the concourse of people, or by the multitude of birds
that flocked round it, until Otho killed himself; then it vanished. When
they came to compute the time, it was found that the commencement and the
end of this strange occurrence tallied with the last scenes of Otho's life.

[2.51] At the funeral the mutinous spirit
of the soldiers was kindled afresh by their sorrow and regret, and there
was no one to check them. They turned to Verginius, and in threatening
language, at one time besought him to accept the Imperial dignity, at another,
to act as envoy to Caecina and Valens. Verginius secretly departed by a
back way from his house, and thus managed to elude them when they burst
in. Rubrius Gallus was charged with the petition of the cohorts which had
been quartered at Brixellum. An amnesty was immediately granted to them,
while at the same time the forces which had been commanded by Flavius Sabinus
signified through him their submission to the conqueror. 
[2.52] Hostilities had ceased everywhere,
but a considerable number of the Senate, who had accompanied Otho from
Rome, and had been afterwards left at Mutina, encountered the utmost peril.
News of the defeat was brought to this place. The soldiers, however, rejected
it as a false report; and judging the Senate to be hostile to Otho, watched
their language, and put an unfavourable construction on their looks and
manner. Proceeding at last to abuse and insults, they sought a pretext
for beginning a massacre, while a different anxiety also weighed upon the
Senators, who, knowing that the party of Vitellius was in the ascendant,
feared that they might seem to have been tardy in welcoming the conqueror.
Thus they met in great alarm and distracted by a twofold apprehension;
no one was ready with any advice of his own, but looked for safety in sharing
any mistake with many others. The anxieties of the terrified assembly were
aggravated when the Senate of Mutina made them an offer of arms and money,
and, with an ill-timed compliment, styled them "Conscript Fathers."

[2.53] There then ensued a notable quarrel,
Licinius Caecina inveighing against Marcellus Eprius, for using ambiguous
language. The rest indeed did not express their opinions, but the name
of Marcellus, exposed as it was to odium from the hateful recollection
of his career as an informer, had roused in Caecina, who was an unknown
man, and had lately been made a Senator, the hope of distinguishing himself
by making great enemies. The moderation of wiser men put an end to the
dispute. They all returned to Bononia, intending there to deliberate again,
and also expecting further news in the meantime. At Bononia they posted
men on the different roads to make enquiries of every newcomer; one of
Otho's freedmen, on being questioned as to the cause of his departure,
replied that he was entrusted with his master's last commands; Otho was
still alive, he said, when he left him, but his only thoughts were for
posterity, and he had torn himself from all the fascinations of life. They
were struck with admiration, and were ashamed to put any more questions,
and then the hearts of all turned to Vitellius. 
[2.54] Lucius Vitellius, the brother
of the Emperor, was present at their deliberations, and was preparing to
receive their flatteries, when of a sudden Coenus, a freedman of Nero,
threw them all into consternation by an outrageous falsehood. He asserted
that, by the arrival of the 14th legion, joined to the forces from Brixellum,
the victorious army had been routed and the fortunes of the party changed.
The object of this fabrication was that the passports of Otho, which were
beginning to be disregarded, might through more favourable news recover
their validity. Coenus was conveyed with rapidity to the capital, but a
few days after suffered the penalty of his crime by the order of Vitellius.
The peril of the Senators was increased by the soldiers of Otho's army
believing that the intelligence thus brought was authentic. Their alarm
was heightened by the fact that their departure from Mutina and their desertion
of the party had the appearance of a public resolution. They did not meet
again for general deliberation, but every man consulted his own safety,
till letters arrived from Fabius Valens which removed their fear. Besides,
the very glory of Otho's death made the news travel more quickly. 
[2.55] At Rome, however, there was no
alarm; the games of Ceres were attended as usual. When trustworthy messengers
brought into the theatre the news that Otho was dead, and that all the
troops in the capital had taken the oath to Vitellius under the direction
of Flavius Sabinus, prefect of the city, the spectators greeted the name
of Vitellius with applause. The people carried round the temples images
of Galba, ornamented with laurel leaves and flowers, and piled chaplets
in the form of a sepulchral mound near the lake of Curtius, on the very
spot which had been stained with the blood of the dying man. In the Senate
all the customary honours, which had been devised during the long reigns
of other Emperors, were forthwith decreed. Public acknowledgments and thanks
were also given to the armies of Germany, and envoys were sent charged
with congratulations. There was read a letter from Fabius Valens to the
consuls, which was written in a not unbecoming style, but they liked better
the modesty of Caecina in not writing at all. 
[2.56] Italy, however, was prostrated
under sufferings heavier and more terrible than the evils of war. The soldiers
of Vitellius, dispersed through the municipal towns and colonies, were
robbing and plundering and polluting every place with violence and lust.
Everything, lawful or unlawful, they were ready to seize or to sell, sparing
nothing, sacred or profane. Some persons under the soldiers' garb murdered
their private enemies. The soldiers themselves, who knew the country well,
marked out rich estates and wealthy owners for plunder, or for death in
case of resistance; their commanders were in their power and dared not
check them. Caecina indeed was not so rapacious as he was fond of popularity;
Valens was so notorious for his dishonest gains and peculations that he
was disposed to conceal the crimes of others. The resources of Italy had
long been impaired, and the presence of so vast a force of infantry and
cavalry, with the outrages, the losses, and the wrongs they inflicted,
was more than it could well endure. 
[2.57] Meanwhile Vitellius, as yet unaware
of his victory, was bringing up the remaining strength of the army of Germany
just as if the campaign had yet to be fought. A few of the old soldiers
were left in the winter quarters, and the conscription throughout Gaul
was hastily proceeded with, in order that the muster rolls of the legions
which remained behind might be filled up. The defence of the bank of the
Rhine was entrusted to Hordeonius Flaccus. Vitellius himself added to his
own army 8000 men of the British conscription. He had proceeded a few days'
march, when he received intelligence of the victory at Bedriacum, and of
the termination of the war through Otho's death. He called an assembly,
and heaped praises on the valour of the soldiers. When the army demanded
that he should confer equestrian rank on Asiaticus his freedman, he checked
the disgraceful flattery. Then, with his characteristic fickleness, in
the privacy of a banquet he granted the very distinction which he had publicly
refused; and honoured with the ring of Knighthood this same Asiaticus,
a slave of infamous character, ever seeking power by unprincipled intrigues.

[2.58] About the same time news came
to Vitellius that the procurator Albinus had fallen, and that both the
provinces of Mauritania had declared for him. Lucceius Albinus, whom Nero
had appointed to the government of Mauritania Caesariensis, to which Galba
had subsequently added the charge of the province of Tingitana, had the
disposal of no contemptible force. He had with him 19 cohorts of infantry,
5 squadrons of cavalry, and a vast number of Moors, a force trained to
war by robbery and plunder. When Galba had fallen, he was strongly disposed
in favour of Otho. He even looked beyond Africa and threatened Spain, which
is separated from it only by a narrow strait. This alarmed Cluvius Rufus,
who ordered the 10th legion to approach the coast, as if he intended to
send them across. Some of the centurions were sent on before to gain for
Vitellius the good-will of the Moors. This was no difficult task, as the
fame of the German army was great in the provinces. Besides this, a report
was circulated that Albinus, scorning the title of procurator, was assuming
the insignia of royalty and the name of Juba. 
[2.59] The tide of feeling turned, and
Asinius Pollio, one of the stanchest friends of Albinus, prefect of one
of the squadrons of cavalry, with Festus and Scipio, prefects of two infantry
cohorts, were killed. Albinus himself, who was sailing from the province
Tingitana to Mauritania Caesariensis, was murdered as he reached the shore.
His wife threw herself in the way of the murderers and was killed with
him. Vitellius made no inquiries into what was going on. He dismissed matters
of even the greatest importance with brief hearing, and was quite unequal
to any serious business. He directed the army to proceed by land, but sailed
himself down the river Arar. His progress had nothing of imperial state
about it, but was marked by the poverty of his former condition, till Junius
Blaesus, governor of Gallia Lugdunensis, a man of noble birth, whose munificence
was equal to his wealth, furnished him with suitable attendance, and escorted
him with a splendid retinue; a service which was of itself displeasing,
though Vitellius masked his dislike under servile compliments. At Lugdunum
the generals of the two parties, the conquerors and the conquered, were
waiting for him. Valens and Caecina he put by his own chair of state, after
celebrating their praises before a general assembly. He then ordered the
whole army to come and greet his infant son; he brought him out, wrapped
in a military cloak, and holding him in his arms, gave him the title of
Germanicus and surrounded him with all the insignia of the imperial rank.
It was an extravagant distinction for a day of prosperity, but it served
as a consolation in adversity. 
[2.60] Then the bravest centurions among
the Othonianists were put to death. This, more than anything else, alienated
from Vitellius the armies of Illyricum. At the same time the other legions,
influenced by the contagion of example, and by their dislike of the German
troops, were meditating war. Vitellius detained Suetonius Paullinus and
Licinus Proculus in all the wretchedness of an odious imprisonment; when
they were heard, they resorted to a defence, necessary rather than honourable.
They actually claimed the merit of having been traitors, attributing to
their own dishonest counsels the long march before the battle, the fatigue
of Otho's troops, the entanglement of the line with the baggage-wagons,
and many circumstances which were really accidental. Vitellius gave them
credit for perfidy, and acquitted them of the crime of loyalty. Salvius
Titianus, the brother of Otho, was never in any peril, for his brotherly
affection and his apathetic character screened him from danger. Marius
Celsus had his consulship confirmed to him. It was commonly believed, however,
and was afterwards made a matter of accusation in the Senate against Caecilius
Simplex, that he had sought to purchase this honour, and with it the destruction
of Celsus. Vitellius refused, and afterwards bestowed on Simplex a consulship
that had not to be bought with crime or with money. Trachalus was protected
against his accusers by Galeria the wife of Vitellius. 
[2.61] Amid the adventures of these
illustrious men, one is ashamed to relate how a certain Mariccus, a Boian
of the lowest origin, pretending to divine inspiration, ventured to thrust
himself into fortune's game, and to challenge the arms of Rome. Calling
himself the champion of Gaul, and a God (for he had assumed this title),
he had now collected 8000 men, and was taking possession of the neighbouring
villages of the Aedui, when that most formidable state attacked him with
a picked force of its native youth, to which Vitellius attached some cohorts,
and dispersed the crowd of fanatics. Mariccus was captured in the engagement,
and was soon after exposed to wild beasts, but not having been torn by
them was believed by the senseless multitude to be invulnerable, till he
was put to death in the presence of Vitellius. 
[2.62] No further severities were exercised
on the persons of the opposite faction, or with property in any case; the
wills of those who had fallen fighting for Otho were held to be valid,
and with those who died intestate, the law was carried out. Assuredly,
could Vitellius have bridled his luxurious tastes, no one need have dreaded
his rapacity. He had a scandalous and insatiable passion for feasts; the
provocatives of gluttony were conveyed to him from the capital and from
Italy, till the roads from both seas resounded with traffic; the leading
men of the various states were ruined by having to furnish his entertainments,
and the states themselves reduced to beggary; the soldiers fast degenerated
from their old activity and valour, through habitual indulgence and contempt
of their leader. He sent on before him to the capital an edict, by which
he postponed his acceptance of the title of Augustus and refused that of
Caesar, though he relinquished nothing of his actual power. The astrologers
were banished from Italy. The Roman Knights were forbidden, under severe
penalties, to degrade themselves by appearing in public entertainments,
or in the arena. Former Emperors had encouraged the practice by bribes,
or more frequently enforced it by compulsion; and many of the towns and
colonies had vied with each other in attracting by large pay the most profligate
of the youth. 
[2.63] Vitellius, however, when his
brother joined him, and when those who are skilled in the arts of despotism
began to creep into his confidence, grew more arrogant and cruel. He ordered
the execution of Dolabella, whose banishment by Otho to the Colonia Aquinas
I have before mentioned. Dolabella, on hearing of the death of Otho, had
entered the capital. Plancius Varus, who had filled the office of praetor,
and had been one of Dolabella's intimate friends, founded on this a charge,
which he laid before Flavius Sabinus, prefect of the city, implying that
Dolabella had escaped from custody, and had offered to put himself at the
head of the vanquished party; and he also alleged that the cohort stationed
at Ostia had been tampered with. Of these grave accusations he brought
no proof whatever, and then repenting, sought, when the crime had been
consummated, a pardon which could be of no avail. Flavius Sabinus hesitating
to act in a matter of such importance, Triaria, the wife of Lucius Vitellius,
with unfeminine ferocity, warned him not to seek a reputation for clemency
by imperilling the Emperor. Sabinus was naturally of a mild disposition,
but under the pressure of fear was easily swayed; here, the danger of another
made him tremble for himself, and, lest he might seem to have helped the
accused, he precipitated his fall. 
[2.64] Upon this, Vitellius, who, besides
fearing Dolabella, hated him, because he had married Petronia, his former
wife, summoned him by letter, and at the same time gave orders that, without
passing along the much frequented thoroughfare of the Flaminian road, he
should turn aside to Interamna, and there be put to death. This seemed
too tedious to the executioner, who in a road-side tavern struck down his
prisoner, and cut his throat. The act brought great odium upon the new
reign, and was noted as the first indication of its character. Triaria's
recklessness was rendered more intolerable by an immediate contrast with
the exemplary virtue of Galeria, the Emperor's wife, who took no part in
these horrors, and with Sextilia, the mother of the two Vitellii, a woman
equally blameless, and of the old type of character. She indeed is said
to have exclaimed on receiving the first letter from her son, "I am
the mother, not of Germanicus, but of Vitellius." And in after days
no seductions of fortune, no flattery from the State, could move her to
exultation; it was only the misfortunes of her family that she felt. 
[2.65] M. Cluvius Rufus, who had left
his government in Spain, came up with Vitellius after his departure from
Lugdunum. He wore a look of joy and congratulation, but he was anxious
at heart, for he knew that he was the object of accusations. Hilarius,
the Emperor's freedman, had indeed brought this charge against him, that
on hearing of the contest for the throne between Vitellius and Otho, he
had made an attempt to secure power for himself, and to obtain possession
of Spain, and that with this view he had not headed his passports with
the name of any Emperor. Some extracts from the speeches of Rufus he represented
as insulting to Vitellius, and intended to win popularity for himself.
So strong, however, was the influence of Cluvius, that Vitellius actually
ordered the freedman to be punished. Cluvius was attached to the Emperor's
retinue; Spain however was not taken from him; he still governed the province
though not resident, as L. Arruntius had done before him, whom Tiberius
Caesar detained at home, because he feared him; it was not from any apprehension
that Vitellius kept Cluvius with him. The same compliment was not paid
to Trebellius Maximus. He had fled from Britain because of the exasperation
of the soldiery. Vettius Bolanus, who was then accompanying the Emperor,
was sent to succeed him. 
[2.66] Vitellius was troubled by the
spirit of the vanquished legions, which was anything but broken. Scattered
through all parts of Italy, and mingled with the conquerors, they spoke
the language of enemies. The soldiers of the 14th legion were peculiarly
furious. They said that they had not been vanquished; that at the battle
of Bedriacum only the veterans had been beaten, and that the strength of
the legion had been absent. It was resolved that these troops should be
sent back to Britain, from which province Nero had summoned them, and that
the Batavian cohorts should in the meantime be quartered with them, because
there was an old feud between them and the 14th. In the presence of such
animosities between these armed masses, harmony did not last long. At Augusta
of the Taurini it happened that a Batavian soldier fiercely charged some
artisan with having cheated him, and that a soldier of the legion took
the part of his host. Each man's comrades gathered round him; from words
they came to blows, and a fierce battle would have broken out, had not
two Praetorian cohorts taken the side of the 14th, and given confidence
to them, while they intimidated the Batavians. Vitellius then ordered that
these latter troops should be attached to his own force, in consideration
of their loyalty, and that the legion should pass over the Graian Alps,
and then take that line of road, by which they would avoid passing Vienna,
for the inhabitants of that place were also suspected. On the night of
the departure of the legion, a part of the Colonia Taurina was destroyed
by the fires which were left in every direction. This loss, like many of
the evils of war, was forgotten in the greater disasters which happened
to other cities. When the 14th had made the descent on the other side of
the Alps, the most mutinous among them were for carrying the standards
to Vienna. They were checked, however, by the united efforts of the better
disposed, and the legion was transported into Britain. 
[2.67] Vitellius found his next cause
of apprehension in the Praetorian cohorts. They were first divided, and
then ordered, though with the gratifying compliment of an honourable discharge,
to give up their arms to their tribunes. But as the arms Vespasian gathered
strength, they returned to their old service, and constituted the mainstay
of the Flavianist party. The first legion from the fleet was sent into
Spain, that in the peaceful repose of that province their excitement might
subside; the 7th and 11th were sent back to their winter quarters; the,
13th were ordered to erect amphitheatres, for both Caecina at Cremona,
and Valens at Bononia, were preparing to exhibit shows of gladiators. Vitellius
indeed was never so intent on the cares of Empire as to forget his pleasures.

[2.68] Though he had thus quietly divided
the conquered party, there arose a disturbance among the conquerors. It
began in sport, but the number of those who fell aggravated the horrors
of the war. Vitellius had sat down to a banquet at Ticinum, and had invited
Verginius to be his guest. The legates and tribunes always follow the character
of the Emperor, and either imitate his strictness, or indulge in early
conviviality. And the soldiers in like manner are either diligent or lax
in their duty. About Vitellius all was disorder and drunkenness, more like
a nocturnal feast and revel than a properly disciplined camp. Thus it happened
that two soldiers, one of whom belonged to the 5th legion, while the other
was one of the Gallic auxiliaries, challenged each other in sport to a
wrestling match. The legionary was thrown, and the Gaul taunted him. The
soldiers who had assembled to witness the contest took different sides,
till the legionaries made a sudden and murderous attack on the auxiliary
troops, and destroyed two cohorts. The first disturbance was checked only
by a second. A cloud of dust and the glitter of arms were seen at a distance.
A sudden cry was raised that the 14th legion had retraced its steps, and
was advancing to the attack. It was in fact the rearguard of the army,
and their recognition removed the cause of alarm. Meanwhile a slave of
Verginius happened to come in their way. He was charged with having designed
the assassination of Vitellius. The soldiers rushed to the scene of the
banquet, and loudly demanded the death of Verginius. Even Vitellius, tremblingly
alive as he was to all suspicions, had no doubt of his innocence. Yet he
could hardly check the troops when they clamoured for the death of a man
of consular rank, formerly their own general. Indeed there was no one who
was more frequently the object of all kinds of outbreaks than Verginius;
the man still was admired, still retained his high reputation, but they
hated him with the hatred of those who are despised. 
[2.69] The next day Vitellius, after
giving audience to the envoys from the Senate whom he had ordered to wait
for him there, proceeded to the camp, and actually bestowed high praise
on the loyalty of the soldiers. The auxiliary troops loudly complained
that such complete impunity, such privileged arrogance, was accorded to
the legions. The Batavian cohorts were sent back to Germany, lest they
should venture on further violence. Destiny was thus simultaneously preparing
the occasions of civil and of foreign war. The Gallic auxiliaries were
sent back to their respective states, a vast body of men, which in the
very earliest stage of the revolt had been employed to make an idle show
of strength. Besides this, in order to eke out the Imperial resources,
which had been impaired by a series of bounties, directions were given
that the battalions of the legions and the auxiliary forces should be reduced,
all recruiting being forbidden. Discharges were offered without distinction.
This measure was disastrous to the State, and distasteful to the soldier,
who found that the same duty was distributed among a smaller number, and
that his toils and risks came round in a more frequent succession. Their
vigour too was undermined by luxury, a luxury that transgressed our ancient
discipline and the customs of our ancestors, in whose days the power of
Rome found a surer foundation in valour than in wealth. 
[2.70] Vitellius then directed his course
to Cremona, and after witnessing the spectacle exhibited by Caecina, he
conceived a desire to visit the plains of Bedriacum and to survey the scene
of the recent victory. It was a hideous and terrible sight. Not forty days
had passed since the battle, and there lay mangled corpses, severed limbs,
the putrefying forms of men and horses; the soil was saturated with gore,
and, what with levelled trees and crops, horrible was the desolation. Not
less revolting was that portion of the road which the people of Cremona
had strewed with laurel leaves and roses, and on which they had raised
altars, and sacrificed victims as if to greet some barbarous despot, festivities
in which they delighted for the moment, but which were afterwards to work
their ruin. Valens and Caecina were present, and pointed out the various
localities of the field of battle; shewing how from one point the columns
of the legions had rushed to the attack; how from another the cavalry had
charged; how from a third the auxiliary troops had turned the flank of
the enemy. The tribunes and prefects extolled their individual achievements,
and mixed together fictions, facts, and exaggerations. The common soldiers
also turned aside from the line of march with joyful shouts, and recognized
the various scenes of conflict, and gazed with wonder on the piles of weapons
and the heaps of slain. Some indeed there were whom all this moved to thoughts
of the mutability of fortune, to pity, and to tears. Vitellius did not
turn away his eyes, did not shudder to behold the unburied corpses of so
many thousands of his countrymen; nay, in his exultation, in his ignorance
of the doom which was so close upon himself, he actually instituted a religious
ceremony in honour of the tutelary gods of the place. 
[2.71] A show of gladiators was then
given by Fabius Valens at Bononia, with all the arrangements introduced
from the capital. The nearer the Emperor approached to Rome, the greater
was the license of his march, accompanied as it was by players and herds
of eunuchs, in fact by all that had characterised the court of Nero. Indeed,
Vitellius used to make a display of his admiration for Nero, and had constantly
followed him when he sang, not from the compulsion to which the noblest
had to yield, but because he was the slave and chattel of profligacy and
gluttony. To leave some months of office open for Valens and Caecina, the
consulates of others were abridged, that of Martius Macer was ignored on
the ground of his having been one of Otho's generals. Valerius Maximus,
who had been nominated consul by Galba, had his dignity deferred for no
offence, but because he was a man of gentle temper, and could submit tamely
to an affront. Pedanius Costa was passed over. The Emperor disliked him
because he had risen against Nero, and roused Verginius to revolt. Other
reasons, however, were alleged. Finally, after the servile fashion of the
time, thanks were voted to Vitellius. 
[2.72] A deception, which was started
with considerable vigour, lasted for a few, and but a few days. There had
suddenly sprung up a man, who gave out that he was Scribonianus Camerinus;
that, dreading the times of Nero, he had concealed himself in Histria,
where the old family of the Crassi still had dependants, estates, and a
popular name. He admitted into the secret of his imposture all the most
worthless of his followers; and the credulous populace and some of the
soldiers, either from not knowing the truth, or impatient for revolution,
began eagerly to rally round him. When he was brought before Vitellius,
and asked who he was, as his account of himself could not be trusted,,
and his master recognised him as a runaway slave, by name Geta, he was
executed as slaves usually are. 
[2.73] It would almost pass belief,
were I to tell to what a degree the insolence and sloth of Vitellius grew
upon him when messengers from Syria and Judaea brought the news that the
provinces of the East had sworn allegiance to him. Though as yet all information
was but vague and uncertain, Vespasian was the subject of much talk and
rumour, and at the mention of his name Vitellius often roused himself.
But now, both the Emperor and the army, as if they had no rival to fear,
indulging in cruelty, lust, and rapine, plunged into all the licence of
foreign manners. 
[2.74] Vespasian, on the other hand,
was taking a general survey of the chances of a campaign and of his resources
both immediate and remote. The soldiers were so entirely devoted to him,
that as he dictated the oath of allegiance and prayed for all prosperity
to Vitellius, they listened to him in silence. Mucianus had no dislike
to Vespasian, and was strongly inclined towards Titus. Already had Alexander,
the governor of Egypt, declared his adhesion. The third legion, as it had
passed over from Syria to Moesia, Vespasian counted upon as devoted to
himself, and it was hoped that the other legions of Illyricum would follow
its example. In fact the whole army had been kindled into indignation by
the insolence of the soldiers who came among them from Vitellius. Savage
in appearance, and speaking a rude dialect, they ridiculed everybody else
as their inferiors. But in such gigantic preparations for war there is
usually delay. Vespasian was at one moment high in hope, and at another
disposed to reflect on the chances of failure. What a day would that be
when he should expose himself with his sixty years upon him, and the two
young men, his sons, to the perils of war! In private enterprises men may
advance or recede, and presume more or less upon fortune as they may choose,
whereas they who aim at empire have no alternative between the highest
success and utter downfall. 
[2.75] The strength of the army of Germany,
with which as a military man he was well acquainted, was continually before
his eyes. He reflected that his own legions were wholly without experience
of a civil war, that those of Vitellius had been victorious, and that among
the conquered there was more dissatisfaction than real strength. Civil
strife had shaken the fidelity of the Roman soldiery, and danger was to
be apprehended from individuals. What would be the use of infantry and
cavalry, should one or two men seek the prize with which the enemy would
be ready to reward a prompt act of treason? It was thus that Scribonianus
had fallen in the days of Claudius, and his murderer, Volaginius, had been
raised from the ranks to the highest military command. It was easier to
move the hearts of the multitude than to avoid the single assassin. 
[2.76] Though staggered by these apprehensions,
he was confirmed in his purpose by others among the legates and among his
own friends, and particularly by Mucianus, who, after many conversations
with him in private, now publicly addressed him in the following terms:
"All who enter upon schemes involving great interests, should consider
whether what they are attempting be for the advantage of the State, for
their own credit, easy of accomplishment, or at any rate free from serious
difficulty. They must also weigh the circumstances of their adviser, must
see whether he will follow up his advice by imperilling himself, and must
know who, should fortune prosper the undertaking, is to have the highest
honours. I invite you, Vespasian, to a dignity which will be as beneficial
to the State, as it will be honourable to yourself. Under heaven this dignity
lies within your reach. And do not dread what may present the semblance
of flattery. To be chosen successor to Vitellius would be more of an insult
than a compliment. It is not against the vigorous intellect of the Divine
Augustus, it is not against the profound subtlety of the aged Tiberius,
it is not even against the house of Caius, Claudius, or Nero, established
by a long possession of the Empire, that we are rising in revolt. You have
already yielded to the prestige even of Galba's family. To persist in inaction,
and to leave the State to degradation and ruin, would look like indolence
and cowardice, even supposing that servitude were as safe for you as it
would be infamous. The time has gone by and passed away when you might
have endured the suspicion of having coveted Imperial power. That power
is now your only refuge. Have you forgotten how Corbulo was murdered? His
origin, I grant, was more illustrious than ours; yet in nobility of birth
Nero surpassed Vitellius. The man who is afraid sees distinction enough
in any one whom he fears. That an Emperor can be created by the army, Vitellius
is himself a proof, who, though he had seen no service and had no military
reputation, was raised to the throne by the unpopularity of Galba. Otho,
who was overcome, not indeed by skilful generalship, or by a powerful enemy,
but by his own premature despair, this man has made into a great and deservedly
regretted Emperor, and all the while he is disbanding his legions, disarming
his auxiliaries, and sowing every day fresh seeds of civil war. All the
energy and high spirit which once belonged to his army is wasted in the
revelry of taverns and in aping the debaucheries of their chief. You have
from Judaea, Syria, and Egypt, nine fresh legions, unexhausted by battle,
uncorrupted by dissension; you have a soldiery hardened by habits of warfare
and victorious over foreign foes; you have strong fleets, auxiliaries both
horse and foot, kings most faithful to your cause, and an experience in
which you excel all other men. 
[2.77] "For myself I will claim
nothing more than not to be reckoned inferior to Valens and Caecina. But
do not spurn Mucianus as an associate, because you do not find in him a
rival. I count myself better than Vitellius; I count you better than myself.
Your house is ennobled by the glories of a triumph; it has two youthful
scions, one of whom is already equal to the cares of Empire, and in the
earliest years of his military career won renown with these very armies
of Germany. It would be ridiculous in me not to waive my claims to Empire
in favour of the man whose son I should adopt, were I myself Emperor. Between
us, however, there will not be an equal distribution of the fruits of success
or failure. If we are victorious. I shall have whatever honour you think
fit to bestow on me; the danger and the peril we shall share alike; nay,
I would rather have you, as is the better policy, direct your armies, and
leave to me the conduct of the war and the hazards of battle. At this very
moment a stricter discipline prevails among the conquered than among the
conquerors. The conquered are fired to valour by anger, by hatred, by the
desire of vengeance, while the conquerors are losing their energy in pride
and insolence. War will of itself discover and lay open the hidden and
rankling wounds of the victorious party. And, indeed, your vigilance, economy,
and wisdom, do not inspire me with greater confidence of success than do
the indolence, ignorance, and cruelty of Vitellius. Once at war, we have
a better cause than we can have in peace, for those who deliberate on revolt
have revolted already." 
[2.78] After this speech from Mucianus,
the other officers crowded round Vespasian with fresh confidence, encouraging
him, and reminding him of the responses of prophets and the movements of
the heavenly bodies. Nor was Vespasian proof against this superstition,
for afterwards, when master of the world, he openly retained one Seleucus,
an astrologer, to direct his counsels, and to foretell the future. Old
omens now recurred to his thoughts. A cypress tree of remarkable height
on his estate had suddenly fallen, and rising again the following day on
the very same spot, had flourished with majestic beauty and even broader
shade. This, as the Haruspices agreed, was an omen of brilliant success,
and the highest distinction seemed prophesied to Vespasian in early youth.
At first, however, the honours of a triumph, his consulate, and the glory
of his victories in Judaea, appeared to have justified the truth of the
omen. When he had won these distinctions, he began to believe that it portended
the Imperial power. Between Judaea and Syria is Mount Carmel; this is the
name both of the mountain and the Deity. They have no image of the god
nor any temple; the tradition of antiquity recognises only an altar and
its sacred association. While Vespasian was there offering sacrifice and
pondering his secret hopes, Basilides the priest, after repeated inspections
of the entrails, said to him, "Whatever be your purposes, Vespasian,
whether you think of building a house, of enlarging your estate, or augmenting
the number of your slaves, there is given you a vast habitation, boundless
territory, a multitude of men." These obscure intimations popular
rumour had at once caught up, and now began to interpret. Nothing was more
talked about by the common people. In Vespasian's presence the topic was
more frequently discussed, because to the aspirant himself men have more
to say. 
[2.79] With purposes no longer doubtful
they parted, Mucianus for Antioch, Vespasian for Caesarea. These cities
are the capitals of Syria and Judaea respectively. The initiative in transferring
the Empire to Vespasian was taken at Alexandria under the prompt direction
of Tiberius Alexander, who on the 1st of July made the legions swear allegiance
to him. That day was ever after celebrated as the first of his reign, though
the army of Judaea on July 3rd took the oath to Vespasian in person with
such eager alacrity that they would not wait for the return of his son
Titus, who was then on his way back from Syria, acting as the medium between
Mucianus and his father for the communication of their plans. All this
was done by the impulsive action of the soldiers without the preliminary
of a formal harangue or any concentration of the legions. 
[2.80] While they were seeking a suitable
time and place, and for that which in such an affair is the great difficulty,
the first man to speak, while hope, fear, the chances of success or of
disaster, were present to their minds, one day, on Vespasian quitting his
chamber, a few soldiers who stood near, in the usual form in which they
would salute their legate, suddenly saluted him as Emperor. Then all the
rest hurried up, called him Caesar and Augustus, and heaped on him all
the titles of Imperial rank. Their minds had passed from apprehension to
confidence of success. In Vespasian there appeared no sign of elation or
arrogance, or of any change arising from his changed fortunes. As soon
as he had dispelled the mist with which so astonishing a vicissitude had
clouded his vision, he addressed the troops in a soldier-like style, and
listened to the joyful intelligence that came pouring in from all quarters.
This was the very opportunity for which Mucianus had been waiting. He now
at once administered to the eager soldiers the oath of allegiance to Vespasian.
Then he entered the theatre at Antioch, where it is customary for the citizens
to hold their public deliberations, and as they crowded together with profuse
expressions of flattery, he addressed them. He could speak Greek with considerable
grace, and in all that he did and said he had the art of displaying himself
to advantage. Nothing excited the provincials and the army so much as the
assertion of Mucianus that Vitellius had determined to remove the legions
of Germany to Syria, to an easy and lucrative service, while the armies
of Syria were to have given them in exchange the encampments of Germany
with their inclement climate and their harassing toils. On the one hand,
the provincials from long use felt a pleasure in the companionship of the
soldiers, with whom many of them were connected by friendship or relationship;
on the other, the soldiers from the long duration of their service loved
the well-known and familiar camp as a home. 
[2.81] Before the 15th of July the whole
of Syria had adopted the same alliance. There joined him, each with his
entire kingdom, Sohemus, who had no contemptible army, and Antiochus, who
possessed vast ancestral wealth, and was the richest of all the subject-kings.
Before long Agrippa, who had been summoned from the capital by secret despatches
from his friends, while as yet Vitellius knew nothing, was crossing the
sea with all speed. Queen Berenice too, who was then in the prime of youth
and beauty, and who had charmed even the old Vespasian by the splendour
of her presents, promoted his cause with equal zeal. All the provinces
washed by the sea, as far as Asia and Achaia, and the whole expanse of
country inland towards Pontus and Armenia, took the oath of allegiance.
The legates, however, of these provinces were without troops, Cappadocia
as yet having had no legions assigned to it. A council was held at Berytus
to deliberate on the general conduct of the war. Thither came Mucianus
with the legates and tribunes and all the most distinguished centurions
and soldiers, and thither also the picked troops of the army of Judaea.
Such a vast assemblage of cavalry and infantry, and the pomp of the kings
that strove to rival each other in magnificence, presented an appearance
of Imperial splendour. 
[2.82] The first business of the campaign
was to levy troops and recall the veterans to service. The strong cities
were set apart for the manufacture of arms; at Antioch gold and silver
money was coined, everything being vigorously carried on in its appointed
place by properly qualified agents. Vespasian himself went everywhere,
urged to exertion, encouraged the industrious by praise, and with the indolent
used the stimulus of example rather than of compulsion, and chose to be
blind to the faults rather than to the merits of his friends. Many among
them he distinguished with prefectures and governments, and several with
the honours of senatorial rank; all these were men of eminence who soon
reached the highest positions. In some cases good fortune served instead
of merit. Of a donative to the troops Mucianus in his first speech had
held out only moderate hopes, and even Vespasian offered no more in the
civil war than others had done in times of peace, thus making a noble stand
against all bribery of the soldiery, and possessing in consequence a better
army. Envoys were sent to Parthia and Armenia, and precautions were taken
that, when the legions were engaged in the civil war, the country in their
rear might not be exposed to attack. It was arranged that Titus should
pursue the war in Judaea, while Vespasian should secure the passes into
Egypt. To cope with Vitellius, a portion of the army, the generalship of
Mucianus, the prestige of Vespasian's name, and the destiny before which
all difficulties vanish, seemed sufficient. To all the armies and legates
letters were despatched, and instructions were given to them that they
were to attach the Praetorians, who hated Vitellius, by the inducement
of renewed military service. 
[2.83] Mucianus, who acted more as a
colleague than as a servant of the Emperor, moved on with some light-armed
troops, not indeed at a tardy pace so as to give the appearance of delay,
yet not with extraordinary speed. Thus he allowed rumour to gather fresh
strength by distance, well aware that his force was but small, and that
exaggerated notions are formed about what is not seen. Behind him, however,
came in a vast body the 6th legion and 13,000 veterans. He had given directions
that the fleet from the Pontus should be brought up to Byzantium, not having
yet made up his mind, whether, avoiding Moesia, he should move on Dyrrachium
with his infantry and cavalry, and at the same time blockade the sea on
the side of Italy with his ships of war, thus leaving Asia and Achaia safe
in his rear, which, being bare of troops, would be left at the mercy of
Vitellius, unless they were occupied with proper garrisons. And thus too
Vitellius himself, finding Brundisium, Tarentum, and the shores of Calabria
and Lucania menaced by hostile fleets, would be in utter perplexity as
to which part of Italy he should protect. 
[2.84] Thus the provinces echoed with
the bustle of preparing fleets, armies, and the implements of war. Nothing,
however, was so vexatious as the raising of money. Mucianus, with the perpetual
assertion that money was the sinews of war, looked in all questions, not
to right or truth, but only to the extent of a man's fortune. Informations
abounded, and all the richest men were fastened on for plunder. These intolerable
oppressions, which yet found some excuse in the necessities of war, were
continued even in peace. Vespasian himself indeed at the beginning of his
reign was not so bent on enforcing these iniquitous measures, till, spoilt
by prosperity and evil counsellors, he learnt this policy and ventured
to use it. Mucianus contributed to the war even from his own purse, liberal
with his private means because he helped himself without scruple from the
wealth of the State. The rest followed his example in contributing their
money; very few enjoyed the same licence in reimbursing themselves. 
[2.85] Meanwhile the operations of Vespasian
were hastened by the zeal of the army of Illyricum, which had come over
to his side. The third legion set the example to the other legions of Moesia.
These were the eighth and seventh (Claudius'), who were possessed with
a strong liking for Otho, though they had not been present at the battle
of Bedriacum. They had advanced to Aquileia, and by roughly repulsing the
messengers who brought the tidings of Otho's defeat, by tearing the colours
which displayed the name of Vitellius, by finally seizing on the military
chest and dividing it among themselves, had assumed a hostile attitude.
Then they began to fear; fear suggested a new thought, that acts might
be made a merit of with Vespasian, which would have to be excused to Vitellius.
Accordingly, the three legions of Moesia sought by letter to win over the
army of Pannonia, and prepared to use force if they refused. During this
commotion, Aponius Saturnius, governor of Moesia, ventured on a most atrocious
act. He despatched a centurion to murder Tettius Julianus, the legate of
the 7th legion, to gratify a private pique, which he concealed beneath
the appearance of party zeal. Julianus, having discovered his danger, and
procured some guides, who were acquainted with the country, fled through
the pathless wastes of Moesia beyond Mount Haemus, nor did he afterwards
take any part in the civil war. He set out to join Vespasian, but contrived
to protract his journey by various pretexts, lingering or hastening on
his way, according to the intelligence he received. 
[2.86] In Pannonia, however, the 13th
legion and the 7th (Galba's), which still retained their vexation and rage
at the defeat of Bedriacum, joined Vespasian without hesitation, mainly
under the influence of Primus Antonius. This man, though an offender against
the law, and convicted of fraud in the reign of Nero, had, among the other
calamities of war, recovered his rank as a Senator. Having been appointed
by Galba to command the 7th legion, he was commonly believed to have often
written to Otho, offering the party his services as a general. Being slighted,
however, by that Prince, he found no employment during the war. When the
fortunes of Vitellius began to totter, he attached himself to Vespasian,
and brought a vast accession of strength to his party. He was brave in
battle, ready of speech, dexterous in bringing odium upon other men, powerful
amidst civil strife and rebellion, rapacious, prodigal, the worst of citizens
in peace, but in war no contemptible ally. United by these means, the armies
of Moesia and Pannonia drew with them the soldiery of Dalmatia, though
the consular legates took no part in the movement. Titus Ampius Flavianus
was the governor of Pannonia, Poppaeus Silvanus of Dalmatia. They were
both rich and advanced in years. The Imperial procurator, however, was
Cornelius Fuscus, a man in the prime of life and of illustrious birth.
Though in early youth the desire of repose had led him to resign his senatorial
rank, he afterwards put himself at the head of his colony in fighting for
Galba, and by this service he obtained his procuratorship. Subsequently
embracing the cause of Vespasian, he lent the movement the stimulus of
a fiery zeal. Finding his pleasure not so much in the rewards of peril
as in peril itself, to assured and long acquired possession he preferred
novelty, uncertainty, and risk. Accordingly, both he and Antonius strove
to agitate and disturb wherever there was any weak point. Despatches were
sent to the 14th legion in Britain and to the 1st in Spain, for both these
legions had been on the side of Otho against Vitellius. Letters too were
scattered through every part of Gaul, and in a moment a mighty war burst
into flame, for the armies of Illyricum were already in open revolt, and
the rest were waiting only the signal of success. 
[2.87] While Vespasian and the generals
of his party were thus occupied in the provinces, Vitellius was daily becoming
more contemptible and indolent, halting to enjoy the pleasures of every
town and villa in his way, as with his cumbrous host he advanced towards
the capital. He was followed by 60,000 armed soldiers demoralized by licence.
Still larger was the number of camp-followers; and of all slaves, the slaves
of soldiers are the most unruly. So numerous a retinue of officers and
personal friends would have been difficult to keep under restraint, even
if controlled by the strictest discipline. The crowd was made more unwieldy
by Senators and Knights who came to meet him from the capital, some moved
by fear, many by a spirit of adulation, others, and by degrees all, that
they might not be left behind while the rest were going. From the dregs
of the people there thronged buffoons, players, and charioteers, known
to Vitellius from their infamous compliance with his vices; for in such
disgraceful friendships he felt a strange pleasure. And now not only were
the colonies and towns exhausted by having to furnish supplies, but the
very cultivator of the soil and his lands, on which the harvests were now
ripe, were plundered like an enemy's territory. 
[2.88] There were many sanguinary encounters
between the soldiers; for ever since the mutiny which broke out at Ticinum
there had lingered a spirit of dissension between the legions and the auxiliary
troops, though they could unite whenever they had to fight with the rustic
population. The most terrible massacre took place at the 7th milestone
from Rome. Vitellius was distributing to each soldier provisions ready
dressed on the same abundant scale as the gladiators' rations, and the
populace had poured forth, and spread themselves throughout the entire
camp. Some with the frolicsome humour of slaves robbed the careless soldiers
by slily cutting their belts, and then asked them whether they were armed.
Unused to insult, the spirit of the soldiers resented the jest. Sword in
hand they fell upon the unarmed people. Among the slain was the father
of a soldier, who was with his son. He was afterwards recognised, and his
murder becoming generally known, they spared the innocent crowd. Yet there
was a panic at Rome, as the soldiers pressed on in all directions. It was
to the forum that they chiefly directed their steps, anxious to behold
the spot where Galba had fallen. Nor were the men themselves a less frightful
spectacle, bristling as they were with the skins of wild beasts, and armed
with huge lances, while in their strangeness to the place they were embarrassed
by the crowds of people, or tumbling down in the slippery streets or from
the shock of some casual encounter, they fell to quarrelling, and then
had recourse to blows and the use of their swords. Besides, the tribunes
and prefects were hurrying to and fro with formidable bodies of armed men.

[2.89] Vitellius himself, mounted on
a splendid charger, with military cloak and sword, advanced from the Mulvian
bridge, driving the Senate and people before him; but deterred by the advice
of his friends from marching into Rome as if it were a captured city, he
assumed a civil garb, and proceeded with his army in orderly array. The
eagles of four legions were borne in front, and an equal number of colours
from other legions on either side, then came the standards of twelve auxiliary
squadrons, and the cavalry behind the ranks of the infantry. Next came
thirty-four auxiliary cohorts, distinguished according to the names or
various equipments of the nations. Before each eagle were the prefects
of the camp, the tribunes, and the centurions of highest rank, in white
robes, and the other officers by the side of their respective companies,
glittering with arms and decorations. The ornaments and chains of the soldiers
presented a brilliant appearance. It was a glorious sight, and the army
was worthy of a better Emperor than Vitellius. Thus he entered the capital,
and he there embraced his mother and honoured her with the title of Augusta.

[2.90] The next day, as if he were addressing
the Senate and people of another State, he pronounced a high panegyric
on himself, extolling his own energy and moderation, though his enormities
were known to the very persons who were present and to the whole of Italy,
his progress through which had been disgraced by sloth and profligacy.
Yet the mob, who had no patriotic anxieties, and who, without distinguishing
between truth and falsehood, had learnt the lesson of habitual flattery,
applauded him with shouts and acclamations, and, reluctant as he was to
assume the name of Augustus, extorted from him a compliance as idle as
his previous refusal. 
[2.91] The country, ready to find a
meaning in every circumstance, regarded it as an omen of gloomy import
that Vitellius, on obtaining the office of supreme Pontiff, should have
issued a proclamation concerning the public religious ceremonial on the
18th of July, a day which from old times the disasters of Cremera and Allia
had marked as unlucky. Thus utterly regardless of all law human and divine,
with freedmen and friends as reckless as himself, he lived as if he were
among a set of drunkards. Still at the consular elections he was present
in company with the candidates like an ordinary citizen, and by shewing
himself as a spectator in the theatre, as a partisan in the circus, he
courted every breath of applause from the lowest rabble. Agreeable and
popular as this conduct would have been, had it been prompted by noble
qualities, it was looked upon as undignified and contemptible from the
remembrance of his past life. He habitually appeared in the Senate even
when unimportant matters were under discussion; and it once happened that
Priscus Helvidius, the praetor elect, had spoken against his wishes. Though
at the moment provoked, he only called on the tribunes of the people to
support his insulted authority, and then, when his friends, who feared
his resentment was deeper than it appeared, sought to appease him, he replied
that it was nothing strange that two senators in a Commonwealth should
disagree: he had himself been in the habit of opposing Thrasea. Most of
them laughed at the effrontery of such a comparison, though some were pleased
at the very circumstance of his having selected, not one of the most influential
men of the time, but Thrasea, as his model of true glory. 
[2.92] He had advanced to the command
of the Praetorian Guard Publius Sabinus, a prefect of the cohort, and Julius
Priscus, then only a centurion. It was through the influence of Caecina
and Valens that they respectively rose to power. Though always at variance,
these two men left no authority to Vitellius. The functions of Empire were
discharged by Caecina and Valens. They had long before been led to suspect
each other by animosities scarcely concealed amid the cares of the campaign
and the camp, and aggravated by unprincipled friends and a state of society
calculated to produce such feuds. In their struggles for popularity, in
their long retinues, and in the vast crowds at their levees, they vied
with each other and challenged comparison, while the favour of Vitellius
inclined first to one, and then to the other. There can never be complete
confidence in a power which is excessive. Vitellius himself, who was ever
varying between sudden irritation and unseasonable fondness, they at once
despised and feared. Still this had not made them less keen to seize on
palaces and gardens and all the wealth of the Empire, while a sad and needy
throng of nobles, whom with their children Galba had restored to their
country, received no relief from the compassion of the Emperor. By an edict
which gratified the leading men of the State, while it approved itself
even to the populace, Vitellius gave back to the returned exiles their
rights over their freedmen, although servile ingenuity sought in every
way to neutralise the boon, concealing money in quarters which either obscurity
or rank rendered secure. Some freedmen had made their way into the palace
of the Emperor, and thus became more powerful even than their patrons.

[2.93] Meanwhile the soldiers, as their
numbers overflowed the crowded camp, dispersed throughout the porticoes,
the temples, and the whole capital, did not know their own headquarters,
kept no watch, and ceased to brace themselves by toil. Amidst the allurements
of the city and all shameful excesses, they wasted their strength in idleness,
and their energies in riot. At last, reckless even of health, a large portion
of them quartered themselves in the notoriously pestilential neighbourhood
of the Vatican; hence ensued a great mortality in the ranks. The Tiber
was close at hand, and their extreme eagerness for the water and their
impatience of the heat weakened the constitutions of the Germans and Gauls,
always liable to disease. To make matters worse, the organisation of the
service was deranged by unprincipled intrigue and favour. Sixteen Praetorian
and four city cohorts were being raised, each to consist of a thousand
men. In this levy Valens ventured to do more than his rival on the pretence
of his having rescued Caecina himself from peril. Doubtless his arrival
had restored the fortunes of the party, and his victory had reversed the
unfavourable rumours occasioned by his tardy advance. The entire army too
of Lower Germany was attached to him; this circumstance, it is thought,
first made the allegiance of Caecina waver. 
[2.94] Much however as Vitellius indulged
his generals, his soldiers enjoyed yet greater licence. Every one chose
his own service. However unfit, he might, if he preferred it, be enrolled
among the soldiers of the capital. Soldiers again of good character were
allowed, if they so wished, to remain with the legions, or in the cavalry;
and this was the choice of many who were worn out with disease, or who
shrank from the unhealthiness of the climate. But the main strength of
the legions and cavalry was drafted from them, while the old glory of the
Praetorian camp was destroyed by these 20,000 men indiscriminately taken
rather than chosen out of the whole army. While Vitellius was haranguing
the troops, the men called out for the execution of Asiaticus, and of Flavius
and Rufinus, the Gallic chieftains, because they had fought for Vindex.
He never checked these cries; for to say nothing of the cowardice natural
to that feeble soul, he was aware that the distribution of a donative was
imminent, and, having no money, he lavished everything else on the soldiers.
A contribution in the form of a tax was exacted from the freedmen of former
Emperors in proportion to the number of their slaves. Vitellius himself,
thinking only how to squander, was building a stable for his charioteers,
was filling the circus with shows of gladiators and wild beasts, and fooling
away his money as if he had the most abundant supplies. 
[2.95] Moreover Caecina and Valens celebrated
the birthday of Vitellius by exhibiting in every quarter of the city shows
of gladiators on a vast and hitherto unparalleled scale. He pleased the
most infamous characters, but utterly disgusted all the respectable citizens,
by building altars in the Campus Martius, and performing funeral rites
to Nero. Victims were slaughtered and burnt in the name of the State; the
pile was kindled by the Augustales, an order of the priesthood dedicated
by the Emperor Tiberius to the Julian family, just as Romulus had dedicated
one to king Tatius. Within four months from the victory of Bedriacum, Asiaticus,
the Emperor's freedman, was rivalling the Polycleti, the Patrobii, and
all the old hateful names. No one sought promotion in that court by integrity
or diligence; the sole road to power was to glut the insatiable appetites
of Vitellius by prodigal entertainments, extravagance, and riot. The Emperor
himself, thinking it enough to enjoy the present, and without a thought
for the future, is believed to have squandered nine hundred million sesterces
in a very few months. Rome, as miserable as she was great, afflicted in
one year by an Otho and a Vitellius, what with the Vinii, the Fabii, the
Iceli, and the Asiatici, passed through all vicissitudes of infamy, till
there came Mucianus and Marcellus, and different men rather than a different
morality. 
[2.96] The first revolt of which Vitellius
received tidings was that of the 3rd legion, despatches having been sent
by Aponius Saturninus before he too attached himself to the party of Vespasian.
Aponius, however, agitated by the unexpected occurrence, had not written
all the particulars, and flattering friends softened down its import. "It
was," they said, "a mutiny of only a single legion; the loyalty
of the other armies was unshaken." Vitellius in addressing the soldiers
spoke to the same effect. He inveighed against the lately disbanded Praetorians,
and asserted that false rumours were circulated by them, and that there
was no fear of a civil war. The name of Vespasian he suppressed, and soldiers
were dispersed through the city to check the popular gossip. This more
than anything else kept these rumours alive. 
[2.97] Nevertheless Vitellius summoned
auxiliary troops from Germany, Britain, and Spain, tardily, however, and
with an attempt to conceal his necessities. The legates and the provinces
were equally slow. Hordeonius Flaccus, who was beginning to suspect the
Batavians, feared that he should have a war on his own hands, and Vettius
Bolanus had in Britain a province never very quiet; and both these officers
were wavering in their allegiance. Spain too, which then was without a
governor of consular rank, showed no alacrity. The legates of the three
legions, equal in authority, and ready, while Vitellius was prosperous,
to vie in obedience, stood aloof with one consent from his falling fortunes.
In Africa, the legion, and the auxiliary infantry levied by Clodius Macer
and soon after disbanded by Galba, again entered the service at the order
of Vitellius, while all the rest of the youth promptly gave in their names.
Vitellius had ruled that province as proconsul with integrity and popularity;
Vespasian's government had been infamous and odious. The allies formed
conjectures accordingly as to the manner in which each would reign, but
the result contradicted them. 
[2.98] At first Valerius Festus, the
legate, loyally seconded the zeal of the provincials. Soon he began to
waver, supporting Vitellius in his public dispatches and edicts, Vespasian
in his secret correspondence, and intending to hold by the one or the other
according as they might succeed. Some soldiers and centurions, coming through
Rhaetia and Gaul, were seized with letters and edicts from Vespasian, and
on being sent to Vitellius were put to death. More, however, eluded discovery,
escaping either through the faithful protection of friends or by their
own tact. Thus the preparations of Vitellius became known, while the plans
of Vespasian were for the most part kept secret. At first the supineness
of Vitellius was in fault; afterwards the occupation of the Pannonian Alps
with troops stopped all intelligence. And on the sea the prevalent Etesian
winds favoured an eastward voyage, but hindered all return. 
[2.99] At length Vitellius, appalled
by the irruption of the enemy and by the menacing intelligence from every
quarter, ordered Caecina and Valens to take the field. Caecina was sent
on in advance; Valens, who was just recovering from a severe illness, was
delayed by weakness. Far different was the appearance of the German army
as it marched out of the capital. All strength had departed from their
bodies, all energy from their spirits. Slowly, and with thin ranks, the
column moved along, their weapons feebly grasped, their horses spiritless.
The soldiers, impatient of the heat, the dust, and the weather, in proportion
as they were less capable of enduring toil, were more ready for mutiny.
All this was aggravated by the old vanity of Caecina, and by the indolence
that had of late crept over him; presuming on the excessive favour of fortune,
he had abandoned himself to luxury. Perhaps he meditated perfidy, and it
was part of his policy to enervate the courage of the army. Many believe
that his fidelity had been shaken by the suggestions of Flavius Sabinus,
who employed Rubrius Gallus as the bearer of communications intimating
that the conditions of desertion would be held binding by Vespasian. At
the same time he was reminded of his hatred and jealousy of Fabius Valens.
Being inferior to his rival in influence with Vitellius, he should seek
to secure favour and power with the new Emperor. 
[2.100] Caecina, having embraced Vitellius
and received tokens of high distinction, left him, and sent a detachment
of cavalry to occupy Cremona. It was followed by the veteran troops of
the 4th, 10th, and 16th legions, by the 5th and 22nd legions, and the rear
was brought up by the 21st (the Rapax) and the first Italian legion with
the veteran troops of three British legions, and a chosen body of auxiliaries.
After the departure of Caecina, Valens sent a despatch to the army which
had been under his own command with directions that it should wait for
him on the road; such, he said, was his arrangement with Caecina. Caecina,
however, being with the army in person, and consequently having greater
influence, pretended that this plan had been changed, so that the gathering
forces of the enemy might be met with their whole strength. Orders were
therefore given to the legions to advance with all speed upon Cremona,
while a portion of the force was to proceed to Hostilia. Caecina himself
turned aside to Ravenna, on the pretext that he wished to address the fleet.
Soon, however, he sought the retirement of Patavium, there to concert his
treachery. Lucilius Bassus, who had been promoted by Vitellius from the
command of a squadron of cavalry to be admiral of the fleets at Ravenna
and Misenum, failing immediately to obtain the command of the Praetorian
Guard sought to gratify his unreasonable resentment by an atrocious act
of perfidy. It cannot be certainly known whether he carried Caecina with
him, or whether (as is often the case with bad men, that they are like
each other) both were actuated by the same evil motives. 
[2.101] The historians of the period,
who during the ascendancy of the Flavian family composed the chronicles
of this war, have in the distorted representations of flattery assigned
as the motives of these men a regard for peace and a love of their country.
For my own part I believe that, to say nothing of a natural fickleness
and an honour which they must have held cheap after the betrayal of Galba,
feelings of rivalry, and jealousy lest others should outstrip them in the
favour of Vitellius, made them accomplish his ruin. Caecina, having overtaken
the legions, strove by every species of artifice to undermine the fidelity
of the centurions and soldiers, who were devoted to Vitellius. Bassus,
in making the same attempt, experienced less difficulty, for the fleet,
remembering how recently it had served in the cause of Otho, was ready
to change its allegiance. 
Book 3 - (September - December, A.D. 69)
[3.1] UNDER happier auspices and in a
more loyal spirit the Flavianist leaders were discussing the plans of the
campaign. They had assembled at Petovio, the winter-quarters of the 13th
legion. There they debated, whether they should blockade the passes of
the Pannonian Alps till the whole strength of their party should be gathered
in their rear, or whether it would be the more vigorous policy to close
with the enemy, and to contend for the possession of Italy. Those who thought
it advisable to wait for reinforcements, and to protract the campaign,
dwelt on the strength and reputation of the German legions. "Vitellius,"
they said, "has now joined them with the flower of the British army.
Our numbers are not even equal to those of the legions whom they lately
defeated; and the conquered, let them talk as fiercely as they will, lose
something of their courage. But, if we occupy meanwhile the passes of the
Alps, Mucianus will come up with the forces of the East. Vespasian has
in addition the command of the sea, his fleets, and provinces loyal to
his cause, in which he may collect the vast materials for what may be called
another war. A salutary delay will bring us new forces, while we shall
lose nothing of what we have." 
[3.2] In answer to this, Antonius Primus,
who was the most energetic promoter of the war, declared that prompt action
would be advantageous to themselves, and fatal to Vitellius. "Supineness,"
he said, "rather than confidence has grown upon the conquerors. They
are not even kept under arms or within camps. In every town of Italy, sunk
in sloth, formidable only to their entertainers, they have drunk of unaccustomed
pleasures with an eagerness equal to the rudeness of their former life.
They have been emasculated by the circus, the theatre, and the allurements
of the capital, or they are worn out with sickness. Yet even to these men,
if you give them time, their old vigour will return with the preparation
for war. Germany, whence their strength is drawn, is faraway; Britain is
separated only by a strait; the provinces of Gaul and Spain are near; on
either side they can find troops, horses, tribute; they have Italy itself,
and the resources of the capital, and, should they choose themselves to
take the offensive, they have two fleets, and the Illyrian sea open to
them. What good then will our mountain-passes do us? What will be the use
of having protracted the war into another summer? Where are we to find
in the meanwhile money and supplies? Why not rather avail ourselves of
the fact that the legions of Pannonia, which were cheated rather than vanquished,
are hastening to rise again for vengeance, and that the armies of Moesia
have brought us their unimpaired strength? If you reckon the number of
soldiers, rather than that of legions, we have greater strength, and no
vices, for our very humiliation has been most helpful to our discipline.
As for the cavalry, they were not vanquished even on that day; though the
fortune of war was against them, they penetrated the Vitellianist lines.
Two squadrons of Moesian and Pannonian cavalry then broke through the enemy;
now the united standards of sixteen squadrons will bury and overwhelm with
the crash and din and storm of their onset these horses and horsemen that
have forgotten how to fight. Unless any one hinders me, I who suggest will
execute the plan. You, whose fortune never suffered a reverse, may keep
back the legions; the light cohorts will be enough for me. Before long
you will hear that Italy has been opened, and the power of Vitellius shaken.
You will be delighted to follow, and to tread in the footsteps of victory."

[3.3] With flashing eyes, and in the
fierce tones that might be most widely heard (for the centurions and some
of the common soldiers had intruded themselves into the deliberations),
he poured out such a torrent of these and similar words, that he carried
away even the cautious and prudent, while the general voice of the multitude
extolled him as the one man, the one general in the army, and spurned the
inaction of the others. He had raised this reputation for himself at the
very first assembly, when, after Vespasian's letters had been read, he
had not, like many, used ambiguous language, on which he might put this
or that construction as might serve his purpose. It was seen that he openly
committed himself to the cause, and he had therefore greater weight with
the soldiers, as being associated with them in what was either their crime
or their glory. 
[3.4] Next to Primus in influence was
Cornelius Fuscus, the procurator. He also had been accustomed to inveigh
mercilessly against Vitellius, and had thus left himself no hope in the
event of defeat. T. Ampius Flavianus, disposed to caution by natural temperament
and advanced years, excited in the soldiers a suspicion that he still remembered
his relationship to Vitellius; and as he had fled when the movement in
the legions began, and had then voluntarily returned, it was believed that
he had sought an opportunity for treachery. Flavianus indeed had left Pannonia,
and had entered Italy, and was out of the way of danger, when his desire
for revolution urged him to resume the title of Legate, and to take part
in the civil strife. Cornelius Fuscus had advised him to this course, not
that he needed the talents of Flavianus, but wishing that a consular name
might clothe with its high prestige the very first movements of the party.

[3.5] Still, that the passage into Italy
might be safe and advantageous, directions were sent to Aponius Saturninus
to hasten up with the armies of Moesia. That the provinces might not be
exposed without defence to the barbarian tribes, the princes of the Sarmatae
Iazyges, who had in their hands the government of that nation, were enrolled
in the army. These chiefs also offered the service of their people, and
its force of cavalry, their only effective troops; but the offer was declined,
lest in the midst of civil strife they should attempt some hostile enterprise,
or, influenced by higher offers from other quarters, should cast off all
sense of right and duty. Sido and Italicus, kings of the Suevi, were brought
over to the cause. Their loyalty to the Roman people was of long standing,
and their nation was more faithful than the other to any trust reposed
in them. On the flank of the army were posted some auxiliaries, for Rhaetia
was hostile, Portius Septimius, the procurator, remaining incorruptibly
faithful to Vitellius. Accordingly, Sextilius Felix with Aurius' Horse,
eight cohorts, and the native levies of Noricum, was sent to occupy the
bank of the river Aenus, which flows between Rhaetia and Noricum. Neither
hazarded an engagement, and the fate of the two parties was decided elsewhere.

[3.6] Antonius, as he hurried with the
veteran soldiers of the cohorts and part of the cavalry to invade Italy,
was accompanied by Arrius Varus, an energetic soldier. Service under Corbulo,
and successes in Armenia, had gained for him this reputation; yet it was
generally said, that in secret conversations with Nero he had calumniated
Corbulo's high qualities. The favour thus infamously acquired made him
a centurion of the first rank, yet the ill-gotten prosperity of the moment
afterwards turned to his destruction. Primus and Varus, having occupied
Aquileia, were joyfully welcomed in the neighbourhood, and in the towns
of Opitergium and Altinum. At Altinum a force was left to oppose the Ravenna
fleet, the defection of which from Vitellius was not yet known. They next
attached to their party Patavium and Ateste. There they learnt that three
cohorts, belonging to Vitellius, and the Sebonian Horse had taken up a
position at the Forum Alieni, where they had thrown a bridge across the
river. It was determined to seize the opportunity of attacking this force,
unprepared as it was; for this fact had likewise been communicated. Coming
upon them at dawn, they killed many before they could arm. Orders had been
given to slay but few, and to constrain the rest by fear to transfer their
allegiance. Some indeed at once surrendered, but the greater part broke
down the bridge, and thus cut off the advance of the pursuing enemy. 
[3.7] When this success became known,
two legions, the seventh (Galba's) and the eighteenth (the Gemina), finding
the campaign opening in favour of the Flavianists, repaired with alacrity
to Patavium under the command of Vedius Aquila the legate. A few days were
there taken for rest, and Minucius Justus, prefect of the camp in the 7th
legion, who ruled with more strictness than a civil war will permit, was
withdrawn from the exasperated soldiery, and sent to Vespasian. An act
that had been long desired was taken by a flattering construction for more
than it was worth, when Antonius gave orders that the statues of Galba,
which had been thrown down during the troubles of the times, should be
restored in all the towns. It would, he supposed, reflect honour on the
cause, if it were thought that they had been friendly to Galba's rule,
and that his party was again rising into strength. 
[3.8] The next question was, what place
should be selected as the seat of war. Verona seemed the most eligible,
surrounded as it was with open plains, suitable for the action of cavalry,
in which they were very strong. At the same time it was thought that in
wresting from Vitellius a colony so rich in resources there would be both
profit and glory. They secured Vicetia by simply passing through it. Though
in itself a small gain, for the town is but of moderate strength, it was
considered an important advantage when they reflected that in this town
Caecina was born, and that the general of the enemy had lost his native
place. The people of Verona were a valuable aid; they served the cause
by the example of their zeal and by their wealth, and the army thus occupied
a position between Rhaetia and the Julian Alps. It was to cut off all passage
at this point from the armies of Germany that they had barred this route.
All this was done either without the knowledge, or against the commands
of Vespasian. He gave orders that the army should halt at Aquileia and
there await Mucianus; and these orders he supported by the argument, that
as Aegypt, which commanded the corn supplies, and the revenues of the wealthiest
provinces were in his hands, the army of Vitellius would be compelled to
capitulate from the want of pay and provisions. Mucianus in frequent letters
advised the same policy; a victory that should cost neither blood nor tears,
and other objects of the kind, were his pretexts; but in truth he was greedy
of glory, and anxious to keep the whole credit of the war to himself. Owing,
however, to the vast distances, the advice came only after the matter was
decided. 
[3.9] Then Antonius by a sudden movement
fell upon the outposts of the enemy, and made trial of their courage in
a slight skirmish, the combatants separating on equal terms. Soon afterwards,
Caecina strongly fortified a camp between Hostilia, a village belonging
to Verona, and the marshes of the river Tartarus, where his position was
secure, as his rear was covered by the river, and his flank by intervening
marshes. Had he only been loyal, those two legions, which had not been
joined by the army of Moesia, might have been crushed by the united strength
of the Vitellianists, or driven back and compelled to evacuate Italy in
a disgraceful retreat. Caecina, however, by various delays betrayed to
the enemy the early opportunities of the campaign, assailing by letters
those whom it was easy to drive out by force of arms, until by his envoys
he settled the conditions of his treachery. In this interval Aponius Saturninus
came up with the 7th legion (Claudius'). This legion was commanded by the
tribune Vipstanus Messalla, a man of illustrious family, himself highly
distinguished, the only man who had brought into that conflict an honest
purpose. To this army, which was far from equalling the forces of Vitellius
(it in fact consisted of three legions), Caecina despatched a letter reproaching
them with rashness in again drawing the sword in a vanquished cause. At
the same time he extolled the valour of the German army; of Vitellius he
made but some slight and common-place mention without any abuse of Vespasian.
Certainly he said nothing which could either seduce or terrify the enemy.
The leaders of the Flavianist party, omitting all apology for their former
fortune, at once took up a tone of high praise of Vespasian, of confidence
in their cause, of security as to their army, and of hostility to Vitellius,
while hopes were held out to the tribunes and centurions of retaining the
privileges which Vitellius had granted them, and Caecina was himself encouraged
in no ambiguous terms to change sides. These letters read to the assembled
army increased their confidence; for Caecina had written in a humble strain,
as if he feared to offend Vespasian, while their own generals had used
contemptuous language, meant, it would seem, to insult Vitellius. 
[3.10] On the subsequent arrival of
two legions, the third commanded by Dillius Aponianus, the eighth by Numisius
Lupus, it was resolved to make a demonstration of their strength, and to
surround Verona with military lines. It so happened that Galba's legion
had had their work allotted to them on that side the lines which faced
the enemy, and that some of the allied cavalry appearing in the distance
were taken for the enemy, and excited a groundless panic. They flew to
arms, and as the rage of the soldiers at the supposed treachery fell upon
T. Ampius Flavianus, not from any proof of his guilt, but because he had
been long unpopular, they clamoured for his death in a very whirlwind of
passion, vociferating that he was the kinsman of Vitellius, that he had
betrayed Otho, that he had embezzled the donative. He could get no opportunity
of defending himself, even though he stretched out his hands in entreaty,
repeatedly prostrating himself on the ground, his garments torn, his breast
and features convulsed with sobs. This very conduct provoked afresh these
furious men, for fear so excessive seemed to argue a consciousness of guilt.
Aponius was clamoured down by the shouts of the soldiers, when he attempted
to address them; every one else was repulsed with noisy cries. To Antonius
alone the soldiers' ears were open; for he had eloquence, the art of soothing
an angry crowd, and personal influence. As the mutiny grew fiercer, and
the soldiers went on from abuse and taunts to use their hands and their
weapons, he ordered that Flavianus should be put in irons. The soldiers
saw what a mockery it was, and pushing aside those who were guarding the
tribunal, were about to commit the most outrageous violence. Antonius threw
himself in the way with his sword drawn, protesting that he would die either
by the soldiers' hands or by his own; whenever he saw any one who was known
to him, or who was distinguished by any military decoration, he summoned
him by name to his assistance. Then he turned to the standards, and prayed
to the gods of war, that they would inspire the armies of the enemy, rather
than his own, with such madness and such strife. So the mutiny began to
abate, and at the close of the day the men dispersed to their tents. The
same night Flavianus set out, and being met by letters from Vespasian,
was relieved from his perilous position. 
[3.11] The legions had caught the infection
of mutiny, and next assailed Aponius Saturnius, legate of the army of Moesia,
this time the more furiously because their rage broke out, not as before,
when they were wearied with labour and military toils, but at mid-day.
Some letters had been published, which Saturninus was believed to have
written to Vitellius. If once they had emulated each other in valour and
obedience, so now there was a rivalry in insubordination and insolence,
till they clamoured as violently for the execution of Aponius as they had
for that of Flavianus. The legions of Moesia recalled how they had aided
the vengeance of the Pannonian army, while the soldiers of Pannonia, as
if they were absolved by the mutiny of others, took a delight in repeating
their fault. They hastened to the gardens in which Saturninus was passing
his time, and it was not the efforts of Primus Antonius, Aponianus, and
Messalla, though they exerted themselves to the uttermost, that saved him,
so much as the obscurity of the hiding-place in which he concealed himself,
for he was hidden in the furnace of some baths that happened to be out
of use. In a short time he gave up his lictors, and retired to Patavium.
After the departure of the two men of consular rank, all power and authority
over the two armies centred in Antonius alone, his colleagues giving way
to him, and the soldiers being strongly biased in his favour. There were
those who believed that both these mutinies were set on foot by the intrigues
of Antonius, in order that he might engross all the prizes of the war.

[3.12] Nor indeed was there less restlessness
among the partisans of Vitellius, who were distracted by yet more fatal
dissensions, springing, not from the suspicions of the common men, but
from the treachery of the generals. Lucilius Bassus, prefect of the Ravenna
fleet, finding that the troops wavered in purpose, from the fact that many
were natives of Dalmatia and Pannonia, provinces held for Vespasian, had
attached them to the Flavianist party. The night-time was chosen for accomplishing
the treason, because then, unknown to all the rest, the ringleaders alone
might assemble at head-quarters. Bassus, moved by shame, or perhaps by
fear, awaited the issue in his house. The captains of the triremes rushed
with a great outcry on the images of Vitellius; a few, who attempted to
resist, were cut down; the great majority, with the usual love of change,
were ready to join Vespasian. Then Bassus came forward and openly sanctioned
the movement. The fleet appointed Cornelius Fuscus to be prefect, and he
hastened to join them. Lucilius was put under honourable arrest, and conveyed
as far as Adria by the Liburnian ships; there he was thrown into prison
by Vivennius Rufinus, prefect of a squadron of cavalry, which was there
in garrison. His chains, however, were immediately struck off on the interference
of Hormus, one of the Emperor's freedmen, for he too ranked among the generals.

[3.13] On the revolt of the fleet becoming
known, Caecina called together to head-quarters, which he purposely selected
as being the most retired part of the camp, the chief centurions and some
few soldiers, while the rest were dispersed on various military duties.
Then he extolled the valour of Vespasian, and the strength of his party;
he told them that the fleet had changed sides, that they were straitened
for supplies, that Gaul and Spain were against them, that in the capital
there was nothing on which to rely, thus making the worst of everything
that concerned Vitellius. Then, the conspirators present setting the example,
and the rest being paralysed by the strangeness of the proceeding, he made
them swear allegiance to Vespasian. At the same time the images of Vitellius
were torn down, and persons were despatched to convey the intelligence
to Antonius. But when this treason became noised abroad throughout the
camp, when the soldiers, hurrying back to head-quarters, saw the name of
Vespasian written on the colours, and the images of Vitellius thrown upon
the ground, first there was a gloomy silence, then all their rage burst
out at once. "What," they cried, "has the glory of the army
of Germany fallen so low, that without a battle, even without a wound,
they should yield up hands ready bound and arms resigned to surrender?
What legions indeed are these against us? Only the conquered. The first
and the twelfth, the sole strength of the Othonianist army, are not there,
and even them we routed and crushed on these very plains, only that so
many thousands of armed men, like a herd of slaves for sale, might be given
as a present to the exile Antonius. Thus, forsooth, the adhesion of one
fleet would be worth eight legions. So it pleases Bassus and Caecina, after
robbing the Emperor of palaces, gardens, and money, to rob the soldiers
of their Emperor. But we, who have seen nothing of toil and bloodshed,
we, who must be contemptible even to the Flavianists, what shall we answer
to those who shall ask us of our victories and our defeats?" 
[3.14] Joining one and all in these
cries, by which each expressed his own vexation, they proceeded, following
the lead of the fifth legion, to replace the images of Vitellius, and to
put Caecina in irons. They elected to the command Fabius Fabullus, legate
of the fifth legion, and Cassius Longus, prefect of the camp; they massacred
the soldiers from three Liburnian ships, who happened to fall in their
way, but who were perfectly ignorant and innocent of these proceedings;
they then abandoned the camp, and, after breaking down the bridge, fell
back on Hostilia, and thence on Cremona, in order to effect a junction
with the two legions, the 1st Italica and the 21st Rapax, which, with a
portion of the cavalry, Caecina had sent on to occupy Cremona. 
[3.15] On this becoming known to Antonius,
he determined to attack the hostile armies, while they were still distracted
in feeling and divided in strength, before the generals could recover their
authority, and the soldiers their subordination along with that confidence
which would spring from the junction of the legions. He concluded indeed
that Fabius Valens had left the capital, and would hasten his march, on
hearing of the treason of Caecina; and Fabius was loyal to Vitellius, and
not without some military skill. At the same time he dreaded the approach
of a vast body of Germans by way of Rhaetia. Vitellius had also summoned
reinforcements from Britain, Gaul, and Spain, whose arms would have wasted
like a wide-spread pestilence, had not Antonius, fearful of this very danger,
hurried on an engagement, and thus secured his victory. He reached Bedriacum
with his whole army in two days' march from Verona. The next day, keeping
the legions to fortify the position, he sent the auxiliary infantry into
the territories of Cremona, ostensibly to collect supplies, really to imbue
the soldiery with a taste for the spoils of civil war. He himself advanced
with 4000 cavalry as far as the 8th milestone from Bedriacum, in order
that they might plunder with greater freedom. The scouts, as usual, took
a wider range. 
[3.16] It was almost eleven o'clock,
when a horseman arrived at full speed with the news, that the enemy were
approaching, that a small body was moving in front, but that the stir and
noise could be heard far and wide. While Antonius was deliberating as to
what was to be done, Arrius Varus, eager to do his best, charged with the
bravest of the cavalry, and drove back the Vitellianists, inflicting upon
them some slight loss; as more came up, the fortune of the day changed,
and those who had been most eager in the pursuit found themselves last
in the flight. This rash act did not originate with Antonius; he anticipated
in fact what actually happened. He now urged his soldiers to enter on the
battle with a good heart; he then drew off the squadrons of his cavalry
to the two flanks, leaving in the midst an open space in which to receive
Varus and his troopers; the legions were ordered to arm themselves, signals
were made over the country that every man should leave plundering, and
join the battle at the nearest point. Meanwhile the terror-stricken Varus
plunged into the disordered ranks of his friends, and brought a panic with
him. The fresh troops were driven back along with the wounded fugitives,
confused by their own alarm and by the difficulties of the road. 
[3.17] In the midst of this panic Antonius
omitted nothing that a self-possessed commander or a most intrepid soldier
could do. He threw himself before the terrified fugitives, he held back
those who were giving way, and wherever the struggle was hardest, wherever
there was a gleam of hope, there he was with his ready skill, his bold
hand, his encouraging voice, easily recognized by the enemy, and a conspicuous
object to his own men. At last he was carried to such a pitch of excitement,
that he transfixed with a lance a flying standard bearer, and then, seizing
the standard, turned it towards the enemy. Touched by the reproach, a few
troopers, not more than a hundred in number, made a stand. The locality
favoured them, for the road was at that point particularly narrow, while
the bridge over the stream which crossed it had been broken down, and the
stream itself, with its varying channel and its precipitous banks, checked
their flight. It was this necessity, or a happy chance, that restored the
fallen fortunes of the party. Forming themselves into strong and close
ranks, they received the attack of the Vitellianists, who were now imprudently
scattered. These were at once overthrown. Antonius pursued those that fled,
and crushed those that encountered him. Then came the rest of his troops,
who, as they were severally disposed, plundered, made prisoners, or seized
on weapons and horses. Roused by the shouts of triumph, those who had lately
been scattered in flight over the fields hastened to share in the victory.

[3.18] At the fourth milestone from
Cremona glittered the standards of two legions, the Italica and the Rapax,
which had been advanced as far as that point during the success achieved
by the first movement of their cavalry. But when fortune changed, they
would not open their ranks, nor receive the fugitives, nor advance and
themselves attack an enemy now exhausted by so protracted a pursuit and
conflict. Vanquished by accident, these men had never in their success
valued their general as much as they now in disaster felt his absence.
The victorious cavalry charged the wavering line; the tribune Vipstanus
Messalla followed with the auxiliary troops from Moesia, whom, though hurriedly
brought up, long service had made as good soldiers as the legionaries.
The horse and foot, thus mixed together, broke through the line of the
legions. The near neighbourhood of the fortifications of Cremona, while
it gave more hope of escape, diminished the vigour of their resistance.

[3.19] Antonius did not press forward,
for he thought of the fatigue and the wounds with which a battle so hard
fought, notwithstanding its successful termination, must have disabled
his cavalry and their horses. As the shadows of evening deepened the whole
strength of the Flavianist army came up. They advanced amid heaps of dead
and the traces of recent slaughter, and, as if the war was over, demanded
that they should advance to Cremona, and receive the capitulation of the
vanquished party, or take the place by storm. This was the motive alleged,
and it sounded well, but what every one said to himself was this: "The
colony, situated as it is on level ground, may be taken by assault. If
we attack under cover of darkness, we shall be at least as bold, and shall
enjoy more licence in plunder. If we wait for the light, we shall be met
with entreaties for peace, and in return for our toil and our wounds shall
receive only the empty satisfaction of clemency and praise, but the wealth
of Cremona will go into the purses of the legates and the prefects. The
soldiers have the plunder of a city that is stormed, the generals of one
which capitulates." The centurions and tribunes were spurned away;
that no man's voice might be heard, the troops clashed their weapons together,
ready to break through all discipline, unless they were led as they wished.

[3.20] Antonius then made his way into
the companies. When his presence and personal authority had restored silence,
he declared, "I would not snatch their glory or their reward from
those who have deserved them so well. Yet there is a division of duties
between the army and its generals. Eagerness for battle becomes the soldiers,
but generals serve the cause by forethought, by counsel, by delay oftener
than by temerity. As I promoted your victory to the utmost of my power
by my sword and by my personal exertions, so now I must help you by prudence
and by counsel, the qualities which belong peculiarly to a general. What
you will have to encounter is indeed perfectly plain. There will be the
darkness, the strange localities of the town, the enemy inside the walls,
and all possible facilities for ambuscades. Even if the gates were wide
open, we ought not to enter the place, except we had first reconnoitred
it, and in the day-time. Shall we set about storming the town when we have
no means seeing where the ground is level, what is the height of the walls,
whether the city is to be assailed by our artillery and javelins, or by
siege-works and covered approaches?" He then turned to individual
soldiers, asking them whether they had brought with them their axes and
spades and whatever else is used when towns are to be stormed. On their
admitting that they had not done so, "Can any hands," he answered,
"break through and undermine walls with swords and lances? And if
it should be found necessary to throw up an embankment and to shelter ourselves
under mantlets and hurdles, shall we stand baffled like a thoughtless mob,
marvelling at the height of the towers and at the enemy's defences? Shall
we not rather, by delaying one night, till our artillery and engines come
up, take with us a strength that must prevail?" At the same time he
sent the sutlers and camp-followers with the freshest of the cavalry to
Bedriacum to fetch supplies and whatever else they needed. 
[3.21] The soldiers, however, were impatient,
and a mutiny had almost broken out, when some cavalry, who had advanced
to the very walls of Cremona, seized some stragglers from the town, from
whose information it was ascertained, that the six legions of Vitellius
and the entire army which had been quartered at Hostilia had on that very
day marched a distance of thirty miles, and having heard of the defeat
of their comrades, were preparing for battle, and would soon be coming
up. This alarm opened the ears that had before been deaf to their general's
advice. The 13th legion was ordered to take up its position on the raised
causeway of the Via Postumia, supported on the left by the 7th (Galba's)
which was posted in the plain, next came the 7th (Claudius'), defended
in front by a field-ditch, such being the character of the ground. On the
right was the 8th legion, drawn up in an open space, and then the 3rd,
whose ranks were divided by some thick brushwood. Such was the arrangement
of the eagles and the standards. The soldiers were mingled in the darkness
as accident had determined. The Praetorian colours were close to the 3rd
legion; the auxiliary infantry were stationed on the wings; the cavalry
covered the flanks and the rear. Sido and Italicus, the Suevian chieftains,
with a picked body of their countrymen, manoeuvred in the van. 
[3.22] It would have been the best policy
for the army of Vitellius to rest at Cremona, and, with strength recruited
by food and repose, to attack and crush the next day an enemy exhausted
by cold and hunger; but now, wanting a leader, and having no settled plan,
they came into collision about nine o'clock at night with the Flavianist
troops, who stood ready, and in order of battle. Respecting the disposition
of the Vitellianist army, disordered as it was by its fury and by the darkness,
I would not venture to speak positively. Some, however, have related, that
on the right wing was the 4th legion (the Macedonian); that the 5th and
15th, with the veterans of three British legions (the 9th, 2nd, and 20th),
formed the centre, while the left wing was made up of the 1st, the 16th,
and the 22nd. Men of the legions Rapax and Italica were mingled with all
the companies. The cavalry and the auxiliaries chose their position themselves.
Throughout the night the battle raged in many forms, indecisive and fierce,
destructive, first to one side, then to the other. Courage, strength, even
the eye with its keenest sight, were of no avail. Both armies fought with
the same weapons; the watch-word, continually asked, became known; the
colours were confused together, as parties of combatants snatched them
from the enemy, and hurried them in this or that direction. The 7th legion,
recently levied by Galba, was the hardest pressed. Six centurions of the
first rank were killed, and some of the standards taken; but the eagle
was saved by Atilius Verus, the centurion of the first company, who, after
making a great slaughter among the enemy, at last fell. 
[3.23] The line was supported, as it
began to waver, by Antonius, who brought up the Praetorians. They took
up the conflict, repulsed the enemy, and were then themselves repulsed.
The troops of Vitellius had collected their artillery on the raised causeway,
where there was a free and open space for the discharge of the missiles,
which at first had been scattered at random, and had struck against the
trees without injury to the enemy. An engine of remarkable size, belonging
to the 15th legion, was crushing the hostile ranks with huge stones, and
would have spread destruction far and wide, had not two soldiers ventured
on a deed of surpassing bravery. Disguising themselves with shields snatched
from the midst of the carnage, they cut the ropes and springs of the engine.
They were instantly slain, and their names have consequently been lost;
but the fact is undoubted. Fortune favoured neither side, till at a late
hour of the night the moon rose and showed, but showed deceptively, both
armies. The light, however, shining from behind, favoured the Flavianists.
With them a lengthened shadow fell from men and horses, and the enemy's
missiles, incorrectly aimed at what seemed the substance, fell short, while
the Vitellianists, who had the light shining on their faces, were unconsciously
exposed to an enemy who were, so to speak, concealed while they aimed.

[3.24] As soon as Antonius could recognize
his men and be recognized by them, he sought to kindle their courage, striving
to shame some with his reproaches, stirring many with praise and encouragement,
and all with hopes and promises. "Why," he demanded of the legions
of Pannonia, "have you again taken up arms? Yonder is the field where
you may wipe out the stain of past disgrace, and redeem your honour."
Then turning to the troops of Moesia, he appealed to them as the authors
and originators of the war. "Idly," he said "have you challenged
the Vitellianists with threatening words, if you cannot abide their attack
or even their looks." So he spoke to each as he approached them. The
third legion he addressed at greater length, reminding them of old and
recent achievements, how under Marcus Antonius they had defeated the Parthians,
under Corbulo the Armenians, and had lately discomfited the Sarmatians.
Then angrily turning to the Praetorians, "Clowns," said he, "unless
you are victorious, what other general, what other camp will receive you?
There are your colours and your arms; defeat is death, for disgrace you
have exhausted." A shout was raised on all sides, and the soldiers
of the third legion saluted, as is the custom in Syria, the rising sun.

[3.25] A vague rumour thus arose, or
was intentionally suggested by the general, that Mucianus had arrived,
and that the two armies had exchanged salutations. The men then charged
as confidently as if they had been strengthened by fresh reinforcements,
while the enemy's array was now less compact; for, as there was no one
to command, it was now contracted, now extended, as the courage or fear
of individual soldiers might prompt. Antonius, seeing that they gave way,
charged them with a heavy column; the loose ranks were at once broken,
and, entangled as they were among their wagons and artillery, could not
be re-formed. The conquerors, in the eagerness of pursuit, dispersed themselves
over the entire line of road. The slaughter that followed was made particularly
memorable through the murder of a father by his son. I will record the
incident with the names, on the authority of Vipstanus Messalla. Julius
Mansuetus, a Spaniard, enlisting in the legion Rapax, had left at home
a son of tender age. The lad grew up to manhood, and was enrolled by Galba
in the 7th legion. Now chancing to meet his father, he brought him to the
ground with a wound, and, as he rifled his dying foe, recognized him, and
was himself recognized. Clasping the expiring man in his arms, in piteous
accents he implored the spirit of his father to be propitious to him, and
not to turn from him with loathing as from a parricide. "This guilt,"
he said, "is shared by all; how small a part of a civil war is a single
soldier!" With these words he raised the body, opened a grave, and
discharged the last duties for his father. This was noticed by those who
were on the spot, then by many others; astonishment and indignation ran
through the whole army, and they cursed this most horrible war. Yet as
eagerly as ever they stripped the bodies of slaughtered kinsfolk, connexions,
and brothers. They talk of an impious act having been done, and they do
it themselves. 
[3.26] When they reached Cremona a fresh
work of vast difficulty presented itself. During the war with Otho the
legions of Germany had formed their camp round the walls of the city, round
this camp had drawn an entrenchment, and had again strengthened these defences.
At this sight the victorious army hesitated, while the generals doubted
what orders they should give. To attempt an assault with troops exhausted
by the toil of a day and a night would be difficult, and with no proper
reserves might be perilous. Should they return to Bedriacum, the fatigue
of so long a march would be insupportable, and their victory would result
in nothing. To entrench a camp with the enemy so close at hand would be
dangerous, as by a sudden sortie they might cause confusion among them
while dispersed and busied with the work. Above all, they were afraid of
their soldiers, who were more patient of danger than delay. Cautious measures
they disliked; their rashness inspired them with hope, and eagerness for
plunder outweighed all the horrors of carnage, wounds, and bloodshed. 
[3.27] Antonius himself was this way
inclined, and he ordered the entrenched camp to be invested. At first they
fought from a distance with arrows and stones, the Flavianists suffering
most, as the enemy's missiles were aimed at them from a superior height.
Antonius then assigned to each legion the attack on some portion of the
entrenchments, and on one particular gate, seeking by this division of
labour to distinguish the cowardly from the brave, and to stimulate his
men by an honourable rivalry. The 3rd and 7th legions took up a position
close to the road from Bedriacum; more to the right of the entrenchments
were stationed the 8th and the 7th (Claudius'). The 13th were carried by
the impetuosity of their attack as far as the gate looking towards Brixia.
There ensued a little delay, while from the neighbouring fields some were
collecting spades and pickaxes, others hooks and ladders. Then raising
their shields over their heads, they advanced to the rampart in a dense
"testudo." Both used the arts of Roman warfare; the Vitellianists
rolled down ponderous stones, and drove spears and long poles into the
broken and tottering "testudo," till the dense array of shields
was loosened, and the ground was strewn with a vast number of lifeless
and mangled bodies. 
[3.28] Some hesitation had shewn itself,
when the generals, seeing that the weary troops would not listen to what
seemed to them unmeaning encouragement, pointed to Cremona. Whether this
was, as Messalla relates, the device of Hormus, or whether Caius Plinius
be the better authority when he charges it upon Antonius, I cannot easily
determine. All I can say is this, that neither in Antonius nor in Hormus
would this foulest of crimes have been a degeneracy from the character
of their former lives. Wounds or bloodshed no longer kept the men back
from undermining the rampart and battering the gates. Supported on the
shoulders of comrades, and forming a second "testudo," they clambered
up and seized the weapons and even the hands of the enemy. The unhurt and
the wounded, the half-dead and the dying, were mingled together with every
incident of slaughter and death in every form. 
[3.29] The fiercest struggle was maintained
by the 3rd and 7th legions, and Antonius in person with some chosen auxiliaries
concentrated his efforts on the same point. The Vitellianists, unable to
resist the combined and resolute attack, and finding that their missiles
glided off the "testudo," at last threw the engine itself on
the assailants; for a moment it broke and overwhelmed those on whom it
fell, but it drew after it in its fall the battlements and upper part of
the rampart. At the same time an adjoining tower yielded to the volleys
of stones, and, while the 7th legion in wedge-like array was endeavouring
to force an entrance, the 3rd broke down the gate with axes and swords.
All authors are agreed that Caius Volusius, a soldier of the 3rd legion,
entered first. Beating down all who opposed him, he mounted the rampart,
waved his hand, and shouted aloud that the camp was taken. The rest of
the legion burst in, while the troops of Vitellius were seized with panic,
and threw themselves from the rampart. The entire space between the camp
and the walls of Cremona was filled with slain. 
[3.30] Difficulties of another kind
presented themselves in the lofty walls of the town, its stone towers,
its iron-barred gates, in the garrison who stood brandishing their weapons,
in its numerous population devoted to the interests of Vitellius, and in
the vast conflux from all parts of Italy which had assembled at the fair
regularly held at that time. The besieged found a source of strength in
these large numbers; the assailants an incentive in the prospect of booty.
Antonius gave orders that fire should instantly be set to the finest buildings
without the city, to see whether the inhabitants of Cremona might not be
induced by the loss of their property to transfer their allegiance. Some
houses near the walls, which overtopped the fortifications, he filled with
the bravest of his soldiers, who, by hurling beams, tiles, and flaming
missiles, dislodged the defenders from the ramparts. 
[3.31] The legions now began to form
themselves into a "testudo," and the other troops to discharge
volleys of stones and darts, when the courage of the Vitellianists began
to flag. The higher their rank, the more readily they succumbed to fortune,
fearing that when Cremona had fallen quarter could no longer be expected,
and that all the fury of the conqueror would be turned, not on the penniless
crowd, but on the tribunes and centurions, by whose slaughter something
was to be gained. The common soldiers, careless of the future and safer
in their obscurity, still held out. Roaming through the streets or concealed
in the houses, they would not sue for peace even when they had abandoned
the contest. The principal officers of the camp removed the name and images
of Vitellius; Caecina, who was still in confinement, they released from
his chains, imploring him to plead their cause. When he haughtily rejected
their suit, they entreated him with tears; and it was indeed the last aggravation
of misery, that many valiant men should invoke the aid of a traitor. Then
they displayed from the walls the olive branches and chaplets of suppliants,
and when Antonius had ordered that the discharge of missiles should cease,
they brought out the eagles and standards. Then followed, with eyes bent
on the ground, a dismal array of unarmed men. The conquerors had gathered
round; at first they heaped reproaches on them and pointed at them their
weapons; then seeing how they offered their cheeks to insulting blows,
how, with all their high spirit departed, they submitted, as vanquished
men, to every indignity, it suddenly occurred to their recollection, that
these were the very soldiers who but shortly before had used with moderation
their victory at Bedriacum. Yet, when Caecina the consul, conspicuous in
his robes of state and with his train of lictors, came forward thrusting
aside the crowd, the victors were fired with indignation, and reproached
him with his tyranny, his cruelty, and, so hateful are such crimes, even
with his treason. Antonius checked them, gave him an escort, and sent him
to Vespasian. 
[3.32] Meanwhile the population of Cremona
was roughly handled by the soldiers, who were just beginning a massacre,
when their fury was mitigated by the entreaties of the generals. Antonius
summoned them to an assembly, extolled the conquerors, spoke kindly to
the conquered, but said nothing either way of Cremona. Over and above the
innate love of plunder, there was an old feud which made the army bent
on the destruction of the inhabitants. It was generally believed that in
the war with Otho, as well as in the present, they had supported the cause
of Vitellius. Afterwards, when the 13th legion had been left to build an
amphitheatre, with the characteristic insolence of a city population, they
had wantonly provoked and insulted them. The ill-feeling had been aggravated
by the gladiatorial show exhibited there by Caecina, by the circumstance
that their city was now for the second time the seat of war, and by the
fact that they had supplied the Vitellianists with provisions in the field,
and that some of their women, taken by party-zeal into the battle, had
there been slain. The occurrence of the fair filled the colony, rich as
it always was, with an appearance of still greater wealth. The other generals
were unnoticed; Antonius from his success and high reputation was observed
of all. He had hastened to the baths to wash off the blood; and when he
found fault with the temperature of the water, an answer was heard, "that
it would soon be warm enough. Thus the words of a slave brought on him
the whole odium of having given the signal for firing the town, which was
indeed already in flames. 
[3.33] Forty thousand armed men burst
into Cremona, and with them a body of sutlers and camp-followers, yet more
numerous and yet more abandoned to lust and cruelty. Neither age nor rank
were any protection from indiscriminate slaughter and violation. Aged men
and women past their prime, worthless as booty, were dragged about in wanton
insult. Did a grown up maiden or youth of marked beauty fall in their way,
they were torn in pieces by the violent hands of ravishers; and in the
end the destroyers themselves were provoked into mutual slaughter. Men,
as they carried off for themselves coin or temple-offerings of massive
gold, were cut down by others of superior strength. Some, scorning what
met the eye, searched for hidden wealth, and dug up buried treasures, applying
the scourge and the torture to the owners. In their hands were flaming
torches, which, as soon as they had carried out the spoil, they wantonly
hurled into the gutted houses and plundered temples. In an army which included
such varieties of language and character, an army comprising Roman citizens,
allies, and foreigners, there was every kind of lust, each had a law of
his own, and nothing was forbidden. For four days Cremona satisfied the
plunderers. When all things else, sacred and profane, were settling down
into the flames, the temple of Mephitis outside the walls alone remained
standing, saved by its situation or by divine interposition. 
[3.34] Such was the end of Cremona,
286 years after its foundation. It was built in the consulship of Tiberius
Sempronius and Cornelius Scipio, when Hannibal was threatening Italy, as
a protection against the Gauls from beyond the Padus, or against any other
sudden invader from the Alps. From the number of settlers, the conveniences
afforded by the rivers, the fertility of the soil, and the many connexions
and intermarriages formed with neighbouring nations, it grew and flourished,
unharmed by foreign enemies, though most unfortunate in civil wars. Ashamed
of the atrocious deed, and aware of the detestation which it was inspiring,
Antonius issued a proclamation, that no one should detain in captivity
a citizen of Cremona. The spoil indeed had been rendered valueless to the
soldiers by a general agreement throughout Italy, which rejected with loathing
the purchase of such slaves. A massacre then began; when this was known,
the prisoners were secretly ransomed by their friends and relatives. The
remaining inhabitants soon returned to Cremona; the temples and squares
were restored by the munificence of the burghers, and Vespasian gave his
exhortations. 
[3.35] The soil poisoned with blood
forbade the enemy to remain long by the ruins of the buried city. They
advanced to the third milestone, and gathered the dispersed and panic-stricken
Vitellianists round their proper standards. The vanquished legions were
then scattered throughout Illyricum; for civil war was not over, and they
might play a doubtful part. Messengers carrying news of the victory were
then despatched to Britain and to Spain. Julius Calenus, a tribune, was
sent to Gaul, and Alpinius Montanus, prefect of a cohort, to Germany; as
the one was an Aeduan, the other a Trever, and both were Vitellianists,
they would be a proof of the success. At the same time the passes of the
Alps were occupied with troops, for it was suspected that Germany was arming
itself to support Vitellius. 
[3.36] A few days after the departure
of Caecina, Vitellius had hurried Fabius Valens to the seat of war, and
was now seeking to hide his apprehensions from himself by indulgence. He
made no military preparation; he did not seek to invigorate the soldiers
by encouraging speeches or warlike exercises; he did not keep himself before
the eyes of the people. Buried in the shades of his gardens, like those
sluggish animals which, if you supply them with food, lie motionless and
torpid, he had dismissed with the same forgetfulness the past, the present,
and the future. While he thus lay wasting his powers in sloth among the
woods of Aricia, he was startled by the treachery of Lucilius Bassus and
the defection of the fleet at Ravenna. Then came the news about Caecina,
and he heard with a satisfaction mingled with distress, first, that he
had revolted, and then, that he had been put in irons by the army. In that
dull soul joy was more powerful than apprehension. In great exultation
he returned to Rome, and before a crowded assembly of the people heaped
praises on the dutiful obedience of the soldiers. He ordered Publius Sabinus,
prefect of the Praetorian Guard, to be thrown into prison, because of his
friendship with Caecina, and substituted in his place Alfenius Varus. 
[3.37] He then addressed the Senate
in a speech of studied grandiloquence, and was extolled by the Senators
with elaborate adulation. A savage resolution against Caecina was moved
by Lucius Vitellius; the rest affected indignation at the idea that a consul
had betrayed the State, a general his Emperor, a man loaded with wealth
so vast and honours so numerous his benefactor, and seemed to deplore the
wrongs of Vitellius, while they uttered their private griefs. Not a word
from any one of them disparaged the Flavianist leaders; they censured the
delusion and recklessness of the armies, and with a prudent circumlocution
avoided the name of Vespasian. A man was found, who, while all regarded
with great contempt both giver and receiver, wormed himself by flattery
into the one day of office which remained to complete the consulate of
Caecina. On the last day of October Rosius Regulus both assumed and resigned
the office. The learned remarked that never before had a new consul been
elected without a formal act of deprivation and the passing of a law. Before
this indeed Caninius Rebilus had been consul for a single day during the
dictatorship of Caius Caesar, when the prizes of the civil war had to be
enjoyed in haste. 
[3.38] At this time the murder of Junius
Blaesus obtained an infamous notoriety. Of this act I have heard the following
account. Vitellius, who was suffering from severe illness, observed from
the Servilian gardens a neighbouring turret brilliantly illuminated throughout
the night. Inquiring the cause, he was told that Caecina Tuscus was entertaining
a large party, of whom Junius Blaesus was the most distinguished. Other
particulars were given with much exaggeration about the splendour of the
banquet and the unrestrained gaiety of the guests. There were persons who
charged Tuscus and his guests, and Blaesus more vindictively than any,
with passing their days in merriment while the Emperor was sick. As soon
as it was sufficiently clear to those who keenly watch the angry moods
of princes, that Vitellius was exasperated, and that Blaesus might be destroyed,
the part of the informer was intrusted to Lucius Vitellius. An unworthy
jealousy made him the enemy of Blaesus, whose illustrious character raised
him far above one who was stained with every infamy; he burst into the
Imperial chamber, and clasping to his bosom the Emperor's son, fell at
his knees. On Vitellius enquiring the cause of his emotion: "It is
not," he replied, "from any private apprehension, or because
I am anxious for myself; it is for a brother and for a brother's children
that I have come hither with my prayers and tears. It is idle to fear Vespasian,
when there are so many legions of Germany, so many provinces with their
valour and their loyalty, and lastly, so vast an extent of sea and land
with enormous distances, to keep him from us. In the capital, in the very
bosom of the empire, there is the foe of whom we must beware, a foe who
boasts of Junii and Antonii among his ancestors, who, claiming an Imperial
descent, displays to soldiers his condescension and his magnificence. On
him all thoughts are fixed, while Vitellius, regardless alike of friends
and foes, is cherishing a rival, who from his banqueting table gazes at
the sufferings of his sovereign. For such ill-timed mirth let him be recompensed
with a night of sorrow and of death, that he may know and feel that Vitellius
still lives and reigns, and has a son, if in the course of destiny anything
should happen to himself." 
[3.39] Vitellius, after wavering between
his guilty purpose and his fears, dreading lest to postpone the murder
of Blaesus might hasten his own ruin, while openly to order it might provoke
terrible odium, determined to destroy him by poison. He gave a proof of
his guilt by his marked joy when he visited Blaesus. He was even heard
to utter a most brutal speech, in which (I will relate the very words)
he boasted that he had feasted his eyes on the spectacle of his enemy's
death. Besides his noble birth and refinement of character, Blaesus was
a man of resolute loyalty. In the flourishing days of the party, when canvassed
by Caecina and the leading men, who were beginning to despise Vitellius,
he persevered in rejecting their solicitations. A righteous man and a lover
of peace, who coveted no sudden elevation, much less the throne, he could
not escape being thought to deserve it. 
[3.40] Meanwhile Fabius Valens, who
was moving along with a vast and luxurious train of concubines and eunuchs
too tardily for a general about to take the field, received speedy intelligence
of the betrayal of the Ravenna fleet by Lucilius Bassus. Had he hastened
the march which he had then begun, he might have come up with Caecina while
still undecided, or have reached the legions previous to the decisive action.
Some advised him to take a few of his most devoted soldiers, and, avoiding
Ravenna, to hurry on by unfrequented paths to Hostilia or Cremona. Others
thought that he should summon the Praetorian cohorts from Rome, and then
force his way with a strong body of troops. But with a ruinous delay he
wasted in deliberation the opportunities of action. Eventually he rejected
both plans, and did what is the very worst thing in circumstances of peril,
attempted a middle course, and was neither bold enough on the one hand,
nor cautious enough on the other. 
[3.41] He wrote to Vitellius asking
for aid. Three cohorts with some British cavalry arrived, a force too numerous
to elude observation, too small to force its way. Even amidst such perils
Valens could not keep himself clear of the infamous reputation of grasping
at unlawful gratifications and polluting the houses of his hosts with intrigue
and violation. He had power, he had money, and he indulged the lusts that
are the last solace of desperate fortunes. At length on the arrival of
the infantry and cavalry the folly of his plans became evident. With so
small a force, even had it been thoroughly loyal, he could not have made
his way through the enemy, and the loyalty they had brought with them was
not beyond suspicion. Yet shame and respect for the presence of their general
held them in check, no lasting restraint with men who loved danger and
were careless of disgrace. Moved by this apprehension, Valens, while he
retained a few attendants whom adversity had not changed, sent on the infantry
to Ariminum and ordered the cavalry to cover his rear. He then himself
made his way to Umbria, and thence to Etruria, where, having learnt the
issue of the battle of Cremona, he conceived a plan not wanting in vigour,
and which, had it succeeded, would have had terrible results. This was
to seize some ships, to land on some part of Gallia Narbonensis, to rouse
Gaul with its armies as well as the tribes of Germany, and so to kindle
a fresh war. 
[3.42] The garrison of Ariminum were
discouraged by the departure of Valens, and Cornelius Fuscus, bringing
up his army and disposing his Liburnian ships at the nearest points of
the shore, invested the place by sea and land. His troops occupied the
plains of Umbria and that portion of the Picentine territory that is washed
by the Adriatic, and now the whole of Italy was divided by the range of
the Apennines between Vespasian and Vitellius. Valens, having started from
the bay of Pisa, was compelled, either by a calm or a contrary wind, to
put in at the port of Hercules Monoecus. Near this place was stationed
Marius Maturus, procurator of the Maritime Alps, who was loyal to Vitellius,
and who, though everything around him was hostile, had not yet thrown off
his allegiance. While courteously receiving Valens, he deterred him by
his advice from rashly invading Gallia Narbonensis. And now the fidelity
of the rest of the party was weakened by their fears. In fact the procurator
Valerius Paullinus, an enterprising officer, who had been a friend of Vespasian
before his elevation to the throne, had made the neighbouring States swear
allegiance to that Prince. 
[3.43] Paullinus had collected all the
troops who, having been disbanded by Vitellius, were now spontaneously
taking up arms, and was holding with this force the colony of Forum Julii,
which commanded the sea. His influence was all the greater, because Forum
Julii was his native place, and because he was respected by the Praetorians,
in which force he had once been a tribune. The inhabitants themselves,
favouring a fellow-townsman, and anticipating his future greatness, did
their best to promote the cause. When these preparations, which were really
formidable and were exaggerated by report, became known among the now distracted
Vitellianists, Fabius Valens returned to his ships with four soldiers of
the body-guard, three personal friends, and as many centurions, while Maturus
and the rest chose to remain behind and swear allegiance to Vespasian.
For Valens indeed the open sea was safer than the coast or the towns, yet,
all uncertain about the future, and knowing rather what he must avoid than
what he could trust, he was thrown by adverse weather on the Stoechades,
islands off Massilia. There he was captured by some Liburnian ships, dispatched
by Paullinus. 
[3.44] Valens once captured, everything
turned to swell the resources of the conqueror; the lead was taken in Spain
by the 1st legion (the "Adjutrix"), whose recollections of Otho
made them hate Vitellius; they drew with them the 6th and 10th. Gaul did
not hesitate to follow. A partiality long felt in Britain for Vespasian,
who had there commanded the 2nd legion by the appointment of Claudius,
and had served with distinction, attached that province to his cause, though
not without some commotion among the other legions, in which were many
centurions and soldiers promoted by Vitellius, who felt uneasy in exchanging
for another ruler one whom they knew already. 
[3.45] These dissensions, and the continual
rumours of civil war, raised the courage of the Britons. They were led
by one Venutius, who, besides being naturally high spirited, and hating
the name of Rome, was fired by his private animosity against Queen Cartismandua.
Cartismandua ruled the Brigantes in virtue of her illustrious birth; and
she strengthened her throne, when, by the treacherous capture of king Caractacus,
she was regarded as having given its chief distinction to the triumph of
Claudius Caesar. Then followed wealth and the self-indulgence of prosperity.
Spurning her husband Venutius, she made Vellocatus, his armour-bearer,
the partner of her bed and throne. By this enormity the power of her house
was at once shaken to its base. On the side of the husband were the affections
of the people, on that of the adulterer, the lust and savage temper of
the Queen. Accordingly Venutius collected some auxiliaries, and, aided
at the same time by a revolt of the Brigantes, brought Cartismandua into
the utmost peril. She asked for some Roman troops, and our auxiliary infantry
and cavalry, after fighting with various success, contrived to rescue the
Queen from her peril. Venutius retained the kingdom, and we had the war
on our hands. 
[3.46] About the same time, Germany
suffered from the supineness of our generals and the mutinous conduct of
our legions; the assaults of enemies and the perfidy of allies all but
overthrew the power of Rome. Of this war, its origin and its issue, for
it lasted long, I shall hereafter speak. The Dacians also were in motion,
a people which never can be trusted, and which, now that our legions were
withdrawn from Moesia, had nothing to fear. They quietly watched the opening
of the campaign, but when they heard that Italy was in a blaze of war,
and that the whole Empire was divided against itself, they stormed the
winter quarters of the auxiliary infantry and cavalry, and occupied both
banks of the Danube. They were then preparing to destroy the camp of the
legions, but Mucianus sent the 6th legion against them, for he knew of
the victory of Cremona, and he feared this double pressure of barbarian
power with Dacians and Germans invading Italy from opposite sides. We were
helped, as often before, by the good fortune of the Roman people, which
brought to the spot Mucianus with the armies of the East, and by the decisive
settlement which in the meantime was effected at Cremona. Fonteius Agrippa
was removed from Asia (which province he had governed as proconsul for
a year) to Moesia, and had some troops given him from the army of Vitellius.
That this army should be dispersed through the provinces and closely occupied
with foreign wars, was sound policy and essential to peace. 
[3.47] All other nations were equally
restless. A sudden outbreak had been excited in Pontus by a barbarian slave,
who had before commanded the royal fleet. This was Anicetus, a freedman
of Polemon, once a very powerful personage, who, when the kingdom was converted
into a Roman province, ill brooked the change. Accordingly he raised in
the name of Vitellius the tribes that border on Pontus, bribed a number
of very needy adventurers by the hope of plunder, and, at the head of a
force by no means contemptible, made a sudden attack on the old and famous
city of Trapezus, founded by the Greeks on the farthest shore of the Pontus.
There he destroyed a cohort, once a part of the royal contingent. They
had afterwards received the privileges of citizenship, and while they carried
their arms and banners in Roman fashion, they still retained the indolence
and licence of the Greek. Anicetus also set fire to the fleet, and, as
the sea was not guarded, escaped, for Mucianus had brought up to Byzantium
the best of the Liburnian ships and all the troops. The barbarians even
insolently scoured the sea in hastily constructed vessels of their own
called "camarae," built with narrow sides and broad bottoms,
and joined together without fastenings of brass or iron. Whenever the water
is rough they raise the bulwarks with additional planks according to the
increasing height of the waves, till the vessel is covered in like a house.
Thus they roll about amid the billows, and, as they have a prow at both
extremities alike and a convertible arrangement of oars, they may be paddled
in one direction or another indifferently and without risk. 
[3.48] The matter attracted the attention
of Vespasian, and induced him to dispatch some veterans from the legions
under Virdius Geminus, a tried soldier. Finding the enemy in disorder and
dispersed in the eager pursuit of plunder, he attacked them, and drove
them to their ships. Hastily fitting out a fleet of Liburnian ships he
pursued Anicetus, and overtook him at the mouth of the river Cohibus, where
he was protected by the king of the Sedochezi, whose alliance he had secured
by a sum of money and other presents. This prince at first endeavoured
to protect the suppliant by a threat of hostilities; when, however, the
choice was presented to him between war and the profit to be derived from
treachery, he consented, with the characteristic perfidy of barbarians,
to the destruction of Anicetus, and delivered up the refugees. So ended
this servile war. Amidst the joy of this success, while everything was
prosperous beyond his hopes, tidings of the victory of Cremona reached
Vespasian in Aegypt. This made him hasten his advance to Alexandria, for,
now that the army of Vitellius was shattered, he sought to apply the pressure
of famine to the capital, which is always dependent on foreign supplies.
He was indeed also preparing to invade by sea and land the province of
Africa, which lies on the same line of coast, intending by thus closing
the supplies of corn to cause famine and dissension among the enemy. 
[3.49] While with this world-wide convulsion
the Imperial power was changing hands, the conduct of Primus Antonius,
after the fall of Cremona, was by no means as blameless as before. Either
he believed that the necessities of the war had been satisfied, and that
all else would follow easily, or, perhaps, success, working on such a temperament,
developed his latent pride, rapacity and other vices. He swept through
Italy as if it were a conquered country and caressed the legions as if
they were his own; by all his words and acts he sought to pave for himself
the way to power. To imbue the army with a spirit of licence, he offered
to the legions the commissions of the centurions killed in the war. By
their vote the most turbulent men were elected. The soldiers in fact were
not under the control of the generals, but the generals were themselves
constrained to follow the furious impulses of the soldiers. These mutinous
proceedings, so ruinous to discipline, Antonius soon turned to his own
profit, regardless of the near approach of Mucianus, a neglect more fatal
than any contempt for Vespasian. 
[3.50] As winter was approaching, and
the low country was flooded by the Padus, the army marched on without its
heavy baggage. The standards and eagles of the victorious legions, the
old and wounded soldiers, and even many effective men, were left at Verona.
The auxiliary infantry and cavalry, with some picked troops from the legions,
appeared sufficient for a war that was all but finished. They had been
joined by the 11th legion, which at first had hesitated, but now in the
hour of success felt alarm at having stood aloof. A recent levy of 6000
Dalmatians was attached to the legion. They were under the command of Pompeius
Silvanus, a man of consular rank; the real direction of affairs was in
the hands of Annius Bassus, the legate of the legion. This officer contrived,
under an appearance of submission, to govern Silvanus, a leader without
vigour, and apt to waste in words the opportunities of action. Bassus,
with his unobtrusive energy, was ready for everything that had to be done.
To these forces were added the elite of the marines of the Ravenna fleet,
who demanded permission to serve in the legions. The crews were made up
with Dalmatians. The army and generals halted at the Temple of Fortune,
undecided as to their line of action. They had heard that the Praetorian
Guard had marched out of Rome, and they supposed that the Apennines were
occupied with troops. The generals, finding themselves in a country utterly
impoverished by war, were terrified by the scarcity of provisions and the
mutinous clamours of the soldiery, who incessantly demanded the "clavarium,"
as the donative was called. They had provided neither money nor corn, and
they were embarrassed by the general impatience and rapacity; for what
they might have obtained was plundered. 
[3.51] I have the very highest authority
for asserting, that there was among the conquerors such an impious disregard
of right and wrong, that a private cavalry soldier declared he had slain
his brother in the late battle, and claimed a reward from the generals.
The common law of humanity on the one hand forbade them to reward this
act of blood, the necessities of the war on the other forbade them to punish
it. They put him off, on the ground that the obligation was too great to
be immediately discharged. Nothing more is recorded. In the earlier civil
wars indeed a similar horror had occurred. In the battle with Cinna at
the Janiculum, a soldier in Pompey's army, as Sisenna tells us, slew his
own brother, and, on discovering the horrible deed he had committed, destroyed
himself. So much more earnest among our ancestors was the honour paid to
virtue, and the remorse that waited on crime. These and like instances,
drawn from the recollections of the past, I shall mention not irrelevantly,
whenever the subject and the occasion shall call for some example of goodness
or some solace in the presence of evil. 
[3.52] Antonius and the other generals
of the party judged it expedient to send forward the cavalry and explore
the whole of Umbria for some point where the Apennines presented a more
gentle ascent, and also to bring up the eagles and standards and all the
troops at Verona, while they were to cover the Padus and the sea with convoys.
Some there were among the generals who were contriving delays, for Antonius
in fact was now becoming too great a man, and their hopes from Mucianus
were more definite. That commander, troubled at so speedy a success, and
imagining that unless he occupied Rome in person he should lose all share
in the glory of the war, continued to write in ambiguous terms to Varus
and Antonius, enlarging at one time on the necessity of following up their
operations, at another on the advantage of delay, and with expressions
so worded that he could, according to the event, repudiate a disastrous,
or claim a successful policy. To Plotius Griphus, who had lately been raised
by Vespasian to the senatorial rank and appointed to command a legion,
as well as to all others on whom he could fully rely, he gave plainer instructions.
All these men sent replies reflecting unfavourably on the precipitancy
of Varus and Antonius, and suiting the wishes of Mucianus. By forwarding
these letters to Vespasian he had accomplished this much, that the measures
and achievements of Antonius were not valued according to his hopes. 
[3.53] Antonius was indignant, and blamed
Mucianus, whose calumnies had depreciated his own hazardous achievements.
Nor was he temperate in his expressions, for he was habitually violent
in language, and was unaccustomed to obey. He wrote a letter to Vespasian
in terms more arrogant than should be addressed to an Emperor, and not
without implied reproach against Mucianus. "It was I," he said,
"who brought into the field the legions of Pannonia; my instigations
roused the generals in Moesia; my courageous resolution forced a passage
through the Alps, seized on Italy, and cut off the succours from Germany
and Rhaetia. The discomfiture of the disunited and scattered legions of
Vitellius by a fierce charge of cavalry, and afterwards by the steady strength
of the infantry in a conflict that lasted for a day and a night, was indeed
a most glorious achievement, and it was my work. For the destruction of
Cremona the war must be answerable; the civil strifes of former days cost
the State more terrible loss and the overthrow of many cities. Not with
messages and letters, but with my arm and my sword, have I served my Emperor.
I would not seek to hinder the renown of those who in the meanwhile have
reduced Asia to tranquillity. They had at heart the peace of Moesia, I
the safety and security of Italy. By my earnest representations Gaul and
Spain, the most powerful region of the world, have been won for Vespasian.
But all my efforts have been wasted, if they alone who have not shared
the peril obtain its rewards." The meaning of all this did not escape
Mucianus, and there arose a deadly feud, cherished by Antonius with frankness,
by Mucianus with reserve, and therefore with the greater bitterness. 
[3.54] Vitellius, after his power had
been shattered at Cremona, endeavoured to suppress the tidings of the disaster,
and by this foolish attempt at concealment he put off, not indeed his troubles,
but only the application of the remedy. Had he avowed and discussed his
position, he had some chance, some strength, left; whereas, on the contrary,
when he pretended that all was prosperous, he aggravated his perils by
falsehood. A strange silence was observed in his presence as to the war;
throughout the country all discussion was prohibited, and so, many who
would have told the truth had it been allowed, finding it forbidden, spread
rumours exaggerating the calamity. The generals of the enemy failed not
to magnify the report of their strength, for they sent back any spies of
Vitellius whom they captured, after conducting them round the camp in order
that they might learn the force of the victorious army. All of these persons
Vitellius questioned in secret, and then ordered that they should be put
to death. Singular bravery was displayed by a centurion, Julius Agrestis,
who, after several interviews, in which he had in vain endeavoured to rouse
Vitellius to courage, prevailed on the Emperor to send him in person to
see what was the strength of the enemy's resources, and what had happened
at Cremona. He did not seek to escape the notice of Antonius by making
his observations in secret, but avowed the emperor's instructions and his
own purpose, and asked leave to see everything. Persons were sent to shew
him the field of battle, the remains of Cremona, and the captured legions.
He then made his way back to Vitellius, and when the Emperor denied the
truth of the intelligence which he brought, and even charged him with having
been bribed, "Since," he replied, "you require some decisive
proof, and I can no longer serve you in any other way either by my life
or death I will give you a proof which you can believe." So he departed,
and confirmed his statement by a voluntary death. Some say that he was
slain by order of Vitellius, but they bear the same testimony to his loyalty
and courage. 
[3.55] Vitellius, who seemed like a
man roused from slumber ordered Julius Priscus and Alfenius Varus, with
fourteen of the Praetorian cohorts and the entire force of cavalry, to
occupy the Apennines. A legion of troops drafted from the fleet followed.
So many thousand troops, comprising the picked men and horses of the army,
had they been under the direction of a different general, would have been
quite equal even to aggressive operations. The rest of the Praetorian cohorts
were entrusted to Lucius Vitellius, brother of the Emperor, for the defence
of the capital. Vitellius, while he abated nothing of his habitual indulgence,
with a precipitancy prompted by alarm, anticipated the elections, at which
he appointed consuls for several years. With a profuse liberality, he granted
treaties to allies, and the rights of Latin citizenship to foreigners;
some he relieved by the remission of tribute, others by exemptions; in
a word, utterly careless of the future, he mutilated the resources of the
Empire. But the mob was attracted by the magnificence of his bounties.
The most foolish bought these favours with money; the wise held that to
be invalid, which could neither be given nor received without ruin to the
State. Yielding at length to the importunity of the army, which had taken
up its position at Mevania, and accompanied by a numerous train of senators,
into which many were brought by ambition and more by fear, he entered the
camp, undecided in purpose and at the mercy of faithless counsels. 
[3.56] While he was haranguing his troops
(marvellous to relate) such a multitude of ill-omened birds flew over him,
as to obscure with a dark cloud the light of day. There occurred another
terrible presage. A bull escaped from the altar, scattered the preparations
for sacrifice, and was finally slain far from the spot where the victims
are usually struck down. But the most portentous spectacle of all was Vitellius
himself, ignorant of military matters and without forethought in his plans,
even asking others about the order of march, about the business of reconnoitring,
and the discretion to be used in pushing on or protracting the campaign,
betraying in his countenance and gait his alarm at every fresh piece of
intelligence, and finally drinking to intoxication. At last, weary of the
camp, and having received tidings of the defection of the fleet at Misenum,
he returned to Rome, trembling at every new disaster, but reckless of the
final result. For though it was open to him to have crossed the Apennines
with an army in unimpaired vigour, and to have attacked in the field an
enemy suffering from cold and scant supplies, yet, by dividing his forces,
he abandoned to destruction or captivity troops of the keenest courage
and faithful to the last, against the judgment of the most experienced
among the centurions, who, had they been consulted, would have told him
the truth. They were all kept at a distance by the intimate friends of
Vitellius; for the Emperor's ears were so formed, that all profitable counsels
were offensive to him, and that he would hear nothing but what would please
and ruin. 
[3.57] The fleet at Misenum, so much
can be done in times of civil discord by the daring of even a single man,
was drawn into revolt by Claudius Faventinus, a centurion cashiered by
Galba, who forged letters in the name of Vespasian offering a reward for
treachery. The fleet was under the command of Claudius Apollinaris, a man
neither firm in his loyalty, nor energetic in his treason. Apinius Tiro,
who had filled the office of praetor, and who then happened to be at Minturnae,
offered to head the revolt. By these men the colonies and municipal towns
were drawn into the movement, and as Puteoli was particularly zealous for
Vespasian, while Capua on the other hand remained loyal to Vitellius, they
introduced their municipal jealousy into the civil war. Claudius Julianus,
who had lately exercised an indulgent rule over the fleet at Misenum, was
selected by Vitellius to soothe the irritation of the soldiery. He was
supported by a city cohort and a troop of gladiators whose chief officer
he was. As soon as the two camps were pitched, Julianus, without much hesitation,
went over to the side of Vespasian, and they then occupied Tarracina, which
was protected by its fortifications and position rather than by any ability
of theirs. 
[3.58] Vitellius, when informed of these
events, left a portion of his army at Narnia under the command of the prefect
of the Praetorian Guard, and deputed his brother Lucius with six cohorts
of infantry and 500 cavalry to encounter the danger that now threatened
him on the side of Campania. Sick at heart, he found relief in the zeal
of the soldiers and in the shouts with which the people clamoured for arms,
while he gave the delusive name of an army and of Roman legions to a cowardly
mob, that would not venture on any thing beyond words. At the instance
of his freedmen (for his friends were the less faithful the more distinguished
their rank) he ordered the tribes to be convoked, and to those who gave
in their names administered the oath of service. As the numbers were excessive,
he divided the business of enrolment between the consuls. He required the
Senators to furnish a prescribed number of slaves and a certain weight
of silver. The Roman Knights offered their services and money, and even
the freedmen voluntarily sought the privilege of doing the same. This pretence
of loyalty, dictated at first by fear, passed into enthusiasm, and many
expressed compassion, not so much for Vitellius, as for the fallen condition
of the Imperial power. Vitellius himself failed not to draw out their sympathies
by his pitiable looks, his voice, and his tears; he was liberal in his
promises and even extravagant, as men in their alarm naturally are. He
even expressed a wish to be saluted as Caesar, a title which he had formerly
rejected. But now he had a superstitious feeling about the name; and it
is a fact that in the moment of terror the counsels of the wise and the
voice of the rabble are listened to with equal respect. But as all movements
that originate in thoughtless impulse, however vigorous in their beginnings,
become feeble after a time, the throng of Senators and Knights gradually
melted away, dispersing at first tardily and during the absence of the
Emperor, but before long with a contemptuous indifference to his presence,
till, ashamed of the failure of his efforts, Vitellius waived his claims
to services which were not offered. 
[3.59] As the occupation of Mevania,
and the apparent revival of the war with new vigour, had struck terror
into Italy, so now did the timorous retreat of Vitellius give an unequivocal
bias in favour of the Flavianists. The Samnites, the Peligni, and the Marsi,
roused themselves, jealous at having been anticipated by Campania, and,
as men who serve a new master, were energetic in all the duties of war.
The army, however, was much distressed by bad weather in its passage over
the Apennines, and since they could hardly struggle through the snow, though
their march was unmolested, they perceived what danger they would have
had to encounter, had not Vitellius been made to turn back by that good
fortune, which, not less often than the wisdom of their counsels, helped
the Flavianist generals. Here they fell in with Petilius Cerialis, who
had escaped the sentries of Vitellius by a rustic disguise and by his knowledge
of the country. There was a near relationship between Cerialis and Vespasian,
and he was not without reputation as a soldier. He was therefore admitted
to rank among the generals. It has been said by many that the means of
escape were likewise open to Flavius Sabinus and to Domitian, and indeed
messengers, dispatched by Antonius, contrived under various disguises to
make their way to them, offering them a place of refuge and a protecting
force. Sabinus pleaded his ill health, unsuited to toil and adventure.
Domitian did not want the courage, but he feared that the guards whom Vitellius
had set over him, though they offered to accompany him in his flight, had
treacherous designs. And Vitellius himself, out of a regard for his own
connexions, did not meditate any cruelty against Domitian. 
[3.60] The Flavianist generals on their
arrival at Carsulae took a few days for repose, while the eagles and standards
of the legions were coming up. Carsulae appeared a good position for an
encampment, for it commanded an extensive prospect, provisions could be
safely brought up, and there were in its rear several very wealthy towns.
They also calculated on interviews with the Vitellianists, who were only
ten miles distant, and on the chances of defection. The soldiers were dissatisfied
with this prospect, and wished for victory rather than for peace. They
would not even await the arrival of their own legions, whom they looked
upon as sharers in the spoil rather than in the dangers of the campaign.
Antonius summoned them to an assembly, and explained to them that Vitellius
had still forces, which would waver in their loyalty if they had time to
reflect, but would be fierce foes if driven to despair. "The opening
of a civil war must," he said, "be left to chance; the final
triumph is perfected by wise counsels and skill. The fleet of Misenum and
the fairest portion of Campania have already revolted, and out of the whole
world Vitellius has nothing left but the country between Tarracina and
Narnia. From our victory at Cremona sufficient glory has accrued to us,
and from the destruction of that city only too much disgrace. Let us not
be eager to capture rather than to preserve the capital. Greater will be
our reward, far higher our reputation, if we secure without bloodshed the
safety of the Senate and of the people of Rome." By this and similar
language their impatience was allayed. 
[3.61] Soon after, the legions arrived.
Alarmed by the report of this increase to the army, the Vitellianist cohorts
began to waver; no one urged them to fight, many urged them to change sides,
each more eager than the other to hand over his company or troop, a present
to the conqueror, and a source of future advantage to himself. From these
men it was ascertained that Interamna, situated in the adjoining plain,
was occupied by a garrison of 400 cavalry. Varus was at once dispatched
with a lightly equipped force, and cut to pieces a few who attempted to
resist; the greater number threw down their arms, and begged for quarter.
Some fled back into the camp, and spread panic everywhere by exaggerated
reports of the courage and strength of the enemy, seeking thus to mitigate
the disgrace of having lost the position. Among the Vitellianists treason
went unpunished; all loyalty was subverted by the rewards of desertion,
and nothing was left but emulation in perfidy. There were numerous desertions
among the tribunes and centurions; the common soldiers remained obstinately
faithful to Vitellius, till Priscus and Alfenius, deserting the camp and
returning to Vitellius, relieved all from any shame they might feel at
being traitors. 
[3.62] About the same time Fabius Valens
was put to death while in confinement at Urbinum. His head was displayed
to the Vitellianist cohort, that they might not cherish any further hope,
for they generally believed that Valens had made his way into Germany,
and was there bringing into the field veteran as well as newly levied armies.
The bloody spectacle reduced them to despair, and it was amazing how the
army of Vespasian welcomed in their hearts the destruction of Valens as
the termination of the war. Valens was a native of Anagnia, and belonged
to an Equestrian family; he was a man of loose character, but of no small
ability, who sought to gain by profligacy a reputation for elegance. In
the theatricals performed by young men during the reign of Nero, at first
apparently from compulsion, afterwards of his own free choice, he repeatedly
acted in the farces, with more cleverness than propriety. While legate
of a legion, he first supported, then slandered, Verginius. Fonteius Capito
he murdered, either after he had corrupted him, or because he had failed
to do so. Though a traitor to Galba he was loyal to Vitellius, and gained
a lustre from the perfidy of others. 
[3.63] Finding all their hopes cut off,
the troops of Vitellius, intending to pass over to the side of the conqueror,
but to do so with honour, marched down with their standards and colours
into the plains beneath Narnia. The army of Vespasian, prepared and equipped
as if for action, was drawn up in dense array on both sides of the road.
The Vitellianists were received between the two columns; when they were
thus surrounded, Antonius addressed them kindly. One division was ordered
to remain at Narnia, another at Interamna; with them were left some of
the victorious legions, which would not be formidable to them if they remained
quiet, but were strong enough to crush all turbulence. At the same time
Primus and Varus did not neglect to forward continual messages to Vitellius,
offering him personal safety, the enjoyment of wealth, and a quiet retreat
in Campania, provided he would lay down his arms and surrender himself
and his children to Vespasian. Mucianus also wrote to him to the same effect,
and Vitellius was often disposed to trust these overtures, and even discussed
the number of his household and the choice of a residence on the coast.
Such a lethargy had come over his spirit, that, had not others remembered
he had been an Emperor, he would have himself forgotten it. 
[3.64] The leading men in the State
had secret conferences with Flavius Sabinus, prefect of the city, urging
him to secure a share in the credit of the victory. "You have,"
they said, "a force of your own in the city cohorts; the cohorts of
the watch will not fail you, and there are also our own slaves, there is
the prestige of the party, there is the fact that to the victorious everything
is easy. You should not yield the glory of the war to Antonius and Varus.
Vitellius has but a few cohorts, and they are alarmed by gloomy tidings
from every quarter. The feelings of the people are easily swayed, and,
if you put yourself at their head, there will soon be the same flatteries
ready for Vespasian. Vitellius even in prosperity was unequal to his position,
and he is proportionately unnerved by disaster. The merit of having finished
the war will belong to him who may have possessed himself of the capital.
It would well become Sabinus to keep the Empire for his brother, and Vespasian
equally well, to count his other adherents inferior to Sabinus." 
[3.65] Old and infirm as he was, it
was with anything but eagerness that he listened to these suggestions.
Some indeed assailed him with dark insinuations, implying that from motives
of envy and rivalry he was seeking to retard the elevation of his brother.
It was true, that while both were in a private station, Flavius Sabinus,
who was the elder, was the superior of Vespasian in influence and in wealth.
He was believed indeed to have sustained the failing credit of his brother,
while taking a mortgage of his house and lands; and hence, though the outward
appearance of harmony was preserved, some secret grudge was feared. It
is more charitable to suppose that the mild temper of the man shrank from
bloodshed and slaughter, and that for this reason he had held frequent
conferences with Vitellius to discuss the question of peace and the cessation
of hostilities upon certain conditions. After many private interviews,
they finally, so report said, ratified an agreement in the temple of Apollo.
The words of their conversation had two witnesses in Cluvius Rufus and
Silius Italicus. Their looks were noted by the more distant spectators;
the expression of Vitellius was abject and mean, that of Sabinus not triumphant,
but rather akin to pity. 
[3.66] Could Vitellius have swayed the
feelings of his partisans as easily as he had himself yielded, the army
of Vespasian might have entered the capital without bloodshed. But the
more loyal his adherents, the more did they protest against peace and negotiation.
They pointed out the danger and disgrace of a submission in which the caprice
of the conqueror would be their sole guarantee. "And Vespasian,"
they said, "is not so arrogant as to tolerate such a subject as Vitellius.
Even the vanquished would not endure it. Their pity would be dangerous
to him. You certainly are an old man, and have had enough both of prosperity
and of adversity, but think what a name, what a position, you will leave
to your son Germanicus. Now indeed they promise you wealth, and a large
establishment, and a luxurious retreat in Campania; but when Vespasian
has once seized the throne, neither he, nor his friends, nor even his armies,
will feel themselves secure till all rivalry has been extinguished. Fabius
Valens, captive as he was, and reserved against the chance of disaster,
was yet too formidable to them; and certainly Primus, Fuscus, and Mucianus,
who exhibits the temper of his party, will not be allowed power over Vitellius
except to put him to death. Caesar did not leave Pompey, Augustus did not
leave Antony in safety, though, perhaps, Vespasian may show a more lofty
spirit, Vespasian, who was a dependant of Vitellius, when Vitellius was
the colleague of Claudius. If you would act as becomes the censorship,
the thrice-repeated consulate of your father, and all the honours of your
illustrious house, let despair at any rate arm you to courageous action.
The troops are still firm, and among the people there is abundant zeal.
Lastly, nothing can happen to us more terrible than that upon which we
are voluntarily rushing. If we are conquered, we must die; we must die,
if we capitulate. All that concerns us is this; shall we draw our last
breath amidst scorn and insult, or in a valiant struggle?" 
[3.67] The ears of Vitellius were deaf
to manly counsels. His whole soul was overwhelmed by a tender anxiety,
lest by an obstinate resistance he might leave the conqueror less mercifully
disposed to his wife and children. He had also a mother old and feeble,
but she, expiring a few days before, escaped by her opportune death the
ruin of her house, having gained from the Imperial dignity of her son nothing
but sorrow and a good name. On the 18th of December, after hearing of the
defection of the legion and the auxiliary infantry which had surrendered
at Narnia, he left the palace, clad in mourning robes, and surrounded by
his weeping household. With him went his little son, carried in a litter,
as though in a funeral procession. The greetings of the people were flattering,
but ill-suited to the time; the soldiers preserved an ominous silence.

[3.68] There could hardly be a man so
careless of human interests as not to be affected by this spectacle. There
was the Roman Emperor, lord but a few days before of the whole human race,
leaving the seat of his power, and passing through the midst of his people
and his capital, to abdicate his throne. Men had never before seen or heard
of such an event. Caesar, the Dictator, had fallen by sudden violence,
Caligula by secret treason. The shades of night and the obscurity of a
rural hiding-place had veiled the flight of Nero. Piso and Galba had, it
might be said, fallen in battle. In an assembly of his own people, and
in the midst of his own soldiers, with the very women of his family looking
on, Vitellius stood and spoke a few words suitable to the sad conjuncture.
"He gave way," he said, "for the sake of peace, for the
sake of his country; let them only remember him, and think with compassion
of his brother, of his wife, of his young and innocent children."
At the same time he held out his son, commending him first to individual
bystanders, then to the whole assembly. At last, unable to speak for weeping,
he unfastened the dagger from his side, and offered it to the Consul, Caecilius
Simplex, who was standing by him, as if to indicate that he surrendered
the power of life and death over the citizens. The Consul rejecting it,
and those who were standing by in the assembly shouting remontrance, he
departed, as if with the intention of laying aside the emblems of Imperial
power in the Temple of Concord, and of betaking himself to his brother's
house. Louder shouts here met him from the crowd, which hindered him from
entering a private house, and invited him to return to the palace. Every
other route was closed, and the only one open was one which led into the
Via Sacra. Then in utter perplexity he returned to the palace. The rumour
that he had renounced the Imperial dignity had preceded him thither, and
Flavius Sabinus had sent written orders to the tribunes of the cohorts
to keep their soldiers under restraint. 
[3.69] Then, as if the whole State had
passed into the hands of Vespasian, the leading men of the Senate, many
of the Equestrian order, with all the city soldiery and the watch, thronged
the dwelling of Sabinus. Intelligence was there brought to him of the enthusiasm
of the populace and of the threatening attitude of the German cohorts.
He had now gone too far to be able to retreat, and every one, fearing for
himself, should the Vitellianists come upon them while they were scattered
and comparatively weak, urged him, in spite of his reluctance, to hostilities.
As usually happens, however, in such cases, all gave the advice, but few
shared the risk. The armed retinue which was escorting Sabinus was met,
as it was coming down by the Lake Fundanus, by some of the most determined
of the Vitellianists. From this unforeseen collision resulted an encounter
slight indeed, but terminating favourably for the Vitellianists. In the
hurry of the moment Sabinus adopted the safest course open to him, and
occupied the Capitol with a miscellaneous body of soldiery, and some Senators
and Knights. It is not easy to give the names of these persons, since after
the triumph of Vespasian many pretended to have rendered this service to
his party. There were even women who braved the dangers of the siege; the
most conspicuous among them being Verulana Gratilla, who was taken thither,
not by the love of children or kindred, but by the fascination of war.
The Vitellianists kept but a careless watch over the besieged, and thus
at the dead of night Sabinus was able to bring into the Capitol his own
children and Domitian his brother's son, and to send by an unguarded route
a messenger to the generals of the Flavianist party, with information that
they were besieged, and that, unless succour arrived, they must be reduced
to distress. The night passed so quietly that he might have quitted the
place without loss; for, brave as were the soldiers of Vitellius in encountering
danger, they were far from attentive to the laborious duties of watching.
Besides this, the sudden fall of a winter storm baffled both sight and
hearing. 
[3.70] At dawn of day, before either
side commenced hostilities, Sabinus sent Cornelius Martialis, a centurion
of the first rank, to Vitellius, with instructions to complain of the infraction
of the stipulated terms. "There has evidently," he said, "been
a mere show and pretence of abdicating the Empire, with the view of deceiving
a number of distinguished men. If not, why, when leaving the Rostra, had
he gone to the house of his brother, looking as it did over the Forum,
and certain to provoke the gaze of the multitude, rather than to the Aventine,
and the family house of his wife? This would have befitted a private individual
anxious to shun all appearance of Imperial power. But on the contrary,
Vitellius retraced his steps to the palace, the very stronghold of Empire;
thence issued a band of armed men. One of the most frequented parts of
the city was strewed with the corpses of innocent persons. The Capitol
itself had not been spared. "I," said Sabinus, "was only
a civilian and a member of the Senate, while the rivalry of Vitellius and
Vespasian was being settled by conflicts between legions, by the capture
of cities, by the capitulation of cohorts; with Spain, Germany, and Britain
in revolt, the brother of Vespasian still remained firm to his allegiance,
till actually invited to discuss terms of agreement. Peace and harmony
bring advantage to the conquered, but only credit to the conqueror. If
you repent of your compact, it is not against me, whom you treacherously
deceived, that you must draw the sword, nor is it against the son of Vespasian,
who is yet of tender age. What would be gained by the slaughter of one
old man and one stripling? You should go and meet the legions, and fight
there for Empire; everything else will follow the issue of that struggle."
To these representations the embarrassed Vitellius answered a few words
in his own exculpation, throwing all the blame upon the soldiers, with
whose excessive zeal his moderation was, he said, unable to cope. He advised
Martialis to depart unobserved through a concealed part of the palace,
lest he should be killed by the soldiers, as the negotiator of this abhorred
convention. Vitellius had not now the power either to command or to forbid.
He was no longer Emperor, he was merely the cause of war. 
[3.71] Martialis had hardly returned
to the Capitol, when the infuriated soldiery arrived, without any leader,
every man acting on his own impulse. They hurried at quick march past the
Forum and the temples which hang over it, and advanced their line up the
opposite hill as far as the outer gates of the Capitol. There were formerly
certain colonnades on the right side of the slope as one went up; the defenders,
issuing forth on the roof of these buildings, showered tiles and stones
on the Vitellianists. The assailants were not armed with anything but swords,
and it seemed too tedious to send for machines and missiles. They threw
lighted brands on a projecting colonnade, and following the track of the
fire would have burst through the half-burnt gates of the Capitol, had
not Sabinus, tearing down on all sides the statues, the glories of former
generations, formed them into a barricade across the opening. They then
assailed the opposite approaches to the Capitol, near the grove of the
Asylum, and where the Tarpeian rock is mounted by a hundred steps. Both
these attacks were unexpected; the closer and fiercer of the two threatened
the Asylum. The assailants could not be checked as they mounted the continuous
line of buildings, which, as was natural in a time of profound peace, had
grown up to such a height as to be on a level with the soil of the Capitol.
A doubt arises at this point, whether it was the assailants who threw lighted
brands on to the roofs, or whether, as the more general account has it,
the besieged thus sought to repel the assailants, who were now making vigorous
progress. From them the fire passed to the colonnades adjoining the temples;
the eagles supporting the pediment, which were of old timber, caught the
flames. And so the Capitol, with its gates shut, neither defended by friends,
nor spoiled by a foe, was burnt to the ground. 
[3.72] This was the most deplorable
and disgraceful event that had happened to the Commonwealth of Rome since
the foundation of the city; for now, assailed by no foreign enemy, with
Heaven ready to be propitious, had our vices only allowed, the seat of
Jupiter Supremely Good and Great, founded by our ancestors with solemn
auspices to be the pledge of Empire, the seat, which neither Porsenna,
when the city was surrendered, nor the Gauls, when it was captured, had
been able to violate, was destroyed by the madness of our Emperors. Once
before indeed during civil war the Capitol had been consumed by fire, but
then only through the crime of individuals; now it was openly besieged,
and openly set on fire. And what were the motives of this conflict? what
the compensation for so great a disaster? was it for our country we were
fighting? King Tarquinius Priscus had vowed its erection in his war with
the Sabines, and had laid the foundations on a scale which suited the hopes
of future greatness rather than what the yet moderate resources of Rome
could achieve. After him, Servius Tullius, heartily assisted by the allies,
and Tarquinius Superbus, employing the spoils of war from the conquered
Suessa Pometia, raised the superstructure. But the glory of its completion
was reserved for the days of liberty. After the expulsion of the Kings,
Horatius Pulvillus, in his second consulate, dedicated it, a building so
magnificent, that the vast wealth afterwards acquired by the people of
Rome served to embellish rather than increase it. It was rebuilt on the
same site, when, after an interval of 415 years, it was burnt to the ground
in the consulate of Lucius Scipio and Caius Norbanus. Sulla, after his
final triumph, undertook the charge of restoring it, but did not live to
dedicate it, the one thing denied to his uniform good fortune. The name
of Lutatius Catulus, the dedicator, remained among all the vast erections
of the Emperors, down to the days of Vitellius. This was the building that
was now on fire. 
[3.73] The catastrophe, however, caused
more panic among the besieged than among the besiegers. In fact, the troops
of Vitellius lacked neither skill nor courage in the midst of peril. Opposed
to them were soldiers without self-possession, and a spiritless and, so
to speak, infatuated commander, who had not the use of his tongue or his
ears, who would not be guided by other men's counsels, and could not carry
out his own, who, hurried to and fro by the shouts of the enemy, forbade
what he had just ordered, and ordered what he had just forbidden. Then,
as usually happens when everything is lost, all gave orders, and no one
obeyed. At last, they threw away their arms, and began to look about for
ways of escape and means of concealment. The Vitellianists burst in, carrying
everywhere with indiscriminate ferocity the firebrand and the sword. A
few of the military men, among whom the most conspicuous were Cornelius
Martialis, Aemilius Pacensis, Casperius Niger, and Didius Sceva, ventured
to resist, and were cut down. Flavius Sabinus, who was unarmed, and who
did not attempt to fly, was surrounded, and with him the consul Quinctius
Atticus, marked out by his clinging to the shadow of office, and by his
folly in having scattered among the people edicts highly eulogistic of
Vespasian and insulting to Vitellius. The rest escaped by various chances,
some disguised as slaves, others concealed by the fidelity of dependants,
and hiding among the baggage. Some caught the watchword by which the Vitellianists
recognised each other, and, themselves challenging others and giving it
when challenged, found in their audacity an effectual disguise. 
[3.74] When the enemy first burst in,
Domitian concealed himself in the house of a servant of the temple. At
the ingenious suggestion of a freedman, he assumed a linen vestment, and
passing unnoticed among a crowd of acolytes, found a refuge with Cornelius
Primus, one of his father's dependants, in a house near the Velabrum. When
his father mounted the throne, he pulled down the chamber of the temple-servant,
and built a small chapel, dedicated to Jupiter the Preserver, with an altar
on which his own adventures were represented in marble. Afterwards, on
his own accession to the Imperial power, he consecrated a vast temple to
Jupiter the Guardian, with an effigy of himself in the arms of the god.
Sabinus and Atticus were loaded with chains, and conducted to Vitellius,
who received them with anything but anger in his words and looks, amidst
the murmurs of those who demanded the privilege of slaying them and their
pay for the work they had done. Those who were standing near began the
clamour, and the degraded rabble cried out for the execution of Sabinus,
and mingled threats with their flatteries. Vitellius, who was standing
before the steps of the palace, and was preparing to intercede, was induced
to desist. The body of Sabinus, pierced and mutilated and with the head
severed from it, was dragged to the Gemoniae. 
[3.75] Such was the end of a man in
no wise contemptible. In five and thirty campaigns he had served the State,
and had gained distinction both at home and abroad. His blamelessness and
integrity no one could question. He was somewhat boastful; this was the
only fault of which rumour accused him in the seven years during which
he had governed Moesia, and the twelve during which he was prefect of the
city. In the closing scene of his life some have seen pusillanimity, many
a moderate temper, sparing of the blood of his countrymen. One thing is
allowed by all, that, before the accession of Vespasian, the distinction
of the family was centred in Sabinus. I have heard that his death gratified
Mucianus, and many indeed asserted that the interests of peace were promoted
by the removal of the rivalry between these two men, one of whom felt himself
to be the brother of the Emperor, while the other thought himself his colleague.
Vitellius resisted the demands of the people for the execution of the Consul;
he was now pacified, and wished, it would seem, to recompense Atticus,
who, when asked who had set fire to the Capitol, had confessed his own
guilt, and by this confession, which may indeed have been an opportune
falsehood, was thought to have taken upon himself the odium of the crime,
and to have acquitted the Vitellianist party. 
[3.76] Meanwhile Lucius Vitellius, who
was encamped near Feronia, was threatening Tarracina with destruction.
There were shut up in the place a few gladiators and seamen, who dared
not leave the walls and risk an engagement in the plain. I have mentioned
before that Julianus was in command of the gladiators, Apollinaris of the
seamen, two men whose profligacy and indolence made them resemble gladiators
rather than generals. They kept no watch; they did not strengthen the weak
points of the fortifications; but, making each pleasant spot ring with
the noise of their daily and nightly dissipation, they dispersed their
soldiers on errands which were to minister to their luxury, and never spoke
of war, except at their banquets. Apinius Tiro had quitted the place a
few days before, and was now, by the harsh exaction of presents and contributions
from the towns, adding to the unpopularity rather than to the resources
of his party. 
[3.77] Meanwhile a slave belonging to
Verginius Capito deserted to L. Vitellius, and having engaged, on being
furnished with a force, to put him in possession of the unoccupied citadel,
proceeded at a late hour of the night to place some light-armed cohorts
on the summit of a range of hills which commanded the enemy's position.
From this place the troops descended to what was more a massacre than a
conflict. Many whom they slew were unarmed or in the act of arming themselves,
some were just awaking from sleep, amid the confusion of darkness and panic,
the braying of trumpets, and the shouts of the foe. A few of the gladiators
resisted, and fell not altogether unavenged. The rest made a rush for the
ships, where everything was involved in a general panic, the troops being
mingled with country people, whom the Vitellianists slaughtered indiscriminately.
Six Liburnian ships with Apollinaris, prefect of the fleet, escaped in
the first confusion. The rest were either seized upon the beach, or were
swamped by the weight of the crowds that rushed on board. Julianus was
brought before L. Vitellius, and, after being ignominiously scourged, was
put to death in his presence. Some persons accused Triaria, the wife of
L. Vitellius, of having armed herself with a soldier's sword, and of having
behaved with arrogance and cruelty amid the horrors and massacres of the
storm of Tarracina. Lucius himself sent to his brother a laurelled dispatch
with an account of his success, and asked whether he wished him at once
to return to Rome, or to complete the subjugation of Campania. This circumstance
was advantageous to the State as well as to the cause of Vespasian. Had
the army fresh from victory, and with all the pride of success added to
its natural obstinacy, marched upon Rome, a conflict of no slight magnitude,
and involving the destruction of the capital, must have ensued. Lucius
Vitellius, infamous as he was, had yet some energy, but it was not through
his virtues, as is the case with the good, but through his vices, that
he, like the worst of villains, was formidable. 
[3.78] While these successes were being
achieved on the side of Vitellius, the army of Vespasian had left Narnia,
and was passing the holiday of the Saturnalia in idleness at Ocriculum.
The reason alleged for so injurious a delay was that they might wait for
Mucianus. Some persons indeed there were who assailed Antonius with insinuations,
that he lingered with treacherous intent, after receiving private letters
from Vitellius, which conveyed to him the offer of the consulship and of
the Emperor's daughter in marriage with a vast dowry, as the price of treason.
Others asserted that this was all a fiction, invented to please Mucianus.
Some again alleged that the policy agreed upon by all the generals was
to threaten rather than actually to attack the capital, as Vitellius' strongest
cohorts had revolted from him, and it seemed likely that, deprived of all
support, he would abdicate the throne, but that the whole plan was ruined
by the impatience and subsequent cowardice of Sabinus, who, after rashly
taking up arms, had not been able to defend against three cohorts the great
stronghold of the Capitol, which might have defied even the mightiest armies.
One cannot, however, easily fix upon one man the blame which belongs to
all. Mucianus did in fact delay the conquerors by ambiguously-worded dispatches;
Antonius, by a perverse acquiescence, or by an attempt to throw the odium
upon another, laid himself open to blame; the other generals, by imagining
that the war was over, contrived a distinction for its closing scene. Even
Petilius Cerialis, though he had been sent on with a thousand cavalry by
crossroads through the Sabine district so as to enter Rome by the Via Salaria,
had not been sufficiently prompt in his movements, when the report of the
siege of the Capitol put all alike on the alert. 
[3.79] Antonius marched by the Via Flaminia,
and arrived at Saxa Rubra, when the night was far spent, too late to give
any help. There he received nothing but gloomy intelligence, that Sabinus
was dead, that the Capitol had been burnt to the ground, that Rome was
in consternation, and also that the populace and the slaves were arming
themselves for Vitellius. And Petilius Cerialis had been defeated in a
cavalry skirmish. While he was hurrying on without caution, as against
a vanquished enemy, the Vitellianists, who had disposed some infantry among
their cavalry, met him. The conflict took place not far from the city among
buildings, gardens, and winding lanes, which were well known to the Vitellianists,
but disconcerting to their opponents, to whom they were strange. Nor indeed
were all the cavalry one in heart, for there were with them some who had
lately capitulated at Narnia, and who were anxiously watching the fortunes
of the rival parties. Tullius Flavianus, commanding a squadron, was taken
prisoner; the rest fled in disgraceful confusion, but the victors did not
continue the pursuit beyond Fidenae. 
[3.80] By this success the zeal of the
people was increased. The mob of the city armed itself. Some few had military
shields, the greater part seized such arms as came to hand, and loudly
demanded the signal of battle. Vitellius expressed his thanks to them,
and bade them sally forth to defend the capital. Then the Senate was called
together, and envoys were selected to meet the armies and urge them in
the name of the Commonwealth to union and peace. The reception of these
envoys was not everywhere the same. Those who fell in with Petilius Cerialis
were exposed to extreme peril, for the troops disdained all offers of peace.
The praetor Arulenus Rusticus was wounded. This deed seemed all the more
atrocious, when, over and above the insult offered to the dignity of the
envoy and praetor, men considered the private worth of the man. His companions
were dispersed, and the lictor that stood next to him, venturing to push
aside the crowd, was killed. Had they not been protected by an escort provided
by the general, the dignity of the ambassador, respected even by foreign
nations, would have been profaned with fatal violence by the madness of
Roman citizens before the very walls of their Country. The envoys who met
Antonious were more favourably received, not because the troops were of
quieter temper, but because the general had more authority. 
[3.81] One Musonius Rufus, a man of
equestrian rank, strongly attached to the pursuit of philosophy and to
the tenets of the Stoics, had joined the envoys. He mingled with the troops,
and, enlarging on the blessings of peace and the perils of war, began to
admonish the armed crowd. Many thought it ridiculous; more thought it tiresome;
some were ready to throw him down and trample him under foot, had he not
yielded to the warnings of the more orderly and the threats of others,
and ceased to display his ill-timed wisdom. The Vestal virgins also presented
themselves with a letter from Vitellius to Antonius. He asked for one day
of truce before the final struggle, and said, that if they would permit
some delay to intervene, everything might be more easily arranged. The
sacred virgins were sent back with honour, but the answer returned to Vitellius
was, that all ordinary intercourse of war had been broken off by the murder
of Sabinus and the conflagration of the Capitol. 
[3.82] Antonius, however, summoned the
legions to an assembly, and endeavoured to calm them, proposing that they
should encamp near the Mulvian bridge, and enter the capital on the following
day. His reason for delay was the fear that the soldiers, once exasperated
by conflict, would respect neither the people nor the Senate, nor even
the shrines and temples of the Gods. They, however, looked with dislike
on all procrastination as inimical to victory. At the same time the colours
that glittered among the hills, though followed by an unwarlike population,
presented the appearance of a hostile array. They advanced in three divisions,
one column straight from where they had halted along the Via Flaminia,
another along the bank of the Tiber, a third moved on the Colline Gate
by the Via Salaria. The mob was routed by a charge of the cavalry. Then
the Vitellianist troops, themselves also drawn up in three columns of defence,
met the foe. Numerous engagements with various issue took place before
the walls, but they generally ended in favour of the Flavianists, who had
the advantage of more skilful generalship. Only that division suffered
which had wound its way along narrow and slippery roads to the left quarter
of the city as far as the gardens of Sallust. The Vitellianists, taking
their stand on the garden-walls, kept off the assailants with stones and
javelins till late in the day, when they were taken in the rear by the
cavalry, which had then forced an entrance by the Colline Gate. In the
Campus Martius also the hostile armies met, the Flavianists with all the
prestige of fortune and repeated victory, the Vitellianists rushing on
in sheer despair. Though defeated, they rallied again in the city. 
[3.83] The populace stood by and watched
the combatants; and, as though it had been a mimic conflict, encouraged
first one party and then the other by their shouts and plaudits. Whenever
either side gave way, they cried out that those who concealed themselves
in the shops, or took refuge in any private house, should be dragged out
and butchered, and they secured the larger share of the booty; for, while
the soldiers were busy with bloodshed and massacre, the spoils fell to
the crowd. It was a terrible and hideous sight that presented itself throughout
the city. Here raged battle and death; there the bath and the tavern were
crowded. In one spot were pools of blood and heaps of corpses, and close
by prostitutes and men of character as infamous; there were all the debaucheries
of luxurious peace, all the horrors of a city most cruelly sacked, till
one was ready to believe the Country to be mad at once with rage and lust.
It was not indeed the first time that armed troops had fought within the
city; they had done so twice when Sulla, once when Cinna triumphed. The
bloodshed then had not been less, but now there was an unnatural recklessness,
and men's pleasures were not interrupted even for a moment. As if it were
a new delight added to their holidays, they exulted in and enjoyed the
scene, indifferent to parties, and rejoicing over the sufferings of the
Commonwealth. 
[3.84] The most arduous struggle was
the storming of the camp, which the bravest of the enemy still held as
a last hope. It was, therefore, with peculiar energy that the conquerors,
among whom the veteran cohorts were especially forward, brought to bear
upon it at once all the appliances which have been discovered in reducing
the strongest cities, the testudo, the catapult, the earth-work, and the
firebrand. They repeatedly shouted "that all the toil and danger they
had endured in so many conflicts would be crowned by this achievement.
The capital has been restored to the Senate and people of Rome, and their
temples to the Gods; but the soldier's peculiar distinction is in the camp;
this is his country, and this his home; unless this be recovered forthwith,
the night must be passed under arms." On the other hand the Vitellianists,
though unequal in numbers and doomed to defeat, could yet disturb the victory,
delay the conclusion of peace, and pollute both hearth and altar with blood;
and they clung to these last consolations of the vanquished. Many, desperately
wounded, breathed their last on the towers and ramparts. When the gates
were torn down, the survivors threw themselves in a body on the conquerors,
and fell to a man, with their wounds in front and their faces turned towards
the foe, so anxious were they even in their last hours to die with honour.
When the city had been taken, Vitellius caused himself to be carried in
a litter through the back of the palace to the Aventine, to his wife's
dwelling, intending, if by any concealment he could escape for that day,
to make his way to his brother's cohorts at Tarracina. Then, with characteristic
weakness, and following the instincts of fear, which, dreading everything,
shrinks most from what is immediately before it, he retraced his steps
to the desolate and forsaken palace, whence even the meanest slaves had
fled, or where they avoided his presence. The solitude and silence of the
place scared him; he tried the closed doors, he shuddered in the empty
chambers, till, wearied out with his miserable wanderings, he concealed
himself in an unseemly hiding-place, from which he was dragged out by the
tribune Julius Placidus. His hands were bound behind his back, and he was
led along with tattered robes, a revolting spectacle, amidst the invectives
of many, the tears of none. The degradation of his end had extinguished
all pity. One of the German soldiers met the party, and aimed a deadly
blow at Vitellius, perhaps in anger, perhaps wishing to release him the
sooner from insult. Possibly the blow was meant for the tribune. He struck
off that officer's ear, and was immediately dispatched. 
[3.85] Vitellius, compelled by threatening
swords, first to raise his face and offer it to insulting blows, then to
behold his own statues falling round him, and more than once to look at
the Rostra and the spot where Galba was slain, was then driven along till
they reached the Gemoniae, the place where the corpse of Flavius Sabinus
had lain. One speech was heard from him shewing a spirit not utterly degraded,
when to the insults of a tribune he answered, "Yet I was your Emperor."
Then he fell under a shower of blows, and the mob reviled the dead man
with the same heartlessness with which they had flattered him when he was
alive. 
[3.86] Luceria was his native place.
He had nearly completed his 57th year. His consulate, his priesthood, his
high reputation, his place among the first men of the State, he owed, not
to any energy of his own, but to the renown of his father. The throne was
offered him by men who did not know him. Seldom have the affections of
the army attached themselves to any man who sought to gain them by his
virtues as firmly as they did to him from the indolence of his character.
Yet he had a certain frankness and generosity, qualities indeed which turn
to a man's ruin, unless tempered with discretion. Believing that friendship
may be retained by munificent gifts rather than by consistency of character,
he deserved more of it than he secured. Doubtless it was good for the State
that Vitellius should be overthrown, but they who betrayed Vitellius to
Vespasian cannot make a merit of their treachery, since they had themselves
revolted from Galba. The day was now fast drawing to a close, and the Senate
could not be convened, owing to the panic of the magistrates and Senators,
who had stolen out of the city, or were concealing themselves in the houses
of dependants. When nothing more was to be feared from the enemy, Domitian
came forward to meet the leaders of the party; he was universally saluted
by the title of Caesar, and the troops, in great numbers, armed as they
were, conducted him to his father's house. 
Book 4 - (January - November, A.D. 70)
[4.1] WHEN Vitellius was dead, the war
had indeed come to an end, but peace had yet to begin. Sword in hand, throughout
the capital, the conquerors hunted down the conquered with merciless hatred.
The streets were choked with carnage, the squares and temples reeked with
blood, for men were massacred everywhere as chance threw them in the way.
Soon, as their license increased, they began to search for and drag forth
hidden foes. Whenever they saw a man tall and young they cut him down,
making no distinction between soldiers and civilians. But the ferocity,
which in the first impulse of hatred could be gratified only by blood,
soon passed into the greed of gain. They let nothing be kept secret, nothing
be closed; Vitellianists, they pretended, might be thus concealed. Here
was the first step to breaking open private houses; here, if resistance
were made, a pretext for slaughter. The most needy of the populace and
the most worthless of the slaves did not fail to come forward and betray
their wealthy masters; others were denounced by friends. Everywhere were
lamentations, and wailings, and all the miseries of a captured city, till
the license of the Vitellianist and Othonianist soldiery, once so odious,
was remembered with regret. The leaders of the party, so energetic in kindling
civil strife, were incapable of checking the abuse of victory. In stirring
up tumult and strife the worst men can do the most, but peace and quiet
cannot be established without virtue. 
[4.2] Domitian had entered into possession
of the title and residence of Caesar, but not yet applying himself to business,
was playing the part of a son of the throne with debauchery and intrigue.
The office of prefect of the Praetorian Guard was held by Arrius Varus,
but the supreme power was in the hands of Primus Antonius, who carried
off money and slaves from the establishment of the Emperor, as if they
were the spoils of Cremona. The other generals, whose moderation or insignificance
had shut them out from distinction in the war, had accordingly no share
in its prizes. The country, terror-stricken and ready to acquiesce in servitude,
urgently demanded that Lucius Vitellius with his cohorts should be intercepted
on his way from Tarracina, and that the last sparks of war should be trodden
out. The cavalry were sent on to Aricia, the main body of the legions halted
on this side of Bovillae. Without hesitation Vitellius surrendered himself
and his cohorts to the discretion of the conqueror, and the soldiers threw
down their ill-starred arms in rage quite as much as in alarm. The long
train of prisoners, closely guarded by armed men, passed through the capital.
Not one of them wore the look of a suppliant; sullen and savage, they were
unmoved by the shouts and jests of the insulting rabble. A few, who ventured
to break away, were overpowered by the force that hemmed them in; the rest
were thrown into prison. Not one of them uttered an unworthy word; even
in disaster the honour of the soldier was preserved. After this Lucius
Vitellius was executed. Equally vicious with his brother, he had yet shewn
greater vigilance during that brother's reign, and may be said, not so
much to have shared his elevation, as to have been dragged down by his
fall. 
[4.3] About the same time Lucilius Bassus
was sent with some light cavalry to establish order in Campania, where
the towns were still disturbed, but by mutual animosities rather than by
any spirit of opposition to the new Emperor. The sight of the soldiery
restored quiet, and the smaller colonies escaped unpunished. At Capua,
however, the third legion was stationed to pass the winter, and the noble
families suffered severely. Tarracina, on the other hand, received no relief;
so much more inclined are we to requite an injury than an obligation. Gratitude
is a burden, while there seems to be a profit in revenge. They were consoled
by seeing the slave of Verginius Capito, whom I have mentioned as the betrayer
of Tarracina, gibbeted in the very rings of knighthood, the gift of Vitellius,
which they had seen him wear. At Rome the Senate, delighted and full of
confident hope, decreed to Vespasian all the honours customarily bestowed
on the Emperors. And indeed the civil war, which, beginning in Gaul and
Spain, and afterwards drawing into the struggle first Germany and then
Illyricum, had traversed Aegypt, Judaea, and Syria, every province, and
every army, this war, now that the whole earth was, as it were, purged
from guilt, seemed to have reached its close. Their alacrity was increased
by a letter from Vespasian, written during the continuance of the war.
Such indeed was its character at first sight; the writer, however, expressed
himself as an Emperor, speaking modestly about himself, in admirable language
about the State. There was no want of deference on the part of the Senate.
On the Emperor and his son Titus the consulship was bestowed by decree;
on Domitian the office of praetor with consular authority. 
[4.4] Mucianus had also forwarded to
the Senate certain letters which furnished matter for talk. It was said,
"Why, if he is a private citizen, does he speak like a public man?
In a few days' time he might have said the very same words in his place
as a Senator. And even the invective against Vitellius comes too late,
and is ungenerous; while certainly it is arrogance to the State and an
insult to the Emperor to boast that he had the Imperial power in his hands,
and made a present of it to Vespasian." Their dislike, however, was
concealed; their adulation was open enough. In most flattering language
they voted a triumph to Mucianus, a triumph for a civil war, though the
expedition against the Sarmatae was the pretext. On Antonius Primus were
bestowed the insignia of consular rank, on Arrius Varus and Cornelius Fuscus
praetorian honours. Then they remembered the Gods. It was determined that
the Capitol should be restored. All these motions Valerius Asiaticus, consul
elect, proposed. Most of the Senators signified their assent by their looks,
or by raising the hand; but a few, who either held a distinguished rank,
or had a practised talent for flattery, declared their acquiescence in
studied speeches. When it came to the turn of Helvidius Priscus, praetor
elect, to vote, he delivered an opinion, full of respect indeed to a worthy
Emperor, and yet wholly free from insincerity; and he was strongly supported
by the sympathies of the Senate. To Priscus indeed this day was in an especial
manner the beginning of a great quarrel and a great renown. 
[4.5] As I have again happened to mention
a man of whom I shall often have to speak, the subject seems to demand
that I should give a brief account of his life and pursuits, and of his
fortunes. Helvidius Priscus was a native of the town of Carecina in Italy,
and was the son of one Cluvius, who had been a centurion of the first rank.
In early youth he devoted his distinguished talents to the loftiest pursuits,
not wishing, as do many, to cloak under an imposing name a life of indolence,
but to be able to enter upon public life with a spirit fortified against
the chances of fortune. He followed those teachers of philosophy who hold
nothing to be good but what is honourable, nothing evil but what is base,
and who refuse to count either among things good or evil, power, rank,
or indeed any thing not belonging to the mind. While still holding the
quaestorship, he was selected by Paetus Thrasea to be his son-in-law, and
from the example of his father-in-law imbibed with peculiar eagerness a
love of liberty. As a citizen and as a Senator, as a husband, as a son-in-law,
as a friend, and in all the relations of life, he was ever the same, despising
wealth, steadily tenacious of right, and undaunted by danger. 
[4.6] There were some who thought him
too eager for fame, and indeed the desire of glory is the last infirmity
cast off even by the wise. The fall of his father-in-law drove him into
exile, but he returned when Galba mounted the throne, and proceeded to
impeach Marcellus Eprius, who had been the informer against Thrasea. This
retribution, as great as it was just, had divided the Senate into two parties;
for, if Marcellus fell, a whole army of fellow culprits was struck down.
At first there was a fierce struggle, as is proved by the great speeches
delivered by both men. But afterwards, as the feelings of Galba were doubtful,
and many Senators interceded, Priscus dropped the charge, amidst comments
varying with the tempers of men, some praising his moderation, and others
deploring a lack of courage. On the day, however, that the Senate was voting
about the Imperial dignities of Vespasian, it had been resolved that envoys
should be sent to the new Emperor. Hence arose a sharp altercation between
Helvidius and Eprius. Priscus proposed that they should be chosen by name
by the magistrates on oath, Marcellus demanded the ballot; and this had
been the opinion expressed by the Consul elect. 
[4.7] It was the dread of personal humiliation
that made Marcellus so earnest, for he feared that, if others were chosen,
he should himself appear slighted. From an angry conversation they passed
by degrees to long and bitter speeches. Helvidius asked, "Why should
Marcellus be so afraid of the judgment of the magistrates? He has wealth
and eloquence, which might make him superior to many, were he not oppressed
by the consciousness of guilt. The chances of the ballot do not discriminate
men's characters; the voting and the judgment of the Senate were devised
to reach the lives and reputations of individuals. It concerns the interests
of the Commonwealth, it concerns the honour due to Vespasian, that he should
be met by those whom the Senate counts to be peculiarly blameless, and
who may fill the Emperor's ear with honourable counsels. Vespasian was
the friend of Thrasea, Soranus, and Sextius; and the accusers of these
men, though it may not be expedient to punish them, ought not to be paraded
before him. By this selection on the part of the Senate the Emperor will,
so to speak, be advised whom he should mark with approval, and from whom
he should shrink. There can be no more effectual instrument of good government
than good friends. Let Marcellus be satisfied with having urged Nero to
destroy so many innocent victims; let him enjoy the wages of his crimes
and his impunity, but let him leave Vespasian to worthier advisers."

[4.8] Marcellus declared, "It is
not my opinion that is assailed; the Consul elect has made a motion in
accordance with old precedents, which directed the use of the ballot in
the appointment of envoys, in order that there might be no room for intrigue
or private animosities. Nothing has happened why customs of long standing
should fall into disuse, or why the honour due to the Emperor should be
turned into an insult to any man. All Senators are competent to pay their
homage. What we have rather to avoid is this, that a mind unsettled by
the novelty of power, and which will keenly watch the very looks and language
of all, should be irritated by the obstinacy of certain persons. I do not
forget the times in which I have been born, or the form of government which
our fathers and grandfathers established. I may regard with admiration
an earlier period, but I acquiesce in the present, and, while I pray for
good Emperors, I can endure whomsoever we may have. It was not through
my speech any more than it was through the judgment of the Senate that
Thrasea fell. The savage temper of Nero amused itself under these forms,
and I found the friendship of such a Prince as harassing as others found
their exile. Finally, Helvidius may rival the Catos and the Bruti of old
in constancy and courage; I am but one of the Senate which bows to the
same yoke. Besides, I would advise Priscus not to climb higher than the
throne, or to impose his counsels on Vespasian, an old man, who has won
the honours of a triumph, and has two sons grown to manhood. For as the
worst Emperors love an unlimited despotism, so the noblest like some check
on liberty." These speeches, which were delivered with much vehemence
on both sides, were heard with much diversity of feeling. That party prevailed
which preferred that the envoys should be taken by lot, as even the neutral
section in the Senate exerted themselves to retain the old practice, while
the more conspicuous members inclined to the same view, dreading jealousy,
should the choice fall on themselves. 
[4.9] Another struggle ensued. The praetors
of the Treasury (the Treasury was at this time managed by praetors) complained
of the poverty of the State, and demanded a retrenchment of expenditure.
The Consul elect, considering how great was the evil and how difficult
the remedy, was for reserving the matter for the Emperor. Helvidius gave
it as his opinion that measures should be taken at the discretion of the
Senate. When the Consuls came to take the votes, Vulcatius Tertullinus,
tribune of the people, put his veto on any resolution being adopted in
so important a matter in the absence of the Emperor. Helvidius had moved
that the Capitol should be restored at the public expense, and that Vespasian
should give his aid. All the more moderate of the Senators let this opinion
pass in silence, and in time forgot it; but there were some who remembered
it. 
[4.10] Musonius Rufus then made a violent
attack on Publius Celer, accusing him of having brought about the destruction
of Barea Soranus by perjury. By this impeachment all the hatreds of the
days of the informers seemed to be revived; but the accused person was
so worthless and so guilty that he could not be protected. For indeed the
memory of Soranus was held in reverence; Celer had been a professor of
philosophy, and had then given evidence against Barea, thus betraying and
profaning the friendship of which he claimed to be a teacher. The next
day was fixed for the trial. But it was not of Musonius or Publius, it
was of Priscus, of Marcellus, and his brother informers, that men were
thinking, now that their hearts were once roused to vengeance. 
[4.11] While things were in this state,
while there was division in the Senate, resentment among the conquered,
no real authority in the conquerors, and in the country at large no laws
and no Emperor, Mucianus entered the capital, and at once drew all power
into his own hands. The influence of Primus Antonius and Varus Arrius was
destroyed; for the irritation of Mucianus against them, though not revealed
in his looks, was but ill-concealed, and the country, keen to discover
such dislikes, had changed its tone and transferred its homage. He alone
was canvassed and courted, and he, surrounding himself with armed men,
and bargaining for palaces and gardens, ceased not, what with his magnificence,
his proud bearing, and his guards, to grasp at the power, while he waived
the titles of Empire. The murder of Calpurnius Galerianus caused the utmost
consternation. He was a son of Caius Piso, and had done nothing, but a
noble name and his own youthful beauty made him the theme of common talk;
and while the country was still unquiet and delighted in novel topics,
there were persons who associated him with idle rumours of Imperial honours.
By order of Mucianus he was surrounded with a guard of soldiers. Lest his
execution in the capital should excite too much notice, they conducted
him to the fortieth milestone from Rome on the Appian Road, and there put
him to death by opening his veins. Julius Priscus, who had been prefect
of the Praetorian Guard under Vitellius, killed himself rather out of shame
than by compulsion. Alfenius Varus survived the disgrace of his cowardice.
Asiaticus, who was only a freedman, expiated by the death of a slave his
evil exercise of power. 
[4.12] At this time the country was
hearing with anything but sorrow rumours that daily gained strength of
disasters in Germany. Men began to speak of slaughtered armies, of captured
encampments, of Gaul in revolt, as if such things were not calamities.
Beginning at an earlier period I will discuss the causes in which this
war had its origin, and the extent of the movements which it kindled among
independent and allied nations. 
The Batavians, while they dwelt on the other side of the Rhine, formed
a part of the tribe of the Chatti. Driven out by a domestic revolution,
they took possession of an uninhabited district on the extremity of the
coast of Gaul, and also of a neighbouring island, surrounded by the ocean
in front, and by the river Rhine in the rear and on either side. Not weakened
by the power of Rome or by alliance with a people stronger than themselves,
they furnished to the Empire nothing but men and arms. They had had a long
training in the German wars, and they had gained further renown in Britain,
to which country their cohorts had been transferred, commanded, according
to ancient custom, by the noblest men in the nation. They had also at home
a select body of cavalry, who practised with special devotion the art of
swimming, so that they could stem the stream of the Rhine with their arms
and horses, without breaking the order of their squadrons. 
[4.13] Julius Paullus and Claudius Civilis,
scions of the royal family, ranked very high above the rest of their nation.
Paullus was executed by Fonteius Capito on a false charge of rebellion.
Civilis was put in chains and sent to Nero, and, though acquitted by Galba,
again stood in peril of his life in the time of Vitellius, when the army
clamoured for his execution. Here were causes of deep offence; hence arose
hopes built on our disasters. Civilis, however, was naturally politic to
a degree rarely found among barbarians. He was wont to represent himself
as Sertorius or Hannibal, on the strength of a similar disfigurement of
his countenance. To avoid the opposition which he would encounter as a
public enemy, were he openly to revolt from Rome, he affected a friendship
for Vespasian and a zealous attachment to his party; and indeed a letter
had been despatched to him by Primus Antonius, in which he was directed
to divert the reinforcements which Vitellius had called up, and to keep
the legions where they were by the feint of an outbreak in Germany. The
same policy was suggested by Hordeonius in person; he had a bias towards
Vespasian, and feared for the Empire, the utter ruin of which would be
very near, were a fresh war with so many thousands of armed men to burst
upon Italy. 
[4.14] Civilis, who was resolved on
rebellion, and intended, while concealing his ulterior designs, to reveal
his other plans as occasion presented itself, set about the work of revolution
in this way. By command of Vitellius all the Batavian youth was then being
summoned to the conscription, a thing naturally vexatious, and which the
officials made yet more burdensome by their rapacity and profligacy, while
they selected aged and infirm persons, whom they might discharge for a
consideration, and mere striplings, but of distinguished beauty (and many
attained even in boyhood to a noble stature), whom they dragged off for
infamous purposes. This caused indignation, and the ringleaders of the
concerted rebellion prevailed upon the people to refuse the conscription.
Civilis collected at one of the sacred groves, ostensibly for a banquet,
the chiefs of the nation and the boldest spirits of the lower class. When
he saw them warmed with the festivities of the night, he began by speaking
of the renown and glory of their race, and then counted the wrongs and
the oppressions which they endured, and all the other evils of slavery.
"There is," he said, "no alliance, as once there was; we
are treated as slaves. When does even a legate come among us, though he
come only with a burdensome retinue and in all the haughtiness of power?
We are handed over to prefects and centurions, and when they are glutted
with our spoils and our blood, then they are changed, and new receptacles
for plunder, new terms for spoliation, are discovered. Now the conscription
is at hand, tearing, we may say, for ever children from parents, and brothers
from brothers. Never has the power of Rome been more depressed. In the
winter quarters of the legions there is nothing but property to plunder
and a few old men. Only dare to look up, and cease to tremble at the empty
names of legions. For we have a vast force of horse and foot; we have the
Germans our kinsmen; we have Gaul bent on the same objects. Even to the
Roman people this war will not be displeasing; if defeated, we shall still
reckon it a service to Vespasian, and for success no account need be rendered."

[4.15] Having been listened to with
great approval, he bound the whole assembly with barbarous rites and the
national forms of oath. Envoys were sent to the Canninefates to urge a
common policy. This is a tribe which inhabits part of the island, and closely
resembles the Batavians in their origin, their language, and their courageous
character, but is inferior in numbers. After this he sent messengers to
tamper with the British auxiliaries and with the Batavian cohorts, who,
as I have before related, had been sent into Germany, and were then stationed
at Mogontiacum. Among the Canninefates there was a certain Brinno, a man
of a certain stolid bravery and of distinguished birth. His father, after
venturing on many acts of hostility, had scorned with impunity the ridiculous
expedition of Caligula. His very name, the name of a family of rebels,
made him popular. Raised aloft on a shield after the national fashion,
and balanced on the shoulders of the bearers, he was chosen general. Immediately
summoning to arms the Frisii, a tribe of the farther bank of the Rhine,
he assailed by sea the winter quarters of two cohorts, which was the nearest
point to attack. The soldiers had not anticipated the assault of the enemy;
even had they done so, they had not strength to repulse it. Thus the camp
was taken and plundered. Then the enemy fell upon the sutlers and Roman
traders, who were wandering about in every direction, as they would in
a time of peace. At the same time they were on the point of destroying
the forts, but the prefects of the cohorts, seeing that they could not
hold them, set them on fire. The standards, the colours, and what soldiers
there were, concentrated themselves in the upper part of the island under
the command of Aquilius, a centurion of the first rank, an army in name
rather than in strength. Vitellius in fact, after withdrawing the effective
troops from the cohorts, had loaded with arms a crowd of idlers from the
neighbouring villages of the Nervii and the Germans. 
[4.16] Civilis, thinking that he must
proceed by craft, actually blamed the prefects for having deserted the
forts, saying that he would himself, with the cohort under his command,
quell the disturbance among the Canninefates, and that they had better
return to their respective winter quarters. It was evident, however, that
there was some treacherous design beneath this advice, that the cohorts
would be dispersed only to be more easily crushed, and that the guiding
hand in the war was not Brinno but Civilis; for indications of the truth,
which the Germans, a people who delight in war, could not long conceal,
were gradually coming to light. When stratagem proved ineffectual, he resorted
to force, arranging in distinct columns the Canninefates, the Batavians,
and the Frisii. The Roman army was drawn up to meet them not far from the
river Rhine, and the ships, which, after burning the forts, they had stranded
at that point, were arranged so as to front the enemy. Before the struggle
had lasted long, a cohort of Tungrians carried over their standards to
Civilis. The other troops, paralysed by the unexpected desertion, were
cut down alike by friends and foes. In the fleet there was the same treachery.
Some of the rowers were Batavians, and they hindered the operations of
the sailors and combatants by an apparent want of skill; then they began
to back water, and to run the sterns on to the hostile shore. At last they
killed the pilots and centurions, unless these were willing to join them.
The end was that the whole fleet of four and twenty vessels either deserted
or was taken. 
[4.17] For the moment this was a brilliant
success, and it had its use for the future. They possessed themselves of
some arms and some vessels, both of which they wanted, while they became
very famous throughout Germany as the champions of liberty. The tribes
of Germany immediately sent envoys with offers of troops. The co-operation
of Gaul Civilis endeavoured to secure by politic liberality, sending back
to their respective states the captured prefects of cohorts, and giving
permission to their men to go or stay as they preferred. He offered to
those who stayed service on honourable terms, to those who departed the
spoils of the Roman army. At the same time he reminded them in confidential
conversations of the wrongs which they had endured for so many years, while
they falsely gave to a wretched slavery the name of peace. "The Batavians,"
he said, "though free of tribute, have yet taken up arms against our
common masters. In the first conflict the soldiers of Rome have been routed
and vanquished. What will be the result if Gaul throws off the yoke? What
strength is there yet left in Italy? It is by the blood of the provinces
that the provinces are conquered. Think not of how it fared with the armies
of Vindex. It was by Batavian cavalry that the Aedui and the Arverni were
trampled down, and among the auxiliaries of Verginius there were found
Belgian troops. To those who will estimate the matter aright it is evident
that Gaul fell by her own strength. But now all are on the same side, and
we have whatever remnant of military vigour still flourished in the camps
of Rome. With us too are the veteran cohorts to which the legions of Otho
lately succumbed. Let Syria, Asia Minor, and the East, habituated as it
is to despotism, submit to slavery; there are many yet alive in Gaul who
were born before the days of tribute. It was only lately indeed that Quintilius
Varus was slain, and slavery driven out of Germany. And the Emperor who
was challenged by that war was not a Vitellius, but a Caesar Augustus.
Freedom is a gift bestowed by nature even on the dumb animals. Courage
is the peculiar excellence of man, and the Gods help the braver side. Let
us then, who are free to act and vigorous, fall on a distracted and exhausted
enemy. While some are supporting Vespasian, and others Vitellius, opportunities
are opening up for acting against both." 
[4.18] Civilis, bent on winning Gaul
and Germany if his purposes should prosper, was on the point of securing
supremacy over the most powerful and most wealthy of the states. His first
attempts Hordeonius Flaccus had encouraged by affecting ignorance. But
when messengers came hurrying in with intelligence that a camp had been
stormed, that cohorts had been cut to pieces, and that the Roman power
had been expelled from the island of the Batavians, the general ordered
the legate, Munius Lupercus, who was in command of the winter quarters
of two legions, to advance against the enemy. Lupercus in great haste threw
across the Rhine such legionaries as were on the spot, some Ubian troops
who were close at hand, and some cavalry of the Treveri, who were stationed
at no great distance; these were accompanied by some Batavian horse, who,
though they had been long disaffected, yet still simulated loyalty in order
that by betraying the Romans in the moment of actual conflict they might
receive a higher price for their desertion. Civilis, surrounding himself
with the standards of the captured cohorts, to keep their recent honours
before the eyes of his own men, and to terrify the enemy by the remembrance
of defeat, now directed his own mother and sisters, and the wives and children
of all his men, to stand in the rear, where they might encourage to victory,
or shame defeat. The war-song of the men, and the shrill cries of the women,
rose from the whole line, and an answering but far less vigorous cheer,
came from the legions and auxiliaries. The Batavians had exposed the left
wing by their desertion, and they immediately turned against our men. Still
the legionaries, though their position was alarming, kept their arms and
their ranks. The auxiliaries of the Ubii and the Treveri broke at once
in shameful flight, and dispersed over the whole country. On that side
the Germans threw the weight of their attack. Meanwhile the legions had
an opportunity of retreating into what was called the Old Camp. Claudius
Labeo, prefect of the Batavian horse, who had been the rival of Civilis
in some local contest, was sent away into the country of the Frisii; to
kill him might be to give offence to his countrymen, while to keep him
with the army might be to sow the seeds of discord. 
[4.19] About the same time the messenger
despatched by Civilis came up with the cohorts of the Batavians and the
Canninefates, while by the orders of Vitellius they were advancing towards
Rome. At once, inflated with pride and haughtiness, they demanded, by way
of remuneration for their march, a donative, double pay, and an increase
in the number of cavalry, things indeed which Vitellius had promised, but
which they now asked, not with the thought of obtaining them, but as a
pretext for mutiny. Flaccus, by his many concessions, had produced no other
effect but to make them insist with more energy on what they knew he must
refuse. Treating him with contempt, they made their way towards Lower Germany,
to join Civilis. Hordeonius, assembling the tribunes and centurions, asked
their opinion as to whether he should use coercion with those who refused
obedience. Soon, yielding to his natural timidity and to the alarm of his
officers, who were troubled by the suspicious temper of the auxiliaries
and by the fact that the ranks of the legions had been recruited by a hurried
conscription, he resolved to confine his troops to the camp. Then, repenting
of his resolve, and finding that the very men who had advised it now disapproved
it, he seemed bent on pursuing the enemy, and wrote to Herennius Gallus,
legate of the first legion, who was then holding Bonna, that he was to
prevent the Batavians from crossing the Rhine, and that he would himself
hang on their rear with his army. They might have been crushed, if Hordeonius,
moving from one side, and Gallus from the other, had enclosed them between
their armies. But Flaccus abandoned his purpose, and, in other despatches
to Gallus, recommended him not to threaten the departing foe. Thence arose
a suspicion that the war was being kindled with the consent of the legates,
and that everything which had happened, or was apprehended, was due, not
to the cowardice of the troops, or to the strength of the enemy, but to
the treachery of the generals. 
[4.20] When the Batavians were near
the camp at Bonna, they sent on before them delegates, commissioned to
deliver to Herennius Gallus a message from the cohorts. It was to this
effect: "We have no quarrel with the Romans, for whom we have so often
fought. Wearied with a protracted and fruitless service, we long for our
native land and for rest. If no one oppose us, our march will be harmless,
but if an armed force encounter us, we will make a way with the sword."
The soldiers prevailed upon the hesitating legate to risk the chances of
a battle. Three thousand legionaries, some raw Belgian cohorts, and with
them a mob of rustics and camp-followers, cowardly, but bold of speech
before the moment of danger, rushed out of all the gates, thinking to surround
the Batavians, who were inferior in number. But the enemy, being veteran
troops, formed in columns, presenting on every side a dense array, with
front, flanks, and rear secure. Thus they were able to break the thin line
of our soldiers. The Belgians giving way, the legion was driven back, retreating
in confusion on the entrenchments and the gates. It was there that the
greatest slaughter took place. The trenches were heaped up with corpses.
Nor was it only from the deadly blows of the enemy that they suffered;
many perished in the crush and by their own weapons. The victorious army,
who avoided the Colonia Agrippinensis, did not venture on any other hostile
act during the remainder of their march, and excused the conflict at Bonna,
alleging that they had asked for peace, and that when it was refused they
had but looked to their own safety. 
[4.21] Civilis, who now on the arrival
of these veteran cohorts was at the head of a complete army, but who was
undecided in his plans, and still reflected on the power of Rome, made
all who were with him swear allegiance to Vespasian, and sent envoys to
the two legions which after their defeat in the previous engagement had
retreated into the Old Camp, advising them to accept the same allegiance.
Their reply was: "We do not follow the advice of traitors or enemies.
Vitellius is our Emperor; to him we will retain our fealty and devote our
swords till our last breath. Then let not a Batavian refugee affect to
decide the destinies of Rome; let him rather await the merited penalty
of his guilt." When this reply was delivered to Civilis, he was furious
with anger, and hurried the whole Batavian nation into open war. The Bructeri
and the Tencteri joined him, and messengers summoned all Germany to share
in his plunder and his glory. 
[4.22] To meet the threatened dangers
of the gathering war, the legates of the legions, Munius Lupercus and Numisius
Rufus, strengthened their entrenchments and walls. The buildings, which
during a long period of peace had grown up like a town near the camp, were
destroyed, lest they might be useful to the enemy. Little care, however,
was taken about the conveyance of supplies into the camp. These the generals
allowed to be plundered; and so, what might long have sufficed for their
necessities, was wantonly wasted in a few days. Civilis, who occupied the
centre of the army with the elite of the Batavian troops, wishing to add
a new terror to his demonstration, covered both banks of the Rhine with
columns of his German allies, while his cavalry galloped about the plains.
At the same time the fleet was moved up the stream. Here were the standards
of the veteran cohorts; there the images of wild beasts, brought out of
the woods and sacred groves, under the various forms which each tribe is
used to follow into battle, and these mingled emblems of civil and of foreign
warfare utterly confounded the besieged. The extent of the entrenchment
raised the hopes of the besiegers. Constructed for two legions, it was
now held by not more than five thousand Roman soldiers. But there was with
them a great number of camp-followers, who had assembled there on the disturbance
of peace, and who could be employed in the contest. 
[4.23] Part of the camp occupied the
gentle slope of a hill; to part was a level approach. By this encampment
Augustus had thought the German tribes might be watched and checked; never
had he contemplated such a pitch of disaster, as that these tribes should
themselves advance to attack our legions. Hence no labour was bestowed
on the ground or on the defences. Our valour and our arms seemed defence
enough. The Batavians and the Transrhenane tribes took up their position,
each tribe by itself, to distinguish and so the better to display the valour
of each; first annoying us by a distant volley; then, as they found that
very many of their missiles fixed themselves harmlessly in the turrets
and battlements of the walls, and they themselves suffered from the stones
showered down on them, they fell on the entrenchment with a shout and furious
rush, many placing their scaling-ladders against the ramparts, and others
mounting on a testudo formed by their comrades. Some were in the act of
climbing over when they were thrust down by the swords of the enemy, and
fell overwhelmed by a storm of javelins and stakes. Always very daring
at first and excessively elated by success, they now in their eagerness
for plunder bore up against reverse. They also ventured to use what to
them was a novelty, engines of war; they had themselves no skill in handling
them, but the prisoners and deserters taught them to pile up timber in
the shape of a bridge, under which they put wheels, and so propelled it,
some standing on the top, and fighting as they would from an earth-work,
others concealing themselves within and undermining the walls. But the
stones thrown by the catapults prostrated the ill-constructed fabric, and
when they set themselves to prepare hurdles and mantlets, burning spears
were thrown on them by the engines, fire being thus actually used against
the assailants. At last, despairing of success by force, they changed their
plans, and resolved to wait, for they were well aware that only a few days'
provisions were in the camp, and that there was a great crowd on non-combatants;
and they counted at the same time on the treachery that might follow on
scarcity, on the wavering fidelity of the slaves, and on the chances of
war. 
[4.24] Meanwhile Flaccus, who had heard
of the siege of the camp, and had sent into all parts of Gaul to collect
auxiliaries, put under command of Dillius Vocula, legate of the 18th legion,
some troops picked from the legions with orders to hasten by forced marches
along the banks of the Rhine. Flaccus himself, who was weak in health and
disliked by his troops, travelled with the fleet. The troops indeed complained
in unmistakable language that their general had despatched the Batavian
cohorts from Mogontiacum, had feigned ignorance of the plans of Civilis,
and was inviting the German tribes to join the league. "This,"
they said, "has strengthened Vespasian no less than the exertions
of Primus Antonius and Mucianus. Declared enmity and hostility may be openly
repulsed, but treachery and fraud work in darkness, and so cannot be avoided.
Civilis stands in arms against us, and arranges the order of his battle;
Hordeonius from his chamber or his litter gives such orders as may best
serve the enemy. The swords of thousands of brave men are directed by one
old man's sick caprice. How much better by slaying the traitor, to set
free our valour and our fortune from these evil auspices!" The passions
already kindled by the language which they thus held among themselves were
yet more inflamed by a despatch from Vespasian, which Flaccus, finding
that it could not be concealed, read before an assembly of the troops,
sending the persons who had brought it in chains to Vitellius. 
[4.25] With feelings somewhat appeased,
they arrived at Bonna, the winter-camp of the first legion. The troops
there were even more enraged against Hordeonius, and laid on him the blame
of the late disaster. They said that it was by his orders that they had
offered battle to the Batavians, supposing that the legions from Mogontiacum
were following them; that it was through his treachery that they had been
slaughtered, no reinforcements coming up; that all these events were unknown
to the other legions, and were not told to their Emperor, though the sudden
outburst of treason might have been crushed by the prompt action of so
many provinces. Hordeonius read to the army copies of all the letters which
he had sent about Gaul, begging for reinforcements, and established as
a precedent a most disgraceful practice, namely, the handing over the despatches
to the standard-bearers of the legions, through whose means they were read
by the soldiers sooner than by the generals. He then ordered one of the
mutineers to be put in irons, more for the sake of asserting his authority
than because any one man was in fault. The army was then moved from Bonna
to the Colonia Agrippinensis, while auxiliaries from Gaul continued to
flow in; for at first that nation zealously supported the cause of Rome.
Soon indeed as the Germans increased in power, many of the states took
up arms against us, moved by the hope of freedom and, could they once shake
off the yoke, even by the lust of empire. The irritation of the legions
still increased, nor had the imprisonment of a single soldier struck them
with terror. This fellow indeed actually charged the general with complicity;
he had, he said, acted as a messenger between Civilis and Flaccus, and
because he might tell the truth he was now being crushed under a false
charge. With wonderful firmness Vocula ascended the tribunal, and ordered
the man, who had been seized by the lictors, and was loudly remonstrating,
to be led off to execution. All the best men acquiesced in the order, while
the ill-affected were struck with terror. Then, as all with common consent
demanded that Vocula should be their general, Hordeonius handed over to
him the supreme command. 
[4.26] But there were many things to
exasperate the already divided feelings of the soldiery. Pay and provisions
were scanty, Gaul was rebelling against conscription and taxes, while the
Rhine, owing to a drought unexampled in that climate, would hardly admit
of navigation, and thus supplies were straitened at the same time that
outposts had to be established along the entire bank to keep the Germans
from fording the stream; the self-same cause thus bringing about a smaller
supply of grain and a greater number of consumers. Among ignorant persons
the very failure of the stream was regarded as a prodigy, as if the very
rivers, the old defences of the Empire, were deserting us. What, in peace,
would have seemed chance or nature, was now spoken of as destiny and the
anger of heaven. As the army entered Novesium the sixteenth legion joined
it; Herennius Gallus, its legate, was associated with Vocula in the responsibilities
of command. As they did not venture to advance upon the enemy, they constructed
a camp at a place called Gelduba. Here the generals sought to give steadiness
to the troops by such exercises as forming in order of battle, constructing
fortifications, making entrenchments, and whatever else might train them
for war. In the hope that they might be fired to courage by the delights
of plunder, Vocula led the army against the nearest villages of the Gugerni,
who had accepted the alliance of Civilis. Some of the troops remained permanently
with Herennius Gallus. 
[4.27] One day it happened that at no
great distance from the camp the Germans were endeavouring to drag off
to their own bank a vessel laden with corn, which had run aground in the
shallows. Gallus could not endure this, and sent a cohort to help. The
numbers of the Germans also increased; as fresh troops continued to join
both sides, a regular battle ensued. The Germans, besides inflicting great
loss on our men, carried off the vessel. The vanquished troops, following
what had become a regular practice, laid the blame not on their own cowardice,
but on supposed treachery in the legate. Dragged out of his tent, his garments
torn, and his person severely beaten, he was commanded to declare for what
bribe and with what accomplices he had betrayed the army. Their old hatred
of Hordeonius reappeared. He, they declared, was the instigator of the
crime, Gallus his tool. At last, utterly terrified by their threats of
instant death, the legate himself charged Hordeonius with treachery. He
was then put in irons, and only released on the arrival of Vocula, who
the next day inflicted capital punishment on the ringleaders of the mutiny;
such wide extremes of license and of subordination were to be found in
that army. The common soldiers were undoubtedly loyal to Vitellius, but
all the most distinguished men were in favour of Vespasian. The result
was an alternation of outbreaks and executions, and a strange mixture of
obedience and frenzy, which made it impossible to restrain the men whom
it was yet possible to punish. 
[4.28] Meanwhile all Germany was raising
the power of Civilis by vast additions of strength, and the alliance was
secured by hostages of the noblest rank. He directed that the territories
of the Ubii and the Treveri should be ravaged by the several tribes on
which they bordered, and that another detachment should cross the river
Mosa, to threaten the Menapii and the Morini and the frontiers of Gaul.
In both quarters plunder was collected; with peculiar hostility in the
case of the Ubii, because, this nation, being of German origin, had forsworn
its native country, and assumed the Roman name of the Agrippinenses. Their
cohorts were cut up at the village of Marcodurum, where they lay in careless
security, presuming on their distance from the river-bank. The Ubii did
not remain quiet, but made predatory excursions into Germany, escaping
at first with impunity, though they were afterwards cut off. Throughout
the whole of this war, they were more loyal than fortunate. Civilis, grown
more formidable now that the Ubii had been crushed, and elated by the success
of his operations, pressed on the siege of the legions, keeping a strict
watch to prevent any secret intelligence of advancing succours from reaching
them. He entrusted to the Batavians the care of the machines and the vast
siege-works, and when the Transrhenane tribes clamoured for battle, he
bade them go and cut through the ramparts, and, if repulsed, renew the
struggle; their numbers were superfluously large, and their loss was not
felt. Even darkness did not terminate the struggle. 
[4.29] Piling up logs of wood round
the walls and lighting them, they sat feasting, and rushed to the conflict,
as each grew heated with wine, with a useless daring. Their missiles were
discharged without effect in the darkness, but to the Romans the ranks
of the barbarians were plainly discernible, and they singled out with deliberate
aim anyone whose boldness or whose decorations made him conspicuous. Civilis
saw this, and, extinguishing the fires, threw the confusion of darkness
over the attack. Then ensued a scene of discordant clamour, of accident,
and uncertainty, where no one could see how to aim or to avoid a blow.
Wherever a shout was heard, they wheeled round and strained hand and foot.
Valour was of no avail, accident disturbed every plan, and the bravest
frequently were struck down by the missiles of the coward. The Germans
fought with inconsiderate fury; our men, more alive to the danger, threw,
but not at random, stakes shod with iron and heavy stones. Where the noise
of the assailants was heard, or where the ladders placed against the walls
brought the enemy within reach of their hands, they pushed them back with
their shields, and followed them with their javelins. Many, who had struggled
on to the walls, they stabbed with their short swords. After a night thus
spent, day revealed a new method of attack. 
[4.30] The Batavians had raised a tower
two stories high, which they brought up to the Praetorian gate of the camp,
where the ground was most level. But our men, pushing forward strong poles,
and battering it with beams, broke it down, causing great destruction among
the combatants on the top. The enemy were attacked in their confusion by
a sudden and successful sally. All this time many engines were constructed
by the legionaries, who were superior to the enemy in experience and skill.
Peculiar consternation was caused by a machine, which, being poised in
the air over the heads of the enemy, suddenly descended, and carried up
one or more of them past the faces of their friends, and then, by a shifting
of the weights, projected them within the limits of the camp. Civilis,
giving up all hope of a successful assault, again sat down to blockade
the camp at his leisure, and undermined the fidelity of the legions by
the promises of his emissaries. 
[4.31] All these events in Germany took
place before the battle of Cremona, the result of which was announced in
a despatch from Antonius, accompanied by Caecina's proclamation. Alpinius
Montanus, prefect of a cohort in the vanquished army, was on the spot,
and acknowledged the fate of his party. Various were the emotions thus
excited; the Gallic auxiliaries, who felt neither affection nor hatred
towards either party, and who served without attachment, at once, at the
instance of their prefects, deserted Vitellius. The veteran soldiers hesitated.
Nevertheless, when Hordeonius administered the oath, under a strong pressure
from their tribunes, they pronounced the words, which their looks and their
temper belied, and while they adopted every other expression, they hesitated
at the name of Vespasian, passing it over with a slight murmur, and not
unfrequently in absolute silence. 
[4.32] After this, certain letters from
Antonius to Civilis were read in full assembly, and provoked the suspicions
of the soldiery, as they seemed to be addressed to a partisan of the cause
and to be unfriendly to the army of Germany. Soon the news reached the
camp at Gelduba, and the same language and the same acts were repeated.
Montanus was sent with a message to Civilis, bidding him desist from hostilities,
and not seek to conceal the designs of an enemy by fighting under false
colours, and telling him that, if he had been attempting to assist Vespasian,
his purpose had been fully accomplished. Civilis at first replied in artful
language, but soon perceiving that Montanus was a man of singularly high
spirit and was himself disposed for change, he began with lamenting the
perils through which he had struggled for five-and-twenty years in the
camps of Rome. "It is," he said, "a noble reward that I
have received for my toils; my brother murdered, myself imprisoned, and
the savage clamour of this army, a clamour which demanded my execution,
and for which by the law of nations I demand vengeance. You, Treveri, and
other enslaved creatures, what reward do you expect for the blood which
you have shed so often? What but a hateful service, perpetual tribute,
the rod, the axe, and the passions of a ruling race? See how I, the prefect
of a single cohort, with the Batavians and the Canninefates, a mere fraction
of Gaul, have destroyed their vast but useless camps, or are pressing them
with the close blockade of famine and the sword. In a word, either freedom
will follow on our efforts, or, if we are vanquished, we shall but be what
we were before." Having thus fired the man's ambition, Civilis dismissed
him, but bade him carry back a milder answer. He returned, pretending to
have failed in his mission, but not revealing the other facts; these indeed
soon came to light. 
[4.33] Civilis, retaining a part of
his forces, sent the veteran cohorts and the bravest of his German troops
against Vocula and his army, under the command of Julius Maximus and Claudius
Victor, his sister's son. On their march they plundered the winter camp
of a body of horse stationed at Ascibergium, and they fell on Vocula's
camp so unexpectedly that he could neither harangue his army, nor even
get it into line. All that he could do in the confusion was to order the
veteran troops to strengthen the centre. The auxiliaries were dispersed
in every part of the field. The cavalry charged, but, received by the orderly
array of the enemy, fled to their own lines. What ensued was a massacre
rather than a battle. The Nervian infantry, from panic or from treachery,
exposed the flank of our army. Thus the attack fell upon the legions, who
had lost their standards and were being cut down within the entrenchments,
when the fortune of the day was suddenly changed by a reinforcement of
fresh troops. Some Vascon infantry, levied by Galba, which had by this
time been sent for, heard the noise of the combatants as they approached
the camp, attacked the rear of the preoccupied enemy, and spread a panic
more than proportionate to their numbers, some believing that all the troops
from Novesium, others that all from Mogontiacum, had come up. This delusion
restored the courage of the Romans, and in relying on the strength of others
they recovered their own. All the bravest of the Batavians, of the infantry
at least, fell, but the cavalry escaped with the standards and with the
prisoners whom they had secured in the early part of the engagement. Of
the slain on that day the greater number belonged to our army, but to its
less effective part. The Germans lost the flower of their force. 
[4.34] The two generals were equally
blameworthy; they deserved defeat, they did not make the most of success.
Had Civilis given battle in greater force, he could not have been outflanked
by so small a number of cohorts, and he might have destroyed the camp after
once forcing an entrance. As for Vocula, he did not reconnoitre the advancing
enemy, and consequently he was vanquished as soon as be left the camp;
and then, mistrusting his victory, he fruitlessly wasted several days before
marching against the enemy, though, had he at once resolved to drive them
back, and to follow up his success, he might, by one and the same movement,
have raised the siege of the legions. Meanwhile Civilis had tried to work
on the feelings of the besieged by representing that with the Romans all
was lost, and that victory had declared for his own troops. The standards
and colours were carried round the ramparts, and the prisoners also were
displayed. One of them, with noble daring, declared the real truth in a
loud voice, and, as he was cut down on the spot by the Germans, all the
more confidence was felt in his information. At the same time it was becoming
evident, from the devastation of the country and from the flames of burning
houses, that the victorious army was approaching. Vocula issued orders
that the standards should be planted within sight of the camp, and should
be surrounded with a ditch and rampart, where his men might deposit their
knapsacks, and so fight without encumbrance. On this, the General was assailed
by a clamorous demand for instant battle. They had now grown used to threaten.
Without even taking time to form into line, disordered and weary as they
were, they commenced the action. Civilis was on the field, trusting quite
as much to the faults of his adversaries as to the valour of his own troops.
With the Romans the fortune of the day varied, and the most violently mutinous
shewed themselves cowards. But some, remembering their recent victory,
stood their ground and struck fiercely at the foe, now encouraging each
other and their neighbours, and now, while they re-formed their lines,
imploring the besieged not to lose the opportunity. These latter, who saw
everything from the walls, sallied out from every gate. It so happened
that Civilis was thrown to the ground by the fall of his horse. A report
that he had been either wounded or slain gained belief throughout both
armies, and spread incredible panic among his own troops, and gave as great
encouragement to their opponents. But Vocula, leaving the flying foe, began
to strengthen the rampart and the towers of the camp, as if another siege
were imminent. He had misused success so often that he was rightly suspected
of a preference for war. 
[4.35] Nothing distressed our troops
so much as the scarcity of supplies. The baggage of the legions was therefore
sent to Novesium with a crowd of non-combatants to fetch corn from that
place overland, for the enemy commanded the river. The march of the first
body was accomplished in security, as Civilis had not yet recovered. But
when he heard that officers of the commissariat had been again sent to
Novesium, and that the infantry detached as an escort were advancing just
as if it were a time of profound peace, with but few soldiers round the
standards, the arms stowed away in the wagons, and all wandering about
at their pleasure, he attacked them in regular form, having first sent
on troops to occupy the bridges and the defiles in the road. The battle
extended over a long line of march, lasting with varying success till night
parted the combatants. The infantry pushed on to Gelduba, while the camp
remained in the same state as before, garrisoned by such troops as had
been left in it. There could be no doubt what peril a convoy, heavily laden
and panic-stricken, would have to encounter in attempting to return. Vocula
added to his force a thousand picked men from the fifth and fifteenth legions
besieged in the Old Camp, a body of troops undisciplined and ill-affected
to their officers. But more than the number specified came forward, and
openly protested, as they marched, that they would not endure any longer
the hardships of famine and the treachery of the legates. On the other
hand, those who had stayed behind complained that they were, being left
to their fate by this withdrawal of a part of the legions. A twofold mutiny
was the result, some calling upon Vocula to come back, while the others
refused to return to the camp. 
[4.36] Meanwhile Civilis blockaded the
Old Camp. Vocula retired first to Gelduba, after, wards to Novesium; Civilis
took possession of Gelduba, and not long after was victorious in a cavalry
engagement near Novesium. But reverses and successes seemed equally to
kindle in the troops the one desire of murdering their officers. The legions,
increased in number by the arrival of the men from the fifth and fifteenth,
demanded a donative, for they had discovered that some money had been sent
by Vitellius. After a short delay Hordeonius gave the donative in the name
of Vespasian. This, more than anything else, fostered the mutinous spirit.
The men, abandoning themselves to debauchery and revelry and all the license
of nightly gatherings, revived their old grudge against Hordeonius. Without
a single legate or tribune venturing to check them, for the darkness seems
to have taken from them all sense of shame, they dragged him out of his
bed and killed him. The same fate was intended for Vocula, but he assumed
the dress of a slave, and escaped unrecognized in the darkness. When their
fury had subsided and their alarm returned, they sent centurions with despatches
to the various states of Gaul, imploring help in money and troops. 
[4.37] These men, headstrong, cowardly,
and spiritless, as a mob without a leader always is, on the approach of
Civilis hastily took up arms, and, as hastily abandoning them, betook themselves
to flight. Disaster produced disunion, the troops from the Upper army dissociating
their cause from that of their comrades. Nevertheless the statues of Vitellius
were again set up in the camp and in the neighbouring Belgian towns, and
this at a time when Vitellius himself had fallen. Then the men of the 1st,
the 4th, and the 18th legions, repenting of their conduct, followed Vocula,
and again taking in his presence the oath of allegiance to Vespasian, were
marched by him to the relief of Mogontiacum. The besieging army, an heterogeneous
mass of Chatti, Usipii, and Mattiaci, had raised the siege, glutted with
spoils, but not without suffering loss. Our troops attacked them on the
way, dispersed and unprepared. Moreover the Treveri had constructed a breastwork
and rampart across their territory, and they and the Germans continued
to contend with great losses on both sides up to the time when they tarnished
by rebellion their distinguished services to the Roman people. 
[4.38] Meanwhile Vespasian (now consul
for the second time) and Titus entered upon their office, both being absent
from Rome. People were gloomy and anxious under the pressure of manifold
fears, for, over and above immediate perils, they had taken groundless
alarm under the impression that Africa was in rebellion through the revolutionary
movements of Lucius Piso. He was governor of that province, and was far
from being a man of turbulent disposition. The fact was that the wheat-ships
were detained by the severity of the weather, and the lower orders, who
were accustomed to buy their provisions from day to day, and to whom cheap
corn was the sole subject of public interest, feared and believed that
the ports had been closed and the supplies stopped, the Vitellianists,
who had not yet given up their party feelings, helping to spread the report,
which was not displeasing even to the conquerors. Their ambition, which
even foreign campaigns could not fill to the full, was not satisfied by
any triumphs that civil war could furnish. 
[4.39] On the 1st of January, at a meeting
of the Senate, convoked for the purpose by Julius Frontinus, praetor of
the city, votes of thanks were passed to the legates, to the armies, and
to the allied kings. The office of praetor was taken away from Tettius
Julianus, as having deserted his legion when it passed over to the party
of Vespasian, with a view to its being transferred to Plotius Griphus.
Equestrian rank was conferred on Hormus. Then, on the resignation of Frontinus,
Caesar Domitian assumed the office of praetor of the city. His name was
put at the head of despatches and edicts, but the real authority was in
the hands of Mucianus, with this exception, that Domitian ventured on several
acts of power, at the instigation of his friends, or at his own caprice.
But Mucianus found his principal cause of apprehension in Primus Antonius
and Varus Arrius, who, in the freshness of their fame, while distinguished
by great achievements and by the attachment of the soldiery, were also
supported by the people, because in no case had they extended their severities
beyond the battle-field. It was also reported that Antonius had urged Scribonianus
Crassus, whom an illustrious descent added to the honours of his brother
made a conspicuous person, to assume the supreme power; and it was understood
that a number of accomplices would not have failed to support him, had
not the proposal been rejected by Scribonianus, who was a man not easily
to be tempted even by a certainty, and was proportionately apprehensive
of risk. Mucianus, seeing that Antonius could not be openly crushed, heaped
many praises upon him in the Senate, and loaded him with promises in secret,
holding out as a prize the government of Eastern Spain, then vacant in
consequence of the departure of Cluvius Rufus. At the same time he lavished
on his friends tribuneships and prefectures; and then, when he had filled
the vain heart of the man with hope and ambition, he destroyed his power
by sending into winter quarters the 7th legion, whose affection for Antonius
was particularly vehement. The 3rd legion, old troops of Varus Arrius,
were sent back to Syria. Part of the army was on its way to Germany. Thus
all elements of disturbance being removed, the usual appearance of the
capital, the laws, and the jurisdiction of the magistrates, were once more
restored. 
[4.40] Domitian, on the day of his taking
his seat in the Senate, made a brief and measured speech in reference to
the absence of his father and brother, and to his own youth. He was graceful
in his bearing, and, his real character being yet unknown, the frequent
blush on his countenance passed for modesty. On his proposing the restoration
of the Imperial honours of Galba, Curtius Montanus moved that respect should
also be paid to the memory of Piso. The Senate passed both motions, but
that which referred to Piso was not carried out. Certain commissioners
were then appointed by lot, who were to see to the restitution of property
plundered during the war, to examine and restore to their place the brazen
tables of the laws, which had fallen down through age, to free the Calendar
from the additions with which the adulatory spirit of the time had disfigured
it, and to put a check on the public expenditure. The office of praetor
was restored to Tettius Julianus, as soon as it was known that he had fled
for refuge to Vespasian. Griphus still retained his rank. It was then determined
that the cause of Musonius Rufus against Publius Celer should be again
brought on. Publius was condemned, and thus expiation was made to the shade
of Soranus. The day thus marked by an example of public justice was not
barren of distinction to individuals. Musonius was thought to have fulfilled
the righteous duty of an accuser, but men spoke very differently of Demetrius,
a disciple of the Cynical school of philosophy, who pleaded the cause of
a notorious criminal by appeals to corrupt influences rather than by fair
argument. Publius himself, in his peril, had neither spirit nor power of
speech left. The signal for vengeance on the informers having been thus
given, Junius Mauricus asked Caesar to give the Senate access to the Imperial
registers, from which they might learn what impeachments the several informers
had proposed. Caesar answered, that in a matter of such importance the
Emperor must be consulted. 
[4.41] The Senate, led by its principal
members, then framed a form of oath, which was eagerly taken by all the
magistrates and by the other Senators in the order in which they voted.
They called the Gods to witness, that nothing had been done by their instrumentality
to prejudice the safety of any person, and that they had gained no distinction
or advantage by the ruin of Roman citizens. Great was the alarm, and various
the devices for altering the words of the oath, among those who felt the
consciousness of guilt. The Senate appreciated the scruple, but denounced
the perjury. This public censure, as it might be called, fell with especial
severity on three men, Sariolenus Vocula, Nonnius Attianus, and Cestius
Severus, all of them infamous for having practised the trade of the informer
in the days of Nero. Sariolenus indeed laboured under an imputation of
recent date. It was said that he had attempted the same practices during
the reign of Vitellius. The Senators did not desist from threatening gestures,
till he quitted the chamber; then passing to Paccius Africanus, they assailed
him in the same way. It was he, they said, who had singled out as victims
for Nero the brothers Scribonius, renowned for their mutual affection and
for their wealth. Africanus dared not confess his guilt, and could not
deny it; but he himself turned on Vibius Crispus, who was pressing him
with questions, and complicating a charge which he could not rebut, shifted
the blame from himself by associating another with his guilt. 
[4.42] Great was the reputation for
brotherly affection, as well as for eloquence, which Vipstanus Messalla
earned for himself on that day, by venturing, though not yet of Senatorial
age, to plead for his brother Aquilius Regulus. The fall of the families
of the Crassi and Orfitus had brought Regulus into the utmost odium. Of
his own free will, as it seemed, and while still a mere youth, he had undertaken
the prosecution, not to ward off any peril from himself, but in the hope
of gaining power. The wife of Crassus, Sulpicia Praetextata, and her four
children were ready, should the Senate take cognizance of the cause, to
demand vengeance. Accordingly, Messalla, without attempting to defend the
case or the person accused, had simply thrown himself in the way of the
perils that threatened his brother, and had thus wrought upon the feelings
of several Senators. On this Curtius Montanus met him with a fierce speech,
in which he went to the length of asserting, that after the death of Galba,
money had been given by Regulus to the murderer of Piso, and that he had
even fastened his teeth in the murdered man's head. "Certainly,"
he said, "Nero did not compel this act; you did not secure by this
piece of barbarity either your rank or your life. We may bear with the
defence put forward by men who thought it better to destroy others than
to come into peril themselves. As for you, the exile of your father, and
the division of his property among his creditors, had left you perfectly
safe, besides that your youth incapacitated you for office; there was nothing
in you which Nero could either covet or dread. It was from sheer lust of
slaughter and greed of gain that you, unknown as you were, you, who had
never pleaded in any man's defence, steeped your soul in noble blood, when,
though you had snatched from the very grave of your Country the spoils
of a man of consular rank, had been fed to the full with seven million
sesterces, and shone with all sacerdotal honours, you yet overwhelmed in
one common ruin innocent boys, old men of illustrious name, and noble ladies,
when you actually blamed the tardy movements of Nero in wearying himself
and his informers with the overthrow of single families, and declared that
the whole Senate might be destroyed by one word. Keep, Conscript Fathers,
preserve a man of such ready counsels, that every age may be furnished
with its teacher, and that our young men may imitate Regulus, just as our
old men imitate Marcellus and Crispus. Even unsuccessful villany finds
some to emulate it: what will happen, if it flourish and be strong? And
the man, whom we dare not offend when he holds only quaestor's rank, are
we to see him rise to the dignities of praetor and consul? Do you suppose
that Nero will be the last of the tyrants? Those who survived Tiberius,
those who survived Caligula, thought the same; and yet after each there
arose another ruler yet more detestable and more cruel. We are not afraid
of Vespasian; the age and moderation of the new Emperor reassure us. But
the influence of an example outlives the individual character. We have
lost our vigour, Conscript Fathers; we are no longer that Senate, which,
when Nero had fallen, demanded that the informers and ministers of the
tyrant should be punished according to ancient custom. The first day after
the downfall of a wicked Emperor is the best of opportunities." 
[4.43] Montanus was heard with such
approval on the part of the Senate, that Helvidius conceived a hope that
Marcellus also might be overthrown. He therefore began with a panegyric
on Cluvius Rufus, who, though not less rich nor less renowned for eloquence,
had never imperilled a single life in the days of Nero. By this comparison,
as well as by direct accusations, he pressed Eprius hard, and stirred the
indignation of the Senators. When Marcellus perceived this, he made as
if he would leave the House, exclaiming, "We go, Priscus, and leave
you your Senate; act the king, though Caesar himself be present."
Crispus followed. Both were enraged, but their looks were different; Marcellus
cast furious glances about him, while Crispus smiled. They were drawn back,
however, into the Senate by the hasty interference of friends. The contest
grew fiercer, while the well-disposed majority on the one side, and a powerful
minority on the other, fought out their obstinate quarrel, and thus the
day was spent in altercation. 
[4.44] At the next meeting of the Senate
Caesar began by recommending that the wrongs, the resentments, and the
terrible necessities of former times, should be forgotten, and Mucianus
spoke at great length in favour of the informers. At the same time he admonished
in gentle terms and in a tone of entreaty those who were reviving indictments,
which they had before commenced and afterwards dropped. The Senators, when
they found themselves opposed, relinquished the liberty which they had
begun to exercise. That it might not be thought that the opinion of the
Senate was disregarded, or that impunity was accorded to all acts done
in the days of Nero, Mucianus sent back to their islands two men of Senatorial
rank, Octavius Sagitta and Antistius Sosianus, who had quitted their places
of banishment. Octavius had seduced one Pontia Postumia, and, on her refusing
to marry him, in the frenzy of passion had murdered her. Sosianus by his
depravity had brought many to ruin. Both had been condemned and banished
by a solemn decision of the Senate, and, though others were permitted to
return, were kept under the same penalty. But this did not mitigate the
hatred felt against Mucianus. Sosianus and Sagitta were utterly insignificant,
even if they did return; but men dreaded the abilities of the informers,
their wealth, and the power which they exercised in many sinister ways.

[4.45] A trial, conducted in the Senate
according to ancient precedents, brought into harmony for a time the feelings
of its members. Manlius Patruitus, a Senator, laid a complaint, that he
had been beaten by a mob in the colony of Sena, and that by order of the
magistrates; that the wrong had not stopped here, but that lamentations
and wailings, in fact a representation of funeral obsequies, had been enacted
in his presence, accompanied with contemptuous and insulting expressions
levelled against the whole Senate. The persons accused were summoned to
appear, and after the case had been investigated, punishment was inflicted
on those who were found guilty. A resolution of the Senate was also passed,
recommending more orderly behaviour to the people of Sena. About the same
time Antonius Flamma was condemned under the law against extortion, at
the suit of the people of Cyrene, and was banished for cruel practices.

[4.46] Amidst all this a mutiny in the
army all but broke out. The troops who, having been disbanded by Vitellius,
had flocked to support Vespasian, asked leave to serve again in the Praetorian
Guard, and the soldiers who had been selected from the legions with the
same prospect now clamoured for their promised pay. Even the Vitellianists
could not be got rid of without much bloodshed. But the money required
for retaining in the service so vast a body of men was immensely large.
Mucianus entered the camp to examine more accurately the individual claims.
The victorious army, wearing their proper decorations and arms, he drew
up with moderate intervals of space between the divisions; then the Vitellianists,
whose capitulation at Bovillae I have already related, and the other troops
of the party, who had been collected from the capital and its neighbourhood,
were brought forth almost naked. Mucianus ordered these men to be drawn
up apart, making the British, the German, and any other troops that there
were belonging to other armies, take up separate positions. The very first
view of their situation paralyzed them. They saw opposed to them what seemed
a hostile array, threatening them with javelin and sword. They saw themselves
hemmed in, without arms, filthy and squalid. And when they began to be
separated, some to be marched to one spot, and some to another, a thrill
of terror ran through them all. Among the troops from Germany the panic
was particularly great; for they believed that this separation marked them
out for slaughter. They embraced their fellow soldiers, clung to their
necks, begged for parting kisses, and entreated that they might not be
deserted, or doomed in a common cause to suffer a different lot. They invoked
now Mucianus, now the absent Emperor, and, as a last resource, heaven and
the Gods, till Mucianus came forward, and calling them "soldiers bound
by the same oath and servants of the same Emperor," stopped the groundless
panic. And indeed the victorious army seconded the tears of the vanquished
with their approving shouts. This terminated the proceedings for that day.
But when Domitian harangued them a few days afterwards, they received him
with increased confidence. The land that was offered them they contemptuously
rejected, and begged for regular service and pay. Theirs were prayers indeed,
but such as it was impossible to reject. They were therefore received into
the Praetorian camp. Then such as had reached the prescribed age, or had
served the proper number of campaigns, received an honourable discharge;
others were dismissed for misconduct; but this was done by degrees and
in detail, always the safest mode of reducing the united strength of a
multitude. 
[4.47] It is a fact that, whether suggested
by real poverty or by a wish to give the appearance of it, a proposition
passed the Senate to the effect that a loan of sixty million sesterces
from private persons should be accepted. Pompeius Silvanus was appointed
to manage the affair. Before long, either the necessity ceased or the pretence
was dropped. After this, on the motion of Domitian, the consulships conferred
by Vitellius were cancelled, and the honours of a censor's funeral were
paid to Sabinus; great lessons both of the mutability of fortune, ever
bringing together the highest honours and the lowest humiliations. 
[4.48] About the same time the proconsul
Lucius Piso was murdered. I shall make the account of this murder as exact
as possible by first reviewing a few earlier circumstances, which have
a bearing on the origin and motives of such deeds. The legion and the auxiliaries
stationed in Africa to guard the frontiers of the Empire were under the
proconsul's authority during the reigns of the divine Augustus and Tiberius.
But in course of time Caligula, prompted by his restless temper and by
his fear of Marcus Silanus, who then held Africa, took away the legion
from the proconsul, and handed it over to a legate whom he sent for that
purpose. The patronage was equally divided between the two officers. A
source of disagreement was thus studiously sought in the continual clashing
of their authority, and it was further developed by an unprincipled rivalry.
The power of the legates grew through their lengthened tenure of office,
and, perhaps, because an inferior feels greater interest in such a competition.
All the more distinguished of the proconsuls cared more for security than
for power. 
[4.49] At this time the legion in Africa
was commanded by Valerius Festus, a young man of extravagant habits and
immoderate ambition, who was now made uneasy by his relationship to Vitellius.
Whether this man in their frequent interviews tempted Piso to revolt, or
whether he resisted such overtures, is not known for certain, for no one
was present at their confidential meetings, and, after Piso's death, many
were disposed to ingratiate themselves with the murderer. There is no doubt
that the province and the troops entertained feelings of hostility to Vespasian,
and some of the Vitellianists, who had escaped from the capital, incessantly
represented to Piso that Gaul was hesitating and Germany ready to revolt,
that his own position was perilous, and that for one who in peace must
be suspected, war was the safer course. While this was going on, Claudius
Sagitta, prefect of Petra's Horse, making a very quick passage, reached
Africa before Papirius, the centurion despatched by Mucianus. He declared
that an order to put Piso to death had been given to the centurion, and
that Galerianus, his cousin and son-in-law, had perished; that his only
hope of safety was in bold action; that in such action two paths were open;
he might defend himself on the spot, or he might sail for Gaul and offer
his services as general to the Vitellianist armies. Piso was wholly unmoved
by this statement. The centurion despatched by Mucianus, on landing in
the port of Carthage, raised his voice, and invoked in succession all blessings
on the head of Piso, as if he were Emperor, and bade the bystanders, who
were astonished by this sudden and strange proceeding, take up the same
cry. The credulous mob rushed into the market-place, and demanded that
Piso should shew himself. They threw everything into an uproar with their
clamorous shouts of joy, careless of the truth, and only eager to flatter.
Piso, acting on the information of Sagitta, or, perhaps, from natural modesty,
would not make his appearance in public, or trust himself to the zeal of
the populace. On questioning the centurion, and finding that he had sought
a pretext for accusing and murdering him, he ordered the man to be executed,
moved, not so much by any hope of saving his life, as by indignation against
the assassin; for this fellow had been one of the murderers of Macer, and
was now come to slay the proconsul with hands already stained with the
blood of the legate. He then severely blamed the people of Carthage in
an edict which betrayed his anxiety, and ceased to discharge even the usual
duties of his office, shutting himself up in his palace, to guard against
any casual occurrence that might lead to a new outbreak. 
[4.50] But when the agitation of the
people, the execution of the centurion, and other news, true or false,
exaggerated as usual by report, came to the ears of Festus, he sent some
cavalry to put Piso to death. They rode over at full speed, and broke into
the dwelling of the proconsul in the dim light of early dawn, with their
swords drawn in their hands. Many of them were unacquainted with the person
of Piso, for the legate had selected some Moorish and Carthaginian auxiliaries
to perpetrate the deed. Near the proconsul's chamber they chanced to meet
a slave, and asked him who he was, and where Piso was to be found? The
slave with a noble untruth replied, "I am he," and was immediately
cut down. Soon after Piso was killed, for there was on the spot one who
recognized him, Baebius Massa, one of the procurators of Africa, a name
even then fatal to the good, and destined often to reappear among the causes
of the sufferings which he had ere long to endure. From Adrumetum, where
he had stayed to watch the result, Festus went to the legion, and gave
orders that Cetronius Pisanus, prefect of the camp, should be put in irons.
He did this out of private pique, but he called the man an accomplice of
Piso. Some few centurions and soldiers he punished, others he rewarded,
neither the one nor the other deservedly, but he wished men to believe
that he had extinguished a war. He then put an end to a quarrel between
the Censes and the Leptitani, which, originating in robberies of corn and
cattle by two rustic populations, had grown from this insignificant beginning
till it was carried on in pitched battles. The people of Ceea, who were
inferior in numbers, had summoned to their aid the Garamantes, a wild race
incessantly occupied in robbing their neighbours. This had brought the
Leptitani to extremities; their territories had been ravaged far and wide,
and they were trembling within their walls, when the Garamantes were put
to flight by the arrival of the auxiliary infantry and cavalry, and the
whole of the booty was recaptured, with the exception of some which the
plunderers, in their wanderings through inaccessible hamlets, had sold
to more distant tribes. 
[4.51] Vespasian had heard of the victory
of Cremona, and had received favourable tidings from all quarters, and
he was now informed of the fall of Vitellius by many persons of every rank,
who, with a good fortune equal to their courage, risked the perils of the
wintry sea. Envoys had come from king Vologesus to offer him 40,000 Parthian
cavalry. It was a matter of pride and joy to him to be courted with such
splendid offers of help from the allies, and not to want them. He thanked
Vologesus, and recommended him to send ambassadors to the Senate, and to
learn for himself that peace had been restored. While his thoughts were
fixed on Italy and on the state of the Capital, he heard an unfavourable
account of Domitian, which represented him as overstepping the limits of
his age and the privileges of a son. He therefore entrusted Titus with
the main strength of the army to complete what had yet to be done in the
Jewish war. 
[4.52] It was said that Titus before
his departure had a long interview with his father, in which he implored
him not to let himself be easily excited by the reports of slanderers,
but to shew an impartial and forgiving temper towards his son. "Legions
and fleets," he reminded him, "are not such sure bulwarks of
Imperial power as a numerous family. As for friends, time, altered fortunes,
perhaps their passions or their errors, may weaken, may change, may even
destroy, their affection. A man's own race can never be dissociated from
him, least of all with Princes, whose prosperity is shared by others, while
their reverses touch but their nearest kin. Even between brothers there
can be no lasting affection, except the father sets the example."
Vespasian, delighted with the brotherly affection of Titus rather than
reconciled to Domitian, bade his son be of good cheer, and aggrandise the
State by war and deeds of arms. He would himself provide for the interests
of peace, and for the welfare of his family. He then had some of the swiftest
vessels laden with corn, and committed them to the perils of the still
stormy sea. Rome indeed was in the very critical position of not having
more than ten days' consumption in the granaries, when the supplies from
Vespasian arrived. 
[4.53] The work of rebuilding the Capitol
was assigned by him to Lucius Vestinius, a man of the Equestrian order,
who, however, for high character and reputation ranked among the nobles.
The soothsayers whom he assembled directed that the remains of the old
shrine should be removed to the marshes, and the new temple raised on the
original site. The Gods, they said, forbade the old form to be changed.
On the 21st of June, beneath a cloudless sky, the entire space devoted
to the sacred enclosure was encompassed with chaplets and garlands. Soldiers,
who bore auspicious names, entered the precincts with sacred boughs. Then
the vestal virgins, with a troop of boys and girls, whose fathers and mothers
were still living, sprinkled the whole space with water drawn from the
fountains and rivers. After this, Helvidius Priscus, the praetor, first
purified the spot with the usual sacrifice of a sow, a sheep, and a bull,
and duly placed the entrails on turf; then, in terms dictated by Publius
Aelianus, the high-priest, besought Jupiter, Juno, Minerva, and the tutelary
deities of the place, to prosper the undertaking, and to lend their divine
help to raise the abodes which the piety of men had founded for them. He
then touched the wreaths, which were wound round the foundation stone and
entwined with the ropes, while at the same moment all the other magistrates
of the State, the Priests, the Senators, the Knights, and a number of the
citizens, with zeal and joy uniting their efforts, dragged the huge stone
along. Contributions of gold and silver and virgin ores, never smelted
in the furnace, but still in their natural state, were showered on the
foundations. The soothsayers had previously directed that no stone or gold
which had been intended for any other purpose should profane the work.
Additional height was given to the structure; this was the only variation
which religion would permit, and the one feature which had been thought
wanting in the splendour of the old temple. 
[4.54] Meanwhile the tidings of the
death of Vitellius, spreading through Gaul and Germany, had caused a second
war. Civilis had thrown aside all disguise, and was now openly assailing
the Roman power, while the legions of Vitellius preferred even a foreign
yoke to the rule of Vespasian. Gaul had gathered fresh courage from the
belief that the fortunes of our armies had been everywhere disastrous;
for a report was rife that our winter camps in Moesia and Pannonia were
hemmed in by the Sarmatians and Dacians. Rumours equally false were circulated
respecting Britain. Above all, the conflagration of the Capitol had made
them believe that the end of the Roman Empire was at hand. The Gauls, they
remembered, had captured the city in former days, but, as the abode of
Jupiter was uninjured, the Empire had survived; whereas now the Druids
declared, with the prophetic utterances of an idle superstition, that this
fatal conflagration was a sign of the anger of heaven, and portended universal
empire for the Transalpine nations. A rumour had also gone forth that the
chiefs of Gaul, whom Otho had sent against Vitellius, had, before their
departure, bound themselves by a compact not to fall the cause of freedom,
should the power of Rome be broken by a continuous succession of civil
wars and internal calamities. 
[4.55] Before the murder of Flaccus
Hordeonius nothing had come out by which any conspiracy could be discovered.
After his death, messengers passed to and fro between Civilis and Classicus,
commander of the cavalry of the Treveri. Classicus was first among his
countrymen in rank and wealth; he was of a royal house, of a race distinguished
both in peace and war, and he himself claimed to be by family tradition
the foe rather than the ally of the Romans. Julius Tutor and Julius Sabinus
joined him in his schemes. One was a Trever, the other a Lingon. Tutor
had been made by Vitellius guardian of the banks of the Rhine. Sabinus,
over and above his natural vanity, was inflamed with the pride of an imaginary
descent, for he asserted that his great-grandmother had, by her personal
charms, attracted the admiration of the divine Julius, when he was campaigning
in Gaul. These two men held secret conferences to sound the views of the
rest of their countrymen, and when they had secured as accomplices such
as they thought suitable for their purpose, they met together in a private
house in the Colonia Agrippinensis; for the State in its public policy
was strongly opposed to all such attempts. Some, however, of the Ubii and
Tungri were present but the Treveri and Lingones had the greatest weight
in the matter. Nor could they endure the delay of deliberation; they rivalled
each other in vehement assertions that the Romans were in a frenzy of discord,
that their legions had been cut to pieces, that Italy was laid waste, that
Rome itself was at that very moment undergoing capture, while all her armies
were occupied by wars of their own. If they were but to secure the passes
of the Alps with bodies of troops, Gaul, with her own freedom firmly established,
might look about her, and fix the limits of her dominion. 
[4.56] These views were no sooner stated
than approved. As to the survivors of the Vitellianist army, they doubted
what to do; many voted for putting to death men so turbulent and faithless,
stained too with the blood of their generals. Still the policy of mercy
prevailed. To cut off all hope of quarter might provoke an obstinate resistance.
It would be better to draw them into friendly union. If only the legates
of the legions were put to death, the remaining multitude, moved by the
consciousness of guilt and the hope of escape, would readily join their
cause. 
Such was the outline of their original plan. Emissaries were likewise
despatched throughout Gaul to stir up war, while they themselves feigned
submission, that they might be the better able to crush the unsuspecting
Vocula. Persons, however, were found to convey information to him, but
he had not sufficient strength to suppress the movement, as the legions
were incomplete in numbers and disloyal. So, what with soldiers of doubtful
fidelity and secret enemies, he thought it best, under the circumstances,
to make his way by meeting deceit with deceit, and by using the same arts
with which he was himself assailed. He therefore went down to the Colonia
Agrippinenses. Thither Claudius Labeo, who, as I have related, had been
taken prisoner and sent out of the province into the country of the Frisii,
made his escape by bribing his gaolers. This man undertook, if a force
were given him, to enter the Batavian territory and bring back to the Roman
alliance the more influential part of that State; but, though he obtained
a small force of infantry and cavalry, he did not venture to attempt anything
among the Batavi, but only induced some of the Nervii and Betasii to take
up arms, and made continual attacks on the Canninefates and the Marsaci
more in the way of robbery than of war. 
[4.57] Lured on by the treacherous representations
of the Gauls, Vocula marched against the enemy. He was near the Old Camp,
when Classicus and Tutor, who had gone on in advance under the pretence
of reconnoitring, concluded an agreement with the German chiefs. They then
for the first time separated themselves from the legions, and formed a
camp of their own, with a separate line of entrenchment, while Vocula protested
that the power of Rome was not so utterly shaken by civil war as to have
become contemptible even to Treveri and Lingones. "There are still,"
he said, "faithful provinces, victorious armies, the fortune of the
Empire, and avenging Gods. Thus it was that Sacrovir and the Aedui in former
days, Vindex and the Gauls in more recent times, were crushed in a single
battle. The breakers of treaties may look for the vengeance of the same
Deities, and the same doom. Julius and Augustus understood far better the
character of the people. Galba's policy and the diminution of their tribute
have inspired them with hostile feelings. They are now enemies, because
their yoke is easy; when they have been plundered and stripped, they will
be friends." After uttering this defiance, finding that Classicus
and Tutor persisted in their treachery, he changed his line of march, and
retired to Novesium. The Gauls encamped at a distance of two miles, and
plied with bribes the centurions and soldiers who visited them there, striving
to make a Roman army commit the unheard of baseness of swearing allegiance
to foreigners, and pledge itself to the perpetration of this atrocious
crime by murdering or imprisoning its officers. Vocula, though many persons
advised him to escape, thought it best to be bold, and, summoning an assembly,
spoke as follows: 
[4.58] "Never, when I have addressed
you, have I felt more anxious for your welfare, never more indifferent
about my own. Of the destruction that threatens me I can hear with cheerfulness;
and amid so many evils I look forward to death as the end of my sufferings.
For you I feel shame and compassion. Against you indeed no hostile ranks
are gathering. That would be but the lawful course of war, and the right
which an enemy may claim. But Classicus hopes to wage with your strength
his war against Rome, and proudly offers to your allegiance an empire of
Gaul. Though our fortune and courage have for the moment failed us, have
we so utterly forgotten the old memories of those many times when the legions
of Rome resolved to perish but not to be driven from their post? Often
have our allies endured to see their cities destroyed, and with their wives
and children to die in the flames, with only this reward in their death,
the glory of untarnished loyalty. At this very moment our legions at the
Old Camp are suffering the horrors of famine and of siege, and cannot be
shaken by threats or by promises. We, besides our arms, our numbers, and
the singular strength of our fortifications, have corn and supplies sufficient
for a campaign however protracted. We had lately money enough even to furnish
a donative; and, whether you choose to refer the bounty to Vitellius or
Vespasian, it was at any rate from a Roman Emperor that you received it.
If you, who have been victorious in so many campaigns, who have so often
routed the enemy at Gelduba and at the Old Camp, yet shrink from battle,
this indeed is an unworthy fear. Still you have an entrenched camp; you
have fortifications and the means of prolonging the war, till succouring
armies pour in from the neighbouring provinces. It may be that I do not
satisfy you; you may fall back on other legates or tribunes, on some centurion,
even on some common soldier. Let not this monstrous news go forth to the
whole world, that with you in their train Civilis and Classicus are about
to invade Italy. Should the Germans and the Gauls lead you to the walls
of the capital, will you lift up arms against your Country? My soul shudders
at the imagination of so horrible a crime. Will you mount guard for Tutor,
the Trever? Shall a Batavian give the signal for battle? Will you serve
as recruits in the German battalions? What will be the issue of your wickedness
when the Roman legions are marshalled against you? Will you be a second
time deserters, a second time traitors, and brave the anger of heaven while
you waver between your old and your new allegiance? I implore and entreat
thee, O Jupiter, supremely good and great, to whom through eight hundred
and twenty years we have paid the honours of so many triumphs, and thou,
Quirinus, father of Rome, that, if it be not your pleasure that this camp
should be preserved pure and inviolate under my command, you will at least
not suffer it to be polluted and defiled by a Tutor and a Classicus. Grant
that the soldiers of Rome may either be innocent of crime, or at least
experience a repentance speedy and without remorse." 
[4.59] They received his speech with
feelings that varied between hope, fear, and shame. Vocula then left them,
and was preparing to put an end to his life, when his freedmen and slaves
prevented him from anticipating by his own act a most miserable death.
Classicus despatched one Aemilius Longinus, a deserter from the first legion,
and speedily accomplished the murder. With respect to the two legates,
Herennius and Numisius, it was thought enough to put them in chains. Classicus
then assumed the insignia of Roman Imperial power, and entered the camp.
Hardened though he was to every sort of crime, he could only find words
enough to go through the form of oath. All who were present swore allegiance
to the empire of Gaul. He distinguished the murderer of Vocula by high
promotion, and the others by rewards proportioned to their services in
crime. 
Tutor and Classicus then divided the management of the war between them.
Tutor, investing the Colonia Agrippinensis with a strong force, compelled
the inhabitants and all the troops on the Upper Rhine to take the same
oath. He did this after having first put to death the tribunes at Mogontiacum,
and driven away the prefect of the camp, because they refused obedience.
Classicus picked out all the most unprincipled men from the troops who
had capitulated, and bade them go to the besieged, and offer them quarter,
if they would accept the actual state of affairs; otherwise there was no
hope for them; they would have to endure famine, the sword, and the direst
extremities. The messengers whom he sent supported their representations
by their own example. 
[4.60] The ties of loyalty on the one
hand, and the necessities of famine on the other, kept the besieged wavering
between the alternatives of glory and infamy. While they thus hesitated,
all usual and even unusual kinds of food failed them, for they had consumed
their horses and beasts of burden and all the other animals, which, though
unclean and disgusting, necessity compelled them to use. At last they tore
up shrubs and roots and the grass that grew between the stones, and thus
shewed an example of patience under privations, till at last they shamefully
tarnished the lustre of their fame by sending envoys to Civilis to beg
for their lives. Their prayers were not heard, till they swore allegiance
to the empire of Gaul. Civilis then stipulated for the plunder of the camp,
and appointed guards who were to secure the treasure, the camp-followers,
and the baggage, and accompany them as they departed, stripped of everything.
About five miles from the spot the Germans rose upon them, and attacked
them as they marched without thought of danger. The bravest were cut down
where they stood; the greater part, as they were scattered in flight. The
rest made their escape to the camp, while Civilis certainly complained
of the proceeding, and upbraided the Germans with breaking faith by this
atrocious act. Whether this was mere hypocrisy, or whether he was unable
to restrain their fury, is not positively stated. They plundered and then
fired the camp, and all who survived the battle the flames destroyed. 
[4.61] Then Civilis fulfilled a vow
often made by barbarians; his hair, which he had let grow long and coloured
with a red dye from the day of taking up arms against Rome, he now cut
short, when the destruction of the legions had been accomplished. It was
also said that he set up some of the prisoners as marks for his little
son to shoot at with a child's arrows and javelins. He neither took the
oath of allegiance to Gaul himself, nor obliged any Batavian to do so,
for he relied on the resources of Germany, and felt that, should it be
necessary to fight for empire with the Gauls, he should have on his side
a great name and superior strength. Munius Lupercus, legate of one of the
legions, was sent along with other gifts to Veleda, a maiden of the tribe
of the Bructeri, who possessed extensive dominion; for by ancient usage
the Germans attributed to many of their women prophetic powers and, as
the superstition grew in strength, even actual divinity. The authority
of Veleda was then at its height, because she had foretold the success
of the Germans and the destruction of the legions. Lupercus, however, was
murdered on the road. A few of the centurions and tribunes, who were natives
of Gaul, were reserved as hostages for the maintenance of the alliance.
The winter encampments of the auxiliary infantry and cavalry and of the
legions, with the sole exception of those at Mogontiacum and Vindonissa,
were pulled down and burnt. 
[4.62] The 16th legion, with the auxiliary
troops that capitulated at the same time, received orders to march from
Novesium to the Colony of the Treveri, a day having been fixed by which
they were to quit the camp. The whole of this interval they spent in many
anxious thoughts. The cowards trembled to think of those who had been massacred
at the Old Camp; the better men blushed with shame at the infamy of their
position. "What a march is this before us!" they cried, "Who
will lead us on our way? Our all is at the disposal of those whom we have
made our masters for life or death." Others, without the least sense
of their disgrace, stowed away about their persons their money and what
else they prized most highly, while some got their arms in readiness, and
girded on their weapons as if for battle. While they were thus occupied,
the time for their departure arrived, and proved even more dismal than
their anticipation. For in their intrenchments their woeful appearance
had not been so noticeable; the open plain and the light of day revealed
their disgrace. The images of the Emperors were torn down; the standards
were borne along without their usual honours, while the banners of the
Gauls glittered on every side. The train moved on in silence like a long
funeral procession. Their leader was Claudius Sanctus; one of his eyes
had been destroyed; he was repulsive in countenance and even more feeble
in intellect. The guilt of the troops seemed to be doubled, when the other
legion, deserting the camp at Bonna, joined their ranks. When the report
of the capture of the legions became generally known, all who but a short
time before trembled at the name of Rome rushed forth from the fields and
houses, and spread themselves everywhere to enjoy with extravagant delight
the strange spectacle. The Picentine Horse could not endure the triumph
of the insulting rabble, and, disregarding the promises and threats of
Sanctus, rode off to Mogontiacum. Chancing to fall in with Longinus, the
murderer of Vocula, they overwhelmed him with a shower of darts, and thus
made a beginning towards a future expiation of their guilt. The legions
did not change the direction of their march, and encamped under the walls
of the colony of the Treveri. 
[4.63] Elated with their success, Civilis
and Classicus doubted whether they should not give up the Colonia Agrippinensis
to be plundered by their troops. Their natural ferocity and lust for spoil
prompted them to destroy the city; but the necessities of war, and the
advantage of a character for clemency to men founding a new empire, forbade
them to do so. Civilis was also influenced by recollections of kindness
received; for his son, who at the beginning of the war had been arrested
in the Colony, had been kept in honourable custody. But the tribes beyond
the Rhine disliked the place for its wealth and increasing power, and held
that the only possible way of putting an end to war would be, either to
make it an open city for all Germans, or to destroy it and so disperse
the Ubii. 
[4.64] Upon this the Tencteri, a tribe
separated by the Rhine from the Colony, sent envoys with orders to make
known their instructions to the Senate of the Agrippinenses. These orders
the boldest spirit among the ambassadors thus expounded: "For your
return into the unity of the German nation and name we give thanks to the
Gods whom we worship in common and to Mars, the chief of our divinities,
and we congratulate you that at length you will live as free men among
the free. Up to this day have the Romans closed river and land and, in
a way, the very air, that they may bar our converse and prevent our meetings,
or, what is a still worse insult to men born to arms, may force us to assemble
unarmed and all but stripped, watched by sentinels, and taxed for the privilege.
But that our friendship and union may be established for ever, we require
of you to strip your city of its walls, which are the bulwarks of slavery.
Even savage animals, if you keep them in confinement, forget their natural
courage. We require of you to massacre all Romans within your territory;
liberty and a dominant race cannot well exist together. Let the property
of the slain come into a common stock, so that no one may be able to secrete
anything, or to detach his own interest from ours. Let it be lawful for
us and for you to inhabit both banks of the Rhine, as it was of old for
our ancestors. As nature has given light and air to all men, so has she
thrown open every land to the brave. Resume the manners and customs of
your country, renouncing the pleasures, through which, rather than through
their arms, the Romans secure their power against subject nations. A pure
and untainted race, forgetting your past bondage, you will be the equals
of all, or will even rule over others." 
[4.65] The inhabitants of the Colony
took time for deliberation, and, as dread of the future would not allow
them to accept the offered terms, while their actual condition forbade
an open and contemptuous rejection, they replied to the following effect:
"The very first chance of freedom that presented itself we seized
with more eagerness than caution, that we might unite ourselves with you
and the other Germans, our kinsmen by blood. With respect to our fortifications,
as at this very moment the Roman armies are assembling, it is safer for
us to strengthen than to destroy them. All strangers from Italy or the
provinces, that may have been in our territory, have either perished in
the war, or have fled to their own homes. As for those who in former days
settled here, and have been united to us by marriage, and as for their
offspring, this is their native land. We cannot think you so unjust as
to wish that we should slay our parents, our brothers, and our children.
All duties and restrictions on trade we repeal. Let there be a free passage
across the river, but let it be during the day-time and for persons unarmed,
till the new and recent privileges assume by usage the stability of time.
As arbiters between us we will have Civilis and Veleda; under their sanction
the treaty shall be ratified." The Tencteri were thus appeased, and
ambassadors were sent with presents to Civilis and Veleda, who settled
everything to the satisfaction of the inhabitants of the Colony. They were
not, however, allowed to approach or address Veleda herself. In order to
inspire them with more respect they were prevented from seeing her. She
dwelt in a lofty tower, and one of her relatives, chosen for the purpose,
conveyed, like the messenger of a divinity, the questions and answers.

[4.66] Thus strengthened by his alliance
with the Colonia Agrippinensis, Civilis resolved to attach to himself the
neighbouring States, or to make war on them if they offered any opposition.
He occupied the territory of the Sunici, and formed the youth of the country
into regular cohorts. To hinder his further advance, Claudius Labeo encountered
him with a hastily assembled force of Betasii, Tungri, and Nervii, relying
on the strength of his position, as he had occupied a bridge over the river
Mosa. They fought in a narrow defile without any decided result, till the
Germans swam across and attacked Labeo's rear. At the same moment, Civilis,
acting either on some bold impulse or by a preconcerted plan, rushed into
the Tungrian column, exclaiming in a loud voice, "We have not taken
up arms in order that the Batavi and Treveri may rule over the nations.
Far from us be such arrogance! Accept our alliance. I am ready to join
your ranks, whether you would prefer me to be your general or your comrade."
The multitude was moved by the appeal, and were beginning to sheathe their
swords, when Campanus and Juvenalis, two of the Tungrian chieftains, surrendered
the whole tribe to Civilis. Labeo made his escape before he could be intercepted.
The Betasii and Nervii, also capitulating, were incorporated by Civilis
into his army. He now commanded vast resources, as the States were either
completely cowed, or else were naturally inclined in his favour. 
[4.67] Meanwhile Julius Sabinus, after
having thrown down the pillars that recorded the treaty with Rome, bade
his followers salute him as Emperor, and hastened at the head of a large
and undisciplined crowd of his countrymen to attack the Sequani, a neighbouring
people, still faithful to Rome. The Sequani did not decline the contest.
Fortune favoured the better cause, and the Lingones were defeated. Sabinus
fled from the battle with a cowardice equal to the rashness with which
he had precipitated it, and, in order to spread a report of his death,
he set fire to a country-house where he had taken refuge. It was believed
that he there perished by a death of his own seeking. The various shifts
by which he contrived to conceal himself and to prolong his life for nine
years, the firm fidelity of his friends, and the noble example of his wife
Epponina, I shall relate in their proper place. By this victory of the
Sequani the tide of war was stayed. The States began by degrees to recover
their senses, and to reflect on the claims of justice and of treaties.
The Remi were foremost in this movement, announcing throughout Gaul that
deputies were to be sent to consult in common assembly whether they should
make freedom or peace their object. 
[4.68] At Rome report exaggerated all
these disasters, and disturbed Mucianus with the fear that the generals,
though distinguished men (for he had already appointed Gallus Annius and
Petilius Cerialis to the command), would be unequal to the weight of so
vast a war. Yet the capital could not be left without a ruler, and men
feared the ungoverned passions of Domitian, while Primus Antonius and Varus
Arrius were also, as I have said, objects of suspicion. Varus, who had
been made commander of the Praetorian Guard, had still at his disposal
much military strength. Mucianus ejected him from his office, and, not
to leave him without consolation, made him superintendent of the sale of
corn. To pacify the feelings of Domitian, which were not unfavourable to
Varus, he appointed Arretinus Clemens, who was closely connected with the
house of Vespasian, and who was also a great favourite with Domitian, to
the command of the Praetorian Guard, alleging that his father, in the reign
of Caligula, had admirably discharged the duties of that office. The old
name he said, would please the soldiers, and Clemens himself, though on
the roll of Senators, would be equal to both duties. He selected the most
eminent men in the State to accompany him, while others were appointed
through interest. At the same time Domitian and Mucianus prepared to set
out, but in a very different mood; Domitian in all the hope and impatience
of youth, Mucianus ever contriving delays to check his ardent companion,
who, he feared, were he to intrude himself upon the army, might be led
by the recklessness of youth or by bad advisers to compromise at once the
prospects of war and of peace. Two of the victorious legions, the 6th and
8th, the 21st, which belonged to the Vitellianist army, the 2nd, which
consisted of new levies, were marched into Gaul, some over the Penine and
Cottian, some over the Graian Alps. The 14th legion was summoned from Britain,
and the 6th and 10th from Spain. Thus rumours of an advancing army, as
well as their own temper, inclined the States of Gaul which assembled in
the country of the Remi to more peaceful counsels. Envoys from the Treveri
were awaiting them there, and among them Tullius Valentinus, the most vehement
promoter of the war, who in a set speech poured forth all the charges usually
made against great empires, and levelled against the Roman people many
insulting and exasperating expressions. The man was a turbulent fomenter
of sedition, and pleased many by his frantic eloquence. 
[4.69] On the other hand Julius Auspex,
one of the leading chieftains among the Remi, dwelt on the power of Rome
and the advantages of peace. Pointing out that war might be commenced indeed
by cowards, but must be carried on at the peril of the braver spirits,
and that the Roman legions were close at hand, he restrained the most prudent
by considerations of respect and loyalty, and held back the younger by
representations of danger and appeals to fear. The result was, that, while
they extolled the spirit of Valentinus, they followed the counsels of Auspex.
It is certain that the Treveri and Lingones were injured in the eyes of
the Gallic nations by their having sided with Verginius in the movement
of Vindex. Many were deterred by the mutual jealousy of the provinces.
"Where," they asked, "could a head be found for the war?
Where could they look for civil authority, and the sanction of religion?
If all went well with them, what city could they select as the seat of
empire?" The victory was yet to be gained; dissension had already
begun. One State angrily boasted of its alliances, another of its wealth
and military strength, or of the antiquity of its origin. Disgusted with
the prospect of the future, they acquiesced in their present condition.
Letters were written to the Treveri in the name of the States of Gaul,
requiring them to abstain from hostilities, and reminding them that pardon
might yet be obtained, and that friends were ready to intercede for them,
should they repent. Valentinus still opposed, and succeeded in closing
the ears of his countrymen to this advice, though he was not so diligent
in preparing for war as he was assiduous in haranguing. 
[4.70] Accordingly neither the Treveri,
the Lingones, nor the other revolted States, took measures at all proportioned
to the magnitude of the peril they had incurred. Even their generals did
not act in concert. Civilis was traversing the pathless wilds of the Belgae
in attempting to capture Claudius Labeo, or to drive him out of the country.
Classicus for the most part wasted his time in indolent repose, as if he
had only to enjoy an empire already won. Even Tutor made no haste to occupy
with troops the upper bank of the Rhine and the passes of the Alps. Meanwhile
the 21st legion, by way of Vindonissa, and Sextilius Felix with the auxiliary
infantry, by way of Rhaetia, penetrated into the province. They were joined
by the Singularian Horse, which had been raised some time before by Vitellius,
and had afterwards gone over to the side of Vespasian. Their commanding
officer was Julius Briganticus. He was sister's son to Civilis, and he
was hated by his uncle and hated him in return with all the extreme bitterness
of a family feud. Tutor, having augmented the army of the Treveri with
fresh levies from the Vangiones, the Caeracates, and the Triboci, strengthened
it with a force of veteran infantry and cavalry, men from the legions whom
he had either corrupted by promises or overborne by intimidation. Their
first act was to cut to pieces a cohort, which had been sent on in advance
by Sextilius Felix; soon afterwards, however, on the approach of the Roman
generals at the head of their army, they returned to their duty by an act
of honourable desertion, and the Triboci, Vangiones, and Caeracates, followed
their example. Avoiding Mogontiacum, Tutor retired with the Treveri to
Bingium, trusting to the strength of the position, as he had broken down
the bridge over the river Nava. A sudden attack, however, was made by the
infantry under the command of Sextilius; a ford was discovered, and he
found himself betrayed and routed. The Treveri were panicstricken by this
disaster, and the common people threw down their arms, and dispersed themselves
through the country. Some of the chiefs, anxious to seem the first to cease
from hostilities, fled to those States which had not renounced the Roman
alliance. The legions, which had been removed, as I have before related,
from Novesium and Bonna to the territory of the Treveri, voluntarily swore
allegiance to Vespasian. These proceedings took place in the absence of
Valentinus. When he returned, full of fury and bent on again throwing everything
into confusion and ruin, the legions withdrew to the Mediomatrici, a people
in alliance with Rome. Valentinus and Tutor again involved the Treveri
in war, and murdered the two legates, Herennius and Numisius, that by diminishing
the hope of pardon they might strengthen the bond of crime. 
[4.71] Such was the state of the war,
when Petilius Cerialis reached Mogontiacum. Great expectations were raised
by his arrival. Eager for battle, and more ready to despise than to be
on his guard against the enemy, he fired the spirit of the troops by his
bold language; for he would, he said, fight without a moment's delay, as
soon as it was possible to meet the foe. The levies which had been raised
in Gaul he ordered back to their respective States, with instructions to
proclaim that the legions sufficed to defend the Empire, and that the allies
might return to the duties of peace, secure in the thought that a war which
Roman arms had undertaken was finished. This proceeding strengthened the
loyalty of the Gauls. Now that their youth were restored to them they could
more easily bear the burden of the tribute; and, finding themselves despised,
they were more ready to obey. Civilis and Classicus, having heard of the
defeat of Tutor and of the rout of the Treveri, and indeed of the complete
success of the enemy, hastened in their alarm to concentrate their own
scattered forces, and meanwhile sent repeated messages to Valentinus, warning
him not to risk a decisive battle. This made Cerialis move with more rapidity.
He sent to the Mediomatrici persons commissioned to conduct the legions
which were there by the shortest route against the enemy; and, collecting
such troops as there were at Mogontiacum and such as he had brought with
himself, he arrived in three days' march at Rigodulum. Valentinus, at the
head of a large body of Treveri, had occupied this position, which was
protected by hills, and by the river Mosella. He had also strengthened
it with ditches and breastworks of stones. These defences, however, did
not deter the Roman general from ordering his infantry to the assault,
and making his cavalry advance up the hill; he scorned the enemy, whose
forces, hastily levied, could not, he knew, derive any advantage from their
position, but what would be more than counterbalanced by the courage of
his own men. There was some little delay in the ascent, while the troops
were passing through the range of the enemy's missiles. As soon as they
came to close fighting, the barbarians were dislodged and hurled like a
falling house from their position. A detachment of the cavalry rode round
where the hills were less steep, and captured the principal Belgic chiefs,
and among them Valentinus, their general. 
[4.72] On the following day Cerialis
entered the Colony of the Treveri. The soldiers were eager to destroy the
city. "This," they said, "is the birthplace of Classicus
and Tutor; it was by the treason of these men that our legions were besieged
and massacred. What had Cremona done like this, Cremona which was torn
from the very bosom of Italy, because it had occasioned to the conquerors
the delay of a single night? Here on the borders of Germany stands unharmed
a city which exults in the spoils of our armies and the blood of our generals.
Let the plunder be brought into the Imperial treasury; we shall be satisfied
with the fire that will destroy a rebellious colony and compensate for
the overthrow of so many camps." Cerialis, fearing the disgrace of
being thought to have imbued his soldiers with a spirit of licence and
cruelty, checked their fury. They submitted, for, now that civil war was
at an end, they were tractable enough in dealing with an enemy. Their thoughts
were then diverted by the pitiable aspect of the legions which had been
summoned from the Mediomatrici. They stood oppressed by the consciousness
of guilt, their eyes fixed on the earth. No friendly salutations passed
between the armies as they met, they made no answer to those who would
console or encourage them, but hid themselves in their tents, and shrank
from the very light of day. Nor was it so much their peril or their alarm
that confounded them, as their shame and humiliation. Even the conquerors
were struck dumb, and dared not utter a word of entreaty, but pleaded for
pardon by their silent tears, till Cerialis at last soothed their minds
by declaring that destiny had brought about all that had happened through
the discords of soldiers and generals or through the treachery of the foe.
They must consider that day as the first of their military service and
of their allegiance. Their past crimes would be remembered neither by the
Emperor nor by himself. They were thus admitted into the same camp with
the rest, and an order was read in every company, that no soldier was in
any contention or altercation to reproach a comrade with mutiny or defeat.

[4.73] Cerialis then convoked an assembly
of the Treveri and Lingones, and thus addressed them: "I have never
cultivated eloquence; it is by my sword that I have asserted the excellence
of the Roman people. Since, however, words have very great weight with
you, since you estimate good and evil, not according to their real value,
but according to the representations of seditious men, I have resolved
to say a few words, which, as the war is at an end, it may be useful for
you to have heard rather than for me to have spoken. Roman generals and
Emperors entered your territory, as they did the rest of Gaul, with no
ambitious purposes, but at the solicitation of your ancestors, who were
wearied to the last extremity by intestine strife, while the Germans, whom
they had summoned to their help, had imposed their yoke alike on friend
and foe. How many battles we have fought against the Cimbri and Teutones,
at the cost of what hardships to our armies, and with what result we have
waged our German wars, is perfectly well known. It was not to defend Italy
that we occupied the borders of the Rhine, but to insure that no second
Ariovistus should seize the empire of Gaul. Do you fancy yourselves to
be dearer in the eyes of Civilis and the Batavi and the Transrhenane tribes,
than your fathers and grandfathers were to their ancestors? There have
ever been the same causes at work to make the Germans cross over into Gaul,
lust, avarice, and the longing for a new home, prompting them to leave
their own marshes and deserts, and to possess themselves of this most fertile
soil and of you its inhabitants. Liberty, indeed, and the like specious
names are their pretexts; but never did any man seek to enslave his fellows
and secure dominion for himself, without using the very same words. 
[4.74] "Gaul always had its petty
kingdoms and intestine wars, till you submitted to our authority. We, though
so often provoked, have used the right of conquest to burden you only with
the cost of maintaining peace. For the tranquillity of nations cannot be
preserved without armies; armies cannot exist without pay; pay cannot be
furnished without tribute; all else is common between us. You often command
our legions. You rule these and other provinces. There is no privilege,
no exclusion. From worthy Emperors you derive equal advantage, though you
dwell so far away, while cruel rulers are most formidable to their neighbours.
Endure the passions and rapacity of your masters, just as you bear barren
seasons and excessive rains and other natural evils. There will be vices
as long as there are men. But they are not perpetual, and they are compensated
by the occurrence of better things. Perhaps, however, you expect a milder
rule under Tutor and Classicus, and fancy that armies to repel the Germans
and the Britons will be furnished by less tribute than you now pay. Should
the Romans be driven out (which God forbid) what can result but wars between
all these nations? By the prosperity and order of eight hundred years has
this fabric of empire been consolidated, nor can it be overthrown without
destroying those who overthrow it. Yours will be the worst peril, for you
have gold and wealth, and these are the chief incentives to war. Give therefore
your love and respect to the cause of peace, and to that capital in which
we, conquerors and conquered, claim an equal right. Let the lessons of
fortune in both its forms teach you not to prefer rebellion and ruin to
submission and safety." With words to this effect he quieted and encouraged
his audience, who feared harsher treatment. 
[4.75] The territory of the Treveri
was occupied by the victorious army, when Civilis and Classicus sent letters
to Cerialis, the purport of which was as follows: "Vespasian, though
the news is suppressed, is dead. Rome and Italy are thoroughly wasted by
intestine war. Mucianus and Domitian are mere empty and powerless names.
If Cerialis wishes for the empire of Gaul, we can be content with the boundaries
of our own States. If he prefers to fight, we do not refuse that alternative."
Cerialis sent no answer to Civilis and Classicus, but despatched the bearer
and the letter itself to Domitian. The enemy advanced from every quarter
in several bodies. Cerialis was generally censured for allowing them to
unite, when he might have destroyed them in detail. The Roman army surrounded
their camp with a fosse and rampart, for up to that time they had been
rash enough to occupy it without any defence. Among the Germans there was
a conflict of opinions. 
[4.76] Civilis said: "We must await
the arrival of the Transrhenane tribes, the terror of whose name will break
down the shattered strength of Rome. As for the Gauls, what are they but
the prey of the conqueror? And yet the chief strength of the nation, the
Belgae, are with us, either openly, or in heart." Tutor maintained
that the power of Rome would only increase with delay, as her armies were
assembling from all quarters. "One legion," he said, "has
already been brought over from Britain; others have been summoned from
Spain, or are advancing from Italy. Nor are these troops newly raised levies,
but they are veteran soldiers, experienced in war. But the Germans, whom
we are expecting, do not obey orders, and cannot be controlled, but always
act according to their own caprice. The money too and other presents by
which alone they can be bribed are more plentiful among the Romans, and
no one can be so bent on fighting as not to prefer repose to peril, when
the profit is the same. But if we at once meet the foe, Cerialis has no
legions but those that survive from the wreck of the German army, and these
are bound by treaties to the States of Gaul. And the very fact of their
having, contrary to their expectations, lately routed the undisciplined
force of Valentinus will confirm in their rashness both them and their
general. They will venture again, and will find themselves in the hands,
not of an ignorant stripling, whose thoughts were of speeches and harangues
rather than of battle and the sword, but in those of Civilis and Classicus,
whom when they once behold they will be reminded of panic, of flight, of
famine, and of the many times when as captives they had to beg for life.
Nor are the Treveri and Lingones bound by any ties of affection; once let
their fear cease, and they will resume their arms." Classicus put
an end to these differences of opinion by giving his approval to the suggestions
of Tutor, which were at once acted on. 
[4.77] The centre was the post assigned
to the Ubii and Lingones. On the right were the Batavian cohorts; on the
left the Bructeri and the Tencteri. One division marching over the hills,
another passing between the highroad and the river Mosella, made the attack
with such suddenness, that Cerialis, who had not slept in the camp, was
in his chamber and even in his bed, when he heard at the same moment that
the battle had begun, and that his men were being worsted. He rebuked the
alarm of the messengers, till the whole extent of the disaster became visible,
and he saw that the camp of the legions had been forced, that the cavalry
were routed, that the bridge over the Mosella, which connected the farther
bank of the river with the Colony, was held by the Germans. Undismayed
by the confusion, Cerialis held back the fugitives with his own hand, and
readily exposing himself, with his person entirely unprotected, to the
missiles of the enemy, he succeeded by a daring and successful effort,
with the prompt aid of his bravest soldiers, in recovering the bridge and
holding it with a picked force. Then returning to the camp, he saw the
broken companies of the legions, which had been captured at Bonna and Novesium,
with but few soldiers round the standards, and the eagles all but surrounded
by the foe. Fired with indignation, he exclaimed, "It is not Flaccus
or Vocula, whom you are thus abandoning. There is no treachery here; I
have nothing to excuse but that I rashly believed that you, forgetting
your alliance with Gaul, had again recollected your allegiance to Rome.
I shall be added to the number of the Numisii and Herennii, so that all
your commanders will have fallen by the hands of their soldiers or of the
enemy. Go, tell Vespasian, or, since they are nearer, Civilis and Classicus,
that you have deserted your general on the battlefield. Legions will come
who will not leave me unavenged or you unpunished." 
[4.78] All this was true, and the tribunes
and prefects heaped on their men the same reproaches. The troops formed
themselves in cohorts and companies, for they could not deploy into line;
as the enemy were scattered everywhere, while from the fact that the battle
was raging within the entrenchments, they were themselves hampered with
their tents and baggage. Tutor, Classicus, and Civilis, each at his post,
animated the combatants; the Gauls they urged to fight for freedom, the
Batavi for glory, the Germans for plunder. Everything seemed in favour
of the enemy, till the 21st legion, having more room than the others, formed
itself into a compact body, withstood, and soon drove back the assailants.
Nor was it without an interposition of heaven, that by a sudden change
of temper the conquerors turned their backs and fled. Their own account
was, that they were alarmed by the sight of the cohorts, which, after being
broken at the first onset, rallied on the top of the hills, and presented
the appearance of reinforcements. What checked them in their course of
victory was a mischievous struggle among themselves to secure plunder while
they forgot the enemy. Cerialis, having thus all but ruined everything
by his carelessness, restored the day by his resolution; following up his
success, he took and destroyed the enemy's camp on the same day. 
[4.79] No long time was allowed to the
soldiers for repose. The Agrippinenses were begging for help, and were
offering to give up the wife and sister of Civilis and the daughter of
Classicus, who had been left with them as pledges for the maintenance of
the alliance. In the meanwhile they had massacred all the Germans who were
scattered throughout their dwellings. Hence their alarm and reasonable
importunity in begging for help, before the enemy, recovering their strength,
could raise their spirits for a new effort or for thoughts of revenge.
And indeed Civilis had marched in their direction, nor was he by any means
weak, as he had still, in unbroken force, the most warlike of his cohorts,
which consisted of Chauci and Frisii, and which was posted at Tolbiacum,
on the frontiers of the Agrippinenses. He was, however, diverted from his
purpose by the deplorable news that this cohort had been entirely destroyed
by a stratagem of the Agrippinenses, who, having stupefied the Germans
by a profuse entertainment and abundance of wine, fastened the doors, set
fire to the houses, and burned them. At the same time Cerialis advanced
by forced marches, and relieved the city. Civilis too was beset by other
fears. He was afraid that the 14th legion, supported by the fleet from
Britain, might do mischief to the Batavi along their line of coast. The
legion was, however, marched overland under the command of Fabius Priscus
into the territory of the Nervii and Tungri, and these two states were
allowed to capitulate. The Canninefates, taking the offensive, attacked
our fleet, and the larger part of the ships was either sunk or captured.
The same tribe also routed a crowd of Nervii, who by a spontaneous movement
had taken up arms on the Roman side. Classicus also gained a victory over
some cavalry, who had been sent on to Novesium by Cerialis. These reverses,
which, though trifling, came in rapid succession, destroyed by degrees
the prestige of the recent victory. 
[4.80] About the same time Mucianus
ordered the son of Vitellius to be put to death, alleging that dissension
would never cease, if he did not destroy all seeds of civil war. Nor would
he suffer Antonius Primus to be taken into the number of Domitian's attendants,
for he felt uneasy at his popularity with the troops, and feared the proud
spirit of the man, who could not endure an equal, much less a superior.
Antonius then went to Vespasian, who received him, not indeed as he expected,
but in a not unfriendly spirit. Two opposite influences acted on the Emperor;
on the one hand were the merits of Antonius, under whose conduct the war
had beyond all doubt been terminated; on the other, were the letters of
Mucianus. And everyone else inveighed against him, as an ill-affected and
conceited man, nor did they forget the scandals of his early life. Antonius
himself failed not to provoke offence by his arrogance and his excessive
propensity to dwell on his own services. He reproached other men with being
cowards; Caecina he stigmatized as a captive and a prisoner of war. Thus
by degrees he came to be thought of less weight and worth, though his friendship
with the Emperor to all appearance remained the same. 
[4.81] In the months during which Vespasian
was waiting at Alexandria for the periodical return of the summer gales
and settled weather at sea, many wonders occurred which seemed to point
him out as the object of the favour of heaven and of the partiality of
the Gods. One of the common people of Alexandria, well known for his blindness,
threw himself at the Emperor's knees, and implored him with groans to heal
his infirmity. This he did by the advice of the God Serapis, whom this
nation, devoted as it is to many superstitions, worships more than any
other divinity. He begged Vespasian that he would deign to moisten his
cheeks and eye-balls with his spittle. Another with a diseased hand, at
the counsel of the same God, prayed that the limb might feet the print
of a Caesar's foot. At first Vespasian ridiculed and repulsed them. They
persisted; and he, though on the one hand he feared the scandal of a fruitless
attempt, yet, on the other, was induced by the entreaties of the men and
by the language of his flatterers to hope for success. At last he ordered
that the opinion of physicians should be taken, as to whether such blindness
and infirmity were within the reach of human skill. They discussed the
matter from different points of view. "In the one case," they
said, "the faculty of sight was not wholly destroyed, and might return,
if the obstacies were removed; in the other case, the limb, which had fallen
into a diseased condition, might be restored, if a healing influence were
applied; such, perhaps, might be the pleasure of the Gods, and the Emperor
might be chosen to be the minister of the divine will; at any rate, all
the glory of a successful remedy would be Caesar's, while the ridicule
of failure would fall on the sufferers." And so Vespasian, supposing
that all things were possible to his good fortune, and that nothing was
any longer past belief, with a joyful countenance, amid the intense expectation
of the multitude of bystanders, accomplished what was required. The hand
was instantly restored to its use, and the light of day again shone upon
the blind. Persons actually present attest both facts, even now when nothing
is to be gained by falsehood. 
[4.82] Vespasian thus came to conceive
a deeper desire to visit the sanctuary of Serapis, that he might consult
the God about the interests of his throne. He gave orders that all persons
should be excluded from the temple. He had entered, and was absorbed in
worship, when he saw behind him one of the chief men of Egypt, named Basilides,
whom he knew at the time to be detained by sickness at a considerable distance,
as much as several days journey from Alexandria. He enquired of the priests,
whether Basilides had on this day entered the temple. He enquired of others
whom he met, whether he had been seen in the city. At length, sending some
horsemen, he ascertained that at that very instant the man had been eighty
miles distant. He then concluded that it was a divine apparition, and discovered
an oracular force in the name of Basilides. 
[4.83] The origin of this God Serapis
has not hitherto been made generally known by our writers. The Egyptian
priests give this account. While Ptolemy, the first Macedonian king who
consolidated the power of Egypt, was setting up in the newly-built city
of Alexandria fortifications, temples, and rites of worship, there appeared
to him in his sleep a youth of singular beauty and more than human stature,
who counselled the monarch to send his most trusty friends to Pontus, and
fetch his effigy from that country. This, he said, would bring prosperity
to the realm, and great and illustrious would be the city which gave it
a reception. At the same moment he saw the youth ascend to heaven in a
blaze of fire. Roused by so significant and strange an appearance, Ptolemy
disclosed the vision of the night to the Egyptian priests, whose business
it is to understand such matters. As they knew but little of Pontus or
of foreign countries, he enquired of Timotheus, an Athenian, one of the
family of the Eumolpids, whom he had invited from Eleusis to preside over
the sacred rites, what this worship was, and who was the deity. Timotheus,
questioning persons who had found their way to Pontus, learnt that there
was there a city Sinope, and near it a temple, which, according to an old
tradition of the neighbourhood, was sacred to the infernal Jupiter, for
there also stood close at hand a female figure, to which many gave the
name of Proserpine. Ptolemy, however, with the true disposition of a despot,
though prone to alarm, was, when the feeling of security returned, more
intent on pleasures than on religious matters; and he began by degrees
to neglect the affair, and to turn his thoughts to other concerns, till
at length the same apparition, but now more terrible and peremptory, denounced
ruin against the king and his realm, unless his bidding were performed.
Ptolemy then gave directions that an embassy should be despatched with
presents to king Scydrothemis, who at that time ruled the people of Sinope,
and instructed them, when they were on the point of sailing, to consult
the Pythian Apollo. Their voyage was prosperous, and the response of the
oracle was clear. The God bade them go and carry back with them the image
of his father, but leave that of his sister behind. 
[4.84] On their arrival at Sinope, they
delivered to Scydrothemis the presents from their king, with his request
and message. He wavered in purpose, dreading at one moment the anger of
the God, terrified at another by the threats and opposition of the people.
Often he was wrought upon by the gifts and promises of the ambassadors.
And so three years passed away, while Ptolemy did not cease to urge his
zealous solicitations. He continued to increase the dignity of his embassies,
the number of his ships, and the weight of his gold. A terrible vision
then appeared to Scydrothemis, warning him to thwart no longer the purposes
of the God. As he yet hesitated, various disasters, pestilence, and the
unmistakable anger of heaven, which grew heavier from day to day, continued
to harass him. He summoned an assembly, and explained to them the bidding
of the God, the visions of Ptolemy and himself, and the miseries that were
gathering about them. The people turned away angrily from their king, were
jealous of Egypt, and, fearing for themselves, thronged around the temple.
The story becomes at this point more marvellous, and relates that the God
of his own will conveyed himself on board the fleet, which had been brought
close to shore, and, wonderful to say, vast as was the extent of sea that
they traversed, they arrived at Alexandria on the third day. A temple,
proportioned to the grandeur of the city, was erected in a place called
Rhacotis, where there had stood a chapel consecrated in old times to Serapis
and Isis. Such is the most popular account of the origin and introduction
of the God Serapis. I am aware indeed that there are some who say that
he was brought from Seleucia, a city of Syria, in the reign of Ptolemy
III., while others assert that it was the act of the same king, but that
the place from which he was brought was Memphis, once a famous city and
the strength of ancient Egypt. The God himself, because he heals the sick,
many identified with Aesculapius; others with Osiris, the deity of the
highest antiquity among these nations; not a few with Jupiter, as being
supreme ruler of all things; but most people with Pluto, arguing from the
emblems which may be seen on his statues, or from conjectures of their
own. 
[4.85] Domitian and Mucianus received,
before they reached the Alps, favourable news of the operations among the
Treveri. The best proof of the victory was seen in the enemy's general
Valentinus, who with undaunted courage shewed in his look his habitual
high spirit. He was heard, but only that they might judge of his character;
and he was condemned. During his execution he replied to one who taunted
him with the subjection of his country, "That I take as my consolation
in death." Mucianus now brought forward as a new thought a plan he
had long concealed. "Since," he said, "by the blessing of
the Gods the strength of the enemy has been broken, it would little become
Domitian, now that the war is all but finished, to interfere with the glory
of others. If the stability of the Empire or the safety of Gaul were in
danger, it would have been right for Caesar to take his place in the field;
but the Canninefates and Batavi should be handed over to inferior generals.
Let the Emperor display from the near neighbourhood of Lugdunum the might
and prestige of imperial power, not meddling with trifling risks, though
he would not be wanting on greater occasions." 
[4.86] His artifices were understood,
but it was a part of their respect not to expose them. Thus they arrived
at Lugdunum. It is believed that from this place Domitian despatched secret
emissaries to Cerialis, and tempted his loyalty with the question whether,
on his shewing himself, he would hand over to him the command of the army.
Whether in this scheme Domitian was thinking of war with his father, or
of collecting money, and men to be used against his brother, was uncertain;
for Cerialis, by a judicious temporising, eluded the request as prompted
by an idle and childish ambition. Domitian, seeing that his youth was despised
by the older officers, gave up even the less important functions of government
which he had before exercised. Under a semblance of simple and modest tastes,
he wrapped himself in a profound reserve, and affected a devotion to literature
and a love of poetry, thus seeking to throw a veil over his character,
and to withdraw himself from the jealousy of his brother, of whose milder
temper, so unlike his own, he judged most falsely. 
Book 5 - (A.D. 70)
[5.1] EARLY in this year Titus Caesar,
who had been selected by his father to complete the subjugation of Judaea,
and who had gained distinction as a soldier while both were still subjects,
began to rise in power and reputation, as armies and provinces emulated
each other in their attachment to him. The young man himself, anxious to
be thought superior to his station, was ever displaying his gracefulness
and his energy in war. By his courtesy and affability he called forth a
willing obedience, and he often mixed with the common soldiers, while working
or marching, without impairing his dignity as general. He found in Judaea
three legions, the 5th, the 10th, and the 15th, all old troops of Vespasian's.
To these he added the 12th from Syria, and some men belonging to the 18th
and 3rd, whom he had withdrawn from Alexandria. This force was accompanied
by twenty cohorts of allied troops and eight squadrons of cavalry, by the
two kings Agrippa and Sohemus, by the auxiliary forces of king Antiochus,
by a strong contingent of Arabs, who hated the Jews with the usual hatred
of neighbours, and, lastly, by many persons brought from the capital and
from Italy by private hopes of securing the yet unengaged affections of
the Prince. With this force Titus entered the enemy's territory, preserving
strict order on his march, reconnoitring every spot, and always ready to
give battle. At last he encamped near Jerusalem. 
[5.2] As I am about to relate the last
days of a famous city, it seems appropriate to throw some light on its
origin. Some say that the Jews were fugitives from the island of Crete,
who settled on the nearest coast of Africa about the time when Saturn was
driven from his throne by the power of Jupiter. Evidence of this is sought
in the name. There is a famous mountain in Crete called Ida; the neighbouring
tribe, the Idaei, came to be called Judaei by a barbarous lengthening of
the national name. Others assert that in the reign of Isis the overflowing
population of Egypt, led by Hierosolymus and Judas, discharged itself into
the neighbouring countries. Many, again, say that they were a race of Ethiopian
origin, who in the time of king Cepheus were driven by fear and hatred
of their neighbours to seek a new dwelling-place. Others describe them
as an Assyrian horde who, not having sufficient territory, took possession
of part of Egypt, and founded cities of their own in what is called the
Hebrew country, lying on the borders of Syria. Others, again, assign a
very distinguished origin to the Jews, alleging that they were the Solymi,
a nation celebrated in the poems of Homer, who called the city which they
founded Hierosolyma after their own name. 
[5.3] Most writers, however, agree in
stating that once a disease, which horribly disfigured the body, broke
out over Egypt; that king Bocchoris, seeking a remedy, consulted the oracle
of Hammon, and was bidden to cleanse his realm, and to convey into some
foreign land this race detested by the gods. The people, who had been collected
after diligent search, finding themselves left in a desert, sat for the
most part in a stupor of grief, till one of the exiles, Moyses by name,
warned them not to look for any relief from God or man, forsaken as they
were of both, but to trust to themselves, taking for their heaven-sent
leader that man who should first help them to be quit of their present
misery. They agreed, and in utter ignorance began to advance at random.
Nothing, however, distressed them so much as the scarcity of water, and
they had sunk ready to perish in all directions over the plain, when a
herd of wild asses was seen to retire from their pasture to a rock shaded
by trees. Moyses followed them, and, guided by the appearance of a grassy
spot, discovered an abundant spring of water. This furnished relief. After
a continuous journey for six days, on the seventh they possessed themselves
of a country, from which they expelled the inhabitants, and in which they
founded a city and a temple. 
[5.4] Moyses, wishing to secure for the
future his authority over the nation, gave them a novel form of worship,
opposed to all that is practised by other men. Things sacred with us, with
them have no sanctity, while they allow what with us is forbidden. In their
holy place they have consecrated an image of the animal by whose guidance
they found deliverance from their long and thirsty wanderings. They slay
the ram, seemingly in derision of Hammon, and they sacrifice the ox, because
the Egyptians worship it as Apis. They abstain from swine's flesh, in consideration
of what they suffered when they were infected by the leprosy to which this
animal is liable. By their frequent fasts they still bear witness to the
long hunger of former days, and the Jewish bread, made without leaven,
is retained as a memorial of their hurried seizure of corn. We are told
that the rest of the seventh day was adopted, because this day brought
with it a termination of their toils; after a while the charm of indolence
beguilded them into giving up the seventh year also to inaction. But others
say that it is an observance in honour of Saturn, either from the primitive
elements of their faith having been transmitted from the Idaei, who are
said to have shared the flight of that God, and to have founded the race,
or from the circumstance that of the seven stars which rule the destinies
of men Saturn moves in the highest orbit and with the mightiest power,
and that many of the heavenly bodies complete their revolutions and courses
in multiples of seven. 
[5.5] This worship, however introduced,
is upheld by its antiquity; all their other customs, which are at once
perverse and disgusting, owe their strength to their very badness. The
most degraded out of other races, scorning their national beliefs, brought
to them their contributions and presents. This augmented the wealth of
the Jews, as also did the fact, that among themselves they are inflexibly
honest and ever ready to shew compassion, though they regard the rest of
mankind with all the hatred of enemies. They sit apart at meals, they sleep
apart, and though, as a nation, they are singularly prone to lust, they
abstain from intercourse with foreign women; among themselves nothing is
unlawful. Circumcision was adopted by them as a mark of difference from
other men. Those who come over to their religion adopt the practice, and
have this lesson first instilled into them, to despise all gods, to disown
their country, and set at nought parents, children, and brethren. Still
they provide for the increase of their numbers. It is a crime among them
to kill any newly-born infant. They hold that the souls of all who perish
in battle or by the hands of the executioner are immortal. Hence a passion
for propagating their race and a contempt for death. They are wont to bury
rather than to burn their dead, following in this the Egyptian custom;
they bestow the same care on the dead, and they hold the same belief about
the lower world. Quite different is their faith about things divine. The
Egyptians worship many animals and images of monstrous form; the Jews have
purely mental conceptions of Deity, as one in essence. They call those
profane who make representations of God in human shape out of perishable
materials. They believe that Being to be supreme and eternal, neither capable
of representation, nor of decay. They therefore do not allow any images
to stand in their cities, much less in their temples. This flattery is
not paid to their kings, nor this honour to our Emperors. From the fact,
however, that their priests used to chant to the music of flutes and cymbals,
and to wear garlands of ivy, and that a golden vine was found in the temple,
some have thought that they worshipped father Liber, the conqueror of the
East, though their institutions do not by any means harmonize with the
theory; for Liber established a festive and cheerful worship, while the
Jewish religion is tasteless and mean. 
[5.6] Eastward the country is bounded
by Arabia; to the south lies Egypt; on the west are Phoenicia and the Mediterranean.
Northward it commands an extensive prospect over Syria. The inhabitants
are healthy and able to bear fatigue. Rain is uncommon, but the soil is
fertile. Its products resemble our own. They have, besides, the balsam-tree
and the palm. The palm-groves are tall and graceful. The balsam is a shrub;
each branch, as it fills with sap, may be pierced with a fragment of stone
or pottery. If steel is employed, the veins shrink up. The sap is used
by physicians. Libanus is the principal mountain, and has, strange to say,
amidst these burning heats, a summit shaded with trees and never deserted
by its snows. The same range supplies and sends forth the stream of the
Jordan. This river does not discharge itself into the sea, but flows entire
through two lakes, and is lost in the third. This is a lake of vast circumference;
it resembles the sea, but is more nauseous in taste; it breeds pestilence
among those who live near by its noisome odour; it cannot be moved by the
wind, and it affords no home either to fish or water-birds. These strange
waters support what is thrown upon them, as on a solid surface, and all
persons, whether they can swim or no, are equally buoyed up by the waves.
At a certain season of the year the lake throws up bitumen, and the method
of collecting it has been taught by that experience which teaches all other
arts. It is naturally a fluid of dark colour; when vinegar is sprinkled
upon it, it coagulates and floats upon the surface. Those whose business
it is take it with the hand, and draw it on to the deck of the boat; it
then continues of itself to flow in and lade the vessel till the stream
is cut off. Nor can this be done by any instrument of brass or iron. It
shrinks from blood or any cloth stained by the menstrua of women. Such
is the account of old authors; but those who know the country say that
the bitumen moves in heaving masses on the water, that it is drawn by hand
to the shore, and that there, when dried by the evaporation of the earth
and the power of the sun, it is cut into pieces with axes and wedges just
as timber or stone would be. 
[5.7] Not far from this lake lies a plain,
once fertile, they say, and the site of great cities, but afterwards struck
by lightning and consumed. Of this event, they declare, traces still remain,
for the soil, which is scorched in appearance, has lost its productive
power. Everything that grows spontaneously, as well as what is planted
by hand, either when the leaf or flower have been developed, or after maturing
in the usual form, becomes black and rotten, and crumbles into a kind of
dust. I am ready to allow, on the one hand, that cities, once famous, may
have been consumed by fire from heaven, while, on the other, I imagine
that the earth is infected by the exhalations of the lake, that the surrounding
air is tainted, and that thus the growth of harvest and the fruits of autumn
decay under the equally noxious influences of soil and climate. The river
Belus also flows into the Jewish sea. About its mouth is a kind of sand
which is collected, mixed with nitre, and fused into glass. This shore
is of limited extent, but furnishes an inexhaustible supply to the exporter.

[5.8] A great part of Judaea consists
of scattered villages. They have also towns. Jersualem is the capital.
There stood a temple of immense wealth. First came the city with its fortifications,
then the royal palace, then, within the innermost defences, the temple
itself. Only the Jew might approach the gates; all but priests were forbidden
to pass the threshold. While the East was under the sway of the Assyrians,
the Medes, and the Persians, Jews were the most contemptible of the subject
tribes. When the Macedonians became supreme, King Antiochus strove to destroy
the national superstition, and to introduce Greek civilization, but was
prevented by his war with the Parthians from at all improving this vilest
of nations; for at this time the revolt of Arsaces had taken place. The
Macedonian power was now weak, while the Parthian had not yet reached its
full strength, and, as the Romans were still far off, the Jews chose kings
for themselves. Expelled by the fickle populace, and regaining their throne
by force of arms, these princes, while they ventured on the wholesale banishment
of their subjects, on the destruction of cities, on the murder of brothers,
wives, and parents, and the other usual atrocities of despots, fostered
the national superstition by appropriating the dignity of the priesthood
as the support of their political power. 
[5.9] Cneius Pompeius was the first of
our countrymen to subdue the Jews. Availing himself of the right of conquest,
he entered the temple. Thus it became commonly known that the place stood
empty with no similitude of gods within, and that the shrine had nothing
to reveal. The walls of Jerusalem were destroyed, the temple was left standing.
After these provinces had fallen, in the course of our civil wars, into
the hands of Marcus Antonius, Pacorus, king of the Parthians, seized Judaea.
He was slain by Publius Ventidius, and the Parthians were driven back over
the Euphrates. Caius Sosius reduced the Jews to subjection. The royal power,
which had been bestowed by Antony on Herod, was augmented by the victorious
Augustus. On Herod's death, one Simon, without waiting for the approbation
of the Emperor, usurped the title of king. He was punished by Quintilius
Varus then governor of Syria, and the nation, with its liberties curtailed,
was divided into three provinces under the sons of Herod. Under Tiberius
all was quiet. But when the Jews were ordered by Caligula to set up his
statue in the temple, they preferred the alternative of war. The death
of the Emperor put an end to the disturbance. The kings were either dead,
or reduced to insignificance, when Claudius entrusted the province of Judaea
to the Roman Knights or to his own freedmen, one of whom, Antonius Felix,
indulging in every kind of barbarity and lust, exercised the power of a
king in the spirit of a slave. He had married Drusilla, the granddaughter
of Antony and Cleopatra, and so was the grandson-in-law, as Claudius was
the grandson, of Antony. 
[5.10] Yet the endurance of the Jews
lasted till Gessius Florus was procurator. In his time the war broke out.
Cestius Gallus, legate of Syria, who attempted to crush it, had to fight
several battles, generally with ill-success. Cestius dying, either in the
course of nature, or from vexation, Vespasian was sent by Nero, and by
help of his good fortune, his high reputation, and his excellent subordinates,
succeeded within the space of two summers in occupying with his victorious
army the whole of the level country and all the cities, except Jerusalem.
The following year had been wholly taken up with civil strife, and had
passed, as far as the Jews were concerned, in inaction. Peace having been
established in Italy, foreign affairs were once more remembered. Our indignation
was heightened by the circumstance that the Jews alone had not submitted.
At the same time it was held to be more expedient, in reference to the
possible results and contingencies of the new reign, that Titus should
remain with the army. 
Accordingly he pitched his camp, as I have related, before the walls
of Jerusalem, and displayed his legions in order of battle. 
[5.11] The Jews formed their line close
under their walls, whence, if successful, they might venture to advance,
and where, if repulsed, they had a refuge at hand. The cavalry with some
light infantry was sent to attack them, and fought without any decisive
result. Shortly afterwards the enemy retreated. During the following days
they fought a series of engagements in front of the gates, till they were
driven within the walls by continual defeats. The Romans then began to
prepare for an assault. It seemed beneath them to await the result of famine.
The army demanded the more perilous alternative, some prompted by courage,
many by sheer ferocity and greed of gain. Titus himself had Rome with all
its wealth and pleasures before his eyes. Jerusalem must fall at once,
or it would delay his enjoyment of them. But the commanding situation of
the city had been strengthened by enormous works which would have been
a thorough defence even for level ground. Two hills of great height were
fenced in by walls which had been skilfully obliqued or bent inwards, in
such a manner that the flank of an assailant was exposed to missiles. The
rock terminated in a precipice; the towers were raised to a height of sixty
feet, where the hill lent its aid to the fortifications, where the ground
fell, to a height of one hundred and twenty. They had a marvellous appearance,
and to a distant spectator seemed to be of uniform elevation. Within were
other walls surrounding the palace, and, rising to a conspicuous height,
the tower Antonia, so called by Herod, in honour of Marcus Antonius. 
[5.12] The temple resembled a citadel,
and had its own walls, which were more laboriously constructed than the
others. Even the colonnades with which it was surrounded formed an admirable
outwork. It contained an inexhaustible spring; there were subterranean
excavations in the hill, and tanks and cisterns for holding rain water.
The founders of the state had foreseen that frequent wars would result
from the singularity of its customs, and so had made every provision against
the most protracted siege. After the capture of their city by Pompey, experience
and apprehension taught them much. Availing themselves of the sordid policy
of the Claudian era to purchase the right of fortification, they raised
in time of peace such walls as were suited for war. Their numbers were
increased by a vast rabble collected from the overthrow of the other cities.
All the most obstinate rebels had escaped into the place, and perpetual
seditions were the consequence. There were three generals, and as many
armies. Simon held the outer and larger circuit of walls. John, also called
Bargioras, occupied the middle city. Eleazar had fortified the temple.
John and Simon were strong in numbers and equipment, Eleazar in position.
There were continual skirmishes, surprises, and incendiary fires, and a
vast quantity of corn was burnt. Before long John sent some emissaries,
who, under pretence of sacrificing, slaughtered Eleazar and his partisans,
and gained possession of the temple. The city was thus divided between
two factions, till, as the Romans approached, war with the foreigner brought
about a reconciliation. 
[5.13] Prodigies had occurred, which
this nation, prone to superstition, but hating all religious rites, did
not deem it lawful to expiate by offering and sacrifice. There had been
seen hosts joining battle in the skies, the fiery gleam of arms, the temple
illuminated by a sudden radiance from the clouds. The doors of the inner
shrine were suddenly thrown open, and a voice of more than mortal tone
was heard to cry that the Gods were departing. At the same instant there
was a mighty stir as of departure. Some few put a fearful meaning on these
events, but in most there was a firm persuasion, that in the ancient records
of their priests was contained a prediction of how at this very time the
East was to grow powerful, and rulers, coming from Judaea, were to acquire
universal empire. These mysterious prophecies had pointed to Vespasian
and Titus, but the common people, with the usual blindness of ambition,
had interpreted these mighty destinies of themselves, and could not be
brought even by disasters to believe the truth. I have heard that the total
number of the besieged, of every age and both sexes, amounted to six hundred
thousand. All who were able bore arms, and a number, more than proportionate
to the population, had the courage to do so. Men and women showed equal
resolution, and life seemed more terrible than death, if they were to be
forced to leave their country. Such was this city and nation; and Titus
Caesar, seeing that the position forbad an assault or any of the more rapid
operations of war, determined to proceed by earthworks and covered approaches.
The legions had their respective duties assigned to them, and there was
a cessation from fighting, till all the inventions, used in ancient warfare,
or devised by modern ingenuity for the reduction of cities, were constructed.

[5.14] Meanwhile Civilis, having recruited
his army from Germany after his defeat among the Treveri, took up his position
at the Old Camp, where his situation would protect him, and where the courage
of his barbarian troops would be raised by the recollection of successes
gained on the spot. He was followed to this place by Cerialis, whose forces
had now been doubled by the arrival of the 2nd, 6th, and 14th legions.
The auxiliary infantry and cavalry, summoned long before, had hastened
to join him after his victory. Neither of the generals loved delay. But
a wide extent of plain naturally saturated with water kept them apart.
Civilis had also thrown a dam obliquely across the Rhine, so that the stream,
diverted by the obstacle, might overflow the adjacent country. Such was
the character of the district, full of hidden perils from the varying depth
of the fords, and unfavourable to our troops. The Roman soldier is heavily
armed and afraid to swim, while the German, who is accustomed to rivers,
is favoured by the lightness of his equipment and the height of his stature.

[5.15] The Batavi provoking a conflict,
the struggle was at once begun by all the boldest spirits among our troops,
but a panic arose, when they saw arms and horses swallowed up in the vast
depths of the marshes. The Germans leapt lightly through the well-known
shallows, and frequently, quitting the front, hung on the rear and flanks
of our army. It was neither the close nor the distant fighting of a land-battle;
it was more like a naval contest. Struggling among the waters, or exerting
every limb where they found any firm footing, the wounded and the unhurt,
those who could swim and those who could not, were involved in one common
destruction. The loss however was less than might have been expected from
the confusion, for the Germans, not venturing to leave the morass, returned
to their camp. The result of this battle roused both generals, though from
different motives, to hasten on the final struggle. Civilis was anxious
to follow up his success; Cerialis to wipe out his disgrace. The Germans
were flushed with success; the Romans were thoroughly roused by shame.
The barbarians spent the night in singing and shouting; our men in rage
and threats of vengeance. 
[5.16] Next morning Cerialis formed
his front with the cavalry and auxiliary infantry; in the second line were
posted the legions, the general reserving a picked force for unforeseen
contingencies. Civilis confronted him with his troops ranged, not in line,
but in columns. On the right were the Batavi and the Gugerni; the left,
which was nearer the river, was occupied by the Transrhenane tribes. The
exhortations of the generals were not addressed as formal harangues to
the assembled armies, but to the divisions separately, as they rode along
the line. Cerialis spoke of the old glory of the Roman name, of former
and of recent victories; he told them that in destroying for ever their
treacherous, cowardly, and beaten foe, they had to execute a punishment,
rather than to fight a battle. They had lately contended with a superior
force, and yet the Germans, the strength of the hostile army, had been
routed; a few were left, who carried terror in their hearts and scars upon
their backs. He addressed to the several legions appropriate appeals. The
14th were styled the "Conquerors of Britain"; the powerful influence
of the 6th had made Galba Emperor; the men of the 2nd were in that battle
first to consecrate their new standards and new eagle. Then riding up to
the army of Germany, he stretched forth his hand, and implored them to
recover their river bank and their camp by the slaughter of the foe. A
joyful shout arose from the whole army, some of whom after long peace lusted
for battle, while others, weary of war, desired peace; all were looking
for rewards and for future repose. 
[5.17] Nor did Civilis marshal his army
in silence. He called the field of battle to bear witness to their valour.
He told the Germans and Batavians that they were standing on the monuments
of their glory, that they were treading under foot the ashes and bones
of legions. "Wherever," he said, "the Roman turns his eyes,
captivity, disaster, and everything that is terrible, confront him. Do
not be alarmed by the adverse result of the battle among the Treveri. There,
their own success proved hurtful to the Germans, for, throwing away their
arms, they hampered their hands with plunder. Since then everything has
been favourable to us, and against the foe. All precautions, which the
skill of a general should take, have been taken. Here are these flooded
plains which we know so well, here the marshes so fatal to the enemy. The
Rhine and the Gods of Germany are in your sight. Under their auspices give
battle, remembering your wives, your parents, and your father-land. This
day will either be the most glorious among the deeds of the past, or will
be infamous in the eyes of posterity." These words were hailed, according
to their custom, with the clash of arms and with wild antics, and then
the battle was commenced by a discharge of stones, leaden balls, and other
missiles, our soldiers not entering the morass, while the Germans sought
to provoke, and so draw them on. 
[5.18] When their store of missiles
was spent, and the battle grew hotter, a fiercer onslaught was made by
the enemy. Their tall stature and very long spears enabled them, without
closing, to wound our men, who were wavering and unsteady. At the same
time a column of the Bructeri swam across from the dam, which I have described
as carried out into the river. Here there was some confusion. The line
of the allied infantry was being driven back, when the legions took up
the contest. The fury of the enemy was checked, and the battle again became
equal. At the same time a Batavian deserter came up to Cerialis, offering
an opportunity of attacking the enemy's rear, if some cavalry were sent
along the edge of the morass. The ground there was firm, and the Gugerni,
to whom the post had been allotted, were careless. Two squadrons were sent
with the deserter, and outflanked the unsuspecting enemy. At the shout
that announced this success, the legions charged in front. The Germans
were routed, and fled towards the Rhine. The war would have been finished
that day, if the fleet had hastened to come up. As it was, the cavalry
did not pursue, for a storm of rain suddenly fell, and night was at hand.

[5.19] The next day the 14th legion
was sent into the Upper Province to join Gallus Annius. The 10th, which
had arrived from Spain, supplied its place in the army of Cerialis. Civilis
was joined by some auxiliaries from the Chauci. Nevertheless he did not
venture to fight for the defence of the Batavian capital, but carrying
off property that could be removed, and setting fire to the remainder,
he retreated into the island, aware that there were not vessels enough
for constructing a bridge, and that the Roman army could not cross the
river in any other way. He also demolished the dyke, constructed by Drusus
Germanicus, and, by destroying this barrier, sent the river flowing down
a steep channel on the side of Gaul. The river having been thus, so to
speak, diverted, the narrowness of the channel between the island and Germany
created an appearance of an uninterrupted surface of dry ground. Tutor,
Classicus, and one hundred and thirteen senators of the Treveri, also crossed
the Rhine. Among them was Alpinius Montanus, of whose mission into Gaul
by Antonius I have already spoken. He was accompanied by his brother Decimus
Alpinius. His other adherents were now endeavouring to collect auxiliaries
among these danger-loving tribes by appeals to their pity and their greed.

[5.20] The war was so far from being
at an end, that Civilis in one day attacked on four points the positions
of the auxiliary infantry and cavalry and of the legions, assailing the
tenth legion at Arenacum, the second at Batavodurum, and the camp of the
auxiliary infantry and cavalry at Grinnes and Vada, and so dividing his
forces, that he himself, his sister's son Verax, Classicus, and Tutor,
led each his own division. They were not confident of accomplishing all
these objects, but they hoped that, if they made many ventures, fortune
would favour them on some one point. Besides, Cerialis was not cautious,
and might easily be intercepted, as the multiplicity of tidings hurried
him from place to place. The force, which had to attack the tenth legion,
thinking it a hard matter to storm a legionary encampment, surprised some
troops, who had gone out, and were busy felling timber, killed the prefect
of the camp, five centurions of the first rank, and a few soldiers; the
rest found shelter behind the fortifications. At Batavodurum the German
troops tried to break down the bridge partly built. Night terminated an
indecisive conflict. 
[5.21] There was greater danger at Grinnes
and Vada. Civilis attacked Vada, Classicus Grinnes, and they could not
be checked, for our bravest men had fallen, among them Briganticus, who
commanded a squadron of cavalry, and of whose loyalty to the Roman cause
and enmity to his uncle Civilis I have already spoken. But when Cerialis
came up with a picked body of cavalry, the fortune of the day changed,
and the Germans were driven headlong into the river. Civilis, who was recognised
while seeking to stop his flying troops, became the mark of many missiles,
left his horse, and swam across the river. Verax escaped in the same way.
Some light vessels were brought up, and carried off Tutor and Classicus.
Even on this occasion the Roman fleet was not present at the engagement,
though orders had been given to that effect. Fear kept them away, and their
crews were dispersed about other military duties. Cerialis in fact allowed
too little time for executing his commands; he was hasty in his plans,
though eminently successful in their results. Fortune helped him even where
skill had failed, and so both the general and his army became less careful
about discipline. A few days after this he escaped the peril of actual
capture, but not without great disgrace. 
[5.22] He had gone to Novesium and Bonna,
to inspect the camps which were then in course of erection for the winter
abode of the legions, and was making his way back with the fleet, his escort
being in disorder, and his sentries negligent. This was observed by the
Germans, and they planned a surprise. They chose a dark and cloudy night,
and moving rapidly down the stream, entered the entrenchments without opposition.
The carnage was at first helped on by a cunning device. They cut the ropes
of the tents, and slaughtered the soldiers as they lay buried beneath their
own dwellings. Another force put the fleet into confusion, threw their
grapling irons on the vessels, and dragged them away by the sterns. They
sought at first to elude notice by silence, but when the slaughter was
begun, by way of increasing the panic they raised on all sides a deafening
shout. The Romans, awakened by sounds, looked for their arms and rushed
through the passages of the camp, some few with their proper accoutrements,
but most with their garments wrapped round their shoulders, and with drawn
swords in their hands. The general, who was half asleep, and all but naked,
was saved by the enemy's mistake. They carried off the praetorian vessel,
which was distinguished by a flag, believing that the general was on board.
Cerialis indeed had passed the night elsewhere, in the company, as many
believed, of an Ubian woman, Claudia Sacrata. The sentinels sought to excuse
their own scandalous neglect by the disgraceful conduct of the general,
alleging that they had been ordered to be silent, that they might not disturb
his rest, and that, from omitting the watchwords and the usual challenges,
they had themselves fallen asleep. The enemy rowed back in broad daylight
with the captured vessels. The praetorian trireme they towed up the river
Lupia as a present to Veleda. 
[5.23] Civilis was seized by a desire
to make a naval demonstration. He manned all the triremes that he had,
and such vessels as were propelled by a single bank of oars. To these he
added a vast number of boats. He put in each three or four hundred men,
the usual complement of a Liburnian galley. With these were the captured
vessels, in which, picturesquely enough, plaids of various colours were
used for sails. The place selected was an expanse of water, not unlike
the sea, where the mouth of the Mosa serves to discharge the Rhine into
the ocean. The motive for equipping this fleet was, to say nothing of the
natural vanity of this people, a desire to intercept, by this alarming
demonstration, the supplies that were approaching from Gaul. Cerialis,
more in astonishment than alarm, drew up his fleet in line, and, though
inferior in numbers, it had the advantage in the experience of the crews,
the skill of the pilots, and the size of the vessels. The Romans had the
stream with them, the enemy's vessels were propelled by the wind. Thus
passing each other, they separated after a brief discharge of light missiles.
Civilis attempted nothing more, and retired to the other side of the Rhine.
Cerialis mercilessly ravaged the Island of the Batavi, but, with a policy
familiar to commanders, left untouched the estates and houses of Civilis.
Meanwhile, however, the autumn was far advanced, and the river, swollen
by the continual rains of the season, overflowed the island, marshy and
low-lying as it is, till it resembled a lake. There were no ships, no provisions
at hand, and the camp, which was situated on low ground, was in process
of being carried away by the force of the stream. 
[5.24] That the legions might then have
been crushed, and that the Germans wished to crush them, but were turned
from their purpose by his own craft, was claimed as a merit by Civilis;
nor is it unlike the truth, since a capitulation followed in a few days.
Cerialis, sending secret emissaries, had held out the prospect of peace
to the Batavi, and of pardon to Civilis, while he advised Veleda and her
relatives to change by a well-timed service to the Roman people the fortune
of war, which so many disasters had shewn to be adverse. He reminded them
that the Treveri had been beaten, that the Ubii had submitted, that the
Batavi had had their country taken from them, and that from the friendship
of Civilis nothing else had been gained but wounds, defeat, and mourning;
an exile and a fugitive he could only be a burden to those who entertained
him, and they had already trespassed enough in crossing the Rhine so often.
If they attempted anything more, on their side would be the wrong and the
guilt, with the Romans the vengeance of heaven. 
[5.25] Thus promises were mingled with
threats. When the fidelity of the Transrhenane tribes had been thus shaken,
among the Batavi also there arose debates. "We can no longer,"
they said, "postpone our ruin. The servitude of the whole world cannot
be averted by a single nation. What has been accomplished by destroying
legions with fire and sword, but that more legions and stronger have been
brought up? If it was for Vespasian that we fought this war, then Vespasian
rules the world; if we meant to challenge to battle the Roman people, then
what a mere fraction of the human race are the Batavi! Look at the Rhaetians
and Noricans, at the burdens borne by the other allies. No tribute, but
valour and manhood are demanded of us. This is the next thing to liberty,
and if we must choose between masters, then we may more honourably bear
with the Emperors of Rome, than with the women of the Germans." Such
were the murmurs of the lower class; the nobles spoke in fiercer language.
"We have been driven into war," they said, "by the fury
of Civilis. He sought to counterbalance his private wrongs by the destruction
of his nation. Then were the Gods angry with the Batavi when the legions
were besieged, when the legates were slain, when the war, so necessary
to that one man, so fatal to us, was begun. We are at the last extremity,
unless we think of repenting, and avow our repentance by punishing the
guilty." 
[5.26] These dispositions did not escape
the notice of Civilis. He determined to anticipate them, moved not only
by weariness of his sufferings, but also by that clinging to life which
often breaks the noblest spirits. He asked for a conference. The bridge
over the river Nabalia was cut down, and the two generals advanced to the
broken extremities. Civilis thus opened the conference:- "If it were
before a legate of Vitellius that I were defending myself, my acts would
deserve no pardon, my words no credit. All the relations between us were
those of hatred and hostility, first made so by him, and afterwards embittered
by me. My respect for Vespasian is of long standing. While he was still
a subject, we were called friends. This was known to Primus Antonius, whose
letters urged me to take up arms, for he feared lest the legions of Germany
and the youth of Gaul should cross the Alps. What Antonius advised by his
letters, Hordeonius suggested by word of mouth. I fought the same battle
in Germany, as did Mucianus in Syria, Aponius in Moesia, Flavianus in Pannonia."

[At this point the Histories break off. We do not know what happened
to Civilis. The Batavians seem to have received favorable treatment.] 
