
Ignatius to the Trallians











The Epistle of Ignatius 
to the Trallians 
Shorter and Longer 
Versions
------------

Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to the holy Church which is at 
  Tralles, in Asia, beloved of God, the Father of Jesus Christ, elect, and 
  worthy of God, possessing peace through the flesh, and blood, and passion of 
  Jesus Christ, who is our hope, through our rising again to Him,
  which also I salute in its fulness, 
  and in the apostalical character,
  and wish abundance of happiness. 
Ignatius, who is also called Theaphorus, to the holy Church which is at 
  Tralles, beloved by God the Rather, and Jesus Christ, elect, and worthy of 
  God, possessing peace through the flesh and Spirit of Jesus Christ, who is our 
  hope, in His passion by the cross and death, and in His resurrection, which 
  also I salute in its fulness,
  and in the apostolical character,
  and wish abundance of happiness.
Chapter I.-Acknowledgment of Their 
  Excellence.
I know that ye possess an unblameable and sincere mind in patience, and that 
not only in present practice,
but according to inherent nature, as Polybius your bishop has shown me, who has 
come to Smyrna by the will of God and Jesus Christ, and so sympathized in the 
joy which I, who am bound in Christ Jesus, possess, that I beheld your whole 
multitude in him. Having therefore received through him the testimony of your 
good-will, according to God, I gloried to find you, as I knew you were, the 
followers of God.
I know that ye possess an unblameable and sincere mind in patience, and that 
not only for present use,
but as a permanent possession, as Polybius your bishop has shown me, who has 
come to Smyrna by the will of God the Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ, His 
Son, with the co-operation of the Spirit, and so sympathized in the joy which I, 
who am bound in Christ Jesus, possess, that I beheld your whole multitude in 
Him. Having therefore received through him the testimony of your good-will 
according to God, I gloried to find that you were the followers of Jesus Christ 
the Saviour.

Chapter II.-Be Subject to the Bishop, 
  Etc.
For, since ye are subject to the bishop as to Jesus Christ, ye appear to me 
to live not after the manner of men, but according to Jesus Christ, who died for 
us, in order, by believing in His death, ye may escape from death. It is 
therefore necessary that, as ye indeed do, so without the bishop ye should do 
nothing, but should also be subject to the presbytery, as to the apostle of 
Jesus Christ, who is our hope, in whom, if we live, we shall [at last] be found. 
It is fitting also that the deacons, as being [the ministers] of the mysteries 
of Jesus Christ, should in every respect be pleasing to all.
For they are not ministers of meat and drink, but servants of the Church of God. 
They are bound, therefore, to avoid all grounds of accusation [against them], as 
they would do fire.
Be ye subject to the bishop as to the Lord, for "he watches for your souls, 
as one that shall give account to God."
Wherefore also, ye appear to me to live not after the manner of men, but 
according to Jesus Christ, who died for us, in order that, by believing in His 
death, ye may by baptism be made partakers of His resurrection. It is therefore 
necessary, whatsoever things ye do, to do nothing without the bishop. And be ye 
subject also to the presbytery, as to the apostles of Jesus Christ, who is our 
hope, in whom, if we live, we shall be found in Him. It behoves you also, in 
every way, to please the deacons, who are [ministers] of the mysteries of Christ 
Jesus; for they are not ministers of meat and drink, but servants of the Church 
of God. They are bound, therefore, to avoid all grounds of accusation [against 
them], as they would a burning fire. Let them, then, prove themselves to be 
such.

Chapter III.-Honour the Deacons, 
  Etc.
In like manner, let all reverence the deacons as an appointment
of Jesus Christ, and the bishop as Jesus Christ, who is the Son of the Father, 
and the presbyters as the sanhedrim of God, and assembly of the apostles. Apart 
from these, there is no Church.
Concerning all this, I am persuaded that ye are of the same opinion. For I have 
received the manifestation
of your love, and still have it with me, in your bishop, whose very appearance 
is highly instructive,
and his meekness of itself a power; whom I imagine even the ungodly must 
reverence, seeing they are 
also pleased that I do not spare myself. But shall I, when permitted to write on 
this point, reach such a height of self-esteem, that though being a 
condemned
man, I should issue commands to you as if I were an apostle?
And do ye reverence them as Christ Jesus, of whose place they are the 
keepers, even as the bishop is the representative of the Father of all things, 
and the presbyters are the sanhedrim of God, and assembly
of the apostles of Christ. Apart from these there is no elect Church, no 
congregation of holy ones, no assembly of saints. I am persuaded that ye also 
are of this opinion. For I have received the manifestation
of your love, and still have it with me, in your bishop, whose very appearance 
is highly instructive, and his meekness of itself a power; whom I imagine even 
the ungodly must reverence. Loving you as I do, I avoid writing in any severer 
strain to you, that I may not seem harsh to any, or wanting [in tenderness]. I 
am indeed bound for the sake of Christ, but I am not yet worthy of Christ. But 
when I am perfected, perhaps I shall then become so. I do not issue orders like 
an apostle.

Chapter IV.-I Have Need of 
  Humility.
I have great knowledge in God,
but I restrain myself, lest, I should perish through boasting. For now it is 
needful for me to be the more fearful; and not give heed to those that puff me 
up. For they that speak to me [in the way of commendation] scourge me. For I do 
indeed desire to suffer, but I know not if I be worthy to do so. For this 
longing, though it is not manifest to many, all the more vehemently assails 
me.
I therefore have need of meekness, by which the prince of this world is brought 
to nought.
But I measure myself, that I may not perish through boasting: but it is good 
to glory in the Lord. 
And even though I were established
in things pertaining to God, yet then would it befit me to be the more fearful, 
and not give heed to those that vainly puff me up. For those that commend me 
scourge me. [I do indeed desire to suffer
], but I know not if I be worthy to do so. For the envy of the wicked one is not 
visible to many, but it wars against me. I therefore have need of meekness, by 
which the devil, the prince of this world, is brought to nought.

Chapter V.-I Will Not Teach You 
  Profound Doctrines.
Am I not able to write to you of heavenly things? But I fear to do so, lest I 
should inflict injury on you who are but babes [in Christ]. Pardon me in this 
respect, lest, as not being able to receive [such doctrines], ye should be 
strangled by them. For even I, though I am bound [for Christ], yet am not on 
that account able to understand heavenly things, and the places 
of the angels, and their gatherings under their respective princes, things 
visible and invisible. Without reference to such abstruse subjects, I am still 
but a learner [in other respects
]; for many things are wanting to us, that we come not short of God.
For might
not I write to you things more full of mystery? But I fear to do so, lest I 
should inflict injury on you who are but babes [in Christ]. Pardon me in this 
respect, lest, as not being able to receive their weighty import,
ye should be strangled by them. For even I, though I am bound [for Christ], and 
am able to understand heavenly things, the angelic orders, and the different 
sorts 
of angels and hosts, the distinctions between powers and dominions, and the 
diversities between thrones and authorities, the mightiness of the Aeons, and 
the pre-eminence of the cherubim and seraphim, the sublimity of the spirit, the 
kingdom of the Lord, and above all, the incomparable majesty of Almighty 
God-though I am acquainted with these things, yet am I not therefore by any 
means perfect; nor am I such a disciple as Paul or Peter. For many things are 
yet wanting to me, that I may not fall short of God.

Chapter VI.-Abstain from the Poison 
  of Heretics.
I therefore, yet not I, but the love of Jesus Christ, entreat you that ye use 
Christian nourishment only, and abstain from herbage of a different kind; I mean 
heresy. For those
[that are given to this] mix
up Jesus Christ with their own poison, speaking things which are unworthy of 
credit, like those who administer a deadly drug in sweet wine, which he who is 
ignorant of does greedily
take, with a fatal pleasure
leading to his own death.
I therefore, yet not I, out the love of Jesus Christ, "entreat you that ye 
all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you; but that ye 
be perfectly joined together in the same mind, and in the same judgment."
For there are some vain talkers
and deceivers, not Christians, but Christ-betrayers,
bearing about the name of Christ in deceit, and "corrupting the word"
of the Gospel; while they intermix the poison of their deceit with their 
persuasive talk,
as if they mingled aconite with sweet wine, that so he who drinks, being 
deceived in his taste by the very great sweetness of the draught, may 
incautiously meet with his death. One of the ancients gives us this advice, "Let 
no man be called good who mixes good with evil."
For they speak of Christ, not that they may preach Christ, but that they may 
reject Christ; and they speak
of the law, not that they may establish the law, but that they may proclaim 
things contrary to it. For they alienate Christ from the Father, and the law 
from Christ. They also calumniate His being born of the Virgin; they are ashamed 
of His cross; they deny His passion; and they do not believe His resurrection. 
They introduce God as a Being unknown; they suppose Christ to be unbegotten; and 
as to the Spirit, they do not admit that He exists. Some of them say that the 
Son is a mere man, and that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are but the same 
person, and that the creation is the work of God, not by Christ, but by some 
other strange power.

Chapter VII.-The Same 
  Continued.
Be on your guard, therefore, against such persons. And this will be the case 
with you if you are not puffed up, and continue in intimate union with
Jesus Christ our God, and the bishop, and the enactments of the apostles. He 
that is within the altar is pure, but
he that is without is not pure; that is, he who does anything apart from the 
bishop, and presbytery, and deacons,
such a man is not pure in his conscience.
Be on your guard, [therefore, against such persons, that ye admit not of a 
snare for your own souls. And act so that your life shall be without offence to 
all men, lest ye become as "a snare upon a watch-tower, and as a net which is 
spread out."
For" he that does not heal himself in his own works, is the brother of him that 
destroys himself." 
If, therefore, ye also put away conceit, arrogance, disdain, and haughtiness, it 
will be your privilege to be inseparably united to God, for "He is nigh unto 
those that fear Him."
And says He, "Upon whom will I look, but upon him that is humble and quiet, and 
that trembles at my words? "
And do ye also reverence your bishop as Christ Himself, according as the blessed 
apostles have enjoined you. He that is within the altar is pure, wherefore also 
he is obedient to the bishop and presbyters: but he that is without is one that 
does anything apart from the bishop, the presbyters, and the deacons. Such a 
person is defiled in his conscience, and is worse than an infidel. For what is 
the bishop but one who beyond all others possesses all power and authority, so 
far as it is possible for a man to possess it, who according to his ability has 
been made an imitator of the Christ Of God?
And what is the presbytery but a sacred assembly, the counsellors and assessors 
of the bishop? And what are the deacons but imitators of the angelic 
powers,
fulfilling a pure and blameless ministry unto him, as the holy Stephen did to 
the blessed James, Timothy and Linus to Paul, Anencletus and Clement to Peter? 
He, therefore, that will not yield obedience to such, must needs be one utterly 
without God, an impious man who despises Christ, and depreciates His 
appointments.

Chapter VIII.-Be on Your Guard 
  Against the Snares of the Devil.
Not that I know there is anything of this kind among you; but I put you on 
your guard, inasmuch as I love you greatly, and foresee the snares of the devil. 
Wherefore, clothing
yourselves with meekness, be ye renewed
in faith, that is the flesh of the Lord, and in love, that is the blood of Jesus 
Christ. Let no one of you cherish any grudge against his neighbour. Give no 
occasion to the Gentiles, lest by means of a few foolish men the whole multitude 
[of those that believe] in God be evil spoken of. For, "Woe to him by whose 
vanity my name is blasphemed among any."

Now I write these things unto you, not that I know there are any such persons 
among you; nay, indeed I hope that God will never permit any such report to 
reach my ears, He "who spared not His Son for the sake of His holy 
Church."
But foreseeing the snares of the wicked one, I arm you beforehand by my 
admonitions, as my beloved and faithful children in Christ, furnishing you with 
the means of protection
against the deadly disease of unruly men, by which do ye flee from the 
disease [referred to] by the good-will of Christ our Lord. Do ye therefore, 
clothing yourselves with meekness, become the imitators of His sufferings, and of His 
love, wherewith He loved us when He gave Himself a ransom
for us, that He might cleanse us by His blood from our old ungodliness, and 
bestow life on us when we were almost on the point of perishing through the 
depravity that was in us. Let no one of you, therefore, cherish any grudge 
against his neighbour. For says our Lord, "Forgive, and it shall be forgiven 
unto you."
Give no occasion to the Gentiles, lest "by means of a few foolish men the word 
and doctrine [of Christ.] be blasphemed."
For says the prophet, as in the person of God, "Woe to him by whom my name is 
blasphemed among the Gentiles."


Chapter IX.-Reference to the History 
  of Christ.
Stop your ears, therefore, when any one speaks to you at variance with
Jesus Christ, who was descended from David, and was also of Mary; who was truly 
born, and did eat and drink. He was truly persecuted under Pontius Pilate; He 
was truly crucified, and [truly] died, in the sight of beings in heaven, and on 
earth, and under the earth. He was also truly raised from the dead, His Father 
quickening Him, even as after the same manner His Father will so raise up us who 
believe in Him by Christ Jesus, apart from whom we do not possess the true 
life.
Stop your ears, therefore, when any one speaks to you at variance with
Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who was descended from David, and was also of 
Mary; who was truly begotten of God and of the Virgin, but not after the same 
manner. For indeed God and man are not the same. He truly assumed a body; for 
"the Word was made flesh,"
and lived upon earth without sin. For says He, "Which of you convicteth me of 
sin?"
He did in reality both eat and drink. He was crucified and died under Pontius 
Pilate. He really, and not merely in appearance, was crucified, and died, in the 
sight of beings in heaven, and on earth, and under the earth. By those in heaven 
I mean such as are possessed of incorporeal natures; by those on earth, the Jews 
and Romans, and such persons as were present at that time when the Lord was 
crucified; and by those under the earth, the multitude that arose along with the 
Lord. For says the Scripture, "Many bodies of the saints that slept 
arose," their graves being opened. He descended, indeed, into Hades alone, but He arose 
accompanied by a multitude; and rent asunder that means
of separation which had existed from the beginning of the world, and cast down 
its partition-wall. He also rose again in three days, the Father raising Him up; 
and after spending forty days with the apostles, He was received up to the 
Father, and "sat down at His right hand, expecting till His enemies are placed 
under His feet."
On the day of the preparation, then, at the third hour, He received the sentence 
from Pilate, the Father permitting that to happen; at the sixth hour He was 
crucified; at the ninth hour He gave up the ghost; and before sunset He was 
buried.
During the Sabbath He continued under the earth in the tomb in which Joseph of 
Arimathaea had laid Him. At the dawning of the Lord's day He arose from the 
dead, according to what was spoken by Himself, "As Jonah was three days and 
three nights in the whale's belly, so shall the Son of man also be three days 
and three nights in the heart of the earth."
The day of the preparation, then, comprises the passion; the Sabbath embraces 
the burial; the Lord's Day contains the resurrection.

Chapter X.-The Reality of Christ's 
  Passion.
But if, as some that are without God, that is, the unbelieving, say, that He 
only seemed to suffer (they themselves only seeming to exist), then why am I in 
bonds? Why do I long to be exposed to
the wild beasts? Do I therefore die in vain?
Am I not then guilty of falsehood
against [the cross of] the Lord?
But if, as some that are without God, that is, the unbelieving, say, He 
became man in appearance [only], that He did not in reality take unto Him a 
body, that He died in appearance [merely], and did not in very deed suffer, then 
for what reason am I now in bonds, and long to be exposed to
the wild beasts? In such a case, I die in vain, and am guilty of 
falsehood
against the cross of the Lord. Then also does the prophet in vain declare, "They 
shall look on Him whom they have pierced, and mourn over themselves as over one 
beloved."
These men, therefore, are not less unbelievers than were those that crucified 
Him. But as for me, I do not place my hopes in one who died for me in 
appearance, but in reality. For that which is false is quite abhorrent to the 
truth. Mary then did truly conceive a body which had God inhabiting it. And God 
the Word was truly born of the Virgin, having clothed Himself with a body of 
like passions with our own. He who forms all men in the womb, was Himself really 
in the womb, and made for Himself a body of the seed of the Virgin, but without 
any intercourse of man. He was carried in the womb, even as we are, for the 
usual period of time; and was really born, as we also are; and was in reality 
nourished with milk, and partook of common meat and drink, even as we do. And 
when He had lived among men for thirty years, He was baptized by John, really 
and not in appearance; and when He had preached the Gospel three years, and done 
signs and wonders, He who was Himself the Judge was judged by the Jews, falsely 
so called, and by Pilate the governor; was scourged, was smitten on the cheek, 
was spit upon; He wore a crown of thorns and a purple robe; He was condemned: He 
was crucified in reality, and not in appearance, not in imagination, not in 
deceit. He really died, and was buried, and rose from the dead, even as He 
prayed in a certain place, saying, "But do Thou, O Lord, raise me up again, and 
I shall recompense them."
And the Father, who always hears Him,
answered and said, "Arise, O God, and judge the earth; for Thou shall receive 
all the heathen for Thine inheritance."
The Father, therefore, who raised Him up, will also raise us up through Him, 
apart from whom no one will attain to true life. For says He, "I am the life; he 
that believeth in me, even though he die, shall live: and every one that liveth 
and believeth in me, even though he die, shall live for ever."
Do ye therefore flee from these ungodly heresies; for they are the inventions of 
the devil, that serpent who was the author of evil, and who by means of the 
woman deceived Adam, the father of our race.

Chapter XI.-Avoid the Deadly Errors 
  of the Docetae.
Flee, therefore, those evil offshoots [of Satan], which produce death-bearing 
fruit, whereof if any one tastes, he instantly dies. For these men are not the 
planting of the Father. For if they were, they would appear as branches of the 
cross, and their fruit would be incorruptible. By it
He calls you through His passion, as being His members. The head, therefore, 
cannot be born by itself, without its members; God, who is [the Saviour] 
Himself, having promised their union.

Do ye also avoid those wicked offshoots of his,
Simon his firstborn son, and Menander, and Basilides, and all his wicked mob of 
followers,
the worshippers of a man, whom also the prophet Jeremiah pronounces 
accursed.
Flee also the impure Nicolaitanes, falsely so called,
who are lovers of pleasure, and given to calumnious speeches. Avoid also the 
children of the evil one, Theodotus and Cleobulus, who produce death-bearing 
fruit, whereof if any one tastes, he instantly dies, and that not a mere 
temporary death, but one that shall endure for ever. These men are not the 
planting of the Father, but are an accursed brood. And says the Lord, "Let every 
plant which my heavenly Father has not planted be rooted up."
For if they had been branches of the Father, they would not have been "enemies 
of the cross of Christ,"
but rather of those who "killed the Lord of glory."
But now, by denying the cross, and being ashamed of the passion, they cover the 
transgression of the Jews, those fighters against God, those murderers of the 
Lord; for it were too little to style them merely murderers of the prophets. But 
Christ invites you to [share in] His immortality, by His passion and 
resurrection, inasmuch as ye are His members.

Chapter XII.-Continue in Unity and 
  Love.
I salute you from Smyrna, together with the Churches of God which are with 
me, who have refreshed me in all things, both in the flesh and in the spirit. My 
bonds, which I carry about with me for the sake of Jesus Christ (praying that I 
may attain to God), exhort you. Continue in harmony among yourselves, and in 
prayer with one another; for it becomes every one of you, and especially the 
presbyters, to refresh the bishop, to the honour of the Father, of Jesus Christ, 
and of the apostles. I entreat you in love to hear me, that I may not, by having 
written, be a testimony against you. And do ye also pray for me, who have need 
of your love, along with the mercy of God, that I may be worthy of the lot for 
which I am destined, and that I may not be found reprobate.
I salute you from Smyrna, together with the Churches of God which are with 
me, whose rulers have refreshed me in every respect, both in the flesh and in 
the spirit. My bonds, which I carry about with me for the sake of Jesus Christ 
(praying that I may attain to God), exhort you. Continue in harmony among 
yourselves, and in supplication; for it becomes every one of you, and especially 
the presbyters, to refresh the bishop, to the honour of the Father, and to the 
honour of Jesus Christ and of the apostles. I entreat you in love to hear me, 
that I may not, by having thus written, be a testimony against you. And do ye 
also pray for me, who have need of your love, along with the mercy of God, that 
I may be thought worthy to attain the lot for which I am now designed, and that 
I may not be found reprobate.

Chapter 
XIII.-Conclusion.
The love of the Smymaeans and Ephesians salutes you. Remember in your prayers 
the Church which is in Syria, from which also I am not worthy to receive my 
appellation, being the last
of them. Fare ye well in Jesus Christ, while ye continue subject to the bishop, 
as to the command [of God], and in like manner to the presbytery. And do ye, 
every man, love one another with an undivided heart. Let my spirit be 
sanctified
by yours, not only now, but also when I shall attain to God. For I am as yet 
exposed to danger. But the Father is faithful in Jesus Christ to fulfil both 
mine and your petitions: in whom may ye be found unblameable.
The love of the Smyrnaeans and Ephesians salutes you. Remember our Church 
which is in Syria, from which I am not worthy to receive my appellation, being 
the last
of those of that place. Fare ye well in the Lord Jesus Christ, while ye continue 
subject to the bishop, and in like manner to the presbyters and to the deacons. 
And do ye, every man, love one another with an undivided heart. My spirit 
salutes you,
not only now, but also when I shall have attained to God; for I am as yet 
exposed to danger. But the Father of Jesus Christ is faithful to fulfil both 
mine and your petitions: in whom may we be found without spot. May I have joy of 
you in the Lord.

