
Ignatius to the Philadelphians












THE EPISTLE OF IGNATIUS TO THE PHILADELPHIANS SHORTER VERSION 
Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to the Church of God the Father, and 
our Lord Jesus Christ, which is at Philadelphia, in Asia, which has obtained 
mercy, and is established in the harmony of God, and rejoiceth unceasingly in 
the passion of our Lord, and is filled with all mercy through his resurrection; 
which I salute in the blood of Jesus Christ, who is our eternal and enduring 
joy, especially if [men] are in unity with the bishop, the presbyters, and the 
deacons, who have been appointed according to the mind of Jesus Christ, whom He 
has established in security, after His own will, and by His Holy Spirit. 
CHAPTER I.--PRAISE OF THE BISHOP. 
WHICH bishop, I know, obtained the ministry which pertains to the common 
[weal], not of himself, neither by men, nor through vainglory, but by the love 
of God the Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ; at whose meekness I am struck with 
admiration, and who by his silence is able to accomplish more than those who 
vainly talk. For he is in harmony with the commandments [of God], even as the 
harp is with its strings. Wherefore my soul declares his mind towards God a 
happy one, knowing it to be virtuous and perfect, and that his stability as well 
as freedom from all anger is after the example of the infinite meekness of the 
living God. 
CHAPTER II.--MAINTAIN UNION WITH THE BISHOP. 
Wherefore, as children of light and truth, flee from division and wicked 
doctrines; but where the shepherd is, there do ye as sheep follow. For there are 
many wolves that appear worthy of credit, who, by means of a pernicious 
pleasure, carry captives those that are running towards God; but in your unity 
they shall have no place. 
CHAPTER III.--AVOID SCHISMATICS. 
Keep yourselves from those evil plants which Jesus Christ does not tend, 
because they are not the planting of the Father. Not that I have found any 
division among you, but exceeding purity. For as many as are of God and of Jesus 
Christ are also with the bishop. And as many as shall, in the exercise of 
repentance, return into the unity of the Church, these, too, shall belong to 
God, that they may live according to Jesus Christ. Do not err, my brethren. If 
any man follows him that makes a schism in the Church, he shall not inherit the 
kingdom of God. If any one walks according to a strange opinion, he agrees not 
with the passion [of Christ.]. 
CHAPTER IV.--HAVE BUT ONE EUCHARIST, ETC. 
Take ye heed, then, to have but one Eucharist. For there is one flesh of our 
Lord Jesus Christ, and one cup to [show forth] the unity of His blood; one 
altar; as there is one bishop, along with the presbytery and deacons, my 
fellow-servants: that so, whatsoever ye do, ye may do it according to [the will 
of] God. 
CHAPTER V.--PRAY FOR ME. 
My brethren, I am greatly enlarged in loving you; and rejoicing exceedingly 
[over you], I seek to secure your safety. Yet it is not I, but Jesus Christ, for 
whose sake being bound I fear the more, inasmuch as I am not yet perfect. But 
your prayer to God shall make me perfect, that I may attain to that portion 
which through mercy has been allotted me, while I flee to the Gospel as to the 
flesh of Jesus, and to the apostles as to the presbytery of the Church. And let 
us also love the prophets, because they too have proclaimed the Gospel, and 
placed their hope in Him, and waited for Him; in whom also believing, they were 
saved, through union to Jesus Christ, being holy men, worthy of love and 
admiration, having had witness borne to them by Jesus Christ, and being reckoned 
along with in the Gospel of the common hope. 
CHAPTER VI.--DO NOT ACCEPT JUDAISM. 
But if any one preach the Jewish law unto you, listen not to him. For it is 
better to hearken to Christian doctrine from a man who has been circumcised, 
than to Judaism from one uncircumcised. But if either of such persons do not 
speak concerning Jesus Christ, they are in my judgment but as monuments and 
sepulchres of the dead, upon which are written only the names of men. Flee 
therefore the wicked devices and snares of the prince of this world, lest at any 
time being conquered by his artifices, ye grow weak in your love. But be ye all 
joined together with an undivided heart. And I thank my God that I have a good 
conscience in respect to you, and that no one has it in his power to boast, 
either privately or publicly, that I have burdened any one either in much or in 
little. And I wish for all among whom I have spoken, that they may not possess 
that for a testimony against them. 
CHAPTER VII.--I HAVE EXHORTED YOU TO UNITY. 
For though some would nave deceived me according to the flesh, yet the 
Spirit, as being from God, is not deceived. For it knows both whence it comes 
and whither it goes, and detects the secrets [of the heart]. For, when I was 
among you, I cried, I spoke with a loud voice: Give heed to the bishop, and to 
the presbytery and deacons. Now, some suspected me of having spoken thus, as 
knowing beforehand the division caused by some among you. But He is my witness, 
for whose sake I am in bonds, that I got no intelligence from any man. But the 
Spirit proclaimed these words: Do nothing without the bishop; keep your bodies 
as the temples of God; love unity; avoid divisions; be the followers of Jesus 
Christ, even as He is of His Father. 
CHAPTER VIII.--THE SAME CONTINUED. 
I therefore did what belonged to me, as a man devoted to unity. For where 
there is division and wrath, God doth not dwell. To all them that repent, the 
Lord grants forgiveness, if they turn in penitence to the unity of God, and to 
communion with the bishop. I trust [as to you] in the grace of Jesus Christ, who 
shall free you from every bond. And I exhort you to do nothing out of strife, 
but according to the doctrine of Christ. When I heard some saying, If I do not 
find it in the ancient Scriptures, I will not believe the Gospel; on my saying 
to them, It is written, they answered me, That remains to be proved. But to me 
Jesus Christ is in the place of all that is ancient: His cross, and death, and 
resurrection, and the faith which is by Him, are undefiled monuments of 
antiquity; by which I desire, through your prayers, to be justified. 
CHAPTER IX.--THE OLD TESTAMENT IS GOOD: THE NEW TESTAMENT IS BETTER. 
The priests indeed are good, but the High Priest is better; to whom the holy 
of holies has been committed, and who alone has been trusted with the secrets of 
God. He is the door of the Father, by which enter in Abraham, and Isaac, and 
Jacob, and the prophets, and the apostles, and the Church. All these have for 
their object the attaining to the unity of God. But the Gospel possesses 
something transcendent [above the former dispensation], viz., the appearance of 
our Lord Jesus Christ, His passion and resurrection. For the beloved prophets 
announced Him, but the Gospel is the perfection of immortality. All these things 
are good together, if ye believe in love. 
CHAPTER X.--CONGRATULATE THE INHABITANTS OF ANTIOCH ON THE CLOSE OF THE 
PERSECUTION. 
Since, according to your prayers, and the compassion which ye feel in Christ 
Jesus, it is reported to me that the Church which is at Antioch in Syria 
possesses peace, it will become you, as a Church of God, to elect a deacon to 
act as the ambassador of God[for you] to[the brethren there], that he may 
rejoice along with them when they are met together, and glorify the name[of 
God], Blessed is he in Jesus Christ, who shall be deemed worthy of such a 
ministry; and ye too shall be glorified. And if ye are willing, it is not beyond 
your power to do this, for the sake of God; as also the nearest Churches have 
sent, in some cases bishops, and in others presbyters and deacons. 
CHAPTER XI.--THANKS AND SALUTATION. 
Now, as to Philo the deacon, of Cilicia, a man of reputation, who still 
ministers to me in the word of God, along with Rheus Agathopus, an elect man, 
who has followed me from Syria, not regarding his life,--these bear witness in 
your behalf; and I myself give thanks to God for you, that ye have received 
them, even as the Lord you. But may those that dishonoured them be forgiven 
through the grace of Jesus Christ! The love of the brethren at Troas salutes 
you; whence also I write to you by Burrhus, who was sent along with me by the 
Ephesians and Smyrnaeans, to show their respect. May the Lord Jesus Christ 
honour them, in whom they hope, in flesh, and soul, and faith, and love, and 
concord! Fare ye well in Christ Jesus, our common hope. 

