
Ignatius to the Smyrnaeans












The Epistle of St. Ignatius of Antioch to the Smyrnaeans, 




translated by Charles H. Hoole, 1885 
CHAPTER 0
0:1 Ignatius, who is also Theophorus, to the Church of God the Father and of 
Jesus Christ the beloved, to her who hath by mercy obtained every gift, filled 
with faith and love, not lacking in any gift, most Godlike, and the mother of 
saints, to her which is in Smyrna in Asia, much joy in the blameless spirit and 
word of God. 

CHAPTER 1
1:1 I glorify God even Jesus Christ, who hath thus made you wise; for I 
perceived that ye were perfected in immovable faith, as though ye were nailed to 
the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ in flesh and in spirit, and firmly fixed in 
love in the blood of Christ, being fully persuaded with regard to our Lord, that 
he was truly of the race of David according to the flesh, the Son of God 
according to the will and power of God; truly born of a virgin; baptized by 
John, that all righteousness might be fulfilled by him; 
1:2 truly nailed for us unto the cross in the flesh in the time of Pontius 
Pilate and Herod the tetrarch; from the fruit of which cross are we, even from 
his divinely blessed passion, that he might raise up a sign unto the ages, by 
means of the resurrection, even unto the saints and them that believe in him, 
whether they be among the Jews or the Gentiles, in one body of his church. 

CHAPTER 2

2:1 All these things did he suffer for our sake, to the end that we might be 
saved. And he truly suffered, even as he truly raised himself up; not as certain 
unbelievers say, that he suffered in semblance, they themselves only existing in 
semblance; and even according to their opinions shall it happen unto them, since 
they are bodiless and of the nature of devils. 

CHAPTER 3
3:1 For I also know and believe, that he exists in the flesh even after the 
resurrection. 
3:2 And when he came unto them who were with Peter he said unto them, Take, 
handle me, and see that I am not a spirit without a body; and straightway they 
touched him and believed, being convinced by his flesh and his spirit. On this 
account also they despised death, and were found superior to death. 
3:3 But after his resurrection, he ate and drank with them, as being in the 
flesh, though spiritually he was united to the Father. 


CHAPTER 4
4:1 These things do I exhort you, beloved, knowing that such is your faith. 
But I put you on your guard against beasts in human shape, whom not only doth it 
behove you not to receive, but, if it is possible, not even to meet. But only 
pray for them, if by any means they may repent; and this is difficult, but it is 
in the power of Jesus Christ, our true life. 
4:2 For if these things were done by our Lord only in appearance, then in 
appearance only am I bound. And why have I given myself up unto death, to fire, 
to sword, to wild beasts? but nearness to the sword is nearness to God; to be 
among the wild beasts is to be in the arms of God; only let it be in the name of 
Jesus Christ. I endure all things that I may suffer together with him, since he 
who became perfect man strengtheneth me. 

CHAPTER 5
5:1 Whom some in ignorance deny, but have rather been denied of him, being 
advocates of death rather than of the truth. Whom the prophets have not 
convinced, nor the law of Moses, nor until now the gospel, nor the sufferings 
which each of us severally have endured; 
5:2 for of a truth they think that our sufferings also are in appearance. For 
how doth a man benefit me, if he praise me but blasphemeth my Lord, not 
confessing that he lived in the flesh? But he who confesseth not this, hath 
denied him completely, being dead while he liveth. 
5:3 But it hath not seemed good unto me to write their names, which are those 
of unbelievers; but may it not even happen unto me to remember them, until they 
repent of their errors with regard to the passion, which is our resurrection. 

CHAPTER 6
6:1 Let no man be deceived. Even the heavenly things, and the glory of the 
angels, and the principalities, both visible and invisible, if they believe not 
on the blood of Christ, for them also is there condemnation. Let him who 
receiveth it, receive it in reality. Let not high place puff up any man. For the 
whole matter is faith and love, to which there is nothing preferable. 
6:2 Consider those who hold heretical opinions with regard to the grace of 
Jesus Christ which hath come unto us, how opposite they are to the mind of God. 
They have no care for love, nor concerning the widow, nor concerning the orphan, 
nor concerning the afflicted, nor concerning him who is bound or loosed, nor 
concerning him who is hungry or thirsty. They refrain from the eucharist and 
from prayer, because they do not confess that the eucharist is the flesh of our 
Saviour Jesus Christ, which suffered for our sins, and which the Father of his 
goodness raised up. 

CHAPTER 7
7:1 They, therefore, who speak against the gift of God, die disputing. But it 
were better for them to love, that they might also rise again. 
7:2 It is, therefore, proper to abstain from such, and not to speak 
concerning them, either in private or in public; but to attend to the prophets, 
and especially to the gospel, in which the passion hath been revealed unto us, 
and the resurrection hath been perfected. 

CHAPTER 8
8:1 But avoid divisions, as being the beginning of evils. Do ye all follow 
the bishop, as Jesus Christ doth the Father; and follow the presbyters as the 
apostles; and have respect unto the deacons as unto the commandment of God. Let 
no one, apart from the bishop, do any of the things that appertain unto the 
church. Let that eucharist alone be considered valid which is celebrated in the 
presence of the bishop, or of him to whom he shall have entrusted it. 
8:2 Wherever the bishop appear, there let the multitude be; even as wherever 
Christ Jesus is, there is the Catholic Church. It is not lawful either to 
baptize, or to hold a love-feast without the consent of the bishop; but 
whatsoever he shall approve of, that also is well pleasing unto God, to the end 
that whatever is done may be safe and sure. 

CHAPTER 9
9:1 It is reasonable for the future to be vigilant, and while we have yet 
time, to repent unto God. It is well to honour God and the bishop; he who 
honoureth the bishop, is honoured of God; he who doeth anything without the 
knowledge of the bishop, serveth the devil. 
9:2 Let all things, therefore, abound unto you in grace, for ye are worthy. 
Ye have refreshed me in all things, and Jesus Christ hath refreshed you. Ye have 
loved me both when absent and present. May God requite you, through whom, by 
enduring all things, ye shall attain unto him. 

CHAPTER 10
10:1 Ye have done well in that ye have received as servants of Christ, who is 
God, Philo and Rheus Agathopus, who have followed me for the sake of God; who 
also return thanks unto the Lord in your behalf, because ye have refreshed them 
in every way. Nothing shall be lost unto you. 
10:2 My spirit is given for yours, and my bonds, which ye have not despised, 
nor have been ashamed of them; nor shall the perfect faith, even Jesus Christ, 
be ashamed of you. 

CHAPTER 11
11:1 Your prayer hath come unto the Church which is at Antioch in Syria, 
whence I salute all, being bound with the most godlike bonds, not being worthy 
to be from thence, being the last of them. But according to his will, I was 
thought worthy, not from any merit of which I am conscious, but of the grace of 
God, which I pray may be given unto me in perfection, that, by means of your 
prayer, I may attain unto God. 
11:2 In order, therefore, that your work may be perfect, both on earth and in 
heaven, it is fitting, for the honour of God, that your church should elect a 
divine ambassador, who, when he has come unto Syria, may congratulate them that 
they are at peace, and have received their proper greatness, and that their own 
governing body has been restored to them. 
11:3 It hath, therefore, appeared unto me to be a worthy thing to send some 
one of yours with the epistle, that he may glorify together with them the 
prosperity which hath happened unto them in accordance with God, and because 
that by your prayer it hath already attained unto the harbour. Since ye are 
perfect, think also such things as be perfect; for if ye are willing to do well, 
God is ready to grant you the opportunity. 

CHAPTER 12
12:1 The love of the brethren who are in Troas saluteth you, whence also I 
write unto you by means of Burrhus, whom ye, together with the Ephesians your 
brethren, sent along with me, who hath in all respects refreshed me; and would 
that all imitated him, who is a pattern of the service of God. Grace shall 
requite him in all things; 
12:2 I salute also your bishop, who is worthy of God, and your godlike 
presbyters, the deacons, who are my fellow-servants, and all of you, both 
individually and in common, in the name of Jesus Christ, in his flesh and his 
blood, in his passion and resurrection, both fleshly and spiritual, in the unity 
both of God and of yourselves. Grace be unto you, mercy, peace, and patience for 
ever. 

CHAPTER 13
13:1 I salute the families of my brethren, together with their wives and 
children, and the virgins who are called widows. Fare ye well in the power of 
the spirit. Philo, who is with me, saluteth you. 
13:2 I salute the house of Tavias, which I pray may be fixed in faith and 
love, both fleshly and spiritual. I salute Alce, the name desired by me, and 
Daphnus the incomparable, and Eutecnus, and all by name. Farewell in the grace 
of God. 
{End of Ignatius to the Smyrnaeans} 

