
Ignatius to the Magnesians












THE EPISTLE OF IGNATIUS TO THE MAGNESIANS SHORTER VERSION 
Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to the [Church] blessed in the grace 
of God the Father, in Jesus Christ our Saviour, in whom I salute the Church 
which is at Magnesia, near the Moeander, and wish it abundance of happiness in 
God the father, and in Jesus Christ. 
CHAPTER I.--REASON OF WRITING THE EPISTLE. 
HAVING been informed of your godly love, so well-ordered, I rejoiced greatly, 
and determined to commune with you in the faith of Jesus Christ. For as one who 
has been thought worthy of the most honourable of all names, in those bonds 
which I bear about, I commend the Churches, in which I pray for a union both of 
the flesh and spirit of Jesus Christ, the constant source of our life, and of 
faith and love, to which nothing is to be preferred, but especially of Jesus and 
the Father, in whom, if we endure all the assaults of the prince of this world, 
and escape them, we shall enjoy God. 
CHAPTER II.--I REJOICE IN YOUR MESSENGERS. 
Since, then, I have had the privilege of seeing you, through Damas your most 
worthy bishop, and through your worthy presbyters Bassus and Apollonius, and 
through my fellow-servant the deacon Sotio, whose friendship may I ever enjoy, 
inasmuch as he is subject to the bishop as to the grace of God, and to the 
presbytery as to the law of Jesus Christ, [I now write to you]. 
CHAPTER III.--HONOUR YOUR YOUTHFUL BISHOP. 
Now it becomes you also not to treat your bishop too familiarly on account of 
his youth, but to yield him all reverence, having respect to the power of God 
the Father, as I have known even holy presbyters do, not judging rashly, from 
the manifest youthful appearance [of their bishop], but as being themselves 
prudent in God, submitting to him, or rather not to him, but to the Father of 
Jesus Christ, the bishop of us all. It is therefore fitting that you should, 
after no hypocritical fashion, obey [your bishop], in honour of Him who has 
wired us [so to do], since he that does not so deceives not [by such conduct] 
the bishop that is visible, but seeks to mock Him that is invisible. And all 
such conduct has reference not to man, but to God, who knows all secrets. CHAP, 
IV.--SOME WICKEDLY ACT INDEPENDENTLY OF THE BISHOP. 
It is fitting, then, not only to be called Christians, but to be so in 
reality: as some indeed give one the title of bishop, but do all things without 
him. Now such persons seem to me to be not possessed of a good conscience, 
seeing they are not stedfastly gathered together according to the commandment. 
CHAPTER V.--DEATH IS THE FATE OF ALL SUCH. 
Seeing, then, all things have an end, these two things are simultaneously set 
before us--death and life; and every one shall go unto his own place. For as 
there are two kinds of coins, the one of God, the other of the world, and each 
of these has its special character stamped upon it,[so is it also here.] The 
unbelieving are of this world; but the believing have, in love, the character of 
God the Father by Jesus Christ, by whom, if we are not in readiness to die into 
His passion, His life is not in us. 
CHAPTER VI.--PRESERVE HARMONY. 
Since therefore I have, in the persons before mentioned, beheld the whole 
multitude of you in faith and love, I exhort you to study to do all things with 
a divine harmony, while your bishop presides in the place of God, and your 
presbyters in the place of the assembly of the apostles, along with your 
deacons, who are most dear to me, and are entrusted with the ministry of Jesus 
Christ, who was with the Father before the beginning of time, and in the end was 
revealed. Do ye all then, imitating the same divine conduct, pay respect to one 
another, and let no one look upon his neighbour after the flesh, but do ye 
continually love each other in Jesus Christ. Let nothing exist among you that 
may divide you ; but be ye united with your bishop, and those that preside over 
you, as a type and evidence of your immortality. 
CHAPTER VII.--DO NOTHING WITHOUT THE BISHOP AND PRESBYTERS. 
As therefore the Lord did nothing without the Father, being united to Him, 
neither by Himself nor by the apostles, so neither do ye anything without the 
bishop and presbyters. Neither endeavour that anything appear reasonable and 
proper to yourselves apart; but being come together into the same place, let 
there be one prayer, one supplication, one mind, one hope, in love and in joy 
undefiled. There is one Jesus Christ, than whom nothing is more excellent. Do ye 
therefore all run together as into one temple of God, as to one altar, as to one 
Jesus Christ, who came forth from one Father, and is with and has gone to one. 
CHAP, VIII.--CAUTION AGAINST FALSE DOCTRINES. 
Be not deceived with strange doctrines, nor with old fables, which are 
unprofitable. For if we still live according to the Jewish law, we acknowledge 
that we have not received grace. For the divinest prophets lived according to 
Christ Jesus. On this account also they were persecuted, being inspired by His 
grace to fully convince the unbelieving that there is one God, who has 
manifested Himself by Jesus Christ His Son, who is His eternal Word, not 
proceeding forth from silence, and who in all things pleased Him that sent Him. 
CHAPTER IX.--LET US LIVE WITH CHRIST. 
If, therefore, those who were brought up in the ancient order of things have 
come to the possession of a new hope, no longer observing the Sabbath, but 
living in the observance of the Lord's Day, on which also our life has sprung up 
again by Him and by His death--whom some deny, by which mystery we have obtained 
faith, and therefore endure, that we may be found the disciples of Jesus Christ, 
our only Master--how shall we be able to live apart from Him, whose disciples 
the prophets themselves in the Spirit did wait for Him as their Teacher? And 
therefore He whom they rightly waited for, being come, raised them from the 
dead. 
CHAPTER X.--BEWARE OF JUDAIZING. 
Let us not, therefore, be insensible to His kindness. For were He to reward 
us according to our works, we should cease to be. Therefore, having become His 
disciples, let us learn to live according to the principles of Christianity. For 
whosoever is called by any other name besides this, is not of God. Lay aside, 
therefore, the evil, the old, the sour leaven, and be ye changed into the new 
leaven, which is Jesus Christ. Be ye salted in Him, lest any one among you 
should be corrupted, since by your savour ye shall be convicted. It is absurd to 
profess Christ Jesus, and to Judaize. For Christianity did not embrace Judaism, 
but Judaism Christianity, that so every tongue which believeth might be gathered 
together to God. 
CHAPTER XI.--I WRITE THESE THINGS TO WARN YOU. 
These things [I address to you], my beloved, not that I know any of you to be 
in such a state; but, as less than any of you, I desire to guard you beforehand, 
that ye fall not upon the hooks of vain doctrine, but that ye attain to full 
assurance in regard to the birth, and passion, and resurrection which took place 
in the time of the government of Pontius Pilate, being truly and certainly 
accomplished by Jesus Christ, who is our hope, from which may no one of you ever 
be turned aside. 
CHAPTER XII.--YE ARE SUPERIOR TO ME. 
May I enjoy you in all respects, if indeed I be worthy! For though I am 
bound, I am not worthy to be compared to any of you that are at liberty. I know 
that ye are not puffed up, for ye have Jesus Christ in yourselves. And all the 
more when I commend you, I know that ye cherish modesty of spirit; as it is 
written, "The righteous man is his own accuser." 
CHAPTER XIII.--BE ESTABLISHED IN FAITH AND UNITY. 
Study, therefore, to be established in the doctrines of the Lord and the 
apostles, that so all things, whatsoever ye do, may prosper both in the flesh 
and spirit; in faith and love; in the Son, and in the Father, and in the Spirit; 
in the beginning and in the end; with your most admirable bishop, and the 
well-compacted spiritual crown of your presbytery, and the deacons who are 
according to God. Be ye subject to the bishop, and to one another, as Jesus 
Christ to the Father, according to the flesh, and the apostles to Christ, and to 
the Father, and to the Spirit; that so there may be a union beth fleshly and 
spiritual. 
CHAPTER XIV.--YOUR PRAYERS REQUESTED. 
Knowing as I do that ye are full of God, I have but briefly exhorted you. Be 
mindful of me in your prayers, that I may attain to God; and of the Church which 
is in Syria, whence I am not worthy to derive my name: for I stand in need of 
your united prayer in God, and your love, that the Church which is in Syria may 
be "deemed worthy of being refreshed by your Church. 
CHAPTER XV.--SALUTATIONS. The Ephesians from Smyrna (whence I also write to 
you), who are here for the glory of God, as ye also are, who have in all things 
refreshed me, salute you, along with Polycarp, the bishop of the Smyrnaeans. The 
rest of the Churches, in honour of Jesus Christ, also salute you. Fare ye well 
in the harmony of God, ye who have obtained the inseparable Spirit, who is Jesus 
Christ. 

