
Ignatius to Polycarp












The Epistle of Ignatius 
to Polycarp
Shorter and Longer 
Versions
------------

Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to Polycarp, Bishop of the 
  Church of the Smyrnaeans, or rather, who has, as his own bishop, God the 
  Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ: [wishes] abundance of happiness.
Ignatius, bishop of Antioch, and a witness for Jesus Christ, to 
  Polycarp, Bishop of the Church of the Smyrnaeans, or rather, who has, as his 
  own bishop, God the Father, and Jesus Christ: [wishes] abundance of 
  happiness.
Chapter I.-Commendation and 
  Exhortation.
Having obtained good proof that thy mind is fixed in God as upon an 
immoveable rock, I loudly glorify [His name] that I have been thought worthy [to 
behold] thy blameless face,
which may I ever enjoy in God! I entreat thee, by the grace with which thou art 
clothed, to press forward in thy course, and to exhort all that they may be 
saved. Maintain thy position with all care, both in the flesh and spirit. Have a 
regard to preserve unity, than which nothing is better. Bear with all, even as 
the Lord does with thee. Support
all in love, as also thou doest. Give thyself to prayer without ceasing.
Implore additional understanding to what thou already hast. Be watchful, 
possessing a sleepless spirit. Speak to every man separately, as God enables 
thee.
Bear the infirmities of all, as being a perfect athlete [in the Christian life]: 
where the labour is great, the gain is all the more.
Having obtained good proof that thy mind is fixed in God as upon an 
immoveable rock, I loudly glorify [His name] that I have been thought worthy to 
behold thy blameless face,
which may I ever enjoy in God! I entreat thee, by the grace with which thou art 
clothed, to press forward in thy course, and to exhort all that they may be 
saved. Maintain thy position with all care, both in the flesh and spirit. Have a 
regard to preserve unity, than which nothing is better. Bear with all even as 
the Lord does with thee. Support
all in love, as also thou doest. Give thyself to prayer without ceasing.
Implore additional understanding to what thou already hast. Be watchful, 
possessing a sleepless spirit. Speak to every man separately, as God enables 
thee.
Bear the infirmities of all, as being a perfect athlete [in the Christian life], 
even as does the Lord of all. For says [the Scripture], "He Himself took our 
infirmities, and bare our sicknesses."
Where the labour is great, the gain is all the more.

Chapter 
II.-Exhortations.
If thou lovest the good disciples, no thanks are due to thee on that account; 
but rather seek by meekness to subdue the more troublesome. Every kind of wound 
is not healed with the same plaster. Mitigate violent attacks [of disease] by 
gentle applications.
Be in all things "wise as a serpent, and harmless as a dove."
For this purpose thou art composed of both flesh and spirit, that thou mayest 
deal tenderly
with those [evils] that present themselves visibly before thee. And as respects 
those that are not seen,
pray that [God] would reveal them unto thee, in order that thou mayest be 
wanting in nothing, but mayest abound in every gift. The times call for thee, as 
pilots do for the winds, and as one tossed with tempest seeks for the haven, so 
that both thou [and those under thy care] may attain to God. Be sober as an 
athlete of God: the prize set before thee is immortality and eternal life, of 
which thou art also persuaded. In all things may my soul be for thing,
and my bonds also, which thou hast loved.
If thou lovest the good disciples, no thanks are due to thee on that account; 
but rather seek by meekness to subdue the more troublesome. Every kind of wound 
is not healed with the same plaster. Mitigate violent attacks [of disease] by 
gentle applications.
Be in all things "wise as a serpent, and harmless always as a dove."
For this purpose thou art composed of both soul and body, art both fleshly and 
spiritual, that thou mayest correct those [evils] that present themselves 
visibly before thee; and as respects those that are not seen, mayest pray that 
these should be revealed to thee, so that thou mayest be wanting in nothing, but 
mayest abound in every gift. The times call upon thee to pray. For as the wind 
aids the pilot of a ship, and as havens are advantageous for safety to a 
tempest-tossed vessel, so is also prayer to thee, in order that thou mayest 
attain to God. Be sober as an athlete of God, whose will is immortality and 
eternal life; of which thou art also persuaded. In all things may my soul be for 
thine, and my bonds also, which thou hast loved.

Chapter 
III.-Exhortations.
Let not those who seem worthy of credit, but teach strange doctrines,
fill thee with apprehension. Stand firm, as does an anvil which is beaten. It is 
the part of a noble
athlete to be wounded, and yet to conquer. And especially, we ought to bear all 
things for the sake of God, that He also may bear with us. Be ever becoming more 
zealous than what thou art. Weigh carefully the times. Look for Him who is above 
all time, eternal and invisible, yet who became visible for our sakes; 
impalpable and impassible, yet who became passible on our account; and who in 
every kind of way suffered for our sakes.
Let not those who seem worthy of credit, but teach strange doctrines,
fill thee with apprehension. Stand firm, as does an anvil which is beaten. It is 
the part of a noble
athlete to be wounded, and yet to conquer. And especially we ought to bear all 
things for the sake of God, that He also may bear with us, and bring us into His 
kingdom. Add more and more to thy diligence; run thy race with increasing 
energy; weigh carefully the times. Whilst thou art here, be a conqueror; for 
here is the course, and there are the crowns. Look for Christ, the Son of God; 
who was before time, yet appeared in time; who was invisible by nature, yet 
visible in the flesh; who was impalpable, and could not be touched, as being 
without a body, but for our sakes became such, might be touched and handled in 
the body; who was impassible as God, but became passible for our sakes as man; 
and who in every kind of way suffered for our sakes.

Chapter 
IV.-Exhortations.
Let not widows be neglected. Be thou, after the Lord, their protector
and friend. Let nothing be done without thy consent; neither do thou anything 
without the approval of God, which indeed thou dost not, inasmuch as thou art 
stedfast. Let your assembling together be of frequent
occurrence: seek after all by name.
Do not despise either male or female slaves, yet neither let them be puffed up 
with conceit, but rather let them submit themselves
the more, for the glory of God, that they may obtain from God a better liberty. 
Let them not long to be set free [from slavery] at the public expense, that they 
be not found slaves to their own desires.
Let not the widows be neglected. Be thou, after the Lord, their protector and 
friend. Let nothing be done without thy consent; neither do thou anything 
without the approval of God, which indeed thou doest not. Be thou stedfast. Let 
your assembling together be of frequent
occurrence: seek after all by name.
Do not despise either male or female slaves, yet neither let them be puffed up 
with conceit, but rather let them submit themselves
the more, for the glory of God, that they may obtain from God a better liberty. 
Let them not wish to be set free [from slavery] at the public expense, that they 
be not found slaves to their own desires.

Chapter V.-The Duties of Husbands and 
  Wives.
Flee evil arts; but all the more discourse in public regarding them.
Speak to my sisters, that they love the Lord, and be satisfied with their 
husbands both in the flesh and spirit. In like manner also, exhort my brethren, 
in the name of Jesus Christ, that they love their wives, even as the Lord the 
Church.
If any one can continue in a state of purity,
to the honour of Him who is Lord of the flesh,
let him so remain without boasting. If he begins to boast, he is undone; and if 
he reckon himself greater than the bishop, he is ruined. But it becomes both men 
and women who marry, to form their union with the approval of the bishop, that 
their marriage may be according to God, and not after their own lust. Let all 
things be done to the honour of God.

Flee evil arts; but all the more discourse in public regarding them. Speak to 
my sisters, that they love the Lord, and be satisfied with their husbands both 
in the flesh and spirit. In like manner also, exhort my brethren, in the name of 
Jesus Christ, that they love their wives, even as the Lord the Church. If any 
one can continue in a state of purity,
to the honour of the flesh of the Lord, let him so remain without boasting. If 
he shall boast, he is undone; and if he seeks to be more prominent
than the bishop, he is ruined. But it becomes both men and women who marry, to 
form their union with the approval of the bishop, that their marriage may be 
according to the Lord, and not after their own lust. Let all things be done to 
the honour of God.


Chapter VI.-The Duties of the 
  Christian Flock.
Give ye
heed to the bishop, that God also may give heed to you. My soul be for 
theirs 
that are submissive to the bishop, to the presbyters, and to the deacons, and 
may my portion be along with them in God! Labour together with one another; 
strive in company together; run together; suffer together; sleep together; and 
awake together, as the stewards, and associates,
and servants of God. Please ye Him under whom ye fight, and from whom ye receive 
your wages. Let none of you be found a deserter. Let your baptism endure as your 
arms; your faith as your helmet; your love as your spear; your patience as a 
complete panoply. Let your works be the charge
assigned to you, that ye may receive a worthy recompense. Be long-suffering, 
therefore, with one another, in meekness, as God is towards you. May I have joy 
of you for ever!

Give ye
heed to the bishop, that God also may give heed to you. My soul be for 
theirs
that are submissive to the bishop, to the presbytery, and to the deacons: may I 
have my portion with them from God! Labour together with one another; strive in 
company together; run together; suffer together; sleep together; and awake 
together, as the stewards, and associates,
and servants of God. Please ye Him under whom ye fight, and from whom ye shall 
receive your wages. Let none of you be found a deserter. Let your baptism endure 
as your arms; your faith as your helmet; your love as your spear; your patience 
as a complete panoply. Let your works be the charge assigned to you, that you 
may obtain for them a most worthy
recompense. Be long-suffering, therefore, with one another, in meekness, and God 
shall be so with you. May I have joy of you for ever!


Chapter VII.-Request that Polycarp 
  Would Send a Messenger to Antioch.
Seeing that the Church which is at Antioch in Syria is, as report has 
informed me, at peace, through your prayers, I also am the more encouraged, 
resting without anxiety in God,
if indeed by means of suffering I may attain to God, so that, through your 
prayers, I may be found a disciple [of Christ].
It is fitting, O Polycarp, most blessed in God, to assemble a very solemn
council, and to elect one whom you greatly love, and know to be a man of 
activity, who may be designated the messenger of God;
and to bestow on him this honour that he may go into Syria, and glorify your 
ever active love to the praise of Christ. A Christian has not power over 
himself, but must always be ready for
the service of God. Now, this work is both God's and yours, when ye shall have 
completed it to His glory.
For I trust that, through grace, ye are prepared for every good work pertaining 
to God. Knowing, therefore, your energetic love of the truth, I have exhorted 
you by this brief Epistle.
Seeing that the Church which is at Antioch in Syria is, as report has 
informed me, at peace, through your prayers, I also am the more encouraged, 
resting without anxiety in God,
if indeed by means of suffering I may attain to God, so that, through your 
prayers, I may be found a disciple [of Christ]. It is fitting, O Polycarp, most 
blessed in God, to assemble a very solemn
council, and to elect one whom you greatly love, and know to be a man of 
activity, who may be designated the messenger of God;
and to bestow on him the honour of going into Syria, so that, going into Syria, 
he may glorify your ever active love to the praise of God. A Christian has not 
power over himself, but must always be ready for
the service of God. Now, this work is both God's and yours, when ye shall have 
completed it. For I trust that, through grace, ye are prepared for every good 
work pertaining to God. Knowing your energetic love of the truth, I have 
exhorted you by this brief Epistle.

Chapter VIII.-Let Other Churches Also 
  Send to Antioch.
Inasmuch as I have not been able to write to all the Churches, because I must 
suddenly sail from Troas to Neapolis, as the will
[of the emperor] enjoins, [I beg that] thou, as being acquainted with the 
purpose
of God, wilt write to the adjacent Churches, that they also may act in like 
manner, such as are able to do so sending messengers,
and the others transmitting letters through those persons who are sent by thee, 
that thou
mayest be glorified by a work
which shall be remembered for ever, as indeed thou art worthy to be. I salute 
all by name, and in particular the wife of Epitropus, with all her house and 
children. I salute Attalus, my beloved. I salute him who shall be deemed worthy 
to go [from you] into Syria. Grace shall be with him for ever, and with Polycarp 
that sends him. I pray for your happiness for ever in our God, Jesus Christ, by 
whom continue ye in the unity and under the protection of God,
I salute Alce, my dearly beloved.
Fare ye well in the Lord.
Inasmuch, therefore, as I have not been able to write to all Churches, 
because I must suddenly sail from Troas to Neapolis, as the will
[of the emperor] enjoins, [I beg that] thou, as being acquainted with the 
purpose
of God, wilt write to the adjacent Churches, that they also may act in like 
manner, such as are able to do so sending messenger, and the others transmitting 
letters through those persons who are sent by thee, that thou mayest be 
glorified by a work
which shall be remembered for ever, as indeed thou art worthy to be. I salute 
all by name, and in particular the wife of Epitropus, with all her house and 
children. I salute Attalus, my beloved. I salute him who shall be deemed worthy 
to go [from you] into Syria. Grace shall be with him for ever, and with Polycarp 
that sends him. I pray for your happiness for ever in our God, Jesus Christ, by 
whom continue ye in the unity and under the protection of God. I salute Alce, my 
dearly beloved.
Amen. Grace [be with you]. Fare ye well in the Lord.

