
Ignatius to the Philadelphians












The Epistle of Ignatius 
to the Philadelphians 
Shorter and Longer 
Versions
------------

Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to the Church of God the 
  Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, which is at Philadelphia, in Asia, which 
  has obtained mercy, and is established in the harmony of God, and rejoiceth 
  unceasingly
  in the passion of our Lord, and is filled with all mercy through his 
  resurrection; which I salute in the blood of Jesus Christ, who is our eternal 
  and enduring joy, especially if [men] are in unity with the bishop, the 
  presbyters, and the deacons, who have been appointed according to the mind of 
  Jesus Christ, whom He has established in security, after His own will, and by 
  His Holy Spirit.
Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to the Church of God the 
  Father, and of the Lord Jesus Christ, which is at Philadelphia, which has 
  obtained mercy through love, and is established in the harmony of God, and 
  rejoiceth unceasingly,
  in the passion of our Lord Jesus, and is filled with all mercy through His 
  resurrection; which I salute in the blood of Jesus Christ, who is our eternal 
  and enduring joy, especially to those who are in unity with the bishop, and 
  the presbyters, and the deacons, who have been appointed by the will of God 
  the Father, through the Lord Jesus Christ, who, according to His own will, has 
  firmly established His Church upon a rock, by a spiritual building, not made 
  with hands, against which the winds and the floods have beaten, yet have not 
  been able to overthrow it:
  yea, and may spiritual wickedness never be able to do so, but be thoroughly 
  weakened by the power of Jesus Christ our Lord.
Chapter I.-Praise of the 
  Bishop.
Which bishop,
I know, obtained the ministry which pertains to the common [weal], not of 
himself, neither by men,
nor through vainglory, but by the love of God the Father, and the Lord Jesus 
Christ; at whose meekness I am struck with admiration, and who by his silence is 
able to accomplish more than those who vainly talk. For he is in harmony with 
the commandments [of God], even as the harp is with its strings. Wherefore my 
soul declares his mind towards God a happy one, knowing it to be virtuous and 
perfect, and that his stability as well as freedom from all anger is after the 
example of the infinite
meekness of the living God.
Having beheld your bishop, I know that he was not selected to undertake the 
ministry which pertains to the common [weal], either by himself or by 
men, 
or out of vainglory, but by the love of Jesus Christ, and of God the Father, who 
raised Him from the dead; at whose meekness I am struck with admiration, and who 
by His silence is able to accomplish more than they who talk a great deal. For 
he is in harmony with the commandments and ordinances of the Lord, even as the 
strings are with the harp, and is no less blameless than was Zacharias the 
priest. 
Wherefore my soul declares his mind towards God a happy one, knowing it to be 
virtuous and perfect, and that his stability as well as freedom from all anger 
is after the example of the infinite meekness of the living God.

Chapter II.-Maintain Union with the 
  Bishop.
Wherefore, as children of light and truth, flee from division and wicked 
doctrines; but where the shepherd is, there do ye as sheep follow. For there are 
many wolves that appear worthy of credit, who, by means of a pernicious 
pleasure, carry captive
those that are running towards God; but in your unity they shall have no 
place.
Wherefore, as children of light and truth, avoid the dividing of your unity, 
and the wicked doctrine of the heretics, from whom "a defiling influence has 
gone forth into all the earth."
But where the shepherd is, there do ye as sheep follow. For there are many 
wolves in sheep's clothing, 
who, by means of a pernicious pleasure, carry captive 
those that are running towards God; but in your unity they shall have no 
place.

Chapter III.-Avoid 
  Schismatics.
Keep yourselves from those evil plants which Jesus Christ does not tend, 
because they are not the planting of the Father. Not that I have found any 
division among you, but exceeding purity. For as many as are of God and of Jesus 
Christ are also with the bishop. And as many as shall, in the exercise of 
repentance, return into the unity of the Church, these, too, shall belong to 
God, that they may live according to Jesus Christ. Do not err, my brethren. If 
any man follows him that makes a schism in the Church, he shall not inherit the 
kingdom of God. If any one walks according to a strange
opinion, he agrees not with the passion [of Christ.].
Keep yourselves, then, from those evil planes which Jesus Christ does not 
tend, but that wild beast, the destroyer of men, because they are not the 
planting of the Father, but the seed of the wicked one. Not that I have found 
any division among you do I write these things; but I arm you beforehand, as the 
children of God. For as many as are of Christ are also with the bishop; but as 
many as fall away from him, and embrace communion with the accursed, these shall 
be cut off along with them. For they are not Christ's husbandry, but the seed of 
the enemy, from whom may you ever be delivered by the prayers of the shepherd, 
that most faithful and gentle shepherd who presides over you. I therefore exhort 
you in the Lord to receive with all tenderness those that repent and return to 
the unity of the Church, that through your kindness and forbearance they may 
recover
themselves out of the snare of the devil, and becoming worthy of Jesus Christ, 
may obtain eternal salvation in the kingdom of Christ. Brethren, be not 
deceived. If any man follows him that separates from the truth, he shall not 
inherit the kingdom of God; and if any man does not stand aloof from the 
preacher of falsehood, he shall be condemned to hell. For it is obligatory 
neither to separate from the godly, nor to associate with the ungodly. If any 
one walks according to a strange 
opinion, he is not of Christ, nor a partaker of His passion; but is a 
fox,
a destroyer of the vineyard of Christ. Have no fellowship 
with such a man, lest ye perish along with him, even should he be thy father, 
thy son, thy brother, or a member of thy family. For says [the Scripture], 
"Thine eye shall not spare him."
You ought therefore to "hate those that hate God, and to waste away [with grief] 
on account of His enemies."
I do not mean that you should beat them or persecute them, as do the Gentiles 
"that know not the Lord and God; "
but that you should regard them as your enemies, and separate yourselves from 
them, while yet you admonish them, and exhort them to repentance, if it may be 
they will hear, if it may be they will submit themselves. For our God is a lover 
of mankind, and "will have all men to be saved, and to come to the knowledge of 
the truth."
Wherefore "He makes His sun to rise upon the evil and on the good, and sendeth 
rain on the just and on the unjust; "
of whose kindness the Lord, wishing us also to be imitators, says, "Be ye 
perfect, even as also your Father that is in heaven is perfect."


Chapter IV.-Have But One Eucharist, 
  Etc.
Take ye heed, then, to have but one Eucharist. For there is one flesh of our 
Lord Jesus Christ, and one cup to [show forth
] the unity of His blood; one altar; as there is one bishop, along with the 
presbytery and deacons, my fellow-servants: that so, whatsoever ye do, ye may do 
it according to [the will of] God.
I have confidence of you in the Lord, that ye will be of no other mind. 
Wherefore I write boldly to your love, which is worthy of God, and exhort you to 
have but one faith, and one [kind of] preaching, and one Eucharist. For there is 
one flesh of the Lord Jesus Christ; and His blood which was shed for us is one; 
one loaf also is broken to all [the communicants], and one cup is distributed 
among them all: there is but one altar for the whole Church, and one bishop, 
with the presbytery and deacons, my fellow-servants. Since, also, there is but 
one unbegotten Being, God, even the Father; and one only-begotten Son, God, the 
Word and man; and one Comforter, the Spirit of truth; and also one preaching, 
and one faith, and one baptism; 
and one Church which the holy apostles established from one end of the earth to 
the other by the blood of Christ, and by their own sweat and toil; it behoves 
you also, therefore, as "a peculiar people, and a holy nation,"
to perform all things with harmony in Christ. Wives, be ye subject to your 
husbands in the fear of God;
and ye virgins, to Christ in purity, not counting marriage an abomination, but 
desiring that which is better, not for the reproach of wedlock, but for the sake 
of meditating on the law. Children, obey your parents, and have an affection for 
them, as workers together with God for your birth [into the world]. Servants, be 
subject to your masters in God, that ye may be the freed-men of Christ.
Husbands, love your wives, as fellow-servants of God, as your own body, as the 
partners of your life, and your co-adjutors in the procreation of children. 
Virgins, have Christ alone before your eyes, and His Father in your prayers, 
being enlightened by the Spirit. May I have pleasure in your purity, as that of 
Elijah, or as of Joshua the son of Nun, as of Melchizedek, or as of Elisha, as 
of Jeremiah, or as of John the Baptist, as of the beloved disciple, as of 
Timothy, as of Titus, as of Evodius, as of Clement, who departed this life in 
[perfect] chastity,
Not, however, that I blame the other blessed [saints] because they entered into 
the married state, of which I have just spoken. 
For I pray that, being found worthy of God, I may be found at their feet in the 
kingdom, as at the feet of Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob; as of Joseph, and 
Isaiah, and the rest of the prophets; as of Peter, and Paul, and the rest of the 
apostles, that were married men. For they entered into these marriages not for 
the sake of appetite, but out of regard for the propagation of mankind. Fathers, 
"bring up your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord; "
and teach them the holy Scriptures, and also trades, that they may not indulge 
in idleness. Now [the Scripture] says, "A righteous father educates [his 
children] well; his heart shall rejoice in a wise son."
Masters, be gentle towards your servants, as holy Job has taught you;
for there is one nature, and one family of mankind. For "in Christ there is 
neither bond nor free."
Let governors be obedient to Caesar; soldiers to those that command them; 
deacons to the presbyters, as to high-priests; the presbyters, and deacons, and 
the rest of the clergy, together with all the people, and the soldiers, and the 
governors, and Caesar [himself], to the bishop; the bishop to Christ, even as 
Christ to the Father. And thus unity is preserved throughout. Let not the widows 
be wanderers about, nor fond of dainties, nor gadders from house to house; but 
let them be like Judith, noted for her seriousness; and like Anna, eminent for 
her sobriety. I do not ordain these things as an apostle: for "who am I, or what 
is my father's house,"
that I should pretend to be equal in honour to them? But as your 
"fellow-soldier,"
I hold the position of one who [simply] admonishes you.

Chapter V.-Pray for Me.
My brethren, I am greatly enlarged in loving you; and rejoicing exceedingly 
[over you], I seek to secure your safety. Yet it is not I, but Jesus Christ, for 
whose sake being bound I fear the more, inasmuch as I am not yet perfect. But 
your prayer to God shall make me perfect, that I may attain to that portion 
which through mercy has been allotted me, while I flee to the Gospel as to the 
flesh of Jesus, and to the apostles as to the presbytery of the Church. And let 
us also love the prophets, because they too have proclaimed the Gospel,
and placed their hope in Him,
and waited for Him; in whom also believing, they were saved, through union to 
Jesus Christ, being holy men, worthy of love and admiration, having had witness 
borne to them by Jesus Christ, and being reckoned along with [us] in the Gospel 
of the common hope.
My brethren, I am greatly enlarged in loving you; and rejoicing exceedingly 
[over you], I seek to secure your safety. Yet it is not I, but the Lord Jesus 
through me; for whose sake being bound, I fear the more, for I am not yet 
perfect. But your prayer to God shall make me perfect, that I may attain that to 
which I have been called, while I flee to the Gospel as to the flesh of Jesus 
Christ, and to the apostles as the presbytery of the Church. I do also love the 
prophets as those who announced Christ, and as being partakers of the same 
Spirit with the apostles. For as the false prophets and the false apostles drew 
[to themselves] one and the same wicked, deceitful, and seducing
spirit; so also did the prophets and the apostles receive from God, through 
Jesus Christ, one and the same Holy Spirit, who is good, and sovereign,
and true, and the Author of [saving] knowledge.
For there is one God of the Old and New Testament, "one Mediator between God and 
men," for the creation of both intelligent and sensitive beings, and in order to 
exercise a beneficial and suitable providence [over them]. There is also one 
Comforter, who displayed
His power in Moses, and the prophets, and apostles. All the saints, therefore, 
were saved by Christ, hoping in Him, and waiting for Him; and they obtained 
through Him salvation, being holy ones, worthy of love and admiration, having 
testimony borne to them by Jesus Christ, in the Gospel of our common hope.

Chapter VI.-Do Not Accept 
  Judaism.
But if any one preach the Jewish law
unto you, listen not to him. For it is better to hearken to Christian doctrine 
from a man who has been circumcised, than to Judaism from one uncircumcised. But 
if either of such persons do not speak concerning Jesus Christ, they are in my 
judgment but as monuments and sepulchres of the dead, upon which are written 
only the names of men. Flee therefore the wicked devices and snares of the 
prince of this world, lest at any time being conquered
by his artifices,
ye grow weak in your love. But be ye all joined together 
with an undivided heart. And I thank my God that I have a good conscience in 
respect to you, and that no one has it in his power to boast, either privately 
or publicly, that I have burdened
any one either in much or in little. And I wish for all among whom I have 
spoken, that they may not possess that for a testimony against them.
If any one preaches the one God of the law and the prophets, but denies 
Christ to be the Son of God, he is a liar, even as also is his father the 
devil,
and is a Jew falsely so called, being possessed of
mere carnal circumcision. If any one confesses Christ Jesus the Lord, but denies 
the God of the law and of the prophets, saying that the Father of Christ is not 
the Maker of heaven and earth, he has not continued in the truth any more than 
his father the devil,
and is a disciple of Simon Magus, not of the Holy Spirit. If any one says there 
is one God, and also confesses Christ Jesus, but thinks the Lord to be a mere 
man, and not the only-begotten
God, and Wisdom, and the Word of God, and deems Him to consist merely of a soul 
and body, such an one is a serpent, that preaches deceit and error for the 
destruction of men. And such a man is poor in understanding, even as by name he 
is an Ebionite.
If any one confesses the truths mentioned,
but calls lawful wedlock, and the procreation of children, destruction and 
pollution, or deems certain kinds of food abominable, such an one has the 
apostate dragon dwelling within him. If any one confesses the Father, and the 
Son, and the Holy Ghost, and praises the creation, but calls the incarnation 
merely an appearance, and is ashamed of the passion, such an one has denied the 
faith, not less than the Jews who killed Christ. If any one confesses these 
things, and that God the Word did dwell in a human body, being within it as the 
Word, even as the soul also is in the body, because it was God that inhabited 
it, and not a human soul, but affirms that unlawful unions are a good thing, and 
places the highest happiness
in pleasure, as does the man who is falsely called a Nicolaitan, this person can 
neither be a lover of God, nor a lover of Christ, but is a corrupter of his own 
flesh, and therefore void of the Holy Spirit, and a stranger to Christ. All such 
persons are but monuments and sepulchres of the dead, upon which are written 
only the names of dead men. Flee, therefore, the wicked devices and snares of 
the spirit which now worketh in the children of this world,
lest at any time being overcome,
ye grow weak in your love. But be ye all joined together
with an undivided heart and a willing mind, "being of one accord and of one 
judgment,"
being always of the same opinion about the same things, both when you are at 
ease and in danger, both in sorrow and in joy. I thank God, through Jesus 
Christ, that I have a good conscience in respect to you, and that no one has it 
in his power to boast, either privately or publicly, that I have burdened any 
one either in much or in little. And I wish for all among whom I have spoken, 
that they may not possess that for a testimony against them.

Chapter VII.-I Have Exhorted You to 
  Unity.
For though some would have deceived me according to the flesh, yet the 
Spirit, as being from God, is not deceived. For it knows both whence it comes 
and whither it goes,
and detects the secrets [of the heart]. For, when I was among you, I cried, I 
spoke with a loud voice: Give heed to the bishop, and to the presbytery and 
deacons. Now, some suspected me of having spoken thus, as knowing beforehand the 
division caused by some among you. 
But He is my witness, for whose sake I am in bonds, that I got no intelligence 
from any man.
But the Spirit proclaimed these words: Do nothing without the bishop; keep your 
bodies
as the temples of God;
love unity; avoid divisions; be the followers of Jesus Christ, even as He is of 
His Father.
For though some would have deceived me according to the flesh, yet my spirit 
is not deceived; for I have received it from God. For it knows both whence it 
comes and whither it goes, and detects the secrets [of the heart]. For when I 
was among you, I cried, I spoke with a loud voice-the word is not mine, but 
God's-Give heed to the bishop, and to the presbytery and deacons. But if ye 
suspect that I spake thus, as having learned beforehand the division caused by 
some among you, He is my witness, for whose sake I am in bonds, that I learned 
nothing of it from the mouth of any man. But the Spirit made an announcement to 
me, saying as follows: Do nothing without the bishop; keep your bodies
as the temples of God; love unity; avoid divisions; be ye followers of Paul, and 
of the rest of the apostles, even as they also were of Christ.

Chapter VIII.-The Same 
  Continued.
I therefore did what belonged to me, as a man devoted to
unity. For where there is division and wrath, God doth not dwell. To all them 
that repent, the Lord grants forgiveness, if they turn in penitence to the unity 
of God, and to communion with the bishop.
I trust [as to you] in the grace of Jesus Christ, who shall free you from every 
bond. And I exhort you to do nothing out of strife, but according to the 
doctrine of Christ. When I heard some saying, If I do not find it in the 
ancient
Scriptures, I will not believe the Gospel; on my saying to them, It is written, 
they answered me, That remains to be proved. But to me Jesus Christ is in the 
place of all that is ancient: His cross, and death, and resurrection, and the 
faith 
which is by Him, are undefiled monuments of antiquity; by which I desire, 
through your prayers, to be justified.
I therefore did what belonged to me, as a man devoted to unity; adding this 
also, that where there is diversity of judgment, and wrath, and hatred, God does 
not dwell. To all them that repent, God grants forgiveness, if they with one 
consent return to the unity of Christ, and communion with the bishop.
I trust to the grace of Jesus Christ, that He will free you from every bond of 
wickedness. 
I therefore exhort you that ye do nothing out of strife, 
but according to the doctrine of Christ. For I have heard some saying, If I do 
not find the Gospel in the archives, I will not believe it. To such persons I 
say that my archives are Jesus Christ, to disobey whom is manifest destruction. 
My authentic archives are His cross, and death, and resurrection, and the faith 
which bears on these things, by which I desire, through your prayers, to be 
justified. He who disbelieves the Gospel disbelieves everything along with it. 
For the archives ought not to be preferred to the Spirit.
"It is hard to kick against the pricks; " 
it is hard to disbelieve Christ; it is hard to reject the preaching of the 
apostles.

Chapter IX.-The Old Testament is 
  Good: the New Testament is Better.
The priests
indeed are good, but the High Priest is better; to whom the holy of holies has 
been committed, and who alone has been trusted with the secrets of God. He is 
the door of the Father, by which enter in Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and the 
prophets, and the apostles, and the Church. All these have for their object the 
attaining to the unity of God. But the Gospel possesses something transcendent 
[above the former dispensation], viz., the appearance of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
His passion and resurrection. For the beloved prophets announced Him, 
but the Gospel is the perfection of immortality. 
All these things are good together, if ye believe in love.
The priests
indeed, and the ministers of the word, are good; but the High Priest is better, 
to whom the holy of holies has been committed, and who alone has been entrusted 
with the secrets of God. The ministering powers of God are good. The Comforter 
is holy, and the Word is holy, the Son of the Father, by whom He made all 
things, and exercises a providence over them all. This is the Way
which leads to the Father, the Rock,
the Defence
the Key, the Shepherd,
the Sacrifice, the Door
of knowledge, through which have entered Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, Moses 
and all the company of the prophets, and these pillars of the world, the 
apostles, and the spouse of Christ, on whose account He poured out His own 
blood, as her marriage portion, that He might redeem her. All these things tend 
towards the unity of the one and only true God. But the Gospel possesses 
something transcendent [above the former dispensation], viz. the appearing of 
our Saviour Jesus Christ, His passion, and the resurrection itself. For those 
things which the prophets announced, saying, "Until He come for whom it is 
reserved, and He shall be the expectation of the Gentiles,"
have been fulfilled in the Gospel, [our Lord saying, ] "Go ye and teach all 
nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the 
Holy Ghost."
All then are good together, the law, the prophets, the apostles, the whole 
company [of others] that have believed through them: only if we love one 
another.

Chapter X.-Congratulate the 
  Inhabitants of Antioch on the Close of the Persecution.
Since, according to your prayers, and the compassion which ye feel in Christ 
Jesus, it is reported to me that the Church which is at Antioch in Syria 
possesses peace, it will become you, as a Church of God, to elect a deacon to 
act as the ambassador of God [for you] to [the brethren there], that he may 
rejoice along with them when they are met together, and glorify the name [of 
God]. Blessed is he in Jesus Christ, who shall be deemed worthy of such a 
ministry; and ye too shall be glorified. And if ye are willing, it is not beyond 
your power to do this, for the sake
of God; as also the nearest Churches have sent, in some cases bishops, and in 
others presbyters and deacons.
Since, according to your prayers, and the compassion which ye feel in Christ 
Jesus, it is reported to me that the Church which is at Antioch in Syria 
possesses peace, it will become you, as a Church of God, to elect a bishop to 
act as the ambassador of God [for you] to [the brethren] there, that it may be 
granted them to meet together, and to glorify the name of God. Blessed is he in 
Christ Jesus, who shall be deemed worthy of such a ministry; and if ye be 
zealous [in this matter], ye shall receive glory in Christ. And if ye are 
willing, it is not altogether beyond your power to do this, for the sake 
of God; as also the nearest Churches have sent, in some cases bishops, and in 
others presbyters and deacons.

Chapter XI.-Thanks and 
  Salutation.
Now, as to Philo the deacon, of Cilicia, a man of reputation, who still 
ministers to me in the word of God, along with Rheus Agathopus, an elect man, 
who has followed me from Syria, not regarding
his life,-these bear witness in your behalf; and I myself give thanks to God for 
you, that ye have received them, even as the Lord you. But may those that 
dishonoured them be forgiven through the grace of Jesus Christ! The love of the 
brethren at Troas salutes you; whence also I write to you by Burrhus, who was 
sent along with me by the Ephesians and Smyrnaeans, to show their 
respect.
May the Lord Jesus Christ honour them, in whom they hope, in flesh, and soul, 
and faith, and love, and concord! Fare ye well in Christ Jesus, our common 
hope.
Now, as to Philo the deacon, a man of Cilicia, of high reputation, who still 
ministers to me in the word of God, along with Gaius and Agathopus, an elect 
man, who has followed me from Syria, not regarding
his life,-these also bear testimony in your behalf. And I myself give thanks to 
God for you, because ye have received them: and the Lord will also receive you. 
But may those that dishonoured them be forgiven through the grace of Jesus 
Christ, "who wisheth not the death of the sinner, but his repentance."
` The love of the brethren at Troas salutes you; whence also I write to you by 
Burrhus,
who was sent along with me by the Ephesians and Smyrnaeans, to show their 
respect:
whom the Lord Jesus Christ will requite, in whom they hope, in flesh, and soul, 
and spirit, and faith, and love, and concord. Fare ye well in the Lord Jesus 
Christ, our common hope, in the Holy Ghost.

