
Ignatius to the Smyrnaeans












THE EPISTLE OF IGNATIUS TO THE SMYRAEANS SHORTER VERSION 
Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to the Church of God the Father, and 
of the beloved Jesus Christ, which has through mercy obtained every kind of 
gift, which is filled with faith and love, and is deficient in no gift, most 
worthy of God, and adorned with holiness: the Church which is at Smyrna, in 
Asia, wishes abundance of happiness, through the immaculate Spirit and word of 
God. 
CHAPTER I.--THANKS TO GOD FOR YOUR FAITH. 
I glorify God, even Jesus Christ, who has given you such wisdom. For I have 
observed that ye are perfected in an immoveable faith, as if ye were nailed to 
the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, both in the flesh and in the spirit, and are 
established in love through the blood of Christ, being fully persuaded with 
respect to our Lord, that He was truly of the seed of David according to the 
flesh, and the Son of God according to the will and power of God; that He was 
truly born of a virgin, was baptized by John, in order that all righteousness 
might be fulfilled by Him; and was truly, under Pontius Pilate and Herod the 
tetrarch, nailed[to the cross] for us in His flesh. Of this fruit we are by His 
divinely-blessed passion, that He might set up a standard s for all ages, 
through His resurrection, to all His holy and faithful[followers], whether among 
Jews or Gentiles, in the one body of His Church. 
CHAPTER II.--CHRIST'S TRUE PASSION. 
Now, He suffered all these things for our sakes, that we might be saved. And 
He suffered truly, even as also He truly raised up Himself, not, as certain 
unbelievers maintain, that He only seemed to suffer, as they themselves only 
seem to be[Christians]. And as they believe, so shall it happen unto them, when 
they shall be divested of their bodies, and be mere evil spirits. 
CHAPTER III.--CHRIST WAS POSSESSED OF A BODY AFTER HIS RESURRECTION. 
For I know that after His resurrection also He was still possessed of flesh, 
and I believe that He is so now. When, for instance, He came to those who were 
with Peter, He said to them, "Lay hold, handle Me, and see that I am not an 
incorporeal spirit." And immediately they touched Him, and believed, being 
convinced both by His flesh and spirit. For this cause also they despised death, 
and were found its conquerors. And after his resurrection He did eat and drink 
with them, as being possessed of flesh, although spiritually He was united to 
the Father. 
CHAPTER IV.--BEWARE OF THESE HERETICS. 
I give you these instructions, beloved, assured that ye also hold the same 
opinions[as I do]. But I guard you beforehand from those beasts in the shape of 
men, whom you must not only not receive, but, if it be possible, not even meet 
with; only you must pray to God for them, if by any means they may be brought to 
repentance, which, however, will be very difficult. Yet Jesus Christ, who is our 
true life, has the power of[effecting] this. But if these things were done by 
our Lord only in appearance, then am I also only in appearance bound. And why 
have I also surrendered myself to death, to fire, to the sword, to the wild 
beasts? But,[in fact,] he who is near to the sword is near to God; he that is 
among the wild beasts is in company with God; provided only he be so m the name 
of Jesus Christ. I undergo all these things that I may suffer together with Him, 
He who became a perfect man inwardly strengthening me. 
CHAPTER V.--THEIR DANGEROUS ERRORS, 
Some ignorantly deny Him, or rather have been denied by Him, being the 
advocates of death rather than of the truth. These persons neither have the 
prophets persuaded, nor the law of Moses, nor the Gospel even to this day, nor 
the sufferings we have individually endured. For they think also the same thing 
regarding us. For what does any one profit me, if he commends me, but blasphemes 
my Lord, not confessing that He was[truly] possessed of a body? But he who does 
not acknowledge this, has in fact altogether denied Him, being enveloped in 
death. I have not, however, thought good to write the names of such persons, 
inasmuch as they are unbelievers. Yea, far be it from me to make any mention of 
them, until they repent and return to[a true belief in] Christ's passion, which 
is our resurrection. 
CHAPTER VI--UNBELIEVERS IN THE BLOOD OF CHRIST SHALL BE CONDEMNED. 
Let no man deceive himself. Both the things which are in heaven, and the 
glorious angels, and rulers, both visible and invisible, if they believe not in 
the blood of Christ, shall, in consequence, incur condemnation. "He that is able 
to receive it, let him receive it." Let not[high] place puff any one up: for 
that which is worth all is a faith and love, to which nothing is to be 
preferred. But consider those who are of a different opinion with respect to the 
grace of Christ which has come unto us, how opposed they are to the will of God. 
They have no regard for love; no care for the widow, or the orphan, or the 
oppressed; of the bond, or of the free; of the hungry, or of the thirsty. 
CHAPTER VII.--LET US STAND ALOOF FROM SUCH HERETICS. 
They abstain from the Eucharist and from prayer, because they confess not the 
Eucharist to be the flesh of our Saviour Jesus Christ, which suffered for our 
sins, and which the Father, of His goodness, raised up again. Those, therefore, 
who speak against this gift of God, incur death in the midst of their disputes. 
But it were better for them to treat it with respect, that they also might rise 
again. It is fitting, therefore, that ye should keep aloof from such persons, 
and not to speak of them either in private or in public, but to give heed to the 
prophets, and above all, to the Gospel, in which the passion[of Christ] has been 
revealed to us, and the resurrection has been fully proved. But avoid all 
divisions, as the beginning of evils. 
CHAPTER VIII.--LET NOTHING BE DONE WITHOUT THE BISHOP. 
See that ye all follow the bishop, even as Jesus Christ does the Father, and 
the presbytery as ye would the apostles; and reverence the deacons, as being the 
institution of God. Let no man do anything connected with the Church without the 
bishop. Let that be deemed a proper Eucharist, which is[administered] either by 
the bishop, or by one to whom he has entrusted it. Wherever the bishop shall 
appear, there let the multitude[of the people] also be; even as, wherever Jesus 
Christ is, there is the Catholic Church. It is not lawful without the bishop 
either to baptize or to celebrate a love-feast; but whatsoever he shall approve 
of, that is also pleasing to God, so that everything that is done may be secure 
and valid. 
CHAPTER IX.--HONOUR THE BISHOP. 
Moreover, it is in accordance with reason that we should return to 
soberness[of conduct], and, while yet we have opportunity, exercise repentance 
towards God. It is well to reverence both God and the bishop. He who honours the 
bishop has been honoured by God; he who does anything without the knowledge of 
the bishop, does[in reality] serve the devil. Let all things, then, abound to 
you through grace, for ye are worthy. Ye have refreshed me in all things, and 
Jesus Christ[shall refresh] you. Ye have loved me when absent as well as when 
present. May God recompense you, for whose sake, while ye endure all things, ye 
shall attain unto Him. 
CHAPTER X.--ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF THEIR KINDNESS. 
Ye have done well in receiving Philo and Rheus Agathopus as servants of 
Christ our God, who have followed me for the sake of God, and who give thanks to 
the Lord in your behalf, because ye have in every way refreshed them. None of 
these things shall be lost to you. May my spirit be for you, and my bonds, which 
ye have not despised or been ashamed of; nor shall Jesus Christ, our perfect 
hope, be ashamed of you. 
CHAPTER XI.--REQUEST TO THEM TO SEND A MESSENGER TO ANTIOCH. 
Your prayer has reached to the Church which is at Antioch in Syria. Coming 
from that place bound with chains, most acceptable to God, I salute all; I who 
am not worthy to be styled from thence, inasmuch as I am the least of them. 
Nevertheless, according to the will of God, I have been thought worthy[of this 
honour], not that I have any sense[of having deserved it], but by the grace of 
God, which I wish may be perfectly given to me, that through your prayers I may 
attain to God. In order, therefore, that your work may be complete both on earth 
and in heaven, it is fitting that, for the honour of God, your Church should 
elect some worthy delegate; so that he, journeying into Syria, may congratulate 
them that they are[now] at peace, and are restored to their proper greatness, 
and that their proper constitution has been re-established among them. It seems 
then to me a becoming thing, that you should send some one of your number with 
an epistle, so that, in company with them, he may rejoice over the tranquility 
which, according to the will of God, they have obtained, and because that, 
through your prayers, they have now reached the harbour. As persons who are 
perfect, ye should also aim at those things which are perfect. For when ye are 
desirous to do well, God is also ready to assist you. 
CHAPTER XII.--SALUTATIONS. 
The love of the brethren at Troas salutes you; whence also I write to The 
love of your brethren at Troas salutes you; whence also I write to you by 
Burrhus, whom ye sent with me, together with the Ephesians, your brethren, and 
who has in all things refreshed me. And I would that all may imitate him, as 
being a pattern of a minister of God. Grace will reward him in all things. I 
salute your most worthy bishop, and your very venerable presbytery, and your 
deacons, my fellow-servants, and all of you individually, as well as generally, 
in the name of Jesus Christ, and in His flesh and blood, in His passion and 
resurrection, both corporeal and spiritual, in union with God and you. Grace, 
mercy, peace, and patience, be with you for evermore! 
CONCLUSION. 
I salute the families of my brethren, with their wives and children, and and 
the virgins who are called widows. Be ye strong, I pray, in the power of the 
Holy Ghost. Philo, who is with me, greets you. I salute the house of Tavias, and 
pray that it may be confirmed in faith and love, both corporeal and spiritual. I 
salute Alce; my well-beloved, and the incomparable Daphnus, and Eutecnus, and 
all by name. Fare ye well in the grace of God. 

