
Ignatius to the Ephesians












The Epistle of Ignatius to the Ephesians
Ignatius, who is also called Theopharus, to the Church which is at Ephesus, 
in Asia, deservedly most happy, being blessed in the greatness and fulness of 
God the Father, and predestinated before the beginning of time, that it should 
be always for an enduring and unchangeable glory, being united and elected 
through the true passion by the will of the Father, and Jesus Christ, our God: 
Abundant happiness through Jesus Christ, and His undefiled grace. 
CHAPTER I.--PRAISE OF THE EPHESIANS. 
I have become acquainted with your name, much-beloved in God, which ye have 
acquired by the habit of righteousness, according to the faith and love in Jesus 
Christ our Saviour. Being the followers of God, and stirring up yourselves by 
the blood of God, ye have perfectly accomplished the work which was beseeming to 
you. For, on hearing that I came bound from Syria for the common name and hope, 
trusting through your prayers to be permitted to fight with beasts at Rome, that 
so by martyrdom I may indeed become the disciple of Him "who gave Himself for 
us, an offering and sacrifice to God,"[ye hastened to see me]. I received, 
therefore, your whole multitude in the name of God, through Onesimus, a man of 
inexpressible love, and your bishop in the flesh, whom I pray you by Jesus 
Christ to love, and that you would all seek to be like him. And blessed be He 
who has granted unto you, being worthy, to obtain such an excellent bishop. 
CHAPTER II.--CONGRATULATIONS AND ENTREATIES. 
As to my fellow-servant Burrhus, your deacon in regard to God and blessed in 
all things, I beg that he may continue longer, both for your honour and that of 
your bishop. And Crocus also, worthy both of God and you, whom I have received 
as the manifestation of your love, hath in all things refreshed me, as the 
Father of our Lord Jesus Christ shall also refresh him; together with Onesimus, 
and Burrhus, and Euplus, and Fronto, by means of whom, I have, as to love, 
beheld all of you. May I always have joy of you, if indeed I be worthy of it. It 
is therefore befitting that you should in every way glorify Jesus Christ, who 
hath glorified you, that by a unanimous obedience "ye may be perfectly joined 
together in the same mind, and in the same judgment, and may all speak the same 
thing concerning the same thing," and that, being subject to the bishop and the 
presbytery, ye may in all respects be sanctified. 
CHAPTER III.--EXHORTATIONS TO UNITY. 
I do not issue orders to you, as if I were some great person. For though I am 
bound for the name [of Christ], I am not yet perfect in Jesus Christ. For now I 
begin to be a disciple, and I speak to you as fellow-disciples with me. For it 
was needful for me to have been stirred up by you in faith, exhortation, 
patience, and long-suffering. But inasmuch as love suffers me not to be silent 
in regard to you, I have therefore taken upon me first to exhort you that ye 
would all run together in accordance with the will of God. For even Jesus 
Christ, our inseparable life, is the[manifested] will of the Father; as also 
bishops, settled everywhere to the utmost bounds[of the earth], are so by the 
will of Jesus Christ. 
CHAPTER IV.--THE SAME CONTINUED. 
Wherefore it is fitting that ye should run together in accordance with the 
will of your bishop, which thing also ye do. For your justly renowned 
presbytery, worthy of God, is fitted as exactly to the bishop as the strings are 
to the harp. Therefore in your concord and harmonious love, Jesus Christ is 
sung. And do ye, man by man, become a choir, that being harmonious in love, and 
taking up the song of God in unison, ye may with one voice sing to the Father 
through Jesus Christ, so that He may both hear you, and perceive by your works 
that ye are indeed the members of His Son. It is profitable, therefore, that you 
should live in an unblameable unity, that thus ye may always enjoy communion 
with God. 
CHAPTER V.--THE PRAISE OF UNITY. 
For if I in this brief space of time, have enjoyed such fellowship with your 
bishop--I mean not of a mere human, but of a spiritual nature--how much more do 
I reckon you happy who are so joined to him as the Church is to Jesus Christ, 
and as Jesus Christ is to the Father, that so all things may agree in unity! Let 
no man deceive himself: if any one be not within the altar, he is deprived of 
the bread of God. For if the prayer of one or two possesses such power, how much 
more that of the bishop and the whole Church ! He, therefore, that does not 
assemble with the Church, has even by this manifested his pride, and condemned 
himself. For it is written, "God resisteth the proud." Let us be careful, then, 
not to set ourselves in opposition to the bishop, in order that we may be 
subject to God. 
CHAPTER VI.--HAVE RESPECT TO THE BISHOP AS TO CHRIST HIMSELF. 
Now the more any one sees the bishop keeping silence, the more ought he to 
revere him. For we ought to receive every one whom the Master of the house sends 
to be over His household, as we would do Him that sent him. It is manifest, 
therefore, that we should look upon the bishop even as we would upon the Lord 
Himself. And indeed Onesimus himself greatly commends your good order in God, 
that ye all live according to the truth, and that no sect has any dwelling-place 
among you. Nor, indeed, do ye hearken to any one rather than to Jesus Christ 
speaking in truth. 
CHAPTER VII.--BEWARE OF FALSE TEACHERS. 
For some are in the habit of carrying about the name[of Jesus Christ] in 
wicked guile, while yet they practise things unworthy of God, whom ye must flee 
as ye would wild beasts. For they are ravening dogs, who bite secretly, against 
whom ye must be on your guard, inasmuch as they are men who can scarcely be 
cured. There is one Physician who is possessed both of flesh and spirit; both 
made and not made; God existing in flesh; true life in death; both of Mary and 
of God; first possible and then impossible, even Jesus Christ our Lord. 
CHAPTER VIII.--RENEWED PRAISE OF THE EPHESIANS. 
Let not then any one deceive you, as indeed ye are not deceived, inasmuch as 
ye are wholly devoted to God. For since there is no strife raging among you 
which might distress you, ye are certainly living in accordance with God's will. 
I am far inferior to you, and require to be sanctified by your Church of 
Ephesus, so renowned throughout the world. They that are carnal cannot do those 
things which are spiritual, nor they that are spiritual the things which are 
carnal; even as faith cannot do the works of unbelief, nor unbelief the works of 
faith. But even those things which ye do according to the flesh are spiritual; 
for ye do all things in Jesus Christ. 
CHAPTER IX.--YE HAVE GIVEN NO HEED TO FALSE TEACHERS. 
Nevertheless, I have heard of some who have passed on from this to you, 
having false doctrine, whom ye did not suffer to sow among you, but stopped your 
ears, that ye might not receive those things which were sown by them, as being 
stones of the temple of the Father, prepared for the building of God the Father, 
and drawn up on high by the instrument of Jesus Christ, which is the cross, 
making use of the Holy Spirit as a rope, while your faith was the means by which 
you ascended, and your love the way which led up to God. Ye, therefore, as well 
as all your fellow-travellers, are God-bearers, temple-bearers, Christ-bearers, 
bearers of holiness, adorned in all respects with the commandments of Jesus 
Christ, in whom also I exult that I have been thought worthy, by means of this 
Epistle, to converse and rejoice with you, because with respect to your 
Christian life ye love nothing but God only. 
CHAPTER X.--EXHORTATIONS TO PRAYER, HUMILITY, ETC. 
And pray ye without ceasing in behalf of other men. For there is in them hope 
of repentance that they may attain to God. See, then, that they be instructed by 
your works, if in no other way. Be ye meek in response to their wrath, humble in 
opposition to their boasting: to their blasphemies return your prayers; in 
contrast to their error, be ye stedfast in the faith; and for their cruelty, 
manifest your gentleness. While we take care not to imitate their conduct, let 
us be found their brethren in all true kindness; and let us seek to be followers 
of the Lord(who ever more unjustly treated, more destitute, more condemned?), 
that so no plant of the devil may be found in you, but ye may remain in all 
holiness and sobriety in Jesus Christ, both with respect to the flesh and 
spirit. 
CHAPTER XI.--AN EXHORTATION TO FEAR GOD, ETC. 
The last times are come upon us. Let us therefore be of a reverent spirit, 
and fear the long-suffering of God, that it tend not to our condemnation. For 
let us either stand in awe of the wrath to come, or show regard for the grace 
which is at present displayed--one of two things. Only[in one way or another] 
let us be found in Christ Jesus unto the true life. Apart from Him, let nothing 
attract you, for whom I bear about these bonds, these spiritual jewels, by which 
may I arise through your prayers, of which I entreat I may always be a partaker, 
that I may be found in the lot of the Christians of Ephesus, who have always 
been of the same mind with the apostles through the power of Jesus Christ. 
CHAPTER XII.--PRAISE OF THE EPHESIANS. 
I know both who I am, and to whom I write. I am a condemned man, ye have been 
the objects of mercy; I am subject to danger, ye are established in safety. Ye 
are the persons through whom those pass that are cut off for the sake of God. Ye 
are initiated into the mysteries of the Gospel with Paul, the holy, the 
martyred, the deservedly most happy, at whose feet may I be found, when I shall 
attain to God; who in all his Epistles makes mention of you in Christ Jesus. 
CHAPTER XIII.--EXHORTATION TO MEET TOGETHER FREQUENTLY FOR THE WORSHIP OF 
GOD. 
Take heed, then, often to come together to give thanks to God, and show forth 
His praise. For when ye assemble frequently in the same place, the powers of 
Satan are destroyed, and the destruction at which he aims is prevented by the 
unity of your faith. Nothing is more precious than peace, by which all war, both 
in heaven and earth, is brought to an end. 
CHAPTER XIV.--EXHORTATIONS TO FAITH AND LOVE. 
None of these things is hid from you, if ye perfectly possess that faith and 
love towards Christ Jesus which are the beginning and the end of life. For the 
beginning is faith, and the end is love. Now these two. being inseparably 
connected together, are of God, while all other things which are requisite for a 
holy life follow after them. No man [truly] making a profession of faith 
sinneth; nor does he that possesses love hate any one. The tree is made manifest 
by its fruit; so those that profess themselves to be Christians shall be 
recognised by their conduct. For there is not now a demand for mere profession, 
but that a man be found continuing in the power of faith to the end. 
CHAPTER XV.--EXHORTATION TO CONFESS CHRIST BY SILENCE AS WELL AS SPEECH. 
It is better for a man to be silent and be [a Christian], than to talk and 
not to be one. It is good to teach, if he who speaks also acts. There is then 
one Teacher, who spake and it was done; while even those things which He did in 
silence are worthy of the Father. He who possesses the word of Jesus, is truly 
able to hear even His very silence, that he may be perfect, and may both act as 
he speaks, and be recognised by his silence. There is nothing which is hid from 
God, but our very secrets are near to Him. Let us therefore do all things as 
those who have Him dwelling in us, that we may be His temples, and He may be in 
us as our God, which indeed He is, and will manifest Himself before our faces. 
Wherefore we justly love Him. 
CHAPTER XVI.--THE FATE OF FALSE TEACHERS. 
Do not err, my brethren. Those that corrupt families shall not inherit the 
kingdom of God. If, then, those who do this as respects the flesh have suffered 
death, how much more shall this be the case with any one who corrupts by wicked 
doctrine the faith of God, for which Jesus Christ was crucified! Such an one 
becoming defiled [in this way], shall go away into everlasting fire, and so 
shall every one that hearkens unto him. 
CHAPTER XVII.--BEWARE OF FALSE DOCTRINES. 
For this end did the Lord suffer the ointment to be poured upon His head, 
that He might breathe immortality into His Church. Be not ye anointed with the 
bad odour of the doctrine of the prince of this world; let him not lead you away 
captive from the life which is set before you. And why are we not all prudent, 
since we have received the knowledge of God, which is Jesus Christ? Why do we 
foolishly perish, not recognising the gift which the Lord has of a truth sent to 
us? 
CHAPTER XVIII.--THE GLORY OF THE CROSS. 
Let my spirit be counted as nothing for the sake of the cross, which is a 
stumbling-block to those that do not believe, but to us salvation and life 
eternal. "Where is the wise man? where the disputer?" Where is the boasting of 
those who are styled prudent? For our God, Jesus Christ, was, according to the 
appointment of God, conceived in the womb by Mary, of the seed of David, but by 
the Holy Ghost. He was born and baptized, that by His passion He might purify 
the water. 
CHAPTER XIX.--THREE CELEBRATED MYSTERIES. 
Now the virginity of Mary was hidden from the prince of this world, as was 
also her offspring, and the death of the Lord; three mysteries of renown, which 
were wrought in silence by God. How, then, was He manifested to the world? A 
star shone forth in heaven above all the other stars, the light of Which was 
inexpressible, while its novelty struck men with astonishment. And all the rest 
of the stars, with the sun and moon, formed a chorus to this star, and its light 
was exceedingly great above them all. And there was agitation felt as to whence 
this new spectacle came, so unlike to everything else [in the heavens]. Hence 
every kind of magic was destroyed, and every bond of wickedness disappeared; 
ignorance was removed, and the old kingdom abolished, God Himself being 
manifested in human form for the renewal of eternal life. And now that took a 
beginning which had been prepared by God. Henceforth all things were in a state 
of tumult, because He meditated the abolition of death. 
CHAPTER XX.--PROMISE OF ANOTHER LETTER. 
If Jesus Christ shall graciously permit me through your prayers, and if it be 
His will, I shall, in a second little work which I will write to you, make 
further manifest to you [the nature of] the dispensation of which I have begun 
[to treat], with respect to the new man, Jesus Christ, in His faith and in His 
love, in His suffering and in His resurrection. Especially [will I do this if 
the Lord make known to me that ye come together man by man in common through 
grace, individually, in one faith, and in Jesus Christ, who was of the seed of 
David according to the flesh, being both the Son of man and the Son of God, so 
that ye obey the bishop and the presbytery with an undivided mind, breaking one 
and the same bread, which is the medicine of immortality, and the antidote to 
prevent us from dying, but [which causes] that we should live for ever in Jesus 
Christ. 
CHAPTER XXI.--CONCLUSION. 
My soul be for yours and theirs whom, for the honour of God, ye have sent to 
Smyrna; whence also I write to you, giving thanks unto the Lord, and loving 
Polycarp even as I do you. Remember me, as Jesus Christ also remembered you. 
Pray ye for the Church which is in Syria, whence I am led bound to Rome, being 
the last of the faithful who are there, even as I have been thought worthy to be 
chosen to show forth the honour of God. Farewell in God the Father, and in Jesus 
Christ, our common hope. 

