
Ignatius to Polycarp












THE EPISTLE OF IGNATIUS TO POLYCARP SHORTER VERSION 
Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to Polycarp, Bishop of the Church of 
the Srayrn ans, or rather, who has, as his own bishop, God the Father, and the 
Lord Jesus Christ: [wishes] abundance of happiness. 
CHAPTER I.-- COMMENDATION AND EXHORTATION. 
HAVING obtained good proof that thy mind is fixed in God as upon an 
immoveable rock, I loudly glorify [His name] that I have been thought worthy [to 
behold] thy blameless face, which may I ever enjoy in God! I entreat thee, by 
the grace with which thou art clothed, to press forward in thy course, and to 
exhort all that they may be saved. Maintain thy position with all care, both in 
the flesh and spirit. Have a regard to preserve unity, than which nothing is 
better. Bear with all, even as the Lord does with thee. Support all in love, as 
also thou doest. Give thyself to prayer without ceasing. Implore additional 
understanding to what thou already hast. Be watchful, possessing a sleepless 
spirit. Speak to every man separately, as God enables thee. Bear the infirmities 
of all, as being a perfect athlete [in the Christian life]: where the labour is 
great, the gain is all the more. 
CHAPTER II.--EXHORTATIONS. 
If thou lovest the good disciples, no thanks are due to thee on that account; 
but rather seek by meekness to subdue the more troublesome. Every kind of wound 
is not healed with the same plaster. Mitigate violent attacks [of disease] by 
gentle applications. Be in all things "wise as a serpent, and harmless as a 
dove." For this purpose thou art composed of both flesh and spirit, that thou 
mayest deal tenderly with those [evils] that present themselves visibly before 
thee. And as respects those that are not seen, pray that [God] would reveal them 
unto thee, in order that thou mayest be wanting in nothing, but mayest abound in 
every gift. The times call for thee, as pilots do for the winds, and as on 
tossed with tempest seeks for the haven, so that both thou [and those under thy 
care] may attain to God. Be sober as an athlete of God: the prize set before 
thee is immortality and eternal life, of which thou art also persuaded. In all 
things may my soul be for thing, and my bonds also, which thou hast loved. 
CHAPTER III.--EXHORTATIONS. 
Let not those who seem worthy of credit, but teach strange doctrines, fill 
thee with apprehension. Stand firm, as does an anvil which is beaten. It is the 
part of a noble athlete to be wounded, and yet to conquer. And especially, we 
ought to bear all things for the sake of God, that He also may bear with us. Be 
ever becoming more zealous than what thou art. Weigh carefully the times. Look 
for Him who is above all time, eternal and invisible, yet who became visible for 
our sakes; impalpable and impassible, yet who became passible on our account; 
and who in every kind of way suffered for our sakes. 
CHAPTER IV.--EXHORTATIONS. 
Let not widows be neglected. Be thou, after the Lord, their protector s and 
friend. Let nothing be done without thy consent; neither do thou anything 
without the approval of God, which indeed thou dost not, inasmuch as thou art 
stedfast. Let your assembling together be of of frequent occurrence: seek after 
all by name. Do not despise either male or female slaves, yet neither let them 
be puffed up with conceit, but rather let them submit themselves the more, for 
the glory of God, that they my obtain from God a better liberty. Let them not 
long to be set free [from slavery] at the public expense, that they be not found 
slaves to their own desires. 
CHAPTER V.--THE DUTIES OF HUSBANDS AND WIVES. 
Flee evil arts; but all the more discourse in public regarding them. Speak to 
my sisters, that they love the Lord, and be satisfied with their husbands both 
in the flesh and spirit. In like manner also, exhort my brethren, in the name of 
Jesus Christ, that they love their wives, even as the Lord the Church. If any 
one can continue in a state of purity, to the honour of Him who is Lord of the 
flesh, let him so remain without boasting. If he begins to boast, he is undone; 
and if he reckon himself greater than the bishop, he is ruined. But it becomes 
both men and women who marry, to form their union with the approval of the 
bishop, that their marriage may be according to God, and not after their own 
lust. Let all things be done to the honour of God. 
CHAPTER VI.--THE DUTIES OF THE CHRISTIAN FLOCK. 
Give ye heed to the bishop, that God also may give heed to you. My soul be 
for theirs that are submissive to the bishop, to the presbyters, and to the 
deacons, and may my portion be along with them in God! Labour together with one 
another; strive in company together; run together; suffer together; sleep 
together; and awake together, as the stewards, and associates, and servants of 
God. Please ye Him under whom ye fight, and from whom ye receive your wages. Let 
none of you be found a deserter. Let your baptism endure as your arms; your 
faith as your helmet; your love as your spear; your patience as a complete 
panoply. Let your works be the charge assigned to you, that ye may receive a 
worthy recompense. Be long-suffering, therefore, with one another, in meekness, 
as God is towards you.May I have joy of you for ever! 
CHAPTER VII.--REQUEST THAT POLYCARP WOULD SEND A MESSENGER TO ANTIOCH. 
Seeing that the Church which is at Antioch in Syria is, as report has 
informed me, at peace, through your prayers, I also am the more encouraged, 
resting without anxiety in God, if indeed by means of suffering I may attain to 
God, so that, through your prayers, I may be found a disciple [of Christ]. It is 
fitting, O Polycarp, most blessed in God, to assemble a very solemn council, and 
to elect one whom you greatly love, and know to be a man of activity, who may be 
designated the messenger of God; and to bestow on him this honour that he may go 
into Syria, and glorify your ever active love to the praise of Christ. A 
Christian has not power over himself, but must always be ready for s the service 
of God. Now, this work is both God's and yours, when ye shall have completed it 
to His glory. For I trust that, through grace, ye are prepared for every good 
work pertaining to God. Knowing, therefore, your energetic love of the truth, I 
have exhorted you by this brief Epistle. 
CHAPTER VIII.--LET OTHER CHURCHES ALSO SEND TO ANTIOCH. 
Inasmuch as I have not been able to write to all the Churches, because I must 
suddenly sail from Troas to Neapolis, as the will [of the emperor] enjoins, [I 
beg that] thou, as being acquainted with the purpose of God, wilt write to the 
adjacent Churches, that they also may act in like manner, such as are able to do 
so sending messengers, and the others transmitting letters through those persons 
who are sent by thee, that thou mayest be glorified by a work which shall be 
remembered for ever, as indeed thou art worthy to be. I salute all by name, and 
in particutar the wife of Epitropus, with all her house and children. I salute 
Attalus, my beloved. I salute him who shall be deemed worthy to go [from you] 
into Syria. Grace shall be with him for ever, and with Polycarp that sends him. 
I pray for your happiness for ever in our God, Jesus Christ, by whom continue ye 
in the unity and under the protection of God, I salute Alce, my dearly beloved. 
Fare ye well in the Lord. 

