
Ignatius to the Ephesians












Chapter XXI.-Conclusion.

The Epistle of Ignatius 
to the Ephesians 
Shorter and Longer 
Versions
------------

Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to the Church which is at 
  Ephesus, in Asia, deservedly most happy, being blessed in the greatness and 
  fulness of God the Father, and predestinated before the beginning
  of time, that it should be always for an enduring and unchangeable glory, 
  being united
  and elected through the true passion by the will of the Father, and Jesus 
  Christ, our God: Abundant happiness through Jesus Christ, and His undefiled 
  grace. 
Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to the Church which is at 
  Ephesus, in Asia, deservedly most happy, being blessed in the greatness and 
  fulness of God the Father, and predestinated before the beginning
  of time, that it should be always for an enduring and unchangeable glory, 
  being united
  and elected through the true passion by the will of God the Father, and of our 
  Lord Jesus Christ our Saviour : Abundant happiness through Jesus Christ, and 
  His undefiled joy.
  
Chapter I.-Praise of the 
  Ephesians.
I have become acquainted with your name, much-beloved in God, which ye have 
acquired by the habit of righteousness, according to the faith and love in Jesus 
Christ our Saviour. Being the followers
of God, and stirring up
yourselves by the blood of God, ye have perfectly accomplished the work which 
was beseeming to you. For, on hearing that I came bound from Syria for the 
common name and hope, trusting through your prayers to be permitted to fight 
with beasts at Rome, that so by martyrdom I may indeed become the disciple of 
Him "who gave Himself for us, an offering and sacrifice to God,"
[ye hastened to see me
]. I received, therefore, 
your whole multitude in the name of God, through Onesimus, a man of 
inexpressible love,
and your bishop in the flesh, whom I pray you by Jesus Christ to love, and that 
you would all seek to be like him. And blessed be He who has granted unto you, 
being worthy, to obtain such an excellent bishop.
I have become acquainted with your greatly-desired name in God, which ye have 
acquired by the habit of righteousness, according to the faith and love in 
Christ Jesus our Saviour. Being the followers 
of the love of God towards man, and stirring up
yourselves by the blood of Christ, you have perfectly accomplished the work 
which was beseeming to you. For, on hearing that I came bound from Syria for the 
sake of Christ, our common hope, trusting through your prayers to be permitted 
to fight with beasts at Rome, that so by martyrdom I may indeed become the 
disciple of Him "who gave Himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to 
God,"
[ye hastened to see me
]. I have therefore received your whole multitude in the name of God, through 
Onesimus, a man of inexpressible love,
and who is your bishop, whom I pray you by Jesus Christ to love, and that you 
would all seek to be like him. Blessed be God, who has granted unto you, who are 
yourselves so excellent, to obtain such an excellent bishop.

Chapter II.-Congratulations and 
  Entreaties.
As to my fellow-servant Burrhus, your deacon in regard to God and blessed in 
all things,
I beg that he may continue longer, both for your honour and that of your bishop. 
And Crocus also, worthy both of God and you, whom I have received as the 
manifestation
of your love, hath in all things refreshed
me, as the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ shall also refresh
him; together with Onesimus, and Burrhus, and Euplus, and Fronto, by means of 
whom, I have, as to love, beheld all of you. May I always have joy of you, if 
indeed I be worthy of it. It is therefore befitting that you should in every way 
glorify Jesus Christ, who hath glorified you, that by a unanimous obedience "ye 
may be perfectly joined together in the same mind, and in the same judgment, and 
may all speak the same thing concerning the same thing,"
and that, being subject to the bishop and the presbytery, ye may in all respects 
be sanctified.
As to our fellow-servant Burrhus, your deacon in regard to God and blessed in 
all things, I pray that he may continue blameless for the honour of the Church, 
and of your most blessed bishop. Crocus also, worthy both of God and you, whom 
we have received as the manifestation
of your love to us, hath in all things refreshed
me, and "hath not been ashamed of my chain,"
as the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ will also refresh
him; together with Onesimus, and Burrhus, and Euplus, and Fronto, by means of 
whom I have, as to love, beheld all of you. May I always have joy of you, if 
indeed I be worthy of it. It is therefore befitting that you should in every way 
glorify Jesus Christ, who hath glorified you, that by a unanimous obedience "ye 
may be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment, and 
may all speak the same thing concerning the same thing,"
and that, being subject to the bishop and the presbytery, ye may in all respects 
be sanctified.

Chapter III.-Exhortations to 
  Unity.
I do not issue orders to you, as if I were some great person. For though I am 
bound for the name [of Christ], I am not yet perfect in Jesus Christ. For now I 
begin to be a disciple, and I speak to you as fellow-disciples with me. For it 
was needful for me to have been stirred up by you in faith, exhortation, 
patience, and long-suffering. But inasmuch as love suffers me not to be silent 
in regard to you, I have therefore taken
upon me first to exhort you that ye would all run together in accordance with 
the will of God. For even Jesus Christ, our inseparable life, is the 
[manifested] will of the Father; as also bishops, settled everywhere to the 
utmost bounds [of the earth], are so by the will of Jesus Christ.
I do not issue orders to you, as if I were some great person. For though I am 
bound for His name, I am not yet perfect in Jesus Christ. For now I begin to be 
a disciple, and I speak to you as my fellow-servants. For it was needful for me 
to have been admonished by you in faith, exhortation, patience, and 
long-suffering. But inasmuch as love suffers me not to be silent in regard to 
you, I have therefore taken
upon me first to exhort you that ye would run together in accordance with the 
will of God. For even Jesus Christ does all things according to the will of the 
Father, as He Himself declares in a certain place, "I do always those things 
that please Him."
Wherefore it behoves us also to live according to the will of God in Christ, and 
to imitate Him as Paul did. For, says he, "Be ye followers of me, even as I also 
am of Christ."


Chapter IV.-The Same 
  Continued.
Wherefore it is fitting that ye should run together in accordance with the 
will of your bishop, which thing also ye do. For your justly renowned 
presbytery, worthy of God, is fitted as exactly to the bishop as the strings are 
to the harp. Therefore in your concord and harmonious love, Jesus Christ is 
sung. And do ye, man by man, become a choir, that being harmonious in love, and 
taking up the song of God in unison, ye may with one voice sing to the Father 
through Jesus Christ, so that He may both hear you, and perceive by your works 
that ye are indeed the members of His Son. It is profitable, therefore, that you 
should live in an unblameable unity, that thus ye may always enjoy communion 
with God.
Wherefore it is fitting that ye also should run together in accordance with 
the will of the bishop who by God's appointment
rules over you. Which thing ye indeed of yourselves do, being instructed by the 
Spirit. For your justly-renowned presbytery, being worthy of God, is fitted as 
exactly to the bishop as the strings are to the harp. Thus, being joined 
together in concord and harmonious love, of which Jesus Christ is the Captain 
and Guardian, do ye, man by man, become but one choir; so that, agreeing 
together in concord, and obtaining
a perfect unity with God, ye may indeed be one in harmonious feeling with God 
the Father, and His beloved Son Jesus Christ our Lord. For, says He, "Grant unto 
them, Holy Father, that as I and Thou are one, they also may be one in 
us."
It is therefore profitable that you, being joined together with God in an 
unblameable unity, should be the followers of the example of Christ, of whom 
also ye are members.

Chapter V.-The Praise of 
  Unity.
For if I in this brief space of time, have enjoyed such fellowship with your 
bishop-I mean not of a mere human, but of a spiritual nature-how much more do I 
reckon you happy who are so joined to him as the Church is to Jesus Christ, and 
as Jesus Christ is to the Father, that so all things may agree in unity! Let no 
man deceive himself: if any one be not within the altar, he is deprived of the 
bread of God. For if the prayer of one or two possesses
such power, how much more that of the bishop and the whole Church! He, 
therefore, that does not assemble with the Church, has even
by this manifested his pride, and condemned himself. For it is written, "God 
resisteth the proud."
Let us be careful, then, not to set ourselves in opposition to the bishop, in 
order that we may be subject to God.
For if I, in this brief space of time, have enjoyed such fellowship with your 
bishop-I mean not of a mere human, but of a spiritual nature-how much more do I 
reckon you happy, who so depend
on him as the Church does on the Lord Jesus, and the Lord does on God and His 
Father, that so all things may agree in unity! Let no man deceive himself: if 
any one be not within the altar, he is deprived of the bread of God. For if the 
prayer of one or two possesses 
such power that Christ stands in the midst of them, how much more will the 
prayer of the bishop and of the whole Church, ascending up in harmony to God, 
prevail for the granting of all their petitions in Christ! He, therefore, that 
separates himself from such, and does not meet in the society where 
sacrifices
are offered, and with "the Church of the first-born whose names are written in 
heaven," is a wolf in sheep's clothing, 
while he presents a mild outward appearance. Do ye, beloved, be careful to be 
subject to the bishop, and the presbyters and the deacons. For he that is 
subject to these is obedient to Christ, who has appointed them; but he that is 
disobedient to these is disobedient to Christ Jesus. And "he that obeyeth 
not
the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him." For he that 
yields not obedience to his superiors is self-confident, quarrelsome, and proud. 
But" God," says [the Scripture] "resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the 
humble ; "
and, "The proud have greatly transgressed." The Lord also says to the priests, 
"He that heareth you, heareth Me; and he that heareth Me, heareth the Father 
that sent Me. He that despiseth you, despiseth Me; and he that despiseth Me, 
despiseth Him that sent Me."

Chapter VI.-Have Respect to the 
  Bishop as to Christ Himself.
Now the more any one sees the bishop keeping silence,
the more ought he to revere him. For we ought to receive every one whom the 
Master of the house sends to be over His household,
as we would do Him that sent him. It is manifest, therefore, that we should look 
upon the bishop even as we would upon the Lord Himself. And indeed Onesimus 
himself greatly commends your good order in God, that ye all live according to 
the truth, and that no sect
has any dwelling-place among you. Nor, indeed, do ye hearken to any one rather 
than to Jesus Christ speaking in truth.
The more, therefore, you see the bishop silent, the more do you reverence 
him. For we ought to receive every one whom the Master of the house sends to be 
over His household, 
as we would do Him that sent him. It is manifest, therefore, that we should look 
upon the bishop even as we would look upon the Lord Himself, standing, as he 
does, before the Lord. For "it behoves the man who looks carefully about him, 
and is active in his business, to stand before kings, and not to stand before 
slothful men." 
And indeed Onesimus himself greatly commends your good order in God, that ye all 
live according to the truth, and that no sect `has any dwelling-place among you. 
Nor indeed do ye hearken to any one rather than to Jesus Christ, the true 
Shepherd and Teacher. And ye are, as Paul wrote to you, "one body and one 
spirit, because ye have also been called in one hope of the faith.
Since also "there is one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of 
all, who is over all, and through all, and in all." 
Such, then, are ye, having been taught by such instructors, Paul the 
Christ-bearer, and Timothy the most faithful.

Chapter VII.-Beware of False 
  Teachers.
For some are in the habit of carrying about the name [of Jesus Christ] in 
wicked guile, while yet they practise things unworthy of God, whom ye must flee 
as ye would wild beasts. For they are ravening dogs, who bite secretly, against 
whom ye must be on your guard, inasmuch as they are men who can scarcely be 
cured. There is one Physician who is possessed both of flesh and spirit; both 
made and not made; God existing in flesh; true life in death; both of Mary and 
of God; first possible and then impossible,-
even Jesus Christ our Lord.
But some most worthless persons are in the habit of carrying about the name 
[of Jesus Christ] in wicked guile, while yet they practise things unworthy of 
God, and hold opinions contrary to the doctrine of Christ, to their own 
destruction, and that of those who give credit to them, whom you must avoid as 
ye would wild beasts. For "the righteous man who avoids them is saved for ever; 
but the destruction of the ungodly is sudden, and a subject of 
rejoicing."
For "they are dumb dogs, that cannot bark,"
raving mad, and biting secretly, against whom ye must be on your guard, since 
they labour under an incurable disease. But our Physician is the only true God, 
the unbegotten and unapproachable, the Lord of all, the Father and Begetter of 
the only-begotten Son. We have also as a Physician the Lord our God, Jesus the 
Christ, the only-begotten Son and Word, before time began,
but who afterwards became also man, of Mary the virgin. For "the Word was made 
flesh."
Being incorporeal, He was in the body; being impassible, He was in a passible 
body; being immortal, He was in a mortal body; being life, He became subject to 
corruption, that He might free our souls from death and corruption, and heal 
them, and might restore them to health, when they were diseased with ungodliness 
and wicked lusts.

Chapter VIII.-Renewed Praise of the 
  Ephesians.
Let not then any one deceive you, as indeed ye are not deceived, inasmuch as 
ye are wholly devoted to God. For since there is no strife raging among you 
which might distress you, ye are certainly living in accordance with God's will. 
I am far inferior to you, and require to be sanctified by your Church of 
Ephesus, so renowned throughout the world. They that are carnal cannot do those 
things which are spiritual, nor they that are spiritual the things which are 
carnal; even as faith cannot do the works of unbelief, nor unbelief the works of 
faith. But even those things which ye do according to the flesh are spiritual; 
for ye do all things in Jesus Christ.
Let not then any one deceive you, as indeed ye are not deceived; for ye are 
wholly devoted to God. For when there is no evil desire within you, which might 
defile and torment you, then do ye live in accordance with the will of God, and 
are [the servants] of Christ. Cast ye out that which defiles
you, who are of the 
most holy Church of the Ephesians, which is so famous and celebrated throughout 
the world. They that are carnal cannot do those things which are spiritual, nor 
they that are spiritual the things which are carnal; even as faith cannot do the 
works of unbelief, nor unbelief the works of faith. But ye, being full of the 
Holy Spirit, do nothing according to the flesh, but all things according to the 
Spirit. Ye are complete in Christ Jesus, "who is the Saviour of all men, 
specially of them that believe."


Chapter IX.-Ye Have Given No Heed to 
  False Teachers.
Nevertheless, I have heard of some who have passed on from this to you, 
having false doctrine, whom ye did not suffer to sow among you, but stopped your 
ears, that ye might not receive those things which were sown by them, as being 
stones
of the temple of the Father, prepared for the building of God the Father, and 
drawn up on high by the instrument of Jesus Christ, which is the cross,
making use of the Holy Spirit as a rope, while your faith was the means by which 
you ascended, and your love the way which led up to God. Ye, therefore, as well 
as all your fellow-travellers, are God-bearers, temple-bearers, Christ-bearers, 
bearers of holiness, adorned in all respects with the commandments of Jesus 
Christ, in whom also I exult that I have been thought worthy, by means of this 
Epistle, to converse and rejoice with you, because with respect to your 
Christian life
ye love nothing but God only.
Nevertheless, I have heard of some who have passed in among you, holding the 
wicked doctrine of the strange and evil spirit; to whom ye did not allow 
entrance to sow their tares, but stopped your ears that ye might not receive 
that error which was proclaimed by them, as being persuaded that that spirit 
which deceives the people does not speak the things of Christ, but his own, for 
he is a lying spirit. But the Holy Spirit does not speak His own things, but 
those of Christ, and that not from himself, but from the Lord; even as the Lord 
also announced to us the things that He received from the Father. For, says He, 
"the word which ye hear is not Mine, but the Father's, who sent Me."
And says He of the Holy Spirit, "He shall not speak of Himself, but whatsoever 
things He shall hear from Me."
And He says of Himself to the Father, "I have," says He, "glorified Thee upon 
the earth ; I have finished the work which, Thou gavest Me; I have manifested 
Thy name to men." And of the Holy Ghost, "He shall glorify Me, for He receives of Mine."
But the spirit of deceit preaches himself, and speaks his own things, for he 
seeks to please himself. He glorifies himself, for he is full of arrogance. He 
is lying, fraudulent, soothing, flattering, treacherous, rhapsodical, trifling, 
inharmonious, verbose, sordid, and timorous. From his power Jesus Christ will 
deliver you, who has founded you upon the rock, as being chosen stones, well 
fitted for the divine edifice of the Father, and who are raised up on high by 
Christ, who was crucified for you, making use of the Holy Spirit as a rope, and 
being borne up by faith, while exalted by love from earth to heaven, walking in 
company with those that are undefiled. For, says [the Scripture], "Blessed are 
the undefiled in the way, who walk in the law of the Lord."
Now the way is unerring, namely, Jesus Christ. For, says He, "I am the way and 
the life."
And this way leads to the Father. For "no man," says He, "cometh to the Father 
but by Me."
Blessed, then, are ye who are God-bearers, spirit-bearers, temple-bearers, 
bearers of holiness, adorned in all respects with the commandments of Jesus 
Christ, being "a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people,"
on whose account I rejoice exceedingly, and have had the privilege, by this 
Epistle, of conversing with "the saints which are at Ephesus, the faithful in 
Christ Jesus."
I rejoice, therefore, over you, that ye do not give heed to vanity, and love 
nothing according to the flesh, but according to God.

Chapter X.-Exhortations to Prayer, 
  Humility, Etc.
And pray ye without ceasing in behalf of other men. For there is in them hope 
of repentance that they may attain to God. See,
then, that they be instructed by your works, if in no other way. Be ye meek in 
response to their wrath, humble in opposition to their boasting: to their 
blasphemies return
your prayers; in contrast to their error, be ye stedfast
in the faith; and for their cruelty, manifest your gentleness. While we take 
care not to imitate their conduct, let us be found their brethren in all true 
kindness; and let us seek to be followers of the Lord (who ever more unjustly 
treated, more destitute, more condemned? ), that so no plant of the devil may be 
found in you, but ye may remain in all holiness and sobriety in Jesus Christ, 
both with respect to the flesh and spirit.
And pray ye without ceasing in behalf of other men; for there is hope of the 
repentance, that they may attain to God. For "cannot he that falls arise again, 
and he that goes astray return?"
Permit them, then, to be instructed by you. Be ye therefore the ministers of 
God, and the mouth of Christ. For thus saith the Lord, "If ye take forth the 
precious from the vile, ye shall be as my mouth."
Be ye humble in response to their wrath; oppose to their blasphemies your 
earnest prayers; while they go astray, stand ye stedfast in the faith. Conquer 
ye their harsh temper by gentleness, their passion by meekness. For "blessed are 
the meek ; "
and Moses was meek above all men;
and David was exceeding meek. 
Wherefore Paul exhorts as follows: "The servant of the Lord must not strive, but 
be gentle towards all men, apt to teach, patient, in meekness instructing those 
that oppose themselves."
Do not seek to avenge yourselves on those that injure you, for says [the 
Scripture], If I have returned evil to those who returned evil to me."
Let us make them brethren by our kindness. For say ye to those that hate you, Ye 
are our brethren, that the name of the Lord may be glorified. And let us imitate 
the Lord, "who, when He was reviled, reviled not again ; "
when He was crucified, He answered not; "when He suffered, He threatened not ; 
"but prayed for His enemies, "Father, forgive them; they know not what they 
do." 
If any one, the more he is injured, displays the more patience, blessed is he. 
If any one is defrauded, if any one is despised, for the name of the Lord, he 
truly is the servant of Christ. Take heed that no plant of the devil be found 
among you, for such a plant is bitter and salt. "Watch ye, and be ye 
sober," in Christ Jesus.

Chapter XI.-An Exhortation to Fear 
  God, Etc.
The last times are come upon us. Let us therefore be of a reverent spirit, 
and fear the long-suffering of God, that it tend not to our condemnation. For 
let us either stand in awe of the wrath to come, or show regard for the grace 
which is at present displayed-one of two things. Only [in one way or another] 
let us be found in Christ Jesus unto the true life. Apart from Him, let nothing 
attract you, for whom I bear about these bonds, these spiritual jewels, by which may I 
arise through your prayers, of which I entreat I may always be a partaker, that 
I may be found in the lot of the Christians of Ephesus, who have always been of 
the same mind with the apostles through the power of Jesus Christ.
The last times are come upon us. Let us therefore be of a reverent spirit, 
and fear the long-suffering of God, lest we despise the riches of His goodness 
and forbearance.
For let us either fear the wrath to come, or let us love the present joy in the 
life that now is; and let our present and true joy be only this, to be found in 
Christ Jesus, that we may truly live. Do not at any time desire so much as even 
to breathe apart from Him. For He is my hope; He is my boast; He is my 
never-failing riches, on whose account I bear about with me these bonds from 
Syria to Rome, these spiritual jewels, in which may I be perfected through your 
prayers, and become a partaker of the sufferings of Christ, and have fellowship 
with Him in His death, His resurrection from the dead, and His everlasting 
life.
May I attain to this, so that I may be found in the lot of the Christians of 
Ephesus, who have always had intercourse with the apostles by the power of Jesus 
Christ, with Paul, and John, and Timothy the most faithful.

Chapter XII.-Praise of the 
  Ephesians.
I know both who I am, and to whom I write. I am a condemned man, ye have been 
the objects of mercy; I am subject to danger, ye are established in safety. Ye 
are the persons through whom those pass that are cut off for the sake of God.
Ye are initiated into the 
mysteries of the Gospel with Paul, the holy, the martyred, the deservedly most 
happy, at whose feet may I be found, when I shall attain to God; who in all his Epistles makes 
mention of you in Christ Jesus.
I know both who I am, and to whom I write. I am the very insignificant 
Ignatius, who have my lot with
those who are exposed to danger and condemnation. But ye have been the objects 
of mercy, and are established in Christ. I am one delivered over [to death], but 
the least of all those that have been cut off for the sake of Christ, "from the 
blood of righteous Abel"
to the blood of Ignatius. Ye are initiated into the mysteries of the Gospel with 
Paul, the holy, the martyred, inasmuch as he was "a chosen vessel; "
at whose feet may I be found, and at the feet of the rest of the saints, when I 
shall attain to Jesus Christ, who is always mindful of you in His prayers.

Chapter XIII.-Exhortation to Meet 
  Together Frequently for the Worship of God.
Take heed, then, often to come together to give thanks to God, and show forth 
His praise. For when ye assemble frequently in the same place, the powers of 
Satan are destroyed, and the destruction at which he aims
is prevented by the unity of your faith. Nothing is more precious than peace, by 
which all war, both in heaven and earth,
is brought to an end.
Take heed, then, often to come together to give thanks to God, and show forth 
His praise. For when ye come frequently together in the same place, the powers 
of Satan are destroyed, and his "fiery darts" 
urging to sin fall back ineffectual. For your concord and harmonious faith prove 
his destruction, and the torment of his assistants. Nothing is better than that 
peace which is according to Christ, by which all war, both of aërial and 
terrestrial spirits, is brought to an end. "For we wrestle not against blood and 
flesh, but against principalities and powers, and against the rulers of the 
darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in heavenly places."


Chapter XIV.-Exhortations to Faith 
  and Love.
None of these things is hid from you, if ye perfectly possess that faith and 
love towards Christ Jesus 
which are the beginning and the end of life. For the beginning is faith, and the 
end is love.
Now these two, being inseparably connected together,
are of God, while all other things which are requisite for a holy life follow 
after them. No man [truly] making a profession of faith sinneth;
nor does he that possesses love hate any one. The tree is made manifest by its 
fruit;
so those that profess themselves to be Christians shall be recognised by their 
conduct. For there is not now a demand for mere profession,
but that a man be found continuing in the power of faith to the end.
Wherefore none of the devices of the devil shall be hidden from you, if, like 
Paul, ye perfectly possess that faith and love towards Christ
which are the beginning and the end of life. The beginning of life is faith, and 
the end is love. And these two being inseparably connected together, do perfect 
the man of God; while all other things which are requisite to a holy life follow 
after them. No man making a profession of faith ought to sin, nor one possessed 
of love to hate his brother. For He that said, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy 
God,"
said also, "and thy neighbour as thyself." 
Those that profess themselves to be Christ's are known not only by what they 
say, but by what they practise. "For the tree is known by its fruit."


Chapter XV.-Exhortation to Confess 
  Christ by Silence as Well as Speech.
It is better for a man to be silent and be [a Christian], than to talk and 
not to be one. It is good to teach, if he who speaks also acts. There is then 
one Teacher, who spake and it was done; while even those things which He did in 
silence are worthy of the Father. He who possesses the word of Jesus, is truly 
able to hear even His very silence, that he may be perfect, and may both act as 
he speaks, and be recognised by his silence. There is nothing which is hid from 
God, but our very secrets are near to Him. Let us therefore do all things as 
those who have Him dwelling in us, that we may be His temples,
and He may be in us as our God, which indeed He is, and will manifest Himself 
before our faces. Wherefore we justly love Him.
It is better for a man to be silent and be [a Christian], than to talk and 
not to be one. "The kingdom of God is not in word, but in power."
Men "believe with the heart, and confess with the mouth," the one "unto 
righteousness," the other "unto salvation."
It is good to teach, if he who speaks also acts. For he who shall both "do and 
teach, the same shall be great in the kingdom."
Our Lord and God, Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God, first did and then 
taught, as Luke testifies, "whose praise is in the Gospel through all the 
Churches."
There is nothing which is hid from the Lord, but our very secrets are near to 
Him. Let us therefore do all things as those who have Him dwelling in us, that 
we may be His temples,
and He may be in us as God. Let Christ speak in us, even as He did in Paul. Let 
the Holy Spirit teach us to speak the things of Christ in like manner as He 
did.

Chapter XVI.-The Fate of False 
  Teachers.
Do not err, my brethren.
Those that corrupt families shall not inherit the kingdom of God.
If, then, those who do this as respects the flesh have suffered death, how much 
more shall this be the case with any one who corrupts by wicked doctrine the 
faith of God, for which Jesus Christ was crucified! Such an one becoming defiled 
[in this way], shall go away into everlasting fire, and so shall every one that 
hearkens unto him.
Do not err, my brethren.
Those that corrupt families shall not inherit the kingdom of God.
And if those that corrupt mere human families are condemned to death, how much 
more shall those suffer everlasting punishment who endeavour to corrupt the 
Church of Christ, for which the Lord Jesus, the only-begotten Son of God, 
endured the cross, and submitted to death! Whosoever, "being waxen fat,"
and "become gross," sets at nought His doctrine, shall go into hell. In like 
manner, every one that has received from God the power of distinguishing, and 
yet follows an unskilful shepherd, and receives a false opinion for the truth, 
shall be punished. "What communion hath light with darkness? or Christ with 
Belial? Or what portion hath he that believeth with an infidel? or the temple of 
God with idols? "
And in like manner say I, what communion hath truth with falsehood? or 
righteousness with unrighteousness? or true doctrine with that which is 
false?

Chapter XVII.-Beware of False 
  Doctrines.
For this end did the Lord suffer the ointment to be poured upon His 
head,
that He might breathe immortality into His Church. Be not ye anointed with the 
bad odour of the doctrine of the prince of this world; let him not lead you away 
captive from the life which is set before you. And why are we not all prudent, 
since we have received the knowledge of God, which is Jesus Christ? Why do we 
foolishly perish, not recognising the gift which the Lord has of a truth sent to 
us?
For this end did the Lord suffer the ointment to be poured upon His 
head,
that His Church might breathe forth immortality. For saith [the Scripture], "Thy 
name is as ointment poured forth; therefore have the virgins loved Thee; they 
have drawn Thee; at the odour of Thine ointments we will run after Thee."
Let no one be anointed with the bad odour of the doctrine of [the prince of] 
this world; let not the holy Church of God be led captive by his subtlety, as 
was the first woman.
Why do we not, as gifted with reason, act wisely? When we had received from 
Christ, and had grafted in us the faculty of judging concerning God, why do we 
fall headlong into ignorance? and why, through a careless neglect of 
acknowledging the gift which we have received, do we foolishly perish?

Chapter XVIII.-The Glory of the 
  Cross.
Let my spirit be counted as nothing
for the sake of the cross, which is a stumbling-block 
to those that do not believe, but to us salvation and life eternal. "Where is 
the wise man? where the disputer? "
Where is the boasting of those who are styled prudent? For our God, Jesus 
Christ, was, according to the appointment
of God, conceived in the womb by Mary, of the seed of David, but by the Holy 
Ghost. He was born and baptized, that by His passion He might purify the 
water.
The cross of Christ is indeed a stumbling-block to those that do not believe, 
but to the believing it is salvation and life eternal. "Where is the wise man? 
where the disputer? "
Where is the boasting of those who are called mighty? For the Son of God, who 
was begotten before time began
, and established all things according to the will of the Father, He was 
conceived in the womb of Mary, according to the appointment of God, of the seed 
of David, and by the Holy Ghost. For says [the Scripture], "Behold, a virgin 
shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and He shall be called 
Immanuel."
He was born and was baptized by John, that He might ratify the institution 
committed to that prophet.

Chapter XIX.-Three Celebrated 
  Mysteries.
Now the virginity of Mary was hidden from the prince of this world, as was 
also her offspring, and the death of the Lord; three mysteries of renown,
which were wrought in silence by 
God. How, then, was He manifested to the world?
A star shone forth in heaven above all the other stars, the light of which was 
inexpressible, while its novelty struck men with astonishment. And all the rest 
of the stars, with the sun and moon, formed a chorus to this star, and its light 
was exceedingly great above them all. And there was agitation felt as to whence 
this new spectacle came, so unlike to everything else [in the heavens]. Hence 
every kind of magic was destroyed, and every bond of wickedness disappeared; 
ignorance was removed, and the old kingdom abolished, God Himself being 
manifested in human form for the renewal of eternal life. And now that took a 
beginning which had been prepared by God. Henceforth all things were in a state 
of tumult, because He meditated the abolition of death.
Now the virginity of Mary was hidden from the prince of this world, as was 
also her offspring, and the death of the Lord; three mysteries of renown,
which were wrought in silence, but have been revealed to us. A star shone forth 
in heaven above all that were before it, and its light was inexpressible, while 
its novelty struck men with astonishment. And all the rest of the stars, with 
the sun and moon, formed a chorus to this star. It far exceeded them all in 
brightness, and agitation was felt as to whence this new spectacle [proceeded]. 
Hence worldly wisdom became folly; conjuration was seen to be mere trifling; and 
magic became utterly ridiculous. Every law
of wickedness vanished away; the darkness of ignorance was dispersed; and 
tyrannical authority was destroyed, God being manifested as a man, and man 
displaying power as God. But neither was the former a mere imagination,
nor did the second imply a bare humanity;
but the one was absolutely true,
and the other an economical arrangement.
Now that received a beginning which was perfected by God.
Henceforth all things were in a state of tumult, because He meditated the 
abolition of death.
Chapter XX.-Promise of Another 
Letter.
Chapter XX.-Exhortations to 
Stedfastness and Unity.
If Jesus Christ shall graciously permit me through your prayers, and if it be 
His will, I shall, in a second little work which I will write to you, make 
further manifest to you [the nature of] the dispensation of which I have begun 
[to treat], with respect to the new man, Jesus Christ, in His faith and in His 
love, in His suffering and in His resurrection. Especially [will I do 
this
] if the Lord make known to me that ye come together man by man in common 
through grace, individually,
in one faith, and in Jesus Christ, who was of the seed of David according to the 
flesh, being both the Son of man and the Son of God, so that ye obey the bishop 
and the presbytery with an undivided mind, breaking one and the same bread, 
which is the medicine of immortality, and the antidote to prevent us from dying, 
but [which causes] that we should live for ever in Jesus Christ.
Stand fast, brethren, in the faith of Jesus Christ, and in His love, in His 
passion, and in His resurrection. Do ye all come together in common, and 
individually,
through grace, in one faith of God the Father, and of Jesus Christ His 
only-begotten Son, and "the first-born of every creature,"
but of the seed of David according to the flesh, being under the guidance of the 
Comforter, in obedience to the bishop and the presbytery with an undivided mind, 
breaking one and the same bread, which is the medicine of immortality, and the 
antidote which prevents us from dying, but a cleansing remedy driving away evil, 
[which causes] that we should live in God through Jesus Christ.

Chapter 
XXI.-Conclusion.
My soul be for yours and theirs
whom, for the honour of God, ye have sent to Smyrna; whence also I write to you, 
giving thanks unto the Lord, and loving Polycarp even as I do you. Remember me, 
as Jesus Christ also remembered you. Pray ye for the Church which is in Syria, 
whence I am led bound to Rome, being the last of the faithful who are there, 
even as I have been thought worthy to be chosen
to show forth the honour of God. Farewell in God the Father, and in Jesus 
Christ, our common hope.
My soul be for yours and theirs
whom, for the honour of God, ye have sent to Smyrna; whence also I write to you, 
giving thanks to the Lord, and loving Polycarp even as I do you. Remember me, as 
Jesus Christ also remembers you, who is blessed for evermore. Pray ye for the 
Church of Antioch which is in Syria, whence I am led bound to Rome, being the 
last of the faithful that are there, who
yet have been thought worthy to carry these chains to the honour of God. Fare ye 
well in God the Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ, our common hope, and in the 
Holy Ghost. Fare ye well. Amen. Grace [be with you].


