
Ignatius to the Romans












The Epistle of Ignatius 
to the Romans 
Shorter and Longer 
Versions
------------

Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to the Church which has 
  obtained mercy, through the majesty of the Most High Father, and Jesus Christ, 
  His only-begotten Son; the Church which is beloved and enlightened by the will 
  of Him that willeth all things which are according to the love of Jesus Christ 
  our God, which also presides in the place of the report of the Romans, worthy 
  of God, worthy of honour, worthy of the highest happiness, worthy of praise, 
  worthy of obtaining her every desire, worthy of being deemed holy,
  and which presides over love, is named from Christ, and from the Father, which 
  I also salute in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father: to those who 
  are united, both according to the flesh and spirit, to every one of His 
  commandments; who are filled inseparably with the grace of God, and are 
  purified from every strange taint, [I wish] abundance of happiness 
  unblameably, in Jesus Christ our God.
Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to the Church which has 
  obtained mercy, through the majesty of the Most High God the Father, and of 
  Jesus Christ, His only-begotten Son; the Church which is sanctified and 
  enlightened by the will of God, who formed all things that are according to 
  the faith and love of Jesus Christ, our God and Saviour; the Church which 
  presides in the place of the region of the Romans, and which is worthy of God, 
  worthy of honour, worthy of the highest happiness, worthy of praise, worthy of 
  credit,
  worthy of being deemed holy,
  and which presides over love, is named from Christ, and from the Father, and 
  is possessed of the Spirit, which I also salute in the name of Almighty God, 
  and of Jesus Christ His Son: to those who are united, both according to the 
  flesh and spirit, to every one of His commandments, who are filled inseparably 
  with all the grace of God, and are purified from every strange taint, [I wish] 
  abundance of happiness unblameably, in God, even the Father, and our Lord 
  Jesus Christ.
Chapter I.-As a Prisoner, I Hope to 
  See You.
Through prayer
to God I have obtained the privilege of seeing your most worthy faces,
and have even
been granted more than I requested; for I hope as a prisoner in Christ Jesus to 
salute you, if indeed it be the will of God that I be thought worthy of 
attaining unto the end. For the beginning has been well ordered, if I may obtain 
grace to cling to
my lot without hindrance unto the end. For I am afraid of your love,
lest it should do me an injury. For it is easy for you to accomplish what you 
please; but it is difficult for me to attain to God, if ye spare me.
Through prayer to God I have obtained the privilege of seeing your most 
worthy faces, 
even as I earnestly begged might be granted me; for as a prisoner in Christ 
Jesus I hope to salute you, if indeed it be the will [of God] that I be thought 
worthy of attaining unto the end. For the beginning has been well ordered, if I 
may obtain grace to cling to
my lot without hindrance unto the end. For I am afraid of your love,
lest it should do me an injury. For it is easy for you to accomplish what you 
please; but it is difficult for me to attain to God, if ye do not spare 
me, under the pretence of carnal affection.

Chapter II.-Do Not Save Me from 
  Martyrdom.
For it is not my desire to act towards you as a man-pleaser,
but as pleasing God, even as also ye please Him. For neither shall I ever have 
such [another] opportunity of attaining to God; nor will ye, if ye shall now be 
silent, ever be entitled to
the honour of a better work. For if ye are silent concerning me, I shall become 
God's; but if you show your love to my flesh, I shall again have to run my race. 
Pray, then, do not seek to confer any greater favour upon me than that I be 
sacrificed to God while the altar is still prepared; that, being gathered 
together in love, ye may sing praise to the Father, through Christ Jesus, that 
God has deemed me, the bishop of Syria, worthy to be sent for 
from the east unto the west. It is good to set from the world unto God, that I 
may rise again to Him.
For it is not my desire that ye should please men, but God, even as also ye 
do please Him. For neither shall I ever hereafter have such an opportunity of 
attaining to God; nor will ye, if ye shall now be silent, ever be entitled 
to the honour of a better work. For if ye are silent concerning me, I shall become 
God's; but if ye show your love to my flesh, I shall again have to run my race. 
Pray, then, do not seek to confer any greater favour upon me than that I be 
sacrificed to God, while the altar is still prepared; that, being gathered 
together in love, ye may sing praise to the Father, through Christ Jesus, that 
God has deemed me, the bishop of Syria, worthy to be sent for 
from the east unto the west, and to become a martyr
in behalf of His own precious
sufferings, so as to pass from the world to God, that I may rise again unto 
Him.

Chapter III.-Pray Rather that I May 
  Attain to Martyrdom.
Ye have never envied any one; ye have taught others. Now I desire that those 
things may be confirmed [by your conduct], which in your instructions ye enjoin 
[on others]. Only request in my behalf both inward and outward strength, that I 
may not only speak, but [truly] will; and that I may not merely be called a 
Christian, but really be found to be one. For if I be truly found [a Christian], 
I may also be called one, and be then deemed faithful, when I shall no longer 
appear to the world. Nothing visible is eternal.
"For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen 
are eternal."
For our God, Jesus Christ, now that He is with
the Father, is all the more revealed [in His glory]. Christianity is not a 
thing of silence only, but also of [manifest] greatness.
Ye have never envied any one; ye have taught others. Now I desire that those 
things may be confirmed [by your conduct], which in your instructions ye enjoin 
[on others]. Only request in my behalf both inward and outward strength, that I 
may not only speak, but [truly] will, so that I may not merely be called a 
Christian, but really found to be one. For if I be truly found [a Christian], I 
may also be called one, and be then deemed faithful, when I shall no longer 
appear to the world. Nothing visible is eternal. "For the things which are seen 
are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal.
The Christian is not the result of persuasion, but of power.
When he is hated by the world, he is beloved of God. For says [the Scripture], 
"If ye were of this world, the world would love its own; but now ye are not of 
the world, but I have chosen you out of it: continue in fellowship with me."


Chapter IV.-Allow Me to Fall a Prey 
  to the Wild Beasts.
I write to the Churches, and impress on them all, that I shall willingly die 
for God, unless ye hinder me. I beseech of you not to show an unseasonable 
good-will towards me. Suffer me to become food for the wild beasts, through 
whose instrumentality it will be granted me to attain to God. I am the wheat of 
God, and let me be ground by the teeth of the wild beasts, that I may be found 
the pure bread of Christ. Rather entice the wild beasts, that they may become my 
tomb, and may leave nothing of my body; so that when I have fallen asleep [in 
death], I may be no trouble to any one. Then shall I truly be a disciple of 
Christ, when the world shall not see so much as my body. Entreat Christ for me, 
that by these instruments I may be found a sacrifice [to God]. I do not, as Peter and Paul, issue 
commandments unto you. They were apostles; I am but a condemned man: they were 
free, while I am, even until now, a servant. But when I suffer, I shall be the 
freed-man of Jesus, and shall rise again emancipated in Him. And now, being a 
prisoner, I learn not to desire anything worldly or vain.
I write to all the Churches, and impress on them all, that I shall willingly 
die for God, unless ye hinder me. I beseech of you not to show an unseasonable 
good-will towards me. Suffer me to become food for the wild beasts, through 
whose instrumentality it will be granted me to attain to God. I am the wheat of 
God, and am ground by the teeth of the wild beasts, that I may be found the pure 
bread of God. Rather entice the wild beasts, that they may become my tomb, and 
may leave nothing of my body; so that when I have fallen asleep [in death], I 
may not be found troublesome to any one. Then shall I be a true disciple of 
Jesus Christ, when the world shall not see so much as my body. Entreat the Lord 
for me, that by these instruments
I may be found a sacrifice to God. I do not, as Peter and Paul, issue 
commandments unto you. They were apostles of Jesus Christ, but I am the very 
least [of believers]: they were free,
as the servants of God; while I am, even until now, a servant. But when I 
suffer, I shall be the freed-man of Jesus Christ, and shall rise again 
emancipated in Him. And now, being in bonds for Him, I learn not to desire 
anything worldly or vain.

Chapter V.-I Desire to 
Die.
From Syria even unto Rome I fight with beasts, 
both by land and sea, both by night and day, being bound to ten leopards, I mean 
a band of soldiers, who, even when they receive benefits,
show themselves all the worse. But I am the more instructed by their injuries 
[to act as a disciple of Christ]; "yet am I not thereby justified."
May I enjoy the wild beasts that are prepared for me; and I pray they may be 
found eager to rush upon me, which also I will entice to devour me speedily, and 
not deal with me as with some, whom, out of fear, they have not touched. But if 
they be unwilling to assail me, I will compel them to do so. Pardon me [in 
this]: I know what is for my benefit. Now I begin to be a disciple. And let no 
one, of things visible or invisible, envy
me that I should attain to Jesus Christ. Let fire and the cross; let the crowds 
of wild beasts; let tearings,
breakings, and dislocations of bones; let cutting off of members; let 
shatterings of the whole body; and let all the dreadful
torments of the devil come upon me: only let me attain to Jesus Christ.
From Syria even unto Rome I fight with beasts,
both by land and sea, both by night and day, being bound to ten leopards, I mean 
a band of soldiers, who, even when they receive benefits,
show themselves all the worse. But I am the more instructed by their injuries 
[to act as a disciple of Christ]; "yet am I not thereby justified."
May I enjoy the wild beasts that are prepared for me; and I pray that they may 
be found eager to rush upon me, which also I will entice to devour me speedily, 
and not deal with me as with some, whom, out of fear, they have not touched. But 
if they be unwilling to assail me, I will compel them to do so. Pardon me [in 
this] I know what is for my benefit. Now I begin to be a disciple, and 
have no desire after anything visible or invisible, that I may attain to Jesus 
Christ. Let fire and the cross; let the crowds of wild beasts; let breakings, 
tearings, and separations of bones; let cutting off of members; let bruising to 
pieces of the whole body; and let the very torment of the devil come upon me: 
only let me attain to Jesus Christ.

Chapter VI.-By Death I Shall Attain 
  True Life.
All the pleasures of the world, and all the kingdoms of this earth,
shall profit me nothing. It is better for me to die in behalf of
Jesus Christ, than to reign over all the ends of the earth. "For what shall a 
man be profited, if he gain the whole world, but lose his own soul? "
Him I seek, who died for us: Him I desire, who rose again for our sake. This is 
the gain which is laid up for me. Pardon me, brethren: do not hinder me from 
living, do not wish to keep me in a state of death; 
and while I desire to belong to God, do not ye give me over to the world. Suffer 
me to obtain pure light: when I have gone thither, I shall indeed be a man of 
God. Permit me to be an imitator of the passion of my God. If any one has Him 
within himself, let him consider what I desire, and let him have sympathy with 
me, as knowing how I am straitened.
All the ends of the world, and all the kingdoms of this earth,
shall profit me nothing. It is better for me to die for the sake of Jesus 
Christ, than to reign over all the ends of the earth. "For what is a man 
profited, if he gain the whole world, but lose his own soul? "I long after the 
Lord, the Son of the true God and Father, even Jesus Christ. Him I seek, who 
died for us and rose again. Pardon me, brethren: do not hinder me in attaining 
to life; for Jesus is the life of believers. Do not wish to keep me in a state 
of death, for life without Christ is death. While I desire to belong to God, do not ye 
give me over to the world. Suffer me to obtain pure light: when I have gone 
thither, I shall indeed be a man of God. Permit me to be an imitator of the 
passion of Christ, my God. If any one has Him within himself, let him consider 
what I desire, and let him have sympathy with me, as knowing how I am 
straitened.

Chapter VII.-Reason of Desiring to 
  Die.
The prince of this world would fain carry me away, and corrupt my disposition 
towards God. Let none of you, therefore, who are [in Rome] help him; rather be 
ye on my side, that is, on the side of God. Do not speak of Jesus Christ, and 
yet set your desires on the world. Let not envy find a dwelling-place among you; 
nor even should I, when present with you, exhort you to it, be ye persuaded to 
listen to me, but rather give credit to those things which I now write to you. 
For though I am alive while I write to you, yet I am eager to die. My 
love has been crucified, and there is no fire in me desiring to be fed;
but there is within me a water that liveth and speaketh,
saying to me inwardly, Come to the Father. I have no delight in corruptible 
food, nor in the pleasures of this life. I desire the bread of God, the heavenly 
bread, the bread of life, which is the flesh of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, 
who became afterwards of the seed of David and Abraham; and I desire the drink 
of God, namely His blood, which is incorruptible love and eternal life.
The prince of this world would fain carry me away, and corrupt my disposition 
towards God. Let none of you, therefore, who are [in Rome] help him; rather be 
ye on my side, that is, on the side of God. Do not speak of Jesus Christ, and 
yet prefer this world to Him. Let not envy find a dwelling-place among you; nor 
even should I, when present with you, exhort you to it, be ye persuaded, but 
rather give credit to those things which I now write to you. For though I am 
alive while I write to you, yet I am eager to die for the sake of Christ. My 
love has been crucified, and there is no fire in me that loves anything; but there is 
living water springing up in me, and which says to me inwardly, Come to the Father. I have no delight in 
corruptible food, nor in the pleasures of this life. I desire the bread of God, 
the heavenly bread, the bread of life, which is the flesh of Jesus Christ, the 
Son of God, who became afterwards of the seed of David and Abraham; and I desire 
the drink, namely His blood, which is incorruptible love and eternal life.

Chapter VIII.-Be Ye Favourable to 
  Me.
I no longer wish to live after the manner of men, and my desire shall be 
fulfilled if ye consent. Be ye willing, then, that ye also may have your desires 
fulfilled. I entreat you in this brief letter; do ye give credit to me. Jesus 
Christ will reveal these things to you, [so that ye shall know] that I speak 
truly. He is the mouth altogether free from falsehood, by which the Father has truly 
spoken. Pray ye for me, that I may attain [the object of my desire]. I have not 
written to you according to the flesh, but according to the will of God. If I 
shall suffer, ye have wished [well] to me; but if I am rejected, ye have hated 
me.
I no longer wish to live after the manner of men, and my desire shall be 
fulfilled if ye consent. "I am crucified with Christ: nevertheless I live; yet 
no longer I, since Christ liveth in me."
I entreat you in this brief letter: do not refuse me; believe me that I love 
Jesus, who was delivered [to death] for my sake. "What shall I render to the 
Lord for all His benefits towards me? "
Now God, even the Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ, shall reveal these things 
to you, [so that ye shall know] that I speak truly. And do ye pray along with 
me, that I may attain my aim in the Holy Spirit. I have not written to you 
according to the flesh, but according to the will of God. If I shall suffer, ye 
have loved me; but if I am rejected, ye have hated me.

Chapter IX.-Pray for the Church in 
  Syria.
Remember in your prayers the Church in Syria, which now has God for its 
shepherd, instead of me. Jesus Christ alone will oversee it, and your love [will 
also regard it]. But as for me, I am ashamed to be counted one of them; for 
indeed I am not worthy, as being the very last of them, and one born out of due 
time.
But I have obtained mercy to be somebody, if I shall attain to God. My spirit 
salutes you, and the love of the Churches that have received me in the name of 
Jesus Christ, and not as a mere passer-by. For even those Churches which were 
not near to me in the way, I mean according to the flesh,
have gone before me,
city by city, [to meet me.]
Remember in your prayers the Church which is in Syria, which, instead of me, 
has now for its shepherd the Lord, who says, "I am the good Shepherd." And He 
alone will oversee it, as well as your love towards Him. But as for me, I am 
ashamed to be counted one of them; for I am not worthy, as being the very last 
of them, and one born out of due time. But I have obtained mercy to be somebody, 
if I shall attain to God. My spirit salutes you, and the love of the Churches 
which have received me in the name of Jesus Christ, and not as a mere passerby. 
For even those Churches which were not near to me in the way, have brought me 
forward, city by city.

Chapter X.-Conclusion.
Now I write these things to you from Smyrna by the Ephesians, who are 
deservedly most happy. There is also with me, along with many others, Crocus, 
one dearly beloved by me.
As to those who have gone before me from Syria to Rome for the glory of God, I 
believe that you are acquainted with them; to whom, [then, ] do ye make known 
that I am at hand. For they are all worthy, both of God and of you; and it is 
becoming that you should refresh them in all things. I have written these things 
unto you, on the day before the ninth of the Kalends of September (that
is, on the twenty-third day of August). Fare ye well to the end, in the patience 
of Jesus Christ. Amen.
Now I write these things to you from Smyrna by the Ephesians, who are 
deservedly most happy. There is also with me, along with many others, Crocus, 
one dearly beloved by me.
As to those who have gone before me from Syria to Rome for the glory of God, I 
believe that you are acquainted with them; to whom, [then, ] do ye make known 
that I am at hand. For they are all worthy, both of God and of you; and it is 
becoming that you should refresh them in all things. I have written these things 
unto you on the day before the ninth of the Kalends of September. Fare ye well 
to the end, in the patience of Jesus Christ.

