
Ignatius to the Romans











THE EPISTLE OF IGNATIUS TO THE ROMANS SHORTER VERSION 
Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to the Church which has obtained 
mercy, through the majesty of the Mast High Father, and Jesus Christ, His 
only-begotten Son; the Church which is beloved and enlightened by the will of 
Him that willeth all things which are according to the love of Jesus Christ our 
God, which also presides in the place of the report of the Romans, worthy of 
God, worthy of honour, worthy of the highest happiness, worthy of praise, worthy 
of obtaining her every desire, worthy of being deemed holy, and which presides 
over love, is named from Christ, and from the Father, which I also salute in the 
name of Jesus Christ, the San of the Father: to those who are united, both 
according ta the flesh and spirit, to every one of His commandments; who are 
filled inseparably with the grace of God, and are purified from every strange 
taint, [I wish] abundance of happiness unblameably, in Jesus Christ our God. 
CHAPTER I.--AS A PRISONER, I HOPE TO SEE YOU. 
THROUGH prayer to God I have obtained the privilege of seeing your most 
worthy faces, and have even been granted more than I requested; for I hope as a 
prisoner in Christ Jesus to salute you, if indeed it be the will of God that I 
be thought worthy of attaining unto the end. For the beginning has been well 
ordered, if I may obtain grace to cling to my lot without hindrance unto the 
end. For I am afraid of your love, lest it should do me an injury. For it is 
easy for you to accomplish what you please; but it is difficult for me to attain 
to God, if ye spare me. But it is difficult for me to attain to God, if ye do 
not spare me, under the pretence of carnal affection. 
CHAPTER II.--DO NOT SAVE ME FROM MARTYRDOM. 
For it is not my desire to act towards you as a man-pleaser, but as pleasing 
God, even as also ye please Him. For neither shall I ever have such [another] 
opportunity of attaining to God; nor will ye, if ye shall now be silent, ever be 
entitled to the honour of a better work. For if ye are silent concerning me, I 
shall become God's; but if you show your love to my flesh, I shall again have to 
run my race. Pray, then, do not seek to confer any greater favour upon me than 
that I be sacrificed to God while the altar is still prepared; that, being 
gathered together in love, ye may sing praise to the Father, through Christ 
Jesus, that God has deemed me, the bishop of Syria, worthy to be sent for from 
the east unto the west. It is good to set from the world unto God, that I may 
rise again to Him. 
CHAPTER III.--PRAY RATHER THAT I MAY ATTAIN' TO MARTYRDOM. 
Ye have never envied anyone; ye have taught others. Now I desire that those 
things may be confirmed [by your conduct], which in your instructions ye enjoin 
[on others]. Only request in my behalf both inward and outward strength, that I 
may not only speak, but [truly] will, so that I may not merely be called a 
Christian, but really found to be one. For if I be truly found [a Christian], I 
may also be called one, and be then deemed faithful, when I shall no longer 
appear to the world. Nothing visible is eternal. "For the things which are seen 
are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. The Christian is 
not the result of persuasion, but of power. When he is hated by the world, he is 
beloved of God. For says [the Scripture], "If ye were of this world, the world 
would love its own; but now ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out 
of it: continue in fellowship with me." 
CHAPTER IV.--ALLOW ME TO FALL A PREY TO THE WILD BEASTS. 
I write to all the Churches, and impress on them all, that I shall willingly 
die for God, unless ye hinder me. I beseech of you not to show an unseasonable 
goodwill towards me. Suffer me to become food for the wild beasts, through whose 
instrumentality it will be granted me to attain to God. I am the wheat of God, 
and am ground by the teeth of the wild beasts, that I may be found the pure 
bread of God. Rather entice the wild beasts, that they may become my tomb, and 
may leave nothing of my body; so that when I have fallen asleep [in death], I 
may not be found troublesome to any one. Then shall I be a true disciple of 
Jesus Christ, when the world shall not see so much as my body. Entreat the Lord 
for me, that by these instruments I may be found a sacrifice to God. I do not, 
as Peter and Paul, issue commandments unto you. They were apostles of Jesus 
Christ, but I am the very least [of believers]: they were free, as the servants 
of God; while I am, even until now, a servant. But when I suffer, I shall be the 
freedman of Jesus Christ, and shall rise again emancipated in Him. And now, 
being in bonds for Him, I learn not to desire anything worldly or vain. 
CHAPTER V.--I DESIRE TO DIE. 
From Syria even unto Rome I fight with beasts, both by land and sea, both by 
night and day, being bound to ten leopards, I mean a band of soldiers, who, even 
when they receive benefits, show themselves all the worse. But I am the more 
instructed by their injuries [to act as a disciple of Christ]; "yet am I not 
thereby justified." May I enjoy the wild beasts that are prepared for me; and I 
pray that they may be found eager to rush upon me, which also I will entice to 
devour me speedily, and not deal with me as with some, whom, out of fear, they 
have not touched. But if they be unwilling to assail me, I will compel them to 
do so. Pardon me [in this] I know what is for my benefit. Now I begin to be a 
disciple. And let no one, of things visible or invisible, envy me that I should 
attain to Jesus Christ. Let fire and the cross; let the crowds of wild beasts; 
let tearings, breakings, and dislocations of bones; let cutting off of members; 
let shatterings of the whole body; and let all the dreadful torments of the 
devil come upon me: only let me attain to Jesus Christ. 
CHAPTER VI.--BY DEATH I SHALL ATTAIN TRUE LIFE. 
All the pleasures of the world, and all the kingdoms of this earth, shall 
profit me nothing. It is better for me to die in behalf of Jesus Christ, than to 
reign over all the ends of the earth. "For what shall a man be profited, if he 
gain the whole world, but lose his own soul?'' Him I seek, who died for us: Him 
I desire, who rose again for our sake. This is the gain which is laid up for me. 
Pardon me, brethren: do not hinder me from living, do not wish to keep me in a 
state of death; and while I desire to belong to God, do not ye give me over to 
the world. Suffer me to obtain pure light: when I have gone thither, I shall 
indeed be a man of God. Permit me to be an imitator of the passion of my God. If 
any one has Him within himself, let him consider what I desire, and let him have 
sympathy with me, as knowing how I am straitened. 
CHAPTER VII.--REASON OF DESIRING TO DIE. 
The prince of this world would fain carry me away, and corrupt my disposition 
towards God. Let none of you, therefore, who are [in Rome] help him; rather be 
ye on my side, that is, on the side of God. Do not speak of Jesus Christ, and 
yet set your desires on the world. Let not envy find a dwelling-place among you; 
nor even should I, when present with you, exhort you to it, be ye persuaded to 
listen to me, but rather give credit to those things which I now write to you. 
For though I am alive while I write to you, yet I am eager to die. My love has 
been crucified, and there is no fire in me desiring to be fed; but there is 
within me a water that liveth and speaketh, saying to me inwardly, Come to the 
Father. I have no delight in corruptible food, nor in the pleasures of this 
life. I desire the bread of God, the heavenly bread, the bread of life, which is 
the flesh of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who became afterwards of the seed of 
David and Abraham; and I desire the drink of God, namely His blood, which is 
incorruptible love and eternal life. 
CHAPTER VIII.--BE YE FAVOURABLE TO ME. 
I no longer wish to live after the manner of men, and my desire shall be 
fulfilled if ye consent. Be ye willing, then, that ye also may have your desires 
fulfilled. I entreat you in this brief letter; do ye give credit to me. Jesus 
Christ will reveal these things to you, [so that ye shall know] that I speak 
truly. He is the mouth altogether free from falsehood, by which the Father has 
truly spoken. Pray ye for me, that I may attain [the object of my desire]. I 
have not written to you according to the flesh, but according to the will of 
God. If I shall suffer, ye have wished [well] to me; but if I am rejected, ye 
have hated me. 
CHAPTER IX.--PRAY FOR THE CHURCH IN SYRIA. 
Remember in your prayers the Church in Syria, which now has God for its 
shepherd, instead of me. Jesus Christ alone will oversee it, and your love [will 
also regard it]. But as for me, I am ashamed to be counted one of them; for 
indeed I am not worthy, as being the very last of them, and one born out of due 
time. But I have obtained mercy to be somebody, if I shall attain to God. My 
spirit salutes you, and the love of the Churches that have received me in the 
name of Jesus Christ, and not as a mere passer-by. For even those Churches which 
were not near to me in the way, I mean according to the flesh, have gone before 
me, city by city, [to meet me.] 
CHAPTER X.--CONCLUSION. 
Now I write these things to you from Smyrna by the Ephesians, who are 
deservedly most happy. There is also with me, along with many others, Crocus, 
one dearly beloved by me. As to those who have gone before me from Syria to Rome 
for the glory of God, I believe that you are acquainted with them; to whom, 
[then,] do ye make known that I am at hand. For they are all worthy, both of God 
and of you; and it is becoming that you should refresh them in all things. I 
have written these things unto you, on the day before the ninth of the Kalends 
of September (that is, on the twenty-third day of August). Fare ye well to the 
end, in the patience of Jesus Christ. Amen. 

