
Ignatius to the Trallians












THE EPISTLE OF IGNATIUS TO THE TRALLIANS 
SHORTER VERSION 
Ignatius, who is also called Theophorus, to the holy Church which is at 
Tralles, in Asia, beloved of God, the Father of Jesus Christ, elect, and worthy 
of God, possessing peace through the flesh, and blood, and passion of Jesus 
Christ, who is our hope, through our rising again to Him, which also I salute in 
its fulness, and in the apostalical character, and wish abundance of happiness. 
CHAPTER I.--ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF THEIR EXCELLENCE. 
I know that ye possess an unblameable and sincere mind in patience, and that 
not only in present practice, but according to inherent nature, as Polybius your 
bishop has shown me, who has come to Smyrna by the will of God and Jesus Christ, 
and so sympathized in the joy which I, who am bound in Christ Jesus, possess, 
that I beheld your whole multitude in him. Having therefore received through him 
the testimony of your good-will, according to God, I gloried to find you, as I 
knew you were, the followers of God. 
CHAPTER II.--BE SUBJECT TO THE BISHOP, ETC. 
For, since ye are subject to the bishop as to Jesus Christ, ye appear to me 
to live not after the manner of men, but according to Jesus Christ, who died for 
us, in order, by believing in His death, ye may escape from death. It is 
therefore necessary that, as ye indeed do, so without the bishop ye should do 
nothing, but should also be subject to the presbytery, as to the apostle of 
Jesus Christ, who is our hope, in whom, if we live, we shall [at last] be found. 
It is fitting also that the deacons, as being [the ministers] of the mysteries 
of Jesus Christ, should in every respect be pleasing to all. For they are not 
ministers of meat and drink, but servants of the Church of God. They are bound, 
therefore, to avoid all grounds of accusation [against them], as they would do 
fire. 
CHAPTER III.--HONOUR THE DEACONS, ETC. 
In like manner, let all reverence the deacons as an appointment of Jesus 
Christ, and the bishop as Jesus Christ, who is the Son of the Father, and the 
presbyters as the sanhedrin of God, and assembly of the apostles. Apart from 
these, there is no Church. Concerning all this, I am persuaded that ye are of 
the same opinion. For I have received the manifestations of your love, and still 
have it with me, in your bishop, whose very appearance is highly instructive, 
and his meekness of itself a power; whom I imagine even the ungodly must 
reverence, seeing they are also pleased that I do not spare myself. But shall I, 
when permitted to write on this point, reach such a height of self-esteem, that 
though being a condemned man, I should issue commands to you as if I were an 
apostle? 
CHAPTER IV.--I HAVE NEED OF HUMILITY. 
I have great knowledge in God, but I restrain myself, lest, I should perish 
through boasting. For now it is needful for me to be the more fearful; and not 
give heed to those that puff me up. For they that speak to me [in the way of 
commendation] scourge me. For I do indeed desire to suffer, but I know not if I 
be worthy to do so. For this longing, though it is not manifest to many, all the 
more vehemently assails me. I therefore have need of meekness, by which the 
prince of this world is brought to nought. 
CHAPTER V.--I WILL NOT TEACH YOU PROFOUND DOCTRINES. 
Am I not able to write to you of heavenly things? But I fear to do so, lest I 
should inflict injury on you who are but babes [in Christ]. Pardon me in this 
respect, lest, as not being able to receive [such doctrines], ye should be 
strangled by them. For even I, though I am bound [for Christ], yet am not on 
that account able to understand heavenly things, and the places of the angels, 
and their gatherings under their respective princes, things visible and 
invisible. Without reference to such abstruse subjects, I am still but a learner 
[in other respects]; for many things are wanting to us, that we come not short 
of God. 
CHAPTER VI.--ABSTAIN FROM THE POISON OF HERETICS. 
I therefore, yet not I, but the love of Jesus Christ, entreat you that ye use 
Christian nourishment only, and abstain from herbage of a different kind; I mean 
heresy. For those [that are given to this] mix up Jesus Christ with their own 
poison, speaking things which are unworthy of credit, like those who administer 
a deadly drug in sweet wine, which he who is ignorant of does greedily take, 
with a fatal pleasure leading to his own death. 
CHAPTER VII.--THE SAME CONTINUED. 
Be on your guard, therefore, against such persons. And this will be the case 
with you if you are not puffed up, and continue in intimate union with Jesus 
Christ our God, and the bishop, and the enactments of the apostles. He that is 
within the altar is pure, but he that is without is not pure; that is, he who 
does anything apart from the bishop, and presbytery, and deacons, such a man is 
not pure in his conscience. 
CHAPTER VIII.--BE ON YOUR GUARD AGAINST THE SNARES OF THE DEVIL. 
Not that I know there is anything of this kind among you; but I put you on 
your guard, inasmuch as I love you greatly, and foresee the snares of the devil. 
Wherefore, clothing yourselves with meekness, be ye renewed in faith, that is 
the flesh of the Lord, and in love, that is the blood of Jesus Christ. Let no 
one of you cherish any grudge against his neighbour. Give no occasion to the 
Gentiles, lest by means of a few foolish men the whole multitude [of those that 
believe] in God be evil spoken of. For, "Woe to him by whose vanity my name is 
blasphemed among any." 
CHAPTER IX,--REFERENCE TO THE HISTORY OF CHRIST. 
Stop your ears, therefore, when any one speaks to you at variance with Jesus 
Christ, who was descended from David, and was also of Mary; who was truly born, 
and did eat and drink. He was truly persecuted under Pontius Pilate; He was 
truly crucified, and [truly] died, in the sight of beings in heaven, and on 
earth, and under the earth. He was also truly raised from the dead, His Father 
quickening Him, even as after the same manner His Father will so raise up us who 
believe in Him by Christ Jesus, apart from whom we do not possess the true life. 

CHAPTER X.--THE REALITY OF CHRIST'S PASSION. 
But if, as some that are without God, that is, the unbelieving, say, that He 
only seemed to suffer (they themselves only seeming to exist), then why am I in 
bonds? Why do I long to be exposed to s the wild beasts? Do I therefore die in 
vain? Am I not then guilty of falsehood against [the cross of] the Lord? 
CHAPTER XI.--AVOID THE DEADLY ERRORS OF THE DOCETAE. 
Flee, therefore, those evil offshoots [of Satan], which produce death-bearing 
fruit, whereof if any one tastes, he instantly dies. For these men are not the 
planting of the Father. For if they were, they would appear as branches of the 
cross, and their fruit would be incorruptible. By it He calls you through His 
passion, as being His members. The head, therefore, cannot be born by itself, 
without its members; God, who is [the Saviour] Himself, having promised their 
union. 
CHAPTER XII.--CONTINUE IN UNITY AND LOVE. 
I salute you from Smyrna, together with the Churches of God which are with 
me, who have refreshed me in all things, both in the flesh and in the spirit. My 
bonds, which I carry about with me for the sake of Jesus Christ (praying that I 
may attain to God), exhort you. Continue in harmony among yourselves, and in 
prayer with one another; for it becomes every one of you, and especially the 
presbyters, to refresh the bishop, to the hon-our of the Father, of Jesus 
Christ, and of the apostles. I entreat you in love to hear me, that I may not, 
by having written, be a testimony against you. And do ye also pray for me, who 
have need of your love, along with the mercy of God, that I may be worthy of the 
lot for which I am destined, and that I may not be found reprobate. 
CHAPTER XIII.--CONCLUSION. 
The love of the Smyrnaeans and Ephesians salutes you. Remember in your 
prayers the Church which is in Syria, from which also I am not worthy to receive 
my appellation, being the last of them. Fare ye well in Jesus Christ, while ye 
continue subject to the bishop, as to the command [of God], and in like manner 
to the presbytery. And do ye, every man, love one another with an undivided 
heart. Let my spirit be sanctified by yours, not only now, but also when I shall 
attain to God. For I am as yet exposed to danger. But the Father is faithful in 
Jesus Christ to fulfil both mine and your petitions: in whom may ye be found 
unblameable. 

