
Ignatius to the Trallians












The Epistle of St. Ignatius of Antioch to the Trallians, 





translated by Charles H. Hoole, 1885 

CHAPTER 0
0:1 Ignatius, who is also Theophorus, to the holy Church which is at Tralles, 
in Asia, beloved by God, the Father of Jesus Christ, elect and worthy of God, at 
peace by the flesh and blood and the passion of our Lord Jesus Christ, our hope 
in the resurrection unto him; which I salute in the fulness, after the Apostolic 
manner, and pray that it may rejoice greatly. 

CHAPTER 1
1:1 I have known that you have a disposition blameless and unmovable in 
patience, not merely for outward use, but in your very nature. Even as Polybius, 
your bishop, hath showed unto me, who came unto me in Smyrna, according to the 
will of God and of Jesus Christ, and so rejoiced with me in my bonds in Jesus 
Christ, that I beheld your whole multitude in him. 
1:2 Having received, therefore, through him your benevolence, which is 
according to God, I seemed to have found you, as I knew already, to be imitators 
of God. 

CHAPTER 2
2:1 For when ye are subject unto the bishop as unto Jesus Christ, ye appear 
unto me not to live according to man, but according to Jesus Christ who died for 
us, that ye, by believing on his death, might escape death. 
2:2 It is necessary, therefore, that ye should do nothing without the bishop, 
as indeed ye do, and that ye should submit yourselves to the presbytery also, as 
to the Apostles of Jesus Christ, our hope, in whom we shall be found walking. 
2:3 It is necessary, also, that the deacons, being ministers of the mysteries 
of Jesus Christ, should in every way please all men. For they are not ministers 
of meat and drink, but servants of the Church of God; it is therefore their duty 
to avoid offences as fire. 

CHAPTER 3
3:1 In like manner, let all men reverence the deacons, and the bishop 
likewise, even as Jesus Christ who is the Son of the Father; and the presbyters 
as the council of God, and as the bond of the Apostles. Without these there is 
no Church; 
3:2 concerning which things I am persuaded that it is so with you: for I have 
received a specimen of your love, and have it with myself in the person of your 
bishop, whose appearance is great instruction, and whose meekness is strength; 
whom I reckon that even the ungodly respect, loving him because he spareth not 
himself. 
3:3 Have I then, though able to write on this subject, come to such a degree 
of reputation, that though condemned, I should give ordinances unto you as an 
Apostle? 

CHAPTER 4
4:1 I know many things in God, but I measure myself that I may not be lost by 
boasting; for now is it necessary for me to fear even more, and not to attend to 
those who puff me up, for they who say such things to me scourge me. 
4:2 Of a truth, I am content to suffer, yet I know not whether I be worthy. 
For this my zeal doth not appear to many, but it maketh war upon me with greater 
force. Therefore I need meekness, by which the ruler of this world is destroyed. 


CHAPTER 5
5:1 Am I not able to write to you concerning heavenly things? but I fear lest 
I should cause harm to you, because ye are babes; and (forgive me) lest not 
being able to receive it, ye be choked. 
5:2 And I, too, not being according to my bonds, but being able to know the 
things celestial, and the stations of the angels, and the conflicts of 
principalities, both the things visible and invisible, yet even on that account 
am still a learner; for many things are lacking to us, that we may not fall 
short of God. 

CHAPTER 6
6:1 I therefore exhort you, yet not I but the love of Jesus Christ, to use 
the Christian food alone, and to abstain from all strange herbage, which is 
heresy; 
6:2 the time that now is embraces Jesus Christ, not the devil. Do ye 
therefore, having again put on patience, refresh yourselves in faith, which is 
the flesh of the Lord, and love, which is the blood of Jesus Christ. 

CHAPTER 7
7:1 Guard yourselves, therefore, against such as these. And this will happen 
unto you if ye be not puffed up, and separate not from our God Jesus Christ, and 
the bishop, and the commandments of the Apostles. 
7:2 He who is within the altar is pure; that is, he who doeth anything apart 
from the bishop and the presbytery and the deacons, he is not pure in his 
conscience. 

CHAPTER 8
8:1 It is not because I have known anything of the kind in you, but I put you 
on your guard beforehand because ye are my beloved, foreseeing the snares of the 
devil. Do ye therefore, having again put on patience, refresh yourselves in 
faith, which is the flesh of the Lord, and love, which is the blood of Jesus 
Christ. 

8:2 Let none of you have aught against his neighbour; give no opportunities 
to the Gentiles, that the multitude which is in God may not be blasphemed for 
the folly of a few. For woe unto him, through whose foolishness my name among 
certain men is blasphemed. 

CHAPTER 9
9:1 Be ye deaf, therefore, when any one speaketh unto you apart from Jesus 
Christ, who is of the race of David, who was born of Mary, who was truly born, 
ate and drank, was truly persecuted under Pontius Pilate, was truly crucified 
and died, in the sight of the things that are in heaven and on earth and under 
the earth; 
9:2 and was truly raised from the dead, his Father having raised him up; 
according to the similitude of which also his Father shall raise up us who 
believe in him in Christ Jesus, apart from whom we have not the true life. 

CHAPTER 10
10:1 But if, as certain men who are without God, that is unbelievers, assert, 
his passion was an appearance, being themselves an appearance, why am I bound, 
and why do I pray to fight with wild beasts? therefore I die in vain. Of a 
truth, do I not lie against the Lord? 

CHAPTER 11
11:1 Avoid therefore the evil branches that produce deadly fruit, of which if 
any man taste he dieth forthwith. These, therefore, are not the planting of the 
Father, 
11:2 for if they were they would appear branches of the cross, and their 
fruit would have been incorruptible, through which cross in his passion he 
exhorteth us who are his members. The head, therefore, cannot be born apart 
without the members, since God promiseth union, which is himself. 

CHAPTER 12
12:1 I salute you from Smyrna, together with the Churches of God who are 
present with me, who have in all things refreshed me, both in flesh and in 
spirit; 
12:2 my bonds exhort you which I bear about for the sake of Jesus Christ, 
asking that I may attain unto God. Abide in your unity, and in prayer one with 
another, for it becometh each of you separately, and especially the presbyters, 
to refresh the bishop unto the honour of the Father, Jesus Christ and the 
Apostles. 
12:3 I pray you in love to hear me, that I may not be for a testimony against 
you, by writing among you; and pray ye for me also, who need your love in the 
mercy of God, that I may be thought worthy of the lot to which I press forward 
to attain, that I may not be found a castaway. 

CHAPTER 13
13:1 The love of the Smyrnaeans and Ephesians saluteth you. Remember in your 
prayers the Church which is in Syria, of which I am not worthy to be called 
bishop, being the last of them. 
13:2 Farewell in Jesus Christ, being subject to the bishop as to the 
commandment; and in like manner also to the presbytery. And do ye each of you 
love one another with undivided heart. 
13:3 Purify ye my spirit, not only now, but when I attain unto God. For I am 
still in danger; but the Father in Jesus Christ is faithful to fulfil my request 
and yours, in whom may ye be found blameless. 

{End of Ignatius to Trallians} 

