
Infancy Gospel of Thomas












The Infancy Gospel of ThomasLatin TextFrom "The Apocryphal New 
Testament"M.R. James-Translation and NotesOxford: Clarendon Press, 
1924


Here beginneth a treatise of the Boyhood of Jesus according to Thomas.

I. How Mary and Joseph fled with him into Egypt.

When there was a tumult because search was made by Herod for our Lord Jesus 
Christ, that he might slay him, then said an angel unto Joseph: Take Mary and 
her child and flee into Egypt from the face of them that seek to slay him. Now 
Jesus was two years old when he entered into Egypt. And as he walked through a 
sown field he put forth his hand and took of the ears and put them upon the fire 
and ground them and began to eat. [And he gave such favour unto that field that 
year by year when it was sown it yielded unto the lord of it so many measures of 
wheat as the number of the grains which he had taken from it.] Now when they had 
entered into Egypt they took lodging in the house of a certain widow, and abode 
in the same place one year. And Jesus became three years old. And seeing boys 
playing he began to play with them. And he took a dried fish and put it into a 
basin and commanded it to move to and fro, and it began to move. And again he 
said to the fish: Cast out thy salt that is in thee and go into the water. And 
it came to pass. But when the neighbours saw what was done they told it to the 
widow woman in whose house his mother Mary dwelt. And she when she heard it 
hasted and cast them out of her house.

II. How a Master cast him out of the city.

1 And as Jesus walked with Mary his mother through the midst of the 
marketplace of the city, he looked about and saw a master teaching his pupils. 
And behold twelve sparrows which were quarrelling one with another fell from the 
wall into the lap of the master who taught the boys. And when Jesus saw it he 
laughed and stood still. 2 Now when that teacher saw him laughing, he said to 
his pupils in great anger: Go, bring him hither unto me. And when they had 
brought him, the master took hold on his ear and said: What sawest thou that 
thou didst laugh? And he said unto him: Master, see, my hand is full of corn, 
and I shewed it unto them, and scattered the corn, which they are carrying away 
in danger: for this cause they fought with one another that they might partake 
of the corn. 3 And Jesus left not the place until it was accomplished. And for 
this cause the master laboured to cast him out of the city together with his 
mother.

III. How Jesus came out of Egypt.

1 And behold, an angel of the Lord met with Mary and said unto her: Take the 
child and return into the land of the Jews: for they are dead which sought his 
life. So Mary arose with Jesus, and they went into the city Nazareth, which is 
in the inheritance of his (her?) father. 2 But when Joseph departed out of Egypt 
after the death of Herod, he took Jesus into the wilderness until there was 
quiet in Jerusalem from them that sought the life of the child. And he gave 
thanks to God for that he had given him understanding, and because he had found 
grace before the Lord God. Amen.
or, And Mary arose with Jesus, and they went unto the city of Capernaum which 
is of Tiberias, unto the inheritance of her father. 2 But when Joseph heard that 
Jesus was come out of Egypt after the death of Herod, he took him, &c.
or, After these things an angel of the Lord came unto Joseph and unto Mary 
the mother of Jesus and said unto them: Taketh he child, return into the land of 
Israel, for they are dead that sought the life of the child. And they arose and 
went to Nazareth where Joseph possessed the goods of his father. 2 And when 
Jesus was seven years old, there was quiet in the realm of Herod from all them 
that sought the life of the child. And they returned unto Bethlehem and abode 
there.

IV. What Jesus did in the city of Nazareth.

It is a glorious work for Thomas the Israelite (Ismaelite) the apostle of the 
Lord to tell of the works of Jesus after he came out of Egypt unto Nazareth. 
Hear (understand) therefore all of you beloved brethren, the signs which the 
Lord Jesus did when he was in the city of Nazareth: as it is said in the first 
chapter.
1 Now when Jesus was five years old there was a great rain upon the earth, 
and the child Jesus walked about therein. And the rain was very terrible: and he 
gathered the water together into a pool and commanded with a word that it should 
become clear: and forthwith it did so.
2 Again, he took of the clay which came of that pool and made thereof to the 
number of twelve sparrows. Now it was the Sabbath day when Jesus did this among 
the children of the Hebrews: and the children of the Hebrews went and said unto 
Joseph his father: Lo, thy son was playing with us and he took clay and made 
sparrows which it was not right to do upon the Sabbath, and he hath broken it. 
And Joseph went to the child Jesus, and said unto him: Wherefore hast thou done 
this which it was not right to do on the Sabbath? But Jesus spread forth 
(opened) his hands and commanded the sparrows, saying: Go forth into the height 
and fly: ye shall not meet death at any man's hands. And they flew and began to 
cry out and praise almighty God. But when the Jews saw what was done they 
marvelled and departed, proclaiming the signs which Jesus did.
3 But a Pharisee which was with Jesus took a branch of an olive tree and 
began to empty the pool which Jesus had made. And when Jesus saw it he was vexed 
and said to him: O thou of Sodom, ungodly and ignorant, what hurt did the 
fountain of water do thee, which I made? Lo, thou shalt become like a dry tree 
which hath neither roots nor leaf nor fruit. And straightway he was dried up and 
fell to the earth and died: but his parents carried him away dead and reviled 
Joseph, saying: Behold what thy son hath done: teach thou him to pray and not to 
blaspheme.

V. How the people of the city were grieved against Joseph because of that 
which Jesus did.

1 And after some days as Jesus walked with Joseph through the city, there ran 
one of the children and smote Jesus on the arms: but Jesus said unto him: So 
finish thou thy course. And immediately he fell to the earth and died. But they 
when they saw this wonder, cried out saying: From whence cometh this child? And 
they said unto Joseph: It is not right that such a child should be among us. And 
he departed and took him with him. And they said to him: Depart out of this 
place; and if thou must be with us, teach him to pray and not to blaspheme: for 
our sons are put to death by him (lit. lose their senses). 2 And Joseph called 
Jesus and began to admonish him, saying: Wherefore blasphemest thou? They that 
dwell in this place conceive hatred against us. But Jesus said: I know that 
these words are not mine but thine: yet for thy sake I will hold my peace: But 
let them see (? bear) their own foolishness. And straightway they that spake 
against Jesus were made blind, and as they walked to and fro they said: Every 
word that cometh out of his mouth hath fulfillment. 3 And when Joseph saw what 
Jesus had done he took hold on him by his ear in anger: but Jesus was vexed and 
said unto Joseph: It sufficeth thee to see me and not to touch me. For thou 
knowest not who I am, which if thou knewest, thou wouldest not grieve me. And 
albeit I am with thee now, yet was I made before thee.

VI. How Jesus was treated by the Master.

1 There was therefore a man named Zacheus who heard all that Jesus said unto 
Joseph, and he marvelled in himself and said: I have never beheld such a child 
that spake so. And he came near unto Joseph and said to him: Thou hast a wise 
child: deliver him to me to learn letters, and when he is learned in the study 
of the letters, I will teach him reverently that he become not foolish. Joseph 
answered and said unto him: No man is able to teach him but God only. Think you 
that this young child will be the occasion unto us of little torment, my 
brother? [There should be mention of a cross in this sentence. Syriac has, 
Thinkest thou that he is worthy to receive a little cross? See below.]
2 But when Jesus heard Joseph saying these things, he said unto Zacheus: 
Verily, O master, all things that proceed out of my mouth are true. And I am 
before all men, and I am Lord, but ye are the children of strangers: for unto me 
is given the glory of them (or of the worlds) but unto you nothing is given: for 
I am before all worlds. And I know how many are the years of thy life, and when 
thou shalt raise that standard (i. e. the cross) whereof my father spake, then 
shalt thou understand that all things that proceed out of my mouth are true.
3 But the Jews which stood by and heard the words which Jesus spake, 
marvelled and said: Now have we seen such wonders and heard such words from this 
child, as we have never heard neither shall hear from any other man, neither 
from the chief priests nor the doctors nor the Pharisees. 4 Jesus answered and 
said unto them: Wherefore marvel ye? Do ye think it a thing incredible that I 
have told you the truth? I know when ye were born, and your fathers: and if I 
should say more unto you, I know when the world was created, and who sent me 
unto you.
When the Jews heard the word which the child spake, they were wroth because 
they were not able to answer him. And the child turned himself about and 
rejoiced and said: I spake unto you a proverb; but I know that ye are weak and 
know not anything.
5 Now that master said unto Joseph: Bring him unto me and I will teach him 
letters. And Joseph took the child Jesus and brought him to the house [of a 
certain master] where other children also were taught. But the master began to 
teach him the letters with sweet speech, and wrote for him the first line which 
goeth from A unto T, and began to flatter him and to teach him (and commanded 
him to say the letters:) but the child held his peace. 6 Then that teacher smote 
the child on the head and when the child received the blow, he said unto him: I 
ought to teach thee and not thou to teach me. I know the letters which thou 
wouldest teach me, and I know that ye are unto me as vessels out of which cometh 
nought but sound, and neither wisdom nor salvation of the soul. And beginning 
the line he spake all the letters from A even unto T fully with much quickness: 
and he looked upon the master and said: But thou knowest not how to interpret A 
and B: how wouldest thou teach others? Thou hypocrite, if thou knowest and canst 
tell me concerning A, then will I tell thee concerning B. But when the teacher 
began to expound concerning the first letter, he was not able to give any 
answer.
7 Then said Jesus unto Zacheus: Hearken unto me, O master and understand the 
first letter. Give ear unto me, how that it hath two lines (eight quite 
unintelligible descriptive phrases follow).
8 Now when Zacheus saw that he so divided the first letter he was confounded 
at such names, and at his teaching, and cried out and said: Woe is me, for I am 
confounded: I have hired shame unto myself by means of this child. And he said 
unto Joseph: I beseech thee earnestly, my brother, take him away from me: for I 
cannot look upon his face nor hear his mighty words. For this child is able to 
subdue the fire and to restrain the sea, for he was born before the worlds. What 
womb bare him or what manner of mother brought him up I know not. 10 O my 
friends, I am astray in my wits, I am mocked, wretched man that I am. I said 
that I had a disciple, but he is found to be my master. I cannot overcome my 
shame, for I am old, and I cannot find wherewithal to answer him, so that I am 
like to fall into heavy sickness and depart out of the world or go away from 
this city, for all men have seen my shame, that a child hath ensnared me. What 
can I answer any man, or what words can I speak, for he hath overcome me at the 
first letter! I am confounded, O ye my friends and acquaintances, and I can find 
neither first nor last to answer him. 11 And now I beseech thee brother Joseph, 
remove him from me and take him unto thine house, for either he is a sorcerer or 
a god (Lord) or an angel, and what to say I know not.
12 And Jesus turned himself unto the Jews that were with Zacheus and said 
unto them: Now let all them that see not see and let them understand which 
understand not, and let the deaf hear, and let them arise which have died by my 
means, and let me call them that are high unto that which is higher, even as he 
that sent me unto you hath commanded me. And when the child Jesus ceased 
speaking, all the afflicted were made whole, as many as had been afflicted at 
his word. And they durst not speak unto him.

VII. How Jesus raised up a boy.

1 Now on a day, when Jesus climbed up upon an house with the children, he 
began to play with them: but one of the boys fell down through the door out of 
the upper chamber and died straightway. And when the children saw it they fled 
all of them, but Jesus remained alone in the house. 2 And when the parents of 
the child which had died came they spake against Jesus saying: Of a truth thou 
madest him fall. But Jesus said: I never made him fall: nevertheless they 
accused him still. Jesus therefore came down from the house and stood over the 
dead child and cried with a loud voice, calling him by his name: Zeno, Zeno, 
arise and say if I made thee fall. And on a sudden he arose and said: Nay, Lord. 
And when his parents saw this great miracle which Jesus did, they glorified God, 
and worshipped Jesus.

VIII. How Jesus healed the foot of a boy.

1 And aft er a few days a certain boy of that village was cleaving wood, and 
smote his foot. 2 And when much people came unto him, Jesus also came with them. 
And he touched the foot which was hurt, and forthwith it was made whole. And 
Jesus said unto him: Arise and cleave the wood and remember me. But when the 
multitude that were with him saw the signs which were done they worshipped Jesus 
and said: of a truth we believe surely that thou art God.

IX. How Jesus bare water in his cloak.

1 And when Jesus was six years old, his mother sent him to draw water. And 
when Jesus was come unto the well there was much people there and they brake his 
pitcher. 2 But he took the cloak which he had upon him and filled it with water 
and brought it to Mary his mother. And when his mother saw the miracle that 
Jesus did she kissed him and said: Lord, hearken unto me and save my son.

X. How Jesus sowed wheat.

1 Now when it was seed time, Joseph went forth to sow corn, and Jesus 
followed after him. And when Joseph began to sow, Jesus put forth his hand and 
took of the corn so much as he could hold in his hand, and scattered it. 2 
Joseph therefore came at the time of harvest to reap his harvest. And Jesus also 
came and gathered the ears which he had sown, and they made an hundred measures 
of good corn: and he called the poor and the widows and fatherless and gave them 
the corn which he had gained, save that Joseph took a little thereof unto his 
house for a blessing [of Jesus].

XI. How Jesus made a short beam even with a long one.

1 And Jesus came to be eight years old. Now Joseph was a builder and wrought 
ploughs and yokes for oxen. And on a day a certain rich man said unto Joseph: 
Sir, make me a bed serviceable and comely. But Joseph was troubled because the 
beam which he had made ready for the work was short. 2 Jesus said unto him: Be 
not troubled, but take thou hold of this beam by the one end and I by the other, 
and let us draw it out. And so it came to pass, and forthwith Joseph found it 
serviceable for that which he desired. And he said unto Joseph: Behold, fashion 
that thou wilt. But Joseph when he saw what was done embraced him and said: 
Blessed am I for that God hath given me such a son.

XII. How Jesus was delivered over to learn letters.

1 And when Joseph saw that he had so great grace and that he increased in 
stature, he thought to deliver him over to learn letters. And he delivered him 
to another doctor that he should teach him. Then said that doctor unto Joseph: 
What manner of letters wouldest thou teach this child? Joseph answered and said: 
Teach him first the letters of the Gentiles and after that the Hebrew. Now the 
doctor knew that he was of an excellent understanding, and received him gladly. 
And when he had written for him the first line, that is to say A and B, he 
taught him for the space of some hours: but Jesus held his peace and answered 
nothing. 2 At the last Jesus said unto the master: If thou be verily a master 
and indeed knowest the letters, tell me the power of A and I will tell thee the 
power of B. Then was the master filled with indignation and smote him on the 
head. But Jesus was wroth and cursed him, and on a sudden he fell down and died. 
3 But Jesus returned unto his own home. And Joseph enjoined Mary his mother that 
she should not let him go out of the court of the house.

XIII. How he was delivered unto another master.

1 After many days there came another doctor which was a friend of Joseph and 
said unto him: Deliver him to me and I will teach him letters with much 
gentleness. And Joseph said unto him: If thou art able, take him and teach him, 
and it shall be done gladly. And when the doctor received Jesus, he went with 
fear and great boldness and took him rejoicing. 2 And when he was come unto the 
house of the doctor, he found a book lying in that place and took it and opened 
it, and read not those things which were written therein, but opened his mouth 
and spake by the Holy Ghost and taught the law: and all that stood by hearkened 
attentively, and the teacher sat by him and heard him gladly and entreated him 
to continue teaching. And much people gathered together and heard all the holy 
doctrine which he taught and the beloved words which proceeded out of his mouth 
marvelling that he being a little child spake such things.
3 But when Joseph heard, he was afraid and ran unto the place where Jesus 
was; and the master said unto Joseph: Know my brother, that I received thy child 
to teach him and instruct him, but he is filled with great grace and wisdom. 
Therefore behold now, take him unto thy house with joy, because the grace which 
he hath is given him of the Lord. 4 And when Jesus heard the master speak thus 
he was joyful and said: Lo, now thou hast well said, O master: for thy sake 
shall he rise again who was dead. And Joseph took him unto his own home.

XIV. How Jesus made James whole of the bite of a serpent.

Now Joseph sent James to gather straw, and Jesus followed after him. And as 
James gathered straw, a viper bit him and he fell to the earth as dead by means 
of the venom. But when Jesus saw that, he breathed upon his wound and forthwith 
James was made whole, and the viper died.

XV. How Jesus raised up a boy.

After a few days a child that was his neighbour died, and his mother mourned 
for him sore; and when Jesus heard, he went and stood over the child, and smote 
him on the breast and said: Child, I say unto thee, die not, but live. And 
immediately the child arose: and Jesus said unto the mother of the child: Take 
up thy son and give him suck, and remember me. 2 But the multitudes when they 
saw that miracle said: Of a truth this child is from heaven, for now hath he set 
free many souls from death and hath saved all them that hoped in him.

[A gap in all the Latin MSS. filled by the Greek text A, cap. 19,1-3 Jesus 
and the doctors in the Temple.]

3 The Scribes and Pharisees said unto Mary: Art thou the mother of this 
child? and Mary said: Of a truth I am. And they said unto her: Blessed art thou 
among women, because God hath blessed the fruit of thy womb in that he hath 
given thee a child so glorious: for so great gifts of wisdom we have never seen 
nor heard in any.
4 And Jesus arose and followed his mother. But Mary kept in her heart all the 
great signs which Jesus wrought among the people, in healing many that were 
sick. And Jesus increased in stature and wisdom, and all that saw him glorified 
God the Father Almighty: Who is blessed for ever and ever. Amen.
All these things have I, Thomas the Israelite (Ismaelite), written and 
recorded for the Gentiles and for our brethren, and likewise many other things 
which Jesus did, which was born in the land of Juda. Behold, the house of Israel 
hath seen all these from the first even unto the last, even how great signs and 
wonders Jesus did among them, which were good exceedingly. And this is he which 
shall judge the world according to the will of his Father, immortal and 
invisible, as the holy Scripture declareth and as the prophets have testified of 
his works among all the peoples of Israel: for he is the Son of God throughout 
all the World. And unto him belongeth all glory and honour everlastingly, who 
liveth and reigneth God, world without end. Amen.

