
Infancy Gospel of Thomas












Second Greek Form

The Writing of the Holy Apostle Thomas Concerning the 
  Childhood of the Lord.

Second Greek 
Form
--------

The Writing of the Holy Apostle 
  Thomas Concerning the Childhood of the Lord.
1. I Thomas the Israelite have deemed it necessary to make known to all the 
brethren of the heathen the great things which our Lord Jesus Christ did in His 
childhood, when He dwelt in the body in the city of Nazareth, going in the fifth 
year of His age.
2. On one of the days, there being a rainstorm, He went out of the house 
where His mother was, and played on the ground where the waters were flowing. 
And He made pools, and brought in the waters, and the pools were filled with 
water. Then He says: It is my will that you become clear and excellent waters. 
And they became so directly. And a certain boy, the son of Annas the scribe, 
came past, and with a willow branch which he was carrying threw down the pools, 
and the water flowed out. And Jesus turning, said to him: O impious and wicked, 
how have the pools wronged thee, that thou hast emptied them? Thou shall not go 
on thy way, and thou shalt be dried up like the branch which thou art carrying. 
And as he went along, in a short time he fell down and died. And when the 
children that were playing with him saw this, they wondered, and went away and 
told the father of the dead boy. And he ran and found his child dead, and he 
went away and reproached Joseph.
3. And Jesus made of that clay twelve sparrows, and it was the Sabbath. And a 
child ran and told Joseph, saying: Behold, thy child is playing about the 
stream, and of the clay he has made sparrows, which is not lawful. And when he 
heard this, he went, and said to the child: Why dost thou do this, profaning the 
Sabbath? But Jesus gave him no answer, but looked upon the sparrows, and said: 
Go away, fly, and live, and remember me. And at this word they flew, and went up 
into the air. And when Joseph saw it, he wondered.
4. And some days after, when Jesus was going through the midst of the city, a 
boy threw a stone at Him, and struck Him on the shoulder. And Jesus said to him: 
Thou shalt not go on thy way. And directly falling down, he also died. And they 
that happened to be there were struck with astonishment, saying: Whence is this 
child, that every word he says is certainly accomplished? And they also went and 
reproached Joseph, saying: It is impossible for thee to live with us in this 
city: but if thou wishest to do so, teach thy child to bless, and not to curse: 
for he is killing our children, and everything that he says is certainly 
accomplished.
5. And Joseph was sitting in his seat, and the child stood before him; and he 
took hold of Him by the ear, and pinched it hard. And Jesus looked at him 
steadily, and said: It is enough for thee.
6. And on the day after he took Him by the hand, and led Him to a certain 
teacher, Zacchaeus by name, and says to him: O master, take this child, and 
teach him his letters. And he says: Hand him over to me, brother, and I shall 
teach him the Scripture; and I shall persuade him to bless all, and not to 
curse. And Jesus hearing, laughed, and said to them: You say what you know; but 
I know more than you, for I am before the ages. And I know when your fathers' 
fathers were born; and I know how many are the years of your life. And hearing 
this, they were struck with astonishment. And again Jesus said to them: You 
wonder because I said to you that I knew how many are the years of your life. 
Assuredly I know when the world was created. Behold, you do not believe me now. 
When you see my cross, then will ye believe that I speak the truth. And they 
were struck with astonishment when they heard these things.
7. And Zacchaeus, having written the alphabet in Hebrew, says to Him: Alpha. 
And the child says: Alpha. And again the teacher: Alpha; and the child likewise. 
Then again the teacher says the Alpha for the third time. Then Jesus, looking in 
the master's face, says: How canst thou, not knowing the Alpha, teach another 
the Beta? And the child, beginning from the Alpha, said by Himself the 
twenty-two letters. Then also He says again: Hear, O teacher, the order of the 
first letter, and know how many entrances and lines it has, and strokes common, 
crossing and coming together. 
And when Zacchaeus heard such an account of the one letter, he was so struck 
with astonishment, that he could make no answer. And he turned and said to 
Joseph: This child assuredly, brother, does not belong to the earth. Take him, 
then, away from me.
8. And after these things, on one of the days Jesus was playing with other 
children on the roof of a house. And one boy was pushed by another, and hurled 
down upon the ground, and he died. And seeing this, the boys that were playing 
with him ran away; and Jesus only was left standing upon the roof from which the 
boy had been hurled down. And when the news was brought to the parents of the 
dead boy, they ran weeping; and finding their boy lying dead upon the ground, 
and Jesus standing above, they supposed that their boy had been thrown down by 
Him; and fixing their eyes upon Him, they reviled Him. And seeing this, Jesus 
directly came down from the roof, and stood at the head of the dead body, and 
says to him: Zeno, did I throw thee down? Stand up, and tell us. For this was 
the name of the boy. And at the word the boy stood up and adored Jesus, and 
said: My lord, thou didst not throw me down, but thou hast brought me to life 
when I was dead.
9. And a few days after, one of the neighbours, when splitting wood, cut away 
the lower part of his foot with the axe, and was on the point of death from loss 
of blood. And a great number of people ran together, and Jesus came with them to 
the place. And He took hold of the young man's wounded foot, and cured him 
directly, and says to him: Rise up, split thy wood. And he rose up and adored 
Him, giving thanks, and splitting the wood. Likewise also all that were there 
wondered, and gave thanks to Him.
10. And when He was six years old, Mary His mother sent Him to bring water 
from the fountain. And as He went along, the pitcher was broken. And going to 
the fountain He unfolded His overcoat, and drew water from the fountain, and 
filled it, and took the water to His mother. And seeing this, she was struck 
with astonishment, and embraced Him, and kissed Him.
11. And when Jesus had come to the eighth year of His age, Joseph was ordered 
by a certain rich man to make him a couch. For he was a carpenter. And he went 
out into the field to get wood; and Jesus went with him. And having cut two 
pieces of wood, and smoothed them with the axe, he put the one beside the other; 
and in measuring he found it too short. And when he saw this he was grieved, and 
sought to find another piece. And seeing this, Jesus says to him: Put these two 
pieces together, so as to make both ends even. And Joseph, in doubt as to what 
the child should mean, did as he was told. And He says to him again: Take a firm 
hold of the short piece. And Joseph, in astonishment, took hold of it. Then 
Jesus also, taking hold of the other end, drew it towards Himself, and make it 
equal to the other piece of wood. And He says to Joseph: Grieve no more, but do 
thy work without hindrance. And seeing this, he wondered greatly, and says to 
himself: Blessed am I, because God has given me such a boy. And when they came 
back to the city, Joseph gave an account of the matter to Mary. And when she 
heard and saw the strange miracles of her son, she rejoiced and glorified Him, 
with the Father and the Holy Spirit, now and ever, and for evermore. Amen. 

