
Infancy Gospel of James












Introduction
The older testimonies about this book have been given already. I now present 
the three principal forms of it, as given by Tischendorf: two Greek texts, A and 
B, and one Latin.
The few Greek manuscripts are all late. The earliest authorities are a much 
abbreviated Syriac version of which the manuscript is of the sixth century, and 
a Latin palimpsest at Vienna of the fifth or sixth century, which has never been 
deciphered in full.
The Latin version translated here is found in more manuscripts than the 
Greek; none of them, I think, is earlier than the thirteenth century.


The stories of Thomas the Israelite, the Philosopher, concerning the works of 
the Childhood of the Lord.
I. I, Thomas the Israelite, tell unto you, even all the brethren that are of 
the Gentiles, to make known unto you the works of the childhood of our Lord 
Jesus Christ and his mighty deeds, even all that he did when he was born in our 
land: whereof the beginning is thus:
II. 1 This little child Jesus when he was five years old was playing at the 
ford of a brook: and he gathered together the waters that flowed there into 
pools, and made them straightway clean, and commanded them by his word alone. 2 
And having made soft clay, he fashioned thereof twelve sparrows. And it was the 
Sabbath when he did these things (or made them). And there were also many other 
little children playing with him.
3 And a certain Jew when he saw what Jesus did, playing upon the Sabbath day, 
departed straightway and told his father Joseph: Lo, thy child is at the brook, 
and he hath taken clay and fashioned twelve little birds, and hath polluted the 
Sabbath day. 4 And Joseph came to the place and saw: and cried out to him, 
saying: Wherefore doest thou these things on the Sabbath, which it is not lawful 
to do? But Jesus clapped his hands together and cried out to the sparrows and 
said to them: Go! and the sparrows took their flight and went away chirping. 5 
And when the Jews saw it they were amazed, and departed and told their chief men 
that which they had seen Jesus do.
III. 1 But the son of Annas the scribe was standing there with Joseph; and he 
took a branch of a willow and dispersed the waters which Jesus had gathered 
together. 2 And when Jesus saw what was done, he was wroth and said unto him: O 
evil, ungodly, and foolish one, what hurt did the pools and the waters do thee? 
behold, now also thou shalt be withered like a tree, and shalt not bear leaves, 
neither root, nor fruit. 3 And straightway that lad withered up wholly, but 
Jesus departed and went unto Joseph's house. But the parents of him that was 
withered took him up, bewailing his youth, and brought him to Joseph, and 
accused him 'for that thou hast such a child which doeth such deeds.'
IV. 1 After that again he went through the village, and a child ran and 
dashed against his shoulder. And Jesus was provoked and said unto him: Thou 
shalt not finish thy course (lit. go all thy way). And immediately he fell down 
and died. But certain when they saw what was done said: Whence was this young 
child born, for that every word of his is an accomplished work? And the parents 
of him that was dead came unto Joseph, and blamed him, saying: Thou that hast 
such a child canst not dwell with us in the village: or do thou teach him to 
bless and not to curse: for he slayeth our children.
V. 1 And Joseph called the young child apart and admonished him, saying: 
Wherefore doest thou such things, that these suffer and hate us and persecute 
us? But Jesus said: I know that these thy words are not thine: nevertheless for 
thy sake I will hold my peace: but they shall bear their punishment. And 
straightway they that accused him were smitten with blindness. 2 And they that 
saw it were sore afraid and perplexed, and said concerning him that every word 
which he spake whether it were good or bad, was a deed, and became a marvel. And 
when they (he ?) saw that Jesus had so done, Joseph arose and took hold upon his 
ear and wrung it sore. 3 And the young child was wroth and said unto him: It 
sufficeth thee (or them) to seek and not to find, and verily thou hast done 
unwisely: knowest thou not that I am thine? vex me not.
VI. 1 Now a certain teacher, Zacchaeus by name, stood there and he heard in 
part when Jesus said these things to his father and he marvelled greatly that 
being a young child he spake such matters. 2 And after a few days he came near 
unto Joseph and said unto him: Thou hast a wise child, and he hath 
understanding. Come, deliver him to me that he may learn letters. And I will 
teach him with the letters all knowledge and that he salute all the elders and 
honour them as grandfathers and fathers, and love them of his own years. 3 And 
he told him all the letters from Alpha even to Omega clearly, with much 
questioning. But Jesus looked upon Zacchaeus the teacher and saith unto him: 
Thou that knowest not the Alpha according to its nature, how canst thou teach 
others the Beta? thou hypocrite, first, if thou knowest it, teach the Alpha, and 
then will we believe thee concerning the Beta. Then began he to confound the 
mouth of the teacher concerning the first letter, and he could not prevail to 
answer him. 4 And in the hearing of many the young child saith to Zacchaeus: 
Hear, O teacher, the ordinance of the first letter and pay heed to this, how 
that it hath [what follows is really unintelligible in this and in all the 
parallel texts: a literal version would run something like this: how that it 
hath lines, and a middle mark, which thou seest, common to both, going apart; 
coming together, raised up on high, dancing (a corrupt word), of three signs, 
like in kind (a corrupt word), balanced, equal in measure]: thou hast the rules 
of the Alpha.

VII. 1 Now when Zacchaeus the teacher heard such and so many allegories of 
the first letter spoken by the young child, he was perplexed at his answer and 
his instruction being so great, and said to them that were there: Woe is me, 
wretch that I am, I am confounded: I have brought shame to myself by drawing to 
me this young child. 2 Take him away, therefore I beseech thee, my brother 
Joseph: I cannot endure the severity of his look, I cannot once make clear my 
(or his) word. This young child is not earthly born: this is one that can tame 
even fire: be like this is one begotten before the making of the world. What 
belly bare this, what womb nurtured it? I know not. Woe is me, O my friend, he 
putteth me from my sense, I cannot follow his understanding. I have deceived 
myself, thrice wretched man that I am: I strove to get me a disciple and I am 
found to have a master. 3 I think, O my friends, upon my shame, for that being 
old I have been overcome by a young child;- and I am even ready to faint and to 
die because of the boy, for I am not able at this present hour to look him in 
the face. And when all men say that I have been overcome by a little child, what 
have I to say? and what can I tell concerning the lines of the first letter 
whereof he spake to me? I am ignorant, O my friends, for neither beginning nor 
end of it (or him) do I know. 4 Wherefore I beseech thee, my brother Joseph, 
take him away unto thine house: for he is somewhat great, whether god or angel 
or what I should call him, I know not.
VIII. 1 And as the Jews were counselling Zacchaeus, the young child laughed 
greatly and said: Now let those bear fruit that were barren (Gr. that are thine) 
and let them see that were blind in heart. I am come from above that I may curse 
them, and call them to the things that are above, even as he commanded which 
hath sent me for your sakes. 2 And when the young child ceased speaking, 
immediately all they were made whole which had come under his curse. And no man 
after that durst provoke him, lest he should curse him, and he should be maimed.
IX. 1 Now after certain days Jesus was playing in the upper story of a 
certain house, and one of the young children that played with him fell down from 
the house and died. And the other children when they saw it fled, and Jesus 
remained alone. 2 And the parents of him that was dead came and accused him that 
he had cast him down. (And Jesus said: I did not cast him down) but they reviled 
him still. 3 Then Jesus leaped down from the roof and stood by the body of the 
child and cried with a loud voice and said: Zeno (for so was his name called), 
arise and tell me, did I cast thee down? And straightway he arose and said: Nay, 
Lord, thou didst not cast me down, but didst raise me up. And when they saw it 
they were amazed: and the parents of the child glorified God for the sign which 
had come to pass, and worshipped Jesus.
X. 1 After a few days, a certain young man was cleaving wood in the 
neighbourhood (MSS. corner), and the axe fell and cut in sunder the sole of his 
foot, and losing much blood he was at the point to die. 2 And when there was a 
tumult and concourse, the young child Jesus also ran thither, and by force 
passed through the multitude, and took hold upon the foot of the young man that 
was smitten, and straightway it was healed. And he said unto the young man: 
Arise now and cleave the wood and remember me. But when the multitude saw what 
was done they worshipped the young child, saying: Verily the spirit of God 
dwelleth in this young child.
XI. 1 Now when he was six years old, his mother sendeth him to draw water and 
bear it into the house, and gave him a pitcher: but in the press he struck it 
against another and the pitcher was broken. 2 But Jesus spread out the garment 
which was upon him and filled it with water and brought it to his mother. And 
when his mother saw what was done she kissed him; and she kept within herself 
the mysteries which she saw him do.
XII. 1 Again, in the time of sowing the young child went forth with his 
father to sow wheat in their land: and as his father sowed, the young child 
Jesus sowed also one corn of wheat. 2 And he reaped it and threshed it and made 
thereof an hundred measures (cors): and he called all the poor of the village 
unto the threshing floor and gave them the wheat. And Joseph took the residue of 
the wheat. And he was eight years old when he wrought this sign.
XIII. 1 Now his father was a carpenter and made at that time ploughs and 
yokes. And there was required of him a bed by a certain rich man, that he should 
make it for him. And whereas one beam, that which is called the shifting one was 
too short and Joseph knew not what to do, the young child Jesus said to his 
father Joseph: Lay down the two pieces of wood and make them even at the end 
next unto thee (MSS. at the middle part). And Joseph did as the young child said 
unto him. And Jesus stood at the other end and took hold upon the shorter beam 
and stretched it and made it equal with the other. And his father Joseph saw it 
and marvelled: and he embraced the young child and kissed him, saying: Happy am 
I for that God hath given me this young child.
XIV. 1 But when Joseph saw the understanding of the child, and his age, that 
it was coming to the full, he thought with himself again that he should not be 
ignorant of letters; and he took him and delivered him to another teacher. And 
the teacher said unto Joseph: First will I teach him the Greek letters, and 
after that the Hebrew. For the teacher knew the skill of the child and was 
afraid of him: notwithstanding he wrote the alphabet and Jesus pondered thereon 
a long time and answered him not. 2 And Jesus said to him: If thou be indeed a 
teacher and if thou knowest letters well, tell me the power of the Alpha and 
then will I tell thee the power of the Beta. And the teacher was provoked and 
smote him on the head. And the young child was hurt and cursed him, and 
straightway he fainted and fell to the ground on his face. 3 And the child 
returned unto the house of Joseph: and Joseph was grieved and commanded his 
mother, saying: Let him not forth without the door, for all they die that 
provoke him to wrath.
XV. 1 And after some time yet another teacher which was a faithful friend of 
Joseph said to him: Bring the young child unto me to the school, peradventure I 
may be able by cockering him to teach him the letters. And Joseph said: If thou 
hast no fear, my brother, take him with thee. And he took him with him, in fear 
and much trouble of spirit, but the young child followed him gladly. 2 And going 
with boldness into the school he found a book lying upon the pulpit and he took 
it, and read not the letters that were therein, but opened his mouth and spake 
by the Holy Spirit, and taught the law to them that stood by. And a great 
multitude came together and stood there hearkening, and marvelled at the beauty 
of his teaching and the readiness of his words, in that being an infant he 
uttered such things. 3 But when Joseph heard it, he was afraid, and ran unto the 
school thinking whether this teacher also were without skill (or smitten with 
infirmity): but the teacher said unto Joseph: Know, my brother, that I received 
this child for a disciple, but he is full of grace and wisdom; and now I beseech 
thee, brother, take him unto thine house. 4 And when the young child heard that, 
he smiled upon him and said: Forasmuch as thou hast said well and hast borne 
right witness, for thy sake shall he also that was smitten be healed. And 
forthwith the other teacher was healed. And Joseph took the young child and 
departed unto his house.
XVI. 1 And Joseph sent his son James to bind fuel and carry it into his 
house. And the young child Jesus also followed him. And as James was gathering 
of faggots, a viper bit the hand of James. 2 And as he was sore afflicted and 
ready to perish, Jesus came near and breathed upon the bite, and straightway the 
pain ceased, and the serpent burst, and forthwith James continued whole.
XVII. 1 And after these things, in the neighbourhood of Joseph, a little 
child fell sick and died, and his mother wept sore. And Jesus heard that there w 
as great mourning and trouble and he ran quickly and found the child dead: and 
he touched his breast and said: I say unto thee, Child, die not, but live and be 
with thy mother. And straightway it looked up and laughed. And he said to the 
woman: Take him up and give him milk, and remember me. 2 And the multitude that 
stood by saw it and marvelled, and said: Of a truth this young child is either a 
god or an angel of God; for every word of his is a perfect work. And Jesus 
departed thence, and was playing with other children.
XVIII. 1 And after some time there was work of building. And there came a 
great tumult, and Jesus arose and went thither: and he saw a man lying dead, and 
took hold of his hand and said: Man, I say unto thee, arise and do thy work. And 
immediately he arose and worshipped him. 2 And when the multitude saw it, they 
were astonished, and said: This young child is from heaven: for he hath saved 
many souls from death, and hath power to save them all his life long.
XIX. 1 And when he was twelve years old his parents went according to the 
custom unto Jerusalem to the feast of the passover with their company: and after 
the passover they returned to go unto their house. And as they returned the 
child Jesus went back to Jerusalem; but his parents supposed that he was in 
their company. 2 And when they had gone a day's journey, they sought him among 
their kinsfolk, and when they found him not, they were troubled, and returned 
again to the city seeking him. And after the third day they found him in the 
temple sitting in the midst of the doctors and hearing and asking them 
questions. And all men paid heed to him and marvelled how that being a young 
child he put to silence the elders and teachers of the people, expounding the 
heads of the law and the parables of the prophets. 3 And his mother Mary came 
near and said unto him: Child, wherefore hast thou so done unto us? behold we 
have sought thee sorrowing. And Jesus said unto them: Why seek ye me? know ye 
not that I must be in my Father's house? 4 But the scribes and Pharisees said: 
Art thou the mother of this child? and she said: I am. And they said unto her: 
Blessed art thou among women because God hath blessed the fruit of thy womb. For 
such glory and such excellence and wisdom we have neither seen nor heard at any 
time. 5 And Jesus arose and followed his mother and was subject unto his 
parents: but his mother kept in mind all that came to pass. And Jesus increased 
in wisdom and stature and grace. Unto him be glory for ever and ever. Amen. 

