
Infancy Gospel of Thomas












Infancy Gospel of Thomas
The following translation is based 
                on the Greek text printed in Ronald F. Hock's The 
                Infancy Gospels of James and Thomas. The text is a 
                slightly modified version of Tischendorf A. Chapters and verses 
                are divided as in the "Scholars Version" translation.
 
Chapter 
                1
(1) 
                I, Thomas the Israelite, am reporting to you, all my brothers 
                from the nations, to reveal the childhood and the greatness of 
                our Lord Jesus Christ, what he did in my country after he was 
                born. This is the beginning of it.
 
Chapter 
                2
(1) When the boy Jesus was 
                five years old, he was playing in a narrow part of a rushing stream. 
                (2) He was gathering the flowing waters into ponds, and immediately 
                they were made clean, and he ordered these things with a single 
                word. (3) And after he made clay, he molded twelve sparrows from 
                it. And it was the Sabbath when he did these things. But there 
                were also many other children playing with him.
(4) Then, a certain Jew 
                saw what Jesus was doing while playing on the Sabbath. Immediately, 
                he departed and reported to Jesus' father, Joseph, "Look, 
                your child is in the stream and he took clay and formed twelve 
                birds and profaned the Sabbath?"
(5) And Joseph went to the 
                area and when he saw him, he shouted, "Why are you doing 
                these things that are not permitted on the Sabbath?"
(6) Jesus, however, clapped 
                his hands and shouted to the sparrows, "Depart, fly, and 
                remember me now that you are alive." And the sparrows departed 
                shrieking.
(7) When the Jews saw this, 
                they were amazed. After they had gone away, they described to 
                their leaders what they had seen Jesus do.
 
Chapter 
                3
(1) The son of Annas the 
                scribe was standing there with Jesus. Taking a branch from a willow 
                tree, he dispersed the waters which Jesus had gathered. (2) When 
                Jesus saw what had happened, he became angry and said to him, 
                "You godless, brainless moron, what did the ponds and waters 
                do to you? Watch this now: you are going to dry up like a tree 
                and you will never produce leaves or roots or fruit."
(3) And immediately, this 
                child withered up completely. Then, Jesus departed and returned 
                to Joseph's house. (4) The parents of the one who had been withered 
                up, however, wailed for their young child as they took his remains 
                away. Then, they went to Joseph and accused him, "You are 
                responsible for the child who did this."
 
Chapter 
                4
(1) Next, he was going through 
                the village again and a running child bumped his shoulder. Becoming 
                bitter, Jesus said to him, "You will not complete your journey." 
                (2) Immediately, he fell down and died.
(3) Then, some of the people 
                who had seen what had happened said, "Where has this child 
                come from so that his every word is a completed deed?"
(4) And going to Joseph, 
                the parents of the one who had died found fault with him. They 
                said, "Because you have such a child, you are not allowed 
                to live with us in the village, or at least teach him to bless 
                and not curse. For our children are dead!"
 
Chapter 
                5
(1) And taking his child 
                aside, he warned him, saying, "Why are you doing these things? 
                These people are suffering and they hate us and cause trouble 
                for us."
(2) Then, Jesus said, "I 
                know that the words I speak are not mine. Nevertheless, I will 
                be silent for your sake, but these people will bear their punishment." 
                And immediately his accusers became blind.
(3) When they saw what he 
                had done, they were extremely afraid and did not know what to 
                do. And they talked about him, saying, "Every word he speaks, 
                good or evil, is an event and becomes a miracle."
(4) When Joseph saw that 
                Jesus had done this, however, he was outraged and took his ear 
                and pulled it extremely hard. (5) Then, the child became angry 
                and said to him, "It is enough for you to seek and not find, 
                but too much for you to act so unwisely. (6) Do you not know that 
                I am not yours? Do not trouble me."
 
Chapter 
                6
(1) A teacher named Zacchaeus 
                overheard everything Jesus said to Joseph and marveled, saying 
                to himself, "As just a child, he utters these things." 
                And taking Joseph aside, he said to him, "You have a wise 
                child; he has a good mind, but give him to me that he may learn 
                letters. I will teach him all knowledge so that he will not be 
                rebellious."
(3) Replying, Joseph said 
                to him, "Nobody except God can subordinate this child. Do 
                not consider him to be a small cross, brother."
(4) As Jesus heard Joseph 
                saying this, he laughed and said to Zacchaeus, "Really, teacher, 
                what my father has said to you is true. (5) I am the Lord of this 
                people and am here in your presence and have been born among you 
                and am with you. (6) I know where you are from and how many years 
                there will be in your lives. I am telling you the truth, teacher, 
                when you were born, I existed. And if you want to be a perfect 
                teacher, listen to me and I will teach you wisdom which nobody 
                knows except me and the one who sent me to you. (7) For you are 
                my disciple and I know you, how old you are and how old you will 
                live to be. (8) And when you see the cross my father has described, 
                you will believe that everything I have said to you is true."
(9) Then, the Jews who were 
                present and heard Jesus were amazed and said, "What a strange 
                and remarkable event. The child is only five years old and already 
                he says such things. For we never heard anyone who speaks words 
                like this child does."
(10) Replying to them, Jesus 
                said, "Are you so amazed? Then you should believe more of 
                what I said to you. I really also know when you and your parents 
                were born and I will tell you this remarkable fact: even when 
                the world was created, I and the one who sent me to you existed."
(11) When the Jews heard 
                the child say this, however, it made them angry, even though they 
                were not able to reply to his speech. (12) Then, the child came 
                forward and leaping toward them, he said, "I taunted you! 
                For I know that you are amazed by little things and have minuscule 
                minds."
(13) Since they thought 
                they were being consoled by the child's exhortation, the teacher 
                said to Joseph, "Lead him to the school and I will teach 
                him letters."
(14) So Joseph took him 
                by the hand and led him into the classroom. (15) And the teacher 
                wrote the alphabet for him and began to practice it many times, 
                but the child said nothing and did not answer him for a long time. 
                (16) Becoming outraged, the teacher hit him on the head. After 
                enduring this stoically, the child said to him, "I am teaching 
                you more than being taught by you because I know the letters you 
                are teaching me and your judgment is great. These things are to 
                you like a copper pitcher or a clashing cymbal which do not offer 
                glory or wisdom through sound. (17) Nobody understands the power 
                of my wisdom." (18) Then, when his rage was finished, he 
                said the alphabet from alpha to omega very quickly.
(19) Looking the teacher 
                in the face, he told him, "Since you do not know the nature 
                of the alpha, how are going to teach me the beta? (20) Hypocrite, 
                if you know, first teach me the alpha then I will believe what 
                you say about the beta." (21) Then, he began to tell the 
                teacher about the first letter. And the teacher was not strong 
                enough to say anything.
(22) Then, while many were 
                listening, he said to Zacchaeus, "Listen, teacher, and observe 
                the structure of the first letter, (23) how it has two standard 
                lines and impresses coming to a point in the middle and remaining 
                there, coming together, lifting up, dancing, having three corners, 
                having two corners, without strokes, of one family, well-balanced, 
                as long as the alpha has equal lines."
 
Chapter 
                7
(1) When Zacchaeus heard 
                such great words and allegories of this sort about the first letter 
                from the child, he was at a loss over what his defense and teaching 
                could be. (2) And he said to those present, "Oh me, I am 
                suffering and at a loss and am ashamed of myself because I took 
                this child. (3) So take him, I urge you, brother Joseph. I am 
                not able to bear his stare or his direct speech. (4) This child 
                was not born of the earth; he is even able to subdue fire. Perhaps, 
                he was born before the creation of the world. (5) What womb bore 
                him, what sort of mother brought him up, I know not. (6) Oh me, 
                friends, I am going out of my mind. (7) I deceived myself and 
                am suffering unimaginably. I struggled to have a student and I 
                have found that I have a teacher. (8) Brothers, consider the shame: 
                an experienced leader has been conquered by a child! (9) And I 
                may have to lose heart and die because of this child. For at this 
                very hour, I am not able to look him in the eye. (10) When everyone 
                says that I have been conquered by a child, what can I say? And 
                what more is there to say about the lines of the first letter 
                than what he already told me? I do not know. (11) So I beg you, 
                brother Joseph, take him to your house. Whether I should call 
                him a god or an angel or something else, I do not know."
 
Chapter 
                8
(1) While the Jews were 
                advising Zacchaeus, the child had a great laugh and said, "Now, 
                the fruitless bear fruit and the blind see and the deaf in the 
                understanding of the heart hear. (2) I am here from above that 
                I may rescue those below and call them to higher things, just 
                as the one who sent me to you commanded me."
(3) And when the child completed 
                his speech, those who were under his curse were immediately saved, 
                (4) but from then on, nobody dared to make him angry because they 
                did not want to be cursed or crippled.
 
Chapter 
                9
(1) And after a few days 
                passed, Jesus was up on a roof of a house. And one of the children 
                playing with him died after falling off the roof. And when the 
                other children saw, they fled and Jesus was left standing alone.
(2) When the parents of 
                the one who had died came, they accused Jesus, "Troublemaker, 
                you threw him down."
(3) But Jesus replied, "I 
                did not throw him down, rather he threw himself down. When he 
                was not acting carefully, he leaped off the roof and died."
(4) Jesus leaped off the 
                roof and stood by the corpse of the boy and cried out with a loud 
                voice and said, "Zeno," - for that was his name - "rise 
                up, talk to me: did I throw you down?"
(5) And rising up immediately, 
                he said, "No, Lord, you did not throw me down, but you did 
                raise me up."
(6) And when they saw this, 
                they were overwhelmed. The parents of the child glorified God 
                on account of the sign which had happened and they worshipped 
                Jesus.
 
Chapter 
                10
(1) A short number of days 
                later, when a certain young man was splitting wood in the neighborhood, 
                his ax fell and cut through the bottom of his foot. As it became 
                bloodless, he was dying.
(2) Then, there was a great 
                clamor and a crowd formed and the child Jesus ran there. And forcing 
                his way through the crowd, he went and seized the young man's 
                wounded foot. Immediately, it was healed.
(3) Then, he said to the 
                young man, "Get up now, chop the wood and remember me."
(4) When the crowd saw what 
                had happened, they worshipped the child, saying, "Truly, 
                the spirit of God dwells in this child."
 
Chapter 
                11
(1) When Jesus was six years 
                old, his mother sent him to draw water to carry into the house. 
                But he accidentally let the water go in the crowd, (2) and crashing, 
                the water jar broke. (3) But unfolding the cloak which was thrown 
                around him, he filled it with water and carried it to his mother.
(4) When his mother saw 
                the sign he had done, she kissed him and treasured in her heart 
                the mysterious things she had seen him do.
 
Chapter 
                12
(1) Then again, in the season 
                of sowing, the child went with his father to sow grain in their 
                field. And as his father was sowing, the child Jesus also sowed 
                one measure of grain. (2) And after he harvested and threshed 
                it, it produced one hundred measures. (3) And calling all the 
                poor of the village to the threshing floor, he gave them grain 
                freely. And Joseph carried the remaining grain away. (4) Jesus 
                was eight years old when he did this sign.
 
Chapter 
                13
(1) Since his father was 
                a carpenter, he was making plows and yokes in that season. (2) 
                An order for a bed was given to him from a rich man, (3) but one 
                of the boards, the one called the crossbeam, was shorter than 
                the other. And since Joseph had no idea what to do, the child 
                Jesus said to his father Joseph, "Put the two pieces of wood 
                down and line up the ends."
(3) And Joseph did just 
                as the child told him. Then, Jesus stood at the other end and 
                grasped the shorter piece of wood and stretching it, he made it 
                equal with the other.
(4) And his father Joseph 
                saw and was amazed and, taking the child, he kissed him, saying, 
                "I am blessed because God gave me this child."
 
Chapter 
                14
(1) When Joseph saw the 
                child's willingness and age and that his mind was also ready, 
                he again wanted him to become accustomed to letters. So, taking 
                him, he gave him to another teacher. (2) The teacher said to Joseph, 
                "First I will teach him Greek, then Hebrew." For the 
                teacher knew about the child's earlier attempt and was afraid. 
                Nonetheless, after writing the alphabet, he instructed the boy 
                for many hours, even though he did not reply to him.
(3) Then, Jesus said to 
                him, "If you are really a teacher and if you know the letters 
                so well, tell me the meaning of the alpha and I will tell you 
                the meaning of the beta."
(4) As he was growing frustrated, 
                the teacher struck him on the head. Then, Jesus became angry and 
                cursed him. Immediately, he fainted and fell on his face.
(5) Then, Jesus turned back 
                to Joseph's house, but Joseph was distressed. He instructed the 
                boy's mother, "Do not let him out the door because the people 
                who anger him will die."
 
Chapter 
                15
(1) After some time had 
                passed, again another teacher, a close friend of Joseph, said 
                to him, "Send the child to me in my classroom. Perhaps with 
                flattery, I will be able to teach him the letters."
(2) And Joseph said to him, 
                "If you are sure, brother, take him with you." And while 
                he took him along with much fear and anxiety, the child went along 
                gladly.
(3) And coming boldly into 
                the classroom, he found a book lying on the desk and taking it, 
                he read the letters in it. Opening his mouth, he spoke in the 
                Holy Spirit and taught the law to those standing there.
(4) A large multitude came 
                and stood around, listening to him. And they marveled at the fullness 
                of his teaching and the readiness of his speech, saying, "This 
                is a child saying such things."
(5) When Joseph heard what 
                was going on, he was afraid and ran to the classroom, thinking, 
                "This teacher is not accustomed to him."
(6) The teacher, however, 
                said to Joseph, "Brother, I want you to know that I received 
                the child as a student, but since he is full of grace and wisdom, 
                I am asking you, brother, take him to your house."
(7) When the child heard 
                these things, he immediately smiled at him and said, "Since 
                you have spoken and witnessed correctly, for your sake the one 
                who was wounded will be healed." And at once, the other teacher 
                was healed. Then, Joseph took the child and went back to his house.
 
Chapter 
                16
(1) Then, Joseph sent his 
                son James to tie up wood and bring it into his house, but the 
                child Jesus also followed him. And while James was collecting 
                the bushes, a viper bit his hand. (2) And as he lay on the ground 
                dying, Jesus approached and blew on the bite. And immediately, 
                his anguish ceased and the animal broke apart and at once James 
                was healthy.
 
Chapter 
                17
(1) After these things happened, 
                an infant in Joseph's neighborhood died and his mother mourned 
                greatly. When Jesus heard that she was extremely sad and was making 
                an uproar, he ran there frantically.
(2) And finding the child 
                dead, he touched his stomach and said, "I say to you, infant, 
                do not die, but live and be with your mother."
(3) Immediately, he was 
                resurrected and laughed. Then, Jesus said to the woman, "Take 
                the child, give him your breast, and remember me."
(4) And when the crowd standing 
                around saw this, they were amazed and said, "Truly, this 
                child either was God or an angel of God because all his words 
                are completed deeds." And Jesus departed from there playing 
                with other children.
 
Chapter 
                18
(1) Another year later, 
                a man building a house died after falling from the full height 
                of it. And after a great commotion began, Jesus stood up and went 
                there. (2) And seeing the dead man lying there, he grabbed his 
                hand and said, "I say to you, man, arise, do your work." 
                And rising up immediately, he worshipped him.
(3) When the crowd saw, 
                they were amazed and said, "This child is a heavenly being. 
                For he has saved many souls from death and has the power to continue 
                saving souls throughout his whole life."
 
Chapter 
                19
(1) When he was twelve years 
                old, his parents went to Jerusalem with a caravan for the festival 
                of Passover, as was their custom. (2) And after the Passover, 
                they returned to their home. When they departed, however, the 
                child Jesus returned to Jerusalem, although his parents thought 
                he was in the caravan. (3) After traveling along the road for 
                one day, they sought him among their relatives. When they did 
                not find him, they grieved. And they turned back to the city, 
                searching for him.
(4) And after three days, 
                they found him in the temple, sitting in the middle of the teachers 
                and listening to the law and questioning them. (5) Everyone paid 
                attention to him and was amazed at how this child was questioning 
                the elders and teachers of the people so closely, interpreting 
                the chief points of the law and parables of the prophets. (6) 
                Then, his mother Mary came to him and said, "Why did you 
                do this to us, child? See how we are troubled as we search for 
                you."
(7) And Jesus said to them, 
                "Why are you searching for me? Do you not know that I must 
                be in my father's house?"
(8) Then, the scribes and 
                Pharisees said, "Are you the mother of this child?"
(9) She said, "I am."
(10) And they said to her, 
                "Blessed are you among women because God has blessed the 
                fruit of your womb. For we have never seen or heard such glory 
                or virtue or wisdom."
(11) When Jesus got up, 
                he followed his mother and submitted to his parents. And his mother 
                treasured everything that had happened. (12) And Jesus continued 
                to grow in wisdom and age and grace.
(13) To him be the glory 
                forever and ever, amen. 
