
Infancy Gospel of Thomas












The Infancy Gospel of ThomasGreek Text BFrom "The Apocryphal New 
Testament"M.R. James-Translation and NotesOxford: Clarendon Press, 
1924



The Writing of the holy Apostle Thomas concerning the conversation of the 
Lord in his childhood.
I. I, Thomas the Israelite, have thought it needful to make known unto all 
the brethren that are of the Gentiles the mighty works of childhood which our 
Lord Jesus Christ wrought when he was conversant in the body, and came unto the 
city of Nazareth in the fifth year of his age.
II. 1 On a certain day when there had fallen a shower of rain he went forth 
of the house where his mother was and played upon the ground where the waters 
were running: and he made pools, and the waters flowed down, and the pools were 
filled with water. Then saith he: I will that ye become clean and wholesome 
waters. And straightway they did so. 2 But a certain son of Annas the scribe 
passed by bearing a branch of willow, and he overthrew the pools with the 
branch, and the waters were poured out. And Jesus turned about and said unto 
him: O ungodly and disobedient one, what hurt have the pools done thee that thou 
hast emptied them? Thou shalt not finish thy course, and thou shalt be withered 
up even as the branch which thou hast in hand. 3 And he went on, and after a 
little he fell and gave up the ghost. And when the young children that played 
with him saw it, they marvelled and departed and told the father of him that was 
dead. And he ran and found the child dead, and went and accused Joseph.
III. 1 Now Jesus made of that clay twelve sparrows: and it was the Sabbath 
day. And a child ran and told Joseph, saying: Behold, thy child playeth about 
the brook, and hath made sparrows of the clay, which is not lawful. 2 And he 
when he heard it went and said to the child: Wherefore doest thou so and 
profaneth the Sabbath? But Jesus answered him not, but looked upon the sparrows 
and said: Go ye, take your flight, and remember me in your life. And at the word 
they took flight and went up into the air. And when Joseph saw it he was 
astonished.
IV. 1 And after certain days, as Jesus passed through the midst of the city, 
a certain child cast a stone at him and smote his shoulder. And Jesus said unto 
him: Thou shalt not finish thy course. And straightway he also fell down and 
died. And they that were there were amazed, saying: From whence is this child, 
that every word which he speaketh becometh a perfect work? 2 But they also 
departed and accused Joseph, saying: Thou wilt not be able to dwell with us in 
this city: but if thou wilt, teach thy child to bless and not to curse: for 
verily he slayeth our children: and every thing that he saith becometh a perfect 
work.
V. And as Joseph sat upon his seat, the child stood before him; and he took 
hold upon his ear and pinched it sore. But Jesus looked upon him earnestly and 
said: It sufficeth thee.
VI. 1 And on the morrow he took him by the hand and led him to a certain 
teacher, Zacchaeus by name, and said unto him: Take this child, O master, and 
teach him letters. And the other said: Deliver him unto me, my brother, and I 
will teach him the scripture, and I will persuade him to bless all men and not 
to curse them. 2 And when Jesus heard that he laughed and said unto them: Ye 
speak that ye know, but I have knowledge more than you, for I am before the 
worlds. And I know when the fathers of your fathers were begotten, and I know 
how many are the years of your life. And every one that heard it was amazed. 3 
And again saith Jesus unto them: Marvel ye because I said unto you that I know 
how many are the years of your life? Of a truth I know when the world was 
created. Behold, now ye believe me not: when ye shall see my cross then will ye 
believe that I speak truth. And they were astonished when they heard all these 
things.
VII. 1 Now Zacchaeus wrote the alphabet in Hebrew, and saith unto him: Alpha. 
And the young child said: Alpha. And again the master said: Alpha, and the young 
child likewise. Then again the third time the master said: Alpha. Then Jesus 
looked upon the teacher and said: Thou that knowest not the Alpha, how canst 
thou teach another the Beta? And the child beginning at the Alpha said of his 
own accord the two and twenty letters. 2 And thereafter saith he: Hear, O master 
the ordinance of the first letter, and know how many incomings and lines it 
hath, and marks, common, going apart, and coming together. And when Zacchaeus 
heard such designations of the one letter he was amazed and had nothing to 
answer; and turning about he said unto Joseph: My brother, this child is of a 
truth not earthly born: take him away therefore from me.
VIII. 1 And after these things one day Jesus was playing with other boys upon 
the top of an house of two stories. And one child was pushed down by another and 
thrown down to the ground and died. And the boys which were playing with him, 
when they saw it, fled, and Jesus was left alone standing upon the roof whence 
the boy was thrown down. 2 And when the parents of the boy that was dead heard 
of it they ran weeping, and when they found the boy lying dead upon the earth 
and Jesus standing alone, they supposed that the boy had been thrown down by 
him, and they looked upon him and reviled him. 3 But Jesus, seeing that, leaped 
down straightway from the upper story and stood at the head of him that was dead 
and saith to him: Zeno, did I cast thee down? Arise and tell. For so was the boy 
called. And with the word the boy rose up and worshipped Jesus and said: Lord, 
thou didst not cast me down, but when I was dead thou didst make me alive.
IX. 1 And a few days after one of the neighbours was cleaving wood and did 
cut off the sole of his foot with the axe, and by loss of blood was at the point 
to die. 2 And much people ran together and Jesus came thither with them. 3 And 
he took hold on the foot of the young man that was smitten, and healed him 
forthwith, and saith unto him: Arise, cleave thy wood. And he arose and 
worshipped him, giving thanks, and cleft the wood. Likewise also all they that 
were there marvelled and gave thanks unto him.
X. Now when he was six years old, Mary his mother sent him to fetch water 
from the spring: and as he went his pitcher was broken. And he went to the 
spring and spread out his upper garment and drew water out of the spring and 
filled it and took it and brought back the water to his mother. And when she saw 
it, was amazed and embraced him and kissed him.
XI. 1 And when he came to the eighth year of his age Joseph was required by a 
certain rich man to build him a bed, for he was a carpenter. And he went forth 
into the field to gather wood, and Jesus also went with him. And he cut two 
beams of wood and wrought them with the axe, and set one beside the other and 
measured and found it too short; and when he saw that he was vexed and sought to 
find another. 2 But Jesus seeing it saith unto him: Set these two together so 
that the ends of both be even. And Joseph, though he was perplexed concerning 
this, what the child should mean, did that which was commanded. And he saith 
again unto him: Take firm hold of the short beam. And Joseph took hold on it, 
marvelling. Then Jesus also took hold of the other end and pulled the [other] 
end thereof and made it also equal to the other beam, and saith unto Joseph: Be 
no more vexed, but do thy work without hindrance. And he when he saw it was 
exceedingly amazed and said within himself: Blessed am I for that God hath given 
me such a son. 3 And when they departed into the city Joseph told it to Mary, 
and she when she heard and saw the wonderful mighty works of her son rejoiced, 
glorifying him with the Father and the Holy Spirit now and for ever and world 
without end. Amen.

