
Irenaeus of Lyons












Book IV.
--------

Preface.
1. By transmitting to thee, my very dear friend, this fourth book of the work 
which is [entitled] The Detection and Refuation of False Knowledge, I 
shall, as I have promised, add weight, by means of the words of the Lord, to 
what I have already advanced; so that thou also, as thou hast requested, mayest 
obtain from me the means of confuting all the heretics everywhere, and not 
permit them, beaten back at all points, to launch out further into the deep of 
error, nor to be drowned in the sea of ignorance; but that thou, turning them 
into the haven of the truth, mayest cause them to attain their salvation.
2. The man, however, who would undertake their conversion, must possess an 
accurate knowledge of their systems or schemes of doctrine. For it is impossible 
for any one to heal the sick, if he has no knowledge of the disease of the 
patients. This was the reason that my predecessors-much superior men to myself, 
too-were unable, notwithstanding, to refute the Valentinians satisfactorily, 
because they were ignorant of these men's system; 
which I have with all care delivered to thee in the first book in which I have 
also shown that their doctrine is a recapitulation of all the heretics. For 
which reason also, in the second, we have had, as in a mirror, a sight of their 
entire discomfiture. For they who oppose these men (the Valentinians) by the 
right method, do [thereby] oppose all who are of an evil mind; and they who 
overthrow them, do in fact overthrow every kind of heresy.
3. For their system is blasphemous above all [others], since they represent 
that the Maker and Framer, who is one God, as I have shown, was produced from a 
defect or apostasy. They utter blasphemy, also, against our Lord, by cutting off 
and dividing Jesus from Christ, and Christ from the Saviour, and again the 
Saviour from the Word, and the Word from the Only-begotten. And since they 
allege that the Creator originated from a defect or apostasy, so have they also 
taught that Christ and the Holy Spirit were emitted on account of this defect, 
and that the Saviour was a product of those Aeons who were produced from a 
defect; so that there is nothing but blasphemy to be found among them. In the 
preceding book, then, the ideas of the apostles as to all these points have been 
set forth, [to the effect] that not only did they, "who from the beginning were 
eye-witnesses and ministers of the word" 
of truth, hold no such opinions, but that they did also preach to us to shun 
these doctrines, 
foreseeing by the Spirit those weak-minded persons who should be led 
astray. 

4. For as the serpent beguiled Eve, by promising her what he had not 
himself, 
so also do these men, by pretending [to possess] superior knowledge, and [to be 
acquainted with] ineffable mysteries; and, by promising that admittance which 
they speak of as taking place within the Pleroma, plunge those that believe them 
into death, rendering them apostates from Him who made them. And at that time, 
indeed, the apostate angel, having effected the disobedience of mankind by means 
of the serpent, imagined that he escaped the notice of the Lord; wherefore God 
assigned him the form 
and name [of a serpent]. But now, since the last times are [come upon us], evil 
is spread abroad among men, which not only renders them apostates, but by many 
machinations does [the devil] raise up blasphemers against the Creator, namely, 
by means of all the heretics already mentioned. For all these, although they 
issue forth from diverse regions, and promulgate different [opinions], do 
nevertheless concur in the same blasphemous design, wounding [men] unto death, 
by teaching blasphemy against God our Maker and Supporter, and derogating from 
the salvation of man. Now man is a mixed organization of soul and flesh, who was 
formed after the likeness of God, and moulded by His hands, that is, by the Son 
and Holy Spirit, to whom also He said, "Let Us make man." 
This, then, is the aim of him who envies our life, to render men disbelievers in 
their own salvation, and blasphemous against God the Creator. For whatsoever all 
the heretics may have advanced with the utmost solemnity, they come to this at 
last, that they blaspheme the Creator, and disallow the salvation of God's 
workmanship, which the flesh truly is; on behalf of which I have proved, in a 
variety of ways, that the Son of God accomplished the whole dispensation [of 
mercy], and have shown that there is none other called God by the Scriptures 
except the Father of all, and the Son, and those who possess the adoption.

Chapter I.-The Lord Acknowledged But 
  One God and Father.
1. Since, therefore, this is sure and stedfast, that no other God or Lord was 
announced by the Spirit, except Him who, as God, rules over all, together with 
His Word, and those who receive the Spirit of adoption, 
that is, those who believe in the one and true God, and in Jesus Christ the Son 
of God; and likewise that the apostles did Of themselves term no one else as 
God, or name [no other] as Lord; and, what is much more important, [since it is 
true] that our Lord [acted likewise], who did also command us to confess no one 
as Father, except Him who is in the heavens, who is the one God and the one 
Father;-those things are clearly shown to be false which these deceivers and 
most perverse sophists advance, maintaining that the being whom they have 
themselves invented is by nature both God and Father; but that the I Demiurge is 
naturally neither God nor Father, but is so termed merely by courtesy (verbo 
tenus), because of his ruling the creation, these perverse mythologists 
state, setting their thoughts against God; and, putting aside the doctrine of 
Christ, and of themselves divining falsehoods, they dispute against the entire 
dispensation of God. For they maintain that their Aeons, and gods, and fathers, 
and lords, are also still further termed heavens, together with their Mother, 
whom they do also call "the Earth," and "Jerusalem," while they also style her 
many other names.
2. Now to whom is it not clear, that if the Lord had known many fathers and 
gods, He would not have taught His disciples to know [only] one God, 
and to call Him alone Father? But He did the rather distinguish those who by 
word merely (verbo tenus) are termed gods, from Him who is truly God, 
that they should not err as to His doctrine, nor understand one [in mistake] for 
another. And if He did indeed teach us to call one Being Father and God, while 
He does from time to time Himself confess other fathers and gods in the same 
sense, then He will appear to enjoin a different course upon His disciples from 
what He follows Himself. Such conduct, however, does not bespeak the good 
teacher, but a misleading and invidious one. The apostles, too, according to 
these men's showing, are proved to be transgressors of the commandment, since 
they confess the Creator as God, and Lord, and Father, as I have shown-if He is 
not alone God and Father. Jesus, therefore, will be to them the author and 
teacher of such transgression, inasmuch as He commanded that one Being should be 
called Father, 
thus imposing upon them the necessity of confessing the Creator as their Father, 
as has been pointed out.

Chapter II.-Proofs from the Plain 
  Testimony of Moses, and of the Other Prophets, Whose Words are the Words of 
  Christ, that There is But One God, the Founder of the World, Whom Our Lord 
  Preached, and Whom He Called His Father.
1. Moses, therefore, making a recapitulation of the whole law, which he had 
received from the Creator (Demiurge), thus speaks in Deuteronomy: "Give ear, O 
ye heavens, and I will speak; and hear, O earth, the words of my mouth." 
Again, David saying that his help came from the Lord, asserts: "My help is from 
the Lord, who made heaven and earth." 
And Esaias confesses that words were uttered by God, who made heaven and earth, 
and governs them. He says: "Hear, O heavens; and give ear, O earth: for the Lord 
hath spoken." 
And again: "Thus saith the Lord God, who made the heaven, and stretched it out; 
who established the earth, and the things in it; and who giveth breath to the 
people upon it, and spirit to them who walk therein." 

2. Again, our Lord Jesus Christ confesses this same Being as His Father, 
where He says: "I confess to thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth." 
What Father will those men have us to understand [by these words], those who are 
most perverse sophists of Pandora? Whether shall it be Bythus, whom they have 
fabled of themselves; or their Mother; or the Only-begotten? Or shall it be he 
whom the Marcionites or the others have invented as god (whom I indeed have 
amply demonstrated to be no god at all); or shall it be (what is really the 
case) the Maker of heaven and earth, whom also the prophets proclaimed,-whom 
Christ, too, confesses as His Father,-whom also the law announces, saying: 
"Hear, O Israel; The Lord thy God is one God? " 

3. But since the writings (literae) of Moses are the words of Christ, 
He does Himself declare to the Jews, as John has recorded in the Gospel: "If ye 
had believed Moses, ye would have believed Me: for he wrote of Me. But if ye 
believe not his writings, neither will ye believe My words." 
He thus indicates in the clearest manner that the writings of Moses are His 
words. If, then, [this be the case with regard] to Moses, so also, beyond a 
doubt, the words of the other prophets are His [words], as I have pointed out. 
And again, the Lord Himself exhibits Abraham as having said to the rich man, 
with reference to all those who were still alive: "If they do not obey Moses and 
the prophets, neither, if any one were to rise from the dead and go to them, 
will they believe him." 

4. Now, He has not merely related to us a story respecting a poor man and a 
rich one; but He has taught us, in the first place, that no one should lead a 
luxurious life, nor, living in worldly pleasures and perpetual feastings, should 
be the slave of his lusts, and forget God. "For there was," He says, "a rich 
man, who was clothed in purple and fine linen, and delighted himself with 
splendid feasts." 

Of such persons, too, the Spirit has spoken by Esaias: "They drink wine with 
[the accompaniment of] harps, and tablets, and psalteries, and flutes; but they 
regard not the works of God, neither do they consider the work of His 
hands." 
Lest, therefore, we should incur the same punishment as these men, the Lord 
reveals [to us] their end; showing at the same time, that if they obeyed Moses 
and the prophets, they would believe in Him whom these had preached, the Son of 
God, who rose from the dead, and bestows life upon us; and He shows that all are 
from one essence, that is, Abraham, and Moses, and the prophets, and also the 
Lord Himself, who rose from the dead, in whom many believe who are of the 
circumcision, who do also hear Moses and the prophets announcing the coming of 
the Son of God. But those who scoff [at the truth] assert that these men were 
from another essence, and they do not know the first-begotten from the dead; 
understanding Christ as a distinct being, who continued as if He were 
impassible, and Jesus, who suffered, as being altogether separate [from 
Him].
5. For they do not receive from the Father the knowledge of the Son; neither 
do they learn who the Father is from the Son, who teaches clearly and without 
parables Him who truly is God. He says: "Swear not at all; neither by heaven, 
for it is God's throne; nor by the earth, for it is His footstool; neither by 
Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King." 
For these words are evidently spoken with reference to the Creator, as also 
Esaias says: "Heaven is my throne, the earth is my footstool." 
And besides this Being there is no other God; otherwise He would not be termed 
by the Lord either" God" or" the great King; "for a Being who can be so 
described admits neither of any other being compared with nor set above Him. For 
he who has any superior over him, and is under the power of another, this being 
never can be called either "God" or "the great King."
6. But neither will these men be able to maintain that such words were 
uttered in an ironical manner, since it is proved to them by the words 
themselves that they were in earnest. For He who uttered them was Truth, and did 
truly vindicate His own house, by driving out of it the changers of money, who 
were buying and selling, saying unto them: "It is written, My house shall be 
called the house of prayer; but ye have made it a den of thieves." 
And what reason had He for thus doing and saying, and vindicating His house, if 
He did preach another God? But [He did so], that He might point out the 
transgressors of His Father's law; for neither did He bring any accusation 
against the house, nor did He blame the law, which He had come to fulfil; but He 
reproved those who were putting His house to an improper use, and those who were 
transgressing the law. And therefore the scribes and Pharisees, too, who from 
the times of the law had begun to despise God, did not receive His Word, that 
is, they did not believe on Christ. Of these Esaias says: "Thy princes are 
rebellious, companions of thieves, loving gifts, following after rewards, not 
judging the fatherless, and negligent of the cause of the widows." 
And Jeremiah, in like manner: "They," he says, "who rule my people did not know 
me; they are senseless and imprudent children; they are wise to do evil, but to 
do well they have no knowledge." 

7. But as many as feared God, and were anxious about His law, these ran to 
Christ, and were all saved. For He said to His disciples: "Go ye to the sheep of 
the house of Israel, 
which have perished." And many more Samaritans, it is said, when the Lord had 
tarried among. them, two days, "believed because of His words, and said to the 
woman, Now we believe, not because of thy saying, for we ourselves have heard 
[Him], and know that this man is truly the Saviour of the world." 
And Paul likewise declares, "And so all Israel shall be saved; " 
but he has also said, that the law was our pedagogue [to bring us] to Christ 
Jesus. 
Let them not therefore ascribe to the law the unbelief of certain [among them]. 
For the law never hindered them from believing in the Son of God; nay, but it 
even exhorted them 
so to do, saying 
that men can be saved in no other way from the old wound of the serpent than by 
believing in Him who, in the likeness of sinful flesh, is lifted up from the 
earth upon the tree of martyrdom, and draws all things to Himself, 
and vivifies the dead.

Chapter III.-Answer to the Cavils of 
  the Gnostics. We are Not to Suppose that the True God Can Be Changed, or Come 
  to an End Because the Heavens, Which are His Throne and the Earth, His 
  Footstool, Shall Pass Away.
1. Again, as to their malignantly asserting that if heaven is indeed the 
throne of God, and earth His footstool, and if it is declared that the heaven 
and earth shall pass away, then when these pass away the God who sitteth above 
must also pass away, and therefore He cannot be the God who is over all; in the 
first place, they are ignorant what the expression means, that heaven is [His] 
throne and earth [His] footstool. For they do not know what God is, but they 
imagine that He sits after the fashion of a man, and is contained within bounds, 
but does not contain. And they are also unacquainted with [the meaning of] the 
passing away of the heaven and earth; but Paul was not ignorant of it when he 
declared, "For the figure of this world passeth away." 
In the next place, David explains their question, for he says that when the 
fashion of this world passes away, not only shall God remain, but His servants 
also, expressing himself thus in the 101st Psalm: "In the beginning, Thou; O 
Lord, hast founded the earth, and the heavens are the works of Thy hands. They 
shall perish, but Thou shalt endure, and all shall wax old as a garment; and as 
a vesture Thou shalt change them, and they shall be changed: but Thou art the 
same, and Thy years shall not fail. The children of Thy servants shall continue, 
and their seed shall be established for ever; " 
)pointing out plainly what things they are that pass away, and who it is that 
doth endure for ever God, together with His servants. And in like manner Esaias 
says: "Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look upon the earth beneath; for 
the heaven has been set together as smoke, and the earth shall wax old like a 
garment, and they who dwell therein shall die in like manner. But my salvation 
shall be for ever, and my righteousness shall not pass away." 


Chapter IV.-Answer to Another 
  Objection, Showing that the Destruction of Jerusalem, Which Was the City of 
  the Great King, Diminished Nothing from the Supreme Majesty' And Power of God, 
  for that This Destruction Was Put in Execution by the Most Wise Counsel of the 
  Same God.
1. Further, also, concerning Jerusalem and the Lord, they venture to assert 
that, if it had been "the city of the great King," 
it would not have been deserted. 
This is just as if any one should say, that if straw were a creation of God, it 
would never part company with the wheat; and that the vine twigs, if made by 
God, never would be lopped away and deprived of the clusters. But as these [vine 
twigs] have not been originally made for their own sake, but for that of the 
fruit growing upon them, which being come to maturity and taken away, they are 
left behind, and those which do not conduce to fructification are lopped off 
altogether; so also [was it with] Jerusalem, which had in herself borne the yoke 
of bondage (under which man was reduced, who in former times was not subject to 
God when death was reigning, and being subdued, became a fit subject for 
liberty), when the fruit of liberty had come, and reached maturity, and been 
reaped and stored in the barn, and when those which had the power to produce 
fruit had been carried away from her [i.e., from Jerusalem], and scattered 
throughout all the world. Even as Esaias saith, "The children of Jacob shall 
strike root, and Israel shall flourish, and the whole world shall be filled with 
his fruit." 
The fruit, therefore, having been sown throughout all the world, she (Jerusalem) 
was deservedly forsaken, and those things which had formerly brought forth fruit 
abundantly were taken away; for from these, according to the flesh, were Christ 
and the apostles enabled to bring forth fruit. But now these are no longer 
useful for bringing forth fruit. For all things which have a beginning in time 
must of course have an end in time also.
2. Since, then, the law originated with Moses, it terminated with John as a 
necessary consequence. Christ had come to fulfil it: wherefore "the law and the 
prophets were" with them "until John." 
And therefore Jerusalem, taking its commencement from David, 
and fulfilling its own times, must have an end of legislation 
when the new covenant was revealed. For God does all things by measure and in 
order; nothing is unmeasured with Him, because nothing is out of order. Well 
spake he, who said that the unmeasurable Father was Himself subjected to measure 
in the Son; for the Son is the measure of the Father, since He also comprehends 
Him. But that the administration of them (the Jews) was temporary, Esaias says: 
"And the daughter of Zion shall be left as a cottage in a vineyard, and as a 
lodge in a garden of cucumbers." 
And when shall these things be left behind? Is it not when the fruit shall be 
taken away, and the leaves alone shall be left, which now have no power of 
producing fruit?
3. But why do we speak of Jerusalem, since, indeed, the fashion of the whole 
world must also pass away, when the time of its disappearance has come, in order 
that the fruit indeed may be gathered into the garner, but the chaff, left 
behind, may be consumed by fire? "For the day of the Lord cometh as a burning 
furnace, and all sinners shall be stubble, they who do evil things, and the day 
shall burn them up." 
Now, who this Lord is that brings such a day about, John the Baptist points out, 
when he says of Christ, "He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire, 
having His fan in His hand to cleanse His floor; and He will gather His fruit 
into the garner, but the chaff He will burn up with unquenchable fire." 
For He who makes the chaff and He who makes the wheat are not different persons, 
but one and the same, who judges them, that is, separates them. But the wheat 
and the chaff, being inanimate and irrational, have been made such by nature. 
But man, being endowed with reason, and in this respect like to God, having been 
made free in his will, and with power over himself, is himself the cause to 
himself, that sometimes he becomes wheat, and sometimes chaff. Wherefore also he 
shall be justly condemned, because, having been created a rational being, he 
lost the true rationality, and living irrationally, opposed the righteousness of 
God, giving himself over to every earthly spirit, and serving all lusts; as says 
the prophet, "Man, being in honour, did not understand: he was assimilated to 
senseless beasts, and made like to them." 


Chapter V.-The Author Returns to His 
  Former Argument, and Shows that There Was But One God Announced by the Law and 
  Prophets, Whom Christ Confesses as His Father, and Who, Through His Word, One 
  Living God with Him, Made Himself Known to Men in Both 
Covenants.
1. God, therefore, is one and the same, who rolls up the heaven as a book, 
and renews the face of the earth; who made the things of time. for man, so that 
coming to maturity in them, he may produce the fruit of immortality; and who, 
through His kindness, also bestows [upon him] eternal things, "that in the ages 
to come He may show the exceeding riches of His grace; " 
who was announced by the law and the prophets, whom Christ confessed as His 
Father. Now He is the Creator, and He it is who is God over all, as Esaias says, 
"I am witness, saith the Lord God, and my servant whom I have chosen, that ye 
may know, and believe, and understand that I AM. Before me there was no other 
God, neither shall be after me. I am God, and besides me there is no Saviour. I 
have proclaimed, and I have saved." 
And again: "I myself am the first God, and I am above things to come." 
For neither in an ambiguous, nor arrogant, nor boastful manner, does He say 
these things; but since it was impossible, without God, to come to a knowledge 
of God, He teaches men, through His Word, to know God. To those, therefore, who 
are ignorant of these matters, and on this account imagine that they have 
discovered another Father, justly does one say, "Ye do err, not knowing the 
Scriptures, nor the power of God." 

2. For our Lord and Master, in the answer which He gave to the Sadducees, who 
say that there is no resurrection, and who do therefore dishonour God, and lower 
the credit of the law, did both indicate a resurrection, and reveal God, saying 
to them, "Ye do err, not knowing the Scriptures, nor the power of God." "For, 
touching the resurrection of the dead," He says, "have ye not read that which 
was spoken by God, saying, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the 
God of Jacob? 
And He added, "He is not the God of the dead, but of the living; for all live to 
Him." By these arguments He unquestionably made it clear, that He who spake to 
Moses out of the bush, and declared Himself to be the God of the fathers, He is 
the God of the living. For who is the God of the living unless He who is God, 
and above whom there is no other God? Whom also Daniel the prophet, when Cyrus 
king of the Persians said to him, "Why dost thou not worship Bel? " 
did proclaim, saying, "Because I do not worship idols made with hands, but the 
living God, who established the heaven and the earth and has dominion over all 
flesh." Again did he say, "I will adore the Lord my God, because He is the 
living God." He, then, who was adored by the prophets as the living God, He is 
the God of the living; and His Word is He who also spake to Moses, who also put 
the Sadducees to silence, who also bestowed the gift of resurrection, thus 
revealing [both] truths to those who are blind, that is, the resurrection and 
God [in His true character]. For if He be not the God of the dead, but of the 
living, yet was called the God of the fathers who were sleeping, they do 
indubitably live to God, and have not passed out of existence, since they are 
children of the resurrection. But our Lord is Himself the resurrection, as He 
does Himself declare, "I am the resurrection and the life." 
But the fathers are His children; for it is said by the prophet: "Instead of thy 
fathers, thy children have been made to thee." 
Christ Himself, therefore, together with the Father, is the God of the living, 
who spake to Moses, and who was also manifested to the fathers.
3. And teaching this very thing, He said to the Jews: "Your father Abraham 
rejoiced that he should see my day; and he saw it, and was glad" 
What is intended? "Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for 
righteousness." 
In the first place, [he believed] that He was the maker of heaven and earth, the 
only God; and in the next place, that He would make his seed as the stars of 
heaven. This is what is meant by Paul, [when he says, ] "as lights in the 
world." 
Righteously, therefore, having left his earthly kindred, he followed the Word of 
God, walking as a pilgrim with the Word, that he might [afterwards] have his 
abode with the Word.
4. Righteously also the apostles, being of the race of Abraham, left the ship 
and their father, and followed the Word. Righteously also do we, possessing the 
same faith as Abraham, and taking up the cross as Isaac did the wood 
follow Him. For in Abraham man had learned beforehand, and had been accustomed 
to follow the Word of God. For Abraham, according to his faith, followed the 
command of the Word of God, and with a ready mind delivered up, as a sacrifice 
to God, his only-begotten and beloved son, in order that God also might be 
pleased to offer up for all his seed His own beloved and only-begotten Son, as a 
sacrifice for our redemption.
5. Since, therefore, Abraham was a prophet and saw in the Spirit the day of 
the Lord's coming, and the dispensation of His suffering, through whom both he 
himself and all who, following the example of his faith, trust in God, should be 
saved, he rejoiced exceedingly. The Lord, therefore, was not unknown to Abraham, 
whose day he desired to see; 
nor, again, was the Lord's Father, for he had learned from the Word of the Lord, 
and believed Him; wherefore it was accounted to him by the Lord for 
righteousness. For faith towards God justifies a man; and therefore he said, "I 
will stretch forth my hand to the most high God, who made the heaven and the 
earth." 
All these truths, however, do those holding perverse opinions endeavour to 
overthrow, because of one passage, which they certainly do not understand 
correctly.

Chapter VI.-Explanation of the Words 
  of Christ, "No Man Knoweth the Father, But the Son," Etc.; Which Words the 
  Heretics Misinterpret. Proof That, by the Father Revealing the Son, and by the 
  Son Being Revealed, the Father Was Never Unknown.
1. For the Lord, revealing Himself to His disciples, that He Himself is the 
Word, who imparts knowledge of the Father, and reproving the Jews, who imagined 
that they, had [the knowledge of] God, while they nevertheless rejected His 
Word, through whom God is made known, declared, "No man knoweth the Son, but the 
Father; neither knoweth any man the Father, save the Son, and he to whom the Son 
has willed to reveal [Him]." 
Thus hath Matthew set it down, and Luke in like manner, and Mark 
the very same; for John omits this passage. They, however, who would be wiser 
than the apostles, write [the verse] in the following manner: "No man 
knew the Father, but the Son; nor the Son, but the Father, and he to whom 
the Son has willed to reveal [Him]; "and they explain it as if the true God were 
known to none prior to our Lord's advent; and that God who was announced by the 
prophets, they allege not to be the Father of Christ.
2. But if Christ did then [only] begin to have existence when He came [into 
the world] as man, and [if] the Father did remember [only] in the times of 
Tiberius Caesar to provide for [the wants of] men, and His Word was shown to 
have not always coexisted with His creatures; [it may be remarked that] neither 
then was it necessary that another God should be proclaimed, but [rather] that 
the reasons for so great carelessness and neglect on His part should be made the 
subject of investigation. For it is fitting that no such question should arise, 
and gather such strength, that it would indeed both change God, and destroy our 
faith in that Creator who supports us by means of His creation. For as we do 
direct our faith towards the Son, so also should we possess a firm and 
immoveable love towards the Father. In his book against Marcion, Justin 
does well say: "I would not have believed the Lord Himself, if He had announced 
any other than He who is our framer, maker, and nourisher. But because the 
only-begotten Son came to us from the one God, who both made this world and 
formed us, and contains and administers all things, summing up His own handiwork 
in Himself, my faith towards Him is steadfast, and my love to the Father 
immoveable, God bestowing both upon us."
3. For no one can know the Father, unless through the Word of God, that is, 
unless by the Son revealing [Him]; neither can he have knowledge of the Son, 
unless through the good pleasure of the Father. But the Son performs the good 
pleasure of the Father; for the Father sends, and the Son is sent, and comes. 
And His Word knows that His Father is, as far as regards us, invisible and 
infinite; and since He cannot be declared [by any one else], He does Himself 
declare Him to us; and, on the other hand, it is the Father alone who knows His 
own Word. And both these truths has our Lord declared. Wherefore the Son reveals 
the knowledge of the Father through His own manifestation. For the manifestation 
of the Son is the knowledge of the Father; for all things are manifested through 
the Word. In order, therefore, that we might know that the Son who came is He 
who imparts to those believing on Him a knowledge of the Father, He said to His 
disciples: 
"No man knoweth the Son but the Father, nor the Father but the Son, and those to 
whomsoever the Son shall reveal Him; "thus setting Himself forth and the Father 
as He [really] is, that we may not receive any other Father, except Him who is 
revealed by the Son.
4. But this [Father] is the Maker of heaven and earth, as is shown from His 
words; and not he, the false father, who has been invented by Marcion, or by 
Valentinus, or by Basilides, or by Carpocrates, or by Simon, or by the rest of 
the "Gnostics," falsely so called. For none of these was the Son of God; but 
Christ Jesus our Lord [was], against whom they set their teaching in opposition, 
and have the daring to preach an unknown God. But they ought to hear [this] 
against themselves: How is it that He is unknown, who is known by them? for, 
whatever is known even by a few, is not unknown. But the Lord did not say that 
both the Father and the Son could not be known at all (in totum), for in 
that case His advent would have been superfluous. For why did He come hither? 
Was it that He should say to us, "Never mind seeking after God; for He is 
unknown, and ye shall not find Him; "as also the disciples of Valentinus falsely 
declare that Christ said to their Aeons? But this is indeed vain. For the Lord 
taught us that no man is capable of knowing God, unless he be taught of God; 
that is, that God cannot be known without God: but that this is the express will 
of the Father, that God should be known. For they shall know 
Him to whomsoever the Son has revealed Him.
5. And for this purpose did the Father reveal the Son, that through His 
instrumentality He might be manifested to all, and might receive those righteous 
ones who believe in Him into incorruption and everlasting enjoyment (now, to 
believe in Him is to do His will); but He shall righteously shut out into the 
darkness which they have chosen for themselves, those who do not believe, and 
who do consequently avoid His light. The Father therefore has revealed Himself 
to all, by making His Word visible to all; and, conversely, the Word has 
declared to all the Father and the Son, since He has become visible to all. And 
therefore the righteous judgment of God [shall fall] upon all who, like others, 
have seen, but have not, like others, believed.
6. For by means of the creation itself, the Word reveals God the Creator; and 
by means of the world [does He declare] the Lord the Maker of the world; and by 
means of the formation [of man] the Artificer who formed him; and by the Son 
that Father who begat the Son: and these things do indeed address all men in the 
same manner, but all do not in the same way believe them. But by the law and the 
prophets did the Word preach both Himself and the Father alike [to all]; and all 
the people heard Him alike, but all did not alike believe. And through the Word 
Himself who had been made visible and palpable, was the Father shown forth, 
although all did not equally believe in Him; but all saw the Father in the Son: 
for the Father is the invisible of the Son, but the Son the visible of the 
Father. And for this reason all spake with Christ when He was present [upon 
earth], and they named Him God. Yea, even the demons exclaimed, on beholding the 
Son: "We know Thee who Thou art, the Holy One of God." 
And the devil looking at Him, and tempting Him, said: "If Thou art the Son of 
God; " 
-all thus indeed seeing and speaking of the Son and the Father, but all not 
believing [in them].
7. For it was fitting that the truth should receive testimony from all, and 
should become [a means of] judgment for the salvation indeed of those who 
believe, but for the condemnation of those who believe not; that all should be 
fairly judged, and that the faith in the Father and Son should be approved by 
all, that is, that it should be established by all [as the one means of 
salvation], receiving testimony from all, both from those belonging to it, since 
they are its friends, and by those having no connection with it, though they are 
its enemies. For that evidence is true, and cannot be gainsaid, which elicits 
even from its adversaries striking 
a testimonies in its behalf; they being convinced with respect to the matter in 
hand by their own plain contemplation of it, and bearing testimony to it, as 
well as declaring it. 
But after a while they break forth into enmity, and become accusers [of what 
they had approved], and are desirous that their own testimony should not be 
[regarded as] true. He, therefore, who was known, was not a different being from 
Him who declared "No man knoweth the Father," but one and the same, the Father 
making all things subject to Him; while He received testimony from all that He 
was very man, and that He was very God, from the Father, from the Spirit, from 
angels, from the creation itself, from men, from apostate spirits and demons, 
from the enemy, and last of all, from death itself. But the Son, administering 
all things for the Father, works from the beginning even to the end, and without 
Him no man can attain the knowledge of God. For the Son is the knowledge of the 
Father; but the knowledge of the Son is in the Father, and has been revealed 
through the Son; and this was the reason why the Lord declared: "No man knoweth 
the Son, but the Father; nor the Father, save the Son, and those to whomsoever 
the Son shall reveal [Him]." 
For "shall reveal" was said not with reference to the future alone, as if then 
[only] the Word had begun to manifest the Father when He was born of Mary, but 
it applies indifferently throughout all time. For the Son, being present with 
His own handiwork from the beginning, reveals the Father to all; to whom He 
wills, and when He wills, and as the Father wills. Wherefore, then, in all 
things, and through all things, there is one God, the Father, and one Word, and 
one Son, and one Spirit, and one salvation to all who believe in Him.

Chapter VII.-Recapitulation of the 
  Foregoing Argument, Showing that Abraham, Through the Revelation of the Word, 
  Knew the Father, and the Coming of the Son of God. For This Cause, He Rejoiced 
  to See the Day of Christ, When the Promises Made to Him Should Be Fulfilled. 
  The Fruit of This Rejoicing Has Flowed to Posterity, Viz., to Those Who are 
  Partakers in the Faith of Abraham, But Not to the Jews Who Reject the Word of 
  God.
1. Therefore Abraham also, knowing the. Father through the Word, who made 
heaven and earth, confessed Him to be God; and having learned, by an 
announcement [made to him], that the Son of God would be a man among men, by 
whose advent his seed should be as the stars of heaven, he desired to see that 
day, so that he might himself also embrace Christ; and, seeing it through the 
spirit of prophecy, he rejoiced. 
Wherefore Simeon also, one of his descendants, carried fully out the rejoicing 
of the patriarch, and said: "Lord, now lettest Thou Thy servant depart in peace. 
For mine eyes have seen Thy salvation, which Thou hast prepared before the face 
of all people: a light for the revelation of the Gentiles, 
and the glory of the people Israel." 
And the angels, in like manner, announced tidings of great joy to the shepherds 
who were keeping watch by night. 
Moreover, Mary said, "My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced 
in God my salvation; " 
-the rejoicing of Abraham descending upon those who sprang from him,-those, 
namely, who were watching, and who beheld Christ, and believed in Him; while, on 
the other hand, there was a reciprocal rejoicing which passed backwards from the 
children to Abraham, who did also desire to see the day of Christ's coming. 
Rightly, then, did our Lord bear witness to him, saying, "Your father Abraham 
rejoiced to see my day; and he saw it, and was glad."
2. For not alone upon Abraham's account did He say these things, but also 
that He might point out how all who have known God from the beginning, and have 
foretold the advent of Christ, have received the revelation from the Son 
Himself; who also in the last times was made visible and passable, and spake 
with the human race, that He might from the stones raise up children unto 
Abraham, and fulfil the promise which God had given him, and that He might make 
his seed as the stars of heaven, 
as John the Baptist says: "For God is able from these stones to raise up 
children unto Abraham." 
Now, this Jesus did by drawing us off from the religion of stones, and bringing 
us over from hard and fruitless cogitations, and establishing in us a faith like 
to Abraham. As Paul does also testify, saying that we are children of Abraham 
because of the similarity of our faith, and the promise of inheritance. 

3. He is therefore one and the same God, who called Abraham and gave him the 
promise. But He is the Creator, who does also through Christ prepare lights in 
the world, [namely] those who believe from among the Gentiles. And He says, "Ye 
are the light of the world; " 
that is, as the stars of heaven. Him, therefore, I have rightly shown to be 
known by no man, unless by the Son, and to whomsoever the Son shall reveal Him. 
But the Son reveals the Father to all to whom He wills that He should be known; 
and neither without the goodwill of the Father nor without the agency of the 
Son, can any man know God. Wherefore did the Lord say to His disciples, "I am 
the way, the truth, and the life and no man cometh unto the Father but by Me. If 
ye had known Me, ye would have known My Father also: and from henceforth ye have 
both known Him, and have seen Him." 
From these words it is evident, that He is known by the Son, that is, by the 
Word.
4. Therefore have the Jews departed from God, in not receiving His Word, but 
imagining that they could know the Father [apart] by Himself, without the Word, 
that is, without the Son; they being ignorant of that God who spake in human 
shape to Abraham, 
and again to Moses, saying, "I have surely seen the affliction of My people in 
Egypt, and I have come down to deliver them." 
For the Son, who is the Word of God, arranged these things beforehand from the 
beginning, the Father being in no want of angels, in order that He might call 
the creation into being, and form man, for whom also the creation was made; nor, 
again, standing in need of any instrumentality for the framing of created 
things, or for the ordering of those things which had reference to man; while, 
[at the same time, ] He has a vast and unspeakable number of servants. For His 
offspring and His similitude 
do minister to Him in every respect; that is, the Son and the Holy Spirit, the 
Word and Wisdom; whom all the angels serve, and to whom they are subject. Vain, 
therefore, ark those who, because of that declaration, "No man knoweth the 
Father, but the Son," 
do introduce another unknown Father.

Chapter VIII.-Vain Attempts of 
  Marcion and His Followers, Who Exclude Abraham from the Salvation Bestowed by 
  Christ, Who Liberated Not Only Abraham, But the Seed of Abraham, by Fulfilling 
  and Not Destroying the Law When He Healed on the Sabbath-Day.
1. Vain, too, is [the effort of] Marcion and his followers when they [seek 
to] exclude Abraham from the inheritance, to whom the Spirit through many men, 
and now by Paul, bears witness, that "he believed God, and it was imputed unto 
him for righteousness." 
And the Lord [also bears witness to him, ] in the first place, indeed, by 
raising up children to him from the stones, and making his seed as the stars of 
heaven, saying, "They shall come from the east and from the west, from the north 
and from the south, and shall recline with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob in the 
kingdom of heaven; " 
and then again by saying to the Jews, "When ye shall see Abraham, and Isaac, and 
Jacob, and all the prophets in the kingdom of heaven, but you yourselves cast 
out." 
This, then, is a clear point, that those who disallow his salvation, and frame 
the idea of another God besides Him who made the promise to Abraham, are outside 
the kingdom of God, and are disinherited from [the gift of] incorruption, 
setting at naught and blaspheming God, who introduces, through Jesus Christ, 
Abraham to the kingdom of heaven, and his seed, that is, the Church, upon which 
also is conferred the adoption and the inheritance promised to Abraham.
2. For the Lord vindicated Abraham's posterity by loosing them from bondage 
and calling them to salvation, as He did in the case of the woman whom He 
healed, saying openly to those who had not faith like Abraham, "Ye 
hypocrites, 
doth not each one of you on the Sabbath-days loose his ox or his ass, and lead 
him away to watering? And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, 
whom Satan hath bound these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the 
Sabbath-days? " 
It is clear therefore, that He loosed and vivified those who believe in Him as 
Abraham did, doing nothing contrary to the law when He healed upon the 
Sabbath-day. For the law did not prohibit men from being healed upon the 
Sabbaths; [on the contrary, ] it even circumcised them upon that day, and gave 
command that the offices should be performed by the priests for the people; yea, 
it did not disallow the healing even of dumb animals. Both at Siloam and on 
frequent subsequent 
occasions, did He perform cures upon the Sabbath; and for this reason many used 
to resort to Him on the Sabbath-days. For the law commanded them to abstain from 
every servile work, that is, from all grasping after wealth which is procured by 
trading and by other worldly business; but it exhorted them to attend to the 
exercises of the soul, which consist in reflection, and to addresses of a 
beneficial kind for their neighbours' benefit. And therefore the Lord reproved 
those who unjustly blamed Him for having healed upon the Sabbath-days. For He 
did not make void, but fulfilled the law, by performing the offices of the high 
priest, propitiating God for men, and cleansing the lepers, healing the sick, 
and Himself suffering death, that exiled man might go forth from condemnation, 
and might return without fear to his own inheritance.
3. And again, the law did not forbid those who were hungry on the 
Sabbath-days to take food lying ready at hand: it did, however, forbid them to 
reap and to gather into the barn. And therefore did the Lord say to those who 
were blaming His disciples because they plucked and ate the ears of corn, 
rubbing them in their hands, "Have ye not read this, what David did, when 
himself was an hungered; how he went into the house of God, and ate the 
shew-bread, and gave to those who were with him; which it is not lawful to eat, 
but for the priests alone? " 
justifying His disciples by the words of the law, and pointing out that it was 
lawful for the priests to act freely. For David had been appointed a priest by 
God, although Saul persecuted him. For all the righteous possess the sacerdotal 
rank. 
And all the apostles of the Lord are priests, who do inherit here neither lands 
nor houses, but serve God and the altar continually. Of whom Moses also says in 
Deuteronomy, when blessing Levi, "Who said unto his father and to his mother, I 
have not known thee; neither did he acknowledge his brethren, and he 
disinherited his own sons: he kept Thy commandments, and observed Thy 
covenant." 
But who are they that have left father and mother, and have said adieu to all 
their neighbours, on account of the word of God and His covenant, unless the 
disciples of the Lord? Of whom again Moses says, "They shall have no 
inheritance, for the Lord Himself is their inheritance." 
And again, "The priests the Levites shall have no part in the whole tribe of 
Levi, nor substance with Israel; their substance is the offerings 
(fructifications) of the Lord: these shall they eat." 
Wherefore also Paul says, "I do not seek after a gift, but I seek after 
fruit." 
To His disciples He said, who had a priesthood of the Lord, 
to whom it was lawful when hungry to eat the ears of corn, 
"For the workman is worthy of his meat." 
And the priests in the temple profaned the Sabbath, and were blameless. 
Wherefore, then, were they blameless? Because when in the temple they were not 
engaged in secular affairs, but in the service of the Lord, fulfilling the law, 
but not going beyond it, as that man did, who of his own accord carded dry wood 
into the camp of God, and was justly stoned to death. 
"For every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit shall be hewn down, and cast 
into the fire; " 
and "whosoever shall defile the temple of God, him shall God defile." 


Chapter IX.-There is But One Author, 
  and One End to Both Covenants.
1. All things therefore are of one and the same substance, that is, from one 
and the same God; as also the Lord says to the disciples "Therefore every 
scribe, which is instructed unto the kingdom of heaven, is like unto a man that 
is an householder, which bringeth forth out of his treasure things new and 
old." 
He did not teach that he who brought forth the old was one, and he that brought 
forth the new, another; but that they were one and the same. For the Lord is the 
good man of the house, who rules the tire house of His Father; and who delivers 
a law suited both for slaves and those who are as yet undisciplined; and gives 
fitting precepts to those that are free, and have been justified by faith, as 
well as throws His own inheritance open to those that are sons. And He called 
His disciples "scribes" and "teachers of the kingdom of heaven; "of whom also He 
elsewhere says to the Jews: "Behold, I send unto you wise men, and scribes, and 
teachers; and some of them ye shall kill, and persecute from city to 
city." 
Now, without contradiction, He means by those things which are brought forth 
from the treasure new and old, the two covenants; the old, that giving of the 
law which took place formerly; and He points out as the new, that manner of life 
required by the Gospel, of which David says, "Sing unto the Lord a new song; 
" 
and Esaias, "Sing unto the Lord a new hymn. His beginning (initium), His 
name is glorified from the height of the earth: they declare His powers in the 
isles." 
And Jeremiah says: "Behold, I will make a new covenant, not as I made with your 
fathers" 
in Mount Horeb. But one and the same householder produced both covenants, the 
Word of God, our Lord Jesus Christ, who spake with both Abraham and Moses, and 
who has restored us anew to liberty, and has multiplied that grace which is from 
Himself.
2. He declares: "For in this place is One greater than the temple." 
But [the words] greater and less are not applied to those things 
which have nothing in common between themselves, and are of an opposite nature, 
and mutually repugnant; but are used in the case of those of the same substance, 
and which possess properties in common, but merely differ in number and size; 
such as water from water, and light from light, and grace from grace. Greater, 
therefore, is that legislation which has been given in order liberty than that 
given in order to bondage; and therefore it has also been diffused, not 
throughout one nation [only], but over the whole world. For one and the same 
Lord, who is greater than the temple, greater than Solomon, and greater than 
Jonah, confers gifts upon men, that is, His own presence, and the resurrection 
from the dead; but He does not change God, nor proclaim another Father, but that 
very same one, who always has more to measure out to those of His household. And 
as their love towards God increases, He bestows more and greater [gifts]; as 
also the Lord said to His disciples: "Ye shall see greater things than 
these." 
And Paul declares: "Not that I have already attained, or that I am justified, or 
already have been made perfect. For we know in part, and we prophesy in part; 
but when that which is perfect has come, the things which are in part shall be 
done away." 
As, therefore, when that which is perfect is come, we shall not see another 
Father, but Him whom we now desire to see (for "blessed are the pure in heart: 
for they shall see God" 
); neither shall we look for another Christ and Son of God, but Him who [was 
born] of the Virgin Mary, who also suffered, in whom too we trust, and whom we 
love; as Esaias says: "And they shall say in that day, Behold our Lord God, in 
whom we have trusted, and we have rejoiced in our salvation; " 
and Peter says in his Epistle: "Whom, not seeing, ye love; in whom, though now 
ye see Him not, ye have believed, ye shall rejoice with joy unspeakable; 
" 
neither do we receive another Holy Spirit, besides Him who is with us, and who 
cries, "Abba, Father; " 
and we shall make increase in the very same things [as now], and shall make 
progress, so that no longer through a glass, or by means of enigmas, but face to 
face, we shall enjoy the gifts of God;-so also now, receiving more than the 
temple, and more than Solomon, that is, the advent of the Son of God, we have 
not been taught another God besides the Framer and the Maker of all, who has 
been pointed out to us from the beginning; nor another Christ, the Son of God, 
besides Him who was foretold by the prophets.
3. For the new covenant having been known and preached by the prophets, He 
who was to carry it out according to the good pleasure of the Father was also 
preached; having been revealed to men as God pleased; that they might always 
make progress through believing in Him, and by means of the [successive] 
covenants, should gradually attain to perfect salvation. 
For there is one salvation and one God; but the precepts which form the man are 
numerous, and the steps which lead man to God are not a few. It is allowable for 
an earthly and temporal king, though he is [but] a man, to grant to his subjects 
greater advantages at times: shall not this then be lawful for God, since He is 
[ever] the same, and is always willing to confer a greater [degree of] grace 
upon the human race, and to honour continually with many gifts those who please 
Him? But if this be to make progress, [namely, ] to find out another Father 
besides Him who was preached from the beginning; and again, besides him who is 
imagined to have been discovered in the second place, to find out a third 
other,-then the progress of this man will consist in his also proceeding from a 
third to a fourth; and from this, again, to another and another: and thus he who 
thinks that he is always making progress of such a kind, will never rest in one 
God. For, being driven away from Him who truly is [God], and being turned 
backwards, he shall be for ever seeking, yet shall never find out God; 
but shall continually swim in an abyss without limits, unless, being converted 
by repentance, he return to the place from which he had been cast out, 
confessing one God, the Father, the Creator, and believing [in Him] who was 
declared by the law and the prophets, who was borne witness to by Christ, as He 
did Himself declare to those who were accusing His disciples of not observing 
the tradition of the elders: "Why do ye make void the law of God by reason of 
your tradition? For God said, Honour thy father and mother; and, Whosoever 
curseth father or mother, let him die the death." 
And again, He says to them a second time: "And ye have made void the word of 
God 
by reason of your tradition; "Christ confessing in the plainest manner Him to be 
Father and God, who said in the law, "Honour thy father and mother; that it may 
be well with thee." 
For the true God did confess the commandment of the law as the word of God, and 
called no one else God besides His own Father.

Chapter X.-The Old Testament 
  Scriptures, and Those Written by Moses in Particular, Do Everywhere Make 
  Mention of the Son of God, and Foretell His Advent and Passion. From This Fact 
  It Follows that They Were Inspired by One and the Same God.
1. Wherefore also John does appropriately relate that the Lord said to the 
Jews: "Ye search the Scriptures, in which ye think ye have eternal life; these 
are they which testify of me. And ye are not willing to come unto Me, that ye 
may have life." 
How therefore did the Scriptures testify of Him, unless they were from one and 
the same Father, instructing men beforehand as to the advent of His Son, and 
foretelling the salvation brought in by Him? "For if ye had believed Moses, ye 
would also have believed Me; for he wrote of Me; " 
[saying this, ] no doubt, because the Son of God is implanted everywhere 
throughout his writings: at one time, indeed, speaking with Abraham, when about 
to eat with him; at another time with Noah, giving to him the dimensions [of the 
ark]; at another; inquiring after Adam; at another, bringing down judgment upon 
the Sodomites; and again, when He becomes visible, 
and directs Jacob on his journey, and speaks with Moses from the bush. 
And it would be endless to recount [the occasions] upon which the Son of God is 
shown forth by Moses. Of the day of His passion, too, he was not ignorant; but 
foretold Him, after a figurative manner, by the name given to the 
passover; 
and at that very festival, which had been proclaimed such a long time previously 
by Moses, did our Lord suffer, thus fulfilling the passover. And he did not 
describe the day only, but the place also, and the time of day at which the 
sufferings ceased, 
and the sign of the setting of the sun, saying: "Thou mayest not sacrifice the 
passover within any other of thy cities which the Lord God gives thee; but in 
the place which the Lord thy God shall choose that His name be called on there, 
thou shalt sacrifice the passover at even, towards the setting of the 
sun." 

2. And already he had also declared His advent, saying, "There shall not fail 
a chief in Judah, nor a leader from his loins, until He come for whom it is laid 
up, and He is the hope of the nations; binding His foal to the vine, and His 
ass's colt to the creeping ivy. He shall wash His stole in wine, and His upper 
garment in the blood of the grape; His eyes shall be more joyous than 
wine, 
and His teeth whiter than milk." 
For, let those who have the reputation of investigating everything, inquire at 
what time a prince and leader failed out of Judah, and who is the hope of the 
nations, who also is the vine, what was the ass's colt [referred to as] His, 
what the clothing, and what the eyes, what the teeth, and what the wine, and 
thus let them investigate every one of the points mentioned; and they shall find 
that there was none other announced than our Lord, Christ Jesus. Wherefore 
Moses, when chiding the ingratitude of the people, said, "Ye infatuated people, 
and unwise, do ye thus requite the Lord? " 
And again, he indicates that He who from the beginning founded and created them, 
the Word, who also redeems and vivifies us in the last times, is shown as 
hanging on the tree, and they will not believe on Him. For he says, "And thy 
life shall be hanging before thine eyes, and thou wilt not believe thy 
life." 
And again, "Has not this same one thy Father owned thee, and made thee, and 
created thee? " 


Chapter XI.-The Old Prophets and 
  Righteous Men Knew Beforehand of the Advent of Christ, and Earnestly Desired 
  to See and Hear Him, He Revealing Himself in the Scriptures by the Holy Ghost, 
  and Without Any Change in Himself, Enriching Men Day by Day with Benefits, But 
  Conferring Them in Greater Abundance on Later Than on Former 
  Generations.
1. But that it was not only the prophets and many righteous men, who, 
foreseeing through the Holy Spirit His advent, prayed that they might attain to 
that period in which they should see their Lord face to face, and hear His 
words, the Lord has made manifest, when He says to His disciples, "Many prophets 
and righteous men have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not 
seen them; and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard 
them." 
In what way, then, did they desire both to hear and to see, unless they had 
foreknowledge of His future advent? But how could they have foreknown it, unless 
they had previously received foreknowledge from Himself? And how do the 
Scriptures testify of Him, unless all things had ever been revealed and shown to 
believers by one and the same God through the Word; He at one time conferring 
with His creature, and at another pro-pounding His law; at one time, again, 
reproving, at another exhorting, and then setting free His servant, and adopting 
him as a son (in filium); and, at the proper time, bestowing an 
incorruptible inheritance, for the purpose of bringing man to perfection? For He 
formed him for growth and increase, as the Scripture says: "Increase and 
multiply." 

2. And in this respect God differs from man, that God indeed makes, but man 
is made; and truly, He who makes is always the same; but that which is made must 
receive both beginning, and middle, and addition, and increase. And God does 
indeed create after a skilful manner, while, [as regards] man, he is 
created skilfully. God also is truly perfect in all things, Himself equal and 
similar to Himself, as He is all light, and all mind, and all substance, and the 
fount of all good; but man receives advancement and increase towards God. For as 
God is always the same, so also man, when found in God, shall always go on 
towards God. For neither does God at any time cease to confer benefits upon, or 
to enrich man; nor does man ever cease from receiving the benefits, and being 
enriched by God. For the receptacle of His goodness, and the instrument of His 
glorification, is the man who is grateful to Him that made him; and again, the 
receptacle of His just judgment is the ungrateful man, who both despises his 
Maker and is not subject to His Word; who has promised that He will give very 
much to those always bringing forth fruit, and more [and more] to those who have 
the Lord's money. "Well done," He says, "good and faithful servant: because thou 
hast been faithful in little, I will appoint thee over many things; enter thou 
into the joy of thy Lord." 
The Lord Himself thus promises very much.
3. As, therefore, He has promised to give very much to those who do now bring 
forth fruit, according to the gift of His grace, but not according to the 
changeableness of "knowledge; "for the Lord remains the same, and the same 
Father is revealed; thus, therefore, has the one and the same Lord granted, by 
means of His advent, a greater gift of grace to those of a later period, than 
what He had granted to those under the Old Testament dispensation. For they 
indeed used to hear, by means of [His] servants, that the King would come, and 
they rejoiced to a certain extent, inasmuch as they hoped for His coming; but 
those who have beheld Him actually present, and have obtained liberty, and been 
made partakers of His gifts, do possess a greater amount of grace, and a higher 
degree of exultation, rejoicing because of the King's arrival: as also David 
says, "My soul shall rejoice in the Lord; it shall be glad in His 
salvation." 
And for this cause, upon His entrance into Jerusalem, all those who were in the 
way 
recognised David their king in His sorrow of soul, and spread their garments for 
Him, and ornamented the way with green boughs, crying out with great joy and 
gladness, "Hosanna to the Son of David; blessed is He that cometh in the name of 
the Lord: hosanna in the highest." 
But to the envious wicked stewards, who circumvented those under them, and ruled 
over those that had no great intelligence, 
and for this reason were unwilling that the king should come, and who said to 
Him, "Hearest thou what these say? "did the Lord reply, "Have ye never read, Out 
of the mouths of babes and sucklings hast Thou perfected praise? " 
-thus pointing out that what had been declared by David concerning the Son of 
God, was accomplished in His own person; and indicating that they were indeed 
ignorant of the meaning of the Scripture and the dispensation of God; but 
declaring that it was Himself who was announced by the prophets asChrist, whose 
name is praised in all the earth, and who perfects praise to His Father from the 
mouth of babes and sucklings; wherefore also His glory has been raised above the 
heavens.
4. If, therefore, the self-same person is present who was announced by the 
prophets, our Lord Jesus Christ, and if His advent has brought in a fuller 
[measure of] grace and greater gifts to those who have received Him, it is plain 
that the Father also is Himself the same who was proclaimed by the prophets, and 
that the Son, on His coming, did not spread the knowledge of another Father, but 
of the same who was preached from the beginning; from whom also He has brought 
down liberty to those who, in a lawful manner, and with a willing mind, and with 
all the heart, do Him service; whereas to scoffers, and to those not subject to 
God, but who follow outward purifications for the praise of men (which 
observances had been given as a type of future things,-the law typifying, as it 
were, certain things in a shadow, and delineating eternal things by temporal, 
celestial by terrestrial), and to those who pretend that they do themselves 
observe more than what has been prescribed, as if preferring their own zeal to 
God Himself, while within they are full of hypocrisy, and covetousness, and all 
wickedness,-[to such] has He assigned everlasting perdition by cutting them off 
from life.

Chapter XII.-It Clearly Appears that 
  There Was But One Author of Both the Old and the New Law, from the Fact that 
  Christ Condemned Traditions and Customs Repugnant to the Former, While He 
  Confirmed Its Most Important Precepts, and Taught that He Was Himself the End 
  of the Mosaic Law.
1. For the tradition of the elders themselves, which they pretended to 
observe from the law, was contrary to the law given by Moses. Wherefore also 
Esaias declares: "Thy dealers mix the wine with water," 
showing that the elders were in the habit of mingling a watered tradition with 
the simple command of God; that is, they set up a spurious law, and one contrary 
to the [true] law; as also the Lord made plain, when He said to them, "Why do ye 
transgress the commandment of God, for the sake of your tradition? " 
For not only by actual transgression did they set the law of God at nought, 
mingling the wine with water; but they also set up their own law in opposition 
to it, which is termed, even to the present day, the pharisaical. In this [law] 
they suppress certain things, add others, and interpret others, again, as they 
think proper, which their teachers use, each one in particular; and desiring to 
uphold these traditions, they were unwilling to be subject to the law of God, 
which prepares them for the coming of Christ. But they did even blame the Lord 
for healing on the Sabbath-days, which, as I have already observed, the law did 
not prohibit. For they did themselves, in one sense, perform acts of healing 
upon the Sabbath-day, when they circumcised a man [on that day]; but they did 
not blame themselves for transgressing the command of God through tradition and 
the aforesaid pharisaical law, and for not keeping the commandment of the law, 
which is the love of God.
2. But that this is the first and greatest commandment, and that the next 
[has respect to love] towards our neighbour, the Lord has taught, when He says 
that the entire law and the prophets hang upon these two commandments. Moreover, 
He did not Himself bring down [from heaven] any other commandment greater than 
this one, but renewed this very same one to His disciples, when He enjoined them 
to love God with all their heart, and others as themselves. But if He had 
descended from another Father, He never would have made use of the first and 
greatest commandment of the law; but He would undoubtedly have endeavoured by 
all means to bring down a greater one than this from the perfect Father, so as 
not to make use of that which had been given by the God of the law. And Paul in 
like manner declares, "Love is the fulfilling of the law: " 
and [he declares] that when all other things have been destroyed, there shall 
remain "faith, hope, and love; but the greatest of all is love; " 
and that apart from the love of God, neither knowledge avails anything, 
nor the understanding of mysteries, nor faith, nor prophecy, but that without 
love all are hollow and vain; moreover, that love makes man perfect; and that he 
who loves God is perfect, both in this world and in that which is to come. For 
we do never cease from loving God; but in proportion as we continue to 
contemplate Him, so much the more do we love Him.
3. As in the law, therefore, and in the Gospel [likewise], the first and 
greatest commandment is, to love the Lord God with the whole heart, and then 
there follows a commandment like to it, to love one's neighbour as one's self; 
the author of the law and the Gospel is shown to be one and the same. For the 
precepts of an absolutely perfect life, since they are the same in each 
Testament, have pointed out [to us] the same God, who certainly has promulgated 
particular laws adapted for each; but the more prominent and the greatest 
[commandments], without which salvation cannot [be attained], He has exhorted 
[us to observe] the same in both.
4. The Lord, too, does not do away with this [God], when He shows that the 
law was not derived from another God, expressing Himself as follows to those who 
were being instructed by Him, to the multitude and to His disciples: "The 
scribes and Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. All, therefore, whatsoever they bid 
you observe, that observe and do; but do not ye after their works: for they say, 
and do not. For they bind heavy burdens, and lay them upon men's shoulders; but 
they themselves will not so much as move them with a finger." 
He therefore did not throw blame upon that law which was given by Moses, 
when He exhorted it to be observed, Jerusalem being as yet in safety; but He did 
throw blame upon those persons, because they repeated indeed the words of the 
law, yet were without love. And for this reason were they held as being 
unrighteous as respects God, and as respects their neighbours. As also Isaiah 
says: "This people honoureth Me with their lips, but their heart is far from Me: 
howbeit in vain do they worship Me, teaching the doctrines and the commandments 
of men." 
He does not call the law given by Moses commandments of men, but the traditions 
of the eiders themselves which they had invented, and in upholding which they 
made the law of God of none effect, and were on this account also not subject to 
His Word. For this is what Paul says concerning these men: "For they, being 
ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about to establish their own 
righteousness, have not submitted themselves to the righteousness of God. For 
Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to every one that 
believeth." 
And how is Christ the end of the law, if He be not also the final Cause of it? 
For He who has brought in the end has Himself also wrought the beginning; and it 
is He who does Himself say to Moses, "I have surely seen the affliction of my 
people which is in Egypt, and I have come down to deliver them; " 
it being customary from the beginning with the Word of God to ascend and descend 
for the purpose of saving those who were in affliction.
5. Now, that the law did beforehand teach mankind the necessity of following 
Christ, He does Himself make manifest, when He replied as follows to him who 
asked Him what he should do that he might inherit eternal life: "If thou wilt 
enter into life, keep the commandments." 
But upon the other asking "Which? "" again the Lord replies: "Do not commit 
adultery, do not kill, do not steal, do not bear false witness, hon-our father 
and mother, and thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself,"-setting as an 
ascending series (velut gradus) before those who wished to follow Him, 
the precepts of the law, as the entrance into life; and What He then said to one 
He said to all. But when the former said, "All these have I done" (and most 
likely he had not kept them, for in that case the Lord would not have said to 
him, "Keep the commandments"), the Lord, exposing his covetousness, said to him, 
"If thou wilt be perfect, go, sell all that thou hast, and distribute to the 
poor; and come, follow me; "promising to those who would act thus, the portion 
belonging to the apostles (apostolorum partem). And He did not preach to 
His followers another God the Father, besides Him who was proclaimed by the law 
from the beginning; nor another Son; nor the Mother, the enthymesis of the Aeon, 
who existed in suffering and apostasy; nor the Pleroma of the thirty Aeons, 
which has been proved vain, and incapable of being believed in; nor that fable 
invented by the other heretics. But He taught that they should obey the 
commandments which God enjoined from the beginning, and do away with their 
former covetousness by good works, 
and follow after Christ. But that possessions distributed to the poor do annul 
former covetousness, Zaccheus made evident, when he said, "Behold, the half of 
my goods I give to the poor; and if I have defrauded any one, I restore 
fourfold." 


Chapter XIII.-Christ Did Not 
  Abrogate the Natural Precepts of the Law, But Rather Fulfilled and Extended 
  Them. He Removed the Yoke and Bondage of the Old Law, So that Mankind, Being 
  Now Set Free, Might Serve God with that Trustful Piety Which Becometh 
  Sons.
1. And that the Lord did not abrogate the natural [precepts] of the law, by 
which man 
is justified, which also those who were justified by faith, and who pleased God, 
did observe previous to the giving of the law, but that He extended and 
fulfilled them, is shown from His words. "For," He remarks, "it has been said to 
them of old time, Do not commit adultery. But I say unto you, That every one who 
hath looked upon a woman to lust after her, hath committed adultery with her 
already in his heart." 
And again: "It has been said, Thou shalt not kill. But I say unto you, Every one 
who is angry with his brother without a cause, shall be in danger of the 
judgment." 
And, "It hath been said, Thou shalt not forswear thyself. But I say unto you, 
Swear not at all; but let your conversation be, Yea, yea, and Nay, nay." 
And other statements of a like nature. For all these do not contain or imply an 
opposition to and an overturning of the [precepts] of the past, as Marcion's 
followers do strenuously maintain; but [they exhibit] a fulfilling and an 
extension of them, as He does Himself declare: "Unless your righteousness shall 
exceed that of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of 
heaven." 
For what meant the excess referred to? In the first place, [we must] believe not 
only in the Father, but also in His Son now revealed; for He it is who leads man 
into fellowship and unity with God. In the next place, [we must] not only say, 
but we must do; for they said, but did not. And [we must] not only abstain from 
evil deeds, but even from the desires after them. Now He did not teach us these 
things as being opposed to the law, but as fulfilling the law, and implanting in 
us the varied righteousness of the law. That would have been contrary to the 
law, if He had commanded His disciples to do anything which the law had 
prohibited. But this which He did command-namely, not only to abstain from 
things forbidden by the law, but even from longing after them-is not contrary to 
[the law], as I have remarked, neither is it the utterance of one destroying the 
law, but of one fulfilling, extending, and affording greater scope to it.
2. For the law, since it was laid down for those in bondage, used to instruct 
the soul by means of those corporeal objects which were of an external nature, 
drawing it, as by a bond, to obey its commandments, that man might learn to 
serve God. But the Word set free the soul, and taught that through it the body 
should be willingly purified. Which having been accomplished, it followed as of 
course, that the bonds of slavery should be removed, to which man had now become 
accustomed, and that he should follow God without fetters: moreover, that the 
laws of liberty should be extended, and subjection to the king increased, so 
that no one who is convened should appear unworthy to Him who set him free, but 
that the piety and obedience due to the Master of the household should be 
equally rendered both by servants and children; while the children possess 
greater confidence [than the servants], inasmuch as the working of liberty is 
greater and more glorious than that obedience which is rendered in [a state of] 
slavery.
3. And for this reason did the Lord, instead of that [commandment], "Thou 
shalt not commit adultery," forbid even concupiscence; and instead of that which 
runs thus, "Thou shalt not kill," He prohibited anger; and instead of the law 
enjoining the giving of tithes, [He told us] to share 
all our possessions with the poor; and not to love our neighbours only, but even 
our enemies; and not merely to be liberal givers and bestowers, but even that we 
should present a gratuitous gift to those who take away our goods. For "to him 
that taketh away thy coat," He says, "give to him thy cloak also; and from him 
that taketh away thy goods, ask them not again; and as ye would that men should 
do unto you, do ye unto them: " 
so that we may not grieve as those who are unwilling to be defrauded, but may 
rejoice as those who have given willingly, and as rather conferring a favour 
upon our neighbours than yielding to necessity. "And if any one," He says, 
"shall compel thee [to go] a mile, go with him twain; " 
so that thou mayest not follow him as a slave, but may as a free man go before 
him, showing thyself in all things kindly disposed and useful to thy neighbour, 
not regarding their evil intentions, but performing thy kind offices, 
assimilating thyself to the Father, "who maketh His sun to rise upon the evil 
and the good, and sendeth rain upon the just and unjust." 
Now all these [precepts], as I have already observed, were not the injunctions] 
of one doing away with the law, but of one fulfilling, extending, and widening 
it among us; just as if one should say, that the more extensive operation of 
liberty implies that a more complete subjection and affection towards our 
Liberator had been implanted within us. For He did not set us free for this 
purpose, that we should depart from Him (no one, indeed, while placed out of 
reach of the Lord's benefits, has power to procure for himself the means of 
salvation), but that the more we receive His grace, the more we should love Him. 
Now the more we have loved Him, the more glory shall we receive from Him, when 
we are continually in the presence of the Father.
4. Inasmuch, then, as all natural precepts are common to us and to them (the 
Jews), they had in them indeed the beginning and origin; but in us they have 
received growth and completion. For to yield assent to God, and to follow His 
Word, and to love Him above all, and one's neighbour as one's self (now man is 
neighbour to man), and to abstain from every evil deed, and all other things of 
a like nature which are common to both [covenants], do reveal one and the same 
God. But this is our Lord, the Word of God, who in the first instance certainly 
drew slaves to God, but afterwards He set those free who were subject to Him, as 
He does Himself declare to His disciples: "I will not now call you servants, for 
the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth; but I have called you friends, for 
all things which I have heard from My Father I have made known." 
For in that which He says, "I will not now call you servants," He indicates in 
the most marked manner that it was Himself who did originally appoint for men 
that bondage with respect to God through the law, and then afterwards conferred 
upon them freedom. And in that He says, "For the servant knoweth not what his 
lord doeth," He points out, by means of His own advent, the ignorance of a 
people in a servile condition. But when He terms His disciples "the friends of 
God," He plainly declares Himself to be the Word of God, whom Abraham also 
followed voluntarily and under no compulsion (sine vinculis), because of 
the noble nature of his faith, and so became "the friend of God." 
But the Word of God did not accept of the friendship of Abraham, as though He 
stood in need of it, for He was perfect from the beginning ("Before Abraham 
was," He says, "I am" 
), but that He in His goodness might bestow eternal life upon Abraham himself, 
inasmuch as the friendship of God imparts immortality to those who embrace 
it.

Chapter XIV.-If God Demands 
  Obedience from Man, If He Formed Man, Called Him and Placed Him Under Laws, It 
  Was Merely for Man's Welfare; Not that God Stood in Need of Man, But that He 
  Graciously Conferred Upon Man His Favours in Every Possible 
Manner.
1. In the beginning, therefore, did God form Adam, not as if He stood in need 
of man, but that He might have [some one] upon whom to confer His benefits. For 
not alone antecedently to Adam, but also before all creation, the Word glorified 
His Father, remaining in Him; and was Himself glorified by the Father, as He did 
Himself declare, "Father, glorify Thou Me with the glory which I had with Thee 
before the world was." 
Nor did He stand in need of our service when He ordered us to follow Him; but He 
thus bestowed salvation upon ourselves. For to follow the Saviour is to be a 
partaker of salvation, and to follow light is to receive light. But those who 
are in light do not themselves illumine the light, but are illumined and 
revealed by it: they do certainly contribute nothing to it, but, receiving the 
benefit, they are illumined by the light. Thus, also, service [rendered] to God 
does indeed profit God nothing, nor has God need of human obedience; but He 
grants to those who follow and serve Him life and in-corruption and eternal 
glory, bestowing benefit upon those who serve [Him], because they do serve Him, 
and on His followers, because they do follow Him; but does not receive any 
benefit from them: for He is rich, perfect, and in need of nothing. But for this 
reason does God demand service from men, in order that, since He is good and 
merciful, He may benefit those who continue in His service. For, as much as God 
is in want of nothing, so much does man stand in need of fellowship with God. 
For this is the glory of man, to continue and remain permanently in God's 
service. Wherefore also did the Lord say to His disciples, "Ye have not chosen 
Me, but I have chosen you; " 
indicating that they did not glorify Him when they followed Him; but that, in 
following the Son of God, they were glorified by Him. And again, "I will, that 
where I am, there they also may be, that they may behold My glory; " 
not vainly boasting because of this, but desiring that His disciples should 
share in His glory: of whom Esaias also says, "I will bring thy seed from the 
east, and will gather thee from the west; and I will say to the north, Give up; 
and to the south, Keep not back: bring My sons from far, and My daughters from 
the ends of the earth; all, as many as have been called in My name: for in My 
glory I have prepared, and formed, and made him." 
Inasmuch as then, "wheresoever the carcase is, there shall also the eagles be 
gathered together," 
we do participate in the glory of the Lord, who has both formed us, and prepared 
us for this, that, when we are with Him, we may partake of His glory.
2. Thus it was, too, that God formed man at the first, because of His 
munificence; but chose the patriarchs for the sake of their salvation; and 
prepared a people beforehand, teaching the headstrong to follow God; and raised 
up prophets upon earth, accustoming man to bear His Spirit [within him], and to 
hold communion with God: He Himself, indeed, having need of nothing, but 
granting communion with Himself to those who stood in need of it, and sketching 
out, like an architect, the plan of salvation to those that pleased Him. And He 
did Himself furnish guidance to those who beheld Him not in Egypt, while to 
those who became unruly in the desert He promulgated a law very suitable [to 
their condition]. Then, on the people who entered into the good land He bestowed 
a noble inheritance; and He killed the fatted calf for those converted to the 
Father, and presented them with the finest robe. 
Thus, in a variety of ways, He adjusted the human race to an agreement with 
salvation. On this account also does John declare in the Apocalypse, "And His 
voice as the sound of many waters." 
For the Spirit [of God] is truly [like] many waters, since the Father is both 
rich and great. And the Word, passing through all those [men], did liberally 
confer benefits upon His subjects, by drawing up in writing a law adapted and 
applicable to every class [among them].
3. Thus, too, He imposed upon the [Jewish] people the construction of the 
tabernacle, the building of the temple, the election of the Levites, sacrifices 
also, and oblations, legal monitions, and all the other service of the law. He 
does Himself truly want none of these things, for He is always full of all good, 
and had in Himself all the odour of kindness, and every perfume of 
sweet-smelling savours, even before Moses existed. Moreover, He instructed the 
people, who were prone to turn to idols, instructing them by repeated appeals to 
persevere and to serve God, calling them to the things of primary importance by 
means of those which were secondary; that is, to things that are real, by means 
of those that are typical; and by things temporal, to eternal; and by the carnal 
to the spiritual; and by the earthly to the heavenly; as was also said to Moses, 
"Thou shalt make all things after the pattern of those things which thou sawest 
in the mount." 
For during forty days He was learning to keep [in his memory] the words of God, 
and the celestial patterns, and the spiritual images, and the types of things to 
come; as also Paul says: "For they drank of the rock which followed them: and 
the rock was Christ." 
And again, having first mentioned what are contained in the law, he goes on to 
say: "Now all these things happened to them in a figure; but they were written 
for our admonition, upon whom the end of the ages is come." For by means of 
types they learned to fear God, and to continue devoted to His service.

Chapter XV.-At First God Deemed It 
  Sufficient to Inscribe the Natural Law, or the Decalogue, Upon the Hearts of 
  Men; But Afterwards He Found It Necessary to Bridle, with the Yoke of the 
  Mosaic Law, the Desires of the Jews, Who Were Abusing Their Liberty; And Even 
  to Add Some Special Commands, Because of the Hardness of Their 
  Hearts.
1. They (the Jews) had therefore a law, a course of discipline, and a 
prophecy of future things. For God at the first, indeed, warning them by means 
of natural precepts, which from the beginning He had implanted in mankind, that 
is, by means of the Decalogue (which, if any one does not observe, he has no 
salvation), did then demand nothing more of them. As Moses says in Deuteronomy, 
"These are all the words which the Lord spake to the whole assembly of the sons 
of Israel on the mount, and He added no more; and He wrote them on two tables of 
stone, and gave them to me." 
For this reason [He did so], that they who are willing to follow Him might keep 
these commandments. But when they turned themselves to make a calf, and had gone 
back in their minds to Egypt, desiring to be slaves instead of free-men, they 
were placed for the future in a state of servitude suited to their wish,-[a 
slavery] which did not indeed cut them off from God, but subjected them to the 
yoke of bondage; as Ezekiel the prophet, when stating the reasons for the giving 
of such a law, declares: "And their eyes were after the desire of their heart; 
and I gave them statutes that were not good, and judgments in which they shall 
not live." 
Luke also has recorded that Stephen, who was the first elected into the 
diaconate by the apostles, 
and who was the first slain for the testimony of Christ, spoke regarding Moses 
as follows: "This man did indeed receive the commandments of the living God to 
give to us, whom your fathers would not obey, but thrust [Him from them], and in 
their hearts turned back again into Egypt, saying unto Aaron, Make us gods to go 
before us; for we do not know what has happened to [this] Moses, who led us from 
the land of Egypt. And they made a calf in those days, and offered sacrifices to 
the idol, and were rejoicing in the works of their own hands. But God turned, 
and gave them up to worship the hosts of heaven; as it is written in the book of 
the prophets: 
O ye house of Israel, have ye offered to Me sacrifices and oblations for forty 
years in the wilderness? And ye took up the tabernacle of Moloch, and the star 
of the god Remphan, 
figures which ye made to worship them; " 
pointing out plainly, that the law being such, was not given to them by another 
God, but that, adapted to their condition of servitude, [it originated] from the 
very same [God as we worship]. Wherefore also He says to Moses in Exodus: "I 
will send forth My angel before thee; for I will not go up with thee, because 
thou art a stiff-necked people." 

2. And not only so, but the Lord also showed that certain precepts were 
enacted for them by Moses, on account of their hardness [of heart], and because 
of their unwillingness to be obedient, when, on their saying to Him, "Why then 
did Moses command to give a writing of divorcement, and to send away a wife? "He 
said to them, "Because of the hardness of your hearts he permitted these things 
to you; but from the beginning it was not so; " 
thus exculpating Moses as a faithful servant, but acknowledging one God, who 
from the beginning made male and female, and reproving them as hard-hearted and 
disobedient. And therefore it was that they received from Moses this law of 
divorcement, adapted to their hard nature. But why say I these things concerning 
the Old Testament? For in the New also are the apostles found doing this very 
thing, on the ground which has been mentioned, Paul plainly declaring, But these 
things I say, not the Lord." 
And again: "But this I speak by permission, not by commandment." 
And again: "Now, as concerning virgins, I have no commandment from the Lord; yet 
I give my judgment, as one that hath obtained mercy of the Lord to be 
faithful." 
But further, in another place he says: "That Satan tempt you not for your 
incontinence." 
If, therefore, even in the New Testament, the apostles are found granting 
certain precepts in consideration of human infirmity, because of the 
incontinence of some, lest such persons, having grown obdurate, and despairing 
altogether of their salvation, should become apostates from God,-it ought not to 
be wondered at, if also in the Old Testament the same God permitted similar 
indulgences for the benefit of His people, drawing them on by means of the 
ordinances already mentioned, so that they might obtain the gift of salvation 
through them, while they obeyed the Decalogue, and being restrained by Him, 
should not revert to idolatry, nor apostatize from God, but learn to love Him 
with the whole heart. And if certain persons, because of the disobedient and 
ruined Israelites, do assert that the giver (doctor) of the law was 
limited in power, they will find in our dispensation, that "many are called, but 
few chosen; " 
and that there are those who inwardly are wolves, yet wear sheep's clothing in 
the eyes of the world (foris); and that God has always preserved freedom, 
and the power of self-government in man, 
while at the same time He issued His own exhortations, in order that those who 
do not obey Him should be righteously judged (condemned) because they have not 
obeyed Him; and that those who have obeyed and believed on Him should be 
honoured with immortality.

Chapter XVI.-Perfect Righteousness 
  Was Conferred Neither by Circumcision Nor by Any Other Legal Ceremonies. The 
  Decalogue, However, Was Not Cancelled by Christ, But is Always in Force: Men 
  Were Never Released from Its Commandments.
1. Moreover, we learn from the Scripture itself, that God gave circumcision, 
not as the completer of righteousness, but as a sign, that the race of Abraham 
might continue recognisable. For it declares: "God said unto Abraham, Every male 
among you shall be circumcised; and ye shall circumcise the flesh of your 
foreskins, as a token of the covenant between Me and you." 
This same does Ezekiel the prophet say with regard to the Sabbaths: "Also I gave 
them My Sabbaths, to be a sign between Me and them, that they might know that I 
am the Lord, that sanctify them." 
And in Exodus, God says to Moses: "And ye shall observe My Sabbaths; for it 
shall be a sign between Me and you for your generations." 
These things, then, were given for a sign; but the signs were not unsymbolical, 
that is, neither unmeaning nor to no purpose, inasmuch as they were given by a 
wise Artist; but the circumcision after the flesh typified that after the 
Spirit. For "we," says the apostle, "have been circumcised with the circumcision 
made without hands." 
And the prophet declares, "Circumcise the hardness of your heart." 
But the Sabbaths taught that we should continue day by day in God's 
service. 
"For we have been counted," says the Apostle Paul, "all the day long as sheep 
for the slaughter; " 
that is, consecrated [to God], and ministering continually to our faith, and 
persevering in it, and abstaining from all avarice, and not acquiring or 
possessing treasures upon earth. 
Moreover, the Sabbath of God (requietio Dei), that is, the kingdom, was, 
as it were, indicated by created things; in which [kingdom], the man who shall 
have persevered in serving God (Deo assistere) shall, in a state of rest, 
partake of God's table.
2. And that man was not justified by these things, but that they were given 
as a sign to the people, this fact shows,-that Abraham himself, without 
circumcision and without observance of Sabbaths, "believed God, and it was 
imputed unto him for righteousness; and he was called the friend of God." 
Then, again, Lot, without circumcision, was brought out from Sodom, receiving 
salvation from God. So also did Noah, pleasing God, although he was 
uncircumcised, receive the dimensions [of the ark], of the world of the second 
race [of men]. Enoch, too, pleasing God, without circumcision, discharged the 
office of God's legate to the angels although he was a man, and was translated, 
and is preserved until now as a witness of the just judgment of God, because the 
angels when they had transgressed fell to the earth for judgment, but the man 
who pleased [God] was translated for salvation. 
Moreover, all the rest of the multitude of those righteous men who lived before 
Abraham, and of those patriarchs who preceded Moses, were justified 
independently of the things above mentioned, and without the law of Moses. As 
also Moses himself says to the people in Deuteronomy: "The Lord thy God formed a 
covenant in Horeb. The Lord formed not this covenant with your fathers, but for 
you." 

3. Why, then, did the Lord not form the covenant for the fathers? Because 
"the law was not established for righteous men." 
But the righteous fathers had the meaning of the Decalogue written in their 
hearts and souls, 
that is, they loved the God who made them, and did no injury to their neighbour. 
There was therefore no occasion that they should be cautioned by prohibitory 
mandates (correptoriis literis), 
because they had the righteousness of the law in themselves. But when this 
righteousness and love to God had passed into oblivion, and became extinct in 
Egypt, God did necessarily, because of His great goodwill to men, reveal Himself 
by a voice, and led the people with power out of Egypt, in order that man might 
again become the disciple and follower of God; and He afflicted those who were 
disobedient, that they should not contemn their Creator; and He fed them with 
manna, that they might receive food for their souls (uti rationalem 
acciperent escam); as also Moses says in Deuteronomy: "And fed thee with 
manna, which thy fathers did not know, that thou mightest know that man cloth 
not live by bread alone; but by every word of God proceeding out of His mouth 
doth man live." 
And it enjoined love to God, and taught just dealing towards our neighbour, that 
we should neither be unjust nor unworthy of God, who prepares man for His 
friendship through the medium of the Decalogue, and likewise for agreement with 
his neigbbour,-matters which did certainly profit man himself; God, however, 
standing in no need of anything from man.
4. And therefore does the Scripture say, "These words the Lord spake to all 
the assembly of the children of Israel in the mount, and He added no more; 
" 
for, as I have already observed, He stood in need of nothing from them. And 
again Moses says: "And now Israel, what cloth the Lord thy God require of thee, 
but to fear the Lord thy God, to walk in all His ways, and to love Him, and to 
serve the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul? " 
Now these things did indeed make man glorious, by supplying what was wanting to 
him, namely, the friendship of God; but they profited God nothing, for God did 
not at all stand in need of man's love. For the glory of God was wanting to man, 
which he could obtain in no other way than by serving God. And therefore Moses 
says to them again: "Choose life, that thou mayest live, and thy seed, to love 
the Lord thy God, to hear His voice, to cleave unto Him; for this is thy life, 
and the length of thy days." 
Preparing man for this life, the Lord Himself did speak in His own person to all 
alike the words of the Decalogue; and therefore, in like manner, do they remain 
permanently with us, 
receiving by means of His advent in the flesh, extension and increase, but not 
abrogation.
5. The laws of bondage, however, were one by one promulgated to the people by 
Moses, suited for their instruction or for their punishment, as Moses himself 
declared: "And the Lord commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and 
judgments." 
These things, therefore, which were given for bondage, and for a sign to them, 
He cancelled by the new covenant of liberty. But He has increased and widened 
those laws which are natural, and noble, and common to all, granting to men 
largely and without grudging, by means of adoption, to know God the Father, and 
to love Him with the whole heart, and to follow His word unswervingly, while 
they abstain not only from evil deeds, but even from the desire after them. But 
He has also increased the feeling of reverence; for sons should have more 
veneration than slaves, and greater love for their father. And therefore the 
Lord says, "As to every idle word that men have spoken, they shall render an 
account for it in the day of judgment." 
And, "he who has looked upon a woman to lust after her, hath committed adultery 
with her already in his heart; " 
and, "he that is angry with his brother without a cause, shall be in danger of 
the judgment." 
[All this is declared, ] that we may know that we shall give account to God not 
of deeds only, as slaves, but even of words and thoughts, as those who have 
truly received the power of liberty, in which [condition] a man is more severely 
tested, whether he will reverence, and fear, and love the Lord. And for this 
reason Peter says "that we have not liberty as a cloak of maliciousness," 
but as the means of testing and evidencing faith.

Chapter XVII.-Proof that God Did Not 
  Appoint the Levitical Dispensation for His Own Sake, or as Requiring Such 
  Service; For He Does, in Fact, Need Nothing from Men.
1. Moreover, the prophets indicate in the fullest manner that God stood in no 
need of their slavish obedience, but that it was upon their own account that He 
enjoined certain observances in the law. And again, that God needed not their 
oblation, but [merely demanded it], on account of man himself who offers it, the 
Lord taught distinctly, as I have pointed out. For when He perceived them 
neglecting righteousness, and abstaining from the love of God, and imagining 
that God was to be propitiated by sacrifices and the other typical observances, 
Samuel did even thus speak to them: "God does not desire whole burnt-offerings 
and sacrifices, but He will have His voice to be hearkened to. Behold, a ready 
obedience is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams." 
David also says: "Sacrifice and oblation Thou didst not desire, but mine ears 
hast Thou perfected; 
burnt-offerings also for sin Thou hast not required." 
He thus teaches them that God desires obedience, which renders them secure, 
rather than sacrifices and holocausts, which avail them nothing towards 
righteousness; and [by this declaration] he prophesies the new covenant at the 
same time. Still clearer, too, does he speak of these things in the fiftieth 
Psalm: "For if Thou hadst desired sacrifice, then would I have given it: Thou 
wilt not delight in burnt-offerings. The sacrifice of God is a broken spirit; a 
broken and contrite heart the Lord will not despise." 
Because, therefore, God stands in need of nothing, He declares in the preceding 
Psalm: "I will take no calves out of thine house, nor he-goats out of thy fold. 
For Mine are all the beasts of the earth, the herds and the oxen on the 
mountains: I know all the fowls of heaven, and the various tribes 
of the field are Mine. If I were hungry, I would not tell thee: for the world is 
Mine, and the fulness thereof. Shall I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the 
blood of goats? " 
Then, lest it might be supposed that He refused these things in His anger, He 
continues, giving him (man) counsel: "Offer unto God the sacrifice of praise, 
and pay thy vows to the Most High; and call upon Me in the day of thy trouble, 
and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me; " 
rejecting, indeed, those things by which sinners imagined they could propitiate 
God, and showing that He does Himself stand in need of nothing; but He exhorts 
and advises them to those. things by which man is justified and draws nigh to 
God. This same declaration does Esaias make: "To what purpose is the multitude 
of your sacrifices unto Me? saith the Lord. I am full." 
And when He had repudiated holocausts, and sacrifices, and oblations, as 
likewise the new moons, and the sabbaths, and the festivals, and all the rest of 
the services accompanying these, He continues, exhorting them to what pertained 
to salvation: "Wash you, make you clean, take away wickedness from your hearts 
from before mine eyes: cease from your evil ways, learn to do well, seek 
judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow; and 
come, let us reason together, saith the Lord."
2. For it was not because He was angry, like a man, as many venture to say, 
that He rejected their sacrifices; but out of compassion to their blindness, and 
with the view of suggesting to them the true sacrifice, by offering which they 
shall appease God, that they may receive life from Him. As He elsewhere 
declares: "The sacrifice to God is an afflicted heart: a sweet savour to God is 
a heart glorifying Him who formed it." 
For if, when angry, He had repudiated these sacrifices of theirs, as if they 
were persons unworthy to obtain His compassion, He would not certainly have 
urged these same things upon them as those by which they might be saved. But 
inasmuch as God is merciful, He did not cut them off from good counsel. For 
after He had said by Jeremiah, "To what purpose bring ye Me incense from Saba, 
and cinnamon from a far country? Your whole burnt-offerings and sacrifices are 
not acceptable to Me; " 
He proceeds: "Hear the word of the Lord, all Judah. These things saith the Lord, 
the God of Israel, Make straight your ways and your doings, and I will establish 
you in this place. Put not your trust in lying words, for they will not at all 
profit you, saying, The temple of the Lord, The temple of the Lord, it is 
[here]." 
3. And again, when He points out that it was not for this that He led them out 
of Egypt, that they might offer sacrifice to Him, but that, forgetting the 
idolatry of the Egyptians, they should be able to hear the voice of the Lord, 
which was to them salvation and glory, He declares by this same Jeremiah: "Thus 
saith the Lord; Collect together your burnt-offerings with your sacrifices and 
eat flesh. For I spake not unto your fathers nor commanded them in the day that 
I brought them out of Egypt, concerning burnt-offerings or sacrifices: but this 
word I commanded them, saying, Hear My voice, and I will be your God, and ye 
shall be My people; and walk in all My ways whatsoever I have commanded you, 
that it may be well with you. But they obeyed not, nor hearkened; but walked in 
the imaginations of their own evil heart, and went backwards, and not 
forwards." 
And again, when He declares by the same man, "But let him that glorieth, glory 
in this, to understand and know that I am the Lord, who doth exercise 
loving-kindness, and righteousness, and judgment in the earth; " 
He adds, "For in these things I delight, says the Lord," but not in sacrifices, 
nor in holocausts, nor in oblations. For the people did not receive these 
precepts as of primary importance (principaliter), but as secondary, and 
for the reason already alleged, as Isaiah again says: "Thou hast not [brought 
to] Me the sheep of thy holocaust, nor in thy sacrifices hast thou glorified Me: 
thou hast not served Me in sacrifices, nor in [the matter of] frankincense hast 
thou done anything laboriously; neither hast thou bought for Me incense with 
money, nor have I desired the fat of thy sacrifices; but thou hast stood before 
Me in thy sins and in thine iniquities." 
He says, therefore, "Upon this man will I look, even upon him that is humble, 
and meek, and who trembles at My words." 
"For the fat and the fat flesh shall not take away from thee thine 
unrighteousness." 
"This is the fast which I have chosen, saith the Lord. Loose every band of 
wickedness, dissolve the connections of violent agreements, give rest to those 
that are shaken, and cancel every unjust document. Deal thy bread to the hungry 
willingly, and lead into thy house the roofless stranger. If thou hast seen the 
naked, cover him, and thou shalt not despise those of thine own flesh and blood 
(domesticos seminis tui). Then shall thy morning light break forth, and 
thy health shall spring forth more speedily; and righteousness shall go before 
thee, and the glory of the LoRD shall surround thee: and whilst thou an yet 
speaking, I will say, Behold, here I am." 
And Zechariah also, among the twelve prophets, pointing out to the people the 
will of God, says: "These things does the Lord Omnipotent declare: Execute true 
judgment, and show mercy and compassion each one to his brother. And oppress not 
the widow, and the orphan, and the proselyte, and the poor; and let none imagine 
evil against your brother in his heart." 
And again, he says: "These are the words which ye shall utter. Speak ye the 
truth every man to his neighbour, and execute peaceful judgment in your gates, 
and let none of you imagine evil in his heart against his brother, and ye shall 
not love false swearing: for all these things I hate, saith the Lord 
Almighty." 
Moreover, David also says in like manner: "What man is there who desireth life, 
and would fain see good days? Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips that they 
speak no guile. Shun evil, and do good: seek peace, and pursue it." 

4. From all these it is evident that God did not seek sacrifices and 
holocausts from them, but faith, and obedience, and righteousness, because of 
their salvation. As God, when teaching them His will in Hosea the prophet, said, 
"I desire mercy rather than sacrifice, and the knowledge of God more than 
burnt-offerings." 
Besides, our Lord also exhorted them to the same effect, when He said, "But if 
ye had known what [this] meaneth, I will have mercy, and not sacrifice, ye would 
not have condemned the guiltless." 
Thus does He bear witness to the prophets, that they preached the truth; but 
accuses these men (His hearers) of being foolish through their own fault.
5. Again, giving directions to His disciples to offer to God the 
first-fruits 
of His own, created things-not as if He stood in need of them, but that they 
might be themselves neither unfruitful nor ungrateful-He took that created 
thing, bread, and gave thanks, and said, "This is My body." 
And the cup likewise, which is part of that creation to which we belong, He 
confessed to be His blood, and taught the new oblation of the new covenant; 
which the Church receiving from the apostles, offers to God throughout all the 
world, to Him who gives us as the means of subsistence the first-fruits of His 
own gifts in the New Testament, concerning which Malachi, among the twelve 
prophets, thus spoke beforehand: "I have no pleasure in you, saith the Lord 
Omnipotent, and I will not accept sacrifice at your hands. For from the rising 
of the sun, unto the going down [of the same], My name is glorified among the 
Gentiles, and in every place incense is offered to My name, and a pure 
sacrifice; for great is My name among the Gentiles, saith the Lord Omnipotent; 
" 
-indicating in the plainest manner, by these words, that the former people [the 
Jews] shall indeed cease to make offerings to God, but that in every place 
sacrifice shall be offered to Him, and that a pure one; and His name is 
glorified among the Gentiles. 

6. But what other name is there which is glorified among the Gentiles than 
that of our Lord, by whom the Father is glorified, and man also? And because it 
is [the name] of His own Son, who was made man by Him, He calls it His own. Just 
as a king, if he himself paints a likeness of his son, is right in calling this 
likeness his own, for both these reasons, because it is [the likeness] of his 
son, and because it is his own production; so also does the Father confess the 
name of Jesus Christ, which is throughout all the world glorified in the Church, 
to be His own, both because it is that of His Son, and because He who thus 
describes it gave Him for the salvation of men. Since, therefore, the name of 
the Son belongs to the Father, and since in the omnipotent God the Church makes 
offerings through Jesus Christ, He says well on both these grounds, "And in 
every place incense is offered to My name, and a pure sacrifice." Now John, in 
the Apocalypse, declares that the "incense" is "the prayers of the 
saints." 


Chapter XVIII.-Concerning Sacrifices 
  and Oblations, and Those Who Truly Offer Them.
1. The oblation of the Church, therefore, which the Lord gave instructions to 
be offered throughout all the world, is accounted with God a pure sacrifice, and 
is acceptable to Him; not that He stands in need of a sacrifice from us, but 
that he who offers is himself glorified in what he does offer, if his gift be 
accepted. For by the gift both honour and affection are shown forth towards the 
King; and the Lord, wishing us to offer it in all simplicity and innocence, did 
express Himself thus: "Therefore, when thou offerest thy gift upon the altar, 
and shalt remember that thy brother hath ought against thee, leave thy gift 
before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then 
return and offer thy gift." 
We are bound, therefore, to offer to God the first-fruits of His creation, as 
Moses also says, "Thou shalt not appear in the presence of the Lord thy God 
empty; " 
so that man, being accounted as grateful, by those things in which he has shown 
his gratitude, may receive that honour which flows from Him. 

2. And the class of oblations in general has not been set aside; for there 
were both oblations there [among the Jews], and there are oblations here [among 
the Christians]. Sacrifices there were among the people; sacrifices there are, 
too, in the Church: but the species alone has been changed, inasmuch as the 
offering is now made, not by slaves, but by freemen. For the Lord is [ever] one 
and the same; but the character of a servile oblation is peculiar [to itself], 
as is also that of freemen, in order that, by the very oblations, the indication 
of liberty may be set forth. For with Him there is nothing purposeless, nor 
without signification, nor without design. And for this reason they (the Jews) 
had indeed the tithes of their goods consecrated to Him, but those who have 
received liberty set aside all their possessions for the Lord's purposes, 
bestowing joyfully and freely not the less valuable portions of their property, 
since they have the hope of better things [hereafter]; as that poor widow acted 
who cast all her living into the treasury of God. 

3. For at the beginning God had respect to the gifts of Abel, because he 
offered with single-mindedness and righteousness; but He had no respect unto the 
offering of Cain, because his heart was divided with envy and malice, which he 
cherished against his brother, as God says when reproving his hidden [thoughts], 
"Though thou offerest rightly, yet, if thou dost not divide rightly, hast thou 
not sinned? Be at rest; " 
since God is not appeased by sacrifice. For if any one shall endeavour to offer 
a sacrifice merely to outward appearance, unexceptionably, in due order, and 
according to appointment, while in his soul he does not assign to his neighbour 
that fellowship with him which is right and proper, nor is under the fear of 
God;-he who thus cherishes secret sin does not deceive God by that sacrifice 
which is offered correctly as to outward appearance; nor will such an oblation 
profit him anything, but [only] the giving up of that evil which has been 
conceived within him, so that sin may not the more, by means of the hypocritical 
action, render him the destroyer of himself. 
Wherefore did the Lord also declare: "Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, 
hypocrites, for ye are like whited sepulchres. For the sepulchre appears 
beautiful outside, but within it is full of dead men's bones, and all 
uncleanness; even so ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within ye 
are full of wickedness and hypocrisy." 
For while they were thought to offer correctly so far as outward appearance 
went, they had in themselves jealousy like to Cain; therefore they slew the Just 
One, slighting the counsel of the Word, as did also Cain. For [God] said to him, 
"Be at rest; "but he did not assent. Now what else is it to "be at rest" than to 
forego purposed violence? And saying similar things to these men, He declares: 
"Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse that which is within the cup, that the outside may 
be clean also." 
And they did not listen to Him. For Jeremiah says, "Behold, neither thine eyes 
nor thy heart are good; but [they are turned] to thy covetousness, and to shed 
innocent blood, and for injustice, and for man-slaying, that thou mayest do 
it." 
And again Isaiah saith, "Ye have taken counsel, but not of Me; and made 
covenants, [but] not by My Spirit." 
In order, therefore, that their inner wish and thought, being brought to light, 
may show that God is without blame, and worketh no evil-that God who reveals 
what is hidden [in the heart], but who worketh not evil-when Cain was by no 
means at rest, He saith to him: "To thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt 
rule over him." 
Thus did He in like manner speak to Pilate: "Thou shouldest have no power at all 
against Me, unless it were given thee from above; " 
God always giving up the righteous one [in this life to suffering], that he, 
having been tested by what he suffered and endured, may [at last] be accepted; 
but that the evildoer, being judged by the actions he has performed, may be 
rejected. Sacrifices, therefore, do not sanctify a man, for God stands in no 
need of sacrifice; but it is the conscience of the offerer that sanctifies the 
sacrifice when it is pure, and thus moves God to accept [the offering] as from a 
friend. "But the sinner," says He, "who kills a calf [in sacrifice] to Me, is as 
if he slew a dog." 

4. Inasmuch, then, as the Church offers with single-mindedness, her gift is 
justly reckoned a pure sacrifice with God. As Paul also says to the Philippians, 
"I am full, having received from Epaphroditus the things that were sent from 
you, the odour of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, pleasing to 
God." 
For it behoves us to make an oblation to God, and in all things to be found 
grateful to God our Maker, in a pure mind, and in faith without hypocrisy, in 
well-grounded hope, in fervent love, offering the first-fruits of His own 
created things. And the Church alone offers this pure oblation to the Creator, 
offering to Him, with giving of thanks, [the things taken] from His creation. 
But the Jews do not offer thus: for their hands are full of blood; for they have 
not received the Word, through whom it is offered to God. 
Nor, again, do any of the conventicles (synagogae) of the heretics [offer 
this]. For some, by maintaining that the Father is different from the Creator, 
do, when they offer to Him what belongs to this creation of ours, set Him forth 
as being covetous of another's property, and desirous of what is not His own. 
Those, again, who maintain that the things around us originated from apostasy, 
ignorance, and passion, do, while offering unto Him the fruits of ignorance, 
passion, and apostasy, sin against their Father, rather subjecting Him to insult 
than giving Him thanks. But how can they be consistent with themselves, [when 
they say] that the bread over which thanks have been given is the body of their 
Lord, 
and the cup His blood, if they do not call Himself the Son of the Creator of the 
world, that is, His Word, through whom the wood fructifies, and the fountains 
gush forth, and the earth gives "first the blade, then the ear, then the full 
corn in the ear." 

5. Then, again, how can they say that the flesh, which is nourished with the 
body of the Lord and with His blood, goes to corruption, and does not partake of 
life? Let them, therefore, either alter their opinion, or cease from offering 
the things just mentioned. 
But our opinion is in accordance with the Eucharist, and the Eucharist in turn 
establishes our opinion. For we offer to Him His own, announcing consistently 
the fellowship and union of the flesh and Spirit. 
For as the bread, which is produced from the earth, when it receives the 
invocation of God, is no longer common bread, 
but the Eucharist, consisting of two realities, earthly and heavenly; so also 
our bodies, when they receive the Eucharist, are no longer corruptible, having 
the hope of the resurrection to eternity.
6. Now we make offering to Him, not as though He stood in need of it, but 
rendering thanks for His gift, 
and thus sanctifying what has been created. For even as God does not need our 
possessions, so do we need to offer something to God; as Solomon says: "He that 
hath pity upon the poor, lendeth unto the Lord." 
For God, who stands in need of nothing, takes our good works to Himself for this 
purpose, that He may grant us a recompense of His own good things, as our Lord 
says: "Come, ye blessed of My Father, receive the kingdom prepared for you. For 
I was an hungered, and ye gave Me to eat: I was thirsty, and ye gave Me drink: I 
was a stranger, and ye took Me in: naked, and ye clothed Me; sick, and ye 
visited Me; in prison, and ye came to Me." 
As, therefore, He does not stand in need of these [services], yet does desire 
that we should render them for our own benefit, lest we be unfruitful; so did 
the Word give to the people that very precept as to the making of oblations, 
although He stood in no need of them, that they might learn to serve God: thus 
is it, therefore, also His will that we, too, should offer a gift at the altar, 
frequently and without intermission. The altar, then, is in heaven 
(for towards that place are our prayers and oblations directed); the temple 
likewise [is there], as John says in the Apocalypse, "And the temple of God was 
opened: " 
the tabernacle also: "For, behold," He says, "the tabernacle of God, in which He 
will dwell with men."

Chapter XIX.-Earthly Things May Be 
  the Type of Heavenly, But the Latter Cannot Be the Types of Others Still 
  Superior and Unknown; Nor Can We, Without Absolute Madness, Maintain that God 
  is Known to Us Only as the Type of a Still Unknown and Superior 
  Being.
1. Now the gifts, oblations, and all the sacrifices, did the people receive 
in a figure, as was shown to Moses in the mount, from one and the same God, 
whose name is now glorified in the Church among all nations. But it is congruous 
that those earthly things, indeed, which are spread all around us, should be 
types of the celestial, being [both], however, created by the same God. For in 
no other way could He assimilate an image of spiritual things [to suit our 
comprehension]. But to allege that those things which are super-celestial and 
spiritual, and, as far as we are concerned, invisible and ineffable, are in 
their turn the types of celestial things and of another Pleroma, and [to say] 
that God is the image of another Father, is to play the part both of wanderers 
from the truth, and of absolutely foolish and stupid persons. For, as I have 
repeatedly shown, such persons will find it necessary to be continually finding 
out types of types, and images of images, and will never [be able to] fix their 
minds on one and the true God. For their imaginations range beyond God, they 
having in their hearts surpassed the Master Himself, being indeed in idea elated 
and exalted above [Him], but in reality turning away from the true God.
2. To these persons one may with justice say (as Scripture itself suggests), 
To what distance above God do ye lift up your imaginations, O ye rashly elated 
men? Ye have heard "that the heavens are meted out in the palm of [His] hand: 
" 
tell me the measure, and recount the endless multitude of cubits, explain to me 
the fulness, the breadth, the length, the height, the beginning and end of the 
measurement,-things which the heart of man understands not, neither does it 
comprehend them. For the heavenly treasuries are indeed great: God cannot be 
measured in the heart, and incomprehensible is He in the mind; He who holds the 
earth in the hollow of His hand. Who perceives the measure of His right hand? 
Who knoweth His finger? Or who doth understand His hand,-that hand which 
measures immensity; that hand which, by its own measure, spreads out the measure 
of the heavens, and which comprises in its hollow the earth with the abysses; 
which contains in itself the breadth, and length, and the deep below, and the 
height above of the whole creation; which is seen, which is heard and 
understood, and which is invisible? And for this reason God is "above all 
principality, and power, and dominion, and every name that is named," 
of all things which have been created and established. He it is who fills the 
heavens, and views the abysses, who is also present with every one of us. For he 
says, "Am I a God at hand, and not a God afar off? If any man is hid in secret 
places, shall I not see him? " 
For His hand lays hold of all things, and that it is which illumines the 
heavens, and lightens also the things which are under the heavens, and trieth 
the reins and the hearts, is also present in hidden things, and in our secret 
[thoughts], and does openly nourish and preserve us.
3. But if man comprehends not the fulness and the greatness of His hand, how 
shall any one be able to understand or know in his heart so great a God? Yet, as 
if they had now measured and thoroughly investigated Him, and explored Him on 
every side, 
they feign that beyond Him there exists another Pleroma of Aeons, and another 
Father; certainly not looking up to celestial things, but truly descending into 
a profound abyss (Bythus) of madness; maintaining that their Father extends only 
to the border of those things which are beyond the Pleroma, but that, on the 
other hand, the Demiurge does not reach so far as the Pleroma; and thus they 
represent neither of them as being perfect and comprehending all things. For the 
former will be defective in regard to the whole world formed outside of the 
Pleroma, and the latter in respect of that [ideal] world which was formed within 
the Pleroma; and [therefore] neither of these can be the God of all. But that no 
one can fully declare the goodness of God from the things made by Him, is a 
point evident to all. And that His greatness is not defective, but contains all 
things, and extends even to us, and is with us, every one will confess who 
entertains worthy conceptions of God.

Chapter XX.-That One God Formed All 
  Things in the World, by Means of the Word and the Holy Spirit: and that 
  Although He is to Us in This Life Invisible and Incomprehensible, Nevertheless 
  He is Not Unknown; Inasmuch as His Works Do Declare Him, and His Word Has 
  Shown that in Many Modes He May Be Seen and Known.
1. As regards His greatness, therefore, it is not possible to know God, for 
it is impossible that the Father can be measured; but as regards His love (for 
this it is which leads us to God by His Word), when we obey Him, we do always 
learn that there is so great a God, and that it is He who by Himself has 
established, and selected, and adorned, and contains all things; and among the 
all things, both ourselves and this our world. We also then were made, along 
with those things which are contained by Him. And this is He of whom the 
Scripture says, "And God formed man, taking clay of the earth, and breathed into 
his face the breath of life." 
It was not angels, therefore, who made us, nor who formed us, neither had angels 
power to make an image of God, nor any one else, except the Word of the Lord, 
nor any Power remotely distant from the Father of all things. For God did not 
stand in need of these [beings], in order to the accomplishing of what He had 
Himself determined with Himself beforehand should be done, as if He did not 
possess His own hands. For with Him were always present the Word and Wisdom, the 
Son and the Spirit, by whom and in whom, freely and spontaneously, He made all 
things, to whom also He speaks, saying, "Let Us make man after Our image and 
likeness; " 
He taking from Himself the substance of the creatures [formed], and the pattern 
of things made, and the type of all the adornments in the world.
2. Truly, then, the Scripture declared, which says, "First 
of all believe that there is one God, who has established all things, and 
completed them, and having caused that from what had no being, all things should 
come into existence: "He who contains all things, and is Himself contained by no 
one. Rightly also has Malachi said among the prophets: "Is it not one God who 
hath established us? Have we not all one Father? " 
In accordance with this, too, does the apostle say, "There is one God, the 
Father, who is above all, and in us all." 
Likewise does the Lord also say: "All things are delivered to Me by My Father; 
" 
manifestly by Him who made all things; for He did not deliver to Him the things 
of another, but His own. But in all things [it is implied that] nothing 
has been kept back [from Him], and for this reason the same person is the Judge 
of the living and the dead; "having the key of David: He shall Open, and no man 
shall shut: He shall shut, and no man shall open." 
For no one was able, either in heaven or in earth, or under the earth, to open 
the book of the Father, or to behold Him, with the exception of the Lamb who was 
slain, and who redeemed us with His own blood, receiving power over all things 
from the same God who made all things by the Word, and adorned them by [His] 
Wisdom, when "the Word was made flesh; "that even as the Word of God had the 
sovereignty in the heavens, so also might He have the sovereignty in earth, 
inasmuch as [He was] a righteous man, "who did no sin, neither was there found 
guile in His mouth; " 
and that He might have the pre-eminence over those things which are under the 
earth, He Himself being made "the first-begotten of the dead; " 
and that all things, as I have already said, might behold their King; and that 
the paternal light might meet with and rest upon the flesh of our Lord, and come 
to us from His resplendent flesh, and that thus man might attain to immortality, 
having been invested with the paternal light.
3. I have also largely demonstrated, that the Word, namely the Son, was 
always with the Father; and that Wisdom also, which is the Spirit, was present 
with Him, anterior to all creation, He declares by Solomon: "God by Wisdom 
founded the earth, and by understanding hath He established the heaven. By His 
knowledge the depths burst forth, and the clouds dropped down the dew." 
And again: "The Lord created me the beginning of His ways in His work: He set me 
up from everlasting, in the beginning, before He made the earth, before He 
established the depths, and before the fountains of waters gushed forth; before 
the mountains were made strong, and before all the hills, He brought me 
forth." 
And again: "When He prepared the heaven, I was with Him, and when He established 
the fountains of the deep; when He made the foundations of the earth strong, I 
was with Him preparing [them]. I was He in whom He rejoiced, and throughout all 
time I was daily glad before His face, when He rejoiced at the completion of the 
world, and was delighted in the sons of men." 

4. There is therefore one God, who by the Word and Wisdom created and 
arranged all things; but this is the Creator (Demiurge) who has granted this 
world to the human race, and who, as regards His greatness, is indeed unknown to 
all who have been made by Him (for no man has searched out His height, either 
among the ancients who have gone to their rest, or any of those who are now 
alive); but as regards His love, He is always known through Him by whose means 
He ordained all things. Now this is His Word, our Lord Jesus Christ, who in the 
last times was made a man among men, that He might join the end to the 
beginning, that is, man to God. Wherefore the prophets, receiving the prophetic 
gift from the same Word, announced His advent according to the flesh, by which 
the blending and communion of God and man took place according to the good 
pleasure of the Father, the Word of God foretelling from the beginning that God 
should be seen by men, and hold converse with them upon earth, should confer 
with them, and should be present with His own creation, saving it, and becoming 
capable of being perceived by it, and freeing us from the hands of all that hate 
us, that is, from every spirit of wickedness; and causing us to serve Him in 
holiness and righteousness all our days, 
in order that man, having embraced the Spirit of God, might pass into the glory 
of the Father.
5. These things did the prophets set forth in a prophetical manner; but they 
did not, as some allege, [proclaim] that He who was seen by the prophets was a 
different [God], the Father of all being invisible. Yet this is what those 
[heretics] declare, who are altogether ignorant of the nature of prophecy. For 
prophecy is a prediction of things future, that is, a setting forth beforehand 
of those things which shall be afterwards. The prophets, then, indicated 
beforehand that God should be seen by men; as the Lord also says, "Blessed are 
the pure in heart, for they shall see God." 
But in respect to His greatness, and His wonderful glory, "no man shall see God 
and live," 
for the Father is incomprehensible; but in regard to His love, and kindness, and 
as to His infinite power, even this He grants to those who love Him, that is, to 
see God, which thing the prophets did also predict. "For those things that are 
impossible with men, are possible with God." 
For man does not see God by his own powers; but when He pleases He is seen by 
men, by whom He wills, and when He wills, and as He wills. For God is powerful 
in all things, having been seen at that time indeed, prophetically through the 
Spirit, and seen, too, adoptively through the Son; and He shall also be seen 
paternally in the kingdom of heaven, the Spirit truly preparing man in the 
Son 
of God, and the Son leading him to the Father, while the Father, too, confers 
[upon him] incorruption for eternal life, which comes to every one from the fact 
of his seeing God. For as those who see the light are within the light, and 
partake of its brilliancy; even so, those who see God are in God, and receive of 
His splendour. But [His] splendour vivifies them; those, therefore, who see God, 
do receive life. And for this reason, He, [although] beyond comprehension, and 
boundless and invisible, rendered Himself visible, and comprehensible, and 
within the capacity of those who believe, that He might vivify those who receive 
and behold Him through faith. 
For as His greatness is past finding out, so also His goodness is beyond 
expression; by which having been seen, He bestows life upon those who see Him. 
It is not possible to live apart from life, and the means of life is found in 
fellowship with God; but fellowship with God is to know God, and to enjoy His 
goodness.
6. Men therefore shall see God, that they may live, being made immortal by 
that sight, and attaining even unto God; which, as I have already said, was 
declared figuratively by the prophets, that God should be seen by men who bear 
His Spirit [in them], and do always wait patiently for His coming. As also Moses 
says in Deuteronomy, "We shall see in that day that God will talk to man, and he 
shall live." 
For certain of these men used to see the prophetic Spirit and His active 
influences poured forth for all kinds of gifts; others, again, [beheld] the 
advent of the Lord, and that dispensation which obtained from the beginning, by 
which He accomplished the will of the Father with regard to things both 
celestial and terrestrial; and others [beheld] paternal glories adapted to the 
times, and to those who saw and who heard them then, and to all who were 
subsequently to hear them. Thus, therefore, was God revealed; for God the Father 
is shown forth through all these [operations], the Spirit indeed working, and 
the Son ministering, while the Father was approving, and man's salvation being 
accomplished. As He also declares through Hosea the prophet: "I," He says, "have 
multiplied visions, and have used similitudes by the ministry (in 
manibus) of the prophets." 
But the apostle expounded this very passage, when he said, "Now there are 
diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit; and there are differences of 
ministrations, but the same Lord; and there are diversities of operations, but 
it is the same God which worketh all in all. But the manifestation of the Spirit 
is given to every man to profit withal." 
But as He who worketh all things in all is God, [as to the points] of what 
nature and how great He is, [God] is invisible and indescribable to all things 
which have been made by Him, but He is by no means unknown: for all things learn 
through His Word that there is one God the Father, who contains all things, and 
who grants existence to all, as is written in the Gospel: "No man hath seen God 
at any time, except the only-begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father; He 
has declared [Him.]" 

7. Therefore the Son of the Father declares [Him] from the beginning, 
inasmuch as He was with the Father from the beginning, who did also show to the 
human race prophetic visions, and diversities of gifts, and His own 
ministrations, and the glory of the Father, in regular order and connection, at 
the fitting time for the benefit [of mankind]. For where there is a regular 
succession, there is also fixedness; and where fixedness, there suitability to 
the period; and where suitability, there also utility. And for this reason did 
the Word become the dispenser of the paternal grace for the benefit of men, for 
whom He made such great dispensations, revealing God indeed to men, but 
presenting man to God, and preserving at the same time the invisibility of the 
Father, lest man should at any time become a despiser of God, and that he should 
always possess something towards which he might advance; but, on the other hand, 
revealing God to men through many dispensations, lest man, failing away from God 
altogether, should cease to exist. For the glory of God is a living man; and the 
life of man consists in beholding God. For if the manifestation of God which is 
made by means of the creation, affords life to all living in the earth, much 
more does that revelation of the Father which comes through the Word, give life 
to those who see God.
8. Inasmuch, then, as the Spirit of God pointed out by the prophets things to 
come, forming and adapting us beforehand for the purpose of our being made 
subject to God, but it was still a future thing that man, through the good 
pleasure of the Holy Spirit, should see [God], it necessarily behoved those 
through whose instrumentality future things were announced, to see God, whom 
they intimated as to be seen by men; in order that God, and the Son of God, and 
the Son, and the Father, should not only be prophetically announced, but that He 
should also be seen by all His members who are sanctified and instructed in the 
things of God, that man might be disciplined beforehand and previously exercised 
for a reception into that glory which shall afterwards be revealed in those who 
love God. For the prophets used not to prophesy in word alone, but in visions 
also, and in their mode of life, and in the actions which they performed, 
according to the suggestions of the Spirit. After this invisible manner, 
therefore, did they see God, as also Esaias says, "I have seen with mine eyes 
the King, the Lord Of hosts," 
pointing out that man should behold God with his eyes, and hear His voice. In 
this manner, therefore, did they also see the Son of God as a man conversant 
with men, while they prophesied what was to happen, saying that He who was not 
come as yet was present proclaiming also the impassible as subject to suffering, 
and declaring that He who was then in heaven had descended into the dust of 
death. 
Moreover, [with regard to] the other arrangements concerning the summing up that 
He should make, some of these they beheld through visions, others they 
proclaimed by word, while others they indicated typically by means of [outward] 
action, seeing visibly those things which were to be seen; heralding by word of 
mouth those which should be heard; and performing by actual operation what 
should take place by action; but [at the same time] announcing all 
prophetically. Wherefore also Moses declared that God was indeed a consuming 
fire 
(igneum) to the people that transgressed the law, and threatened that God 
would bring upon them a day of fire; but to those who had the fear of God he 
said, "The Lord God is merciful and gracious, and long-suffering, and of great 
commiseration, and true, and keeps justice and mercy for thousands, forgiving 
unrighteousness, and transgressions, and sins." 

9. And the Word spake to Moses, appearing before him, "just as any one might 
speak to his friend." 
But Moses desired to see Him openly who was speaking with him, and was thus 
addressed: "Stand in the deep place of the rock, and with My hand I will cover 
thee. But when My splendour shall pass by, then thou shalt see My back pans, but 
My face thou shalt not see: for no man sees My face, and shall live." 
Two facts are thus signified: that it is impossible for man to see God; and 
that, through the wisdom of God, man shall see Him in the last times, in the 
depth of a rock, that is, in His coming as a man. And for this reason did He 
[the Lord] confer with him face to face on the top of a mountain, Elias being 
also present, as the Gospel relates, 
He thus making good in the end the ancient promise.
10. The prophets, therefore, did not openly behold the actual face of God, 
but [they saw] the dispensations and the mysteries through which man should 
afterwards see God. As was also said to Elias: "Thou shalt go forth tomorrow, 
and stand in the presence of the Lord; and, behold, a wind great and strong, 
which shall rend the mountains, and break the rocks in pieces before the Lord. 
And the Lord [was] not in the wind; and after the wind an earthquake, but the 
Lord [was] not in the earthquake; and after the earthquake a fire, but the Lord 
[was] not in the fire; and after the fire a scarcely audible voice" (vox 
aurae tenuis). 
For by such means was the prophet-very indignant, because of the transgression 
of the people and the slaughter of the prophets-both taught to act in a more 
gentle manner; and the Lord's advent as a man was pointed out, that it should be 
subsequent to that law which was given by Moses, mild and tranquil, in which He 
would neither break the bruised reed, nor quench the smoking flax. 
The mild and peaceful repose of His kingdom was indicated likewise. For, after 
the wind which rends the mountains, and after the earthquake, and after the 
fire, come the tranquil and peaceful times of His kingdom, in which the spirit 
of God does, in the most gentle manner, vivify and increase mankind. This, too, 
was made still clearer by Ezekiel, that the prophets saw the dispensations of 
God in part, but not actually God Himself. For when this man had seen the 
vision 
of God, and the cherubim, and their wheels, and when he had recounted the 
mystery of the whole of that progression, and had beheld the likeness of a 
throne above them, and upon the throne a likeness as of the figure of a man, and 
the things which were upon his loins as the figure of amber, and what was below 
like the sight of fire, and when he set forth all the rest of the vision of the 
thrones, lest any one might happen to think that in those [visions] he had 
actually seen God, he added: "This was the appearance of the likeness of the 
glory of God." 

11. If, then, neither Moses, nor Elias, nor Ezekiel, who had all many 
celestial visions, did see God; but if what they did see were similitudes of the 
splendour of the Lord, And prophecies of things to come; it is manifest that the 
Father is indeed invisible, of whom also the Lord said, "No man hath seen God at 
any time." 
But His Word, as He Himself willed it, and for the benefit of those who beheld, 
did show the Father's brightness, and explained His purposes (as also the Lord 
said: "The only-begotten God, 
which is in the bosom of the Father, He hath declared [Him]; "and He does 
Himself also interpret the Word of the Father as being rich and great); not in 
one figure, nor in one character, did He appear to those seeing Him, but 
according to the reasons and effects aimed at in His dispensations, as it is 
written in Daniel. For at one time He was seen with those who were around 
Ananias, Azarias, Misael, as present with them in the furnace of fire, in the 
burning, and preserving them from [the effects of] fire: "And the appearance of 
the fourth," it is said, "was like to the Son of God." 
At another time [He is represented as] "a stone cut out of the mountain without 
hands," 
and as smiting all temporal kingdoms, and as blowing them away (ventilans 
ea), and as Himself filling all the earth. Then, too, is this same 
individual beheld as the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven, and drawing 
near to the Ancient of Days, and receiving from Him all power and glory, and a 
kingdom. "His dominion," it is said, "is an everlasting dominion, and His 
kingdom shall not perish." 
John also, the Lord's disciple, when beholding the sacerdotal and glorious 
advent of His kingdom, says in the Apocalypse: "I turned to see the voice that 
spake with me. And, being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks; and in the 
midst of the candlesticks One like unto the Son of man, clothed with a garment 
reaching to the feet, and girt about the paps with a golden girdle; and His head 
and His hairs were white, as white as wool, and as snow; and His eyes were as a 
flame of fire; and His feet like unto fine brass, as if He burned in a furnace. 
And His voice [was] as the voice of waters; and He had in His right hand seven 
stars; and out of His mouth went a sharp two-edged sword; and His countenance 
was as the sun shining in his strength." 
For in these words He sets forth something of the glory [which He has received] 
from His Father, as [where He makes mention of] the head; something in reference 
to the priestly office also, as in the case of the long garment reaching to the 
feet. And this was the reason why Moses vested the high priest after this 
fashion. Something also alludes to the end [of all things], as [where He speaks 
of] the fine brass burning in the fire, which denotes the power of faith, and 
the continuing instant in prayer, because of the consuming fire which is to come 
at the end of time. But when John could not endure the sight (for he says, "I 
fell at his feet as dead; " 
that what was written might come to pass: "No man sees God, and shall 
live" 
), and the Word reviving him, and reminding him that it was He upon whose bosom 
he had leaned at supper, when he put the question as to who should betray Him, 
declared: "I am the first and the last, and He who liveth, and was dead, and 
behold I am alive for evermore, and have the keys of death and of hell." And 
after these things, seeing the same Lord in a second vision, he says: "For I saw 
in the midst of the throne, and of the four living creatures, and in the midst 
of the elders, a Lamb standing as it had been slain, having seven horns, and 
seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent forth into all the 
earth." 
And again, he says, speaking of this very same Lamb: "And behold a white horse; 
and He that sat upon him was called Faithful and True; and in righteousness doth 
He judge and make war. And His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on His head 
were many crowns; having a name written, that no man knoweth but Himself: and He 
was girded around with a vesture sprinkled with blood: and His name is called 
The Word of God. And the armies of heaven followed Him upon white horses, 
clothed in pure white linen. And out of His mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with 
it He may smite the nations; and He shall rule (pascet) them with a rod 
of iron: and He treadeth the wine-press of the fierceness of the wrath of God 
Almighty. And He hath upon His vesture and upon His thigh a name written, King 
of Kings and Lord of Lords." 
Thus does the Word of God always preserve the outlines, as it were, of things to 
come, and points out to men the various forms (species), as it were, of 
the dispensations of the Father, teaching us the things pertaining to God.
12. However, it was not by means of visions alone which were seen, and words 
which were proclaimed, but also in actual works, that He was beheld by the 
prophets, in order that through them He might prefigure and show forth future 
events beforehand. For this reason did Hosea the prophet take "a wife of 
whoredoms," prophesying by means of the action, "that in committing fornication 
the earth should fornicate from the Lord," 
that is, the men who are upon the earth; and from men of this stamp it will be 
God's good pleasure to take out 
a Church which shall be sanctified by fellowship with His Son, just as that 
woman was sanctified by intercourse with the prophet. And for this reason, Paul 
declares that the "unbelieving wife is sanctified by the believing 
husband." 
Then again, the prophet names his children, "Not having obtained mercy," and 
"Not a people," 
in order that, as says the apostle, "what was not a people may become a people; 
and she who did not obtain mercy may obtain mercy. And it shall come to pass, 
that in the place where it was said, This is not a people, there shall they be 
called the children of the living God." 
That which had been done typically through his actions by the prophet, the 
apostle proves to have been done truly by Christ in the Church. Thus, too, did 
Moses also take to wife an Ethiopian woman, whom he thus made an Israelitish 
one, showing by anticipation that the wild olive tree is grafted into the 
cultivated olive, and made to partake of its fatness. For as He who was born 
Christ according to the flesh, had indeed to be sought after by the people in 
order to be slain, but was to be set free in Egypt, that is, among the Gentiles, 
to sanctify those who were there in a state of infancy, from whom also He 
perfected His Church in that place (for Egypt was Gentile from the beginning, as 
was Ethiopia also); for this reason, by means of the marriage of Moses, was 
shown forth the marriage of the Word; 
and by means of the Ethiopian bride, the Church taken from among the Gentiles 
was made manifest; and those who do detract from, accuse, and deride it, shall 
not be pure. For they shall be full of leprosy, and expelled from the camp of 
the righteous. Thus also did Rahab the harlot, while condemning herself, 
inasmuch as she was a Gentile, guilty of all sins, nevertheless receive the 
three spies, 
who were spying out all the land, and hid them at her home; [which three were] 
doubtless [a type of] the Father and the Son, together with the Holy Spirit. And 
when the entire city in which she lived fell to ruins at the sounding of the 
seven trumpets, Rahab the harlot was preserved, when all was over [in 
ultimis], together with all her house, through faith of the scarlet sign; as 
the Lord also declared to those who did not receive His advent,-the Pharisees, 
no doubt, nullify the sign of the scarlet thread, which meant the passover, and 
the redemption and exodus of the people from Egypt,-when He said, "The publicans 
and the harlots go into the kingdom of heaven before you." 


Chapter XXI.-Abraham's Faith Was 
  Identical with Ours; This Faith Was Prefigured by the Words and Actions of the 
  Old Patriarchs.
1. But that our faith was also prefigured in Abraham, and that he was the 
patriarch of our faith, and, as it were, the prophet of it, the apostle has very 
fully taught, when he says in the Epistle to the Galatians: "He therefore that 
ministereth to you the Spirit, and worketh miracles among you, [doeth he it] by 
the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith? Even as Abraham believed God, 
and it was accounted unto him for righteousness. Know ye therefore, that they 
which are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham. But the Scripture, 
foreseeing that God would justify the heathen through faith, announced 
beforehand unto Abraham, that in him all nations should be blessed. So then they 
which be of faith shall be blessed with faithful Abraham." 
For which [reasons the apostle] declared that this man was not only the prophet 
of faith, but also the father of those who from among the Gentiles believe in 
Jesus Christ, because his faith and ours are one and the same: for he believed 
in things future, as if they were already accomplished, because of the promise 
of God; and in like manner do we also, because of the promise of God, behold 
through faith that inheritance [laid up for us] in the [future] kingdom.
2. The history of Isaac, too, is not without a symbolical character. For in 
the Epistle to the Romans, the apostle declares: "Moreover, when Rebecca had 
conceived by one, even by our father Isaac," she received answer 
from the Word, "that the purpose of God according to election might stand, not 
of works, but of Him that calleth, it was said unto her, Two nations are in thy 
womb, and two manner of people are in thy body; and the one people shall 
overcome the other, and the eider shall serve the younger." 
From which it is evident, that not only [were there] prophecies of the 
patriarchs, but also that the children brought forth by Rebecca were a 
prediction of the two nations; and that the one should be indeed the greater, 
but the other the less; that the one also should be under bondage, but the other 
free; but [that both should be] of one and the same father. Our God, one and the 
same, is also their God, who knows hidden things, who knoweth all things before 
they can come to pass; and for this reason has He said, "Jacob have I loved, but 
Esau have I hated." 

3. If any one, again, will look into Jacob's actions, he shall find them not 
destitute of meaning, but full of import with regard to the dispensations. Thus, 
in the first place, at his birth, since he laid hold on his brother's 
heel, 
he was called Jacob, that is, the supplanter-one who holds, but is not 
held; binding the feet, but not being bound; striving and conquering; grasping 
in his hand his adversary's heel, that is, victory. For to this end was the Lord 
born, the type of whose birth he set forth beforehand, of whom also John says in 
the Apocalypse: "He went forth conquering, that He should conquer." 
In the next place, [Jacob] received the rights of the first-born, when his 
brother looked on them with contempt; even as also the younger nation received 
Him, Christ, the first-begotten, when the elder nation rejected Him, saying, "We 
have no king but Caesar." 
But in Christ every blessing [is summed up], and therefore the latter people has 
snatched away the blessings of the former from the Father, just as Jacob took 
away the blessing of this Esau. For which cause his brother suffered the plots 
and persecutions of a brother, just as the Church suffers this self-same thing 
from the Jews. In a foreign country were the twelve tribes born, the race of 
Israel, inasmuch as Christ was also, in a strange country, to generate the 
twelve-pillared foundation of the Church. Various coloured sheep were allotted 
to this Jacob as his wages; and the wages of Christ are human beings, who from 
various and diverse nations come together into one cohort of faith, as the 
Father promised Him, saying, "Ask of Me, and I will give Thee the heathen for 
Thine inheritance, the uttermost parts of the earth for Thy possession." 
And as from the multitude of his sons the prophets of the Lord [afterwards] 
arose, there was every necessity that Jacob should beget sons from the two 
sisters, even as Christ did from the two laws of one and the same Father; and in 
like manner also from the handmaids, indicating that Christ should raise up sons 
of God, both from freemen and from slaves after the flesh, bestowing upon all, 
in the same manner, the gift of the Spirit, who vivifies us. 
But he (Jacob) did all things for the sake of the younger, she who had the 
handsome eyes, 
Rachel, who prefigured the Church, for which Christ endured patiently; who at 
that time, indeed, by means of His patriarchs and prophets, was prefiguring and 
declaring beforehand future things, fulfilling His part by anticipation in the 
dispensations of God, and accustoming His inheritance to obey God, and to pass 
through the world as in a state of pilgrimage, to follow His word, and to 
indicate beforehand things to come. For with God there is nothing without 
purpose or due signification.

Chapter XXII.-Christ Did Not Come 
  for the Sake of the Men of One Age Only, But for All Who, Living Righteously 
  and Piously, Had Believed Upon Him; And for Those, Too, Who Shall 
  Believe.
1 Now in the last days, when the fulness of the time of liberty had arrived, 
the Word Himself did by Himself "wash away the filth of the daughters of 
Zion," 
when He washed the disciples' feet with His own hands. 
For this is the end of the human race inheriting God; that as in the beginning, 
by means of our first [parents], we were all brought into bondage, by being made 
subject to death; so at last, by means of the New Man, all who from the 
beginning [were His] disciples, having been cleansed and washed from things 
pertaining to death, should come to the life of God. For He who washed the feet 
of the disciples sanctified the entire body, and rendered it clean. For this 
reason, too, He administered food to them in a recumbent posture, indicating 
that those who were lying in the earth were they to whom He came to impart life. 
As Jeremiah declares, "The holy Lord remembered His dead Israel, who slept in 
the land of sepulture; and He descended to them to make known to them His 
salvation, that they might be saved." 
For this reason also were the eyes of the disciples weighed down when Christ's 
passion was approaching; and when, in the first instance, the Lord found them 
sleeping, He let it pass,-thus indicating the patience of God in regard to the 
state of slumber in which men lay; but coming the second time, He aroused them, 
and made them stand up, in token that His passion is the arousing of His 
sleeping disciples, on whose account "He also descended into the lower parts of 
the earth," 
to behold with His eyes the state of those who were resting from their 
labours, 
in reference to whom He did also declare to the disciples: "Many prophets and 
righteous men have desired to see and hear what ye do see and hear." 

2. For it was not merely for those who believed on Him in the time of 
Tiberius Caesar that Christ came, nor did the Father exercise His providence for 
the men only who are now alive, but for all men altogether, who from the 
beginning, according to their capacity, in their generation have both feared and 
loved God, and practised justice and piety towards their neighbours, and have 
earnestly desired to see Christ, and to hear His voice. Wherefore He shall, at 
His second coming, first rouse from their sleep all persons of this description, 
and shall raise them up, as well as the rest who shall be judged, and give them 
a place in His kingdom. For it is truly "one God who" directed the patriarchs 
towards His dispensations, and "has justified the circumcision by faith, and the 
uncircumcision through faith." 
For as in the first we were prefigured, so, on the other hand, are they 
represented in us, that is, in the Church, and receive the recompense for those 
things which they accomplished.

Chapter XXIII.-The Patriarchs and 
  Prophets by Pointing Out the Advent of Christ, Fortified Thereby, as It Were, 
  the Way of Posterity to the Faith of Christ; And So the Labours of the 
  Apostles Were Lessened Inasmuch as They Gathered in the Fruits of the Labours 
  of Others.
1. For which reason the Lord declared to the disciples: "Behold, I say unto 
you, Lift up your eyes, and look upon the districts (regiones), for they 
are white [already] to harvest. For the harvest-man receiveth wages, and 
gathereth fruit unto life eternal, that both he that soweth and he that reapeth 
may rejoice together. For in this is the saying true, that one soweth and 
another reapeth. For I have sent you forward to reap that whereon ye bestowed no 
labour; other men have laboured, and ye have entered into their labours." 
Who, then, are they that have laboured, and have helped forward the 
dispensations of God? It is clear that they are the patriarchs and prophets, who 
even prefigured our faith, and disseminated through the earth the advent of the 
Son of God, who and what He should be: so that posterity, possessing the fear of 
God, might easily accept the advent of Christ, having been instructed by the 
prophets. And for this reason it was, that when Joseph became aware that Mary 
was with child, and was minded to put her away privily, the angel said to him in 
sleep: "Fear not to take to thee Mary thy wife; for that which is conceived in 
her is of the Holy Ghost. For she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call 
His name Jesus; for He shall save His people from their sins." 
And exhorting him [to this], he added: "Now all this has been done, that it 
might be fulfilled which was spoken from the Lord by the prophet, saying, 
Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and His name 
shall be called Emmanuel; "thus influencing him by the words of the prophet, and 
warding off blame from Mary, pointing out that it was she who was the virgin 
mentioned by Isaiah beforehand, who should give birth to Emmanuel. Wherefore, 
when Joseph was convinced beyond all doubt, he both did take Mary, and joyfully 
yielded obedience in regard to all the rest of the education of Christ, 
undertaking a journey into Egypt and back again, and then a removal to Nazareth. 
[For this reason, ] those who knew not the Scriptures nor the promise of God, 
nor the dispensation of Christ, at last called him the father of the child. For 
this reason, too, did the Lord Himself read at Capernaum the prophecies of 
Isaiah: 
"The Spirit of the Lord is upon Me, because He hath anointed Me; to preach the 
Gospel to the poor hath He sent Me, to heal the broken-hearted, to preach 
deliverance to the captives, and sight to the blind." 
At the same time, showing that it was He Himself who had been foretold by Esaias 
the prophet, He said to them: "This day is this Scripture fulfilled in your 
ears."
2. For this reason, also, Philip, when he had discovered the eunuch of the 
Ethiopians' queen reading these words which had been written: "He was led as a 
sheep to the slaughter; and as a lamb is dumb before the shearer, so He opened 
not His mouth: in His humiliation His judgment was taken away; " 
and all the rest which the prophet proceeded to relate in regard to His passion 
and His coming in the flesh, and how He was dishonoured by those who did not 
believe Him; easily persuaded him to believe on Him, that He was Christ Jesus, 
who was crucified under Pontius Pilate, and suffered whatsoever the prophet had 
predicted, and that He was the Son of God, who gives eternal life to men. And 
immediately when [Philip] had baptized him, he departed from him. For nothing 
else [but baptism] was wanting to him who had been already instructed by the 
prophets: he was not ignorant of God the Father, nor of the rules as to the 
[proper] manner of life, but was merely ignorant of the advent of the Son of 
God, which, when he had become acquainted with, in a short space of time, he 
went on his way rejoicing, to be the herald in Ethiopia of Christ's advent. 
Therefore Philip had no great labour to go through with regard to this man, 
because he was already prepared in the fear of God by the prophets. For this 
reason, too, did the apostles, collecting the sheep which had perished of the 
house of Israel, and discoursing to them from the Scriptures, prove that this 
crucified Jesus was the Christ, the Son of the living God; and they persuaded a 
great multitude, who, however, [already] possessed the fear of God. And there 
were, in one day, baptized three, and four, and five thousand men. 


Chapter XXIV.-The Conversion of the 
  Gentiles Was More Difficult Than that of the Jews; The Labours of Those 
  Apostles, Therefore Who Engaged in the Former Task, Were Greater Than Those 
  Who Undertook the Latter.
I. Wherefore also Paul, since he was the apostle of the Gentiles, says, "I 
laboured more than they all." 
For the instruction of the former, [viz., the Jews, ] was an easy task, because 
they could allege proofs from the Scriptures, and because they, who were in the 
habit of hearing Moses and the prophets, did also readily receive the 
First-begotten of the dead, and the Prince of the life of God,-Him who, by the 
spreading forth of hands, did destroy Amalek, and vivify man from the wound of 
the serpent, by means of faith which was [exercised] towards Him. As I have 
pointed out in the preceding book, the apostle did, in the first place, instruct 
the Gentiles to depart from the superstition of idols, and to worship one God, 
the Creator of heaven and earth, and the Framer of the whole creation; and that 
His Son was His Word, by whom He founded all things; and that He, in the last 
times, was made a man among men; that He reformed the human race, but destroyed 
and conquered the enemy of man, and gave to His handiwork victory against the 
adversary. But although they who were of the circumcision still did not obey the 
words of God, for they were despisers, yet they were previously instructed not 
to commit adultery, nor fornication, nor theft, nor fraud; and that whatsoever 
things are done to our neighbours' prejudice, were evil, and detested by God. 
Wherefore also they did readily agree to abstain from these things, because they 
had been thus instructed.
2. But they were bound to teach the Gentiles also this very thing, that works 
of such a nature were wicked, prejudicial, and useless, and destructive to those 
who engaged in them. Wherefore he who had received the apostolate to the 
Gentiles, 
did labour more than those who preached the Son of God among them of the 
circumcision. For they were assisted by the Scriptures, which the Lord confirmed 
and tiff-filled, in coming such as He had been announced; but here, [in the case 
of the Gentiles, ] there was a certain foreign erudition, and a new doctrine [to 
be received, namely], that the gods of the nations not only were no gods at all, 
but even the idols of demons; and that there is one God, who is "above all 
principality, and dominion, and power, and every name which is named; " 
and that His Word, invisible by nature, was made palpable and visible among men, 
and did descend "to death, even the death of the cross; " 
also, that they who believe in Him shall be incorruptible and not subject to 
suffering, and shall receive the kingdom of heaven. These things, too, were 
preached to the Gentiles by word, without [the aid of] the Scriptures: 
wherefore, also, they who preached among the Gentiles underwent greater labour. 
But, on the other hand, the faith of the Gentiles is proved to be of a more 
noble description, since they followed the word of God without the instruction 
[derived] from the [sacred] writings (sine instructione literarum).

Chapter XXV.-Both Covenants Were 
  Prefigured in Abraham, and in the Labour of Tamar; There Was, However, But One 
  and the Same God to Each Covenant.
I. For thus it had behoved the sons of Abraham [to be], whom God has raised 
up to him from the stones, 
and caused to take a place beside him who was made the chief and the forerunner 
of our faith (who did also receive the covenant of circumcision, after that 
justification by faith which had pertained to him, when he was yet in 
uncircumcision, so that in him both covenants might be prefigured, that he might 
be the father of all who follow the Word of God, and who sustain a life of 
pilgrimage in this world, that is, of those who from among the circumcision and 
of those from among the uncircumcision are faithful, even as also "Christ 
is the chief corner-stone" sustaining all things); and He gathered into the one 
faith of Abraham those who, from either covenant, are eligible for God's 
building. But this faith which is in uncircumcision, as connecting the end with 
the beginning, has been made [both] the first and the last. For, as I have 
shown, it existed in Abraham antecedently to circumcision, as it also did in the 
rest of the righteous who pleased God: and in these last times, it again sprang 
up among mankind through the coming of the Lord. But circumcision and the law of 
works occupied the intervening period. 

2. This fact is indeed set forth by many other [occurrences], but typically 
by [the history of] Thamar, Judah's daughter-in-law. 
For when she had conceived twins, one of them put forth his hand first; and as 
the midwife supposed that he was the first-born, she bound a scarlet token on 
his hand. But after this had been done, and he had drawn back his hand, his 
brother Phares came forth the first; then, after him, Zara, upon whom was the 
scarlet line, [was born] the second: the Scripture clearly pointing out that 
people which possessed the scarlet sign, that is, faith in a state of 
circumcision, which was shown beforehand, indeed, in the patriarchs first; but 
after that withdrawn, that his brother might be born; and also, in like manner, 
him who was the elder, as being born in the second place, [him] who was 
distinguished by the scarlet token which was [fastened] on him, that is, the 
passion of the Just One, which was prefigured from the beginning in Abel, and 
described by the prophets, but perfected in the last times in the Son of 
God.
3. For it was requisite that certain facts should be announced beforehand by 
the fathers in a paternal manner, and others prefigured by the prophets in a 
legal one, but others, described after the form of Christ, by those who have 
received the adoption; while in one God are all things shown forth. For although 
Abraham was one, he did in himself prefigure the two covenants, in which some 
indeed have sown, while others have reaped; for it is said, "In this is the 
saying true, that it is one `people' who sows, but another who shall reap; 
" 
but it is one God who bestows things suitable upon both-seed to the sower, but 
bread for the reaper to eat. Just as it is one that planteth, and another who 
watereth, but one God who giveth the increase. 
For the patriarchs and prophets sowed the word [concerning] Christ, but the 
Church reaped, that is, received the fruit. For this reason, too, do these very 
men (the prophets) also pray to have a dwelling-place in it, as Jeremiah says, 
"Who will give me in the desert the last dwelling-place? " 
in order that both the sower and the reaper may rejoice together in the kingdom 
of Christ, who is present with all those who were from the beginning approved by 
God, who granted them His Word to be present with them. 


Chapter XXVI.-The Treasure Hid in 
  the Scriptures is Christ; The True Exposition of the Scriptures is to Be Found 
  in the Church Alone.
1. If any one, therefore, reads the Scriptures with attention, he will find 
in them an account of Christ, and a foreshadowing of the new calling 
(vocationis). For Christ is the treasure which was hid in the 
field, 
that is, in this world (for "the field is the world" 
); but the treasure hid in the Scriptures is Christ, since He was pointed out by 
means of types and parables. Hence His human nature could not 
be understood, prior to the consummation of those things which had been 
predicted, that is, the advent of Christ. And therefore it was said to Daniel 
the prophet: "Shut up the words, and seal the book even to the time of 
consummation, until many learn, and knowledge be completed. For at that time, 
when the dispersion shall be accomplished, they shall know all these 
things." 
But Jeremiah also says, "In the last days they shall understand these 
things." 
For every prophecy, before its fulfilment, is to men [full of] enigmas and 
ambiguities. But when the time has arrived, and the prediction has come to pass, 
then the prophecies have a clear and certain exposition. And for this reason, 
indeed, when at this present time the law is read to the Jews, it is like a 
fable; for they do not possess the explanation of all things pertaining to the 
advent of the Son of God, which took place in human nature; but when it is read 
by the Christians, it is a treasure, hid indeed in a field, but brought to light 
by the cross of Christ, and explained, both enriching the understanding of men, 
and showing forth the wisdom of God and declaring His dispensations with regard 
to man, and forming the kingdom of Christ beforehand, and preaching by 
anticipation the inheritance of the holy Jerusalem, and proclaiming beforehand 
that the man who loves God shall arrive at such excellency as even to see God, 
and hear His word, and from the hearing of His discourse be glorified to such an 
extent, that others cannot behold the glory of his countenance, as was said by 
Daniel: "Those who do understand, shall shine as the brightness of the 
firmament, and many of the righteous 
as the stars for ever and ever." 
Thus, then, I have shown it to be, 
if any one read the Scriptures. For thus it was that the Lord discoursed with, 
the disciples after His resurrection from the dead, proving to them from the 
Scriptures themselves "that Christ must suffer, and enter into His glory, and 
that remission of sins should be preached in His name throughout all the 
world." 
And the disciple will be perfected, and [rendered] like the householder, "who 
bringeth forth from his treasure things new and old." 

2. Wherefore it is incumbent to obey the presbyters who are in the 
Church,-those who, as I have shown, possess the succession from the apostles; 
those who, together with the succession of the episcopate, have received the 
certain gift of truth, according to the good pleasure of the Father. But [it is 
also incumbent] to hold in suspicion others who depart from the primitive 
succession, and assemble themselves together in any place whatsoever, [looking 
upon them] either as heretics of perverse minds, or as schismatics puffed up and 
self-pleasing, or again as hypocrites, acting thus for the sake of lucre and 
vainglory. For all these have fallen from the truth. And the heretics, indeed, 
who bring strange fire to the altar of God-namely, strange doctrines-shall be 
burned up by the fire from heaven, as were Nadab and Abiud. 
But such as rise up in opposition to the truth, and exhort others against the 
Church of God, [shall] remain among those in hell (apud inferos), being 
swallowed up by an earthquake, even as those who were with Chore, Dathan, and 
Abiron. 
But those who cleave asunder, and separate the unity of the Church, [shall] 
receive from God the same punishment as Jeroboam did. 

3. Those, however, who are believed to be presbyters by many, but serve their 
own lusts, and, do not place the fear of God supreme in their hearts, but 
conduct themselves with contempt towards others, and are puffed up with the 
pride of holding the chief seat, and work evil deeds in secret, saying, "No man 
sees us," shall be convicted by the Word, who does not judge after outward 
appearance (secundum gloriam), nor looks upon the countenance, but the 
heart; and they shall hear those words, to be found in Daniel the prophet: "O 
thou seed of Canaan, and not of Judah, beauty hath deceived thee, and lust 
perverted thy heart. 
Thou that art waxen old in wicked days, now thy sins which thou hast committed 
aforetime are come to light; for thou hast pronounced false judgments, and hast 
been accustomed to condemn the innocent, and to let the guilty go free, albeit 
the Lord saith, The innocent and the righteous shalt thou not slay." 
Of whom also did the Lord say: "But if the evil servant shall say in his heart, 
My lord delayeth his coming, and shall begin to smite the man-servants and 
maidens, and to eat and drink and be drunken; the lord of that servant shall 
come in a day that he looketh not for him, and in an hour that he is not aware 
of, and shall cut him asunder, and appoint him his portion with the 
unbelievers." 

4. From all such persons, therefore, it behooves us to keep aloof, but to 
adhere to those who, as I have already observed, do hold the doctrine of the 
apostles, and who, together with the order of priesthood (presbyterii 
ordine), display sound speech and blameless conduct for the confirmation and 
correction of others. 
In this way, Moses, to whom such a leadership was entrusted, relying on a good 
conscience, cleared himself before God, saying, "I have not in covetousness 
taken anything belonging to one of these men, nor have I done evil to one of 
them." 
In this way, too, Samuel, who judged the people so many years, and bore rule 
over Israel without any pride, in the end cleared himself, saying, "I have 
walked before you from my childhood even unto this day: answer me in the sight 
of God, and before His anointed (Christi ejus); whose ox or whose ass of 
yours have I taken, or over whom have I tyrannized, or whom have I oppressed? or 
if I have received from the hand of any a bribe or [so much as] a shoe, speak 
out against me, and I will restore it to you." 
And when the people had said to him, "Thou hast not tyrannized, neither hast 
thou oppressed us neither hast thou taken ought of any man's hand," he called 
the Lord to witness, saying, "The Lord is witness, and His Anointed is witness 
this day, that ye have not found ought in my hand. And they said to him, He is 
witness." In this strain also the Apostle Paul, inasmuch as he had a good 
conscience, said to the Corinthians: "For we are not as many, who corrupt the 
Word of God: but as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God speak we in 
Christ; " 
"We have injured no man, corrupted no man, circumvented no man." 

5. Such presbyters does the Church nourish, of whom also the prophet says: "I 
will give thy rulers in peace, and thy bishops in righteousness." 
Of whom also did the Lord declare, "Who then shall be a faithful steward 
(actor), good and wise, whom the Lord sets over His household, to give 
them their meat in due season? Blessed is that servant whom his Lord, when He 
cometh, shall find so doing." 
Paul then, teaching us where one may find such, says, "God hath placed in the 
Church, first, apostles; secondly, prophets; thirdly, teachers." 
Where, therefore, the gifts of the Lord have been placed, there it behoves us to 
learn the truth, [namely, ] from those who possess that succession of the Church 
which is from the apostles, 
and among whom exists that which is sound and blameless in conduct, as well as 
that which is unadulterated and incorrupt in speech. For these also preserve 
this faith of ours in one God who created all things; and they increase that 
love [which we have] for the Son of God, who accomplished such marvellous 
dispensations for our sake: and they expound the Scriptures to us without 
danger, neither blaspheming God, nor dishonouring the patriarchs, nor despising 
the prophets.

Chapter XXVII-The Sins of the Men of 
  Old Time, Which Incurred the Displeasure of God, Were, by His Providence, 
  Committed to Writing, that We Might Derive Instruction Thereby, and Not Be 
  Filled with Pride. We Must Not, Therefore, Infer that There Was Another God 
  Than He Whom Christ Preached; We Should Rather Fear, Lest the One and the Same 
  God Who Inflicted Punishment on the Ancients, Should Bring Down Heavier Upon 
  Us.
1. As I have heard from a certain presbyter, 
who had heard it from those who had seen the apostles, and from those who had 
been their disciples, the punishment [declared] in Scripture was sufficient for 
the ancients in regard to what they did without the Spirit's guidance. For as 
God is no respecter of persons, He inflicted a proper punishment on deeds 
displeasing to Him. As in the case of David, 
when he suffered persecution from Saul for righteousness' sake, and fled from 
King Saul, and would not avenge himself of his enemy, he both sung the advent of 
Christ, and instructed the nations in wisdom, and did everything after the 
Spirit's guidance, and pleased God. But when his lust prompted him to take 
Bathsheba, the wife of Uriah, the Scripture said concerning him, "Now, the thing 
(sermo) which David had done appeared wicked in the eyes of the Lord; 
" 
and Nathan the prophet is sent to him, pointing out to him his crime, in order 
that he, passing sentence upon and condemning himself, might obtain mercy and 
forgiveness from Christ: "And [Nathan] said to him, There were two men in one 
city; the one rich, and the other poor. The rich man had exceeding many flocks 
and herds; but the poor man had nothing, save one little ewe-lamb, which he 
possessed, and nourished up; and it had been with him and with his children 
together: it did eat of his own bread, and drank of his cup, and was to him as a 
daughter. And there came a guest unto the rich man; and he spared to take of the 
flock of his own ewe-lambs, and from the herds of his own oxen, to entertain the 
guest; but he took the ewe-lamb of the poor man, and set it before the man that 
had come unto him. And David's anger was greatly kindled against the man; and he 
said to Nathan, As the Lord liveth, the man that hath done this thing shall 
surely die (filius mortis est): and he shall restore the lamb fourfold, 
because he hath done this thing, and because he had no pity for the poor man. 
And Nathan said unto him, Thou art the man who hast done this." 
And then he proceeds with the rest [of the narrative], upbraiding him, and 
recounting God's benefits towards him, and [showing him] how much his conduct 
had displeased the Lord. For [he declared] that works of this nature were not 
pleasing to God, but that great wrath was suspended over his house. David, 
however, was struck with remorse on heating this, and exclaimed, "I have sinned 
against the Lord; "and he sung a penitential psalm, waiting for the coming of 
the Lord, who washes and makes clean the man who had been fast bound with [the 
chain of] sin. In like manner it was with regard to Solomon, while he continued 
to judge uprightly, and to declare the wisdom of God, and built the temple as 
the type of truth, and set forth the glories of God, and announced the peace 
about to come upon the nations, and prefigured the kingdom of Christ, and spake 
three thousand parables about the Lord's advent, and five thousand songs, 
singing praise to God, and expounded the wisdom of God in creation, 
[discoursing] as to the nature of every tree, every herb, and of all fowls, 
quadrupeds, and fishes; and he said, "Will God whom the heavens cannot contain, 
really dwell with men upon the earth? " 
And he pleased God, and was the admiration of all; and all kings of the earth 
sought an interview with him (quaerebant faciem ejus) that they might 
hear the wisdom which God had conferred upon him. 
The queen of the south, too, came to him from the ends of the earth, to 
ascertain the wisdom that was in him: 
she whom the Lord also referred to as one who should rise up in the judgment 
with the nations of those men who do hear His words, and do not believe in Him, 
and should condemn them, inasmuch as she submitted herself to the wisdom 
announced by the servant of God, while these men despised that wisdom which 
proceeded directly from the Son of God. For Solomon was a servant, but Christ is 
indeed the Son of God, and the Lord of Solomon. While, therefore, he served God 
without blame, and ministered to His dispensations, then was he glorified: but 
when he took wives from all nations, and permitted them to set up idols in 
Israel, the Scripture spake thus concerning him: "And King Solomon was a lover 
of women, and he took to himself foreign women; and it came to pass, when 
Solomon was old, his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God. And the 
foreign women turned away his heart after strange gods. And Solomon did evil in 
the sight of the Lord: he did not walk after the Lord, as did David his father. 
And the Lord was angry with Solomon; for his heart was not perfect with the 
Lord, as was the heart of David his father." 
The Scripture has thus sufficiently reproved him, as the presbyter remarked, in 
order that no flesh may glory in the sight of the Lord.
2. It was for this reason, too, that the Lord descended into the regions 
beneath the earth, preaching His advent there also, and [declaring] the 
remission of sins received by those who believe in Him. 
Now all those believed in Him who had hope towards Him, that is, those who 
proclaimed His advent, and submitted to His dispensations, the righteous men, 
the prophets, and the patriarchs, to whom He remitted sins in the same way as He 
did to us, which sins we should not lay to their charge, if we would not despise 
the grace of God. For as these men did not impute unto us (the Gentiles) our 
transgressions, which we wrought before Christ was manifested among us, so also 
it is not right that we should lay blame upon those who sinned before Christ's 
coming. For "all men come short of the glory of God," 
and are not justified of themselves, but by the advent of the Lord,-they who 
earnestly direct their eyes towards His light. And it is for our instruction 
that their actions have been committed to writing, that we might know, in the 
first place, that our God and theirs is one, and that sins do not please Him 
although committed by men of renown; and in the second place, that we should 
keep from wickedness. For if these men of old time, who preceded us in the gifts 
[bestowed upon them], and for whom the Son of God had not yet suffered, when 
they committed any sin and served fleshly lusts, were rendered objects of such 
disgrace, what shall the men of the present day suffer, who have despised the 
Lord's coming, and become the slaves of their own lusts? And truly the death of 
the Lord became [the means of] healing and remission of sins to the former, but 
Christ shall not die again in behalf of those who now commit sin, for death 
shall no more have dominion over Him; but the Son shall come in the glory of the 
Father, requiring from His stewards and dispensers the money which He had 
entrusted to them, with usury; and from those to whom He had given most shall He 
demand most. We ought not, therefore, as that presbyter remarks, to be puffed 
up, nor be severe upon those of old time, but ought ourselves to fear, lest 
perchance, after [we have come to] the knowledge of Christ, if we do things 
displeasing to God, we obtain no further forgiveness of sins, but be shut out 
from His kingdom. 
And therefore it was that Paul said, "For if [God] spared not the natural 
branches, [take heed] lest He also spare not thee, who, when thou wert a wild 
olive tree, wert grafted into the fatness of the olive tree, and wert made a 
partaker of its fatness." 

3. Thou wilt notice, too, that the transgressions of the common people have 
been described in like manner, not for the sake of those who did then 
transgress, but as a means of instruction unto us, and that we should understand 
that it is one and the same God against whom these men sinned, and against whom 
certain persons do now transgress from among those who profess to have believed 
in Him. But this also, [as the presbyter states, ] has Paul declared most 
plainly in the Epistle to the Corinthians, when he says, "Brethren, I would not 
that ye should be ignorant, how that all our fathers were under the cloud, and 
were all baptized unto Moses in the sea, and did all eat the same spiritual 
meat, and did all drink the same spiritual drink: for they drank of that 
spiritual rock that followed them; and the rock was Christ. But with many of 
them God was not well pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. These 
things were for our example (in figuram nostri), to the intent that we 
should not lust after evil things, as they also lusted; neither be ye idolaters, 
as were some of them, as it is written: 
The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play. Neither let us commit 
fornication, as some of them also did, and fell in one day three and twenty 
thousand. Neither let us tempt Christ, as some of them also tempted, and were 
destroyed of serpents. Neither murmur ye, as some of them murmured, and were 
destroyed of the destroyer. But all these things happened to them in a figure, 
and were written for our admonition, upon whom the end of the world 
(saeculorum) is come. Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth, take 
heed lest he fall." 

4. Since therefore, beyond all doubt and contradiction, the apostle shows 
that there is one and the same God, who did both enter into judgment with these 
former things, and who does inquire into those of the present time, and points 
out why these things have been committed to writing; all these men are found to 
be unlearned and presumptuous, nay, even destitute of common sense, who, because 
of the transgressions of them of old time, and because of the disobedience of a 
vast number of them, do allege that there was indeed one God of these men, and 
that He was the maker of the world, and existed in a state of degeneracy; but 
that there was another Father declared by Christ, and that this Being is He who 
has been conceived by the mind of each of them; not understanding that as, in 
the former case, God showed Himself not well pleased in many stances towards 
those who sinned, so also in the latter, "many are called, but few are 
chosen." 
As then the unrighteous, the idolaters, and fornicators perished, so also is it 
now: for both the Lord declares, that such persons are sent into eternal 
fire; 
and the apostle says, "Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the 
kingdom of God? Be not deceived: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor 
adulterers, not effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves, 
nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the 
kingdom of God." 
And as it was not to those who are without that he said these things, but to us. 
lest we should be cast forth from the kingdom of God, by doing any such thing, 
he proceeds to say, "And such indeed were ye; but ye are washed, but ye are 
sanctified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and by the Spirit of our God." 
And just as then, those who led vicious lives, and put other people astray, were 
condemned and cast out, so also even now the offending eye is plucked out, and 
the foot and the hand, lest the rest of the body perish in like manner. 
And we have the precept: "If any man that is called a brother be a fornicator, 
or covetous, or an idolater, or a railer, or a drunkard, or an extortioner, with 
such an one no not to eat." 
And again does the apostle say, "Let no man deceive you with vain words; for 
because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the sons of mistrust. Be 
not ye therefore par-takers with them." 
And as then the condemnation of sinners extended to others who approved of them, 
and joined in their society; so also is it the case at present, that "a little 
leaven leaveneth the whole lump." 
And as the wrath of God did then descend upon the unrighteous, here also does 
the apostle likewise say: "For the wrath of God shall be revealed from heaven 
against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of those men who hold back the truth 
in unrighteousness." 
And as, in those times, vengeance came from God upon the Egyptians who were 
subjecting Israel to unjust punishment, so is it now, the Lord truly declaring, 
"And shall not God avenge His own elect, which cry day and night unto Him? I 
tell you, that He will avenge them speedily." 
So says the apostle, in like manner, in the Epistle to the Thessalonians: 
"Seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that 
trouble you; and to you who are troubled rest with us, at the revealing of our 
Lord Jesus Christ from heaven with His mighty angels, and in a flame of fire, to 
take vengeance upon those who know not God, and upon those that obey not the 
Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ: who shall also be punished with everlasting 
destruction from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of His power; when 
He shall come to be glorified in His saints, and to be admired in all them who 
have believed in Him." 


Chapter XXVIII.-Those Persons Prove 
  Themselves Senseless Who Exaggerate the Mercy of Christ, But are Silent as to 
  the Judgment, and Look Only at the More Abundant Grace of the New Testament; 
  But, Forgetful of the Greater Degree of Perfection Which It Demands from Us, 
  They Endeavour to Show that There is Another God Beyond Him Who Created the 
  World.
1. Inasmuch, then, as in both Testaments there is the same righteousness of 
God [displayed] when God takes vengeance, in the one case indeed typically, 
temporarily, and more moderately; but in the other, really, enduringly, and more 
rigidly: for the fire is eternal, and the wrath of God which shall be revealed 
from heaven from the face of our Lord (as David also says, "But the face of the 
Lord is against them that do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them from the 
earth" 
), entails a heavier punishment on those who incur it,-the ciders pointed out 
that those men are devoid of sense, who, [arguing] from what happened to those 
who formerly did not obey God, do endeavour to bring in another Father, setting 
over against [these punishments] what great things the Lord had done at His 
coming to save those who received Him, taking compassion upon them; while they 
keep silence with regard to His judgment; and all those things which shall come 
upon such as have heard His words, but done them not, and that it were better 
for them if they had not been born, 
and that it shall be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrha in the judgment than 
for that city which did not receive the word of His disciples. 

2. For as, in the New Testament, that faith of men [to be placed] in God has 
been increased, receiving in addition [to what was already revealed] the Son of 
God, that man too might be a partaker of God; so is also our walk in life 
required to be more circumspect, when we are directed not merely to abstain from 
evil actions, but even from evil thoughts, and from idle words, and empty talk, 
and scurrilous-language: 
thus also the punishment of those who do not believe the Word of God, and 
despise His advent, and are turned away backwards, is increased; being not 
merely temporal, but rendered also eternal. For to whomsoever the Lord shall 
say, "Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire," 
these shall be damned for ever; and to whomsoever He shall say, "Come, ye 
blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you for eternity," 
these do receive the kingdom for ever, and make constant advance in it; since 
there is one and the same God the Father, and His Word, who has been always 
present with the human race, by means indeed of various dispensations, and has 
wrought out many things, and saved from the beginning those who are saved, (for 
these are they who love God, and follow the Word of God according to the class 
to which they belong, ) and has judged those who are judged, that is, those who 
forget God, and are blasphemous, and transgressors of His word.
3. For the sesame heretics already mentioned by us have fallen away from 
themselves, by accusing the Lord, in whom they say that they believe. For those 
points to which they call attention with regard to the God who then awarded 
temporal punishments to the unbelieving, and smote the Egyptians, while He saved 
those that were obedient; these same [facts, I say, ] shall nevertheless repeat 
themselves in the Lord, who judges for eternity those whom He doth judge, and 
lets go free for eternity those whom He does let go free: and He shall [thus] be 
discovered, according to the language used by these men, as having been the 
cause of their most heinous sin to those who laid hands upon Him, and pierced 
Him. For if He had not so Come, it follows that these men could not have become 
the slayers of their Lord; and if He had not sent prophets to them, they 
certainly could not have killed them, nor the apostles either. To those, 
therefore, who assail us, and say, If the Egyptians had not been afflicted with 
plagues, and, when pursuing after Israel, been choked in the sea, God could not 
have saved His people, this answer may be given;-Unless, then, the Jews had 
become the slayers of the Lord (which did, indeed, take eternal life away from 
them), and, by killing the apostles and persecuting the Church, had fallen into 
an abyss of wrath, we could not have been saved. For as they were saved by means 
of the blindness of the Egyptians, so are we, too, by that of the Jews; if, 
indeed, the death of the Lord is the condemnation of those who fastened Him to 
the cross, and who did not believe His advent, but the salvation of those who 
believe in Him. For the apostle does also say in the Second [Epistle] to the 
Corinthians: "For we are unto God a sweet savour of Christ, in them which are 
saved, and in them which perish: to the one indeed the savour of death unto 
death, but to the other the savour of life unto life. 
To whom, then, is there the savour of death unto death, unless to those who 
believe not neither are subject to the Word of God? And who are they that did 
even then give themselves over to death? Those men, doubtless, who do not 
believe, nor submit themselves to God. And again, who are they that have been 
saved and received the inheritance? Those, doubtless, who do believe God, and 
who have continued in His love; as did Caleb [the son] of Jephunneh and Joshua 
[the son] of Nun, 
and innocent children, 
who have had no sense of evil. But who are they that are saved now, and receive 
life eternal? Is it not those who love God, and who believe His promises, and 
who "in malice have become as little children? " 


Chapter XXIX.-Refutation of the 
  Arguments of the Marcionites, Who Attempted to Show that God Was the Author of 
  Sin, Because He Blinded Pharaoh and His Servants.
1. "But," say they, "God hardened the heart of Pharaoh and of his 
servants." 
Those, then, who allege such difficulties, do not read in the Gospel that 
passage where the Lord replied to the disciples, when they asked Him, "Why 
speakest Thou unto them in parables? "-"Because it is given unto you to know the 
mystery of the kingdom of heaven; but to thorn I speak in parables, that seeing 
they may not see, and hearing they may not hear, understanding they may not 
understand; in order that the prophecy of Isaiah regarding them may be fulfil 
leading, Make the heart of this people gross and make their ears dull, and blind 
their eyes. But blessed are your eyes, which see the things that ye see; and 
your ears, which hear what ye do hear. 
For one and the same God [that blesses others] inflicts blindness upon those who 
do not believe, but who set Him at naught; just as the sun, which is a creature 
of His, [acts with regard] to those who, by reason of any weakness of the eyes 
cannot behold his light; but to those who believe in Him and follow Him, He 
grants a fuller and greater illumination of mind. In accordance with this word, 
therefore, does the apostle say, in the Second the] to the Corinthians: "In whom 
the this world hath blinded the minds of them that believe not, lest the light 
of the glorious Gospel of Christ should shine [unto them]." 
And again, in that to the Romans: "And as they did not think fit to have God in 
their knowledge, God gave them up to a reprobate mind, to do those things that 
are not convenient." 
Speaking of antichrist, too, he says clearly in the Second to the Thessalonians: 
"And for this cause God shall send them the working of error, that they should 
believe a lie; that they all might be judged who believed not the truth, but 
consented to iniquity." 

2. If, therefore, in the present time also, God, knowing the number of those 
who will not believe, since He foreknows all things, has given them over to 
unbelief, and turned away His face from men of this stamp, leaving them in the 
darkness which they have themselves chosen for themselves, what is there 
wonderful if He did also at that time give over to their unbelief, Pharaoh, who 
never would have believed, along with those who were with him? As the Word spake 
to Moses from the bush: "And I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you 
go, unless by a mighty hand." 
And for the reason that the Lord spake in parables, and brought blindness upon 
Israel, that seeing they might not see, since He knew the [spirit of] unbelief 
in them, for the same reason did He harden Pharaoh's heart; in order that, while 
seeing that it was the finger of God which led forth the people, he might not 
believe, but be precipitated into a sea of unbelief, resting in the notion that 
the exit of these [Israelites] was accomplished by magical power, and that it 
was not by the operation of God that the Red Sea afforded a passage to the 
people, but that this occurred by merely natural causes (sed naturaliter sic 
se habere).

Chapter XXX.-Refutation of Another 
  Argument Adduced by the Marcionites, that God Directed the Hebrews to Spoil 
  the Egyptians.
I. Those, again, who cavil and find fault because the people did, by God's 
command, upon the eve of their departure, take vessels of all kinds and raiment 
from the Egyptians, 
and so went away, from which [spoils], too, the tabernacle was constructed in 
the wilderness, prove themselves ignorant of the righteous dealings of God, and 
of His dispensations; as also the presbyter remarked: For if God had not 
accorded this in the typical exodus, no one could now be saved in our true 
exodus; that is, in the faith in which we have been established, and by which we 
have been brought forth from among the number of the Gentiles. For in some cases 
there follows us a small, and in others a large amount of property, which we 
have acquired from the mammon of unrighteousness. For from what source do we 
derive the houses in which we dwell, the garments in which we are clothed, the 
vessels which we use, and everything else ministering to our every-day life, 
unless it be from those things which, when we were Gentiles, we acquired by 
avarice, or received them from our heathen parents, relations, or friends who 
unrighteously obtained them?-not to mention that even now we acquire such things 
when we are in the faith. For who is there that sells, and does not wish to make 
a profit from him who buys? Or who purchases anything, and does not wish to 
obtain good value from the seller? Or who is there that carries on a trade, and 
does not do so that he may obtain a livelihood thereby? And as to those 
believing ones who are in the royal palace, do they not derive the utensils they 
employ from the property which belongs to Caesar; and to those who have not, 
does not each one of these [Christians] give according to his ability? The 
Egyptians were debtors to the [Jewish] people, not alone as to property, but as 
their very lives, because of the kindness of the patriarch Joseph in former 
times; but in what way are the heathen debtors to us, from whom we receive both 
gain and profit? Whatsoever they amass with labour, these things do we make use 
of without labour, although we are in the faith.
2. Up to that time the people served the Egyptians in the most abject 
slavery, as saith the Scripture: "And the Egyptians exercised their power 
rigorously upon the children of Israel; and they made life bitter to them by 
severe labours, in mortar and in brick, and in all manner of service in the 
field which they did, by all the works in which they oppressed them with 
rigour." 
And with immense labour they built for them fenced cities, increasing the 
substance of these men throughout a long course of years, and by means of every 
species of slavery; while these [masters] were not only ungrateful towards them, 
but had in contemplation their utter annihilation. In what way, then, did [the 
Israelites] act unjustly, if out of many things they took a few, they who might 
have possessed much property had they not served them, and might have gone forth 
wealthy, while, in fact, by receiving only a very insignificant recompense for 
their heavy servitude, they went away poor? It is just as if any free man, being 
forcibly carried away by another, and serving him for many years, and increasing 
his substance, should be thought, when he ultimately obtains some support, to 
possess some small portion of his [master's] property, but should in reality 
depart, having obtained only a little as the result of his own great labours, 
and out of vast possessions which have been acquired, and this should be made by 
any one a subject of accusation against him, as if he had not acted 
properly. 
He (the accuser) will rather appear as an unjust judge against him who had been 
forcibly carried away into slavery. Of this kind, then, are these men also, who 
charge the people with blame, because they appropriated a few things out of 
many, but who bring no charge against those who did not render them the 
recompense due to their fathers' services; nay, but even reducing them to the 
most irksome slavery, obtained the highest profit from them. And [these 
objectors] allege that [the Israelites] acted dishonestly, because, for-sooth, 
they took away for the recompense of their labours, as I have observed, 
unstamped gold and silver in a few vessels; while they say that they themselves 
(for lot truth be spoken, although to some it may seem ridiculous) do act 
honestly, when they carry away in their girdles from the labours of others, 
coined gold, and silver, and brass, with Caesar's inscription and image upon 
it.
3. If, however, a comparison be instituted between us and them, [I would ask] 
which party shall seem to have received [their worldly goods] in the fairer 
manner? Will it be the [Jewish] people, [who took] from the Egyptians, who were 
at all points their debtors; or we, [who receive property] from the Romans and 
other nations, who are under no similar obligation to us? Yea, moreover, through 
their instrumentality the world is at peace, and we walk on the highways without 
fear, and sail where we will. 
Therefore, against men of this kind (namely, the heretics) the word of the Lord 
applies, which says: "Thou hypocrite, first cast the beam out of thine eye, and 
then shalt thou see clearly to pull out the mote out of thy brother's 
eye." 
For if he who lays these things to thy charge, and glories in his own wisdom, 
has been separated from the company of the Gentiles, and possesses nothing 
[derived from] other people's goods, but is literally naked, and barefoot, and 
dwells homeless among the mountains, as any of those animals do which feed on 
grass, he will stand excused [in using such language], as being ignorant of the 
necessities of our mode of life. But if he do partake of what, in the opinion of 
men, is the property of others, and if [at the same time] he runs down their 
type, 
he proves himself most unjust, turning this kind of accusation against himself. 
For he will be found carrying about property not belonging to him, and coveting 
goods which are not his. And therefore has the Lord said: "Judge not, that ye be 
not judged: for with what judgment ye shall judge, ye shall be judged." 
[The meaning is] not certainly that we should not find fault with sinners, nor 
that we should consent to those who act wickedly; but that we should not 
pronounce an unfair judgment on the dispensations of God, inasmuch as He has 
Himself made provision that all things shall turn out for good, in a way 
consistent with justice. For, because He knew that we would make a good use of 
our substance which we should possess by receiving it from another, He says, "He 
that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none; and he that hath 
meat, let him do likewise." 
And, "For I was an hungered, and ye gave Me meat; I was thirsty, and ye gave Me 
drink; I was naked and ye clothed Me." 
And, "When thou doest thine alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand 
doeth." 
And we are proved to be righteous by whatsoever else we do well, redeeming, as 
it were, our property from strange hands. But thus do I say, "from strange 
hands," not as if the world were not God's possession, but that we have gifts of 
this sort, and receive them from others, in the same way as these men had them 
from the Egyptians who knew not God; and by means of these same do we erect in 
ourselves the tabernacle of God: for God dwells in those who act uprightly, as 
the Lord says: "Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness, 
that they, when ye shall be put to flight," 
may receive you into eternal tabernacles." 
For whatsoever we acquired from unrighteousness when we were heathen, we are 
proved righteous, when we have become believers, by applying it to the Lord's 
advantage.
4. As a matter of course, therefore, these things were done beforehand in a 
type, and from them was the tabernacle of God constructed; those persons justly 
receiving them, as I have shown, while we were pointed out beforehand in 
them,-[we] who should afterwards serve God by the things of others. For the 
whole exodus of the people out of Egypt, which took place under divine 
guidance, 
was a type and image of the exodus of the Church which should take place from 
among the Gentiles; 
and for this cause He leads it out at last from this world into His own 
inheritance, which Moses the servant of God did not [bestow], but which Jesus 
the Son of God shall give for an inheritance. And if any one will devote a dose 
attention to those things which are stated by the prophets with regard to the 
[time of the] end, and those which John the disciple of the Lord saw in the 
Apocalypse, 
he will find that the nations [are to] receive the same plagues universally, as 
Egypt then did particularly.

Chapter XXXI.-We Should Not Hastily 
  Impute as Crimes to the Men of Old Time Those Actions Which the Scripture Has 
  Not Condemned, But Should Rather Seek in Them Types of Things to Come: an 
  Example of This in the Incest Committed by Lot.
I. When recounting certain matters of this kind respecting them of old time, 
the presbyter [before mentioned] was in the habit of instructing us, and saying: 
"With respect to those misdeeds for which the Scriptures themselves blame the 
patriarchs and prophets, we ought not to inveigh against them, nor become like 
Ham, who ridiculed the shame of his father, and so fell under a curse; but we 
should [rather] give thanks to God in their behalf, inasmuch as their sins have 
been forgiven them through the advent of our Lord; for He said that they gave 
thanks [for us], and gloried in our salvation. 
With respect to those actions, again, on which the Scriptures pass no censure, 
but which are simply set down [as having occurred], we ought not to become the 
accusers [of those who committed them], for we are not more exact than God, nor 
can we be superior to our Master; but we should search for a type [in theme. For 
not one of those things which have been set down in Scripture without being 
condemned is without significance." An example is found in the case of Lot, who 
led forth his daughters from Sodom, and these then conceived by their own 
father; and who left behind him within the confines [of the land] his wife, [who 
remains] a pillar of salt unto this day. For Lot, not acting under the impulse 
of his own will, nor at the prompting of carnal concupiscence, nor having any 
knowledge or thought of anything of the kind, did [in fact] work out a type [of 
future events]. As says the Scripture: "And that night the eider went in and lay 
with her father; and Lot knew not when she lay down, nor when she arose." 
And the same thing took place in the case of the younger: "And he knew not," it 
is said, "when she slept with him, nor when she arose." 
Since, therefore, Lot knew not [what he did], nor was a slave to lust [in his 
actions], the arrangement [designed by God] was carried out, by which the two 
daughters (that is, the two churches 
), who gave birth to children begotten of one and the same father, were pointed 
out, apart from [the influence of] the lust of the flesh. For there was no other 
person, [as they supposed], who could impart to them quickening seed, and the 
means of their giving birth to children, as it is written: "And the elder said 
unto the younger, And there is not a man on the earth to enter in unto us after 
the manner of all the earth: come, let us make our father drunk with wine, and 
let us lie with him, and raise up seed from our father." 

2. Thus, after their simplicity and innocence, did these daughters [of Lot] 
so speak, imagining that all mankind had perished, even as the Sodomites had 
done, and that the anger of God had come down upon the whole earth. Wherefore 
also they are to be held excusable, since they supposed that they only, along 
with their father, were left for the preservation of the human race; and for 
this reason it was that they deceived their father. Moreover, by the words they 
used this fact was pointed out-that there is no other one who can confer upon 
the elder and younger church the [power of] giving birth to children, besides 
our Father. Now the father of the human race is the Word of God, as Moses points 
out when he says, "Is not He thy father who hath obtained thee [by generation], 
and formed thee, and created thee? 
At what time, then, did He pour out upon the human race the life-giving 
seed-that is, the Spirit of the remission of sins, through means of whom we are 
quickened? Was it not then, when He was eating with men, and drinking wine upon 
the earth? For it is said, "The Son of man came eating and drinking; 
and when He had lain down, He fell asleep, and took repose. As He does Himself 
say in David, "I slept, and took repose." 
And because He used thus to act while He dwelt and lived among us, He says 
again, "And my sleep became sweet unto me." 
Now this whole matter was indicated through Lot, that the seed of the Father of 
all-that is, of the Spirit of God, by whom all things were made-was commingled 
and united with flesh-that is, with His own workmanship; by which commixture and 
unity the two synagogues-that is, the two churches-produced from their own 
father living sons to the living God.
3. And while these things were taking place, his wife remained in [the 
territory of] Sodore, no longer corruptible flesh, but a pillar of salt which 
endures for ever; 
and by those natural processes 
which appertain to the human race, indicating that the Church also, which is the 
salt of the earth, 
has been left behind within the confines of the earth, and subject to human 
sufferings; and while entire members are often taken away from it, the pillar of 
salt still endures, 
thus typifying the foundation of the faith which maketh strong, and sends 
forward, children to their Father.

Chapter XXXII.-That One God Was the 
  Author of Both Testaments, is Confirmed by the Authority of a Presbyter Who 
  Had Been Taught by the Apostles.
I.. After this fashion also did a presbyter, 
a disciple of the apostles, reason with respect to the two testaments, proving 
that both were truly from one and the same God. For [he maintained] that there 
was no other God besides Him who made and fashioned us, and that the discourse 
of those men has no foundation who affirm that this world of ours was made 
either by angels, or by any other power whatsoever, or by another God. For if a 
man be once moved away from the Creator of all things, and if he grant that this 
creation to which we belong was formed by any other or through any other [than 
the one God], he must of necessity fall into much inconsistency, and many 
contradictions of this sort; to which he will [be able to] furnish no 
explanations which can be regarded as either probable or true. And, for this 
reason, those who introduce other doctrines conceal from us the opinion which 
they themselves hold respecting God, because they are aware of the 
untenable 
and absurd nature of their doctrine, and are afraid lest, should they be 
vanquished, they should have some difficulty in making good their escape. But if 
any one believes in [only] one God, who also made all things by the Word, as 
Moses likewise says, "God said, Let there be light: and there was light; 
" 
and as we read in the Gospel, "All things were made by Him; and without Him was 
nothing made; " 
and the Apostle Paul [says] in like manner, "There is one Lord, one faith, one 
baptism, one God and Father, who is above all, and through all, and in us 
all" 
-this man will first of all "hold the head, from which the whole body is 
compacted and bound together, and, through means of every joint according to the 
measure of the ministration of each several part, maketh increase of the body to 
the edification of itself in love." 
And then shall every word also seem consistent to him, 
if he for his part diligently read the Scriptures in company with those who are 
presbyters in the Church, among whom is the apostolic doctrine, as I have 
pointed out.
2. For all the apostles taught that there were indeed two testaments among 
the two peoples; but that it was one and the same God who appointed both for the 
advantage of those men (for whose 
sakes the testaments were given) who were to believe in God, I have proved in 
the third book from the very teaching of the apostles; and that the first 
testament was not given without reason, or to no purpose, or in an accidental 
sort of manner; but that it subdued 
those to whom it was given to the service of God, for their benefit (for God 
needs no service from men), and exhibited a type of heavenly things, inasmuch as 
man was not yet able to see the things of God through means of immediate 
vision; 
and foreshadowed the images of those things which [now actually] exist in the 
Church, in order that our faith might be firmly established; 
and contained a prophecy of things to come, in order that man might learn that 
God has foreknowledge of all things.

Chapter XXXIII.-Whosoever Confesses 
  that One God is the Author of Both Testaments, and Diligently Reads the 
  Scriptures in Company with the Presbyters of the Church, is a True Spiritual 
  Disciple; And He Will Rightly Understand and Interpret All that the Prophets 
  Have Declared Respecting Christ and the Liberty of the New 
  Testament.
I. A spiritual disciple of this sort truly receiving the Spirit of God, who 
was from the beginning, in all the dispensations of God, present with mankind, 
and announced things future, revealed things present, and narrated things 
past-[such a man] does indeed "judge all men, but is himself judged by no 
man." 
For he judges the Gentiles, "who serve the creature more than the 
Creator," 
and with a reprobate mind spend all their labour on vanity. And he also judges 
the Jews, who do not accept of the word of liberty, nor are willing to go forth 
free, although they have a Deliverer present [with them]; but they pretend, at a 
time unsuitable [for such conduct], to serve, [with observances] beyond [those 
required by] the law, God who stands in need of nothing, and do not recognise 
the advent of Christ, which He accomplished for the salvation of men, nor are 
willing to understand that all the prophets announced His two advents: the one, 
indeed, in which He became a man subject to stripes, and knowing what it is to 
bear infirmity, 
and sat upon the foal of an ass, 
and was a stone rejected by the builders, 
and was led as a sheep to the slaughter, 
and by the stretching forth of His hands destroyed Amalek; 
while He gathered from the ends of the earth into His Father's fold the children 
who were scattered abroad, 
and remembered His own dead ones who had formerly fallen asleep, 
and came down to them that He might deliver them: but the second in which He 
will come on the clouds, 
bringing on the day which burns as a furnace? 
and smiting the earth with the word of His mouth? 
and slaying the impious with the breath of His lips, and having a fan in His 
hands, and cleansing His floor, and gathering the wheat indeed into His barn, 
but burning the chaff with unquenchable fire. 
2. Moreover, he shall also examine the doctrine of Marcion, [inquiring] how he 
holds that there are two gods, separated from each other by an infinite 
distance. 
Or how can he be good who draws away men that do not belong to him from him who 
made them, and calls them into his own kingdom? And why is his goodness, which 
does not save all [thus], defective? Also, why does he, indeed, seem to be good 
as respects men, but most unjust with regard to him who made men, inasmuch as he 
deprives him of his possessions? Moreover, how could the Lord, with any justice, 
if He belonged to another father, have acknowledged the bread to be His body, 
while He took it from that creation to which we belong, and affirmed the mixed 
cup to be His blood? 
And why did He acknowledge Himself to be the Son of man, if He had not gone 
through that birth which belongs to a human being? How, too, could He forgive us 
those sins for which we are answerable to our Maker and God? And how, again, 
supposing that He was not flesh, but was a man merely in appearance, could He 
have been crucified, and could blood and water have issued from His pierced 
side? 
What body, moreover, was it that those who buried Him consigned to the tomb? And 
what was that which rose again from the dead?
3. [This spiritual man] shall also judge all the followers of Valentinus, 
because they do indeed confess with the tongue one God the Father, and that all 
things derive their existence from Him, but do at the same time maintain that He 
who formed all things is the fruit of an apostasy or defect. [He shall judge 
them, too, because] they do in like manner confess with the tongue one Lord 
Jesus Christ, the Son of God, but assign in their [system of] doctrine a 
production of his own to the Only-begotten, one of his own also to the Word, 
another to Christ, and yet another to the Saviour; so that, according to them, 
all these beings are indeed said [in Scripture to be], as it were, one; [while 
they maintain], notwithstanding, that each one of them should be understood [to 
exist] separately [from the rest], and to have [had] his own special origin, 
according to his peculiar conjunction. [It appears], then 
that their tongues alone, forsooth, have conceded the unity [of God], while 
their [real] opinion and their understanding (by their habit of investigating 
profundities) have fallen away from [this doctrine of] unity, and taken up the 
notion of manifold deities,-[this, I say, must appear] when they shall be 
examined by Christ as to the points [of doctrine] which they have invented. Him, 
too, they affirm to have been born at a later period than the Pleroma of the 
Aeons, and that His production took place after [the occurrence of] a degeneracy 
or apostasy; and they maintain that, on account of the passion which was 
experienced by Sophia, they themselves were brought to the birth. But their own 
special prophet Homer, listening to whom they have invented such doctrines, 
shall himself reprove them, when he expresses himself as follows:-
"Hateful to me that man as Hades' gates,
Who one thing thinks, while he another states." 
[This spiritual man] shall also judge the vain speeches of the perverse 
Gnostics, by showing that they are the disciples of Simon Magus.
4. He will judge also the Ebionites; [for] how can they be saved unless it 
was God who wrought out their salvation upon earth? Or how shall man pass into 
God, unless God has [first] passed into man? And how shall he (man) escape from 
the generation subject to death, if not by means 
of a new generation, given in a wonderful and unexpected manner (but as a sign 
of salvation) by God-[I mean] that regeneration which flows from the virgin 
through faith? 
Or how shall they receive adoption from God if they remain in this [kind of] 
generation, which is naturally possessed by man in this world? And how could He 
(Christ) have been greater than Solomon, 
or greater than Jonah, or have been the Lord of David, 
who was of the same substance as they were? How, too, could He have 
subdued 
him who was stronger than men, 
who had not only overcome man, but also retained him under his power, and 
conquered him who had conquered, while he set free mankind who had been 
conquered, unless He had been greater than man who had thus been vanquished? But 
who else is superior to, and more eminent than, that man who was formed after 
the likeness of God, except the Son of God, after whose image man was created? 
And for this reason He did in these last days 
exhibit the similitude; [for] the Son of God was made man, assuming the ancient 
production [of His hands] into His own nature, 
as I have shown in the immediately preceding book. 
5. He shall also judge those who describe Christ as [having become man] only 
in [human] opinion. For how can they imagine that they do themselves carry on a 
real discussion, when their Master was a mere imaginary being? Or how can they 
receive anything stedfast from Him, if He was a merely imagined being, and not a 
verity? And how can these men really be partaken of salvation, if He in whom 
they profess to believe, manifested Himself as a merely imaginary being? 
Everything, therefore, connected with these men is unreal, and nothing 
[possessed of the character of] truth; and, in these circumstances, it may be 
made a question whether (since, perchance, they themselves in like manner are 
not men, but mere dumb animals) they do not present, 
in most cases, simply a shadow of humanity.
6. He shall also judge false prophets, who, without having received the gift 
of prophecy from God, and not possessed of the fear of God, but either for the 
sake of vainglory, or with a view to some personal advantage, or acting in some 
other way under the influence of a wicked spirit, pretend to utter prophecies, 
while all the time they lie against God.
7. He shall also judge those who give rise to schisms, who are destitute of 
the love of God, and who look to their own special advantage rather than to the 
unity of the Church; and who for trifling reasons, or any kind of reason which 
occurs to them, cut in pieces and divide the great and glorious body of Christ, 
and so far as in them lies, [positively] destroy it,-men who prate of peace 
while they give rise to war, and do in truth strain out a gnat, but swallow a 
camel. 
For no reformation of so great importance can be effected by them, as will 
compensate for the mischief arising from their schism. He shall also judge all 
those who are beyond the pale of the truth, that is, who are outside the Church; 
but he himself shall be judged by no one. For to him all things are consistent: 
he has a full faith in one God Almighty, of whom are all things; and in the Son 
of God, Jesus Christ our Lord, by whom are all things, and in the dispensations 
connected with Him, by means of which the Son of God became man; and a firm 
belief in the Spirit of God, who furnishes us with a knowledge of the truth, and 
has set forth the dispensations of the Father and the Son, in virtue of which He 
dwells with every generation of men, 
according to the will of the Father.
8. True knowledge 
is [that which consists in] the doctrine of the apostles, and the ancient 
constitution 
of the Church throughout all the world, and the distinctive manifestation of the 
body 
of Christ according to the successions of the bishops, by which they have handed 
down that Church which exists in every place, and has come even unto us, being 
guarded and preserved 
without any forging of Scriptures, by a very complete system 
of doctrine, and neither receiving addition nor [suffering] curtailment [in the 
truths which she believes]; and [it consists in] reading [the word of God] 
without falsification, and a lawful and diligent exposition in harmony with the 
Scriptures, both without danger and without blasphemy; and [above all, it 
consists in] the pre-eminent gift of love, 
which is more precious than knowledge, more glorious than prophecy, and which 
excels all the other gifts [of God].
9. Wherefore the Church does in every place, because of that love which she 
cherishes towards God, send forward, throughout all time, a multitude of martyrs 
to the Father; while all others 
not only have nothing of this kind to point to among themselves, but even 
maintain that such witness-bearing is not at all necessary, for that their 
system of doctrines is the true witness [for Christ], with the exception, 
perhaps, that one or two among them, during the whole time which has elapsed 
since the Lord appeared on earth, have occasionally, along with our martyrs, 
borne the reproach of the name (as if he too [the heretic] had obtained mercy), 
and have been led forth with them [to death], being, as it were, a sort of 
retinue granted unto them. For the Church alone sustains with purity the 
reproach of those who suffer persecution for righteousness' sake, and endure all 
sorts of punishments, and are put to death because of the love which they bear 
to God, and their confession of His Son; often weakened indeed, yet immediately 
increasing her members, and becoming whole again, after the same manner as her 
type, 
Lot's wife, who became a pillar of salt. Thus, too, [she passes through an 
experience] similar to that of the ancient prophets, as the Lord declares, "For 
so persecuted they the prophets who were before you; " 
inasmuch as she does indeed, in a new fashion, suffer persecution from those who 
do not receive the word of God, while the self-same spirit rests upon her 
[as upon these ancient prophets].
10. And indeed the prophets, along with other things which they predicted, 
also foretold this, that all those on whom the Spirit of God should rest, and 
who would obey the word of the Father, and serve Him according to their ability, 
should suffer persecution, and be stoned and slain. For the prophets prefigured 
in themselves all these things, because of their love to God, and on account of 
His word. For since they themselves were members of Christ, each; one of them in 
his place as a member did, in accordance with this, set forth the prophecy 
[assigned him]; all of them, although many, prefiguring only one, and 
proclaiming the things which pertain to one. For just as the working of the 
whole body is exhibited through means of our members, while the figure of a 
complete man is not displayed by one member, but through means of all taken 
together, so also did all the prophets prefigure the one [Christ]; while every 
one of them, in his special place as a member, did, in accordance with this, 
fill up the [established] dispensation, and shadowed forth beforehand that 
particular working of Christ which was connected with that member.
11. For some of them, beholding Him in glory, saw His glorious life 
(conversationem) at the Father's right hand; 
others beheld Him coming on the clouds as the Son of man; 
and those who declared regarding Him, "They shall look on Him whom they have 
pierced," 
indicated His [second] advent, concerning which He Himself says, "Thinkest thou 
that when the Son of man cometh, He shall find faith on the earth? " 
Paul also refers to this event when he says, "If, however, it is a righteous 
thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you, and to you 
that are troubled rest with us, at the revelation of the Lord Jesus from heaven, 
with His mighty angels, and in a flame of fire." 
Others again, speaking of Him as a judge, and [referring], as if it were a 
burning furnace, [to] the day of the Lord, who "gathers the wheat into His barn, 
but will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire," 
were accustomed to threaten those who were unbelieving, concerning whom also the 
Lord Himself declares, "Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, which 
my Father has prepared for the devil and his angels." 
And the apostle in like manner says [of them], "Who shall be punished with 
everlasting death from the face of the Lord, and from the glory of His power, 
when He shall come to be glorified in His saints, and to be admired in those who 
believe in Him." 
There are also some [of them] who declare, "Thou art fairer than the children of 
men; " 
and, "God, Thy God, hath anointed Thee with the oil of gladness above Thy 
fellows; " 
and, "Gird Thy sword upon Thy thigh, O Most Mighty, with Thy beauty and Thy 
fairness, and go forward and proceed prosperously; and rule Thou because of 
truth, and meekness, and righteousness." 
And whatever other things of a like nature are spoken regarding Him, these 
indicated that beauty and splendour which exist in His kingdom, along with the 
transcendent and pre-eminent exaltation [belonging] to all who are under His 
sway, that those who hear might desire to be found there, doing such things as 
are pleasing to God. Again, there are those who say, "He is a man, and who shall 
know him? " 
and, "I came unto the prophetess, and she bare a son, and His name is called 
Wonderful, Counsellor, the Mighty God; " 
and those [of them] who proclaimed Him as Immanuel, [born] of the Virgin, 
exhibited the union of the Word of God with His own workmanship, [declaring] 
that the Word should become flesh, and the Son of God the Son of man (the pure 
One opening purely that pure womb which regenerates men unto God, and which He 
Himself made pure); and having become this which we also are, He [nevertheless] 
is the Mighty God, and possesses a generation which cannot be declared. And 
there are also some of them who say, "The Lord hath spoken in Zion, and uttered 
His voice from Jerusalem; 
and, "In Judah is God known; " 
-these indicated His advent which took place in Judea. Those, again, who declare 
that "God comes from the south, and from a mountain thick with foliage," 
announced His advent at Bethlehem, as I have pointed out in the preceding 
book. 
From that place, also, He who rules, and who feeds the people of His Father, has 
come. Those, again, who declare that at His coming "the lame man shall leap as 
an hart, and the tongue of the dumb shall [speak] plainly, and the eyes of the 
blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall hear," 
and that "the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees, shall be 
strengthened," 
and that "the dead which are in the grave shall arise," 
and that He Himself" shall take [upon Him] our weaknesses, and bear our 
sorrows," 
-[all these] proclaimed those works of healing which were accomplished by 
Him.
12. Some of them, moreover-[when they predicted that] as a weak and 
inglorious man, and as one who knew what it was to bear infirmity, 
and sitting upon the foal of an ass, 
He should come to Jerusalem; and that He should give His back to stripes, 
and His cheeks to palms [which struck Him]; and that He should be led as a sheep 
to the slaughter; 
and that He should have vinegar and gall given Him to drink; 
and that He should be forsaken by His friends and those nearest to Him; 
and that He should stretch forth His hands the whole day long; 
and that He should be mocked and maligned by those who looked upon Him; 
and that His garments should be parted, and lots cast upon His raiment; 
and that He should be brought down to the dust of death 
with all [the other] things of a like nature-prophesied His coming in the 
character of a man as He entered Jerusalem, in which by His passion and 
crucifixion He endured all the things which have been mentioned. Others, again, 
when they said, "The holy Lord remembered His own dead ones who slept in the 
dust, and came down to them to raise them up, that He might save them," 
furnished us with the reason on account of which He suffered all these things. 
Those, moreover, who said, "In that day, saith the Lord, the sun shall go down 
at noon, and there shall be darkness over the earth in the clear day; and I will 
turn your feast days into mourning, and all your songs into lamentation," 
plainly announced that obscuration of the sun which at the time of His 
crucifixion took place from the sixth hour onwards, and that after this event, 
those days which were their festivals according to the law, and their songs, 
should be changed into grief and lamentation when they were handed over to the 
Gentiles. Jeremiah, too, makes this point still clearer, when he thus speaks 
concerning Jerusalem: "She that hath born [seven] languisheth; her soul hath 
become weary; her sun hath gone down while it was yet noon; she hath been 
confounded, and suffered reproach: the remainder of them will I give to the 
sword in the sight of their enemies." 

13. Those of them, again, who spoke of His having slumbered and taken sleep, 
and of His having risen again because the Lord sustained Him, 
and who enjoined the principalities of heaven to set open the everlasting doors, 
that the King of glory might go in, 
proclaimed beforehand His resurrection from the dead through the Father's power, 
and His reception into heaven. And when they expressed themselves thus, "His 
going forth is from the height of heaven, and His returning even to the highest 
heaven; and there is no one who can hide himself from His heat," 
they announced that very truth of His being taken up again to the place from 
which He came down, and that there is no one who can escape His righteous 
judgment. And those who said, "The Lord hath reigned; let the people be enraged: 
[even] He who sitteth upon the cherubim; let the earth be moved," 
were thus predicting partly that wrath from all nations which after His 
ascension came upon those who believed in Him, with the movement of the whole 
earth against the Church; and partly the fact that, when He comes from heaven 
with His mighty angels, the whole earth shall be shaken, as He Himself declares, 
"There shall be a great earthquake, such as has not been from the 
beginning." 
And again, when one says, "Whosoever is judged, let him stand opposite; and 
whosoever is justified, let him draw near to the servant 
of God; " 
and, "Woe unto you, for ye shall wax old as doth a garment, and the moth shall 
eat you up; "and, "All flesh shall be humbled, and the Lord alone shall be 
exalted in the highest," 
-it is thus indicated that, after His passion and ascension, God shall cast down 
under His feet all who were opposed to Him, and He shall be exalted above all, 
and there shall be no one who can be justified or compared to Him.
14. And those of them who declare that God would make a new covenant 
with men, not such as that which He made with the fathers at Mount Horeb, and 
would give to men a new heart and a new spirit; 
and again, "And remember ye not the things of old: behold, I make new things 
which shall now arise, and ye shall know it; and I will make a way in the 
desert, and riven in a dry land, to give drink to my chosen people, my people 
whom I have acquired, that they may show forth my praise," 
-plainly announced that liberty which distinguishes the new covenant, and the 
new wine which is put into new bottles, 
[that is], the faith which is in Christ, by which He has proclaimed the way of 
righteousness sprung up in the desert, and the streams of the Holy Spirit in a 
dry land, to give water to the elect people of God, whom He has acquired, that 
they might show forth His praise, but not that they might blaspheme Him who made 
these things, that is, God.
15. And all those other points which I have shown the prophets to have 
uttered by means of so long a series of Scriptures, he who is truly spiritual 
will interpret by pointing out, in regard to every one of the things which have 
been spoken, to what special point in the dispensation of the Lord is referred, 
and [by thus exhibiting] the entire system of the work of the Son of God, 
knowing always the same God, and always acknowledging the same Word of God, 
although He has [but] now been manifested to us; acknowledging also at all times 
the same Spirit of God, although He has been poured out upon us after a new 
fashion in these last times, [knowing that He descends] even from the creation 
of the world to its end upon the human race simply as such, from whom those who 
believe God and follow His word receive that salvation which flows from Him. 
Those, on the other hand, who depart from Him, and despise His precepts, and by 
their deeds bring dishonour on Him who made them, and by their opinions 
blaspheme Him who nourishes them, heap up against themselves most righteous 
judgment. 
He therefore (i.e., the spiritual man) sifts and tries them all, but he himself 
is tried by no man: 
he neither blasphemes his Father, nor sets aside His dispensations, nor inveighs 
against the fathers, nor dishonours the prophets, by maintaining that they were 
[sent] from another God [than he worships], or again, that their prophecies were 
derived from different sources. 


Chapter XXXIV.-Proof Against the 
  Marcionites, that the Prophets Referred in All Their Predictions to Our 
  Christ.
1. Now I shall simply say, in opposition to all the heretics, and principally 
against the followers of Marcion, and against those who are like to these, in 
maintaining that time prophets were from another God [than He who is announced 
in the Gospel], read with earnest care that Gospel which has been conveyed to us 
by the apostles, and read with earnest care the prophets, and you will find that 
the whole conduct, and all the doctrine, and all the sufferings of our Lord, 
were predicted through them. But if a thought of this kind should then suggest 
itself to you, to say, What then did the Lord bring to us by His advent?-know ye 
that He brought all [possible] novelty, by bringing Himself who had been 
announced. For this very thing was proclaimed beforehand, that a novelty should 
come to renew and quicken mankind. For the advent of the King is previously 
announced by those servants who are sent [before Him], in order to the 
preparation and equipment of those men who are to entertain their Lord. But when 
the King has actually come, and those who are His subjects have been filled with 
that joy which was proclaimed beforehand, and have attained to that liberty 
which He bestows, and share in the sight of Him, and have listened to His words, 
and have enjoyed the gifts which He confers, the question will not then be asked 
by any that are possessed of sense what new thing the King has brought beyond 
[that proclaimed by] those who announced His coming. For He has brought Himself, 
and has bestowed on men those good things which were announced beforehand, which 
things the angels desired to look into. 

2. But the servants would then have been proved false, and not sent by the 
Lord, if Christ on His advent, by being found exactly such as He was previously 
announced, had not fulfilled their words. Wherefore He said, "Think not that I 
have come to destroy the law or the prophets; I came not to destroy, but to 
fulfil. For verily I say unto you, Until heaven and earth pass away, one jot or 
one tittle shall not pass from the law and the prophets till all come to 
pass." 
For by His advent He Himself fulfilled all things, and does still fulfil in the 
Church the new covenant foretold by the law, onwards to the consummation [of all 
things]. To this effect also Paul, His apostle, says in the Epistle to the 
Romans, "But now, 
without the law, has the righteousness of God been manifested, being witnessed 
by the law and the prophets; for the just shall live by faith." 
But this fact, that the just shall live by faith, had been previously 
announced 
by the prophets.
3. But whence could the prophets have had power to predict the advent of the 
King, and to preach beforehand that liberty which was bestowed by Him, and 
previously to announce all things which were done by Christ, His words, His 
works, and His sufferings, and to predict the new covenant, if they had received 
prophetical inspiration from another God [than He who is revealed in the 
Gospel], they being ignorant, as ye allege, of the ineffable Father, of His 
kingdom, and His dispensations, which the Son of God fulfilled when He came upon 
earth in these last times? Neither are ye in a position to say that these things 
came to pass by a certain kind of chance, as if they were spoken by the prophets 
in regard to some other person, while like events happened to the Lord. For all 
the prophets prophesied these same things, but they never came to pass in the 
case of any one of the ancients. For if these things had happened to any man 
among them of old time, those [prophets] who lived subsequently would certainly 
not have prophesied that these events should come to pass in the last times. 
Moreover, there is in fact none among the fathers, nor the prophets, nor the 
ancient kings, in whose case any one of these things properly and specifically 
took place. For all indeed prophesied as to the sufferings of Christ, but they 
themselves were far from enduring sufferings similar to what was predicted. And 
the points connected with the passion of the Lord, which were foretold, were 
realized in no other case. For neither did it happen at the death of any man 
among the ancients that the sun set at mid-day, nor was the veil of the temple 
rent, nor did the earth quake, nor were the rocks rent, nor did the dead rise 
up, nor was any one of these men [of old] raised up on the third day, nor 
received into heaven, nor at his assumption were the heavens opened, nor did the 
nations believe in the name of any other; nor did any from among them, having 
been dead and rising again, lay open the new covenant of liberty. Therefore the 
prophets spake not of any one else but of the Lord, in whom all these aforesaid 
tokens concurred.
4. If any one, however, advocating the cause of the Jews, do maintain that 
this new covenant consisted in the rearing of that temple which was built under 
Zerubbabel after the emigration to Babylon, and in the departure of the people 
from thence after the lapse of seventy years, let him know that the temple 
constructed of stones was indeed then rebuilt (for as yet that law was observed 
which had been made upon tables of stone), yet no new covenant was given, but 
they used the Mosaic law until the coming of the Lord; but from the Lord's 
advent, the new covenant which brings back peace, and the law which gives life, 
has gone forth over the whole earth, as the prophets said: "For out of Zion 
shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem; and He shall 
rebuke many people; and they shall break down their swords into ploughshares, 
and their spears into pruning-hooks, and they shall no longer learn to 
fight." 
If therefore another law and word, going forth from Jerusalem, brought in such a 
[reign of] peace among the Gentiles which received it (the word), and convinced, 
through them, many a nation of its folly, then [only] it appears that the 
prophets spake of some other person. But if the law of liberty, that is, the 
word of God, preached by the apostles (who went forth from Jerusalem) throughout 
all the earth, caused such a change in the state of things, that these [nations] 
did form the swords and war-lances into ploughshares, and changed them into 
pruning-hooks for reaping the corn, [that is], into instruments used for 
peaceful purposes, and that they are now unaccustomed to fighting, but when 
smitten, offer also the other cheek, 
then the prophets have not spoken these things of any other person, but of Him 
who effected them. This person is our Lord, and in Him is that declaration borne 
out; since it is He Himself who has made the plough, and introduced the 
pruning-hook, that is, the first semination of man, which was the creation 
exhibited in Adam, 
and the gathering in of the produce in the last times by the Word; and, for this 
reason, since He joined the beginning to the end, and is the Lord of both, He 
has finally displayed the plough, in that the wood has been joined on to the 
iron, and i has thus cleansed His land because the Word, having been firmly 
united to flesh, and in its mechanism fixed with pins, 
has reclaimed the savage earth. In the beginning, He figured forth the 
pruning-hook by means of Abel, pointing out that there should be a gathering in 
of a righteous race of men. He says, "For behold how the just man perishes, and 
no man considers it; and righteous men are taken away, and no man layeth it to 
heart." 
These things were acted beforehand in Abel, were also previously declared by the 
prophets, but were accomplished in the Lord's person; and the same [is still 
true] with regard to us, the body following the example of the Head.
5. Such are the arguments proper 
[to be used] in opposition to those who maintain that the prophets [were 
inspired] by a different God, and that our Lord [came] from another Father, if 
perchance [these heretics] may at length desist from such extreme folly. This is 
my earnest object in adducing these Scriptural proofs, that confuting them, as 
far as in me lies, by these very passages, I may restrain them from such great 
blasphemy, and from insanely fabricating a multitude of gods.

Chapter XXXV.-A Refutation of Those 
  Who Allege that the Prophets Uttered Some Predictions Under the Inspiration of 
  the Highest, Others from the Demiurge. Disagreements of the Valentinians Among 
  Themselves with Regard to These Same Predictions.
1. Then again, in opposition to the Valentinians, and the other Gnostics, 
falsely so called, who maintain that some parts of Scripture were spoken at one 
time from the Pleroma (a summitate) through means of the seed [derived] 
from that place, but at another time from the intermediate abode through means 
of the audacious mother Prunica, but that many are due to the Creator of the 
world, from whom also the prophets had their mission, we say that it is 
altogether irrational to bring down the Father of the universe to such straits, 
as that He should not be possessed of His own proper instruments, by which the 
things in the Pleroma might be perfectly proclaimed. For of whom was He afraid, 
so that He should not reveal His will after His own way and independently, 
freely, and without being involved with that spirit which came into being in a 
state of degeneracy and ignorance? Was it that He feared that very many would be 
saved, when more should have listened to the unadulterated truth? Or, on the 
other hand, was He incapable of preparing for Himself those who should announce 
the Saviour's advent?
2. But if, when the Saviour came to this earth, He sent His apostles into the 
world to proclaim with accuracy His advent, and to teach the Father's will, 
having nothing in common with the doctrine of the Gentiles or of the Jews, much 
more, while yet existing in the Pleroma, would He have appointed His own heralds 
to proclaim His future advent into this world, and having nothing in common with 
those prophecies originating from the Demiurge. But if, when within the Pleroma, 
He availed Himself of those prophets who were under the law, and declared His 
own matters through their instrumentality; much more would He, upon His arrival 
hither, have made use of these same teachers, and have preached the Gospel to us 
by their means. Therefore let them not any longer assert that Peter and Paul and 
the other apostles proclaimed the truth, but that it was the scribes and 
Pharisees, and the others, through whom the law was propounded. But if, at His 
advent, He sent forth His own apostles in the spirit of truth, and not in that 
of error, He did the very same also in the case of the prophets; for the Word of 
God was always the self-same: and if the Spirit from the Pleroma was, according 
to these men's system, the Spirit of light, the Spirit of truth, the Spirit of 
perfection, and the Spirit of knowledge, while that from the Demiurge was the 
spirit of ignorance, degeneracy, and error, and the offspring of obscurity; how 
can it be, that in one and the same being there exists perfection and defect, 
knowledge and ignorance, error and truth, light and darkness? But if it was 
impossible that such should happen in the case of the prophets, for they 
preached the word of the Lord from one God, and proclaimed the advent of His 
Son, much more would the Lord Himself never have uttered words, on one occasion 
from above, but on another from degeneracy below, thus becoming the teacher at 
once of knowledge and of ignorance; nor would He have ever glorified as Father 
at one time the Founder of the world, and at another Him who is above this one, 
as He does Himself declare: "No man putteth a piece of a new garment upon an old 
one, nor do they put new wine into old bottles." 
Let these men, therefore, either have nothing whatever to do with the prophets, 
as with those that are ancients, and allege no longer that these men, being sent 
beforehand by the Demiurge, spake certain things under that new influence which 
pertains to the Pleroma; or, on the other hand, let them be convinced by our 
Lord, when He declares that new wine cannot be put into old bottles.
3. But from what source could the offspring of their mother derive his 
knowledge of the mysteries within the Pleroma, and power to discourse regarding 
them? Suppose that the mother, while beyond the Pleroma, did bring forth this 
very offspring; but what is beyond the Pleroma they represent as being beyond 
the pale of knowledge, that is, ignorance. How, then, could that seed, which was 
conceived in ignorance, possess the power of declaring knowledge? Or how did the 
mother herself, a shapeless and undefined being, one cast out of doors as an 
abortion, obtain knowledge of the mysteries within the Pleroma, she who was 
organized outside it and given a form there, and prohibited by Horos from 
entering within, and who remains outside the Pleroma till the consummation [of 
all things], that is, beyond the pale of knowledge? Then, again, when they say 
that the Lord's passion is a type of the extension of the Christ above, which he 
effected through Horos, and so imparted a form to their mother, they are refuted 
in the other particulars [of the Lord's passion], for they have no semblance of 
a type to show with regard to them. For when did the Christ above have vinegar 
and gall given him to drink? Or when was his raiment parted? Or when was he 
pierced, and blood and water came forth? Or when did he sweat great drops of 
blood? And [the same may be demanded] as to the other particulars which happened 
to the Lord, of which the prophets have spoken. From whence, then, did the 
mother or her offspring divine the things which had not yet taken place, but 
which should occur afterwards?
4. They affirm that certain things still, besides these, were spoken from the 
Pleroma, but are confuted by those which are referred to in the Scriptures as 
beating on the advent of Christ. But what these are [that are spoken from the 
Pleroma] they are not agreed, but give different answers regarding them. For if 
any one, wishing to test them, do question one by one with regard to any passage 
those who are their leading men, he shall find one of them referring the passage 
in question to the Propator-that is, to Bythus; another attributing it to 
Arche-that is, to the Only-begotten; another to the Father of all-that is, to 
the Word; while another, again, will say that it was spoken of that one iron who 
was [formed from the joint contributions] of the Aeons in the Pleroma; 
others [will regard the passage] as referring to Christ, while another [will 
refer it] to the Saviour. One, again, more skilled than these, 
after a long protracted silence, declares that it was spoken of Horos; another 
that it signifies the Sophia which is within the Pleroma; another that it 
announces the mother outside the Pleroma; while another will mention the God who 
made the world (the Demiurge). Such are the variations existing among them with 
regard to one [passage], holding discordant opinions as to the same Scriptures; 
and when the same identical passage is read out, they all begin to purse up 
their eyebrows, and to shake their heads, and they say that they might indeed 
utter a discourse transcendently lofty, but that all cannot comprehend the 
greatness of that thought which is implied in it; and that, therefore, among the 
wise the chief thing is silence. For that Sige (silence) which is above 
must be typified by that silence which they preserve. Thus do they, as many as 
they are, all depart [from each other], holding so many opinions as to one 
thing, and bearing about their clever notions in secret within themselves. When, 
therefore, they shall have agreed among themselves as to the things predicted in 
the Scriptures, then also shall they be confuted by us. For, though holding 
wrong opinions, they do in the meanwhile, however, convict themselves, since 
they are not of one mind with regard to the same words. But as we follow for our 
teacher the one and only true God, and possess His words as the rule of truth, 
we do all speak alike with regard to the same things, knowing but one God, the 
Creator of this universe, who sent the prophets, who led forth the people from 
the land of Egypt, who in these last times manifested His own Son, that He might 
put the unbelievers to confusion, and search out the fruit of righteousness.

Chapter XXXVI.-The Prophets Were 
  Sent from One and the Same Father from Whom the Son Was Sent.
1. Which [God] the Lord does not reject, nor does He say that the prophets 
[spake] from another god than His Father; nor from any other essence, but from 
one and the same Father; nor that any other being made the things in the world, 
except His own Father, when He speaks as follows in His teaching: "There was a 
certain householder, and he planted a vineyard, and hedged it round about, and 
digged in it a winepress, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and 
went into a far country: And when the time of the fruit drew near, he sent his 
servants unto the husbandmen, that they might receive the fruits of it. And the 
husbandmen took his servants: they cut one to pieces, stoned another, and killed 
another. Again he sent other servants more than the first: and they did unto 
them likewise. But last of all he sent unto them his only son, saying, Perchance 
they will reverence my son. But when the husbandmen saw the son, they said among 
themselves, This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and we shall possess his 
inheritance. And they caught him, and cast him out of the vineyard, and slew 
him. When, therefore, the lord of the vineyard shall come, what will he do unto 
these husbandmen? They say unto him, He will miserably destroy these wicked men, 
and will let out his vineyard to other husbandmen, who shall render him the 
fruits in their season." 
Again does the Lord say: "Have ye never read, The stone which the builders 
rejected, the same is become the head of the comer: this is the Lord's doing, 
and it is marvellous in our eyes? Therefore I say unto you, that the kingdom of 
God shall be taken from you, and given to a nation bringing forth the fruits 
thereof." 
By these words He clearly points out to His disciples one and the same 
Householder-that is, one God the Father, who made all things by Himself; while 
[He shows] that there are various husbandmen, some obstinate, and proud, and 
worthless, and slayers of the Lord, but others who render Him, with all 
obedience, the fruits in their seasons; and that it is the same Householder who 
sends at one time His servants, at another His Son. From that Father, therefore, 
from whom the Son was sent to those husbandmen who slew Him, from Him also were 
the servants [sent]. But the Son, as coming from the Father with supreme 
authority (principali auctoritate), used to express Himself thus: "But I 
say unto you." 
The servants, again, [who came] as from their Lord, spake after the manner of 
servants, [delivering a message]; and they therefore used to say, "Thus saith 
the Lord."
2. Whom these men did therefore preach to the unbelievers as Lord, Him did 
Christ teach to those who obey Him; and the God who had called those of the 
former dispensation, is the same as He who has received those of the latter. In 
other words, He who at first used that law which entails bondage, is also He who 
did in after times [call His people] by means of adoption. For God planted the 
vineyard of the human race when at the first He formed Adam and chose the 
fathers; then He let it out to husbandmen when He established the Mosaic 
dispensation: He hedged it round about, that is, He gave particular instructions 
with regard to their worship: He built a tower, [that is], He chose Jerusalem: 
He digged a winepress, that is, He prepared a receptacle of the prophetic 
Spirit. And thus did He send prophets prior to the transmigration to Babylon, 
and after that event others again in greater number than the former, to seek the 
fruits, saying thus to them (the Jews): "Thus saith the Lord, Cleanse your ways 
and your doings, execute just judgment, and look each one with pity and 
compassion on his brother: oppress not the widow nor the orphan, the proselyte 
nor the poor, and let none of you treasure up evil against his brother in your 
hearts, and love not false swearing. Wash you, make you clean, put away evil 
from your hearts, learn to do well, seek judgment, protect the oppressed, judge 
the fatherless (pupillo), plead for the widow; and come, let us reason 
together, saith the Lord." 
And again: "Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips that they speak no guile; 
depart from evil, and do good; seek peace, and pursue it." 
In preaching these things, the prophets sought the fruits of righteousness. But 
last of all He sent to those unbelievers His own Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, 
whom the wicked husbandmen cast out of the vineyard when they had slain Him. 
Wherefore the Lord God did even give it up (no longer hedged around, but thrown 
open throughout all the world) to other husbandmen, who render the fruits in 
their seasons,-the beautiful elect tower being also raised everywhere. For the 
illustrious Church is [now] everywhere, and everywhere is i the winepress 
digged: because those who do receive the Spirit are everywhere. For inasmuch as 
the former have rejected the Son of God, and cast Him out of the vineyard when 
they slew Him, God has justly rejected them, and given to the Gentiles outside 
the vineyard the fruits of its cultivation. This is in accordance with what 
Jeremiah says, "The Lord hath rejected and cast off the nation which does these 
things; for the children of Judah have done evil in my sight, saith the 
Lord." 
And again in like manner does Jeremiah speak: "I set watchmen over you; hearken 
to the sound of the trumpet; and they said, We will not hearken. Therefore have 
the Gentiles heard, and they who feed the flocks in them." 
It is therefore one and the same Father who planted the vineyard, who led forth 
the people, who sent the prophets, who sent His own Son, and who gave the 
vineyard to those other husbandmen that render the fruits in their season.
3. And therefore did the Lord say to His disciples, to make us become good 
workmen: "Take heed to yourselves, and watch continually upon every occasion, 
lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting and drunkenness, and 
cares of this life, and that day shall come upon you unawares; for as a snare 
shall it come upon all dwelling upon the face of the earth." 
"Let your loins, therefore, be girded about, and your lights burning, and ye 
like to men who wait for their lord, when he shall return from the 
wedding." 
"For as it was in the days of Noe, they did eat and drink, they bought and sold, 
they married and were given in marriage, and they knew not, until Noe entered 
into the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all; as also it was in the 
days of Lot, they did eat and drink, they bought and sold, they planted and 
builded, until the time that Lot went out of Sodom; it rained fire from heaven, 
and destroyed them all: so shall it also be at the coming of the Son of 
man." 
"Watch ye therefore, for ye know not in what day your Lord shall come." 
[In these passages] He declares one and the same Lord, who in the times of Noah 
brought the deluge because of mews disobedience, and who also in the days of Lot 
rained fire from heaven because of the multitude of sinners among the Sodomites, 
and who, on account of this same disobedience and similar sins, will bring on 
the day of judgment at the end of time (in novissimo); on which day He 
declares that it shall be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah than for that 
city and house which shall not receive the word of His apostles. "And thou, 
Capernaum," He said, "is it that thou shalt be exalted to heaven? 
Thou shalt go down to hell. For if the mighty works which have been done in thee 
had been done in Sodore, it would have remained unto this day. Verily I say unto 
you, that it shall be more tolerable for Sodom in the day of judgment than for 
you." 

4. Since the Son of God is always one and the same, He gives to those who 
believe on Him a well of water 
[springing up] to eternal life, but He causes the unfruitful fig-tree 
immediately to dry up; and in the days of Noah He justly brought on the deluge 
for the purpose of extinguishing that most infamous race of men then existent, 
who could not bring forth fruit to God, since the angels that sinned had 
commingled with them, and [acted as He did] in order that He might put a check 
upon the sins of these men, but [that at the same time] He might preserve the 
archetype, 
the formation of Adam. And it was He who rained fire and brimstone from heaven, 
in the days of Lot, upon Sodom and Gomorrah, "an example of the righteous 
judgment of God," 
that all may know, "that every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit shall be 
cut down, and cast into the fire." 
And it is He who uses [the words], that it will be more tolerable for Sodom in 
the general judgment than for those who beheld His wonders, and did not believe 
on Him, nor receive His doctrine 
For as He gave by His advent a greater privilege to those who believed on Him, 
and who do His will, so also did He point out that those who did not believe on 
Him should have a more severe punishment in the judgment; thus extending equal 
justice to all, and being to exact more from those to whom He gives the more; 
the more, however, not because He reveals the knowledge of another Father, as I 
have shown so fully and so repeatedly, but because He has, by means of His 
advent, poured upon the human race the greater gift of paternal grace.
5. If, however, what I have stated be insufficient to convince any one that 
the prophets were sent from one and the same Father, from whom also our Lord was 
sent, let such a one, opening the mouth of his heart, and calling upon the 
Master, Christ Jesus the Lord, listen to Him when He says, "The kingdom of 
heaven is like unto a king who made a marriage for his son, and he sent forth 
his servants to call them who were bidden to the marriage." And when they would 
not obey, He goes on to say, "Again he sent other servants, saying, Tell them 
that are bidden, Come ye, I have prepared my dinner; my oxen and all the 
fallings are killed, and everything is ready; come unto the wedding. But they 
made light of it, and went their way, some to their farm, and others to their 
merchandize; but the remnant took his servants, and some they treated 
despitefully, while others they slew. But when the king heard this, he was 
wroth, and sent his armies and destroyed these murderers, and burned up their 
city, and said to his servants, The wedding is indeed ready, but they which were 
bidden were not worthy. Go out therefore into the highways, and as many as ye 
shall find, gather in to the marriage. So the servants went out, and collected 
together as many as they found, bad and good, and the wedding was furnished with 
guests. But when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there a man not 
having on a wedding garment; and he said unto him, Friend, how camest thou 
hither, not having on a wedding garment? But he was speechless. Then said the 
king to his servants, Take him away, hand and foot, and cast him into outer 
darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. For many are called, but 
few are chosen." 
Now, by these words of His, does the Lord clearly show all [these points, viz., 
] that there is one King and Lord, the Father of all, of whom He had previously 
said, "Neither shalt thou swear by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great 
King; " 
and that He had from the beginning prepared the marriage for His Son, and used, 
with the utmost kindness, to call, by the instrumentality of His servants, the 
men of the former dispensation to the wedding feast; and when they would not 
obey, He still invited them by sending out other servants, yet that even then 
they did not obey Him, but even stoned and slew those who brought them the 
message of invitation. He accordingly sent forth His armies and destroyed them, 
and burned down their city; but He called together from all the highways, that 
is, from all nations, [guests] to the marriage feast of His Son, as also He says 
by Jeremiah: "I have sent also unto you my servants the prophets to say, Return 
ye now, every man, from his very evil way, and amend your doings." 
And again He says by the same prophet: "I have also sent unto you my servants 
the prophets throughout the day and before the light; yet they did not obey me, 
nor incline their ears unto me. And thou shall speak this word to them: This is 
a people that obeyeth not the voice of the Lord, nor receiveth correction; faith 
has perished from their mouth." 
The Lord, therefore, who has called us everywhere by the apostles, is He who 
called those of old by the prophets, as appears by the words of the Lord; and 
although they preached to various nations, the prophets were not from one God, 
and the apostles from another; but, [proceeding] from one and the same, some of 
them announced the Lord, others preached the Father, and others again foretold 
the advent of the Son of God, while yet others declared Him as already present 
to those who then were afar off.
6. Still further did He also make it manifest, that we ought, after our 
calling, to be also adorned with works of righteousness, so that the Spirit of 
God may rest upon us; for this is the wedding garment, of which also the apostle 
speaks, "Not for that we would be unclothed, but clothed upon, that mortality 
might be swallowed up by immortality." 
But those who have indeed been called to God's supper, yet have not received the 
Holy Spirit, because of their wicked conduct "shall be," He declares, "cast into 
outer darkness." 
He thus clearly shows that the very same King who gathered from all quarters the 
faithful to the marriage of His Son, and who grants them the incorruptible 
banquet, [also] orders that man to be cast into outer darkness who has not on a 
wedding garment, that is, one who despises it. For as in the former covenant, 
"with many of them was He not well pleased; " 
so also is it the case here, that "many are called, but few chosen." 
It is not, then, one God who judges, and another Father who calls us together to 
salvation; nor one, forsooth, who confers eternal light, but another who orders 
those who have not on the wedding garment to be sent into outer darkness. But it 
is one and the same God, the Father of our Lord, from whom also the prophets had 
their mission, who does indeed, through His infinite kindness, call the 
unworthy; but He examines those who are called, [to ascertain] if they have on 
the garment fit and proper for the marriage of His Son, because nothing 
unbecoming or evil pleases Him. This is in accordance with what the Lord said to 
the man who had been healed: "Behold, thou art made whole; sin no more, lest a 
worse thing come unto thee." 
For he who is good, and righteous, and pure, and spotless, will endure nothing 
evil, nor unjust, nor detestable in His wedding chamber. This is the Father of 
our Lord, by whose providence all things consist, and all are administered by 
His command; and He confers His free gifts upon those who should [receive them]; 
but the most righteous Retributor metes out [punishment] according to their 
deserts, most deservedly, to the ungrateful and to those that are insensible of 
His kindness; and therefore does He say, "He sent His armies, and destroyed 
those murderers, and burned up their city." 
He says here, "His armies," because all men are the property of God. For "the 
earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof; the world, and all that dwell 
therein." 
Wherefore also the Apostle Paul says in the Epistle to the Romans, "For there is 
no power but of God; the powers that be are ordained of God. Whosoever resisteth 
the power, resisteth the ordinance of God; and they that resist shall receive 
unto themselves condemnation. For rulers are not for a terror to a good work, 
but to an evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? Do that which is 
good, and thou shalt have praise of the same; for he is the minister of God to 
thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid; for he beareth not 
the sword in vain: for he is the minister of God, the avenger for wrath upon him 
that doeth evil. Wherefore ye must needs be subject, not only for wrath, but 
also for conscience sake. For this cause pay ye tribute also; for they are God's 
ministers, attending continually upon this very thing." 
Both the Lord, then, and the apostles announce as the one only God the Father, 
Him who gave the law, who sent the prophets, who made all things; and therefore 
does, He say, "He sent His armies," because every man, inasmuch as he is a man, 
is His workmanship, although he may be ignorant of his God. For He gives 
existence to all; He, "who maketh His sun to rise upon the evil and the good, 
and sendeth rain upon the just and unjust." 

7. And not alone by what has been stated, but also by the parable of the two 
sons, the younger of whom consumed his substance by living luxuriously with 
harlots, did the Lord teach one and the same Father, who did not even allow a 
kid to his elder son; but for him who had been lost, [namely] his younger son, 
he ordered the fatted calf to be killed, and he gave him the best robe. 
Also by the parable of the workmen who were sent into the vineyard at different 
periods of the day, one and the same God is declared 
as having called some in the beginning, when the world was first created; but 
others afterwards, and others during the intermediate period, others after a 
long lapse of time, and others again in the end of lime; so that there are many 
workmen in their generations, but only one householder who calls them together. 
For there is but one vineyard, since there is also but one righteousness, and 
one dispensator, for there is one Spirit of God who arranges all things; and in 
like manner is there one hire, for they all received a penny each man, having 
[stamped upon it] the royal image and superscription, the knowledge of the Son 
of God, which is immortality. And therefore He began by giving the hire to those 
[who were engaged] last, because in the last times, when `the Lord was revealed 
He presented Himself to all [as their reward].
8. Then, in the case of the publican, who ex celled the Pharisee in prayer, 
[we find] that it was not because he worshipped another Father that he received 
testimony from the Lord that he was justified rather [than the other]; but 
because with great humility, apart from all boasting and pride, he made 
confession to the same God. 
The parable of the two sons also: those who are sent into the vineyard, of whom 
one indeed opposed his father, but afterwards repented, when repentance profited 
him nothing; the other, however, promised to go, at once assuring his father, 
but he did not go (for "every man is a liar; " 
"to will is present with him, but he finds not means to perform" 
),-[this parable, I say], points out one and the same Father. Then, again, this 
truth was clearly shown forth by the parable of the fig-tree, of which the Lord 
says, "Behold, now these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig-tree, but 
I find none" 
(pointing onwards, by the prophets, to His advent, by whom He came from time to 
time, seeking the fruit of righteousness from them, which he did not find), and 
also by the circumstance that, for the reason already mentioned, the fig-tree 
should be hewn down. And, without using a parable, the Lord said to Jerusalem, 
`O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and stonest those that 
are sent unto thee; how often would I have gathered thy children together, as a 
hen gathereth her chickens trader her wings, and ye would not! Behold, your 
house shall be left unto you desolate." 
For that which had been said in the parable, "Behold, for three years I come 
seeking fruit," and in clear terms, again, [where He says]," How often would I 
have gathered thy children together," shall be [found] a falsehood, if we do not 
understand His advent, which is [announced] by the prophets-if, in fact, He came 
to them but once, and then for the first time. But since He who chose the 
patriarchs and those [who lived under the first covenant], is the same Word of 
God who did both visit them through the prophetic Spirit, and us also who have 
been called together from all quarters by His advent; in addition to what has 
been already said, He truly declared, "Many shall come from the east and from 
the west, and shall recline with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom 
of heaven. But the children of the kingdom shall go into outer darkness; there 
shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth." 
If, then, those who do believe in Him through the preaching of His apostles 
throughout the east and west shall recline with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, in 
the kingdom of heaven, partaking with them of the [heavenly] banquet, one and 
the same God is set forth as He who did indeed choose the patriarchs, visited 
also the people, and called the Gentiles.

Chapter XXXVII.-Men are Possessed of 
  Free Will, and Endowed with the Faculty of Making a Choice. It is Not True, 
  Therefore, that Some are by Nature Good, and Others Bad.
1. This expression [of our Lord], "How often would I have gathered thy 
children together, and thou wouldest not," 
set forth the ancient law of human liberty, because God made man a free [agent] 
from the beginning, possessing his own power, even as he does his own soul, to 
obey the behests (ad utendum sententia) of God voluntarily, and not by 
compulsion of God. For there is no coercion with God, but a good will [towards 
us] is present with Him continually. And therefore does He give good counsel to 
all. And in man, as well as in angels, He has placed the power of choice (for 
angels are rational beings), so that those who had yielded obedience might 
justly possess what is good, given indeed by God, but preserved by themselves. 
On the other hand, they who have not obeyed shall, with justice, be not found in 
possession of the good, and shall receive condign punishment: for God did kindly 
bestow on them what was good; but they themselves did not diligently keep it, 
nor deem it something precious, but poured contempt upon His super-eminent 
goodness. Rejecting therefore the good, and as it were spuing it out, they shall 
all deservedly incur the just judgment of God, which also the Apostle Paul 
testifies in his Epistle to the Romans, where he says, "But dost thou despise 
the riches of His goodness, and patience, and long-suffering, being ignorant 
that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? But according to thy 
hardness and impenitent heart, thou treasurest to thyself wrath against the day 
of wrath, and the revelation of the righteous judgment of God." "But glory and 
honour," he says, "to every one that doeth good." 
God therefore has given that which is good, as the apostle tells us in this 
Epistle, and they who work it shall receive glory and honour, because they have 
done that which is good when they had it in their power not to do it; but those 
who do it not shall receive the just judgment of God, because they did not work 
good when they had it in their power so to do.
2. But if some had been made by nature bad, and others good, these latter 
would not be deserving of praise for being good, for such were they created; nor 
would the former be reprehensible, for thus they were made [originally]. But 
since all men are of the same nature, able both to hold fast and to do what is 
good; and, on the other hand, having also the power to cast it from them and not 
to do it,-some do justly receive praise even among men who are under the control 
of good laws (and much more from God), and obtain deserved testimony of their 
choice of good in general, and of persevering therein; but the others are 
blamed, and receive a just condemnation, because of their rejection of what is 
fair and good. And therefore the prophets used to exhort men to what was good, 
to act justly and to work righteousness, as I have so largely demonstrated, 
because it is in our power so to do, and because by excessive negligence we 
might become forgetful, and thus stand in need of that good counsel which the 
good God has given us to know by means of the prophets.
3. For this reason the Lord also said, "Let your light so shine before men, 
that they may see your good deeds, and glorify your Father who is in 
heaven." 
And, "Take heed to yourselves, lest perchance your hearts be overcharged with 
surfeiting, and drunkenness, and worldly cares." 
And, "Let your loins be girded about, and your lamps burning, and ye like unto 
men that wait for their Lord, when He returns from the wedding, that when He 
cometh and knocketh, they may open to Him. Blessed is that servant whom his 
Lord, when He cometh, shall find so doing." 
And again, "The servant who knows his Lord's will, and does it not, shall be 
beaten with many stripes." 
And, "Why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? " 
And again, "But if the servant say in his heart, The Lord delayeth, and begin to 
beat his fellow-servants, and to eat, and drink, and to be drunken, his Lord 
will come in a day on which he does not expect Him, and shall cut him in sunder, 
and appoint his portion with the hypocrites." 
All such passages demonstrate the independent will 
of man, and at the same time the counsel which God conveys to him, by which He 
exhorts us to submit ourselves to Him, and seeks to turn us away from [the sin 
of] unbelief against Him, without, however, in any way coercing us.
4. No doubt, if any one is unwilling to follow the Gospel itself, it is in 
his power [to reject it], but it is not expedient. For it is in man's power to 
disobey God, and to forfeit what is good; but [such conduct] brings no small 
amount of injury and mischief. And on this account Paul says, "All things are 
lawful to me, but all things are not expedient; " 
referring both to the liberty of man, in which respect "all things are lawful," 
God exercising no compulsion in regard to him; and [by the expression] "not 
expedient" pointing out that we "should not use our liberty as a cloak of 
maliciousness, 
for this is not expedient. And again he says, "Speak ye every man truth with his 
neighbour." 
And, "Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, neither 
filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor scurrility, which are not convenient, but 
rather giving of thanks." 
And, "For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord; walk 
honestly as children of the light, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in 
chambering and wantonness, not in anger and jealousy. And such were some of you; 
but ye have been washed, but ye have been sanctified in the name of our 
Lord." 
If then it were not in our power to do or not to do these things, what reason 
had the apostle, and much more the Lord Himself, to give us counsel to do some 
things, and to abstain from others? But because man is possessed of free will 
from the beginning, and God is possessed of free will, in whose likeness man was 
created, advice is always given to him to keep fast the good, which thing is 
done by means of obedience to God.
5. And not merely in works, but also in faith, has God preserved the will of 
man free and under his own control, saying, "According to thy faith be it unto 
thee; " 
thus showing that there is a faith specially belonging to man, since he has an 
opinion specially his own. And again, "All things are possible to him that 
believeth; " 
and, "Go thy way; and as thou hast believed, so be it done unto thee." 
Now all such expressions demonstrate that man is in his own power with respect 
to faith. And for this reason, "he that believeth in Him has eternal life while 
he who believeth not the Son hath not eternal life, but the wrath of God shall 
remain upon him." 
In the same manner therefore the Lord, both showing His own goodness, and 
indicating that man is in his own free will and his own power, said to 
Jerusalem, "How often have I wished to gather thy children together, as a hen 
[gathereth] her chickens under her wings, and ye would not! Wherefore your house 
shall be left unto you desolate." 

6. Those, again, who maintain the opposite to these [`conclusions], do 
themselves present the Lord as destitute of power, as if, forsooth, He were 
unable to accomplish what He willed; or, on the other hand, as being ignorant 
that they were by nature "material," as these men express it, and such as cannot 
receive His immortality. "But He should not," say they, "have created angels of 
such a nature that they were capable of transgression, nor men who immediately 
proved ungrateful towards Him; for they were made rational beings, endowed with 
the power of examining and judging, and were not [formed] as things irrational 
or of a [merely] animal nature, which can do nothing of their own will, but are 
drawn by necessity and compulsion to what is good, in which things there is one 
mind and one usage, working mechanically in one groove (inflexibiles et sine 
judicio), who are incapable of being anything else except just what they had 
been created." But upon this supposition, neither would what is good be grateful 
to them, nor communion with God be precious, nor would the good be very much to 
be sought after, which would present itself without their own proper endeavour, 
care, or study, but would be implanted of its own accord and without their 
concern. Thus it would come to pass, that their being good would be of no 
consequence, because they were so by nature rather than by will, and are 
possessors of good spontaneously, not by choice; and for this reason they would 
not understand this fact, that good is a comely thing, nor would they take 
pleasure in it. For how can those who are ignorant of good enjoy it? Or what 
credit is it to those who have not aimed at it? And what crown is it to those 
who have not followed in pursuit of it, like those victorious in the 
contest?
7. On this account, too, did the Lord assert that the kingdom of heaven was 
the portion of "the violent; "and He says, "The violent take it by force; 
" 
that is, those who by strength and earnest striving axe on the watch to snatch 
it away on the moment. On this account also Paul the Apostle says to the 
Corinthians, "Know ye not, that they who run in a racecourse, do all indeed run, 
but one receiveth the prize? So run, that ye may obtain. Every one also who 
engages in the contest is temperate in all things: now these men [do it] that 
they may obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. But I so run, not 
as uncertainty; I fight, not as One beating the air; but I make my body livid, 
and bring it into subjection, lest by any means, when preaching to others, I may 
myself be rendered a castaway." 
This able wrestler, therefore, exhorts us to the struggle for immortality, that 
we may be crowned, and may deem the crown precious, namely, that which is 
acquired by our struggle, but which does not encircle us of its own accord 
(sed non ultro coalitam). And the harder we strive, so much is it the 
more valuable; while so much the more valuable it is, so much the more should we 
esteem it. And indeed those things axe not esteemed so highly which come 
spontaneously, as those which are reached by much anxious care. Since, then, 
this power has been conferred upon us, both the Lord has taught and the apostle 
has enjoined us the more to love God, that we may reach this [prize] for 
ourselves by striving after it. For otherwise, no doubt, this our good would be 
[virtually] irrational, because not the result of trial. Moreover, the faculty 
of seeing would not appear to be so desirable, unless we had known what a loss 
it were to be devoid of sight; and health, too, is rendered all the more 
estimable by an acquaintance with disease; light, also, by contrasting it with 
darkness; and life with death. Just in the same way is the heavenly kingdom 
honourable to those who have known the earthly one. But in proportion as it is 
more honourable, so much the more do we prize it; and if we have prized it more, 
we shall be the more glorious in the presence of God. The Lord has therefore 
endured all these things on our behalf, in order that we, having been instructed 
by means of them all, may be in all respects circumspect for the time to come, 
and that, having been rationally taught to love God, we may continue in His 
perfect love: for God has displayed long-suffering in the case of man's 
apostasy; while man has been instructed by means of it, as also the prophet 
says, "Thine own apostasy shall heal thee; " 
God thus determining all things beforehand for the bringing of man to 
perfection, for his edification, and for the revelation of His dispensations, 
that goodness may both be made apparent, and righteousness perfected, and that 
the Church may be fashioned after the image of His Son, and that man may finally 
be brought to maturity at some future time, becoming ripe through such 
privileges to see and comprehend God. 


Chapter XXXVIII.-Why Man Was Not 
  Made Perfect from the Beginning. 
1. If, however, any one say, "What then? Could not God have exhibited man as 
perfect from beginning? "let him know that, inasmuch as God is indeed always the 
same and unbegotten as respects Himself, all things are possible to Him. But 
created things must be inferior to Him who created them, from the very fact of 
their later origin; for it was not possible for things recently created to have 
been uncreated. But inasmuch as they are not uncreated, for this very reason do 
they come short of the perfect. Because, as these things are of later date, so 
are they infantile; so are they unaccustomed to, and unexercised in, perfect 
discipline. For as it certainly is in the power of a mother to give strong food 
to her infant, [but she does not do so], as the child is not yet able to receive 
more substantial nourishment; so also it was possible for God Himself to have 
made man perfect from the first, but man could not receive this [perfection], 
being as yet an infant. And for this cause our Lord in these last times, when He 
had summed up all things into Himself, came to us, not as He might have come, 
but as we were capable of beholding Him. He might easily have come to us in His 
immortal glory, but in that case we could never have endured the greatness of 
the glory; and therefore it was that He, who was the perfect bread of the 
Father, offered Himself to us as milk, [because we were] as infants. He did this 
when He appeared as a man, that we, being nourished, as it were, from the breast 
of His flesh, and having, by such a course of milk nourishment, become 
accustomed to eat and drink the Word of God, may be able also to contain in 
ourselves the Bread of immortality, which is the Spirit of the Father.
2. And on this account does Paul declare to the Corinthians, "I have fed you 
with milk, not with meat, for hitherto ye were not able to bear it." 
That is, ye have indeed learned the advent of our Lord as a man; nevertheless, 
because of your infirmity, the Spirit of the Father has not as yet rested upon 
you. "For when envying and strife," he says, "and dissensions are among you, are 
ye not carnal, and walk as men? " 
That is, that the Spirit of the Father was not yet with them, on account of 
their imperfection and shortcomings of their walk in life. As, therefore, the 
apostle had the power to give them strong meat-for those upon whom the apostles 
laid hands received the Holy Spirit, who is the food of life [eternal]-but they 
were not capable of receiving it, because they had the sentient faculties of the 
soul still feeble and undisciplined in the practice of things pertaining to God; 
so, in like manner, God had power at the beginning to grant perfection to man; 
but as the latter was only recently created, he could not possibly have received 
it, or even if he had received it, could he have contained it, or containing it, 
could he have retained it. It was for this reason that the Son of God, although 
He was perfect, passed through the state of infancy in common with the rest of 
mankind, partaking of it thus not for His own benefit, but for that of the 
infantile stage of man's existence, in order that man might be able to receive 
Him. There was nothing, therefore, impossible to and deficient in God, [implied 
in the fact] that man was not an uncreated being; but this merely applied to him 
who was lately created, [namely] man.
3. With God there are simultaneously exhibited power, wisdom, and goodness. 
His power and goodness [appear] in this, that of His own will He called into 
being and fashioned things having no previous existence; His wisdom [is shown] 
in His having made created things parts of one harmonious and consistent whole; 
and those things which, through His super-eminent kindness, receive growth and a 
long period of existence, do reflect the glory of the uncreated One, of that God 
who bestows what is good ungrudgingly. For from the very fact of these things 
having been created, [it follows] that they are not uncreated; but by their 
continuing in being throughout a long course of ages, they shall receive a 
faculty of the Uncreated, through the gratuitous bestowal of eternal existence 
upon them by God. And thus in all things God has the pre-eminence, who alone is 
uncreated, the first of all things, and the primary cause of the existence of 
all, while all other things remain under God's subjection. But being in 
subjection to God is continuance in immortality, and immortality is the glory of 
the uncreated One. By this arrangement, therefore, and these harmonies, and a 
sequence of this nature, man, a created and organized being, is rendered after 
the image and likeness of the uncreated God, -the Father planning everything 
well and giving His commands, the Son carrying these into execution and 
performing the work of creating, and the Spirit nourishing and increasing [what 
is made], but man making progress day by day, and ascending towards the perfect, 
that is, approximating to the uncreated One. For the Uncreated is perfect, that 
is, God. Now it was necessary that man should in the first instance be created; 
and having been created, should receive growth; and having received growth, 
should be strengthened; and having been strengthened, should abound; and having 
abounded, should recover [from the disease of sin]; and having recovered, should 
be glorified; and being glorified, should see his Lord. For God is He who is yet 
to be seen, and the beholding of God is productive of immortality, but 
immortality renders one nigh unto God.
4. Irrational, therefore, in every respect, are they who await not the time 
of increase, but ascribe to God the infirmity of their nature. Such persons know 
neither God nor themselves, being insatiable and ungrateful, unwilling to be at 
the outset what they have also been created-men subject to passions; but go 
beyond the law of the human race, and before that they become men, they wish to 
be even now like God their Creator, and they who are more destitute of reason 
than dumb animals [insist] that there is no distinction between the uncreated 
God and man, a creature of to-day. For these, [the dumb animals], bring no 
charge against God for not having made them men; but each one, just as he has 
been created, gives thanks that he has been created. For we cast blame upon Him, 
because we have not been made gods from the beginning, but at first merely men, 
then at length gods; although God has adopted this course out of His pure 
benevolence, that no one may impute to Him invidiousness or grudgingness. He 
declares, "I have said, Ye are gods; and ye are all sons of the Highest." 
But since we could not sustain the power of divinity, He adds, "But ye shall die 
like men," setting forth both truths-the kindness of His free gift, and our 
weakness, and also that we were possessed of power over ourselves. For after His 
great kindness He graciously conferred good [upon us], and made men like to 
Himself, [that is] in their own power; while at the same time by His prescience 
He knew the infirmity of human beings, and the consequences which would flow 
from it; but through [His] love and [His] power, He shall overcome the substance 
of created nature. 
For it was necessary, at first, that nature should be exhibited; then, after 
that, that what was mortal should be conquered and swallowed up by immortality, 
and the corruptible by incorruptibility, and that man should be made after the 
image and likeness of God, having received the knowledge of good and evil.

Chapter XXXIX.-Man is Endowed with 
  the Faculty of Distinguishing Good and Evil; So That, Without Compulsion, He 
  Has the Power, by His Own Will and Choice, to Perform God's Commandments, by 
  Doing Which He Avoids the Evils Prepared for the Rebellious.
1. Man has received the knowledge of good and evil. It is good to obey God, 
and to believe in Him, and to keep His commandment, and this is the life of man; 
as not to obey God is evil, and this is his death. Since God, therefore, gave 
[to man] such mental power (magnanimitatem) man knew both the good of 
obedience and the evil of disobedience, that the eye of the mind, receiving 
experience of both, may with judgment make choice of the better things; and that 
he may never become indolent or neglectful of God's command; and learning by 
experience that it is an evil thing which deprives him of life, that is, 
disobedience to God, may never attempt it at all, but that, knowing that what 
preserves his life, namely, obedience to God, is good, he may diligently keep it 
with all earnestness. Wherefore he has also had a twofold experience, possessing 
knowledge of both kinds, that with discipline he may make choice of the better 
things. But how, if he had no knowledge of the contrary, could he have had 
instruction in that which is good? For there is thus a surer and an undoubted 
comprehension of matters submitted to us than the mere surmise arising from an 
opinion regarding them. For just as the tongue receives experience of sweet and 
bitter by means of tasting, and the eye discriminates between black and white by 
means of vision, and the ear recognises the distinctions of sounds by hearing; 
so also does the mind, receiving through the experience of both the knowledge of 
what is good, become more tenacious of its preservation, by acting in obedience 
to God: in the first place, casting away, by means of repentance, disobedience, 
as being something disagreeable and nauseous; and afterwards coming to 
understand what it really is, that it is contrary to goodness and sweetness, so 
that the mind may never even attempt to taste disobedience to God. But if any 
one do shun the knowledge of both these kinds of things, and the twofold 
perception of knowledge, he unawares divests himself of the character of a human 
being.
2. How, then, shall he be a God, who has not as yet been made a man? Or how 
can he be perfect who was but lately created? How, again, can he be immortal, 
who in his mortal nature did not obey his Maker? For it must be that thou, at 
the outset, shouldest hold the rank of a man, and then afterwards partake of the 
glory of God. For thou dost not make God, but God thee. If, then, thou art God's 
workmanship, await the hand of thy Maker which creates everything in due time; 
in due time as far as thou art concerned, whose creation is being carried 
out. 
Offer to Him thy heart in a soft and tractable state, and preserve the form in 
which the Creator has fashioned thee, having moisture in thyself, lest, by 
becoming hardened, thou lose the impressions of His fingers. But by preserving 
the framework thou shalt ascend to that which is perfect, for the moist clay 
which is in thee is hidden [there] by the workmanship of God. His hand fashioned 
thy substance; He will cover thee over [too] within and without with pure gold 
and silver, and He will adorn thee to such a degree, that even "the King Himself 
shall have pleasure in thy beauty." 
But if thou, being obstinately hardened, dost reject the operation of His skill, 
and show thyself ungrateful towards Him, because thou weft created a [mere] man, 
by becoming thus ungrateful to God, thou hast at once lost both His workmanship 
and life. For creation is an attribute of the goodness of God but to be created 
is that of human nature. If then, thou shalt deliver up to Him what is thine 
that is, faith towards Him and subjection, thou shalt receive His handiwork, and 
shall be a perfect work of God.
3. If, however, thou wilt not believe in Him, and wilt flee from His hands, 
the cause of imperfection shall be in thee who didst not obey, but not in Him 
who called [thee]. For He commissioned [messengers] to call people to the 
marriage, but they who did not obey Him deprived themselves of the royal 
supper. 
The skill of God, therefore, is not defective, for He has power of the stones to 
raise up children to Abraham; 
but the man who does not obtain it is the cause to himself of his own 
imperfection. Nor, [in like manner], does the light fail because of those who 
have blinded themselves; but while it remains the same as ever, those who are 
[thus] blinded are involved in darkness through. their own fault. The light does 
never enslave any one by necessity; nor, again, does God exercise compulsion 
upon any one unwilling to accept the exercise of His skill. Those persons, 
therefore, who have apostatized from the light given by the Father, and 
transgressed the law of liberty, have done so through their own fault, since 
they have been created free agents, and possessed of power over themselves.
4. But God, foreknowing all things, prepared fit habitations for both, kindly 
conferring that light which they desire on those who seek after the light of 
incorruption, and resort to it; but for the despisers and mockers who avoid and 
turn themselves away from this light, and who do, as it were, blind themselves, 
He has prepared darkness suitable to persons who oppose the light, and He has 
inflicted an appropriate punishment upon those who try to avoid being subject to 
Him. Submission to God is eternal rest, so that they who shun the light have a 
place worthy of their flight; and those who fly from eternal rest, have a 
habitation in accordance with their fleeing. Now, since all good things are with 
God, they who by their own determination fly from God, do defraud themselves of 
all good things; and having been [thus] defrauded of all good things with 
respect to God, they shall consequently fall under the just judgment of God. For 
those persons who shun rest shall justly incur punishment, and those who avoid 
the light shall justly dwell in darkness. For as in the case of this temporal 
light, those who shun it do deliver themselves over to darkness, so that they do 
themselves become the cause to themselves that they are destitute of light, and 
do inhabit darkness; and, as I have already observed, the light is not the cause 
of such an [unhappy.] condition of existence to them; so those who fly from the 
eternal light of God, which contains in itself all good things, are themselves 
the cause to themselves of their inhabiting eternal darkness, destitute of all 
good things, having become to themselves the cause of [their consignment to] an 
abode of that

Chapter XL.-One and the Same God the 
  Father Inflicts Punishment on the Reprobate, and Bestows Rewards on the 
  Elect.
1. It is therefore one and the same God the Father who has prepared good 
things with Himself for those who desire His fellowship, and who remain in 
subjection to Him; and who has the eternal fire for the ringleader of the 
apostasy, the devil, and those who revolted with him, into which [fire] the 
Lord 
has declared those men shall be sent who have been set apart by themselves on 
His left hand. And this is what has been spoken by the prophet, "I am a jealous 
God, making peace, and creating evil things; " 
thus making peace and friendship with those who repent and turn to Him, and 
bringing [them to] unity, but preparing for the impenitent, those who shun the 
light, eternal fire and outer darkness, which are evils indeed to those persons 
who fall into them. 
2. If, however, it were truly one Father who confers rest, and another God 
who has prepared the fire, their sons would have been equally different [one 
from the other]; one, indeed, sending [men] into the Father's kingdom, but the 
other into eternal fire. But inasmuch as one and the same Lord has pointed out 
that the whole human race shall be divided at the judgment, "as a shepherd 
divideth the sheep from the goats," 
and that to some He will say, "Come, ye blessed of My Father, receive the 
kingdom which has been prepared for you," 
but to others, "Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, which My 
Father has prepared for the devil and his angels," 
one and the same Father is manifestly declared [in this passage], "making peace 
and creating evil things," preparing fit things for both; as also there is one 
Judge sending both into a fit place, as the Lord sets forth in the parable of 
the tares and the wheat, where He says, "As therefore the tares are gathered 
together, and burned in the fire, so shall it be at the end of the world. The 
Son of man shall send His angels, and they shall gather from His kingdom 
everything that offendeth, and those who work iniquity, and shall send them into 
a furnace of fire: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Then shall the 
just shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father." 
The Father, therefore, who has prepared the kingdom for the righteous, into 
which the Son has received those worthy of it, is He who has also prepared the 
furnace of fire, into which these angels commissioned by the Son of man shall 
send those persons who deserve it, according to God's command.
3. The Lord, indeed, sowed good seed in His own field; 
and He says, "The field is the world." But while men slept, the enemy came, and 
"sowed tares in the midst of the wheat, and went his way." 
Hence we learn that this was the apostate angel and the enemy, because he was 
envious of God's workmanship, and took in hand to render this [workmanship] an 
enmity with God. For this cause also God has banished from His presence him who 
did of his own accord stealthily sow the tares, that is, him who brought about 
the transgression; 
but He took compassion upon man, who, through want of care no doubt, but still 
wickedly [on the part of another], became involved in disobedience; and He 
turned the enmity by which [the devil] had designed to make [man] the enemy of 
God, against the author of it, by removing His own anger from man, turning it in 
another direction, and sending it instead upon the serpent. As also the 
Scripture tells us that God said to the serpent, "And I will place enmity 
between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed. He 
shall bruise thy head, and thou shall bruise his heel." 
And the Lord summed up in Himself this enmity, when He was made man from a 
woman, and trod upon his [the serpent's] head, as I have pointed out in the 
preceding book.

Chapter XLI.-Those Persons Who Do 
  Nor Believe in God, But Who are Disobedient, are Angels and Sons of the Devil, 
  Not Indeed by Nature, But by Imitation. Close of This Book, and Scope of the 
  Succeeding One.
1. Inasmuch as the Lord has said that there are certain angels, [viz. those] 
of the devil, for whom eternal fire is prepared; and as, again, He declares with 
regard to the tares, "The tares are the children of the wicked one," 
it must be affirmed that He has ascribed all who are of the apostasy to him who 
is the ringleader of this transgression. But He made neither angels nor men so 
by nature. For we do not find that the devil created anything whatsoever, since 
indeed he is himself a creature of God, like the other angels. For God made all 
things, as also David says with regard to all things of the kind: "For He spake 
the word, and they were made; He commanded, and they were created." 

2. Since, therefore, all things were made by God, and since the devil has 
become the cause of apostasy to himself and others, justly does the Scripture 
always term those who remain in a state of apostasy "sons of the devil" and 
"angels of the wicked one" (maligni). For [the word] "son," as one before 
me has observed, has a twofold meaning: one [is a son] in the order of nature, 
because he was born a son; the other, in that he was made so, is reputed a son, 
although there be a difference between being born so and being made so. For the 
first is indeed born from the person referred to; but the second is made so by 
him, whether as respects his creation or by the teaching of his doctrine. For 
when any person has been taught from the mouth of another, he is termed the son 
of him who instructs him, and the latter [is called] his father. According to 
nature, then -that is, according to creation, so to speak-we are all sons of 
God, because we have all been created by God. But with respect to obedience and 
doctrine we are not all the sons of God: those only are so who believe in Him 
and do His will. And those who do not believe, and do not obey His will, are 
sons and angels of the devil, because they do the works of the devil. And that 
such is the case He has declared in Isaiah: "I have begotten and brought up 
children, but they have rebelled against Me." 
And again, where He says that these children are aliens: "Strange children have 
lied unto Me." 
According to nature, then, they are [His] children, because they have been so 
created; but with regard to their works, they are not His children.
3. For as, among men, those sons who disobey their fathers, being 
disinherited, are still their sons in the course of nature, but by law are 
disinherited, for they do not become the heirs of their natural parents; so in 
the same way is it with God,-those who do not obey Him being disinherited by 
Him, have ceased to be His sons. Wherefore they cannot receive His inheritance: 
as David says, "Sinners are alienated from the womb; their anger is after the 
likeness of a serpent." 
And therefore did the Lord term those whom He knew to be the offspring of men "a 
generation of vipers; " 
because after the manner of these animals they go about in subtilty, and injure 
others. For He said, "Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the 
Sadducees." 
Speaking of Herod, too, He says, "Go ye and tell that fox," 
aiming at his wicked cunning and deceit. Wherefore the prophet David says, "Man, 
being placed in honour, is made like unto cattle." 
And again Jeremiah says, "They are become like horses, furious about females; 
each one neighed after his neighbour's wife." 
And Isaiah, when preaching in Judea, and reasoning with Israel, termed them 
"rulers of Sodom" and "people of Gomorrah; " 
intimating that they were like the Sodomites in wickedness, and that the same 
description of sins was rife among them, calling them by the same name, because 
of the similarity of their conduct. And inasmuch as they were not by nature so 
created by God, but had power also to act rightly, the same person said to them, 
giving them good counsel, "Wash ye, make you clean; take away iniquity from your 
souls before mine eyes; cease from your iniquities." 
Thus, no doubt, since they had transgressed and sinned in the same manner, so 
did they receive the same reproof as did the Sodomites. But when they should be 
converted and come to repentance, and cease from evil, they should have power to 
become the sons of God, and to receive the inheritance of immortality which is 
given by Him. For this reason, therefore, He has termed those "angels of the 
devil," and "children of the wicked one," 
who give heed to the devil, and do his works. But these are, at the same time, 
all created by the one and the same God. When, however, they believe and are 
subject to God, and go on and keep His doctrine, they are the sons of God; but 
when they have apostatized and fallen into transgression, they are ascribed to 
their chief, the devil-to him who first became the cause of apostasy to himself, 
and afterwards to others.
4. Inasmuch as the words of the Lord are numerous, while they all proclaim 
one and the same Father, the Creator of this world, it was incumbent also upon 
me, for their own sake, to refute by many [arguments] those who are involved in 
many errors, if by any means, when they are confuted by many [proofs], they may 
be converted to the truth and saved. But it is necessary to subjoin to this 
composition, in what follows, also the doctrine of Paul after the words of the 
Lord, to examine the opinion of this man, and expound the apostle, and to 
explain whatsoever [passages] have received other interpretations from the 
heretics, who have altogether misunderstood what Paul has spoken, and to point 
out the folly of their mad opinions; and to demonstrate from that same Paul, 
from whose [writings] they press questions upon us, that they are indeed 
utterers of falsehood, but that the apostle was a preacher of the truth, and 
that he taught all things agreeable to the preaching of the truth; [to the 
effect that] it was one God the Father who spake with Abraham, who gave the law, 
who sent the prophets beforehand, who in the last times sent His Son, and 
conferred salvation upon His own handiwork-that is, the substance of flesh. 
Arranging, then, in another book, the rest of the words of the Lord, which He 
taught concerning the Father not by parables, but by expressions taken in their 
obvious meaning (sed simpliciter ipsis dictionibus), and the exposition 
of the Epistles of the blessed apostle, I shall, with God's aid, furnish thee 
with the complete work of the exposure and refutation of knowledge, falsely so 
called; thus practising myself and thee in [these] five books for presenting 
opposition to all heretics. 

