
Epistle of James












Book of James. The General Epistle of James

1:1James, a servant of God and of the Lord 
Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are of the Dispersion, greeting. 1:2Count it all joy, my brethren, when ye 
fall into manifold temptations; 1:3Knowing that the proving of your faith 
worketh patience. 1:4And let patience have its perfect 
work, that ye may be perfect and entire, lacking in nothing. 1:5But if any of you 
lacketh wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all liberally and upbraideth 
not; and it shall be given him. 1:6But let him ask in faith, nothing 
doubting: for he that doubteth is like the surge of the sea driven by the wind 
and tossed. 1:7For let not that man think that he shall 
receive anything of the Lord; 1:8a doubleminded man, unstable in all his 
ways. 1:9But let the brother of low degree glory 
in his high estate: 1:10and the rich, in that he is made low: 
because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away. 1:11For the sun ariseth 
with the scorching wind, and withereth the grass: and the flower thereof 
falleth, and the grace of the fashion of it perisheth: so also shall the rich 
man fade away in his goings. 1:12Blessed is the man that endureth 
temptation; for when he hath been approved, he shall receive the crown of life, 
which the Lord promised to them that love him. 1:13Let no man say when 
he is tempted, I am tempted of God; for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he 
himself tempteth no man: 1:14but each man is tempted, when he is 
drawn away by his own lust, and enticed. 1:15Then the lust, when it hath conceived, 
beareth sin: and the sin, when it is fullgrown, bringeth forth death. 1:16Be 
not deceived, my beloved brethren. 1:17Every good gift and every perfect gift 
is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom can be no 
variation, neither shadow that is cast by turning. 1:18Of his own will he 
brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits 
of his creatures. 1:19Ye know this, my beloved 
brethren. But let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath: 1:20for the wrath of man worketh not the 
righteousness of God. 1:21Wherefore putting away all filthiness 
and overflowing of wickedness, receive with meekness the implanted word, which 
is able to save your souls. 1:22But be ye doers of the word, and not 
hearers only, deluding your own selves. 1:23For if any one is a hearer of the word 
and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a mirror: 1:24for he beholdeth himself, and goeth 
away, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. 1:25But he that looketh 
into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and so continueth, being 
not a hearer that forgetteth but a doer that worketh, this man shall be blessed 
in his doing. 1:26If any man thinketh himself to be 
religious, while he bridleth not his tongue but deceiveth his heart, this man's 
religion is vain. 1:27Pure religion and undefiled before our 
God and Father is this, to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, 
and to keep oneself unspotted from the world. 

2:1My brethren, hold not the faith of our 
Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons. 2:2For 
if there come into your synagogue a man with a gold ring, in fine clothing, and 
there come in also a poor man in vile clothing; 2:3and ye have regard 
to him that weareth the fine clothing, and say, Sit thou here in a good place; 
and ye say to the poor man, Stand thou there, or sit under my footstool; 2:4Do 
ye not make distinctions among yourselves, and become judges with evil thoughts? 
2:5Hearken, my beloved brethren; did not 
God choose them that are poor as to the world to be rich in faith, and 
heirs of the kingdom which he promised to them that love him? 2:6But ye have 
dishonored the poor man. Do not the rich oppress you, and themselves drag you 
before the judgment-seats? 2:7Do not they blaspheme the honorable name 
by which ye are called? 2:8Howbeit if ye fulfil the royal law, 
according to the scripture, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself, ye do well: 
2:9but if ye have respect of persons, ye 
commit sin, being convicted by the law as transgressors. 2:10For whosoever shall 
keep the whole law, and yet stumble in one point, he is become guilty of 
all. 2:11For he that said, Do not commit 
adultery, said also, Do not kill. Now if thou dost not commit adultery, but 
killest, thou art become a transgressor of the law. 2:12So speak ye, and so 
do, as men that are to be judged by a law of liberty. 2:13For judgment 
is without mercy to him that hath showed no mercy: mercy glorieth against 
judgment. 2:14What doth it profit, my brethren, if a 
man say he hath faith, but have not works? can that faith save him? 2:15If 
a brother or sister be naked and in lack of daily food, 2:16and one of you say 
unto them, Go in peace, be ye warmed and filled; and yet ye give them not the 
things needful to the body; what doth it profit? 2:17Even so faith, if 
it have not works, is dead in itself. 2:18Yea, a man will say, Thou hast faith, 
and I have works: show me thy faith apart from thy works, and I by my 
works will show thee my faith. 2:19Thou believest that God is one; thou 
doest well: the demons also believe, and shudder. 2:20But wilt thou know, 
O vain man, that faith apart from works is barren? 2:21Was not Abraham our 
father justified by works, in that he offered up Isaac his son upon the altar? 
2:22Thou seest that faith wrought with his 
works, and by works was faith made perfect; 2:23and the scripture 
was fulfilled which saith, And Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned unto 
him for righteousness; and he was called the friend of God. 2:24Ye see that by 
works a man is justified, and not only by faith. 2:25And in like manner 
was not also Rahab the harlot justified by works, in that she received the 
messengers, and sent them out another way? 2:26For as the body 
apart from the spirit is dead, even so faith apart from works is dead. 

3:1Be not many of you teachers, my 
brethren, knowing that we shall receive heavier judgment. 3:2For in many things 
we all stumble. If any stumbleth not in word, the same is a perfect man, able to 
bridle the whole body also. 3:3Now if we put the horses' bridles into 
their mouths that they may obey us, we turn about their whole body also. 3:4Behold, the ships also, though they are 
so great and are driven by rough winds, are yet turned about by a very small 
rudder, whither the impulse of the steersman willeth. 3:5So the tongue also 
is a little member, and boasteth great things. Behold, how much wood is kindled 
by how small a fire! 3:6And the tongue is a fire: the world of 
iniquity among our members is the tongue, which defileth the whole body, and 
setteth on fire the wheel of nature, and is set on fire by hell. 3:7For 
every kind of beasts and birds, of creeping things and things in the sea, is 
tamed, and hath been tamed by mankind. 3:8But the tongue can no man tame; it 
is a restless evil, it is full of deadly poison. 3:9Therewith bless we 
the Lord and Father; and therewith curse we men, who are made after the likeness 
of God: 3:10out of the same mouth cometh forth 
blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be. 3:11Doth the fountain send forth from the 
same opening sweet water and bitter? 3:12Can a fig tree, my 
brethren, yield olives, or a vine figs? Neither can salt water yield 
sweet. 3:13Who is wise and understanding among 
you? let him show by his good life his works in meekness of wisdom. 3:14But if ye have bitter jealousy and 
faction in your heart, glory not and lie not against the truth. 3:15This wisdom is not a wisdom that 
cometh down from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish. 3:16For where jealousy 
and faction are, there is confusion and every vile deed. 3:17But the wisdom that 
is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated, full 
of mercy and good fruits, without variance, without hypocrisy. 3:18And the fruit of righteousness is sown 
in peace for them that make peace. 


4:1Whence come wars and whence 
come fightings among you? come they not hence, even of your 
pleasures that war in your members? 4:2Ye lust, and have not: ye kill, and 
covet, and cannot obtain: ye fight and war; ye have not, because ye ask not. 4:3Ye 
ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may spend it in your 
pleasures. 4:4Ye adulteresses, know ye not that the 
friendship of the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore would be a 
friend of the world maketh himself an enemy of God. 4:5Or think ye that the 
scripture speaketh in vain? Doth the spirit which he made to dwell in us long 
unto envying? 4:6But he giveth more grace. Wherefore 
the scripture saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the 
humble. 4:7Be subject therefore unto God; but 
resist the devil, and he will flee from you. 4:8Draw nigh to God, 
and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners; and purify your 
hearts, ye doubleminded. 4:9Be afflicted, and mourn, and weep: let 
your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness. 4:10Humble yourselves in the sight of the 
Lord, and he shall exalt you. 4:11Speak not one against another, 
brethren. He that speaketh against a brother, or judgeth his brother, speaketh 
against the law, and judgeth the law: but if thou judgest the law, thou art not 
a doer of the law, but a judge. 4:12One only is the lawgiver and 
judge, even he who is able to save and to destroy: but who art thou that 
judgest thy neighbor? 4:13Come now, ye that say, To-day or 
to-morrow we will go into this city, and spend a year there, and trade, and get 
gain: 4:14whereas ye know not what shall be on 
the morrow. What is your life? For ye are a vapor, that appeareth for a little 
time, and then vanisheth away. 4:15For that ye ought to say, If the Lord 
will, we shall both live, and do this or that. 4:16But now ye glory in 
your vauntings: all such glorying is evil. 4:17To him therefore 
that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin. 


5:1Come now, ye rich, weep and howl for 
your miseries that are coming upon you. 5:2Your riches are corrupted, and your 
garments are moth-eaten. 5:3Your gold and your silver are rusted; 
and their rust shall be for a testimony against you, and shall eat your flesh as 
fire. Ye have laid up your treasure in the last days. 5:4Behold, the hire of 
the laborers who mowed your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth 
out: and the cries of them that reaped have entered into the ears of the Lord of 
Sabaoth. 5:5Ye have lived delicately on the earth, 
and taken your pleasure; ye have nourished your hearts in a day of slaughter. 5:6Ye 
have condemned, ye have killed the righteous one; he doth not resist you. 
5:7Be patient therefore, brethren, until 
the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of 
the earth, being patient over it, until it receive the early and latter rain. 5:8Be 
ye also patient; establish your hearts: for the coming of the Lord is at hand. 
5:9Murmur not, brethren, one against 
another, that ye be not judged: behold, the judge standeth before the doors. 5:10Take, brethren, for an example of 
suffering and of patience, the prophets who spake in the name of the Lord. 5:11Behold, we call them blessed that 
endured: ye have heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the end of the 
Lord, how that the Lord is full of pity, and merciful. 5:12But above all 
things, my brethren, swear not, neither by the heaven, nor by the earth, nor by 
any other oath: but let your yea be yea, and your nay, nay; that ye fall not 
under judgment. 5:13Is any among you suffering? Let him 
pray. Is any cheerful? Let him sing praise. 5:14Is any among you 
sick? Let him call for the elders of the church; and let them pray over him, 
anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord: 5:15and the prayer of 
faith shall save him that is sick, and the Lord shall raise him up; and if he 
have committed sins, it shall be forgiven him. 5:16Confess therefore 
your sins one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be healed. The 
supplication of a righteous man availeth much in its working. 5:17Elijah was a man of like passions with 
us, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain; and it rained not on the 
earth for three years and six months. 5:18And he prayed again; and the heaven 
gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. 5:19My brethren, if any 
among you err from the truth, and one convert him; 5:20let him know, that 
he who converteth a sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from 
death, and shall cover a multitude of sins. 

