
The Gospel of John












The Gospel According to John 

1:1In the beginning was the Word, and the 
Word was with God, and the Word was God. 1:2The same was in the beginning with God. 
1:3All things were made through him. 
Without him was not anything made that has been made. 1:4In him was life, and 
the life was the light of men. 1:5The light shines in the darkness, and 
the darkness hasn't overcome it. 1:6There came a man, sent from God, whose 
name was John. 1:7The same came as a witness, that he 
might testify about the light, that all might believe through him. 1:8He 
was not the light, but was sent that he might testify about the light. 1:9The 
true light that enlightens everyone was coming into the world. 
1:10He was in the world, and the world was 
made through him, and the world didn't recognize him. 1:11He came to his own, 
and those who were his own didn't receive him. 1:12But as many as 
received him, to them he gave the right to become God's children, to those who 
believe in his name: 1:13who were born not of blood, nor of the 
will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. 1:14The Word became 
flesh, and lived among us. We saw his glory, such glory as of the one and only 
Son of the Father, full of grace and truth. 1:15John testified 
about him. He cried out, saying, "This was he of whom I said, 'He who comes 
after me has surpassed me, for he was before me.'" 1:16From his fullness 
we all received grace upon grace. 1:17For the law was given through Moses. 
Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. 1:18No one has seen God 
at any time. The one and only Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he has 
declared him. 1:19This is John's testimony, when the Jews 
sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, "Who are you?" 
1:20He confessed, and didn't deny, but he 
confessed, "I am not the Christ." 
1:21They asked him, "What then? Are you 
Elijah?" 
He said, "I am not." 
"Are you the Prophet?" 
He answered, "No." 
1:22They said therefore to him, "Who are 
you? Give us an answer to take back to those who sent us. What do you say about 
yourself?" 
1:23He said, "I am the voice of one crying 
in the wilderness, 'Make straight the way of the Lord,' as Isaiah the prophet 
said." 
1:24The ones who had been sent were from 
the Pharisees. 1:25They asked him, "Why then do you 
baptize, if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the Prophet?" 
1:26John answered them, "I baptize in 
water, but among you stands one whom you don't know. 1:27He is the one who 
comes after me, who is preferred before me, whose sandal strap I'm not worthy to 
loosen." 1:28These things were done in Bethany 
beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing. 
1:29The next day, he saw Jesus coming to 
him, and said, "Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world! 1:30This is he of whom I said, 'After me 
comes a man who is preferred before me, for he was before me.' 1:31I 
didn't know him, but for this reason I came baptizing in water: that he would be 
revealed to Israel." 1:32John testified, saying, "I have seen 
the Spirit descending like a dove out of heaven, and it remained on him. 1:33I 
didn't recognize him, but he who sent me to baptize in water, he said to me, 'On 
whomever you will see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is 
he who baptizes in the Holy Spirit.' 1:34I have seen, and have testified that 
this is the Son of God." 
1:35Again, the next day, John was standing 
with two of his disciples, 1:36and he looked at Jesus as he walked, 
and said, "Behold, the Lamb of God!" 1:37The two disciples heard him speak, and 
they followed Jesus. 1:38Jesus turned, and saw them following, 
and said to them, "What are you looking for?"
They said to him, "Rabbi" (which is to say, being interpreted, Teacher), 
"where are you staying?" 
1:39He said to them, "Come, and see."
They came and saw where he was staying, and they stayed with him that day. It 
was about the tenth 
hour. 1:40One of the two who heard John, and 
followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. 1:41He first found his 
own brother, Simon, and said to him, "We have found the Messiah!" (which is, 
being interpreted, Christ). 1:42He 
brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him, and said, "You 
are Simon the son of Jonah. You shall be called Cephas" (which is by 
interpretation, Peter). 1:43On the next day, he was determined to 
go out into Galilee, and he found Philip. Jesus said to him, "Follow me." 1:44Now Philip was from Bethsaida, of the 
city of Andrew and Peter. 1:45Philip found Nathanael, and said to 
him, "We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, wrote: 
Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph." 
1:46Nathanael said to him, "Can any good 
thing come out of Nazareth?" 
Philip said to him, "Come and see." 
1:47Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and 
said about him, "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no 
deceit!"
1:48Nathanael said to him, "How do you know 
me?" 
Jesus answered him, "Before Philip called you, when you 
were under the fig tree, I saw you."
1:49Nathanael answered him, "Rabbi, you are 
the Son of God! You are King of Israel!" 
1:50Jesus answered him, "Because I told you, 'I saw you underneath the fig tree,' do you 
believe? You will see greater things than these!" 1:51He said to him, 
"Most assuredly, I tell you, hereafter you will see heaven 
opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of 
Man."
2:1The third day, there was a marriage in 
Cana of Galilee. Jesus' mother was there. 2:2Jesus also was invited, with his 
disciples, to the marriage. 2:3When the wine ran out, Jesus' mother 
said to him, "They have no wine." 
2:4Jesus said to her, "Woman, what does that have to do with you and me? My hour has not 
yet come."
2:5His mother said to the servants, 
"Whatever he says to you, do it." 2:6Now there were six water pots of stone 
set there after the Jews' manner of purifying, containing two or three metretes 
apiece. 2:7Jesus said to them, "Fill the water pots with water." They filled them up to 
the brim. 2:8He said to them, "Now draw some out, and take it to the ruler of the feast." 
So they took it. 2:9When the ruler of the feast tasted the 
water now become wine, and didn't know where it came from (but the servants who 
had drawn the water knew), the ruler of the feast called the bridegroom, 2:10and said to him, "Everyone serves the 
good wine first, and when the guests have drunk freely, then that which is 
worse. You have kept the good wine until now!" 2:11This beginning of 
his signs Jesus did in Cana of Galilee, and revealed his glory; and his 
disciples believed in him. 
2:12After this, he went down to Capernaum, 
he, and his mother, his brothers, and his disciples; and they stayed there a few 
days. 2:13The Passover of the Jews was at hand, 
and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 2:14He found in the temple those who sold 
oxen, sheep, and doves, and the changers of money sitting. 2:15He made a whip of 
cords, and threw all out of the temple, both the sheep and the oxen; and he 
poured out the changers' money, and overthrew their tables. 2:16To those who sold 
the doves, he said, "Take these things out of here! Don't 
make my Father's house a marketplace!" 2:17His disciples 
remembered that it was written, "Zeal for your house will eat me up." 
2:18The Jews therefore answered him, "What 
sign do you show us, seeing that you do these things?" 
2:19Jesus answered them, "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it 
up."
2:20The Jews therefore said, "Forty-six 
years was this temple in building, and will you raise it up in three days?" 2:21But he spoke of the temple of his body. 
2:22When therefore he was raised from the 
dead, his disciples remembered that he said this, and they believed the 
Scripture, and the word which Jesus had said. 
2:23Now when he was in Jerusalem at the 
Passover, during the feast, many believed in his name, observing his signs which 
he did. 2:24But Jesus didn't trust himself to them, 
because he knew everyone, 2:25and because he didn't need for anyone 
to testify concerning man; for he himself knew what was in man. 
3:1Now there was a man of the Pharisees 
named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. 3:2The same came to him by night, and said 
to him, "Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do 
these signs that you do, unless God is with him." 
3:3Jesus answered him, "Most assuredly, I tell you, unless one is born anew, he can't see the 
Kingdom of God."
3:4Nicodemus said to him, "How can a man be 
born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb, and be 
born?" 
3:5Jesus answered, "Most assuredly I tell you, unless one is born of water and 
spirit, he can't enter into the Kingdom of God! 3:6That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of 
the Spirit is spirit. 3:7Don't marvel that I 
said to you, 'You must be born anew.' 3:8The wind 
blows where it wants to, and you hear its sound, but don't know where it comes 
from and where it is going. So is everyone who is born of the Spirit."
3:9Nicodemus answered him, "How can these 
things be?" 
3:10Jesus answered him, "Are you the teacher of Israel, and don't understand these things? 
3:11Most assuredly I 
tell you, we speak that which we know, and testify of that which we have seen, 
and you don't receive our witness. 3:12If I told you earthly things and you don't believe, how will you 
believe if I tell you heavenly things? 3:13No one has ascended into heaven, but he who descended out of 
heaven, the Son of Man, who is in heaven. 3:14As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the 
Son of Man be lifted up, 3:15that whoever 
believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. 3:16For God so loved 
the world, that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him 
should not perish, but have eternal life. 3:17For God didn't send his Son into the world to judge the world, but 
that the world should be saved through him. 3:18He who believes in him is not judged. He who doesn't believe has 
been judged already, because he has not believed in the name of the one and only 
Son of God. 3:19This is the 
judgment, that the light has come into the world, and men loved the darkness 
rather than the light; for their works were evil. 3:20For everyone who does evil hates the light, and doesn't come to 
the light, lest his works would be exposed. 3:21But he who does the truth comes to the light, that his works may 
be revealed, that they have been done in God."
3:22After these things, Jesus came with his 
disciples into the land of Judea. He stayed there with them, and baptized. 3:23John also was baptizing in Enon near 
Salim, because there was much water there. They came, and were baptized. 3:24For John was not yet thrown into 
prison. 3:25There arose therefore a questioning on 
the part of John's disciples with some Jews about purification. 3:26They came to John, and said to him, 
"Rabbi, he who was with you beyond the Jordan, to whom you have testified, 
behold, the same baptizes, and everyone is coming to him." 
3:27John answered, "A man can receive 
nothing, unless it has been given him from heaven. 3:28You yourselves 
testify that I said, 'I am not the Christ,' but, 'I have been sent before him.' 
3:29He who has the bride is the bridegroom; 
but the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly 
because of the bridegroom's voice. This, my joy, therefore is made full. 3:30He 
must increase, but I must decrease. 3:31He who comes from above is above all. 
He who is from the Earth belongs to the Earth, and speaks of the Earth. He who 
comes from heaven is above all. 3:32What he has seen and heard, of that he 
testifies; and no one receives his witness. 3:33He who has received 
his witness has set his seal to this, that God is true. 3:34For he whom God has 
sent speaks the words of God; for God gives the Spirit without measure. 3:35The Father loves the Son, and has given 
all things into his hand. 3:36One who believes in the Son has eternal 
life, but one who disobeys the Son won't 
see life, but the wrath of God remains on him." 
4:1Therefore when the Lord knew that the 
Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John 
4:2(although Jesus himself didn't baptize, 
but his disciples), 4:3he left Judea, and departed into 
Galilee. 4:4He needed to pass through Samaria. 4:5So 
he came to a city of Samaria, called Sychar, near the parcel of ground that 
Jacob gave to his son, Joseph. 4:6Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, 
being tired from his journey, sat down by the well. It was about the sixth hour. 4:7A 
woman of Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, "Give me a drink." 4:8For his disciples had gone away into the 
city to buy food. 
4:9The Samaritan woman therefore said to 
him, "How is it that you, being a Jew, ask for a drink from me, a Samaritan 
woman?" (For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.) 
4:10Jesus answered her, "If you knew the gift of God, and who it is who says to you, 'Give 
me a drink,' you would have asked him, and he would have given you living 
water."
4:11The woman said to him, "Sir, you have 
nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. From where then have you that living 
water? 4:12Are you greater than our father, Jacob, 
who gave us the well, and drank of it himself, as did his children, and his 
cattle?" 
4:13Jesus answered her, "Everyone who drinks of this water will thirst again, 4:14but whoever drinks 
of the water that I will give him will never thirst again; but the water that I 
will give him will become in him a well of water springing up to eternal 
life."
4:15The woman said to him, "Sir, give me 
this water, so that I don't get thirsty, neither come all the way here to draw." 

4:16Jesus said to her, "Go, call your husband, and come here."
4:17The woman answered, "I have no 
husband." 
Jesus said to her, "You said well, 'I have no husband,' 
4:18for you have had 
five husbands; and he whom you now have is not your husband. This you have said 
truly."
4:19The woman said to him, "Sir, I perceive 
that you are a prophet. 4:20Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, 
and you Jews say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship." 
4:21Jesus said to her, "Woman, believe me, the hour comes, when neither in this mountain, 
nor in Jerusalem, will you worship the Father. 4:22You worship that which you don't know. We worship that which we 
know; for salvation is from the Jews. 4:23But the hour comes, and now is, when the true worshippers will 
worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father seeks such to be his 
worshippers. 4:24God is spirit, and 
those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth."
4:25The woman said to him, "I know that 
Messiah comes," (he who is called Christ). "When he has come, he will declare to 
us all things." 
4:26Jesus said to her, "I am he, the one who speaks to you." 4:27At this, his 
disciples came. They marveled that he was speaking with a woman; yet no one 
said, "What are you looking for?" or, "Why do you speak with her?" 4:28So 
the woman left her water pot, and went away into the city, and said to the 
people, 4:29"Come, see a man who told me everything 
that I did. Can this be the Christ?" 
4:30They went out of the city, and were 
coming to him. 4:31In the meanwhile, the disciples urged 
him, saying, "Rabbi, eat." 
4:32But he said to them, "I have food to eat that you don't know about."
4:33The disciples therefore said one to 
another, "Has anyone brought him something to eat?" 
4:34Jesus said to them, "My food is to do the will of him who sent me, and to accomplish 
his work. 4:35Don't you say, 
'There are yet four months until the harvest?' Behold, I tell you, lift up your 
eyes, and look at the fields, that they are white for harvest already. 4:36He who reaps 
receives wages, and gathers fruit to eternal life; that both he who sows and he 
who reaps may rejoice together. 4:37For in this the 
saying is true, 'One sows, and another reaps.' 4:38I sent you to reap that for which you haven't labored. Others have 
labored, and you have entered into their labor."
4:39From that city many of the Samaritans 
believed in him because of the word of the woman, who testified, "He told me 
everything that I did." 4:40So when the Samaritans came to him, 
they begged him to stay with them. He stayed there two days. 4:41Many more believed 
because of his word. 4:42They said to the woman, "Now we 
believe, not because of your speaking; for we have heard for ourselves, and know 
that this is indeed the Christ, the Savior of the world." 
4:43After the two days he went out from 
there and went into Galilee. 4:44For Jesus himself testified that a 
prophet has no honor in his own country. 4:45So when he came into Galilee, the 
Galileans received him, having seen all the things that he did in Jerusalem at 
the feast, for they also went to the feast. 4:46Jesus came 
therefore again to Cana of Galilee, where he made the water into wine. There was 
a certain nobleman whose son was sick at Capernaum. 4:47When he heard that 
Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to him, and begged him that he 
would come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death. 4:48Jesus therefore said to him, "Unless you see signs and wonders, you will in no way 
believe."
4:49The nobleman said to him, "Sir, come 
down before my child dies." 4:50Jesus said to him, "Go your way. Your son lives." The man believed the word 
that Jesus spoke to him, and he went his way. 4:51As he was now going 
down, his servants met him and reported, saying "Your child lives!" 4:52So 
he inquired of them the hour when he began to get better. They said therefore to 
him, "Yesterday at the seventh hour, the fever 
left him." 4:53So the father knew that it was at that 
hour in which Jesus said to him, "Your son lives." He 
believed, as did his whole house. 4:54This is again the second sign that 
Jesus did, having come out of Judea into Galilee. 
5:1After these things, there was a feast of 
the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 5:2Now in Jerusalem by the sheep gate, 
there is a pool, which is called in Hebrew, "Bethesda," having five porches. 5:3In 
these lay a great multitude of those who were sick, blind, lame, or paralyzed, 
waiting for the moving of the water; 5:4for an angel of the Lord went down at 
certain times into the pool, and stirred up the water. Whoever stepped in first 
after the stirring of the water was made whole of whatever disease he had. 5:5A 
certain man was there, who had been sick for thirty-eight years. 5:6When 
Jesus saw him lying there, and knew that he had been sick for a long time, he 
asked him, "Do you want to be made well?"
5:7The sick man answered him, "Sir, I have 
no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, but while I'm 
coming, another steps down before me." 
5:8Jesus said to him, "Arise, take up your mat, and walk."
5:9Immediately, the man was made well, and 
took up his mat and walked. 
Now it was the Sabbath on that day. 5:10So the Jews said to him who was cured, 
"It is the Sabbath. It is not lawful for you to carry the mat." 
5:11He answered them, "He who made me well, 
the same said to me, 'Take up your mat, and walk.'" 
5:12Then they asked him, "Who is the man 
who said to you, 'Take up your mat, and walk'?" 
5:13But he who was healed didn't know who 
it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, a crowd being in the place. 
5:14Afterward Jesus found him in the 
temple, and said to him, "Behold, you are made well. Sin no 
more, so that nothing worse happens to you."
5:15The man went away, and told the Jews 
that it was Jesus who had made him well. 5:16For this cause the Jews persecuted 
Jesus, and sought to kill him, because he did these things on the Sabbath. 5:17But Jesus answered them, "My Father is still working, so I am working, too." 5:18For this cause therefore the Jews 
sought all the more to kill him, because he not only broke the Sabbath, but also 
called God his own Father, making himself equal with God. 5:19Jesus therefore 
answered them, "Most assuredly, I tell you, the Son can do 
nothing of himself, but what he sees the Father doing. For whatever things he 
does, these the Son also does likewise. 5:20For the Father has affection for the Son, and shows him all things 
that he himself does. He will show him greater works than these, that you may 
marvel. 5:21For as the Father 
raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son also gives life to whom he 
desires. 5:22For the Father 
judges no one, but he has given all judgment to the Son, 5:23that all may honor 
the Son, even as they honor the Father. He who doesn't honor the Son doesn't 
honor the Father who sent him. 
5:24"Most assuredly I 
tell you, he who hears my word, and believes him who sent me, has eternal life, 
and doesn't come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life. 5:25Most assuredly, I 
tell you, the hour comes, and now is, when the dead will hear the Son of God's 
voice; and those who hear will live. 5:26For as the Father has life in himself, even so he gave to the Son 
also to have life in himself. 5:27He also gave him 
authority to execute judgment, because he is a son of man. 5:28Don't marvel at 
this, for the hour comes, in which all that are in the tombs will hear his 
voice, 5:29and will come out; 
those who have done good, to the resurrection of life; and those who have done 
evil, to the resurrection of judgment. 5:30I can of myself do nothing. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is 
righteous; because I don't seek my own will, but the will of my Father who sent 
me. 
5:31"If I testify about 
myself, my witness is not valid. 5:32It is another who 
testifies about me. I know that the testimony which he testifies about me is 
true. 5:33You have sent to 
John, and he has testified to the truth. 5:34But the testimony which I receive is not from man. However, I say 
these things that you may be saved. 5:35He was the burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to 
rejoice for a while in his light. 5:36But the testimony 
which I have is greater than that of John, for the works which the Father gave 
me to accomplish, the very works that I do, testify about me, that the Father 
has sent me. 5:37The Father himself, 
who sent me, has testified about me. You have neither heard his voice at any 
time, nor seen his form. 5:38You don't have his 
word living in you; because you don't believe him whom he sent. 
5:39"You search the 
Scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal life; and these are 
they which testify about me. 5:40Yet you will not 
come to me, that you may have life. 5:41I don't receive glory from men. 5:42But I know you, that you don't have God's love in yourselves. 
5:43I have come in my 
Father's name, and you don't receive me. If another comes in his own name, you 
will receive him. 5:44How can you 
believe, who receive glory from one another, and you don't seek the glory that 
comes from the only God? 
5:45"Don't think that I 
will accuse you to the Father. There is one who accuses you, even Moses, on whom 
you have set your hope. 5:46For if you believed 
Moses, you would believe me; for he wrote about me. 5:47But if you don't believe his writings, how will you believe my 
words?"
6:1After these things, Jesus went away to 
the other side of the sea of Galilee, which is also called the Sea of Tiberias. 
6:2A 
great multitude followed him, because they saw his signs which he did on those 
who were sick. 6:3Jesus went up into the mountain, and he 
sat there with his disciples. 6:4Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, 
was at hand. 6:5Jesus therefore lifting up his eyes, and 
seeing that a great multitude was coming to him, said to Philip, "Where are we to buy bread, that these may eat?" 6:6This 
he said to test him, for he himself knew what he would do. 
6:7Philip answered him, "Two hundred 
denarii worth of bread is not sufficient for them, that everyone of them may 
receive a little." 
6:8One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon 
Peter's brother, said to him, 6:9"There is a boy here who has five barley 
loaves and two fish, but what are these among so many?" 
6:10Jesus said, "Have 
the people sit down." Now there was much grass in that place. So the men 
sat down, in number about five thousand. 6:11Jesus took the loaves; and having given 
thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to those who were 
sitting down; likewise also of the fish as much as they desired. 6:12When they were filled, he said to his 
disciples, "Gather up the broken pieces which are left over, 
that nothing be lost." 6:13So they gathered them up, and filled 
twelve baskets with broken pieces from the five barley loaves, which were left 
over by those who had eaten. 6:14When therefore the people saw the sign 
which Jesus did, they said, "This is truly the prophet who comes into the 
world." 6:15Jesus therefore, perceiving that they 
were about to come and take him by force, to make him king, withdrew again to 
the mountain by himself. 
6:16When evening came, his disciples went 
down to the sea, 6:17and they entered into the boat, and 
were going over the sea to Capernaum. It was now dark, and Jesus had not come to 
them. 6:18The sea was tossed by a great wind 
blowing. 6:19When therefore they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty 
stadia, they saw Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing near to the boat; and 
they were afraid. 6:20But he said to them, "I AM. Don't be afraid." 6:21They were willing 
therefore to receive him into the boat. Immediately the boat was at the land 
where they were going. 
6:22On the next day, the multitude that 
stood on the other side of the sea saw that there was no other boat there, 
except the one in which his disciples had embarked, and that Jesus hadn't 
entered with his disciples into the boat, but his disciples had gone away alone. 
6:23However boats from Tiberias came near 
to the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks. 6:24When the multitude therefore saw that 
Jesus wasn't there, nor his disciples, they themselves got into the boats, and 
came to Capernaum, seeking Jesus. 6:25When they found him on the other side 
of the sea, they asked him, "Rabbi, when did you come here?" 
6:26Jesus answered them, "Most assuredly I tell you, you seek me, not because you saw 
signs, but because you ate of the loaves, and were filled. 6:27Don't work for the 
food which perishes, but for the food which remains to eternal life, which the 
Son of Man will give to you. For God the Father has sealed him."
6:28They said therefore to him, "What must 
we do, that we may work the works of God?" 
6:29Jesus answered them, "This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has 
sent."
6:30They said therefore to him, "What then 
do you do for a sign, that we may see, and believe you? What work do you do? 6:31Our fathers ate the manna in the 
wilderness. As it is written, 'He gave them bread out of heaven to eat.'" 
6:32Jesus therefore said to them, "Most assuredly, I tell you, it wasn't Moses who gave you the 
bread out of heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread out of heaven. 
6:33For the bread of 
God is that which comes down out of heaven, and gives life to the world."
6:34They said therefore to him, "Lord, 
always give us this bread." 
6:35Jesus said to them, "I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will not be hungry, 
and he who believes in me will never be thirsty. 6:36But I told you that you have seen me, and yet you don't believe. 
6:37All those who the 
Father gives me will come to me. Him who comes to me I will in no way throw out. 
6:38For I have come 
down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. 
6:39This is the will of 
my Father who sent me, that of all he has given to me I should lose nothing, but 
should raise him up at the last day. 6:40This is the will of the one who sent me, that everyone who sees 
the Son, and believes in him, should have eternal life; and I will raise him up 
at the last day."
6:41The Jews therefore murmured concerning 
him, because he said, "I am the bread which came down out of 
heaven." 6:42They said, "Isn't this Jesus, the son 
of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How then does he say, 'I have come down out of heaven?'"
6:43Therefore Jesus answered them, "Don't murmur among yourselves. 6:44No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and 
I will raise him up in the last day. 6:45It is written in the prophets, 'They will all be taught by God.' 
Therefore everyone who hears from the Father, and has learned, comes to me. 
6:46Not that anyone has 
seen the Father, except he who is from God. He has seen the Father. 6:47Most assuredly, I 
tell you, he who believes in me has eternal life. 6:48I am the bread of life. 6:49Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died. 
6:50This is the bread 
which comes down out of heaven, that anyone may eat of it and not die. 6:51I am the living 
bread which came down out of heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live 
forever. Yes, the bread which I will give for the life of the world is my 
flesh."
6:52The Jews therefore contended with one 
another, saying, "How can this man give us his flesh to eat?" 
6:53Jesus therefore said to them, "Most assuredly I tell you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of 
Man and drink his blood, you don't have life in yourselves. 6:54He who eats my 
flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last 
day. 6:55For my flesh is 
food indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. 6:56He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood lives in me, and I in 
him. 6:57As the living 
Father sent me, and I live because of the Father; so he who feeds on me, he will 
also live because of me. 6:58This is the bread 
which came down out of heaven-- not as our fathers ate the manna, and died. He 
who eats this bread will live forever." 6:59These things he 
said in the synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum. 
6:60Therefore many of his disciples, when 
they heard this, said, "This is a hard saying! Who can listen to it?" 
6:61But Jesus knowing in himself that his 
disciples murmured at this, said to them, "Does this cause 
you to stumble? 6:62Then what if you 
would see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? 6:63It is the spirit 
who gives life. The flesh profits nothing. The words that I speak to you are 
spirit, and are life. 6:64But there are some 
of you who don't believe." For Jesus knew from the beginning who they 
were who didn't believe, and who it was who would betray him. 6:65He 
said, "For this cause have I said to you that no one can 
come to me, unless it is given to him by my Father."
6:66At this, many of his disciples went 
back, and walked no more with him. 6:67Jesus said therefore to the twelve, 
"You don't also want to go away, do you?"
6:68Simon Peter answered him, "Lord, to 
whom would we go? You have the words of eternal life. 6:69We have come to 
believe and know that you are the Christ, the Son of the living God." 
6:70Jesus answered them, "Didn't I choose you, the twelve, and one of you is a 
devil?" 6:71Now he spoke of Judas, the son of Simon 
Iscariot, for it was he who would betray him, being one of the twelve. 
7:1After these things, Jesus was walking in 
Galilee, for he wouldn't walk in Judea, because the Jews sought to kill him. 7:2Now 
the feast of the Jews, the Feast of Booths, was at hand. 7:3His brothers 
therefore said to him, "Depart from here, and go into Judea, that your disciples 
also may see your works which you do. 7:4For no one does anything in secret, and 
himself seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, reveal yourself to the 
world." 7:5For even his brothers didn't believe in 
him. 
7:6Jesus therefore said to them, "My time has not yet come, but your time is always ready. 
7:7The world can't hate 
you, but it hates me, because I testify about it, that its works are evil. 
7:8You go up to the 
feast. I am not yet going up to this feast, because my time is not yet 
fulfilled."
7:9Having said these things to them, he 
stayed in Galilee. 7:10But when his brothers had gone up to 
the feast, then he also went up, not publicly, but as it were in secret. 7:11The Jews therefore sought him at the 
feast, and said, "Where is he?" 7:12There was much murmuring among the 
multitudes concerning him. Some said, "He is a good man." Others said, "Not so, 
but he leads the multitude astray." 7:13Yet no one spoke openly of him for fear 
of the Jews. 7:14But when it was now the midst of the 
feast, Jesus went up into the temple and taught. 7:15The Jews therefore 
marveled, saying, "How does this man know letters, having never been educated?" 
7:16Jesus therefore answered them, "My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. 7:17If anyone desires 
to do his will, he will know about the teaching, whether it is from God, or if I 
am speaking from myself. 7:18He who speaks from 
himself seeks his own glory, but he who seeks the glory of him who sent him, the 
same is true, and no unrighteousness is in him. 7:19Didn't Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keeps the law? 
Why do you seek to kill me?"
7:20The multitude answered, "You have a 
demon! Who seeks to kill you?" 
7:21Jesus answered them, "I did one work, and you all marvel because of it. 7:22Moses has given you 
circumcision (not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers), and on the Sabbath 
you circumcise a boy. 7:23If a boy receives 
circumcision on the Sabbath, that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you 
angry with me, because I made a man every bit whole on the Sabbath? 7:24Don't judge 
according to appearance, but judge righteous judgment."
7:25Therefore some of them of Jerusalem 
said, "Isn't this he whom they seek to kill? 7:26Behold, he speaks 
openly, and they say nothing to him. Can it be that the rulers indeed know that 
this is truly the Christ? 7:27However we know where this man comes 
from, but when the Christ comes, no one will know where he comes from." 
7:28Jesus therefore cried out in the 
temple, teaching and saying, "You both know me, and know 
where I am from. I have not come of myself, but he who sent me is true, whom you 
don't know. 7:29I know him, because 
I am from him, and he sent me."
7:30They sought therefore to take him; but 
no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not yet come. 7:31But of the multitude, many believed in 
him. They said, "When the Christ comes, he won't do more signs than those which 
this man has done, will he?" 7:32The Pharisees heard the multitude 
murmuring these things concerning him, and the chief priests and the Pharisees 
sent officers to arrest him. 
7:33Then Jesus said, "I 
will be with you a little while longer, then I go to him who sent me. 7:34You will seek me, 
and won't find me; and where I am, you can't come."
7:35The Jews therefore said among 
themselves, "Where will this man go that we won't find him? Will he go to the 
Dispersion among the Greeks, and teach the Greeks? 7:36What is this word 
that he said, 'You will seek me, and won't find me; and 
where I am, you can't come?'" 
7:37Now on the last and greatest day of the 
feast, Jesus stood and cried out, "If anyone is thirsty, let 
him come to me and drink! 7:38He who believes in 
me, as the Scripture has said, from within him will flow rivers of living 
water." 7:39But he said this about the Spirit, 
which those believing in him were to receive. For the Holy Spirit was not yet 
given, because Jesus wasn't yet glorified. 
7:40Many of the multitude therefore, when 
they heard these words, said, "This is truly the prophet." 7:41Others said, "This 
is the Christ." But some said, "What, does the Christ come out of Galilee? 7:42Hasn't the Scripture said that the 
Christ comes of the seed of David, and from Bethlehem, the village where David 
was?" 7:43So there arose a division in the 
multitude because of him. 7:44Some of them would have arrested him, 
but no one laid hands on him. 7:45The officers therefore came to the 
chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them, "Why didn't you bring him?" 
7:46The officers answered, "No man ever 
spoke like this man!" 
7:47The Pharisees therefore answered them, 
"You aren't also led astray, are you? 7:48Have any of the rulers believed in him, 
or of the Pharisees? 7:49But this multitude that doesn't know 
the law is accursed." 
7:50Nicodemus (he who came to him by night, 
being one of them) said to them, 7:51"Does our law judge a man, unless it 
first hears from him personally and knows what he does?" 
7:52They answered him, "Are you also from 
Galilee? Search, and see that no prophet has arisen out of Galilee." 
7:53Everyone went to his own house, 8:1but 
Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. 8:2Now very early in the morning, he came 
again into the temple, and all the people came to him. He sat down, and taught 
them. 8:3The scribes and the Pharisees brought a 
woman taken in adultery. Having set her in the midst, 8:4they told him, 
"Teacher, we found this woman in adultery, in the very act. 8:5Now in our law, 
Moses commanded us to stone such. What then do you say about her?" 8:6They 
said this testing him, that they might have something to accuse him of. 
But Jesus stooped down, and wrote on the ground with his finger. 8:7But 
when they continued asking him, he looked up and said to them, "He who is without sin among you, let him throw the first stone at 
her." 8:8Again he stooped down, and with his 
finger wrote on the ground. 
8:9They, when they heard it, being 
convicted by their conscience, went out one by one, beginning from the oldest, 
even to the last. Jesus was left alone with the woman where she was, in the 
middle. 8:10Jesus, standing up, saw her and said, 
"Woman, where are your accusers? Did no one condemn 
you?"
8:11She said, "No one, Lord." 
Jesus said, "Neither do I condemn you. Go your way. From 
now on, sin no more."
8:12Again, therefore, Jesus spoke to them, 
saying, "I am the light of the world. He who follows me will 
not walk in the darkness, but will have the light of life."
8:13The Pharisees therefore said to him, 
"You testify about yourself. Your testimony is not valid." 
8:14Jesus answered them, "Even if I testify about myself, my testimony is true, for I know 
where I came from, and where I am going; but you don't know where I came from, 
or where I am going. 8:15You judge according 
to the flesh. I judge no one. 8:16Even if I do judge, 
my judgment is true, for I am not alone, but I am with the Father who sent me. 
8:17It's also written 
in your law that the testimony of two people is valid. 8:18I am one who 
testifies about myself, and the Father who sent me testifies about me."
8:19They said therefore to him, "Where is 
your Father?" 
Jesus answered, "You know neither me, nor my Father. If 
you knew me, you would know my Father also." 8:20Jesus spoke these 
words in the treasury, as he taught in the temple. Yet no one arrested him, 
because his hour had not yet come. 8:21Jesus said therefore again to them, 
"I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in 
your sins. Where I go, you can't come."
8:22The Jews therefore said, "Will he kill 
himself, that he says, 'Where I am going, you can't 
come?'" 
8:23He said to them, "You are from beneath. I am from above. You are of this world. I 
am not of this world. 8:24I said therefore to 
you that you will die in your sins; for unless you believe that I am he, you 
will die in your sins."
8:25They said therefore to him, "Who are 
you?" 
Jesus said to them, "Just what I have been saying to you 
from the beginning. 8:26I have many things 
to speak and to judge concerning you. However he who sent me is true; and the 
things which I heard from him, these I say to the world."
8:27They didn't understand that he spoke to 
them about the Father. 8:28Jesus therefore said to them, "When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I 
am he, and I do nothing of myself, but as my Father taught me, I say these 
things. 8:29He who sent me is 
with me. The Father hasn't left me alone, for I always do the things that are 
pleasing to him."
8:30As he spoke these things, many believed 
in him. 8:31Jesus therefore said to those Jews who 
had believed him, "If you remain in my word, then you are 
truly my disciples. 8:32You will know the 
truth, and the truth will make you free."
8:33They answered him, "We are Abraham's 
seed, and have never been in bondage to anyone. How do you say, 'You will be made free?'" 
8:34Jesus answered them, "Most assuredly I tell you, everyone who commits sin is the 
bondservant of sin. 8:35A bondservant 
doesn't live in the house forever. A son remains forever. 8:36If therefore the 
Son makes you free, you will be free indeed. 8:37I know that you are Abraham's seed, yet you seek to kill me, 
because my word finds no place in you. 8:38I say the things which I have seen with my Father; and you also do 
the things which you have seen with your father."
8:39They answered him, "Our father is 
Abraham." 
Jesus said to them, "If you were Abraham's children, you 
would do the works of Abraham. 8:40But now you seek to 
kill me, a man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God. Abraham 
didn't do this. 8:41You do the works of 
your father."
They said to him, "We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father, 
God." 
8:42Therefore Jesus said to them, "If God were your Father, you would love me, for I came out and 
have come from God. For I haven't come of myself, but he sent me. 8:43Why don't you 
understand my speech? Because you can't hear my word. 8:44You are of your Father, the devil, and you want to do the desires 
of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning, and doesn't stand in the 
truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks on his 
own; for he is a liar, and the father of it. 8:45But because I tell the truth, you don't believe me. 8:46Which of you 
convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? 8:47He who is of God 
hears the words of God. For this cause you don't hear, because you are not of 
God."
8:48Then the Jews answered him, "Don't we 
say well that you are a Samaritan, and have a demon?" 
8:49Jesus answered, "I 
don't have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me. 8:50But I don't seek my 
own glory. There is one who seeks and judges. 8:51Most assuredly, I tell you, if a person keeps my word, he will 
never see death."
8:52Then the Jews said to him, "Now we know 
that you have a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets; and you say, 'If a man keeps my word, he will never taste of death.' 8:53Are you greater than our father, 
Abraham, who died? The prophets died. Who do you make yourself out to be?" 
8:54Jesus answered, "If 
I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom 
you say that he is our God. 8:55You have not known 
him, but I know him. If I said, 'I don't know him,' I would be like you, a liar. 
But I know him, and keep his word. 8:56Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day. He saw it, and was 
glad."
8:57The Jews therefore said to him, "You 
are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham?" 
8:58Jesus said to them, "Most assuredly, I tell you, before Abraham came into existence, I 
AM."
8:59Therefore they took up stones to throw 
at him, but Jesus was hidden, and went out of the temple, having gone through 
the midst of them, and so passed by. 
9:1As he passed by, he saw a man blind from 
birth. 9:2His disciples asked him, "Rabbi, who 
sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?" 
9:3Jesus answered, "Neither did this man sin, nor his parents; but, that the works of 
God might be revealed in him. 9:4I must work the 
works of him who sent me, while it is day. The night is coming, when no one can 
work. 9:5While I am in the 
world, I am the light of the world." 9:6When he had said 
this, he spat on the ground, made mud with the saliva, anointed the blind man's 
eyes with the mud, 9:7and said to him, "Go, wash in the pool of Siloam" (which means "Sent"). So 
he went away, washed, and came back seeing. 9:8The neighbors 
therefore, and those who saw that he was blind before, said, "Isn't this he who 
sat and begged?" 9:9Others were saying, "It is he." Still 
others were saying, "He looks like him." 
He said, "I am he." 9:10They therefore were asking him, "How 
were your eyes opened?" 
9:11He answered, "A man called Jesus made 
mud, anointed my eyes, and said to me, 'Go to the pool of 
Siloam, and wash.' So I went away and washed, and I received sight." 
9:12Then they asked him, "Where is he?" 
He said, "I don't know." 
9:13They brought him who had been blind to 
the Pharisees. 9:14It was a Sabbath when Jesus made the 
mud and opened his eyes. 9:15Again therefore the Pharisees also 
asked him how he received his sight. He said to them, "He put mud on my eyes, I 
washed, and I see." 
9:16Some therefore of the Pharisees said, 
"This man is not from God, because he doesn't keep the Sabbath." Others said, 
"How can a man who is a sinner do such signs?" There was division among them. 9:17Therefore they asked the blind man 
again, "What do you say about him, because he opened your eyes?" 
He said, "He is a prophet." 
9:18The Jews therefore did not believe 
concerning him, that he had been blind, and had received his sight, until they 
called the parents of him who had received his sight, 9:19and asked them, "Is 
this your son, who you say was born blind? How then does he now see?" 
9:20His parents answered them, "We know 
that this is our son, and that he was born blind; 9:21but how he now 
sees, we don't know; or who opened his eyes, we don't know. He is of age. Ask 
him. He will speak for himself." 9:22His parents said these things because 
they feared the Jews; for the Jews had already agreed that if any man would 
confess him as Christ, he would be put out of the synagogue. 9:23Therefore his 
parents said, "He is of age. Ask him." 
9:24So they called the man who was blind a 
second time, and said to him, "Give glory to God. We know that this man is a 
sinner." 
9:25He therefore answered, "I don't know if 
he is a sinner. One thing I do know: that though I was blind, now I see." 
9:26They said to him again, "What did he do 
to you? How did he open your eyes?" 
9:27He answered them, "I told you already, 
and you didn't listen. Why do you want to hear it again? You don't also want to 
become his disciples, do you?" 
9:28They insulted him and said, "You are 
his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. 9:29We know that God 
has spoken to Moses. But as for this man, we don't know where he comes from." 
9:30The man answered them, "How amazing! 
You don't know where he comes from, yet he opened my eyes. 9:31We know that God 
doesn't listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshipper of God, and does his 
will, he listens to him. 9:32Since the world began it has never been 
heard of that anyone opened the eyes of someone born blind. 9:33If this man were 
not from God, he could do nothing." 
9:34They answered him, "You were altogether 
born in sins, and do you teach us?" They threw him out. 
9:35Jesus heard that they had thrown him 
out, and finding him, he said, "Do you believe in the Son of 
God?"
9:36He answered, "Who is he, Lord, that I 
may believe in him?" 
9:37Jesus said to him, "You have both seen him, and it is he who speaks with you."
9:38He said, "Lord, I believe!" and he 
worshiped him. 
9:39Jesus said, "I came 
into this world for judgment, that those who don't see may see; and that those 
who see may become blind."
9:40Those of the Pharisees who were with 
him heard these things, and said to him, "Are we also blind?" 
9:41Jesus said to them, "If you were blind, you would have no sin; but now you say, 'We 
see.' Therefore your sin remains. 
10:1"Most assuredly, I 
tell you, one who doesn't enter by the door into the sheep fold, but climbs up 
some other way, the same is a thief and a robber. 10:2But one who enters in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. 
10:3The gatekeeper 
opens the gate for him, and the sheep listen to his voice. He calls his own 
sheep by name, and leads them out. 10:4Whenever he brings out his own sheep, he goes before them, and the 
sheep follow him, for they know his voice. 10:5They will by no means follow a stranger, but will flee from him; 
for they don't know the voice of strangers." 10:6Jesus spoke this 
parable to them, but they didn't understand what he was telling them. 
10:7Jesus therefore said to them again, 
"Most assuredly, I tell you, I am the sheep's door. 
10:8All who came before 
me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep didn't listen to them. 10:9I am the door. If 
anyone enters in by me, he will be saved, and will go in and go out, and will 
find pasture. 10:10The thief only 
comes to steal, kill, and destroy. I came that they may have life, and may have 
it abundantly. 10:11I am the good 
shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. 10:12He who is a hired 
hand, and not a shepherd, who doesn't own the sheep, sees the wolf coming, 
leaves the sheep, and flees. The wolf snatches the sheep, and scatters them. 
10:13The hired hand 
flees because he is a hired hand, and doesn't care for the sheep. 10:14I am the good 
shepherd. I know my own, and I'm known by my own; 10:15even as the Father knows me, and I know the Father. I lay down my 
life for the sheep. 10:16I have other 
sheep, which are not of this fold. I must bring them also, and they will hear my 
voice. They will become one flock with one shepherd. 10:17Therefore the Father loves me, because I lay down my life, that I 
may take it again. 10:18No one takes it 
away from me, but I lay it down by myself. I have power to lay it down, and I 
have power to take it again. I received this commandment from my Father."
10:19Therefore a division arose again among 
the Jews because of these words. 10:20Many of them said, "He has a demon, 
and is insane! Why do you listen to him?" 10:21Others said, 
"These are not the sayings of one possessed by a demon. It isn't possible for a 
demon to open the eyes of the blind, is it?" 
10:22It was the Feast of the Dedication 
at Jerusalem. 10:23It was winter, and Jesus was walking 
in the temple, in Solomon's porch. 10:24The Jews therefore came around him and 
said to him, "How long will you hold us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell 
us plainly." 
10:25Jesus answered them, "I told you, and you don't believe. The works that I do in my 
Father's name, these testify about me. 10:26But you don't believe, because you are not of my sheep, as I told 
you. 10:27My sheep hear my 
voice, and I know them, and they follow me. 10:28I give eternal life to them. They will never perish, and no one 
will snatch them out of my hand. 10:29My Father, who has 
given them to me, is greater than all. No one is able to snatch them out of my 
Father's hand. 10:30I and the Father 
are one."
10:31Therefore Jews took up stones again to 
stone him. 10:32Jesus answered them, "I have shown you many good works from my Father. For which of 
those works do you stone me?"
10:33The Jews answered him, "We don't stone 
you for a good work, but for blasphemy: because you, being a man, make yourself 
God." 
10:34Jesus answered them, "Isn't it written in your law, 'I said, you are gods?' 10:35If he called them 
gods, to whom the word of God came (and the Scripture can't be broken), 
10:36Do you say of him 
whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, 'You blaspheme,' because I 
said, 'I am the Son of God?' 10:37If I don't do the 
works of my Father, don't believe me. 10:38But if I do them, though you don't believe me, believe the works; 
that you may know and believe that the Father is in me, and I in the 
Father."
10:39They sought again to seize him, and he 
went out of their hand. 10:40He went away again beyond the Jordan 
into the place where John was baptizing at first, and there he stayed. 10:41Many came to him. They said, "John 
indeed did no sign, but everything that John said about this man is true." 10:42Many believed in him there. 
11:1Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus 
from Bethany, of the village of Mary and her sister, Martha. 11:2It was that Mary 
who had anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose 
brother, Lazarus, was sick. 11:3The sisters therefore sent to him, 
saying, "Lord, behold, he for whom you have great affection is sick." 11:4But when Jesus heard it, he said, "This sickness is not to death, but for the glory of God, that 
God's Son may be glorified by it." 11:5Now Jesus loved 
Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus. 11:6When therefore he heard that he was 
sick, he stayed two days in the place where he was. 11:7Then after this he 
said to the disciples, "Let's go into Judea again."
11:8The disciples told him, "Rabbi, the 
Jews were just trying to stone you, and are you going there again?" 
11:9Jesus answered, "Aren't there twelve hours of daylight? If a man walks in the day, 
he doesn't stumble, because he sees the light of this world. 11:10But if a man walks 
in the night, he stumbles, because the light isn't in him." 11:11He said these things, and after that, 
he said to them, "Our friend, Lazarus, has fallen asleep, 
but I am going so that I may awake him out of sleep."
11:12The disciples therefore said, "Lord, 
if he has fallen asleep, he will recover." 
11:13Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but 
they thought that he spoke of taking rest in sleep. 11:14So Jesus said to 
them plainly then, "Lazarus is dead. 11:15I am glad for your 
sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe. Nevertheless, let's go to 
him."
11:16Thomas therefore, who is called Didymus, said to his 
fellow disciples, "Let's go also, that we may die with him." 
11:17So when Jesus came, he found that he 
had been in the tomb four days already. 11:18Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about 
fifteen stadia away. 
11:19Many of the Jews had joined the women 
around Martha and Mary, to console them concerning their brother. 11:20Then when Martha heard that Jesus was 
coming, she went and met him, but Mary stayed in the house. 11:21Therefore Martha 
said to Jesus, "Lord, if you would have been here, my brother wouldn't have 
died. 11:22Even now I know that, whatever you ask 
of God, God will give you." 11:23Jesus said to her, "Your brother will rise again."
11:24Martha said to him, "I know that he 
will rise again in the resurrection at the last day." 
11:25Jesus said to her, "I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though 
he die, yet will he live. 11:26Whoever lives and 
believes in me will never die. Do you believe this?"
11:27She said to him, "Yes, Lord. I have 
come to believe that you are the Christ, God's Son, he who comes into the 
world." 
11:28When she had said this, she went away, 
and called Mary, her sister, secretly, saying, "The Teacher is here, and is 
calling you." 
11:29When she heard this, she arose 
quickly, and went to him. 11:30Now Jesus had not yet come into the 
village, but was in the place where Martha met him. 11:31Then the Jews who 
were with her in the house, and were consoling her, when they saw Mary, that she 
rose up quickly and went out, followed her, saying, "She is going to the tomb to 
weep there." 11:32Therefore when Mary came to where 
Jesus was, and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying to him, "Lord, if you 
would have been here, my brother wouldn't have died." 
11:33When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, 
and the Jews weeping who came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was 
troubled, 11:34and said, "Where 
have you laid him?"
They told him, "Lord, come and see." 
11:35Jesus wept. 
11:36The Jews therefore said, "See how much 
affection he had for him!" 11:37Some of them said, "Couldn't this man, 
who opened the eyes of him who was blind, have also kept this man from dying?" 
11:38Jesus therefore, again groaning in 
himself, came to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone lay against it. 11:39Jesus said, "Take 
away the stone."
Martha, the sister of him who was dead, said to him, "Lord, by this time 
there is a stench, for he has been dead four days." 
11:40Jesus said to her, "Didn't I tell you that if you believed, you would see God's 
glory?"
11:41So they took away the stone from the 
place where the dead man was lying. Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, "Father, I thank you that you listened to me. 11:42I know that you 
always listen to me, but because of the multitude that stands around I said 
this, that they may believe that you sent me." 11:43When he had said 
this, he cried with a loud voice, "Lazarus, come 
out!"
11:44He who was dead came out, bound hand 
and foot with wrappings, and his face was wrapped around with a cloth. 
Jesus said to them, "Free him, and let him go."
11:45Therefore many of the Jews, who came 
to Mary and saw what Jesus did, believed in him. 11:46But some of them 
went away to the Pharisees, and told them the things which Jesus had done. 11:47The chief priests therefore and the 
Pharisees gathered a council, and said, "What are we doing? For this man does 
many signs. 11:48If we leave him alone like this, 
everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our 
place and our nation." 
11:49But a certain one of them, Caiaphas, 
being high priest that year, said to them, "You know nothing at all, 11:50nor do you consider that it is 
advantageous for us that one man should die for the people, and that the whole 
nation not perish." 11:51Now he didn't say this of himself, but 
being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation, 
11:52and not for the nation only, but that 
he might also gather together into one the children of God who are scattered 
abroad. 11:53So from that day forward they took 
counsel that they might put him to death. 11:54Jesus therefore 
walked no more openly among the Jews, but departed from there into the country 
near the wilderness, to a city called Ephraim. He stayed there with his 
disciples. 
11:55Now the Passover of the Jews was at 
hand. Many went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover, to purify 
themselves. 11:56Then they sought for Jesus and spoke 
one with another, as they stood in the temple, "What do you think--that he isn't 
coming to the feast at all?" 11:57Now the chief priests and the 
Pharisees had commanded that if anyone knew where he was, he should report it, 
that they might seize him. 
12:1Then six days before the Passover, 
Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, who had been dead, whom he raised from 
the dead. 12:2So they made him a supper there. Martha 
served, but Lazarus was one of those who sat at the table with him. 12:3Mary, therefore, took a pound of ointment of 
pure nard, very precious, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet 
with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the ointment. 12:4Then Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, one 
of his disciples, who would betray him, said, 12:5"Why wasn't this 
ointment sold for three 
hundred denarii, and given to the poor?" 12:6Now he said this, 
not because he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief, and having the 
money box, used to steal what was put into it. 12:7But Jesus said, 
"Leave her alone. She has kept this for the day of my 
burial. 12:8For you always have 
the poor with you, but you don't always have me."
12:9A large crowd therefore of the Jews 
learned that he was there, and they came, not for Jesus' sake only, but that 
they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead. 12:10But the chief priests conspired to put 
Lazarus to death also, 12:11because on account of him many of the 
Jews went away and believed in Jesus. 
12:12On the next day a great multitude had 
come to the feast. When they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, 12:13they took the branches of the palm 
trees, and went out to meet him, and cried out, "Hosanna! Blessed is he who 
comes in the name of the Lord, the King of Israel!" 
12:14Jesus, having found a young donkey, 
sat on it. As it is written, 12:15"Don't be afraid, daughter of Zion. 
Behold, your King comes, sitting on a donkey's colt." 12:16His disciples 
didn't understand these things at first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they 
remembered that these things were written about him, and that they had done 
these things to him. 12:17The multitude therefore that was with 
him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb, and raised him from the dead, was 
testifying about it. 12:18For this cause also the multitude went 
and met him, because they heard that he had done this sign. 12:19The Pharisees 
therefore said among themselves, "See how you accomplish nothing. Behold, the 
world has gone after him." 
12:20Now there were certain Greeks among 
those that went up to worship at the feast. 12:21These, therefore, 
came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, "Sir, 
we want to see Jesus." 12:22Philip came and told Andrew, and in 
turn, Andrew came with Philip, and they told Jesus. 12:23Jesus answered 
them, "The time has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. 
12:24Most assuredly I 
tell you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains by 
itself alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. 12:25He who loves his life will lose it. He who hates his life in this 
world will keep it to eternal life. 12:26If anyone serves me, let him follow me. Where I am, there will my 
servant also be. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. 
12:27"Now my soul is 
troubled. What shall I say? 'Father, save me from this time?' But for this cause 
I came to this time. 12:28Father, glorify 
your name!"
Then there came a voice out of the sky, saying, "I have both glorified it, 
and will glorify it again." 
12:29The multitude therefore, who stood by 
and heard it, said that it had thundered. Others said, "An angel has spoken to 
him." 
12:30Jesus answered, "This voice hasn't come for my sake, but for your sakes. 12:31Now is the 
judgment of this world. Now the prince of this world will be cast out. 12:32And I, if I am 
lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself." 12:33But he said this, signifying by what 
kind of death he should die. 12:34The multitude answered him, "We have 
heard out of the law that the Christ remains forever. How do you say, 'The Son of Man must be lifted up?' Who is this Son of 
Man?" 
12:35Jesus therefore said to them, "Yet a 
little while the light is with you. Walk while you have the light, that darkness 
doesn't overtake you. He who walks in the darkness doesn't know where he is 
going. 12:36While you have the light, believe in 
the light, that you may become children of light." Jesus said these things, and 
he departed and hid himself from them. 12:37But though he had done so many signs 
before them, yet they didn't believe in him, 12:38that the word of 
Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spoke, 
"Lord, who has believed our 
report?To whom has the arm of the Lord 
been revealed?" 
12:39For this cause they couldn't believe, 
for Isaiah said again, 
12:40"He has blinded their eyes and he 
hardened their heart,Lest they should 
see with their eyes,And perceive with 
their heart,And would 
turn,And I would heal them." 
12:41Isaiah said these things when he saw 
his glory, and spoke of him. 12:42Nevertheless even of the rulers many 
believed in him, but because of the Pharisees they didn't confess it, so that 
they wouldn't be put out of the synagogue, 12:43for they loved 
men's praise more than God's praise. 
12:44Jesus cried out and said, "Whoever believes in me, believes not in me, but in him who sent 
me. 12:45He who sees me 
sees him who sent me. 12:46I have come as a 
light into the world, that whoever believes in me may not remain in the 
darkness. 12:47If anyone listens 
to my sayings, and doesn't believe, I don't judge him. For I came not to judge 
the world, but to save the world. 12:48He who rejects me, and doesn't receive my sayings, has one who 
judges him. The word that I spoke, the same will judge him in the last day. 
12:49For I spoke not 
from myself, but the Father who sent me, he gave me a commandment, what I should 
say, and what I should speak. 12:50I know that his 
commandment is eternal life. The things therefore which I speak, even as the 
Father has said to me, so I speak."
13:1Now before the feast of the Passover, 
Jesus knowing that his time had come that he would depart from this world to the 
Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. 13:2After supper, the devil having already 
put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him, 13:3Jesus, knowing that the Father had 
given all things into his hands, and that he came forth from God, and was going 
to God, 13:4arose from supper, and laid aside his 
outer garments. He took a towel, and wrapped a towel around his waist. 13:5Then he poured water into the basin, 
and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel that was 
wrapped around him. 13:6Then he came to Simon Peter. He said to 
him, "Lord, do you wash my feet?" 
13:7Jesus answered him, "You don't know what I am doing now, but you will understand 
later."
13:8Peter said to him, "You will never wash 
my feet!" 
Jesus answered him, "If I don't wash you, you have no 
part with me."
13:9Simon Peter said to him, "Lord, not my 
feet only, but also my hands and my head!" 
13:10Jesus said to him, "Someone who has bathed only needs to have his feet washed, but is 
completely clean. You are clean, but not all of you." 13:11For he knew him who would betray him, 
therefore he said, "You are not all clean." 13:12So when he had washed their feet, put 
his outer garment back on, and sat down again, he said to them, "Do you know what I have done to you? 13:13You call me, 'Teacher' and 'Lord.' You say so correctly, for so I 
am. 13:14If I then, the 
Lord and the Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one 
another's feet. 13:15For I have given 
you an example, that you also should do as I have done to you. 13:16Most assuredly I 
tell you, a servant is not greater than his lord, neither one who is sent 
greater than he who sent him. 13:17If you know these 
things, blessed are you if you do them. 13:18I don't speak concerning all of you. I know whom I have chosen. 
But that the Scripture may be fulfilled, 'He who eats bread with me has lifted 
up his heel against me.' 13:19From now on, I 
tell you before it happens, that when it happens, you may believe that I AM. 
13:20Most assuredly I 
tell you, he who receives whomever I send, receives me; and he who receives me, 
receives him who sent me."
13:21When Jesus had said this, he was 
troubled in spirit, and testified, "Most assuredly I tell 
you that one of you will betray me."
13:22The disciples looked at one another, 
perplexed about whom he spoke. 13:23One of his disciples, whom Jesus 
loved, was at the table, leaning against Jesus' breast. 13:24Simon Peter 
therefore beckoned to him, and said to him, "Tell us who it is of whom he 
speaks." 
13:25He, leaning back, as he was, on Jesus' 
breast, asked him, "Lord, who is it?" 
13:26Jesus therefore answered, "It is he to whom I will give this piece of bread when I have 
dipped it." So when he had dipped the piece of bread, he gave it to 
Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. 13:27After the piece of bread, then Satan 
entered into him. 
Then Jesus said to him, "What you do, do quickly."
13:28Now no man at the table knew why he 
said this to him. 13:29For some thought, because Judas had 
the money box, that Jesus said to him, "Buy what things we need for the feast," 
or that he should give something to the poor. 13:30Therefore, having 
received that morsel, he went out immediately. It was night. 
13:31When he had gone out, Jesus said, 
"Now the Son of Man has been glorified, and God has been 
glorified in him. 13:32If God has been 
glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and he will glorify him 
immediately. 13:33Little children, I 
will be with you a little while longer. You will seek me, and as I said to the 
Jews, 'Where I am going, you can't come,' so now I tell you. 13:34A new commandment 
I give to you, that you love one another, just like I have loved you; that you 
also love one another. 13:35By this everyone 
will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another."
13:36Simon Peter said to him, "Lord, where 
are you going?" 
Jesus answered, "Where I am going, you can't follow now, 
but you will follow afterwards."
13:37Peter said to him, "Lord, why can't I 
follow you now? I will lay down my life for you." 
13:38Jesus answered him, "Will you lay down your life for me? Most assuredly I tell you, 
the rooster won't crow until you have denied me three times. 
14:1"Don't let your 
heart be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. 14:2In my Father's 
house are many mansions. If it weren't so, I would have told you. I am going to 
prepare a place for you. 14:3If I go and prepare 
a place for you, I will come again, and will receive you to myself; that where I 
am, you may be there also. 14:4Where I go, you 
know, and you know the way."
14:5Thomas says to him, "Lord, we don't 
know where you are going. How can we know the way?" 
14:6Jesus said to him, "I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the 
Father, except through me. 14:7If you had known 
me, you would have known my Father also. From now on, you know him, and have 
seen him."
14:8Philip said to him, "Lord, show us the 
Father, and that will be enough for us." 
14:9Jesus said to him, "Have I been with you such a long time, and do you not know me, 
Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. How do you say, 'Show us the 
Father?' 14:10Don't you believe 
that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I tell you, I 
speak not from myself; but the Father who lives in me does his works. 14:11Believe me that I 
am in the Father, and the Father in me; or else believe me for the very works' 
sake. 14:12Most assuredly I 
tell you, he who believes in me, the works that I do, he will do also; and 
greater works than these will he do; because I am going to my Father. 14:13Whatever you will 
ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. 
14:14If you will ask 
anything in my name, I will do it. 14:15If you love me, keep my commandments. 14:16I will pray to the Father, and he will give you another Counselor, that he may 
be with you forever,--14:17the Spirit of 
truth, whom the world can't receive; for it doesn't see him, neither knows him. 
You know him, for he lives with you, and will be in you. 14:18I will not leave 
you orphans. I will come to you. 14:19Yet a little 
while, and the world will see me no more; but you will see me. Because I live, 
you will live also. 14:20In that day you 
will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. 14:21One who has my 
commandments, and keeps them, that person is one who loves me. One who loves me 
will be loved by my Father, and I will love him, and will reveal myself to 
him."
14:22Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, 
"Lord, what has happened that you are about to reveal yourself to us, and not to 
the world?" 
14:23Jesus answered him, "If a man loves me, he will keep my word. My Father will love him, 
and we will come to him, and make our home with him. 14:24He who doesn't love me doesn't keep my words. The word which you 
hear isn't mine, but the Father's who sent me. 14:25I have said these things to you, while still living with you. 
14:26But the Counselor, 
the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all 
things, and will remind you of all that I said to you. 14:27Peace I leave with 
you. My peace I give to you; not as the world gives, give I to you. Don't let 
your heart be troubled, neither let it be fearful. 14:28You heard how I told you, 'I go away, and I come to you.' If you 
loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I said 'I am going to my Father;' for 
the Father is greater than I. 14:29Now I have told 
you before it happens so that, when it happens, you may believe. 14:30I will no more 
speak much with you, for the prince of the world comes, and he has nothing in 
me. 14:31But that the world 
may know that I love the Father, and as the Father commanded me, even so I do. 
Arise, let us go from here. 
15:1"I am the true 
vine, and my Father is the farmer. 15:2Every branch in me that doesn't bear fruit, he takes away. Every 
branch that bears fruit, he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. 15:3You are already 
pruned clean because of the word which I have spoken to you. 15:4Remain in me, and I 
in you. As the branch can't bear fruit by itself, unless it remains in the vine, 
so neither can you, unless you remain in me. 15:5I am the vine. You are the branches. He who remains in me, and I 
in him, the same bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. 
15:6If a man doesn't 
remain in me, he is thrown out as a branch, and is withered; and they gather 
them, throw them into the fire, and they are burned. 15:7If you remain in me, and my words remain in you, you will ask 
whatever you desire, and it will be done for you. 
15:8"In this is my 
Father glorified, that you bear much fruit; and so you will be my disciples. 
15:9Even as the Father 
has loved me, I also have loved you. Remain in my love. 15:10If you keep my 
commandments, you will remain in my love; even as I have kept my Father's 
commandments, and remain in his love. 15:11I have spoken these things to you, that my joy may remain in you, 
and that your joy may be made full. 
15:12"This is my 
commandment, that you love one another, even as I have loved you. 15:13Greater love has 
no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. 15:14You are my 
friends, if you do whatever I command you. 15:15No longer do I call you servants, for the servant doesn't know 
what his lord does. But I have called you friends, for everything that I heard 
from my Father, I have made known to you. 15:16You didn't choose me, but I chose you, and appointed you, that you 
should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should remain; that whatever you 
will ask of the Father in my name, he may give it to you. 
15:17"I command these 
things to you, that you may love one another. 15:18If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it 
hated you. 15:19If you were of the 
world, the world would love its own. But because you are not of the world, since 
I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. 15:20Remember the word 
that I said to you: 'A servant is not greater than his lord.' If they persecuted 
me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will keep yours 
also. 15:21But all these 
things will they do to you for my name's sake, because they don't know him who 
sent me. 15:22If I had not come 
and spoken to them, they would not have had sin; but now they have no excuse for 
their sin. 15:23He who hates me, 
hates my Father also. 15:24If I hadn't done 
among them the works which no one else did, they wouldn't have had sin. But now 
have they seen and also hated both me and my Father. 15:25But this happened so that the word may be fulfilled which was 
written in their law, 'They hated me without a cause.' 
15:26"When the Counselor has come, whom 
I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the 
Father, he will testify about me. 15:27You will also testify, because you have been with me from the 
beginning. 
16:1"These things have 
I spoken to you, so that you wouldn't be caused to stumble. 16:2They will put you 
out of the synagogues. Yes, the time comes that whoever kills you will think 
that he offers service to God. 16:3They will do these 
things* because they have not known the Father, nor me. 16:4But I have told you 
these things, so that when the time comes, you may remember that I told you 
about them. I didn't tell you these things from the beginning, because I was 
with you. 16:5But now I am going 
to him who sent me, and none of you asks me, 'Where are you going?' 16:6But because I have 
told you these things, sorrow has filled your heart. 16:7Nevertheless I tell you the truth: It is to your advantage that I 
go away, for if I don't go away, the Counselor won't come to you. But if I go, I 
will send him to you. 16:8When he has come, 
he will convict the world about sin, about righteousness, and about judgment; 
16:9about sin, because 
they don't believe in me; 16:10about 
righteousness, because I am going to my Father, and you won't see me any more; 
16:11about judgment, 
because the prince of this world has been judged. 
16:12"I have yet many 
things to tell you, but you can't bear them now. 16:13However when he, the Spirit of truth, has come, he will guide you 
into all truth, for he will not speak from himself; but whatever he hears, he 
will speak. He will declare to you things that are coming. 16:14He will glorify 
me, for he will take from what is mine, and will declare it to you. 16:15All things 
whatever the Father has are mine; therefore I said that he takes of mine, and will 
declare it to you. 16:16A little while, 
and you will not see me. Again a little while, and you will see me."
16:17Some of his disciples therefore said 
to one another, "What is this that he says to us, 'A little 
while, and you won't see me, and again a little while, and you will see 
me;' and, 'Because I go to the Father?'" 16:18They said therefore, "What is this 
that he says, 'A little while?' We don't know what he 
is saying." 
16:19Therefore Jesus perceived that they 
wanted to ask him, and he said to them, "Do you inquire 
among yourselves concerning this, that I said, 'A little while, and you won't 
see me, and again a little while, and you will see me?' 16:20Most assuredly I 
tell you, that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. You will be 
sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned into joy. 16:21A woman, when she gives birth, has sorrow, because her time has 
come. But when she has delivered the child, she doesn't remember the anguish any 
more, for the joy that a human being is born into the world. 16:22Therefore you now 
have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and no one 
will take your joy away from you. 
16:23"In that day you 
will ask me no questions. Most assuredly I tell you, whatever you may ask of the 
Father in my name, he will give it to you. 16:24Until now, you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will 
receive, that your joy may be made full. 16:25I have spoken these things to you in figures of speech. But the 
time is coming when I will no more speak to you in figures of speech, but will 
tell you plainly about the Father. 16:26In that day you will ask in my name; and I don't say to you, that 
I will pray to the Father for you, 16:27for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me, and 
have believed that I came forth from God. 16:28I came out from the Father, and have come into the world. Again, I 
leave the world, and go to the Father."
16:29His disciples said to him, "Behold, 
now you speak plainly, and speak no figures of speech. 16:30Now we know that 
you know all things, and don't need for anyone to question you. By this we 
believe that you came forth from God." 
16:31Jesus answered them, "Do you now believe? 16:32Behold, the time is coming, yes, and has now come, that you will 
be scattered, everyone to his own place, and you will leave me alone. Yet I am 
not alone, because the Father is with me. 16:33I have told you these things, that in me you may have peace. In 
the world you have oppression; but cheer up! I have overcome the world."
17:1Jesus said these things, and lifting up 
his eyes to heaven, he said, "Father, the time has come. 
Glorify your Son, that your Son may also glorify you; 17:2even as you gave him authority over all flesh, he will give 
eternal life to all whom you have given him. 17:3This is eternal life, that they should know you, the only true 
God, and him whom you sent, Jesus Christ. 17:4I glorified you on the earth. I have accomplished the work which 
you have given me to do. 17:5Now, Father, 
glorify me with your own self with the glory which I had with you before the 
world existed. 17:6I revealed your 
name to the people whom you have given me out of the world. They were yours, and 
you have given them to me. They have kept your word. 17:7Now they have known that all things whatever you have given me are 
from you, 17:8for the words which 
you have given me I have given to them, and they received them, and knew for 
sure that I came forth from you, and they have believed that you sent me. 
17:9I pray for them. I 
don't pray for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are 
yours. 17:10All things that 
are mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. 17:11I am no more in 
the world, but these are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep 
them through your name which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we 
are. 17:12While I was with 
them in the world, I kept them in your name. Those whom you have given me I have 
kept. None of them is lost, except the son of destruction, that the Scripture 
might be fulfilled. 17:13But now I come to 
you, and I say these things in the world, that they may have my joy made full in 
themselves. 17:14I have given them 
your word. The world hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am 
not of the world. 17:15I pray not that 
you would take them from the world, but that you would keep them from the evil 
one. 17:16They are not of 
the world even as I am not of the world. 17:17Sanctify them in your truth. Your word is truth. 17:18As you sent me 
into the world, even so I have sent them into the world. 17:19For their sakes I 
sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth. 17:20Not for these only 
do I pray, but for those also who believe in me through their word, 17:21that they may all 
be one; even as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be one 
in us; that the world may believe that you sent me. 17:22The glory which you have given me, I have given to them; that they 
may be one, even as we are one; 17:23I in them, and you 
in me, that they may be perfected into one; that the world may know that you 
sent me, and loved them, even as you loved me. 17:24Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me be with me 
where I am, that they may see my glory, which you have given me, for you loved 
me before the foundation of the world. 17:25Righteous Father, the world hasn't known you, but I knew you; and 
these knew that you sent me. 17:26I made known to 
them your name, and will make it known; that the love with which you loved me 
may be in them, and I in them."
18:1When Jesus had spoken these words, he 
went out with his disciples over the brook Kidron, where was a garden, into 
which he and his disciples entered. 18:2Now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew 
the place, for Jesus often resorted there with his disciples. 18:3Judas then, having taken a detachment 
of soldiers and officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, came there 
with lanterns, torches, and weapons. 18:4Jesus therefore, knowing all the things 
that were happening to him, went forth, and said to them, "Who are you looking for?"
18:5They answered him, "Jesus of Nazareth." 

Jesus said to them, "I AM."
Judas also, who betrayed him, was standing with them. 18:6When therefore he 
said to them, "I AM," they went backward, and fell to 
the ground. 
18:7Again therefore he asked them, "Who are you looking for?"
They said, "Jesus of Nazareth." 
18:8Jesus answered, "I 
told you that I AM. If therefore you seek me, let these go their way," 18:9that the word might be fulfilled which 
he spoke, "Of those whom you have given me, I have lost 
none."
18:10Simon Peter therefore, having a sword, 
drew it, and struck the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The 
servant's name was Malchus. 18:11Jesus therefore said to Peter, "Put the sword into its sheath. The cup which the Father has given 
me, shall I not surely drink it?"
18:12So the detachment, the commanding 
officer, and the officers of the Jews, seized Jesus and bound him, 18:13and led him to Annas first, for he was 
father-in-law to Caiaphas, who was high priest that year. 18:14Now it was 
Caiaphas who advised the Jews that it was expedient that one man should perish 
for the people. 18:15Simon Peter followed Jesus, as did 
another disciple. Now that disciple was known to the high priest, and entered in 
with Jesus into the court of the high priest; 18:16but Peter was 
standing at the door outside. So the other disciple, who was known to the high 
priest, went out and spoke to her who kept the door, and brought in Peter. 18:17Then the maid who kept the door said 
to Peter, "Are you also one of this man's disciples?" 
He said, "I am not." 
18:18Now the servants and the officers were 
standing there, having made a fire of coals, for it was cold. They were warming 
themselves. Peter was with them, standing and warming himself. 18:19The high priest therefore asked Jesus 
about his disciples, and about his teaching. 18:20Jesus answered 
him, "I spoke openly to the world. I always taught in 
synagogues, and in the temple, where the Jews always meet. I said nothing in 
secret. 18:21Why do you ask me? 
Ask those who have heard me what I said to them. Behold, these know the things 
which I said."
18:22When he had said this, one of the 
officers standing by slapped Jesus with his hand, saying, "Do you answer the 
high priest like that?" 
18:23Jesus answered him, "If I have spoken evil, testify of the evil; but if well, why do 
you beat me?"
18:24Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas, the 
high priest. 18:25Now Simon Peter was standing and 
warming himself. They said therefore to him, "You aren't also one of his 
disciples, are you?" 
He denied it, and said, "I am not." 
18:26One of the servants of the high 
priest, being a relative of him whose ear Peter had cut off, said, "Didn't I see 
you in the garden with him?" 
18:27Peter therefore denied it again, and 
immediately the rooster crowed. 
18:28They led Jesus therefore from Caiaphas 
into the Praetorium. It was early, and they themselves didn't enter into the 
Praetorium, that they might not be defiled, but might eat the Passover. 18:29Pilate therefore went out to them, and 
said, "What accusation do you bring against this man?" 
18:30They answered him, "If this man 
weren't an evildoer, we wouldn't have delivered him up to you." 
18:31Pilate therefore said to them, "Take 
him yourselves, and judge him according to your law." 
Therefore the Jews said to him, "It is not lawful for us to put anyone to 
death," 18:32that the word of Jesus might be 
fulfilled, which he spoke, signifying by what kind of death he should die. 
18:33Pilate therefore entered again into 
the Praetorium, called Jesus, and said to him, "Are you the King of the Jews?" 
18:34Jesus answered him, "Do you say this by yourself, or did others tell you about 
me?"
18:35Pilate answered, "I'm not a Jew, am I? 
Your own nation and the chief priests delivered you to me. What have you done?" 
18:36Jesus answered, "My Kingdom is not of this world. If my Kingdom were of this 
world, then my servants would fight, that I wouldn't be delivered to the Jews. 
But now my Kingdom is not from here."
18:37Pilate therefore said to him, "Are you 
a king then?" 
Jesus answered, "You say that I am a king. For this 
reason I have been born, and for this reason I have come into the world, that I 
should testify to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my 
voice."
18:38Pilate said to him, "What is truth?" 
When he had said this, he went out again to the Jews, and said to them, "I 
find no basis for a charge against him. 18:39But you have a custom, that I should 
release someone to you at the Passover. Therefore do you want me to release to 
you the King of the Jews?" 
18:40Then they all shouted again, saying, 
"Not this man, but Barabbas!" Now Barabbas was a robber. 
19:1So Pilate then took Jesus, and flogged 
him. 19:2The soldiers twisted thorns into a 
crown, and put it on his head, and dressed him in a purple garment. 19:3They kept saying, "Hail, King of the 
Jews!" and they kept slapping him. 
19:4Then Pilate went out again, and said to 
them, "Behold, I bring him out to you, that you may know that I find no basis 
for a charge against him." 
19:5Jesus therefore came out, wearing the 
crown of thorns and the purple garment. Pilate said to them, "Behold, the man!" 
19:6When therefore the chief priests and 
the officers saw him, they shouted, saying, "Crucify! Crucify!" 
Pilate said to them, "Take him yourselves, and crucify him, for I find no 
basis for a charge against him." 
19:7The Jews answered him, "We have a law, 
and by our law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God." 
19:8When therefore Pilate heard this 
saying, he was more afraid. 19:9He entered into the Praetorium again, 
and said to Jesus, "Where are you from?" But Jesus gave him no answer. 19:10Pilate therefore said to him, "Aren't 
you speaking to me? Don't you know that I have power to release you, and have 
power to crucify you?" 
19:11Jesus answered, "You would have no power at all against me, unless it were given 
to you from above. Therefore he who delivered me to you has greater sin."
19:12At this, Pilate was seeking to release 
him, but the Jews cried out, saying, "If you release this man, you aren't 
Caesar's friend! Everyone who makes himself a king speaks against Caesar!" 
19:13When Pilate therefore heard these 
words, he brought Jesus out, and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called 
"The Pavement," but in Hebrew, "Gabbatha." 19:14Now it was the 
Preparation Day of the Passover, at about the sixth hour. He said 
to the Jews, "Behold, your King!" 
19:15They cried out, "Away with him! Away 
with him! Crucify him!" 
Pilate said to them, "Shall I crucify your King?" 
The chief priests answered, "We have no king but Caesar!" 
19:16So then he delivered him to them to be 
crucified. So they took Jesus and led him away. 19:17He went out, 
bearing his cross, to the place called "The Place of a Skull," which is called 
in Hebrew, "Golgotha," 19:18where they crucified him, and with him 
two others, on either side one, and Jesus in the middle. 19:19Pilate wrote a 
title also, and put it on the cross. There was written, "JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE 
KING OF THE JEWS." 19:20Therefore many of the Jews read this 
title, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city; and it was 
written in Hebrew, in Latin, and in Greek. 19:21The chief priests 
of the Jews therefore said to Pilate, "Don't write, 'The King of the Jews,' but, 
'he said, I am King of the Jews.'" 
19:22Pilate answered, "What I have written, 
I have written." 
19:23Then the soldiers, when they had 
crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to every soldier a part; 
and also the coat. Now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout. 
19:24Then they said to one another, "Let's 
not tear it, but cast lots for it to decide whose it will be," that the 
Scripture might be fulfilled, which says, 
"They parted my garments among 
them.For my cloak they cast lots." 
Therefore the soldiers did these things. 19:25But there were 
standing by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary the 
wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. 19:26Therefore when Jesus saw his mother, 
and the disciple whom he loved standing there, he said to his mother, "Woman, behold your son!" 19:27Then he said to 
the disciple, "Behold, your mother!" From that hour, 
the disciple took her to his own home. 
19:28After this, Jesus, seeing that all things 
were now finished, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, said, "I am thirsty." 19:29Now a vessel full of vinegar was set 
there; so they put a sponge full of the vinegar on hyssop, and held it at his 
mouth. 19:30When Jesus therefore had received the 
vinegar, he said, "It is finished." He bowed his 
head, and gave up his spirit. 
19:31Therefore the Jews, because it was the 
Preparation Day, so that the bodies wouldn't remain on the cross on the Sabbath 
(for that Sabbath was a special one), asked of Pilate that their legs might be 
broken, and that they might be taken away. 19:32Therefore the 
soldiers came, and broke the legs of the first, and of the other who was 
crucified with him; 19:33but when they came to Jesus, and saw 
that he was already dead, they didn't break his legs. 19:34However one of the 
soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came 
out. 19:35He who has seen has testified, and his 
testimony is true. He knows that he tells the truth, that you may believe. 19:36For these things happened, that the 
Scripture might be fulfilled, "A bone of him will not be broken." 19:37Again another Scripture says, "They 
will look on him whom they pierced." 
19:38After these things, Joseph of 
Arimathaea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked 
of Pilate that he might take away Jesus' body. Pilate gave him permission. He 
came therefore and took away his body. 19:39Nicodemus, who at first came to Jesus 
by night, also came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds. 19:40So they took Jesus' body, and bound it 
in linen cloths with the spices, as the custom of the Jews is to bury. 19:41Now in the place where he was 
crucified there was a garden. In the garden a new tomb in which no man had ever 
yet been laid. 19:42Then because of the Jews' Preparation 
Day (for the tomb was near at hand) they laid Jesus there. 
20:1Now on the first day of the week, Mary 
Magdalene went early, while it was still dark, to the tomb, and saw the stone 
taken away from the tomb. 20:2Therefore she ran and came to Simon 
Peter, and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and said to them, "They have 
taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we don't know where they have laid 
him!" 
20:3Therefore Peter and the other disciple 
went out, and they went toward the tomb. 20:4They both ran together. The other 
disciple outran Peter, and came to the tomb first. 20:5Stooping and 
looking in, he saw the linen cloths lying, yet he didn't enter in. 20:6Then Simon Peter came, following him, 
and entered into the tomb. He saw the linen cloths lying, 20:7and the cloth that 
had been on his head, not lying with the linen cloths, but rolled up in a place 
by itself. 20:8So then the other disciple who came 
first to the tomb also entered in, and he saw and believed. 20:9For as yet they 
didn't know the Scripture, that he must rise from the dead. 20:10So the disciples 
went away again to their own homes. 
20:11But Mary was standing outside at the 
tomb weeping. So, as she wept, she stooped and looked into the tomb, 20:12and she saw two angels in white 
sitting, one at the head, and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. 
20:13They told her, "Woman, why are you 
weeping?" 
She said to them, "Because they have taken away my Lord, and I don't know 
where they have laid him." 20:14When she had said this, she turned 
around and saw Jesus standing, and didn't know that it was Jesus. 
20:15Jesus said to her, "Woman, why are you weeping? Who are you looking for?"
She, supposing him to be the gardener, said to him, "Sir, if you have carried 
him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away." 
20:16Jesus said to her, "Mary."
She turned and said to him, "Rhabbouni!" which is to say, "Teacher!" 
20:17Jesus said to her, "Don't touch me, for I haven't yet ascended to my Father; but go 
to my brothers, and tell them, 'I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to 
my God and your God.'"
20:18Mary Magdalene came and told the 
disciples that she had seen the Lord, and that he had said these things to her. 
20:19When therefore it was evening, on that 
day, the first day of the week, and when the doors were locked where the 
disciples were assembled, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the 
midst, and said to them, "Peace be to you."
20:20When he had said this, he showed them 
his hands and his side. The disciples therefore were glad when they saw the 
Lord. 20:21Jesus therefore said to them again, 
"Peace be to you. As the Father has sent me, even so I send 
you." 20:22When he had said this, he breathed on 
them, and said to them, "Receive the Holy Spirit! 20:23Whoever's sins you 
forgive, they are forgiven them. Whoever's sins you retain, they have been 
retained."
20:24But Thomas, one of the twelve, called 
Didymus, wasn't with them when Jesus came. 20:25The other 
disciples therefore said to him, "We have seen the Lord!" 
But he said to them, "Unless I see in his hands the print of the nails, and 
put my hand into his side, I will not believe." 
20:26After eight days again his disciples 
were inside, and Thomas was with them. Jesus came, the doors being locked, and 
stood in the midst, and said, "Peace be to you." 20:27Then he said to Thomas, "Reach here your finger, and see my hands. Reach here your hand, 
and put it into my side. Don't be unbelieving, but believing."
20:28Thomas answered him, "My Lord and my 
God!" 
20:29Jesus said to him, "Because you have seen me,* you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen, and have 
believed."
20:30Therefore Jesus did many other signs 
in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book; 20:31but these are written, that you may 
believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may 
have life in his name. 
21:1After these things, Jesus revealed 
himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias. He revealed himself this 
way. 21:2Simon Peter, Thomas called Didymus, 
Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his 
disciples were together. 21:3Simon Peter said to them, "I'm going 
fishing." 
They told him, "We are also coming with you." They immediately went out, and 
entered into the boat. That night, they caught nothing. 21:4But when day had 
already come, Jesus stood on the beach, yet the disciples didn't know that it 
was Jesus. 21:5Jesus therefore said to them, "Children, have you anything to eat?"
They answered him, "No." 
21:6He said to them, "Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find 
some."
They cast it therefore, and now they weren't able to draw it in for the 
multitude of fish. 21:7That disciple therefore whom Jesus 
loved said to Peter, "It's the Lord!" 
So when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he wrapped his coat around 
him (for he was naked), and threw himself into the sea. 21:8But the other 
disciples came in the little boat (for they were not far from the land, but 
about two hundred 
cubits away), dragging the net full of fish. 21:9So when they got 
out on the land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid on it, and bread. 
21:10Jesus said to them, "Bring some of the fish which you have just caught."
21:11Simon Peter went up, and drew the net 
to land, full of great fish, one hundred fifty-three; and even though there were 
so many, the net wasn't torn. 
21:12Jesus said to them, "Come and eat breakfast."
None of the disciples dared inquire of him, "Who are you?" knowing that it 
was the Lord. 
21:13Then Jesus came and took the bread, 
gave it to them, and the fish likewise. 21:14This is now the third time that Jesus 
was revealed to his disciples, after he had risen from the dead. 21:15So when they had eaten their 
breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, "Simon, son of Jonah, 
do you love me more than these?"
He said to him, "Yes, Lord; you know that I have affection for you." 
He said to him, "Feed my lambs." 21:16He said to him again a second time, 
"Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me?"
He said to him, "Yes, Lord; you know that I have affection for you." 
He said to him, "Tend my sheep." 21:17He said to him the third time, "Simon, son of Jonah, do you have affection for me?"
Peter was grieved because he asked him the third time, "Do you have affection for me?" He said to him, "Lord, you 
know everything. You know that I have affection for you." 
Jesus said to him, "Feed my sheep. 21:18Most assuredly I 
tell you, when you were young, you dressed yourself, and walked where you wanted 
to. But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will 
dress you, and carry you where you don't want to go."
21:19Now he said this, signifying by what 
kind of death he would glorify God. When he had said this, he said to him, "Follow me."
21:20Then Peter, turning around, saw a 
disciple following. This was the disciple whom Jesus sincerely loved, the one 
who had also leaned on Jesus' breast at the supper and asked, "Lord, who is 
going to betray You?" 21:21Peter seeing him, said to Jesus, 
"Lord, what about this man?" 
21:22Jesus said to him, "If I desire that he stay until I come, what is that to you? You 
follow me." 21:23This saying therefore went out among 
the brothers, that 
this disciple wouldn't die. Yet Jesus didn't say to him that he wouldn't die, 
but, "If I desire that he stay until I come, what is that to 
you?" 21:24This is the disciple who testifies 
about these things, and wrote these things. We know that his witness is true. 21:25There are also many other things which 
Jesus did, which if they would all be written, I suppose that even the world 
itself wouldn't have room for the books that would be written. 




Notes:
[1] back to 1:5 The word 
translated "overcome" (katelaben) can also be translated "comprehended." It 
refers to getting a grip on an enemy to defeat him.
[2] back to 1:39 4:00 PM.
[3] back to 1:41 "Messiah" 
(Hebrew) and "Christ" (Greek) both mean "Anointed One".
[4] back to 2:6 2 to 3 
metretes is about 20 to 30 U. S. Gallons, 16 to 25 imperial gallons, or 75 to 
115 litres.
[5] back to 3:3 The word 
translated "anew" here and in John 3:7 (anothen) also means "again" and "from 
above".
[6] back to 3:8 The same 
Greek word (pneuma) means wind, breath, and spirit.
[7] back to 3:36 The same 
word can be translated "disobeys" or "disbelieves" in this context.
[8] back to 4:6 noon
[9] back to 4:52 1:00 P. 
M.
[10] back to 6:19 25 to 30 
stadia is about 5 to 6 kilometers or about 3 to 4 miles
[11] back to 6:31 Greek and 
Hebrew use the same word for "heaven", "the heavens", "the sky", and "the air".
[12] back to 10:22 The 
"Feast of the Dedication" is the Greek name for "Chanukkah," a celebration of 
the rededication of the Temple.
[13] back to 11:16 
"Didymus" means "Twin"
[14] back to 11:18 15 
stadia is about 2.8 kilometers or 1.7 miles
[15] back to 12:3 a Roman 
pound of 12 ounces, or about 340 grams
[16] back to 12:5 300 
denarii was about a year's wages for an agricultural laborer.
[17] back to 14:16 Greek 
Parakleton: Counselor, Helper, Intercessor, Advocate, and Comfortor.
[18] back to 15:26 Greek 
Parakletos: Counselor, Helper, Advocate, Intercessor, and Comfortor.
[19] back to 16:3 TR adds 
"to you"
[20] back to 16:15 TR 
reads "will take" instead of "takes"
[21] back to 19:14 noon
[22] back to 19:28 NU, TR 
read "knowing" instead of "seeing"
[23] back to 19:39 100 
Roman pounds of 12 ounces each, or about 72 pounds, or 33 Kilograms.
[24] back to 20:29 TR adds 
" Thomas,"
[25] back to 21:8 200 
cubits is about 100 yards or about 91 meters
[26] back to 21:23 The 
word for "brothers" here may be also correctly translated "brothers and sisters" 
or "siblings." 

