
The Gospel of John












The Gospel According to Saint John 

1:1In the beginning was the Word, and the 
Word was with God, and the Word was God. 1:2The same was in the beginning with God. 
1:3All things were made through him; and 
without him was not anything made that hath been made. 1:4In him was life; and 
the life was the light of men. 1:5And the light shineth in the darkness; 
and the darkness apprehended it not. 1:6There came a man, sent from God, whose 
name was John. 1:7The same came for witness, that he might 
bear witness of the light, that all might believe through him. 1:8He 
was not the light, but came that he might bear witness of the light. 1:9There was the true light, even the 
light which lighteth every man, coming into the world. 1:10He was in the 
world, and the world was made through him, and the world knew him not. 1:11He 
came unto his own, and they that were his own received him not. 1:12But as many as received him, to them 
gave he the right to become children of God, even to them that believe on 
his name: 1:13who were born, not of blood, nor of the 
will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. 1:14And the Word became 
flesh, and dwelt among us (and we beheld his glory, glory as of the only 
begotten from the Father), full of grace and truth. 1:15John beareth 
witness of him, and crieth, saying, This was he of whom I said, He that cometh 
after me is become before me: for he was before me. 1:16For of his fulness 
we all received, and grace for grace. 1:17For the law was given through Moses; 
grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. 1:18No man hath seen 
God at any time; the only begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he 
hath declared him. 1:19And this is the witness of John, when 
the Jews sent unto him from Jerusalem priests and Levites to ask him, Who art 
thou? 1:20And he confessed, and denied not; and 
he confessed, I am not the Christ. 1:21And they asked him, What then? Art thou 
Elijah? And he saith, I am not. Art thou the prophet? And he answered, No. 1:22They said therefore unto him, Who art 
thou? that we may give an answer to them that sent us. What sayest thou of 
thyself? 1:23He said, I am the voice of one crying 
in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord, as said Isaiah the 
prophet. 1:24And they had been sent from the 
Pharisees. 1:25And they asked him, and said unto him, 
Why then baptizest thou, if thou art not the Christ, neither Elijah, neither the 
prophet? 1:26John answered them, saying, I baptize 
in water: in the midst of you standeth one whom ye know not, 1:27even he that 
cometh after me, the latchet of whose shoe I am not worthy to unloose. 1:28These things were done in Bethany 
beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing. 1:29On the morrow he 
seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold, the Lamb of God, that taketh 
away the sin of the world! 1:30This is he of whom I said, After me 
cometh a man who is become before me: for he was before me. 1:31And I knew him not; 
but that he should be made manifest to Israel, for this cause came I baptizing 
in water. 1:32And John bare witness, saying, I have 
beheld the Spirit descending as a dove out of heaven; and it abode upon him. 1:33And I knew him not: but he that sent me 
to baptize in water, he said unto me, Upon whomsoever thou shalt see the Spirit 
descending, and abiding upon him, the same is he that baptizeth in the Holy 
Spirit. 1:34And I have seen, and have borne witness 
that this is the Son of God. 1:35Again on the morrow John was standing, 
and two of his disciples; 1:36and he looked upon Jesus as he walked, 
and saith, Behold, the Lamb of God! 1:37And the two disciples heard him speak, 
and they followed Jesus. 1:38And Jesus turned, and beheld them 
following, and saith unto them, What seek ye? And they said unto him, Rabbi 
(which is to say, being interpreted, Teacher), where abideth thou? 1:39He 
saith unto them, Come, and ye shall see. They came therefore and saw where he 
abode; and they abode with him that day: it was about the tenth hour. 1:40One of the two that heard John 
speak, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. 1:41He 
findeth first his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the 
Messiah (which is, being interpreted, Christ). 1:42He brought him unto 
Jesus. Jesus looked upon him, and said, Thou art Simon the son of John: thou 
shalt be called Cephas (which is by interpretation, Peter). 1:43On the morrow he 
was minded to go forth into Galilee, and he findeth Philip: and Jesus saith unto 
him, Follow me. 1:44Now Philip was from Bethsaida, of the 
city of Andrew and Peter. 1:45Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith 
unto him, We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, wrote, 
Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. 1:46And Nathanael said unto him, Can any 
good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip saith unto him, Come and see. 1:47Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and 
saith of him, Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile! 1:48Nathanael saith unto him, Whence 
knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said unto him, Before Philip called thee, 
when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee. 1:49Nathanael answered 
him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God; thou art King of Israel. 1:50Jesus answered and said unto him, 
Because I said unto thee, I saw thee underneath the fig tree, believest thou? 
thou shalt see greater things than these. 1:51And he saith unto 
him, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Ye shall see the heaven opened, and the 
angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man. 

2:1And the third day there was a marriage 
in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there: 2:2and Jesus also was 
bidden, and his disciples, to the marriage. 2:3And when the wine 
failed, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine. 2:4And 
Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? mine hour is not yet 
come. 2:5His mother saith unto the servants, 
Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it. 2:6Now there were six waterpots of stone 
set there after the Jews' manner of purifying, containing two or three firkins 
apiece. 2:7Jesus saith unto them, Fill the 
waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim. 2:8And he saith unto 
them, Draw out now, and bear unto the ruler of the feast. And they bare it. 2:9And 
when the ruler of the feast tasted the water now become wine, and knew not 
whence it was (but the servants that had drawn the water knew), the ruler of the 
feast calleth the bridegroom, 2:10and saith unto him, Every man setteth 
on first the good wine; and when men have drunk freely, then that 
which is worse: thou hast kept the good wine until now. 2:11This beginning of 
his signs did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested his glory; and his 
disciples believed on him. 2:12After this he went down to Capernaum, 
he, and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples; and there they 
abode not many days. 2:13And the passover of the Jews was at 
hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 2:14And he found in the temple those that 
sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the changers of money sitting: 2:15and he made a scourge of cords, and 
cast all out of the temple, both the sheep and the oxen; and he poured out the 
changers' money, and overthrew their tables; 2:16and to them that 
sold the doves he said, Take these things hence; make not my Father's house a 
house of merchandise. 2:17His disciples remembered that it was 
written, Zeal for thy house shall eat me up. 2:18The Jews therefore 
answered and said unto him, What sign showest thou unto us, seeing that thou 
doest these things? 2:19Jesus answered and said unto them, 
Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. 2:20The Jews therefore 
said, Forty and six years was this temple in building, and wilt thou raise it up 
in three days? 2:21But he spake of the temple of his body. 
2:22When therefore he was raised from the 
dead, his disciples remembered that he spake this; and they believed the 
scripture, and the word which Jesus had said. 2:23Now when he was in 
Jerusalem at the passover, during the feast, many believed on his name, 
beholding his signs which he did. 2:24But Jesus did not trust himself unto 
them, for that he knew all men, 2:25and because he needed not that any one 
should bear witness concerning man; for he himself knew what was in man. 

3:1Now there was a man of the Pharisees, 
named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews: 3:2the same came unto him by night, and 
said to him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God; for no one 
can do these signs that thou doest, except God be with him. 3:3Jesus answered and 
said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except one be born anew, he 
cannot see the kingdom of God. 3:4Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man 
be born when he is old? can he enter a second time into his mother's womb, and 
be born? 3:5Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say 
unto thee, Except one be born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter into the 
kingdom of God! 3:6That which is born of the flesh is 
flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. 3:7Marvel not that I 
said unto thee, Ye must be born anew. 3:8The wind bloweth where it will, and thou 
hearest the voice thereof, but knowest not whence it cometh, and whither it 
goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit. 3:9Nicodemus answered 
and said unto him, How can these things be? 3:10Jesus answered and 
said unto him, Art thou the teacher of Israel, and understandest not these 
things? 3:11Verily, verily, I say unto thee, We 
speak that which we know, and bear witness of that which we have seen; and ye 
receive not our witness. 3:12If I told you earthly things and ye 
believe not, how shall ye believe if I tell you heavenly things? 3:13And no one hath ascended into heaven, 
but he that descended out of heaven, even the Son of man, who is in 
heaven. 3:14And as Moses lifted up the serpent in 
the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up; 3:15that whosoever 
believeth may in him have eternal life. 3:16For God so loved the world, that he 
gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth on him should not perish, 
but have eternal life. 3:17For God sent not the Son into the world 
to judge the world; but that the world should be saved through him. 3:18He 
that believeth on him is not judged: he that believeth not hath been judged 
already, because he hath not believed on the name of the only begotten Son of 
God. 3:19And this is the judgment, that the 
light is come into the world, and men loved the darkness rather than the light; 
for their works were evil. 3:20For every one that doeth evil hateth 
the light, and cometh not to the light, lest his works should be reproved. 3:21But he that doeth the truth cometh to 
the light, that his works may be made manifest, that they have been wrought in 
God. 3:22After these things came Jesus and his 
disciples into the land of Judea; and there he tarried with them, and baptized. 
3:23And John also was baptizing in Enon 
near to Salim, because there was much water there: and they came, and were 
baptized. 3:24For John was not yet cast into prison. 
3:25There arose therefore a questioning on 
the part of John's disciples with a Jew about purifying. 3:26And they came unto 
John, and said to him, Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond the Jordan, to whom 
thou hast borne witness, behold, the same baptizeth, and all men come to him. 3:27John answered and said, A man can 
receive nothing, except it have been given him from heaven. 3:28Ye yourselves bear 
me witness, that I said, I am not the Christ, but, that I am sent before him. 3:29He 
that hath the bride is the bridegroom: but the friend of the bridegroom, that 
standeth and heareth him, rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom's voice: 
this my joy therefore is made full. 3:30He must increase, but I must decrease. 
3:31He that cometh from above is above all: 
he that is of the earth is of the earth, and of the earth he speaketh: he that 
cometh from heaven is above all. 3:32What he hath seen and heard, of that he 
beareth witness; and no man receiveth his witness. 3:33He that hath 
received his witness hath set his seal to this, that God is true. 3:34For he whom God hath sent speaketh the 
words of God: for he giveth not the Spirit by measure. 3:35The Father loveth 
the Son, and hath given all things into his hand. 3:36He that believeth 
on the Son hath eternal life; but he that obeyeth not the Son shall not see 
life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. 


4:1When therefore the Lord knew that the 
Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John 
4:2(although Jesus himself baptized not, 
but his disciples), 4:3he left Judea, and departed again into 
Galilee. 4:4And he must needs pass through Samaria. 
4:5So he cometh to a city of Samaria, 
called Sychar, near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph: 
4:6and Jacob's well was there. Jesus 
therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus by the well. It was about 
the sixth hour. 4:7There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw 
water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. 4:8For his disciples 
were gone away into the city to buy food. 4:9The Samaritan woman therefore saith unto 
him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, who am a Samaritan 
woman? (For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.) 4:10Jesus answered and 
said unto unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to 
thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given 
thee living water. 4:11The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou 
hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: whence then hast thou that 
living water? 4:12Art thou greater than our father Jacob, 
who gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his sons, and his cattle? 
4:13Jesus answered and said unto her, Every 
one that drinketh of this water shall thirst again: 4:14but whosoever 
drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water 
that I shall give him shall become in him a well of water springing up unto 
eternal life. 4:15The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me 
this water, that I thirst not, neither come all the way hither to draw. 4:16Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy 
husband, and come hither. 4:17The woman answered and said unto him, I 
have no husband. Jesus saith unto her, Thou saidst well, I have no husband: 4:18for thou hast had five husbands; and he 
whom thou now hast is not thy husband: this hast thou said truly. 4:19The woman saith unto him, Sir, I 
perceive that thou art a prophet. 4:20Our fathers worshipped in this 
mountain; and ye say, that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. 
4:21Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe 
me, the hour cometh, when neither in this mountain, nor in Jerusalem, shall ye 
worship the Father. 4:22Ye worship that which ye know not: we 
worship that which we know; for salvation is from the Jews. 4:23But the hour 
cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit 
and truth: for such doth the Father seek to be his worshippers. 4:24God is a Spirit: and they that worship 
him must worship in spirit and truth. 4:25The woman saith unto him, I know that 
Messiah cometh (he that is called Christ): when he is come, he will declare unto 
us all things. 4:26Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto 
thee am he. 4:27And upon this came his disciples; and 
they marvelled that he was speaking with a woman; yet no man said, What seekest 
thou? or, Why speakest thou with her? 4:28So the woman left her waterpot, and 
went away into the city, and saith to the people, 4:29Come, see a man, 
who told me all things that ever I did: can this be the Christ? 4:30They went out of the city, and were 
coming to him. 4:31In the mean while the disciples prayed 
him, saying, Rabbi, eat. 4:32But he said unto them, I have meat to 
eat that ye know not. 4:33The disciples therefore said one to 
another, Hath any man brought him aught to eat? 4:34Jesus saith unto 
them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to accomplish his work. 
4:35Say not ye, There are yet four months, 
and then cometh the harvest? behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes, 
and look on the fields, that they are white already unto harvest. 4:36He 
that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal; that he 
that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together. 4:37For herein is the 
saying true, One soweth, and another reapeth. 4:38I sent you to reap 
that whereon ye have not labored: others have labored, and ye are entered into 
their labor. 4:39And from that city many of the 
Samaritans believed on him because of the word of the woman, who testified, He 
told me all things that ever I did. 4:40So when the 
Samaritans came unto him, they besought him to abide with them: and he abode 
there two days. 4:41And many more believed because of his 
word; 4:42and they said to the woman, Now we 
believe, not because of thy speaking: for we have heard for ourselves, and know 
that this is indeed the Saviour of the world. 4:43And after the two 
days he went forth from thence into Galilee. 4:44For Jesus himself 
testified, that a prophet hath no honor in his own country. 4:45So when he came 
into Galilee, the Galilaeans received him, having seen all the things that he 
did in Jerusalem at the feast: for they also went unto the feast. 4:46He 
came therefore again unto Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And 
there was a certain nobleman, whose son was sick at Capernaum. 4:47When he heard that Jesus was come out 
of Judaea into Galilee, he went unto him, and besought him that he would 
come down, and heal his son; for he was at the point of death. 4:48Jesus therefore said unto him, Except 
ye see signs and wonders, ye will in no wise believe. 4:49The nobleman saith 
unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die. 4:50Jesus saith unto 
him, Go thy way; thy son liveth. The man believed the word that Jesus spake unto 
him, and he went his way. 4:51And as he was now going down, his 
servants met him, saying, that his son lived. 4:52So he inquired of 
them the hour when he began to amend. They said therefore unto him, Yesterday at 
the seventh hour the fever left him. 4:53So the father knew that it was 
at that hour in which Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth: and himself believed, 
and his whole house. 4:54This is again the second sign that 
Jesus did, having come out of Judaea into Galilee. 


5:1After these things there was a feast of 
the Jews; and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 5:2Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheep 
gate a pool, which is called in Hebrew Bethesda, having five porches. 5:3In 
these lay a multitude of them that were sick, blind, halt, withered, waiting 
for the moving of the water. 5:4for an angel of the Lord went down at 
certain seasons into the pool, and troubled the water: whosoever then first 
after the troubling of the waters stepped in was made whole, with whatsoever 
disease he was holden. 5:5And a certain man was there, who had 
been thirty and eight years in his infirmity. 5:6When Jesus saw him 
lying, and knew that he had been now a long time in that case, he saith 
unto him, Wouldest thou be made whole? 5:7The sick man answered him, Sir, I have 
no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the pool: but while I am 
coming, another steppeth down before me. 5:8Jesus saith unto him, Arise, take up thy 
bed, and walk. 5:9And straightway the man was made whole, 
and took up his bed and walked. Now it was the sabbath on that day. 5:10So 
the Jews said unto him that was cured, It is the sabbath, and it is not lawful 
for thee to take up thy bed. 5:11But he answered them, He that made me 
whole, the same said unto me, Take up thy bed, and walk. 5:12They asked him, Who 
is the man that said unto thee, Take up thy bed, and walk? 5:13But he that was healed knew not who it 
was; for Jesus had conveyed himself away, a multitude being in the place. 5:14Afterward Jesus findeth him in the 
temple, and said unto him, Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a 
worse thing befall thee. 5:15The man went away, and told the Jews 
that it was Jesus who had made him whole. 5:16And for this cause 
the Jews persecuted Jesus, because he did these things on the sabbath. 5:17But Jesus answered them, My Father 
worketh even until now, and I work. 5:18For this cause therefore the Jews 
sought the more to kill him, because he not only brake the sabbath, but also 
called God his own Father, making himself equal with God. 5:19Jesus therefore 
answered and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, The Son can do 
nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father doing: for what things soever 
he doeth, these the Son also doeth in like manner. 5:20For the Father 
loveth the Son, and showeth him all things that himself doeth: and greater works 
than these will he show him, that ye may marvel. 5:21For as the Father 
raiseth the dead and giveth them life, even so the Son also giveth life to whom 
he will. 5:22For neither doth the Father judge any 
man, but he hath given all judgment unto the Son; 5:23that all may honor 
the Son, even as they honor the Father. He that honoreth not the Son honoreth 
not the Father that sent him. 5:24Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that 
heareth my word, and believeth him that sent me, hath eternal life, and cometh 
not into judgment, but hath passed out of death into life. 5:25Verily, verily, I 
say unto you, The hour cometh, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of 
the Son of God; and they that hear shall live. 5:26For as the Father 
hath life in himself, even so gave he to the Son also to have life in himself: 
5:27and he gave him authority to execute 
judgment, because he is a son of man. 5:28Marvel not at this: for the hour 
cometh, in which all that are in the tombs shall hear his voice, 5:29and shall come forth; they that have 
done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the 
resurrection of judgment. 5:30I can of myself do nothing: as I hear, 
I judge: and my judgment is righteous; because I seek not mine own will, but the 
will of him that sent me. 5:31If I bear witness of myself, my witness 
is not true. 5:32It is another that beareth witness of 
me; and I know that the witness which he witnesseth of me is true. 5:33Ye 
have sent unto John, and he hath borne witness unto the truth. 5:34But the witness which I receive is not 
from man: howbeit I say these things, that ye may be saved. 5:35He was the lamp 
that burneth and shineth; and ye were willing to rejoice for a season in his 
light. 5:36But the witness which I have is greater 
than that of John; for the works which the Father hath given me to 
accomplish, the very works that I do, bear witness of me, that the Father hath 
sent me. 5:37And the Father that sent me, he hath 
borne witness of me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his 
form. 5:38And ye have not his word abiding in 
you: for whom he sent, him ye believe not. 5:39Ye search the 
scriptures, because ye think that in them ye have eternal life; and these are 
they which bear witness of me; 5:40and ye will not come to me, that ye may 
have life. 5:41I receive not glory from men. 5:42But I know you, that ye have not the 
love of God in yourselves. 5:43I am come in my Father's name, and ye 
receive me not: if another shall come in his own name, him ye will receive. 5:44How can ye believe, who receive glory 
one of another, and the glory that cometh from the only God ye seek not? 
5:45Think not that I will accuse you to the 
Father: there is one that accuseth you, even Moses, on whom ye have set 
your hope. 5:46For if ye believed Moses, ye would 
believe me; for he wrote of me. 5:47But if ye believe not his writings, how 
shall ye believe my words? 

6:1After these things Jesus went away to 
the other side of the sea of Galilee, which is the sea of Tiberias. 6:2And 
a great multitude followed him, because they beheld the signs which he did on 
them that were sick. 6:3And Jesus went up into the mountain, and 
there he sat with his disciples. 6:4Now the passover, the feast of the Jews, 
was at hand. 6:5Jesus therefore lifting up his eyes, and 
seeing that a great multitude cometh unto him, saith unto Philip, Whence are we 
to buy bread, that these may eat? 6:6And this he said to prove him: for he 
himself knew what he would do. 6:7Philip answered him, Two hundred 
shillings' worth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one may take a 
little. 6:8One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon 
Peter's brother, saith unto him, 6:9There is a lad here, who hath five 
barley loaves, and two fishes: but what are these among so many? 6:10Jesus said, Make the people sit down. 
Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five 
thousand. 6:11Jesus therefore took the loaves; and 
having given thanks, he distributed to them that were set down; likewise also of 
the fishes as much as they would. 6:12And when they were filled, he saith 
unto his disciples, Gather up the broken pieces which remain over, that nothing 
be lost. 6:13So they gathered them up, and filled 
twelve baskets with broken pieces from the five barley loaves, which remained 
over unto them that had eaten. 6:14When therefore the people saw the sign 
which he did, they said, This is of a truth the prophet that cometh into the 
world. 6:15Jesus therefore perceiving that they 
were about to come and take him by force, to make him king, withdrew again into 
the mountain himself alone. 6:16And when evening came, his disciples 
went down unto the sea; 6:17and they entered into a boat, and were 
going over the sea unto Capernaum. And it was now dark, and Jesus had not yet 
come to them. 6:18And the sea was rising by reason of a 
great wind that blew. 6:19When therefore they had rowed about 
five and twenty or thirty furlongs, they behold Jesus walking on the sea, and 
drawing nigh unto the boat: and they were afraid. 6:20But he saith unto 
them, It is I; be not afraid. 6:21They were willing therefore to receive 
him into the boat: and straightway the boat was at the land whither they were 
going. 6:22On the morrow the multitude that stood 
on the other side of the sea saw that there was no other boat there, save one, 
and that Jesus entered not with his disciples into the boat, but that his 
disciples went away alone 6:23(howbeit there came boats from Tiberias 
nigh unto the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks): 
6:24when the multitude therefore saw that 
Jesus was not there, neither his disciples, they themselves got into the boats, 
and came to Capernaum, seeking Jesus. 6:25And when they found him on the other 
side of the sea, they said unto him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither? 6:26Jesus answered them and said, Verily, 
verily, I say unto you, Ye seek me, not because ye saw signs, but because ye ate 
of the loaves, and were filled. 6:27Work not for the food which perisheth, 
but for the food which abideth unto eternal life, which the Son of man shall 
give unto you: for him the Father, even God, hath sealed. 6:28They said therefore 
unto him, What must we do, that we may work the works of God? 6:29Jesus answered and said unto them, This 
is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent. 6:30They said therefore unto him, What then 
doest thou for a sign, that we may see, and believe thee? what workest thou? 6:31Our fathers ate the manna in the 
wilderness; as it is written, He gave them bread out of heaven to eat. 6:32Jesus therefore said unto them, Verily, 
verily, I say unto you, It was not Moses that gave you the bread out of heaven; 
but my Father giveth you the true bread out of heaven. 6:33For the bread of 
God is that which cometh down out of heaven, and giveth life unto the world. 6:34They said therefore unto him, Lord, 
evermore give us this bread. 6:35Jesus said unto them. I am the bread of 
life: he that cometh to me shall not hunger, and he that believeth on me shall 
never thirst. 6:36But I said unto you, that ye have seen 
me, and yet believe not. 6:37All that which the Father giveth me 
shall come unto me; and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. 6:38For I am come down from heaven, not to 
do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me. 6:39And this is the 
will of him that sent me, that of all that which he hath given me I should lose 
nothing, but should raise it up at the last day. 6:40For this is the 
will of my Father, that every one that beholdeth the Son, and believeth on him, 
should have eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day. 6:41The Jews therefore murmured concerning 
him, because he said, I am the bread which came down out of heaven. 6:42And they said, Is not this Jesus, the 
son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? how doth he now say, I am come 
down out of heaven? 6:43Jesus answered and said unto them, 
Murmur not among yourselves. 6:44No man can come to me, except the 
Father that sent me draw him: and I will raise him up in the last day. 6:45It 
is written in the prophets, And they shall all be taught of God. Every one that 
hath heard from the Father, and hath learned, cometh unto me. 6:46Not that any man hath seen the Father, 
save he that is from God, he hath seen the Father. 6:47Verily, verily, I 
say unto you, He that believeth hath eternal life. 6:48I am the bread of 
life. 6:49Your fathers ate the manna in the 
wilderness, and they died. 6:50This is the bread which cometh down out 
of heaven, that a man may eat thereof, and not die. 6:51I am the living 
bread which came down out of heaven: if any man eat of this bread, he shall live 
for ever: yea and the bread which I will give is my flesh, for the life of the 
world. 6:52The Jews therefore strove one with 
another, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? 6:53Jesus therefore 
said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the 
Son of man and drink his blood, ye have not life in yourselves. 6:54He 
that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood hath eternal life: and I will raise 
him up at the last day. 6:55For my flesh is meat indeed, and my 
blood is drink indeed. 6:56He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my 
blood abideth in me, and I in him. 6:57As the living Father sent me, and I 
live because of the Father; so he that eateth me, he also shall live because of 
me. 6:58This is the bread which came down out 
of heaven: not as the fathers ate, and died; he that eateth this bread shall 
live for ever. 6:59These things said he in the synagogue, 
as he taught in Capernaum. 6:60Many therefore of his disciples, when 
the heard this, said, This is a hard saying; who can hear it? 6:61But Jesus knowing in himself that his 
disciples murmured at this, said unto them, Doth this cause you to stumble? 6:62What then if ye should behold 
the Son of man ascending where he was before? 6:63It is the spirit 
that giveth life; the flesh profiteth nothing: the words that I have spoken unto 
you are spirit, are are life. 6:64But there are some of you that believe 
not. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not, and who 
it was that should betray him. 6:65And he said, For this cause have I said 
unto you, that no man can come unto me, except it be given unto him of the 
Father. 6:66Upon this many of his disciples went 
back, and walked no more with him. 6:67Jesus said therefore unto the twelve, 
Would ye also go away? 6:68Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom 
shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life. 6:69And we have 
believed and know that thou art the Holy One of God. 6:70Jesus answered 
them, Did not I choose you the twelve, and one of you is a devil? 6:71Now he spake of Judas the son of 
Simon Iscariot, for he it was that should betray him, being one of the 
twelve. 

7:1And after these things Jesus walked in 
Galilee: for he would not walk in Judaea, because the Jews sought to kill him. 
7:2Now the feast of the Jews, the feast of 
tabernacles, was at hand. 7:3His brethren therefore said unto him, 
Depart hence, and go into Judaea, that thy disciples also may behold thy works 
which thou doest. 7:4For no man doeth anything in secret, and 
himself seeketh to be known openly. If thou doest these things, manifest thyself 
to the world. 7:5For even his brethren did not believe on 
him. 7:6Jesus therefore saith unto them, My time 
is not yet come; but your time is always ready. 7:7The world cannot 
hate you; but me it hateth, because I testify of it, that its works are evil. 7:8Go 
ye up unto the feast: I go not up unto this feast; because my time is not yet 
fulfilled. 7:9And having said these things unto them, 
he abode still in Galilee. 7:10But when his brethren were gone up unto 
the feast, then went he also up, not publicly, but as it were in secret. 7:11The Jews therefore sought him at the 
feast, and said, Where is he? 7:12And there was much murmuring among the 
multitudes concerning him: some said, He is a good man; others said, Not so, but 
he leadeth the multitude astray. 7:13Yet no man spake openly of him for fear 
of the Jews. 7:14But when it was now the midst of the 
feast Jesus went up into the temple, and taught. 7:15The Jews therefore 
marvelled, saying, How knoweth this man letters, having never learned? 7:16Jesus therefore answered them and said, 
My teaching is not mine, but his that sent me. 7:17If any man willeth 
to do his will, he shall know of the teaching, whether it is of God, or 
whether I speak from myself. 7:18He that speaketh from himself seeketh 
his own glory: but he that seeketh the glory of him that sent him, the same is 
true, and no unrighteousness is in him. 7:19Did not Moses give you the law, and 
yet none of you doeth the law? Why seek ye to kill me? 7:20The multitude answered, Thou hast a 
demon: who seeketh to kill thee? 7:21Jesus answered and said unto them, I 
did one work, and ye all marvel because thereof. 7:22Moses hath given 
you circumcision (not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers); and on the 
sabbath ye circumcise a man. 7:23If a man receiveth circumcision on the 
sabbath, that the law of Moses may not be broken; are ye wroth with me, because 
I made a man every whit whole on the sabbath? 7:24Judge not according 
to appearance, but judge righteous judgment. 7:25Some therefore of 
them of Jerusalem said, Is not this he whom they seek to kill? 7:26And lo, he speaketh openly, and they 
say nothing unto him. Can it be that the rulers indeed know that this is the 
Christ? 7:27Howbeit we know this man whence he is: 
but when the Christ cometh, no one knoweth whence he is. 7:28Jesus therefore 
cried in the temple, teaching and saying, Ye both know me, and know whence I am; 
and I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom ye know not. 7:29I 
know him; because I am from him, and he sent me. 7:30They sought 
therefore to take him: and no man laid his hand on him, because his hour was not 
yet come. 7:31But of the multitude many believed on 
him; and they said, When the Christ shall come, will he do more signs than those 
which this man hath done? 7:32The Pharisees heard the multitude 
murmuring these things concerning him; and the chief priests and the Pharisees 
sent officers to take him. 7:33Jesus therefore said, Yet a little 
while am I with you, and I go unto him that sent me. 7:34Ye shall seek me, 
and shall not find me: and where I am, ye cannot come. 7:35The Jews therefore 
said among themselves, Whither will this man go that we shall not find him? will 
he go unto the Dispersion among the Greeks, and teach the Greeks? 7:36What is this word that he said, Ye 
shall seek me, and shall not find me; and where I am, ye cannot come? 7:37Now on the last day, the great 
day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let 
him come unto me and drink. 7:38He that believeth on me, as the 
scripture hath said, from within him shall flow rivers of living water. 7:39But this spake he of the Spirit, which 
they that believed on him were to receive: for the Spirit was not yet 
given; because Jesus was not yet glorified. 7:40Some of the 
multitude therefore, when they heard these words, said, This is of a truth the 
prophet. 7:41Others said, This is the Christ. But 
some said, What, doth the Christ come out of Galilee? 7:42Hath not the 
scripture said that the Christ cometh of the seed of David, and from Bethlehem, 
the village where David was? 7:43So there arose a division in the 
multitude because of him. 7:44And some of them would have taken him; 
but no man laid hands on him. 7:45The officers therefore came to the 
chief priests and Pharisees; and they said unto them, Why did ye not bring him? 
7:46The officers answered, Never man so 
spake. 7:47The Pharisees therefore answered them, 
Are ye also led astray? 7:48Hath any of the rulers believed on him, 
or of the Pharisees? 7:49But this multitude that knoweth not the 
law are accursed. 7:50Nicodemus saith unto them (he that came 
to him before, being one of them), 7:51Doth our law judge a man, except it 
first hear from himself and know what he doeth? 7:52They answered and 
said unto him, Art thou also of Galilee? Search, and see that out of Galilee 
ariseth no prophet. 

7:53And they went every man unto his own 
house: 
8:1but Jesus went unto the mount of Olives. 
8:2And early in the morning he came again 
into the temple, and all the people came unto him; and he sat down, and taught 
them. 8:3And the scribes and the Pharisees bring 
a woman taken in adultery; and having set her in the midst, 8:4they say unto him, 
Teacher, this woman hath been taken in adultery, in the very act. 8:5Now 
in the law Moses commanded us to stone such: what then sayest thou of her? 8:6And 
this they said, trying him, that they might have whereof to accuse him. 
But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground. 8:7But 
when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He 
that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. 8:8And 
again he stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground. 8:9And 
they, when they heard it, went out one by one, beginning from the eldest, 
even unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman, where she 
was, in the midst. 8:10And Jesus lifted up himself, and said 
unto her, Woman, where are they? did no man condemn thee? 8:11And she said, No 
man, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn thee: go thy way; from 
henceforth sin no more. 8:12Again therefore Jesus spake unto them, 
saying, I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in the 
darkness, but shall have the light of life. 8:13The Pharisees 
therefore said unto him, Thou bearest witness of thyself; thy witness is not 
true. 8:14Jesus answered and said unto them, Even 
if I bear witness of myself, my witness is true; for I know whence I came, and 
whither I go; but ye know not whence I come, or whither I go. 8:15Ye 
judge after the flesh; I judge no man. 8:16Yea and if I judge, my judgment is 
true; for I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me. 8:17Yea and in your law 
it is written, that the witness of two men is true. 8:18I am he that 
beareth witness of myself, and the Father that sent me beareth witness of me. 8:19They said therefore unto him, Where is 
thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye know neither me, nor my Father: if ye knew me, ye 
would know my Father also. 8:20These words spake he in the treasury, 
as he taught in the temple: and no man took him; because his hour was not yet 
come. 8:21He said therefore again unto them, I go 
away, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sin: whither I go, ye cannot 
come. 8:22The Jews therefore said, Will he kill 
himself, that he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come? 8:23And he said unto 
them, Ye are from beneath; I am from above: ye are of this world; I am not of 
this world. 8:24I said therefore unto you, that ye 
shall die in your sins: for except ye believe that I am he, ye shall die 
in your sins. 8:25They said therefore unto him, Who art 
thou? Jesus said unto them, Even that which I have also spoken unto you from the 
beginning. 8:26I have many things to speak and to 
judge concerning you: howbeit he that sent me is true; and the things which I 
heard from him, these speak I unto the world. 8:27They perceived not 
that he spake to them of the Father. 8:28Jesus therefore said, When ye have 
lifted up the Son of man, then shall ye know that I am he, and 
that I do nothing of myself, but as the Father taught me, I speak these 
things. 8:29And he that sent me is with me; he hath 
not left me alone; for I do always the things that are pleasing to him. 8:30As 
he spake these things, many believed on him. 8:31Jesus therefore 
said to those Jews that had believed him, If ye abide in my word, then 
are ye truly my disciples; 8:32and ye shall know the truth, and the 
truth shall make you free. 8:33They answered unto him, We are 
Abraham's seed, and have never yet been in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, 
Ye shall be made free? 8:34Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I 
say unto you, Every one that committeth sin is the bondservant of sin. 8:35And the bondservant abideth not in the 
house for ever: the son abideth for ever. 8:36If therefore the 
Son shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. 8:37I know that ye are 
Abraham's seed: yet ye seek to kill me, because my word hath not free course in 
you. 8:38I speak the things which I have seen 
with my Father: and ye also do the things which ye heard from your 
father. 8:39They answered and said unto him, Our 
father is Abraham. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye 
would do the works of Abraham. 8:40But now ye seek to kill me, a man that 
hath told you the truth, which I heard from God: this did not Abraham. 8:41Ye 
do the works of your father. They said unto him, We were not born of 
fornication; we have one Father, even God. 8:42Jesus said unto 
them, If God were your Father, ye would love me: for I came forth and am come 
from God; for neither have I come of myself, but he sent me. 8:43Why do ye not 
understand my speech? Even because ye cannot hear my word. 8:44Ye 
are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father it is your 
will to do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and standeth not in the truth, 
because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his 
own: for he is a liar, and the father thereof. 8:45But because I say 
the truth, ye believe me not. 8:46Which of you convicteth me of sin? If I 
say truth, why do ye not believe me? 8:47He that is of God heareth the words of 
God: for this cause ye hear them not, because ye are not of God. 8:48The Jews answered and said unto him, 
Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a demon? 8:49Jesus answered, I 
have not a demon; but I honor my Father, and ye dishonor me. 8:50But I seek not mine 
own glory: there is one that seeketh and judgeth. 8:51Verily, verily, I 
say unto you, If a man keep my word, he shall never see death. 8:52The Jews said unto him, Now we know 
that thou hast a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets; and thou sayest, If a 
man keep my word, he shall never taste of death. 8:53Art thou greater 
than our father Abraham, who died? and the prophets died: whom makest thou 
thyself? 8:54Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my 
glory is nothing: it is my Father that glorifieth me; of whom ye say, that he is 
your God; 8:55and ye have not known him: but I know 
him; and if I should say, I know him not, I shall be like unto you, a liar: but 
I know him, and keep his word. 8:56Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my 
day; and he saw it, and was glad. 8:57The Jews therefore said unto him, Thou 
art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham? 8:58Jesus said unto 
them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was born, I am. 8:59They took up stones therefore to cast 
at him: but Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple. 

9:1And as he passed by, he saw a man blind 
from his birth. 9:2And his disciples asked him, saying, 
Rabbi, who sinned, this man, or his parents, that he should be born blind? 9:3Jesus answered, Neither did this man 
sin, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. 
9:4We must work the works of him that sent 
me, while it is day: the night cometh, when no man can work. 9:5When I am in the 
world, I am the light of the world. 9:6When he had thus spoken, he spat on the 
ground, and made clay of the spittle, and anointed his eyes with the clay, 9:7and 
said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam (which is by interpretation, 
Sent). He went away therefore, and washed, and came seeing. 9:8The neighbors 
therefore, and they that saw him aforetime, that he was a beggar, said, Is not 
this he that sat and begged? 9:9Others said, It is he: others said, No, 
but he is like him. He said, I am he. 9:10They said therefore 
unto him, How then were thine eyes opened? 9:11He answered, The 
man that is called Jesus made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go 
to Siloam, and wash: so I went away and washed, and I received sight. 9:12And they said unto him, Where is he? He 
saith, I know not. 9:13They bring to the Pharisees him that 
aforetime was blind. 9:14Now it was the sabbath on the day when 
Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes. 9:15Again therefore the 
Pharisees also asked him how he received his sight. And he said unto them, He 
put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and I see. 9:16Some therefore of 
the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, because he keepeth not the 
sabbath. But others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such signs? And 
there was division among them. 9:17They say therefore unto the blind man 
again, What sayest thou of him, in that he opened thine eyes? And he said, He is 
a prophet. 9:18The Jews therefore did not believe 
concerning him, that he had been blind, and had received his sight, until they 
called the parents of him that had received his sight, 9:19and asked them, 
saying, Is this your son, who ye say was born blind? How then doth he now see? 
9:20His parents answered and said, We know 
that this is our son, and that he was born blind: 9:21but how he now 
seeth, we know not; or who opened his eyes, we know not: ask him; he is of age; 
he shall speak for himself. 9:22These things said his parents, because 
they feared the Jews: for the Jews had agreed already, that if any man should 
confess him to be Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue. 9:23Therefore said his parents, He is of 
age; ask him. 9:24So they called a second time the man 
that was blind, and said unto him, Give glory to God: we know that this man is a 
sinner. 9:25He therefore answered, Whether he is a 
sinner, I know not: one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see. 9:26They said therefore unto him, What did 
he to thee? How opened he thine eyes? 9:27He answered them, I told you even now, 
and ye did not hear; wherefore would ye hear it again? would ye also become his 
disciples? 9:28And they reviled him, and said, Thou 
art his disciple; but we are disciples of Moses. 9:29We know that God 
hath spoken unto Moses: but as for this man, we know not whence he is. 9:30The man answered and said unto them, 
Why, herein is the marvel, that ye know not whence he is, and yet he 
opened mine eyes. 9:31We know that God heareth not sinners: 
but if any man be a worshipper of God, and do his will, him he heareth. 9:32Since the world began it was never 
heard that any one opened the eyes of a man born blind. 9:33If this man were 
not from God, he could do nothing. 9:34They answered and said unto him, Thou 
wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out. 9:35Jesus heard that they had cast him out; 
and finding him, he said, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? 9:36He 
answered and said, And who is he, Lord, that I may believe on him? 9:37Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both 
seen him, and he it is that speaketh with thee. 9:38And he said, Lord, 
I believe. And he worshipped him. 9:39And Jesus said, For judgment came I 
into this world, that they that see not may see; and that they that see may 
become blind. 9:40Those of the Pharisees who were with 
him heard these things, and said unto him, Are we also blind? 9:41Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, 
ye would have no sin: but now ye say, We see: your sin remaineth. 

10:1Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that 
entereth not by the door into the fold of the sheep, but climbeth up some other 
way, the same is a thief and a robber. 10:2But he that entereth in by the door is 
the shepherd of the sheep. 10:3To him the porter openeth; and the 
sheep hear his voice: and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them 
out. 10:4When he hath put forth all his own, he 
goeth before them, and the sheep follow him: for they know his voice. 10:5And a stranger will they not follow, 
but will flee from him: for they know not the voice of strangers. 10:6This parable spake Jesus unto them: but 
they understood not what things they were which he spake unto them. 10:7Jesus therefore said unto them again, 
Verily, verily, I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep. 10:8All that came 
before me are thieves and robbers: but the sheep did not hear them. 10:9I 
am the door; by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and 
go out, and shall find pasture. 10:10The thief cometh not, but that he may 
steal, and kill, and destroy: I came that they may have life, and may have 
it abundantly. 10:11I am the good shepherd: the good 
shepherd layeth down his life for the sheep. 10:12He that is a 
hireling, and not a shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, beholdeth the wolf 
coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth, and the wolf snatcheth them, and 
scattereth them: 10:13he fleeth because he is a 
hireling, and careth not for the sheep. 10:14I am the good shepherd; and I know 
mine own, and mine own know me, 10:15even as the Father knoweth me, and I 
know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep. 10:16And other sheep I 
have, which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my 
voice: and they shall become one flock, one shepherd. 10:17Therefore doth the 
Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I may take it again. 10:18No one taketh it away from me, but I 
lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it 
again. This commandment received I from my Father. 10:19There arose a 
division again among the Jews because of these words. 10:20And many of them 
said, He hath a demon, and is mad; why hear ye him? 10:21Others said, These 
are not the sayings of one possessed with a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of 
the blind? 10:22And it was the feast of the dedication 
at Jerusalem: 10:23it was winter; and Jesus was walking 
in the temple in Solomon's porch. 10:24The Jews therefore came round about 
him, and said unto him, How long dost thou hold us in suspense? If thou art the 
Christ, tell us plainly. 10:25Jesus answered them, I told you, and 
ye believe not: the works that I do in my Father's name, these bear witness of 
me. 10:26But ye believe not, because ye are not 
of my sheep. 10:27My sheep hear my voice, and I know 
them, and they follow me: 10:28and I give unto them eternal life; and 
they shall never perish, and no one shall snatch them out of my hand. 10:29My Father, who hath given them 
unto me, is greater than all; and no one is able to snatch them out of 
the Father's hand. 10:30I and the Father are one. 10:31The Jews took up stones again to stone 
him. 10:32Jesus answered them, Many good works 
have I showed you from the Father; for which of those works do ye stone me? 10:33The Jews answered him, For a good work 
we stone thee not, but for blasphemy; and because that thou, being a man, makest 
thyself God. 10:34Jesus answered them, Is it not written 
in your law, I said, ye are gods? 10:35If he called them gods, unto whom the 
word of God came (and the scripture cannot be broken), 10:36say ye of him, 
whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest; because I 
said, I am the Son of God? 10:37If I do not the works of my Father, 
believe me not. 10:38But if I do them, though ye believe 
not me, believe the works: that ye may know and understand that the Father is in 
me, and I in the Father. 10:39They sought again to take him: and he 
went forth out of their hand. 10:40And he went away again beyond the 
Jordan into the place where John was at the first baptizing; and there be abode. 
10:41And many came unto him; and they said, 
John indeed did no sign: but all things whatsoever John spake of this man were 
true. 10:42And many believed on him there. 

11:1Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus of 
Bethany, of the village of Mary and her sister Martha. 11:2And it was that 
Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, 
whose brother Lazarus was sick. 11:3The sisters therefore sent unto him, 
saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick. 11:4But when Jesus 
heard it, he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, 
that the Son of God may be glorified thereby. 11:5Now Jesus loved 
Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus. 11:6When therefore he heard that he was 
sick, he abode at that time two days in the place where he was. 11:7Then after this he saith to the 
disciples, Let us go into Judaea again. 11:8The disciples say unto him, Rabbi, the 
Jews were but now seeking to stone thee; and goest thou thither again? 11:9Jesus answered, Are there not twelve 
hours in the day? If a man walk in the day, he stumbleth not, because he seeth 
the light of this world. 11:10But if a man walk in the night, he 
stumbleth, because the light is not in him. 11:11These things spake 
he: and after this he saith unto them, Our friend Lazarus is fallen asleep; but 
I go, that I may awake him out of sleep. 11:12The disciples 
therefore said unto him, Lord, if he is fallen asleep, he will recover. 11:13Now Jesus had spoken of his death: but 
they thought that he spake of taking rest in sleep. 11:14Then Jesus 
therefore said unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead. 11:15And I am glad for 
your sakes that I was not there, to the intent ye may believe; nevertheless let 
us go unto him. 11:16Thomas therefore, who is called 
Didymus, said unto his fellow-disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with 
him. 11:17So when Jesus came, he found that he 
had been in the tomb four days already. 11:18Now Bethany was nigh unto Jerusalem, 
about fifteen furlongs off; 11:19and many of the Jews had come to 
Martha and Mary, to console them concerning their brother. 11:20Martha therefore, 
when she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him: but Mary still sat in 
the house. 11:21Martha therefore said unto Jesus, 
Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. 11:22And even now I 
know that, whatsoever thou shalt ask of God, God will give thee. 11:23Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother 
shall rise again. 11:24Martha saith unto him, I know that he 
shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day. 11:25Jesus said unto 
her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth on me, though he 
die, yet shall he live; 11:26and whosoever liveth and believeth on 
me shall never die. Believest thou this? 11:27She saith unto 
him, Yea, Lord: I have believed that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, 
even he that cometh into the world. 11:28And when she had 
said this, she went away, and called Mary her sister secretly, saying, The 
Teacher is her, and calleth thee. 11:29And she, when she heard it, arose 
quickly, and went unto him. 11:30(Now Jesus was not yet come into the 
village, but was still in the place where Martha met him.) 11:31The Jews then who 
were with her in the house, and were consoling her, when they saw Mary, that she 
rose up quickly and went out, followed her, supposing that she was going unto 
the tomb to weep there. 11:32Mary therefore, when she came where 
Jesus was, and saw him, fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou 
hadst been here, my brother had not died. 11:33When Jesus 
therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping who came with her, 
he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled, 11:34and said, Where 
have ye laid him? They say unto him, Lord, come and see. 11:35Jesus wept. 11:36The Jews therefore said, Behold how he 
loved him! 11:37But some of them said, Could not this 
man, who opened the eyes of him that was blind, have caused that this man also 
should not die? 11:38Jesus therefore again groaning in 
himself cometh to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone lay against it. 11:39Jesus saith, Take ye away the stone. 
Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time the 
body decayeth; for he hath been dead four days. 11:40Jesus saith unto 
her, Said I not unto thee, that, if thou believedst, thou shouldest see the 
glory of God? 11:41So they took away the stone. And Jesus 
lifted up his eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou heardest me. 11:42And I knew that thou hearest me 
always: but because of the multitude that standeth around I said it, that they 
may believe that thou didst send me. 11:43And when he had thus spoken, he cried 
with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth. 11:44He that was dead came forth, bound 
hand and foot with grave-clothes; and his face was bound about with a napkin. 
Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go. 11:45Many therefore of 
the Jews, who came to Mary and beheld that which he did, believed on him. 11:46But some of them went away to the 
Pharisees, and told them the things which Jesus had done. 11:47The chief priests 
therefore and the Pharisees gathered a council, and said, What do we? for this 
man doeth many signs. 11:48If we let him thus alone, all men will 
believe on him: and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our 
nation. 11:49But a certain one of them, Caiaphas, 
being high priest that year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all, 11:50nor do ye take account that it is 
expedient for you that one man should die for the people, and that the whole 
nation perish not. 11:51Now this he said not of himself: but, 
being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for the nation; 
11:52and not for the nation only, but that 
he might also gather together into one the children of God that are scattered 
abroad. 11:53So from that day forth they took 
counsel that they might put him to death. 11:54Jesus therefore 
walked no more openly among the Jews, but departed thence into the country near 
to the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim; and there he tarried with the 
disciples. 11:55Now the passover of the Jews was at 
hand: and many went up to Jerusalem out of the country before the passover, to 
purify themselves. 11:56They sought therefore for Jesus, and 
spake one with another, as they stood in the temple, What think ye? That he will 
not come to the feast? 11:57Now the chief priests and the 
Pharisees had given commandment, that, if any man knew where he was, he should 
show it, that they might take him. 

12:1Jesus therefore six days before the 
passover came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus raised from the dead. 12:2So 
they made him a supper there: and Martha served; but Lazarus was one of them 
that sat at meat with him. 12:3Mary therefore took a pound of ointment 
of pure nard, very precious, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet 
with her hair: and the house was filled with the odor of the ointment. 12:4But Judas Iscariot, one of his 
disciples, that should betray him, saith, 12:5Why was not this 
ointment sold for three hundred shillings, and given to the poor? 12:6Now this he said, not because he cared 
for the poor; but because he was a thief, and having the bag took away what was 
put therein. 12:7Jesus therefore said, Suffer her to 
keep it against the day of my burying. 12:8For the poor ye have always with you; 
but me ye have not always. 12:9The common people therefore of the Jews 
learned that he was there: and they came, not for Jesus' sake only, but that 
they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead. 12:10But the chief priests took counsel 
that they might put Lazarus also to death; 12:11because that by 
reason of him many of the Jews went away, and believed on Jesus. 12:12On the morrow a great multitude that 
had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, 12:13took the branches of the palm trees, 
and went forth to meet him, and cried out, Hosanna: Blessed is he that 
cometh in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. 12:14And Jesus, having 
found a young ass, sat thereon; as it is written, 12:15Fear not, daughter 
of Zion: behold, thy King cometh, sitting on an ass's colt. 12:16These things 
understood not his disciples at the first: but when Jesus was glorified, then 
remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done 
these things unto him. 12:17The multitude therefore that was with 
him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb, and raised him from the dead, bare 
witness. 12:18For this cause also the multitude went 
and met him, for that they heard that he had done this sign. 12:19The Pharisees therefore said among 
themselves, Behold how ye prevail nothing: lo, the world is gone after him. 12:20Now there were certain Greeks among 
those that went up to worship at the feast: 12:21these therefore 
came to Philip, who was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Sir, we 
would see Jesus. 12:22Philip cometh and telleth Andrew: 
Andrew cometh, and Philip, and they tell Jesus. 12:23And Jesus 
answereth them, saying, The hour is come, that the Son of man should be 
glorified. 12:24Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except 
a grain of wheat fall into the earth and die, it abideth by itself alone; but if 
it die, it beareth much fruit. 12:25He that loveth his life loseth it; and 
he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal. 12:26If any man serve me, let him follow 
me; and where I am, there shall also my servant be: if any man serve me, him 
will the Father honor. 12:27Now is my soul troubled; and what 
shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this cause came I unto this 
hour. 12:28Father, glorify thy name. There came 
therefore a voice out of heaven, saying, I have both glorified it, and 
will glorify it again. 12:29The multitude therefore, that stood 
by, and heard it, said that it had thundered: others said, An angel hath spoken 
to him. 12:30Jesus answered and said, This voice 
hath not come for my sake, but for your sakes. 12:31Now is the 
judgment of this world: now shall the prince of this world be cast out. 12:32And I, if I be lifted up from the 
earth, will draw all men unto myself. 12:33But this he said, signifying by what 
manner of death he should die. 12:34The multitude therefore answered him, 
We have heard out of the law that the Christ abideth for ever: and how sayest 
thou, The Son of man must be lifted up? who is this Son of man? 12:35Jesus therefore said unto them, Yet a 
little while is the light among you. Walk while ye have the light, that darkness 
overtake you not: and he that walketh in the darkness knoweth not whither he 
goeth. 12:36While ye have the light, believe on 
the light, that ye may become sons of light. These things spake Jesus, and he 
departed and hid himself from them. 12:37But though he had done so many signs 
before them, yet they believed not on him: 12:38that the word of 
Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake, 
Lord, who hath believed our report? 
And to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed? 
12:39For this cause they could not believe, 
for that Isaiah said again, 
12:40He hath blinded their eyes, and he 
hardened their heart; 
Lest they should see with their eyes, and perceive with their heart, 
And should turn, 
And I should heal them. 
12:41These things said Isaiah, because he 
saw his glory; and he spake of him. 12:42Nevertheless even of the rulers many 
believed on him; but because of the Pharisees they did not confess it, 
lest they should be put out of the synagogue: 12:43for they loved the 
glory that is of men more than the glory that is of God. 12:44And Jesus cried and said, He that 
believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me. 12:45And he that beholdeth me beholdeth him 
that sent me. 12:46I am come a light into the world, that 
whosoever believeth on me may not abide in the darkness. 12:47And if any man 
hear my sayings, and keep them not, I judge him not: for I came not to judge the 
world, but to save the world. 12:48He that rejecteth me, and receiveth 
not my sayings, hath one that judgeth him: the word that I spake, the same shall 
judge him in the last day. 12:49For I spake not from myself; but the 
Father that sent me, he hath given me a commandment, what I should say, and what 
I should speak. 12:50And I know that his commandment is 
life eternal: the things therefore which I speak, even as the Father hath said 
unto me, so I speak. 

13:1Now before the feast of the passover, 
Jesus knowing that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world 
unto his Father, having loved his own that were in the world, he loved them unto 
the end. 13:2And during supper, the devil having 
already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him, 
13:3Jesus, knowing that the Father 
had given all the things into his hands, and that he came forth from God, and 
goeth unto God, 13:4riseth from supper, and layeth aside 
his garments; and he took a towel, and girded himself. 13:5Then he poureth 
water into the basin, and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them 
with the towel wherewith he was girded. 13:6So he cometh to Simon Peter. He saith 
unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? 13:7Jesus answered and said unto him, What 
I do thou knowest not now; but thou shalt understand hereafter. 13:8Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never 
wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. 
13:9Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not 
my feet only, but also my hands and my head. 13:10Jesus saith to 
him, He that is bathed needeth not save to wash his feet, but is clean every 
whit: and ye are clean, but not all. 13:11For he knew him that should betray 
him; therefore said he, Ye are not all clean. 13:12So when he had 
washed their feet, and taken his garments, and sat down again, he said unto 
them, Know ye what I have done to you? 13:13Ye call me, Teacher, and, Lord: and ye 
say well; for so I am. 13:14If I then, the Lord and the Teacher, 
have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another's feet. 13:15For I have given you an example, that 
ye also should do as I have done to you. 13:16Verily, verily, I 
say unto you, a servant is not greater than his lord; neither one that is sent 
greater than he that sent him. 13:17If ye know these things, blessed are 
ye if ye do them. 13:18I speak not of you all: I know whom I 
have chosen: but that the scripture may be fulfilled: He that eateth my bread 
lifted up his heel against me. 13:19From henceforth I tell you before it 
come to pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye may believe that I am he. 
13:20Verily, verily, I say unto you, he 
that receiveth whomsoever I send receiveth me; and he that receiveth me 
receiveth him that sent me. 13:21When Jesus had thus said, he was 
troubled in the spirit, and testified, and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, 
that one of you shall betray me. 13:22The disciples looked one on another, 
doubting of whom he spake. 13:23There was at the table reclining in 
Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved. 13:24Simon Peter 
therefore beckoneth to him, and saith unto him, Tell us who it is of whom 
he speaketh. 13:25He leaning back, as he was, on Jesus' 
breast saith unto him, Lord, who is it? 13:26Jesus therefore answereth, He it is, 
for whom I shall dip the sop, and give it him. So when he had dipped the sop, he 
taketh and giveth it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. 13:27And after the sop, then entered Satan 
into him. Jesus therefore saith unto him, What thou doest, do quickly. 13:28Now no man at the table knew for what 
intent he spake this unto him. 13:29For some thought, because Judas had 
the bag, that Jesus said unto him, Buy what things we have need of for the 
feast; or, that he should give something to the poor. 13:30He then having 
received the sop went out straightway: and it was night. 13:31When therefore he 
was gone out, Jesus saith, Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified 
in him; 13:32and God shall glorify him in himself, 
and straightway shall he glorify him. 13:33Little children, yet a little while I 
am with you. Ye shall seek me: and as I said unto the Jews, Whither I go, ye 
cannot come; so now I say unto you. 13:34A new commandment I give unto you, 
that ye love one another; even as I have loved you, that ye also love one 
another. 13:35By this shall all men know that ye are 
my disciples, if ye have love one to another. 13:36Simon Peter saith 
unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered, Whither I go, thou canst not 
follow now; but thou shalt follow afterwards. 13:37Peter saith unto 
him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee even now? I will lay down my life for thee. 
13:38Jesus answereth, Wilt thou lay down 
thy life for me? Verily, verily, I say unto thee, The cock shall not crow, till 
thou hast denied me thrice. 

14:1Let not your heart be troubled: believe 
in God, believe also in me. 14:2In my Father's house are many mansions; 
if it were not so, I would have told you; for I go to prepare a place for you. 
14:3And if I go and prepare a place for 
you, I come again, and will receive you unto myself; that where I am, 
there ye may be also. 14:4And whither I go, ye know the way. 14:5Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know 
not whither thou goest; how know we the way? 14:6Jesus saith unto 
him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life: no one cometh unto the Father, 
but by me. 14:7If ye had known me, ye would have known 
my Father also: from henceforth ye know him, and have seen him. 14:8Philip saith unto him, Lord, show us 
the Father, and it sufficeth us. 14:9Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so 
long time with you, and dost thou not know me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath 
seen the Father; how sayest thou, Show us the Father? 14:10Believest thou not 
that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? the words that I say unto you I 
speak not from myself: but the Father abiding in me doeth his works. 14:11Believe me that I am in the Father, 
and the Father in me: or else believe me for the very works' sake. 14:12Verily, verily, I say unto you, he 
that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater 
works than these shall he do; because I go unto the Father. 14:13And whatsoever ye shall ask in my 
name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. 14:14If ye shall ask anything in my name, 
that will I do. 14:15If ye love me, ye will keep my 
commandments. 14:16And I will pray the Father, and he 
shall give you another Comforter, that he may be with you for ever, 14:17even the Spirit of truth: whom 
the world cannot receive; for it beholdeth him not, neither knoweth him: ye know 
him; for he abideth with you, and shall be in you. 14:18I will not leave 
you desolate: I come unto you. 14:19Yet a little while, and the world 
beholdeth me no more; but ye behold me: because I live, ye shall live also. 14:20In that day ye shall know that I am in 
my Father, and ye in me, and I in you. 14:21He that hath my commandments, and 
keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of 
my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself unto him. 14:22Judas (not Iscariot) saith unto him, 
Lord, what is come to pass that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto 
the world? 14:23Jesus answered and said unto him, If a 
man love me, he will keep my word: and my Father will love him, and we will come 
unto him, and make our abode with him. 14:24He that loveth me not keepeth not my 
words: and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. 14:25These things have I spoken unto you, 
while yet abiding with you. 14:26But the Comforter, even the 
Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all 
things, and bring to your remembrance all that I said unto you. 14:27Peace I leave with you; my peace I 
give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be 
troubled, neither let it be fearful. 14:28Ye heard how I said to you, I go away, 
and I come unto you. If ye loved me, ye would have rejoiced, because I go unto 
the Father: for the Father is greater than I. 14:29And now I have 
told you before it come to pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye may believe. 
14:30I will no more speak much with you, 
for the prince of the world cometh: and he hath nothing in me; 14:31but that the world may know that I 
love the Father, and as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do. Arise, let 
us go hence. 

15:1I am the true vine, and my Father is 
the husbandman. 15:2Every branch in me that beareth not 
fruit, he taketh it away: and every branch that beareth fruit, he 
cleanseth it, that it may bear more fruit. 15:3Already ye are 
clean because of the word which I have spoken unto you. 15:4Abide in me, and I 
in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; 
so neither can ye, except ye abide in me. 15:5I am the vine, ye 
are the branches: He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same beareth much 
fruit: for apart from me ye can do nothing. 15:6If a man abide not 
in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered; and they gather them, and 
cast them into the fire, and they are burned. 15:7If ye abide in me, 
and my words abide in you, ask whatsoever ye will, and it shall be done unto 
you. 15:8Herein is my Father glorified, that ye 
bear much fruit; and so shall ye be my disciples. 15:9Even as the Father 
hath loved me, I also have loved you: abide ye in my love. 15:10If ye keep my 
commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father's 
commandments, and abide in his love. 15:11These things have I spoken unto you, 
that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be made full. 15:12This is my commandment, that ye love 
one another, even as I have loved you. 15:13Greater love hath no man than this, 
that a man lay down his life for his friends. 15:14Ye are my friends, 
if ye do the things which I command you. 15:15No longer do I 
call you servants; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have 
called you friends; for all things that I heard from my Father, I have made 
known unto you. 15:16Ye did not choose me, but I chose you, 
and appointed you, that ye should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit 
should abide: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give 
it you. 15:17These things I command you, that ye 
may love one another. 15:18If the world hateth you, ye know that 
it hath hated me before it hated you. 15:19If ye were of the 
world, the world would love its own: but because ye are not of the world, but I 
chose you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. 15:20Remember the word 
that I said unto you, A servant is not greater than his lord. If they persecuted 
me, they will also persecute you; if they kept my word, they will keep yours 
also. 15:21But all these things will they do unto 
you for my name's sake, because they know not him that sent me. 15:22If I had not come and spoken unto 
them, they had not had sin: but now they have no excuse for their sin. 15:23He that hateth me hateth my Father 
also. 15:24If I had not done among them the works 
which none other did, they had not had sin: but now have they both seen and 
hated both me and my Father. 15:25But this cometh to pass, that 
the word may be fulfilled that is written in their law, They hated me without a 
cause. 15:26But when the Comforter is come, whom I 
will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which 
proceedeth from the Father, he shall bear witness of me: 15:27and ye also bear 
witness, because ye have been with me from the beginning. 

16:1These things have I spoken unto you, 
that ye should not be caused to stumble. 16:2They shall put you out of the 
synagogues: yea, the hour cometh, that whosoever killeth you shall think that he 
offereth service unto God. 16:3And these things will they do, because 
they have not known the Father, nor me. 16:4But these things have I spoken unto 
you, that when their hour is come, ye may remember them, how that I told you. 
And these things I said not unto you from the beginning, because I was with you. 
16:5But now I go unto him that sent me; and 
none of you asketh me, Whither goest thou? 16:6But because I have 
spoken these things unto you, sorrow hath filled your heart. 16:7Nevertheless I tell 
you the truth: It is expedient for you that I go away; for if I go not away, the 
Comforter will not come unto you; but if I go, I will send him unto you. 16:8And he, when he is come, will convict 
the world in respect of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment: 16:9of 
sin, because they believe not on me; 16:10of righteousness, because I go to the 
Father, and ye behold me no more; 16:11of judgment, because the prince of 
this world hath been judged. 16:12I have yet many things to say unto 
you, but ye cannot bear them now. 16:13Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, 
is come, he shall guide you into all the truth: for he shall not speak from 
himself; but what things soever he shall hear, these shall he speak: and 
he shall declare unto you the things that are to come. 16:14He shall glorify 
me: for he shall take of mine, and shall declare it unto you. 16:15All things whatsoever the Father hath 
are mine: therefore said I, that he taketh of mine, and shall declare it 
unto you. 16:16A little while, and ye behold me no 
more; and again a little while, and ye shall see me. 16:17Some of his 
disciples therefore said one to another, What is this that he saith unto us, A 
little while, and ye behold me not; and again a little while, and ye shall see 
me: and, Because I go to the Father? 16:18They said therefore, What is this that 
he saith, A little while? We know not what he saith. 16:19Jesus perceived 
that they were desirous to ask him, and he said unto them, Do ye inquire among 
yourselves concerning this, that I said, A little while, and ye behold me not, 
and again a little while, and ye shall see me? 16:20Verily, verily, I 
say unto you, that ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice: ye 
shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy. 16:21A woman when she is in travail hath 
sorrow, because her hour is come: but when she is delivered of the child, she 
remembereth no more the anguish, for the joy that a man is born into the world. 
16:22And ye therefore now have sorrow: but 
I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no one taketh 
away from you. 16:23And in that day ye shall ask me no 
question. Verily, verily, I say unto you, if ye shall ask anything of the 
Father, he will give it you in my name. 16:24Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my 
name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be made full. 16:25These things have I spoken unto you in 
dark sayings: the hour cometh, when I shall no more speak unto you in dark 
sayings, but shall tell you plainly of the Father. 16:26In that day ye 
shall ask in my name: and I say not unto you, that I will pray the Father for 
you; 16:27for the Father himself loveth you, 
because ye have loved me, and have believed that I came forth from the Father. 
16:28I came out from the Father, and am 
come into the world: again, I leave the world, and go unto the Father. 16:29His disciples say, Lo, now speakest 
thou plainly, and speakest no dark saying. 16:30Now know we that 
thou knowest all things, and needest not that any man should ask thee: by this 
we believe that thou camest forth from God. 16:31Jesus answered 
them, Do ye now believe? 16:32Behold, the hour cometh, yea, is come, 
that ye shall be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone: and 
yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. 16:33These things have 
I spoken unto you, that in me ye may have peace. In the world ye have 
tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world. 

17:1These things spake Jesus; and lifting 
up his eyes to heaven, he said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that 
the son may glorify thee: 17:2even as thou gavest him authority over 
all flesh, that to all whom thou hast given him, he should give eternal life. 17:3And this is life eternal, that they 
should know thee the only true God, and him whom thou didst send, even 
Jesus Christ. 17:4I glorified thee on the earth, having 
accomplished the work which thou hast given me to do. 17:5And now, Father, 
glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before 
the world was. 17:6I manifested thy name unto the men whom 
thou gavest me out of the world: thine they were, and thou gavest them to me; 
and they have kept thy word. 17:7Now they know that all things 
whatsoever thou hast given me are from thee: 17:8for the words which 
thou gavest me I have given unto them; and they received them, and knew 
of a truth that I came forth from thee, and they believed that thou didst send 
me. 17:9I pray for them: I pray not for the 
world, but for those whom thou hast given me; for they are thine: 17:10and all things that are mine are 
thine, and thine are mine: and I am glorified in them. 17:11And I am no more 
in the world, and these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep 
them in thy name which thou hast given me, that they may be one, even as we 
are. 17:12While I was with them, I kept them in 
thy name which thou hast given me: and I guarded them, and not one of them 
perished, but the son of perdition; that the scripture might be fulfilled. 17:13But now I come to thee; and these 
things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy made full in themselves. 
17:14I have given them thy word; and the 
world hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the 
world. 17:15I pray not that thou shouldest take 
them from the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil one. 
17:16They are not of the world even as I am 
not of the world. 17:17Sanctify them in the truth: thy word 
is truth. 17:18As thou didst send me into the world, 
even so sent I them into the world. 17:19And for their sakes I sanctify myself, 
that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth. 17:20Neither for these 
only do I pray, but for them also that believe on me through their word; 17:21that they may all be one; even as 
thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be in us: that 
the world may believe that thou didst send me. 17:22And the glory 
which thou hast given me I have given unto them; that they may be one, even as 
we are one; 17:23I in them, and thou in me, that they 
may be perfected into one; that the world may know that thou didst send me, and 
lovedst them, even as thou lovedst me. 17:24Father, I desire that they also whom 
thou hast given me be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory, which 
thou hast given me: for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world. 17:25O righteous Father, the world knew 
thee not, but I knew thee; and these knew that thou didst send me; 17:26and I made known unto them thy name, 
and will make it known; that the love wherewith thou lovedst me may be in them, 
and I in them. 

18:1When Jesus had spoken these words, he 
went forth with his disciples over the brook Kidron, where was a garden, into 
which he entered, himself and his disciples. 18:2Now Judas also, who 
betrayed him, knew the place: for Jesus oft-times resorted thither with his 
disciples. 18:3Judas then, having received the band 
of soldiers, and officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, 
cometh thither with lanterns and torches and weapons. 18:4Jesus therefore, 
knowing all the things that were coming upon him, went forth, and saith unto 
them, Whom seek ye? 18:5They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. 
Jesus saith unto them, I am he. And Judas also, who betrayed him, was 
standing with them. 18:6When therefore he said unto them, I am 
he, they went backward, and fell to the ground. 18:7Again therefore he 
asked them, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. 18:8Jesus answered, I 
told you that I am he; if therefore ye seek me, let these go their way: 
18:9that the word might be fulfilled which 
he spake, Of those whom thou hast given me I lost not one. 18:10Simon Peter 
therefore having a sword drew it, and struck the high priest's servant, and cut 
off his right ear. Now the servant's name was Malchus. 18:11Jesus therefore 
said unto Peter, Put up the sword into the sheath: the cup which the Father hath 
given me, shall I not drink it? 18:12So the band and the chief captain, and 
the officers of the Jews, seized Jesus and bound him, 18:13and led him to 
Annas first; for he was father in law to Caiaphas, who was high priest that 
year. 18:14Now Caiaphas was he that gave counsel 
to the Jews, that it was expedient that one man should die for the people. 18:15And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and 
so did another disciple. Now that disciple was known unto the high 
priest, and entered in with Jesus into the court of the high priest; 18:16but Peter was standing at the door 
without. So the other disciple, who was known unto the high priest, went out and 
spake unto her that kept the door, and brought in Peter. 18:17The maid therefore 
that kept the door saith unto Peter, Art thou also one of this man's 
disciples? He saith, I am not. 18:18Now the servants and the officers were 
standing there, having made a fire of coals; for it was cold; and they 
were warming themselves: and Peter also was with them, standing and warming 
himself. 18:19The high priest therefore asked Jesus 
of his disciples, and of his teaching. 18:20Jesus answered him, I have spoken 
openly to the world; I ever taught in synagogues, and in the temple, where all 
the Jews come together; and in secret spake I nothing. 18:21Why askest thou 
me? Ask them that have heard me, what I spake unto them: behold, these 
know the things which I said. 18:22And when he had said this, one of the 
officers standing by struck Jesus with his hand, saying, Answerest thou the high 
priest so? 18:23Jesus answered him, If I have spoken 
evil, bear witness of the evil: but if well, why smitest thou me? 18:24Annas therefore sent him bound unto 
Caiaphas the high priest. 18:25Now Simon Peter was standing and 
warming himself. They said therefore unto him, Art thou also one of his 
disciples? He denied, and said, I am not. 18:26One of the 
servants of the high priest, being a kinsman of him whose ear Peter cut off, 
saith, Did not I see thee in the garden with him? 18:27Peter therefore 
denied again: and straightway the cock crew. 18:28They lead Jesus 
therefore from Caiaphas into the Praetorium: and it was early; and they 
themselves entered not into the Praetorium, that they might not be defiled, but 
might eat the passover. 18:29Pilate therefore went out unto them, 
and saith, What accusation bring ye against this man? 18:30They answered and 
said unto him, If this man were not an evildoer, we should not have delivered 
him up unto thee. 18:31Pilate therefore said unto them, Take 
him yourselves, and judge him according to your law. The Jews said unto him, It 
is not lawful for us to put any man to death: 18:32that the word of 
Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spake, signifying by what manner of death he 
should die. 18:33Pilate therefore entered again into 
the Praetorium, and called Jesus, and said unto him, Art thou the King of the 
Jews? 18:34Jesus answered, Sayest thou this of 
thyself, or did others tell it thee concerning me? 18:35Pilate answered, 
Am I a Jew? Thine own nation and the chief priests delivered thee unto me: what 
hast thou done? 18:36Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of 
this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that 
I should not be delivered to the Jews: but now is my kingdom not from hence. 18:37Pilate therefore said unto him, Art 
thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end have 
I been born, and to this end am I come into the world, that I should bear 
witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice. 18:38Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? 
And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews, and saith unto them, 
I find no crime in him. 18:39But ye have a custom, that I should 
release unto you one at the passover: will ye therefore that I release unto you 
the King of the Jews? 18:40They cried out therefore again, 
saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber.) 

19:1Then Pilate therefore took Jesus, and 
scourged him. 19:2And the soldiers platted a crown of 
thorns, and put it on his head, and arrayed him in a purple garment; 19:3and they came unto him, and said, Hail, 
King of the Jews! and they struck him with their hands. 19:4And Pilate went out 
again, and saith unto them, Behold, I bring him out to you, that ye may know 
that I find no crime in him. 19:5Jesus therefore came out, wearing the 
crown of thorns and the purple garment. And Pilate saith unto them, 
Behold, the man! 19:6When therefore the chief priests and 
the officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him, crucify 
him! Pilate saith unto them, Take him yourselves, and crucify him: for I 
find no crime in him. 19:7The Jews answered him, We have a law, 
and by that law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God. 19:8When Pilate therefore heard this 
saying, he was the more afraid; 19:9and he entered into the Praetorium 
again, and saith unto Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer. 19:10Pilate therefore saith unto him, 
Speakest thou not unto me? Knowest thou not that I have power to release thee, 
and have power to crucify thee? 19:11Jesus answered him, Thou wouldest have 
no power against me, except it were given thee from above: therefore he that 
delivered me unto thee hath greater sin. 19:12Upon this Pilate 
sought to release him: but the Jews cried out, saying, If thou release this man, 
thou art not Caesar's friend: every one that maketh himself a king speaketh 
against Caesar. 19:13When Pilate therefore heard these 
words, he brought Jesus out, and sat down on the judgment-seat at a place called 
The Pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha. 19:14Now it was the Preparation of the 
passover: it was about the sixth hour. And he saith unto the Jews, Behold, your 
King! 19:15They therefore cried out, Away with 
him, away with him, crucify him! Pilate saith unto them, Shall I 
crucify your King? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar. 19:16Then therefore he delivered him unto 
them to be crucified. 19:17They took Jesus therefore: and he went 
out, bearing the cross for himself, unto the place called The place of a skull, 
which is called in Hebrew, Golgotha: 19:18where they crucified him, and with him 
two others, on either side one, and Jesus in the midst. 19:19And Pilate wrote a 
title also, and put it on the cross. And there was written, JESUS OF NAZARETH, 
THE KING OF THE JEWS. 19:20This title therefore read many of the 
Jews, for the place where Jesus was crucified was nigh to the city; and it was 
written in Hebrew, and in Latin, and in Greek. 19:21The chief priests of the Jews 
therefore said to Pilate, Write not, The King of the Jews; but that he said, I 
am King of the Jews. 19:22Pilate answered, What I have written I 
have written. 19:23The soldiers therefore, when they had 
crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to every soldier a part; 
and also the coat: now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout. 
19:24They said therefore one to another, 
Let us not rend it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be: that the scripture 
might be fulfilled, which saith, 
They parted my garments among them, 
And upon my vesture did they cast lots. 
19:25These things therefore the soldiers 
did. But there were standing by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother's 
sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. 19:26When Jesus 
therefore saw his mother, and the disciple standing by whom he loved, he saith 
unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son! 19:27Then saith he to the disciple, Behold, 
thy mother! And from that hour the disciple took her unto his own home. 
19:28After this Jesus, knowing that all 
things are now finished, that the scripture might be accomplished, saith, I 
thirst. 19:29There was set there a vessel full of 
vinegar: so they put a sponge full of the vinegar upon hyssop, and brought it to 
his mouth. 19:30When Jesus therefore had received the 
vinegar, he said, It is finished: and he bowed his head, and gave up his spirit. 
19:31The Jews therefore, because it was the 
Preparation, that the bodies should not remain on the cross upon the sabbath 
(for the day of that sabbath was a high day), asked of Pilate that their 
legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. 19:32The soldiers therefore came, and brake 
the legs of the first, and of the other that was crucified with him: 19:33but when they came to Jesus, and saw 
that he was dead already, they brake not his legs: 19:34howbeit one of the 
soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and straightway there came out blood and 
water. 19:35And he that hath seen hath borne 
witness, and his witness is true: and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye 
also may believe. 19:36For these things came to pass, that 
the scripture might be fulfilled, A bone of him shall not be broken. 19:37And again another scripture saith, 
They shall look on him whom they pierced. 19:38And after these 
things Joseph of Arimathaea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of 
the Jews, asked of Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus: and Pilate 
gave him leave. He came therefore, and took away his body. 19:39And there came also Nicodemus, he who 
at the first came to him by night, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about 
a hundred pounds. 19:40So they took the body of Jesus, and 
bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as the custom of the Jews is to bury. 
19:41Now in the place where he was 
crucified there was a garden; and in the garden a new tomb wherein was never man 
yet laid. 19:42There then because of the Jews' 
Preparation (for the tomb was nigh at hand) they laid Jesus. 

20:1Now on the first day of the week 
cometh Mary Magdalene early, while it was yet dark, unto the tomb, and seeth the 
stone taken away from the tomb. 20:2She runneth therefore, and cometh to 
Simon Peter, and to the other disciple whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, 
They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we know not where they have 
laid him. 20:3Peter therefore went forth, and the 
other disciple, and they went toward the tomb. 20:4And they ran both 
together: and the other disciple outran Peter, and came first to the tomb; 20:5and stooping and looking in, he seeth 
the linen cloths lying; yet entered he not in. 20:6Simon Peter 
therefore also cometh, following him, and entered into the tomb; and he 
beholdeth the linen cloths lying, 20:7and the napkin, that was upon his head, 
not lying with the linen cloths, but rolled up in a place by itself. 20:8Then entered in therefore the other 
disciple also, who came first to the tomb, and he saw, and believed. 20:9For as yet they knew not the scripture, 
that he must rise from the dead. 20:10So the disciples went away again unto 
their own home. 20:11But Mary was standing without at the 
tomb weeping: so, as she wept, she stooped and looked into the tomb; 20:12and she beholdeth two angels in white 
sitting, one at the head, and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. 
20:13And they say unto her, Woman, why 
weepest thou? She saith unto them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I 
know not where they have laid him. 20:14When she had thus said, she turned 
herself back, and beholdeth Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus. 20:15Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why 
weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith 
unto him, Sir, if thou hast borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, 
and I will take him away. 20:16Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She 
turneth herself, and saith unto him in Hebrew, Rabboni; which is to say, 
Teacher. 20:17Jesus saith to her, Touch me not; for 
I am not yet ascended unto the Father: but go unto my brethren, and say to them, 
I ascend unto my Father and your Father, and my God and your God. 20:18Mary Magdalene cometh and telleth the 
disciples, I have seen the Lord; and that he had said these things unto 
her. 20:19When therefore it was evening, on that 
day, the first day of the week, and when the doors were shut where the 
disciples were, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst, and 
saith unto them, Peace be unto you. 20:20And when he had 
said this, he showed unto them his hands and his side. The disciples therefore 
were glad, when they saw the Lord. 20:21Jesus therefore said to them again, 
Peace be unto you: as the Father hath sent me, even so send I you. 20:22And when he had said this, he breathed 
on them, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Spirit: 20:23whose soever sins 
ye forgive, they are forgiven unto them; whose soever sins ye retain, 
they are retained. 20:24But Thomas, one of the twelve, called 
Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came. 20:25The other 
disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the Lord. But he said unto them, 
Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my hand into his 
side, I will not believe. 20:26And after eight days again his 
disciples were within, and Thomas with them. Jesus cometh, the doors being shut, 
and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you. 20:27Then saith he to 
Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and see my hands; and reach hither thy 
hand, and put it into my side: and be not faithless, but believing. 20:28Thomas answered and said unto him, My 
Lord and my God. 20:29Jesus saith unto him, Because thou 
hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen, 
and yet have believed. 20:30Many other signs therefore did Jesus 
in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book: 20:31but these are written, that ye may 
believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing ye may have 
life in his name. 

21:1After these things Jesus manifested 
himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias; and he manifested 
himself on this wise. 21:2There was together Simon Peter, and 
Thomas called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of 
Zebedee, and two other of his disciples. 21:3Simon Peter saith unto them, I go a 
fishing. They say unto him, We also come with thee. They went forth, and entered 
into the boat; and that night they took nothing. 21:4But when day was 
now breaking, Jesus stood on the beach: yet the disciples knew not that it was 
Jesus. 21:5Jesus therefore saith unto them, 
Children, have ye aught to eat? They answered him, No. 21:6And he said unto 
them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and ye shall find. They cast 
therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes. 21:7That disciple therefore whom Jesus 
loved saith unto Peter, It is the Lord. So when Simon Peter heard that it was 
the Lord, he girt his coat about him (for he was naked), and cast himself into 
the sea. 21:8But the other disciples came in the 
little boat (for they were not far from the land, but about two hundred cubits 
off), dragging the net full of fishes. 21:9So when they got 
out upon the land, they see a fire of coals there, and fish laid thereon, and 
bread. 21:10Jesus saith unto them, Bring of the 
fish which ye have now taken. 21:11Simon Peter therefore went up, and 
drew the net to land, full of great fishes, a hundred and fifty and three: and 
for all there were so many, the net was not rent. 21:12Jesus saith unto 
them, Come and break your fast. And none of the disciples durst inquire 
of him, Who art thou? knowing that it was the Lord. 21:13Jesus cometh, and 
taketh the bread, and giveth them, and the fish likewise. 21:14This is now the 
third time that Jesus was manifested to the disciples, after that he was risen 
from the dead. 21:15So when they had broken their fast, 
Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, lovest thou me more than 
these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith 
unto him, Feed my lambs. 21:16He saith to him again a second time, 
Simon, son of John, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou 
knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Tend my sheep. 21:17He saith unto him 
the third time, Simon, son of John, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved 
because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, 
Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto 
him, Feed my sheep. 21:18Verily, verily, I say unto thee, When 
thou wast young, thou girdedst thyself, and walkedst whither thou wouldest: but 
when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall 
gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldest not. 21:19Now this he spake, 
signifying by what manner of death he should glorify God. And when he had spoken 
this, he saith unto him, Follow me. 21:20Peter, turning about, seeth the 
disciple whom Jesus loved following; who also leaned back on his breast at the 
supper, and said, Lord, who is he that betrayeth thee? 21:21Peter therefore 
seeing him saith to Jesus, Lord, and what shall this man do? 21:22Jesus saith unto him, If I will that 
he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? Follow thou me. 21:23This saying therefore went forth among 
the brethren, that that disciple should not die: yet Jesus said not unto him, 
that he should not die; but, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is 
that to thee? 21:24This is the disciple that beareth 
witness of these things, and wrote these things: and we know that his witness is 
true. 21:25And there are also many other things 
which Jesus did, the which if they should be written every one, I suppose that 
even the world itself would not contain the books that should be written. 

