
Justin Martyr












JUSTIN MARTYR 
THE SECOND APOLOGY OF JUSTIN FOR THE CHRISTIANS 
ADDRESSED TO THE ROMAN SENATE 
CHAPTER I -- INTRODUCTION. 
ROMANS, the things which have recently happened in your city under Urbicus, 
and the things which are likewise being everywhere unreasonably done by the 
governors, have compelled me to frame this composition for your sakes, who are 
men of like passions, and brethren, though ye know it not, and though ye be 
unwilling to acknowledge it on account of your glorying in what you esteem 
dignities. For everywhere, whoever is corrected by father, or neighbour, or 
child, or friend, or brother, or husband, or wife, for a fault, for being hard 
to move, for loving pleasure and being hard to urge to what is right (except 
those who have been persuaded that the unjust and intemperate shall be punished 
in eternal fire, but that the virtuous and those who lived like Christ shall 
dwell with God in a state that is free from suffering,--we mean, those who have 
become Christians), and the evil demons, who hate us, and who keep such men as 
these subject to themselves, and serving them in the capacity of judges, incite 
them, as rulers actuated by evil spirits, to put us to death. But that the cause 
of all that has taken place under Urbicus may become quite plain to you, I will 
relate what has been done. 
CHAPTER II -- URBICUS CONDEMNS THE CHRISTIANS TO DEATH. 
A certain woman lived with an intemperate husband; she herself, too, having 
formerly been intemperate. But when she came to the knowledge of the teachings 
of Christ she became sober-minded, and endeavoured to persuade her husband 
likewise to be temperate, citing the teaching of Christ, and assuring him that 
there shall be punishment in eternal fire inflicted upon those who do not live 
temperately and conformably to right reason. But he, continuing in the same 
excesses, alienated his wife from him by his actions. For she, considering it 
wicked to live any longer as a wife with a husband who sought in every way means 
of indulging in pleasure contrary to the law of nature, and in violation of what 
is right, wished to be divorced from him. And when she was overpersuaded by her 
friends, who advised her still to continue with him, in the idea that some time 
or other her husband might give hope of amendment, she did violence to her own 
feeling and remained with him. But when her husband had gone into Alexandria, 
and was reported to be conducting himself worse than ever, she--that she might 
not, by continuing in matrimonial connection with him, and by sharing his table 
and his bed, become a partaker also in his wickednesses and impieties--gave him 
what you call a bill of divorce, and was separated from him. But this noble 
husband of hers,--while he ought to have been rejoicing that those actions which 
formerly she unhesitatingly committed with the servants and hirelings, when she 
delighted in drunkenness and every vice, she had now given up, and desired that 
he too should give up the same,--when she had gone from him without his desire, 
brought an accusation against her, affirming that she was a Christian. And she 
presented a paper to thee, the Emperor, requesting that first she be permitted 
to arrange her affairs, and afterwards to make her defence against the 
accusation, when her affairs were set in order. And this you granted. And her 
quondam husband, since he was now no longer able to prosecute her, directed his 
assaults against a man, Ptolemaeus, whom Urbicus punished, and who had been her 
teacher in the Christian doctrines. And this he did in the following way. He 
persuaded a centurion--who had cast Ptolemaeus into prison, and who was friendly 
to himself--to take Ptolemaeus and interrogate him on this sole point: whether 
he were a Christian? And Ptolemaeus, being a lover of truth, and not of a 
deceitful or false disposition, when he confessed himself to be a Christian, was 
bound by the centurion, and for a long time punished in the prison. And, at 
last, when the man came to Urbicus, he was asked this one question only: whether 
he was a Christian? And again, being conscious of his duty, and the nobility of 
it through the teaching of Christ, he confessed his discipleship in the divine 
virtue. For he who denies anything, either denies it because he condemns the 
thing itself, or he shrinks from confession because he is conscious of his own 
unworthiness or alienation from it; neither of which cases is that of the true 
Christian. And when Urbicus ordered him to be led away to punishment, one 
Lucius, who was also himself a Christian, seeing the unreasonable judgment that 
had thus been given, said to Urbicus: "What is the ground of this judgment? Why 
have you punished this man, not as an adulterer, nor fornicator, nor murderer, 
nor thief, nor robber, nor convicted of any crime at all, but who has only 
confessed that he is called by the name of Christian? This judgment of yours, O 
Urbicus, does not become the Emperor Pius, nor the philosopher, the son of 
Caesar, nor the sacred senate." And he said nothing else in answer to Lucius 
than this: "You also seem to me to be such an one." And when Lucius answered, 
"Most certainly I am," he again ordered him also to be led away. And he 
professed his thanks, knowing that he was delivered from such wicked rulers, and 
was going to the Father and King of the heavens. And still a third having come 
forward, was condemned to be punished. 
CHAPTER III -- JUSTIN ACCUSES CRESCENS OF IGNORANT PREJUDICE AGAINST THE 
CHRISTIANS. 
I too, therefore, expect to be plotted against and fired to the stake, by 
some of those I have named, or perhaps by Crescens, that lover of bravado and 
boasting; for the man is not worthy of the name of philosopher who publicly 
bears witness against us in matters which he does not understand, saying that 
the Christians are atheists and impious, and doing so to win favour with the 
deluded mob, and to please them. For if he assails us without having read the 
teachings of Christ, he is thoroughly depraved, and far worse than the 
illiterate, who often refrain from discussing or bearing false witness about 
matters they do not understand. Or, if he has read them and does not understand 
the majesty that is in them, or, understanding it, acts thus that he may not be 
suspected of being such [a Christian], he is far more base and thoroughly 
depraved, being conquered by illiberal and unreasonable opinion and fear. For I 
would have you to know that I proposed to him certain questions on this subject, 
and interrogated him, and found most convincingly that he, in truth, knows 
nothing. And to prove that I speak the truth, I am ready, if these disputations 
have not been reported to you, to conduct them again in your presence. And this 
would be an act worthy of a prince. But if my quesions and his answers have been 
made known to you, you are already aware that he is acquainted with none of our 
matters; or, if he is acquainted with them, but, through fear of those who might 
hear him, does not dare to speak out, like Socrates, he proves himself, as I 
said before, no philosopher, but an opionative man; at least he does not regard 
that Socratic and most admirable saying: "But a man must in no wise be honoured 
before the truth." But it is impossible for a Cynic, who makes indifference his 
end, to know any good but indifference. 
CHAPTER IV -- WHY THE CHRISTIANS DO NOT KILL THEMSELVES. 
But lest some one say to us, "Go then all or you and kill yourselves, and 
pass even now to God, and do not trouble us," I will tell you why we do not so, 
but why, when examined, we fearlessly confess. We have been taught that God did 
not make the world aimlessly, but for the sake of the human race; and we have 
before stated that He takes pleasure in those who imitate His properties, and is 
displeased with those that embrace what is worthless either in word or deed. If, 
then, we all kill ourselves, we shall become the cause, as far as in us lies, 
why no one should be born, or instructed in the divine doctrines, or even why 
the human race should not exist; and we shall, if we so act, be ourselves acting 
in opposition to the will of God. But when we are examined, we make no denial, 
because we are not conscious of any evil, but count it impious not to speak the 
truth in all things, which also we know is pleasing to God, and be cause we are 
also now very desirous to deliver you from an unjust prejudice. 
CHAPTER V -- HOW THE ANGELS TRANSGRESSED. 
But if this idea take possession of some one that if we acknowledge God as 
our helper, we should not, as we say, be oppressed and persecuted by the wicked; 
this, too, I will solve. God, when He had made the whole world, and subjected 
things earthly to man, and arranged the heavenly elements for the increase of 
fruits and rotation of the seasons, and appointed this divine law--for these 
things also He evidently made for man--committed the care of men and of all 
things under heaven to angels whom He appointed over them. But the angels 
transgressed this appointment. and were captivated by love of women, and begat 
children who are those that are called demons; and besides, they afterwards 
subdued the human race to themselves, partly by magical writings, and partly by 
fears and the punishments they occasioned, and partly by teaching them to offer 
sacrifices, and incense, and libations, of which things they stood in need after 
they were enslaved by lustful passions; and among men they sowed murders, wars, 
adulteries, intemperate deeds, and all wickedness. Whence also the poets and 
mythologists, not knowing that it was the angels and those demons who had been 
begotten by them that did these things to men, and women, and cities, and 
nations, which they related, ascribed them to god himself, and to those who were 
accounted to be his very offspring, and to the offspring of those who were 
called his brothers, Neptune and Pluto, and to the children again of these their 
offspring. For whatever name each of the angels had given to himself and his 
children, by that name they called them. 
CHAPTER VI -- NAMES OF GOD AND OF CHRIST, THEIR MEANING AND POWER. 
But to the Father of all, who is unbegotten, there is no name given. For by 
whatever name He be called, He has as His elder the person who gives Him the 
name. But these words, Father, and God, and Creator, and Lord, and Master, are 
not names, but appellations derived from His good deeds and functions. And His 
Son, who alone is properly called Son, the Word, who also was with Him and was 
begotten before the works, when at first He created and arranged all things by 
Him, is called Christ, in reference to His being anointed and God's ordering all 
things through Him; this name itself also containing an unknown significance; as 
also the appellation "God" is not a name, but an opinion implanted in the nature 
of men of a thing that can hardly be explained. But "Jesus," His name as man and 
Saviour, has also significance. For He was made man also, as we before said, 
having been conceived according to the will of God the Father, for the sake of 
believing men, and for the destruction of the demons. And now you can learn this 
from what is under your own observation. For numberless demoniacs throughout the 
whole world, and in your city, many of our Christian men exorcising them in the 
name of Jesus Christ, who was crucified under Pontius Pilate, have healed and do 
heal, rendering helpless and driving the possessing devils out of the men, 
though they could not be cured by all the other exorcists, and those who used 
incantations and drugs. 
CHAPTER VII -- THE WORLD PRESERVED FOR THE SAKE OF CHRISTIANS. MAN'S 
RESPONSIBILITY. 
Wherefore God delays causing the confusion and destruction of the whole 
world, by which the wicked angels and demons and men shall cease to exist, 
because of the seed of the Christians, who know that they are the cause of 
preservation in nature. Since, if it were not so, it would not have been 
possible for you to do these things, and to be impelled by evil spirits; but the 
fire of judgment would descend and utterly dissolve all things, even as formerly 
the flood left no one but him only with his family who is by us called Noah, and 
by you Deucalion, from whom again such vast numbers have sprung, some of them 
evil and others good. For so we say that there will be the conflagration, but 
not as the Stoics, according to their doctrine of all things being changed into 
one another, which seems most degrading. But neither do we affirm that it is by 
fate that men do what they do, or suffer what they suffer, but that each man by 
free choice acts rightly or sins; and that it is by the influence of the wicked 
demons that earnest men, such as Socrates and the like, suflcr persecution and 
are in bonds, while Sardanapalus, Epicurus, and the like, seem to be blessed in 
abundance and glory. The Stoics, not observing this, maintained that all things 
take place according to the necessity of fate. But since God in the beginning 
made the race of angels and men with free-will, they will justly suffer in 
eternal fire the punishment of whatever sins they have committed. And this is 
the nature of all that is made, to be capable of vice and virtue. For neither 
would any of them be praiseworthy unless there were power to turn to both 
[virtue and vice]. And this also is shown by those men everywhere who have made 
laws and philosophized according to right reason, by their prescribing to do 
some things and refrain from others. Even the Stoic philosophers, in their 
doctrine of morals, steadily honour the same things, so that it is evident that 
they are not very felicitous in what they say about principles and incorporeal 
things. For if they say that human actions come to pass by fate, they will 
maintain either that God is nothing else than the things which are ever turning, 
and altering, and dissolving into the same things, and will appear to have had a 
comprehension only of things that are destructible, and to have looked on God 
Himself as emerging both in part and in whole in every wickedness; or that 
neither vice nor virtue is anything; which is contrary to every sound idea, 
reason, and sense. 
CHAPTER VIII -- ALL HAVE BEEN HATED IN WHOM THE WORD HAS DWELT. 
And those of the Stoic school--since, so far as their moral teaching went, 
they were admirable, as were also the poets in some particulars, on account of 
the seed of reason [the Logos] implanted in every race of men-- were, we know, 
hated and put to death,--Heraclitus for instance, and, among those of our own 
time, Musonius and others. For, as we intimated, the devils have always 
effected, that all those who anyhow live a reasonable and earnest life and shun 
vice, be hated. And it is nothing wonderful; if the devils are proved to cause 
those to be much worse hated who live not according to a part only of the word 
diffused [among men], but by the knowledge and contemplation of the whole Word, 
which is Christ. And they, having been shut up in eternal fire, shall suffer 
their just punishment and penalty. For if they are even now overthrown by men 
through the name of Jesus Christ, this is an intimation of the punishment in 
eternal fire which is to be inflicted on themselves and those who serve them. 
For thus did both all the prophets foretell, and our own teacher Jesus teach. 
CHAPTER IX -- ETERNAL PUNISHMENT NOT A MERE THREAT. 
And that no one may say what is said by those who are deemed philosophers, 
that our assertions that the wicked are punished in eternal fire are big words 
and bugbears, and that we wish men to live virtuously through fear, and not 
because such a life is good and pleasant; I will briefly reply to this, that if 
this be not so, God does not exist; or, if He exists, He cares not for men and 
neither virtue nor vice is anything, and, as we said before, lawgivers unjustly 
punish those who transgress good commandments. But since these are not unjust, 
and their Father teaches them by the word to do the same things as Him self, 
they who agree with them are not unjust. And if one object that the laws of men 
are diverse, and say that with some, one thing is considered good, another evil, 
while with others what seemed bad to the former is esteemed good, and what 
seemed good is esteemed bad, let him listen to what we say to this. We know that 
the wicked angels appointed laws conformable to their own wickedness, in which 
the men who are like them delight; and the right Reason, when He came, proved 
that not all opinions nor all doctrines are good, but that some are evil, while 
others are good. Wherefore, I will declare the same and similar things to such 
men as these, and, if need be, they shall be spoken of more at large. But at 
present I return to the subject. 
CHAPTER X -- CHRIST COMPARED WITH SOCRATES. 
Our doctrines, then, appear to be greater than all human teaching; because 
Christ, who appeared for our sakes, became the whole rational being, both body, 
and reason, and soul. For whatever either lawgivers or philosophers uttered 
well, they elaborated by finding and contemplating some part of the Word. But 
since they did not know the whole of the Word, which is Christ, they often 
contradicted themselves. And those who by human birth were more ancient than 
Christ, when they attempted to consider and prove things by reason, were brought 
before the tribunals as impious persons and busybodies. And Socrates, who was 
more zealous in this direction than all of them, was accused of the very same 
crimes as ourselves. For they said that he was introducing new divinities, and 
did not consider those to be gods whom the state recognised. But he cast out 
from the state both Homer[4] and the rest of the poets, and taught men to reject 
the wicked demons and those who did the things which the poets related; and he 
exhorted them to become acquainted with the God who was to them unknown, by 
means of the investigation of reason, saying, "That it is neither easy to find 
the Father and Maker of all, nor, having found Him, is it safe to declare Him to 
all."[5] But these things our Christ did through His own power. For no one 
trusted in Socrates so as to die for this doctrine, but in Christ, who was 
partially known even by Socrates (for He was and is the Word who is in every 
man, and who foretold the things that were to come to pass both through the 
prophets and in His own person when He was made of like passions, and taught 
these things), not only philosophers and scholars believed, but also artisans 
and people entirely uneducated, despising both glory, and fear, and death; since 
He is a power of the ineffable Father, and not the mere instrument of human 
reason. 
CHAPTER XI -- HOW CHRISTIANS VIEW DEATH. 
But neither should we be put to death, nor would wicked men and devils be 
more powerful than we, were not death a debt due by every man that is born. 
Wherefore we give thanks when we pay this debt. And we judge it right and 
opportune to tell here, for the sake of Crescens and those who rave as he does, 
what is related by Xenophon. Hercules, says Xenophon, coming to a place where 
three ways met, found Virtue and Vice, who appeared to him in the form of women: 
Vice, in a luxurious dress, and with a seductive expression rendered blooming by 
such ornaments, and her eyes of a quickly melting tenderness, said to Hercules 
that if he would follow her, she would always enable him to pass his life in 
pleasure and adorned with the most graceful ornaments, such as were then upon 
her own person; and Virtue, who was of squalid look and dress, said, But if you 
obey me, you shall adorn yourself not with ornament nor beauty that passes away 
and perishes, but with everlasting and precious graces. And we are persuaded 
that every one who flees those things that seem to be good, and follows hard 
after what are reckoned difficult and strange, enters into blessedness. For 
Vice, when by imitation of what is incorruptible (for what is really 
incorruptible she neither has nor can produce) she has thrown around her own 
actions, as a disguise, the properties of Virtue, and qualities which are really 
excellent, leads captive earthlyminded men, attaching to Virtue her own evil 
properties. But those who understood the excellences which belong to that which 
is real, are also uncorrupt in virtue. And this every sensible person ought to 
think both of Christians and of the athletes, and of those who did what the 
poets relate of the so-called gods, concluding as much from our contempt of 
death, even when it could be escaped. 
CHAPTER XII -- CHRISTIANS PROVED INNOCENT BY THEIR CONTENIPT OF DEATH. 
For I myself, too, when I was delighting in the doctrines of Plato, and heard 
the Christians slandered, and saw them fearless of death, and of all other 
things which are counted fearful, perceived that it was impossible that they 
could be living in wickedness and pleasure. For what sensual or intemperate man, 
or who that counts it good to feast on human flesh,[4] could welcome death that 
he might be deprived of his enjoyments, and would not rather continue always the 
present life, and attempt to escape the observation of the rulers; and much less 
would he denounce himself when the consequence would be death? This also the 
wicked demons have now caused to be done by evil men. For having put some to 
death on account of the accusations falsely brought against us, they also 
dragged to the torture our domestics, either children or weak women, and by 
dreadful torments forced them to admit those fabulous actions which they 
themselves openly perpetrate; about which we are the less concerned, because 
none of these actions are really ours, and we have the unbegotten and ineffable 
God as witness both of our thoughts and deeds. For why did we not even publicly 
profess that these were the things which we esteemed good, and prove that these 
are the divine philosophy, saying that the mysteries of Saturn are performed 
when we slay a man, and' that when we drink our fill of blood, as it is said we 
do, we are doing what you do before that idol you honour, and on which you 
sprinkle the blood not only of irrational animals, but also of men, making a 
libation of the blood of the slain by the hand of the most illustrious and noble 
man among you? And imitating Jupiter and the other gods in sodomy and shameless 
intercourse with woman, might we not bring as our apology the writings of 
Epicurus and the poets? But because we persuade men to avoid such instruction, 
and all who practise them and imitate such examples, as now in this discourse we 
have striven to persuade you, we are assailed in every kind of way. But we are 
not concerned, since we know that God is a just observer of all. But would that 
even now some one would mount a lofty rostrum, and shout with a loud voice, "Be 
ashamed, be ashamed, ye who charge the guiltless with those deeds which 
yourselves openly commit, and ascribe things which apply to yourselves and to 
your gods to those who have not even the slightest sympathy with them. Be ye 
converted; become wise." 
CHAPTER XIII.-HOW THE WORD HAS BEEN IN ALL MEN 
For I myself, when I discovered the wicked disguise which the evil spirits 
had thrown around the divine doctrines of the Christians, to turn aside others 
from joining them, laughed both at those who framed these falsehoods, and at the 
disguise itself, and at popular opinion; and I confess that I both boast and 
with all my strength strive to be found a Christian; not because the teachings 
of Plato are different from those of Christ, but because they are not in all 
respects similar, as neither are those of the others, Stoics, and poets, and 
historians. For each man spoke well in proportion to the share he had of the 
spermatic word, seeing what was related to it. But they who contradict 
themselves on the more important points appear not to have possessed the 
heavenly wisdom, and the knowledge which cannot be spoken against. Whatever 
things were rightly said among all men, are the property of us Christians. For 
next to God, we worship and love the Word who is from the unbegotten and 
ineffable God, since also He became man for our sakes, that, becoming a partaker 
of our sufferings, He might also bring us healing. For all the writers were able 
to see realities darkly through the sowing of the implanted word that was in 
them. For the seed and imitation imparted according to capacity is one thing, 
and quite another is the thing itself, of which there is the participation and 
imitation according to the grace which is from Him. 
CHAPTER XIV -- JUSTIN PRAYS THAT THIS APPEAL BE PUBLISHED. 
And we therefore pray you to publish this little book, appending what you 
think right, that our opinions may be known to others, and that these persons 
may have a fair chance of being freed from erroneous notions and ignorance of 
good, who by their own fault are become subject to punishment; that so these 
things maybe published to men, because it is in the nature of man to know good 
and evil; and by their condemning us, whom they do not understand, for actions 
which they say are wicked, and by delighting in the gods who did such things, 
and even now require similar actions from men, and by inflicting on us death or 
bonds or some other such punishment, as if we were guilty of these things, they 
condemn themselves, so that there is no need of other judges. 
CHAPTER XV -- CONCLUSION. 
And I despised the wicked and deceitful doctrine of Simon of my own nation. 
And if you give this book your authority, we will expose him before all, that, 
if possible, they may be converted. For this end alone did we compose this 
treatise. And our doctrines are not shameful, according to a sober judgment, but 
are indeed more lofty than all human philosophy; and if not so, they are at 
least unlike the doctrines of the Sotadists and Philaenidians, and Dancers, and 
Epicureans and such other teachings of the poets, which ali are allowed to 
acquaint themselves with, both as acted and as written. And henceforth we shall 
be silent, having done as much as we could, and having added the prayer that all 
men everywhere may be counted worthy of the truth. And would that you also, in a 
manner becoming piety and philosophy, would for your own sakes judge justly! 

