
Justin Martyr












FRAGMENTS OF THE LOST WORK OF JUSTIN ON THE RESURRECTION 
CHAPTER I.--THE SELF-EVIDENCING POWER OF TRUTH. 
THE word of truth is free, and carries its own authority, disdaining to fall 
under any skilful argument, or to endure the logical scrutiny of its hearers. 
But it would be believed for its own nobility, and for the confidence due to Him 
who sends it. Now the word of truth is sent from God; wherefore the freedom 
claimed by the truth is not arrogant. For being sent with authority, it were not 
fit that it should be required to produce proof of what is said; since neither 
is there any proof beyond itself, which is God. For every proof is more powerful 
and trustworthy than that which it proves; since what is disbelieved, until 
proof is produced, gets credit when such proof is produced, and is recognised as 
being what it was stated to be. But nothing is either more powerful or more 
trustworthy than the truth; so that he who requires proof of this is like one 
who wishes it demonstrated why the things that appear to the senses do appear. 
For the test of those things which are received through the reason, is sense; 
but of sense itself there is no test beyond itself. As then we bring those 
things which reason hunts after, to sense, and by it judge what kind of things 
they are, whether the things spoken be true or false, and then sit in judgment 
no longer, giving full credit to its decision; so also we refer all that is said 
regarding men and the world to the truth, and by it judge whether it be 
worthless or no. But the utterances of truth we judge by no separate test, 
giving full credit to itself. And God, the Father of the universe, who is the 
perfect intelligence, is the truth. And the Word, being His Son, came to us, 
having put on flesh, revealing both Himself and the Father, giving to us in 
Himself resurrection from the dead, and eternal life afterwards. And this is 
Jesus Christ, our Saviour and Lord. He, therefore, is Himself both the faith and 
the proof of Himself and of all things. Wherefore those who follow Him, and know 
Him, having faith in Him as their proof, shall rest in Him. But since the 
adversary does not cease to resist many, and uses many and divers arts to 
ensnare them, that he may seduce the faithful from their faith, and that he may 
prevent the faithless from believing, it seems to me necessary that we also, 
being armed with the invulnerable doctrines of the faith, do battle against him 
in behalf of the weak. 
CHAPTER II.--OBJECTIONS TO THE RESURRECTION OF THE FLESH. 
They who maintain the wrong opinion say that there is no resurrection of the 
flesh; giving as their reason that it is impossible that what is corrupted and 
dissolved should be restored to the same as it had been. And besides the 
impossibility, they say that the salvation of the flesh is disadvantageous; and 
they abuse the flesh, adducing its infirmities, and declare that it only is the 
cause of our sins, so that if the flesh, say they, rise again, our infirmities 
also rise with it. And such sophistical reasons as the following they elaborate: 
If the flesh rise again, it must rise either entire and possessed of all its 
parts, or imperfect. But its rising imperfect argues a want of power on God's 
part, if some parts could be saved, and others not; but if all the parts are 
saved, then the body will manifestly have all its members. But is it not absurd 
to say that these members will exist after the resurrection from the dead, since 
the Saviour said, "They neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but shall be 
as the angels in heaven?" And the angels, say they, have neither flesh, nor do 
they eat, nor have sexual intercourse; therefore there shall be no resurrection 
of the flesh. By these and such like arguments, they attempt to distract men 
from the faith. And there are some who maintain that even Jesus Himself appeared 
only as spiritual, and not in flesh, but presented merely the appearance of 
flesh: these persons seek to rob the flesh of the promise. First, then, let us 
solve those things which seem to them to be insoluble; then we will introduce in 
an orderly manner the demonstration concerning the flesh, proving that it 
partakes of salvation. 
CHAPTER III.--IF THE MEMBERS RISE, MUST THEY DISCHARGE THE SAME FUNCTIONS AS 
NOW? 
They say, then, if the body shall rise entire, and in possession of all its 
members, it necessarily follows that the functions of the members shall also be 
in existence; that the womb shall become pregnant, and the male also discharge 
his function of generation, and the rest of the members in like manner. Now let 
this argument stand or fall by this one assertion. For this being proved false, 
their whole objection will be removed. Now it is indeed evident that the members 
which discharge functions discharge those functions which in the present life we 
see but it does not follow that they necessarily discharge the same functions 
from the beginning. And that this may be more clearly seen, let us consider it 
thus. The function of the womb is to become pregnant; and of the member of the 
male to impregnate. But as, though these members are destined to discharge such 
functions, it is not therefore necessary that they from the beginning discharge 
them (since we see many women who do not become pregnant, as those that are 
barren, even though they have wombs), so pregnancy is not the immediate and 
necessary consequence of having a womb; but those even who are not barren 
abstain from sexual intercourse, some being virgins from the first, and others 
from a certain time. And we see men also keeping themselves virgins, some from 
the first, and some from a certain time; so that by their means, marriage, made 
lawless through lust, is destroyed. And we find that some even of the lower 
animals, though possessed of wombs, do not bear, such as the mule; and the male 
mules do not beget their kind. So that both in the case of men and the 
irrational animals we can see sexual intercourse abolished; and this, too, 
before the future world. And our Lord Jesus Christ was born of a virgin, for no 
other reason than that He might destroy the begetting by lawless desire, and 
might show to the ruler that the formation of man was possible to God without 
human intervention. And when He had been born, and had submitted to the other 
conditions of the flesh,--I mean food, drink, and clothing,--this one condition 
only of discharging the sexual function He did not submit to; for, regarding the 
desires of the flesh, He accepted some as necessary, while others, which were 
unnecessary, He did not submit to. For if the flesh were deprived of food, 
drink, and clothing, it would be destroyed; but being deprived of lawless 
desire, it suffers no harm. And at the same time He foretold that, in the future 
world, sexual intercourse should be done away with; as He says, "The children of 
this world marry, and are given in marriage; but the children of the world to 
come neither marry nor are given in marriage, but shall be like the angels in 
heaven." Let not, then, those that are unbelieving marvel, if in the world to 
come He do away with those acts of our fleshly members which even in this 
present life are abolished. 
CHAPTER IV.--MUST THE DEFORMED RISE DEFORMED? 
Well, they say, if then the flesh rise, it must rise the same as it falls; so 
that if it die with one eye, it must rise one-eyed; if lame, lame; if defective 
in any part of the body, in this part the man must rise deficient. How truly 
blinded are they in the eyes of their hearts! For they have not seen on the 
earth blind men seeing again, and the lame walking by His word. All things which 
the Saviour did, He did in the first place in order that what was spoken 
concerning Him in the prophets might be fulfilled, "that the blind should 
receive sight, and the deaf hear," and so on; but also to induce the belief that 
in the resurrection the flesh shall rise entire. For if on earth He healed the 
sicknesses of the flesh, and made the body whole, much more will He do this in 
the resurrection, so that the flesh shall rise perfect and entire. In this 
manner, then, shall those dreaded difficulties of theirs be healed. 
CHAPTER V.--THE RESURRECTION OF THE FLESH IS NOT IMPOSSIBLE. 
But again, of those who maintain that the flesh has no resurrection, some 
assert that it is impossible; others that, considering how vile and despicable 
the flesh is, it is not fit that God should raise it; and others, that it did 
not at the first receive the promise. First, then, in respect of those who say 
that it is impossible for God to raise it, it seems to me that I should show 
that they are ignorant, professing as they do in word that they are believers, 
yet by their works proving themselves to be unbelieving, even more unbelieving 
than the unbelievers. For, seeing that all the heathen believe in their idols, 
and are persuaded that to them all things are possible (as even their poet Homer 
says, "The gods can do all things, and that easily;" and he added the word 
"easily" that he might bring out the greatness of the power of the gods), many 
do seem to be more unbelieving than they. For if the heathen believe in their 
gods, which are idols ("which have ears, and they hear not; they have eyes, and 
they see not"), that they can do all things, though they be but devils, as saith 
the Scripture, "The gods of the nations axe devils," much more ought we, who 
hold the right, excellent, and true faith, to believe in our God, since also we 
have proofs [of His power], first in the creation of the first man, for he was 
made from the earth by God; and this is sufficient evidence of God's power; and 
then they who observe things can see how men are generated one by another, and 
can marvel in a still greater degree that from a little drop of moisture so 
grand a living creature is formed. And certainly if this were only recorded in a 
promise, and not seen accomplished, this too would be much more incredible than 
the other; but it is rendered more credible by accomplishment. But even in the 
case of the resurrection the Saviour has shown us accomplishments, of which we 
will in a little speak. But now we are demonstrating that the resurrection of 
the flesh is possible, asking pardon of the children of the Church if we adduce 
arguments which seem to be secular s and physical: first, because to God nothing 
is secular, not even the world itself, for it is His workmanship; and secondly, 
because we are conducting our argument so as to meet unbelievers. For if we 
argued with believers, it were enough to say that we believe; but now we must 
proceed by demonstrations. The foregoing proofs are indeed quite sufficient to 
evince the possibility of the resurrection of the flesh; but since these men are 
exceedingly unbelieving, we will further adduce a more convincing argument 
still,--an argument drawn not from faith, for they are not within its scope, but 
from their own mother unbelief,--I mean, of course, from physical reasons. For 
if by such arguments we prove to them that the resurrection of the flesh is 
possible, they are certainly worthy of great contempt if they can be persuaded 
neither by the deliverances of faith nor by the arguments of the world. 
CHAPTER VI.--THE RESURRECTION CONSISTENT WITH THE OPINIONS OF THE 
PHILOSOPHERS. 
Those, then, who are called natural philosophers, say, some of them, as 
Plato, that the universe is matter and God; others, as Epicurus, that it is 
atoms and the void; others, like the Stoics, that it is these four--fire, water, 
air, earth. For it is sufficient to mention the most prevalent opinions. And 
Plato says that all things are made from matter by God, and according to His 
design; but Epicures and his followers say that all things are made from the 
atom and the void by some kind of self-regulating action of the natural movement 
of the bodies; and the Stoics, that all are made of the four elements, God 
pervading them. But while there is such discrepancy among them, there are some 
doctrines acknowledged by them all in common, one of which is that neither can 
anything be produced from what is not in being, nor anything be destroyed or 
dissolved into what has not any being, and that the elements exist 
indestructible out of which all things are generated. And this being so, the 
regeneration of the flesh will, according to all these philosophers, appear to 
be possible. For if, according to Plato, it is matter and God, both these are 
indestructible and God; and God indeed occupies the position of an artificer, to 
wit, a potter; and matter occupies the place of clay or wax, or some such thing. 
That, then, which is formed of matter, be it an image or a statue, is 
destructible; but the matter itself is indestructible, such as clay or wax, or 
any other such kind of matter. Thus the artist designs in the clay or wax, and 
makes the form of a living animal; and again, if his handiwork be destroyed, it 
is not impossible for him to make the same form, by working up the same 
material, and fashioning it anew. So that, according to Plato, neither will it 
be impossible for God, who is Himself indestructible, and has also 
indestructible material, even after that which has been first formed of it has 
been destroyed, to make it anew again, and to make the same form just as it was 
before. But according to the Stoics even, the body being produced by the mixture 
of the four elementary substances, when this body has been dissolved into the 
four elements, these remaining indestructible, it is possible that they receive 
a second time the same fusion and composition, from God pervading them, and so 
re-make the body which they formerly made. Like as if a man shall make a 
composition of gold and silver, and brass and tin, and then shall wish to 
dissolve it again, so that each element exist separately, having again mixed 
them, he may, if he pleases, make the very same composition as he had formerly 
made. Again, according to Epicurus, the atoms and the void being indestructible, 
it is by a definite arrangement and adjustment of the atoms as they come 
together, that both all other formations are produced, and the body itself; and 
it being in course of time dissolved, is dissolved again into those atoms from 
which it was also produced. And as these remain indestructible, it is not at all 
impossible, that by coming together again, and receiving the same arrangement 
and position, they should make a body of like nature to what was formerly 
produced by them; as if a jeweller should make in mosaic the form of an animal, 
and the stones should be scattered by time or by the man himself who made them, 
he having still in his possession the scattered stones, may gather them together 
again, and having gathered, may dispose them in the same way, and make the same 
form of an animal. And shall not God be able to collect again the decomposed 
members of the flesh, and make the same body as was formerly produced by Him? 
CHAPTER VII.--THE BODY VALUABLE IN GOD'S SIGHT. 
But the proof of the possibility of the resurrection of the flesh I have 
sufficiently demonstrated, in answer to men of the world. And if the 
resurrection of the flesh is not found impossible on the principles even of 
unbelievers, how much more will it be found in accordance with the mind of 
believers! But following our order, we must now speak with respect to those who 
think meanly of the flesh, and say that it is not worthy of the resurrection nor 
of the heavenly economy, because, first, its substance is earth; and besides, 
because it is full of all wickedness, so that it forces the soul to sin along 
with it. But these persons seem to be ignorant of the whole work of God, both of 
the genesis and formation of man at the first, and why the things in the world 
were made. For does not the word say, "Let Us make man in our image, and after 
our likeness?" What kind of man? Manifestly He means fleshly man, For the word 
says, "And God took dust of the earth, and made man." It is evident, therefore, 
that man made in the image of God was of flesh. Is it not, then, absurd to say, 
that the flesh made by God in His own image is contemptible, and worth nothing? 
But that the flesh is with God a precious possession is manifest, first from its 
being formed by Him, if at least the image is valuable to the former and artist; 
and besides, its value can be gathered from the creation of the rest of the 
world. For that on account of which the rest is made, is the most precious of 
all to the maker. 
CHAPTER VIII.--DOES THE BODY CAUSE THE SOUL TO SIN? 
Quite true, say they; yet the flesh is a sinner, so much so, that it forces 
the soul to sin along with it. And thus they vainly accuse it, and lay to its 
charge alone the sins of both. But in what instance can the flesh possibly sin 
by itself, if it have not the soul going before it and inciting it? For as in 
the case of a yoke of oxen, if one or other is loosed from the yoke, neither of 
them can plough alone; so neither can soul or body alone effect anything, if 
they be unyoked from their communion. And if it is the flesh that is the sinner, 
then on its account alone did the Saviour come, as He says, "I am not come to 
call the righteous, but sinners to repentance." Since, then, the flesh has been 
proved to be valuable in the sight of God, and glorious above all His works, it 
would very justly be saved by Him. 
We must meet, therefore, those who say, that even though it be the special 
handiwork of God, and beyond all else valued by Him, it would not immediately 
follow that it has the promise of the resurrection. Yet is it not absurd, that 
that which has been produced with such circumstance, and which is beyond all 
else valuable, should be so neglected by its Maker, as to pass to nonentity? 
Then the sculptor and painter, if they wish the works they have made to endure, 
that they may win glory by them, renew them when they begin to decay; but God 
would so neglect His own possession and work, that it becomes annihilated, and 
no longer exists. Should we not call this labour in vain? As if a man who has 
built a house should forthwith destroy it, or should neglect it, though he sees 
it falling into decay, and is able to repair it: we would blame him for 
labouring in vain; and should we not so blame God? But not such an one is the 
Incorruptible,--not senseless is the Intelligence of the universe. Let the 
unbelieving be silent, even though they themselves do not believe. 
But, in truth, He has even called the flesh to the resurrection, and promises 
to it everlasting life. For where He promises to save man, there He gives the 
promise to the flesh. For what is man but the reasonable animal composed of body 
and soul? Is the soul by itself man? No; but the soul of man. Would the body be 
called man? No, but it is called the body of man. If, then, neither of these is 
by itself man, but that which is made up of the two together is called man, and 
God has called man to life and resurrection, He has called not a part, but the 
whole, which is the soul and the body. Since would it not be unquestionably 
absurd, if, while these two are in the same being and according to the same law, 
the one were saved and the other not? And if it be not impossible, as has 
already been proved, that the flesh be regenerated, what is the distinction on 
the ground of which the soul is saved and the body not? Do they make God a 
grudging God? But He is good, and will have all to be saved. And by God and His 
proclamation, not only has your soul heard and believed on Jesus Christ, and 
with it the flesh, but both were washed, and both wrought righteousness. They 
make God, then ungrateful and unjust, if, while both believe on Him, He desires 
to save one and not the other. Well, they say, but the soul is incorruptible, 
being a part of God and inspired by Him, and therefore He desires to save what 
is peculiarly His own and akin to Himself; but the flesh is corruptible, and not 
from Him, as the soul is. Then what thanks are due to Him, and what 
manifestation of His power and goodness is it, if He purposed to save what is by 
nature saved and exists as a part of Himself? For it had its salvation from 
itself; so that in saving the soul, God does no great thing. For to be saved is 
its natural destiny, because it is a part of Himself, being His inspiration. But 
no thanks are due to one who saves what is his own; for this is to save himself. 
For he who saves a part himself, saves himself by his own means, lest he become 
defective in that part; and this is not the act of a good man. For not even when 
a man does good to his children and offspring, does one call him a good man; for 
even the most savage of the wild beasts do so, and indeed willingly endure 
death, if need be, for the sake of their cubs. But if a man were to perform the 
same acts in behalf of his slaves, that man would justly be called good. 
Wherefore the Saviour also taught us to love our enemies, since, says He, what 
thank have ye? So that He has shown us that it is a good work not only to love 
those that are begotten of Him, but also those that are without. And what He 
enjoins upon us, He Himself first of all does. 
CHAPTER IX.--THE RESURRECTION OF CHRIST PROVES THAT THE BODY RISES. 
If He had no need of the flesh, why did He heal it? And what is most forcible 
of all, He raised the dead. Why? Was it not to show what the resurrection should 
be? How then did He raise the dead? Their souls or their bodies? Manifestly 
both. If the resurrection were only spiritual, it was requisite that He, in 
raising the dead, should show the body lying apart by itself, and the soul 
living apart by itself. But now He did not do so, but raised the body, 
confirming in it the promise of life. Why did He rise in the flesh in which He 
suffered, unless to show the resurrection of the flesh? And wishing to confirm 
this, when His disciples did not know whether to believe He had truly risen in 
the body, and were looking upon Him and doubting, He said to them, "Ye have not 
yet faith, see that it is I;" and He let them handle Him, and showed them the 
prints of the nails in His hands. And when they were by every kind of proof 
persuaded that it was Himself, and in the body, they asked Him to eat with them, 
that they might thus still more accurately ascertain that He had in verity risen 
bodily; and He did eat honey-comb and fish. And when He had thus shown them that 
there is truly a resurrection of the flesh, wishing to show them this also, that 
it is not impossible for flesh to ascend into heaven (as He had said that our 
dwelling-place is in heaven), "He was taken up into heaven while they beheld," 
as He was in the flesh. If, therefore, after all that has been said, any one 
demand demonstration of the resurrection, he is in no respect different from the 
Sadducees, since the resurrection of the flesh is the power of God, and, being 
above all reasoning, is established by faith, and seen in works. 
CHAPTER X.--THE BODY SAVED, AND WILL THEREFORE RISE. 
The resurrection is a resurrection of the flesh which died. For the spirit 
dies not; the soul is in the body, and without a soul it cannot live. The body, 
when the soul forsakes it, is not. For the body is the house of the soul; and 
the soul the house of the spirit. These three, in all those who cherish a 
sincere hope and unquestioning faith in God, will be saved. Considering, 
therefore, even such arguments as are suited to this world, and finding that, 
even according to them, it is not impossible that the flesh be regenerated; and 
seeing that, besides all these proofs, the Saviour in the whole Gospel shows 
that there is salvation for the flesh, why do we any longer endure those 
unbelieving and dangerous arguments, and fail to see that we are retrograding 
when we listen to such an argument as this: that the soul is immortal, but the 
body mortal, and incapable of being revived? For this we used to hear from 
Pythagoras and Plato, even before we learned the truth. If then the Saviour said 
this, and proclaimed salvation to the soul alone, what new thing, beyond what we 
heard from Pythagoras and Plato and all their band, did He bring us? But now He 
has come proclaiming the glad tidings of a new and strange hope to men. For 
indeed it was a strange and new thing for God to promise that He would not keep 
incorruption in incorruption, but would make corruption incorruption. But 
because the prince of wickedness could in no other way corrupt the truth, he 
sent forth his apostles (evil men who introduced pestilent doctrines), choosing 
them from among those who crucified our Saviour; and these men bore the name of 
the Saviour, but did the works of him that sent them, through whom the name 
itself has been spoken against. But if the flesh do not rise, why is it also 
guarded, and why do we not rather suffer it to indulge its desires? Why do we 
not imitate physicians, who, it is said, when they get a patient that is 
despaired of and incurable, allow him to indulge his desires? For they know that 
he is dying; and this indeed those who hate the flesh surely do, casting it out 
of its inheritance, so far as they can; for on this account they also despise 
it, because it is shortly to become a corpse. But if our physician Christ, God, 
having rescued us from our desires, regulates our flesh with His own wise and 
temperate rule, it is evident that He guards it from sins because it possesses a 
hope of salvation, as physicians do not suffer men whom they hope to save to 
indulge in what pleasures they please. 

