
Justin Martyr












JUSTIN'S HORTATORY ADDRESS TO THE GREEKS 
CHAPTER I.-- REASONS FOR ADDRESSING THE GREEKS. 
As I begin this hortatory address to you, ye men of Greece, I pray God that I 
may know what I ought to say to you, and that you, shaking off your habitual 
love of disputing, and being livered from the error of your fathers, may how 
choose what is profitable; not fancying that you commit any offence against your 
forefathers, though the things which you formerly considered by no means 
salutary should now seem useful to you. For accurate investigation of matters, 
putting truth to the question with a more searching scrutiny, often reveals that 
things which have passed for excellent are of quite another sort. Since, then, 
we propose to discourse of the true religion(than which, I think, there is 
nothing which is counted more valuable by those who desire to pass through life 
without danger, on account of the judgment which is to be after the termination 
of this life, and which is announced not only by our forefathers according to 
God, to wit the prophets and lawgivers, but also by those among yourselves who 
have been esteemed wise, not poets alone, but also philosophers, who professed 
among you that they had attained the true and divine knowledge), I think it well 
first of all to examine the teachers of religion, both our own and yours, who 
they were, and how great, and in what times they lived; in order that those who 
have formerly received from their fathers the false religion, may now, when they 
perceive this, be extricated from that inveterate error; and that we may clearly 
and manifestly show that we ourselves follow the religion of our forefathers 
according to God. 
CHAPTER II--THE POETS ARE UNFIT TO BE RELIGIOUS TEACHERS. 
Whom, then, ye men of Greece, do ye call your teachers of religion? The 
poets? It will do your cause no good to say so to men who know the poets; for 
they know how very ridiculous a theogony they have composed,--as we can learn 
from Homer, your most distinguished and prince of poets. For he says, first, 
that the gods were in the beginning generated from water; for he has written 
thus: 
Both ocean, the origin of the gods, and their mother Tethys. 
And then we must also remind you of what he further says of him 
whom ye consider the first of the gods, and whom he often calls "the father of 
gods and men;" for he said: 
Zeus, who is the dispenser of war to men. Indeed, he 
says that he was not only the dispenser of war to the army, but also the cause 
of perjury to the Trojans, by means of his daughter; and Homer introduces him in 
love, and bitterly complaining, and bewailing himself, and plotted against by 
the other gods, and at one time exclaiming concerning his own son: 
Alas! he falls, my most beloved of men! Sarpedon, vanquished 
  by Patroclus, falls. So will the fates. And at another time 
concerning Hector: 
Ah! I behold a warrior dear to me Around the walls of Ilium 
  driven, and grieve For Hector. And what he says of the conspiracy 
of the other gods against Zeus, they know who read these words: "When the other 
Olympians--Juno, and Neptune, and Minerva--wished to bind him." And unless the 
blessed gods had feared him whom gods call Briareus, Zeus would have been bound 
by them. And what Homer says of his intemperate loves, we must remind you in the 
very words he used.For he said that Zeus spake thus to Juno: 
For never goddess pour'd, nor woman yet, So full a tide of 
  love into my breast; I never loved Ixion's consort thus, Nor sweet 
  Acrisian Danae, from whom Sprang Perseus, noblest of the race of man; 
  Nor Phoenix' daughter fair, of whom were born Minos, unmatch'd but by 
  the powers above, And Rhadamanthus; nor yet Semele, Nor yet Alcmene, 
  who in Thebes produced The valiant Hercules; and though my son By 
  Semele were Bacchus, joy of man; Nor Ceres golden-hair'd, nor 
  high-enthron'd Latona in the skies; no--nor thyself As now I love 
  thee, and my soul perceive O'erwhelm'd with sweetness of intense desire. 
It is fit that we now mention what one can learn from the work of 
Homer of the other gods, and what they suffered at the hands of men. For he says 
that Mars and Venus were wounded by Diomed, and of many others of the gods he 
relates the sufferings. For thus we can gather from the case of Dione consoling 
her daughter; for she said to her: 
Have patience, dearest child; though much enforc'd Restrain 
  thine anger: we, in heav'n who dwell, Have much to bear from mortals; and 
  ourselves Too oft upon each other suff'rings lay: Mars had his 
  suff'rings; by Aloeus sons, Otus and Ephialtes, strongly bound, He 
  thirteen months in brazen fetters lay: Juno, too, suffer'd, when 
  Amphitryon's son Thro'her right breast a three-barb'd arrow sent: 
  Dire, and unheard of, were the pangs she bore, Great Pluto's self the 
  stinging arrow felt, When that same son of Aegis-bearing Jove Assail'd 
  him in the very gates of hell, And wrought him keenest anguish; pierced 
  with pain, To high Olympus, to the courts of Jove, Groaning, he came; 
  the bitter shaft remain'd Deep in his shoulder fix'd, and griev'd his 
  soul." But if it is right to remind you of the battle of the gods, 
opposed to one another, your own poet himself will recount it, saying: 
Such was the shock when gods in battle met; For there to royal 
  Neptune stood oppos'd Phoebus Apollo with his arrows keen; The 
  blue-eyed Pallas to the god of war; To Juno, Dian, heav'nly archeress, 
  Sister of Phoebus, golden-shafted queen. Stout Hermes, helpful god, 
  Latona fac'd. These and such like things did Homer teach you; and 
not Homer only, but also Hesiod. So-that if you believe your most distinguished 
poets, who have given the genealogies of your gods, you must of necessity either 
suppose that the gods are such beings as these, or believe that there are no 
gods at all. 
CHAPTER III.--OPINIONS OF THE SCHOOL OF THALES. 
And if you decline citing the poets, because you say it is allowable for them 
to frame myths, and to relate in a mythical way many things about the gods which 
are far from true, do you suppose you have some others for your religious 
teachers, or how do you say that they themselves have learned this religion of 
yours? For it is impossible that any should know matters so great and divine, 
who have not themselves learned them first from the initiated. You will no doubt 
say, "The sages and philosophers." For to them, as to a fortified wall, you are 
wont to flee, when any one quotes the opinions of your poets about the gods. 
Therefore, since it is fit that we commence with the ancients and the earliest, 
beginning thence I will produce the opinion of each, much more ridiculous as it 
is than the theology of the poets. For Thales of Miletus, who took the lead in 
the study of natural philosophy, declared that water was the first principle of 
all things; for from water he says that all things are, and that into water all 
are resolved. And after him Anaximander, who came from the same Miletus, said 
that the infinite was the first principle of all things; for that from this 
indeed all things are produced, and into this do all decay. Thirdly, 
Anaximenes--and he too was from Miletus--says that air is the first principle of 
all things; for he says that from this all things are produced, and into this 
all are resolved. Heraclitus and Hippasus, from Metapontus, say that fire is the 
first principle of all things; for from fire all things proceed, and in fire do 
all things terminate. Anaxagoras of Clazomenae said that the homogeneous parts 
are the first principles of all things. Archelaus, the son of Apollodorus, an 
Athenian, says that the infinite air and its density and rarity are the first 
principle of all things. All these, forming a succession from Thales, followed 
the philosophy called by themselves physical. 
CHAPTER IV.--OPINIONS OF PYTHAGORAS AND EPICURUS. 
Then, in regular succession from another starting-point, Pythagoras the 
Samian, son of Mnesarchus, calls numbers, with their proportions and harmonies, 
and the elements composed of both, the first principles; and he includes also 
unity and the indefinite binary. Epicurus, an Athenian, the son of Neocles, says 
that the first principles of the things that exist are bodies perceptible by 
reason, admitting no vacuity, unbegotten, indestructible, which can neither be 
broken, nor admit of any formation of their parts, nor alteration, and are 
therefore perceptible by reason. Empedocles of Agrigentum, son of Meton, 
maintained that there were four elements--fire, air, water, earth; and two 
elementary powers--love and hate, of which the former is a power of union, the 
latter of separation. You see, then, the confusion of those who are considered 
by you to have been wise men, whom you assert to be your teachers of religion: 
some of them declaring that water is the first principle of all things; others, 
air others, fire; and others, some other of these forementioned elements; and 
all of them employing persuasive arguments for the establishment of their own 
errors, and attempting to prove their own peculiar dogma to be the most 
valuable. These things were said by them. How then, ye men of Greece, can it be 
safe for those who desire to be saved, to fancy that they can learn the true 
religion from these philosophers, who were neither able so to convince 
themselves as to prevent sectarian wrangling with one another, and not to appear 
definitely opposed to one another's opinions? 
CHAPTER V.--OPINIONS OF PLATO AND ARISTOTLE. 
But possibly those who are unwilling to give up the ancient and inveterate 
error, maintain that they have received the doctrine of their religion not from 
those who have now been mentioned, but from those who are esteemed among them as 
the most renowned and finished philosophers, Plato and Aristotle. For these, 
they say, have learned the perfect and true religion. But I would be glad to 
ask, first of all, from those who say so, from whom they say that these men have 
learned this knowledge; for it is impossible that men who have not learned these 
so great and divine matters from some who knew them, should either themselves 
know them, or be able correctly to teach others; and, in the second place, I 
think we ought to examine the opinions even of these sages. For we shall see 
whether each of these does not manifestly contradict the other. But if we find 
that even they do not agree with each other, I think it is easy to see clearly 
that they too are ignorant. For Plato, with the air of one that has descended 
from above, and has accurately ascertained and seen all that is in heaven, says 
that the most high God exists in a fiery substance. But Aristotle, in a book 
addressed to Alexander of Macedon, giving a compendious explanation of his own 
philosophy, clearly and manifestly overthrows the opinion of Plato, saying that 
God does not exist in a fiery substance: but inventing, as a fifth substance, 
some kind of aetherial and unchangeable body, says that God exists in it. Thus, 
at least, he wrote: "Not, as some of those who have erred regarding the Deity 
say, that God exists in a fiery substance." Then, as if he were not satisfied 
with this blasphemy against Plato, he further, for the sake of proving what he 
says about the aetherial body, cites as a witness him whom Plato had banished 
from his republic as a liar, and as being an imitator of the images of truth at 
three removes, for so Plato calls Homer; for he wrote: "Thus at least did Homer 
speak, 'And Zeus obtained the wide heaven in the air and the clouds,'" wishing 
to make his own opinion appear more worthy of credit by the testimony of Homer; 
not being aware that if he used Homer as a witness to prove that he spoke truth, 
many of his tenets would be proved untrue. For Thales of Miletus, who was the 
founder of philosophy among them, taking occasion from him, will contradict his 
first opinions about first principles. For Aristotle himself, having said that 
God and matter are the first principles of all things, Thales, the eldest of all 
their sages, says that water is the first principle of the things that exist; 
for he says that all things are from water, and that all things are resolved 
into water. And he conjectures this, first, from the fact that the seed of all 
living creatures, which is their first principle, is moist; and secondly, 
because all plants grow and bear fruit in moisture, but when deprived of 
moisture, wither. Then, as if not satisfied with his conjectures, he cites Homer 
as a most trustworthy testimony, who speaks thus: 
Ocean, who is the origin of all. May not Thales, then, 
very fairly say to him, "What is the reason, Aristotle, why you give heed to 
Homer, as if he spoke truth, when you wish to demolish the opinions of Plato; 
but when you promulgate an opinion contrary to ours, you think Homer 
untruthful?" 
CHAPTER VI.--FURTHER DISAGREEMENTS BETWEEN PLATO AND ARISTOTLE. 
And that these very wonderful sages of yours do not even agree in other 
respects, can be easily learned from this. For while Plato says that there are 
three first principles of all things, God, and matter, and form,--God, the maker 
of all; and matter, which is the subject of the first production of all that is 
produced, and affords to God opportunity for His workmanship; and form, which is 
the type of each of the things produced,--Aristotle makes no mention at all of 
form as a first principle, but says that there are two, God and matter. And 
again, while Plato says that the highest God and the ideas exist in the first 
place of the highest heavens, and in fixed sphere, Aristotle says that, next to 
the most high God, there are, not ideas, but certain gods, who can be perceived 
by the mind. Thus, then, do they differ concerning things heavenly. So that one 
can see that they not only are unable to understand our earthly matters, but 
also, being at variance among themselves regarding these things, they will 
appear unworthy of credit when they treat of things heavenly. And that even 
their doctrine regarding the human soul as it now is does not harmonize, is 
manifest from what has been said by each of them concerning it. For Plato says 
that it is of three parts, having the faculty of reason, of affection, and of 
appetite. But Aristotle says that the soul is not so comprehensive as to include 
also corruptible parts, but only reason. And Plato loudly maintains that "the 
whole soul is immortal." But Aristotle, naming it "the actuality," would have it 
to be mortal, not immortal. And the former says it is always in motion; but 
Aristotle says that it is immoveable, since it must itself precede all motion. 
CHAPTER VII.--INCONSISTENCIES OF PLATO'S DOCTRINE. 
But in these things they are convicted of thinking in contradiction to each 
other. And if any one will accurately criticise their writings, they have chosen 
to abide in harmony not even with their own opinions. Plato, at any rate, at one 
time says that there are three first principles of the universe--God, and 
matter, and form; but at another time four, for he adds the universal soul. And 
again, when he has already said that matter is eternal, he afterwards says that 
it is produced; and when he has first given to form its peculiar rank as a first 
principle, and has asserted for its self-subsistence, he afterwards says that 
this same thing is among the things perceived by the understanding. Moreover, 
having first declared that everything that is made is mortal? he afterwards 
states that some of the things that are made are indestructible and immortal. 
What, then, is the cause why those who have been esteemed wise among you 
disagree not only with one another but also with themselves? Manifestly, their 
unwillingness to learn from those who know, and their desire to attain accurate 
knowledge of things heavenly by their own human excess of wisdom though they 
were able to understand not even earthly matters. Certainly some of your 
philosophers say that the human soul is in us; others, that it is around us. For 
not even in this did they choose to agree with one another, but, distributing, 
as it were, ignorance in various ways among themselves, they thought fit to 
wrangle and dispute with one another even about the soul. For some of them say 
that the soul is fire, and some that it is the air; and others, the mind; and 
others, motion; and others, an exhalation; and certain others say that it is a 
power flowing from the stars; and others, number capable of motion; and others, 
a generating water. And a wholly confused and inharmonious opinion has prevailed 
among them, which only in this one respect appears praiseworthy to those who can 
form a right judgment, that they have been anxious to convict one another of 
error and falsehood. 
CHAPTER VIII.--ANTIQUITY, INSPIRATION, AND HARMONY OF CHRISTIAN TEACHERS. 
Since therefore it is impossible to learn anything true concerning religion 
from your teachers, who by their mutual disagreement have furnished you with 
sufficient proof of their own ignorance, I consider it reasonable to recur to 
our progenitors, who both in point of time have by a great way the precedence of 
your teachers, and who have taught us nothing from their own private fancy, nor 
differed with one another, nor attempted to overturn one another's positions, 
but without wrangling and contention received from God the knowledge which also 
they taught to us. For neither by nature nor by human conception is it possible 
for men to know things so great and divine, but by the gift which then descended 
from above upon the holy men, who had no need of rhetorical art, nor of uttering 
anything in a contentious or quarrelsome manner, but to present themselves pure 
to the energy of the Divine Spirit, in order that the divine plectrum itself, 
descending from heaven, and using righteous men as an instrument like a harp or 
lyre, might reveal to us the knowledge of things divine and heavenly. Wherefore, 
as if with one mouth and one tongue, they have in succession, and in harmony 
with one another, taught us both concerning God, and the creation of the world, 
and the formation of man, and concerning the immortality of the human soul, and 
the judgment which is to be after this life, and concerning all things which it 
is needful for us to know, and thus in divers times and places have afforded us 
the divine instruction. 
CHAPTER IX.--THE ANTIQUITY OF MOSES PROVED BY GREEK WRITERS. 
I will begin, then, with our first prophet and lawgiver, Moses; first 
explaining the times in which he lived, on authorities which among you are 
worthy of all credit. For I do not propose to prove these things only from our 
own divine histories, which as yet you are unwilling to credit on account of the 
inveterate error of your forefathers, but also from your own histories, and 
such, too, as have no reference to our worship, that you may know that, of all 
your teachers, whether sages, poets, historians, philosophers, or lawgivers, by 
far the oldest, as the Greek histories show us, was Moses, who was our first 
religious teacher. For in the times of Ogyges and Inachus, whom some of your 
poets suppose to have been earth-born, Moses is mentioned as the leader and 
ruler of the Jewish nation. For in this way he is mentioned both by Polemon in 
the first book of his Hellenics, and by Apion son of Posidonius in his 
book against the Jews, and in the fourth book of his history, where he says that 
during the reign of Inachus over Argos the Jews revolted from Amasis king of the 
Egyptians, and that Moses led them. And Ptolemaeus the Mendesian, in relating 
the history of Egypt, concurs in all this. And those who write the Athenian 
history, Hellanicus and Philochorus(the author of The Attic History), 
Castor and Thallus and Alexander Polyhistor, and also the very well informed 
writers on Jewish affairs, Philo and Josephus, have mentioned Moses as a very 
ancient and time-honoured prince of the Jews. Josephus, certainly, desiring to 
signify even by the title of his work the antiquity and age of the history, 
wrote thus at the commencement of the history: "The jewish antiquities of 
Flavius Josephus,"--signifying the oldness of the history by the word 
"antiquities." And your most renowned historian Diodorus, who employed thirty 
whole years in epitomizing the libraries, and who, as he himself wrote, 
travelled over both Asia and Europe for the sake of great accuracy, and thus 
became an eye-witness of very many things, wrote forty entire books of his own 
history. And he in the first book, having said that he bad learned from the 
Egyptian priests that Moses was an ancient lawgiver, and even the first, wrote 
of him in these very words: "For subsequent to the ancient manner of living in 
Egypt which gods and heroes are fabled to have regulated, they say that Moses 
first persuaded the people to use written laws, and to live by them; and he is 
recorded to have been a man both great of soul and of great faculty in social 
matters." Then, having proceeded a little further, and wishing to mention the 
ancient lawgivers, he mentions Moses first. For he spoke in these words: 
Among the Jews they say that Moses ascribed his laws s to that God 
  who is called Jehovah, whether because they judged it a marvellous and quite 
  divine conception which promised to benefit a multitude of men, or because 
  they were of opinion that the people would be the more obedient when they 
  contemplated the majesty and power of those who were said to have invented the 
  laws. And they say that Sasunchis was the second Egyptian legislator, a man of 
  excellent understanding. And the third, they say, was Sesonchosis the king, 
  who not only performed the most brilliant military exploits of any in Egypt, 
  but also consolidated that warlike race by legislation. And the fourth 
  lawgiver, they say, was Bocchoris the king, a wise and surpassingly skilful 
  man. And after him it is said that Amasis the king acceded to the government, 
  whom they relate to have regulated all that pertains to the rulers of 
  provinces, and to the general administration of the government of Egypt. And 
  they say that Darius, the father of Xerxes, was the sixth who legislated for 
  the Egyptians. 
CHAPTER X--TRAINING AND INSPIRATION OF MOSES. 
These things, ye men of Greece, have been recorded in writing concerning the 
antiquity of Moses by those who were not of our religion; and they said that 
they learned all these things from the Egyptian priests, among whom Moses was 
not only born, but also was thought worthy of partaking of all the education of 
the Egyptians, on account of his being adopted by the king's daughter as her 
son; and for the same reason was thought worthy of great attention, as the 
wisest of the historians relate, who have chosen to record his life and actions, 
and the rank of his descent,--I speak of Philo and Josephus. For these, in their 
narration of the history of the Jews, say that Moses was sprung from the race of 
the Chaldaeans, and that he was born in Egypt when his forefathers had migrated 
on account of famine from Phoenicia to that country; and him God chose to honour 
on account of his exceeding virtue, and judged him worthy to become the leader 
and lawgiver of his own race, when He thought it fight that the people of the 
Hebrews should return out of Egypt into their own land. To him first did God 
communicate that divine and prophetic gift which in those days descended upon 
the holy men, and him also did He first furnish that he might be our teacher in 
religion, and then after him the rest of the prophets, who both obtained the 
same gift as he, and taught us the same doctrines concerning the same subjects. 
These we assert to have been our teachers, who taught us nothing from their own 
human conception, but from the gift vouchsafed to them by God from above. 
CHAPTER XI.--HEATHEN ORACLES TESTIFY OF MOSES. 
But as you do not see the necessity of giving up the ancient error of your 
forefathers in obedience to these teachers[of ours], what teachers of your own 
do you maintain to have lived worthy of credit in the matter of religion? For, 
as I have frequently said, it is impossible that those who have not themselves 
learned these so great and divine things from such persons as are acquainted 
with them, should either themselves know them, or be able rightly to teach 
others. Since, therefore, it has been sufficiently proved that the opinions of 
your philosophers are obviously full of all ignorance and deceit, having now 
perhaps wholly abandoned the philosophers as formerly you abandoned the poets, 
you will turn to the deceit of the oracles; for in this style I have heard some 
speaking. Therefore I think it fit to tell you at this step in our discourse 
what I formerly heard among you concerning their utterances. For when one 
inquired at your oracle--it is your own story--what religious men had at any 
time happened to live, you say that the oracle answered thus: "Only the 
Chaldaeans have obtained wisdom, and the Hebrews, who worship God Himself, the 
self-begotten King." 
Since, therefore, you think that the truth can be learned from your oracles, 
when you read the histories and what has been written regarding the life of 
Moses by those who do not belong to our religion, and when you know that Moses 
and the rest of the prophets were descended from the race of the Chaldaeans and 
Hebrews, do not think that anything incredible has taken place if a man sprung 
from a godly line, and who lived worthily of the godliness of his fathers, was 
chosen by God to be honoured with this great gift and to be set forth as the 
first of all the prophets. 
CHAPTER XII.--ANTIQUITY OF MOSES PROVED. 
And I think it necessary also to consider the times in which your 
philosophers lived, that you may see that the time which produced them for you 
is very recent, and also short. For thus you will be able easily to recognise 
also the antiquity of Moses. But lest, by a complete survey of the periods, and 
by the use of a greater number of proofs, I should seem to be prolix, I thing it 
may be sufficiently demonstrated from the following. For Socrates was the 
teacher of Plato, and Plato of Aristotle. Now these men flourished in the time 
of Philip and Alexander of Macedon, in which time also the Athenian orators 
flourished, as the Philippics of Demosthenes plainly show us. And those who have 
narrated the deeds of Alexander sufficiently prove that during his reign 
Aristotle associated with him. From all manner of proofs, then, it is easy to 
see that the history of Moses is by far more ancient than all profane histories. 
And, besides, it is fit that you recognise this fact also, that nothing has been 
accurately recorded by Greeks before the era of the Olympiads, and that there is 
no ancient work which makes known any action of the Greeks or Barbarians. But 
before that period existed only the history of the prophet Moses, which he wrote 
in the Hebrew character by the divine inspiration. For the Greek character was 
not yet in use, as the teachers of language themselves prove, telling us that 
Cadmus first brought the letters from Phoenicia, and communicated them to the 
Greeks. And your first of philosophers, Plato, testifies that they were a recent 
discovery. For in the Timæus he wrote that Solon, the wisest of the wise 
men, on his return from Egypt, said to Critias that he had heard this from a 
very aged Egyptian priest, who said to him, "0 Solon, Solon, you Greeks are ever 
children, and aged Greek there is none." Then again he said, "You are all youths 
in soul, for you hold no ancient opinion derived through remote tradition, nor 
any system of instruction hoary with time; but all these things escape your 
knowledge, because for many generations the posterity of these ancient ages died 
mute, not having the use of letters." It is fit, therefore, that you understand 
that it is the fact that every history has been written in these 
recently-discovered Greek letters; and if any one would make mention of old 
poets, or legislators, or historians, or philosophers, or orators, he will find 
that they wrote their own works in the Greek character. 
CHAPTER XIII.--HISTORY OF THE SEPTUAGINT. 
But if any one says that the writings of MoSes and of the rest of the 
prophets were also written in the Greek character, let him read profane 
histories, and know that Ptolemy, king of Egypt, when he had built the library 
in Alexandria, and by gathering books from every quarter had filled it, then 
learnt that very ancient histories written in Hebrew happened to be carefully 
preserved; and wishing to know their contents, he sent for seventy wise men from 
Jerusalem, who were acquainted with both the Greek and Hebrew language, and 
appointed them to translate the books; and that in freedom from all disturbance 
they might the more speedily complete the translation, he ordered that there 
should be constructed, not in the city itself, but seven stadia off(where the 
Pharos was built), as many little cots as there were translators, so that each 
by himself might complete his own translation; and enjoined upon those officers 
who were appointed to this duty, to afford them all attendance, but to prevent 
communication with one another, in order that the accuracy of the translation 
might be discernible even by their agreement. And when he ascertained that the 
seventy men had not only given the same meaning, but had employed the same 
words, and had failed in agreement with one another not even to the extent of 
one word; but had written the same things, and concerning the same things, he 
was struck with amazement, and believed that the translation had been written by 
divine power, and perceived that the men were worthy of all honour, as beloved 
of God; and with many gifts ordered them to return to their own country. And 
having, as was natural, marvelled at the books, and concluded them to be divine, 
he consecrated them in that library. These things, ye men of Greece, are no 
fable, nor do we narrate fictions; but we ourselves having been in Alexandria, 
saw the remains of the little cots at the Pharos still preserved, and having 
heard these things from the inhabitants, who had received them as part of their 
country's tradition, we now tell to you what you can also learn from others, and 
specially from those wise and esteemed men who have written of these things, 
Philo and Josephus, and many others. But if any of those who are wont to be 
forward in contradiction should say that these books do not belong to us, but to 
the Jews, and should assert that we in vain profess to have learnt our religion 
froth them, let him know, as he may from those very things which are written in 
these books, that not to them, but to us, does the doctrine of them refer. That 
the books relating to our religion are to this day preserved among the Jews, has 
been a work of Divine Providence on our behalf; for lest, by producing them out 
of the Church, we should give occasion to those who wish to slander us to charge 
us with fraud, we demand that they be produced from the synagogue of the Jews, 
that from the very books still preserved among them it might clearly and 
evidently appear, that the laws which were written by holy men. for instruction 
pertain to us. 
CHAPTER XIV.--A WARNING APPEAL TO THE GREEKS. 
It is therefore necessary, ye Greeks, that you contemplate the things that 
are to be, and consider the judgment which is predicted by all, not only by the 
godly, but also by those who are irreligious, that ye do not without 
investigation commit yourselves to the error of your fathers, nor suppose that 
if they themselves have been in error, and have transmitted it to you, that this 
which they have taught you is true; but looking to the danger of so terrible a 
mistake, inquire and investigate carefully into those things which are, as you 
say, spoken of even by your own teachers. For even unwillingly they were on your 
account forced to say many things by the Divine regard for mankind, especially 
those of them who were in Egypt, and profited by the godliness of Moses and his 
ancestry. For I think that some of you, when you read even carelessly the 
history of Diodorus, and of those others who wrote of these things, cannot fail 
to see that both Orpheus, and Homer, and Solon, who wrote the laws of the 
Athenians, and Pythagoras, and Plato, and some others, when they had been in 
Egypt, and had taken advantage of the history of Moses, afterwards published 
doctrines concerning the gods quite contrary to those which formerly they had 
erroneously promulgated. 
CHAPTER XV.--TESTIMONY OF ORPHEUS TO MONOTHEISM. 
At all events, we must remind you what Orpheus, who was, as one might say, 
your first teacher of polytheism, latterly addressed to his son Musaeus, and to 
the other legitimate auditors, concerning the one and only God.And he spoke 
thus: 
I speak to those who lawfully may hear: All others, ye 
  profane, now close the doors, And, O Musaeus! hearken thou to me, Who 
  offspring art of the light-bringing moon: The words I utter now are true 
  indeed; And if thou former thoughts of mine hast seen, Let them not 
  rob thee of the blessed life, But rather turn the depths of thine own 
  heart Unto the place where light and knowledge dwell. Take thou the 
  word divine to guide thy steps, And walking well in the straight certain 
  path, Look to the one and universal King-- One, self-begotten, and the 
  only One, Of whom all things and we ourselves are sprung. All things 
  are open to His piercing gaze, While He Himself is still invisible. 
  Present in all His works, though still unseen, He gives to mortals 
  evil out of good, Sending both chilling wars and tearful griefs; And 
  other than the great King there is none. The clouds for ever settle round 
  His throne, And mortal eyeballs in mere mortal eyes Are weak, to see 
  Jove reigning over all. He sits established in the brazen heavens Upon 
  His golden throne; under His feet He treads the earth, and stretches His 
  right hand To all the ends of ocean, and around Tremble the mountain 
  ranges and the streams, The depths, too, of the blue and hoary sea. 
And again, in some other place he says: 
There is one Zeus alone, one sun, one hell, One Bacchus; and 
  in all things but one God; Nor of all these as diverse let me speak. 
And when he swears he says: 
Now I adjure thee by the highest heaven, The work of the great 
  God, the only wise; And I adjure thee by the Father's voice. Which 
  first He uttered when He stablished The whole world by His counsel. 
What does he mean by "I adjure thee by the Father's voice, which 
first He uttered?" It is the Word of God which he here names "the voice," by 
whom heaven and earth and the whole creation were made, as the divine prophecies 
of the holy men teach us; and these he himself also paid some attention to in 
Egypt, and understood that all creation was made by the Word of God; and 
therefore, after he says," I adjure thee by the Father's voice, which first He 
uttered," he adds this besides, "when by His counsel He established the whole 
world." Here he calls the Word "voice," for the sake of the poetical metre. And 
that this is so, is manifest from the fact, that a little further on, where the 
metre permits him, he names it "Word." For he said: 
Take thou the Word divine to guide thy steps. 
CHAPTER XVI.--TESTIMONY OF THE SIBYL. 
We must also mention what the ancient and exceedingly remote Sibyl, whom 
Plato and Aristophanes, and others besides, mention as a prophetess, taught you 
in her oracular verses concerning one only God. And she speaks thus: 
There is one only unbegotten God, Omnipotent, invisible, most 
  high, All-seeing, but Himself seen by no flesh. Then elsewhere 
thus: 
But we have strayed from the Immortal's ways, And worship with 
  a dull and senseless mind Idols, the workmanship of our own hands, And 
  images and figures of dead men. And again somewhere else: 
Blessed shall be those men upon the earth Who shall love the 
  great God before all else, Blessing Him when they eat and when they drink; 
  Trusting it, this their piety alone. Who shall abjure all shrines 
  which they may see, All altars and vain figures of dumb stones, 
  Worthless and stained with blood of animals, And sacrifice of the 
  four-fooled tribes, Beholding the great glory of One God. These 
are the Sibyl's words. 
CHAPTER XVII--TESTIMONY OF HOMER. 
And the poet Homer, using the license of poetry, and rivalling the original 
opinion of Orpheus regarding the plurality of t he gods, mentions, indeed, 
several gods in a mythical style, lest he should seem to sing in a different 
strain from the poem of Orpheus, which he so distinctly proposed to rival, that 
even in the first line of his poem he indicated the relation he held to him. For 
as Orpheus in the beginning of his poem had said, "0 goddess, sing the wrath of 
Demeter, who brings the goodly fruit," Homer began thus, "0 goddess, sing the 
wrath of Achilles, son of Peleus," preferring, as it seems to me, even to 
violate the poetical metre in his first line, than that he should seem not to 
have remembered before all else the names of the gods. But shortly after he also 
clearly and explicitly presents his own opinion regarding one God only, 
somewhere, saying to Achilles by the mouth of Phoenix, "Not though God Himself 
were to promise that He would peel off my old age, and give me the rigour of my 
youth," where he indicates by the pronoun the real and true God. And somewhere 
he makes Ulysses address the host of the Greeks thus: "The rule of many is not a 
good thing; let there be one ruler." And that the rule of many is not a good 
thing, but on the contrary an evil, he proposed to evince by fact, recounting 
the wars which took place on account of the multitude of rulers, and the fights 
and factions, and their mutual counterplots. For monarchy is free from 
contention. So far the poet Homer. 
CHAPTER XVIII.--TESTIMONY OF SOPHOCLES. 
And if it is needful that we add testimonies concerning one God, even from 
the dramatists, hear even Sophocles speaking thus: 
There is one God, in truth there is but one, Who made the 
  heavens and the broad earth beneath, The glancing waves of ocean and the 
  winds But many of us mortals err in heart, And set up for a solace in 
  our woes Images of the gods in stone and wood, Or figures carved in 
  brass or ivory, And, furnishing for these our handiworks, Both 
  sacrifice and rite magnificent, We think that thus we do a pious work. 
Thus, then, Sophocles. 
CHAPTER XIX.--TESTIMONY OF PYTHAGORAS. 
And Pythagoras, son of Mnesarchus, who expounded the doctrines of his own 
philosophy, mystically by means of symbols, as those who have written his life 
show, himself seems to have entertained thoughts about the unity of God not 
unworthy of his foreign residence in Egypt. For when he says that unity is the 
first principle of all things, and that it is the cause of all good, he teaches 
by an allegory that God is one, and alone. And that this is so, is evident from 
his saying that unity and one differ widely from one another. For he says that 
unity belongs to the class of things perceived by the mind, but that one belongs 
to numbers. And if you desire to see a clearer proof of the opinion of 
Pythagoras concerning one God, hear his own opinion, for he spoke as follows: 
"God is one; and He Himself does not, as some suppose, exist outside the world, 
but in it, He being wholly present in the whole circle, and beholding all 
generations; being the regulating ingredient of all the ages, and the 
administrator of His own powers and works, the first principle of all things, 
the light of heaven, and Father of all, the intelligence and animating soul of 
the universe, the movement of all orbits." Thus, then, Pythagoras. 
CHAPTER XX.--TESTIMONY OF PLATO. 
But Plato, though he accepted, as is likely, the doctrine of Moses and the 
other prophets regarding one only God, which he learned while in Egypt, yet 
fearing, on account of what had befallen Socrates, lest he also should raise up 
some Anytus or Meletus against himself, who should accuse him before the 
Athenians, and say, "Plato is doing harm, and making himself mischievously busy, 
not acknowledging the gods recognised by the state; "in fear of the 
hemlockjuice, contrives an elaborate and ambiguous discourse concerning the 
gods, furnishing by his treatise gods to those who wish them, and none for those 
who are differently disposed, as may readily be seen from his own statements. 
For when he has laid down that everything that is made is mortal, he afterwards 
says that the gods were made. If, then, he would have God and matter to be the 
origin of all things, manifestly it is inevitably necessary to say that the gods 
were made of matter; but if of matter, out of which he said that evil also had 
its origin, he leaves right-thinking persons to consider what kind of beings the 
gods should be thought who are produced out of matter. For, for this very reason 
did he say that matter was eternal, that he might not seem to say that God is 
the creator of evil. And regarding the gods who were made by God, there is no 
doubt he said this: "Gods of gods, of whom I am the creator." And he manifestly 
held the correct opinion concerning the really existing God. For having heard in 
Egypt that God had said to Moses, when He was about to send him to the Hebrews, 
"I am that I am," he understood that God had not mentioned to him His own proper 
name. 
CHAPTER XXI.--THE NAMELESSNESS OF GOD. 
For God cannot be called by any proper name, for names are given to mark out 
and distinguish their subject-matters, because these are many and diverse; but 
neither did any one exist before God who could give Him a name, nor did He 
Himself think it fight to name Himself, seeing that He is one and unique, as He 
Himself also by His own prophets testifies, when He says, "I God am the first," 
and after this, "And beside me there is no other God." On this account, then, as 
I before said, God did not, when He sent Moses to the Hebrews, mention any name, 
but by a participle He mystically teaches them that He is the one and only God. 
"For," says He; "I am the Being;" manifestly contrasting Himself, "the 
Being," with those who are not, that those who had hitherto been deceived might 
see that they were attaching themselves, not to beings, but to those who had no 
being. Since, therefore, God knew that the first men remembered the old delusion 
of their forefathers, whereby the misanthropic demon contrived to deceive them 
when he said to them, "If ye obey me in transgressing the commandment of God, ye 
shall be as gods," calling those gods which had no being, in order that men, 
supposing that there were other gods in existence, might believe that they 
themselves could become gods. On this account He said to Moses, "I am the 
Being," that by the participle "being" He might teach the difference between God 
who is and those who are not. Men, therefore, having been duped by the deceiving 
demon, and having dared to disobey God, were cast out of Paradise, remembering 
the name of gods, but no longer being taught by God that there are no other 
gods. For it was not just that they who did not keep the first commandment, 
which it was easy to keep, should any longer be taught, but should rather be 
driven to just punishment. Being therefore banished from Paradise, and thinking 
that they were expelled on account of their disobedience only, not knowing that 
it was also because they had believed in the existence of gods which did not 
exist, they gave the name of gods even to the men who were afterwards born of 
themselves. This first false fancy, therefore, concerning gods, had its origin 
with the father of lies. God, therefore, knowing that the false opinion about 
the plurality of gods was burdening the soul of man like some disease, and 
wishing to remove and eradicate it, appeared first to Moses, and said to him, "I 
am He who is." For it was necessary, I think, that he who was to be the ruler 
and leader of the Hebrew people should first of all know the living God. 
Wherefore, having appeared to him first, as it was possible for God to appear to 
a man, He said to him, "I am He who is;" then, being about to send him to the 
Hebrews, He further orders him to say, "He who is hath sent me to you." 
CHAPTER XXII.--STUDIED AMBIGUITY PLATO. 
Plato accordingly having learned this in Egypt, and being greatly taken with 
what was said about one God, did indeed consider it unsafe to mention the name 
of Moses, on account of his teaching the doctrine of one only God, for he 
dreaded the Areopagus; but what is very well expressed by him in his elaborate 
treatise, the Timæus, he has written in exact correspondence with what 
Moses said regarding God, though he has done so, not as if he had learned it 
from him, but as if he were expressing his own opinion. For he said, "In my 
opinion, then, we must first define what that is which exists eternally, and has 
no generation, and what that is which is always being generated, but never 
really is." Does not this, ye men of Greece, seem to those who are able to 
understand the matter to be one and the same thing, saving only the difference 
of the article? For Moses said, "He who is," and Plato, "That which is." 
But either of the expressions seems to apply to the ever-existent God. For He is 
the only one who eternally exists, and has no generation. What, then, that other 
thing is which is contrasted with the ever-existent, and of which he said, "And 
what that is which is always being generated, but never really is," we must 
attentively consider. For we shall find him clearly and evidently saying that He 
who is unbegotten is eternal, but that those that are begotten and made are 
generated and perish--as he said of the same class, "gods of gods, of whom I am 
maker"--for he speaks in the following words: "In my opinion, then, we must 
first define what that is which is always existent and has no birth, and what 
that is which is always being generated but never really is. The former, indeed, 
which is apprehended by reflection combined with reason, always exists in the 
same way; while the latter, on the other hand, is conjectured by opinion formed 
by the perception of the senses unaided by reason, since it never really is, but 
is coming into being and perishing." These expressions declare to those who can 
rightly understand them the death and destruction of the gods that have been 
brought into being. And I think it necessary to attend to this also, that Plato 
never names him the creator, but the fashioner of the gods, although, in the 
opinion of Plato, there is considerable difference between these two. For the 
creator creates the creature by his own capability and power, being in need of 
nothing else; but the fashioner frames his production when he has received from 
matter the capability for his work. 
CHAPTER XXIII.--PLATO'S SELF-CONTRADICTION. 
But, perhaps, some who are unwilling to abandon the doctrines of polytheism, 
will say that to these fashioned gods the maker said, "Since ye have been 
produced, ye are not immortal, nor at all, imperishable; yet shall ye not perish 
nor succumb to the fatality of death, because you have obtained my will, which 
is a still greater and mightier bond." Here Plato, through fear of the adherents 
of polytheism, introduces his "maker" uttering words which contradict himself. 
For having formerly stated that he said that everything which is produced is 
perishable, he now introduces him saying the very opposite; and he does not see 
that it is thus absolutely impossible for him to escape the charge of falsehood. 
For he either at first uttered what is false when he said that everything which 
is produced is perishable, or now, when he propounds the very opposite to what 
he had formerly said. For if, according to his former definition, it is 
absolutely necessary that every created thing be perishable, how can he 
consistently make that possible which is absolutely impossible? So that Plato 
seems to grant an empty and impossible prerogative to his "maker," when he 
propounds that those who were once perishable because made from matter should 
again, by his intervention, become imperishable and enduring. For it is quite 
natural that the power of matter, which, according to Plato's opinion, is 
uncreated, and contemporary and coaeval with the maker, should resist his will. 
For he who has not created has no power, in respect of that which is uncreated, 
so that it is not possible that it(matter), being free, can be controlled by any 
external necessity. Wherefore Plato himself, in consideration of this, has 
written thus: "It is necessary to affirm that God cannot suffer violence." 
CHAPTER XXIV.--AGREEMENT OF PLATO AND HOMER. 
How, then, does Plato banish Homer from his republic, since, in the embassy 
to Achilles, he represents Phoenix as saying to Achilles, "Even the gods 
themselves are not inflexible," though Homer said this not of the king and 
Platonic maker of the gods, but of some of the multitude whom the Greeks esteem 
as gods, as one can gather from Plato's saying, "gods of gods?" For Homer, by 
that golden chain, refers all power and might to the one highest God. And the 
rest of the gods, he said, were so far distant from his divinity, that he 
thought fit to name them even along with men. At least he introduces Ulysses 
saying of Hector to Achilles, "He is raging terribly, trusting in Zeus, and 
values neither men nor gods." In this passage Homer seems to me without doubt to 
have learnt in Egypt, like Plato, concerning the one God, and plainly and openly 
to declare this, that he who trusts in the really existent God makes no account 
of those that do not exist. For thus the poet, in another passage, and employing 
another but equivalent word, to wit, a pronoun, made use of the same participle 
employed by Plato to designate the really existent God, concerning whom Plato 
said, "What that is which always exists, and has no birth." For not without a 
double sense does this expression of Phoenix seem to have been used: "Not even 
if God Himself were to promise me, that, having burnished off my old age, He 
should set me forth in the flower of youth." For the pronoun "Himself" signifies 
the really existing God. For thus, too, the oracle which was given to you 
concerning the Chaldaeans and Hebrews signifies. For when some one inquired what 
men had ever lived godly, you say the answer was: 
Only the Chaldaeans and the Hebrews found wisdom, Worshipping God 
  Himself, the unbegotten King. 
CHAPTER XXV.--PLATO'S KNOWLEDGE OF GOD'S ETERNITY. 
How, then, does Plato blame Homer for saying that the gods are not 
inflexible, although, as is obvious from the expressions used, Homer said this 
for a useful purpose? For it is the property of those who expect to obtain mercy 
by prayer and sacrifices, to cease from and repent of their sins. For those who 
think that the Deity is inflexible, are by no means moved to abandon their sins, 
since they suppose that they will derive no benefit from repentance. How, then, 
does Plato the philosopher condemn the poet Homer for saying, "Even the gods 
themselves are not inflexible," and yet himself represent the maker of the gods 
as so easily turned, that he sometimes declares the gods to be mortal, and at 
other times declares the same to be immortal? And not only concerning them, but 
also concerning matter, from which, as he says, it is necessary that the created 
gods have been produced, he sometimes says that it is uncreated, and at other 
times that it is created; and yet he does not see that he himself, when he says 
that the maker of the gods is so easily turned, is convicted of having fallen 
into the very errors for which he blames Homer, though Homer said the very 
opposite concerning the maker of the gods. For he said that he spoke thus of 
himself: 
For ne'er my promise shall deceive, or fail, Or be recall'd, 
  if with a nod confirm'd. But Plato, as it seems, unwillingly 
entered not these strange dissertations concerning the gods, for he feared those 
who were attached to polytheism. And whatever he thinks fit to tell of all that 
he had learned from Moses and the prophets concerning one God, he preferred 
delivering in a mystical style, so that those who desired to be worshippers of 
God might have an inkling of his own opinion. For being charmed with that saying 
of God to Moses, "I am the really existing," and accepting with a great deal of 
thought the brief participial expression, he understood that God desired to 
signify to Moses His eternity, and therefore said, "I am the really existing;" 
for this word "existing" expresses not one time only, but the three--the past, 
the present, and the future. For when Plato says, "and which never really is," 
he uses the verb "is" of time indefinite. For the word "never" is not spoken, as 
some suppose, of the past, but of the future time. And this has been accurately 
understood even by profane writers. And therefore, when Plato wished, as it 
were, to interpret to the uninitiated what had been mystically expressed by the 
participle concerning the eternity of God, he employed the following language: 
"God indeed, as the old tradition runs, includes the beginning, and end, and 
middle of all things." In this sentence he plainly and obviously names the law 
of Moses "the old tradition," fearing, through dread of the hemlockcup, to 
mention the name of Moses; for he understood that the teaching of the man was 
hateful to the Greeks; and he clearly enough indicates Moses by the antiquity of 
the tradition. And we have sufficiently proved from Diodorus and the rest of the 
historians, in the foregoing chapters, that the law of Moses is not only old, 
but even the first. For Diodorus says that he was the first of all lawgivers; 
the letters which belong to the Greeks, and which they employed in the writing 
of their histories, having not yet been discovered. 
CHAPTER XXVI.--PLATO INDEBTED TO THE PROPHETS. 
And let no one wonder that Plato should believe Moses regarding the eternity 
of God. For you will find him mystically referring the true knowledge of 
realities to the prophets, next in order after the really existent God. For, 
discoursing in the Timæus about certain first principles, he wrote thus: 
"This we lay down as the first principle of fire and the other bodies, 
proceeding according to probability and necessity. But the first principles of 
these again God above knows, and whosoever among men is beloved of Him." And 
what men does he think beloved of God, but Moses and the rest of the prophets? 
For their prophecies he read, and, having learned from them the doctrine of the 
judgment, he thus proclaims it in the first book of the Republic: 
When a man begins to think he is soon to die, fear invades him, 
  and concern about things which had never before entered his head. And those 
  stories about what goes on in Hades, which tell us that the man who has here 
  been unjust must there be punished, though formerly ridiculed, now torment his 
  soul with apprehensions that they may be true. And he, either through the 
  feebleness of age, or even because he is now nearer to the things of the other 
  world, views them more attentively. He becomes, therefore, full of 
  apprehension and dread, and begins to call himself to account and to consider 
  whether he has done any one an injury. And that man who finds in his life many 
  iniquities, and who continually starts from his sleep as children do, lives in 
  terror, and with a forlorn prospect. But to him who is conscious of no 
  wrong-doing, sweet hope is the constant companion and good nurse of old age, 
  as Pindar says. For this, Socrates, he has elegantly expressed, that 'whoever 
  leads a life of holiness and justice, him sweet hope, the nurse of age, 
  accompanies, cheering his heart, for she powerfully sways the changeful mind 
  of mortals.' This Plato wrote in the first book of the Republic. 
CHAPTER XXVII.--PLATO'S KNOWLEDGE OF THE JUDGEMENT. And in the tenth book he 
plainly and mani festly wrote what he had learned from the prophets about the 
judgement, not as if he had learned it from them, but, on account of his fear of 
the Greeks, as if he had heard it from a man who has been slain in battle--for 
this story he thought fit to invent--and who,when he was about to be buried on 
the twelfth day, and was lying on t he funeral pile,came to life again, and 
described the other world. The following are his every words: "For he said that 
he was present when one was asked by another person where the great Ardiaeus 
was. This Ardiaeus had been prince in a certain city of Pamphylia, and had 
killed his aged father and his elder brother, and done many other unhallowed 
deeds, as was reported. He said, then that the person who was asked said: He 
neither comes nor ever will come hither. For we saw, among other terrible 
sights, this also. When we were dose to the mouth [of the pit], and were about 
to return to the upper air, and had suffered everything else, we suddenly beheld 
both him and others likewise, most of whom were tyrants. But there were also 
some private sinners who had committed great crimes. And these, when they 
thought they were to ascend, the mouth would not permit, but bellowed when any 
of those who were so incurably wicked attempted to ascend, unless they had paid 
the full penalty. Then fierce men, fiery to look at, stood close by, and hearing 
the din,s took some and led them away; but Ardiaeus and the rest, having bound 
hand and foot, and striking their heads down, and flaying, they dragged to the 
road outside, tearing them with thorns, and signifying to those who were present 
the cause of their suffering these things, and that they were leading them away 
to cast them into Tartams. Hence, he said, that amidst all their various fears, 
this one was the greatest, lest the mouth should bellow when they ascended, 
since if it were silent each one would most gladly ascend; and that the 
punishments and torments were such as these, and that, on the other hand, the 
rewards were the reverse of these." Here Plato seems to me to have learnt from 
the prophets not only the doctrine of the judgment, but also of the 
resurrection, which the Greeks refuse to believe. For his saying that the soul 
is judged along with the body, proves nothing more clearly than that he believed 
the doctrine of the resurrection. Since how could Ardiaeus and the rest have 
undergone such punishment in Hades, had they left on earth the body, with its 
head, hands, feet, and skin? For certainly they will never say that the soul has 
a head and hands, and feet and skin. But Plato, having fallen in with the 
testimonies of the prophets in Egypt, and having accepted what they teach 
concerning the resurrection of the body, teaches that the soul is judged in 
company with the body. 
CHAPTER XXVIII.--HOMER'S OBLIGATIONS TO THE SACRED WRITERS. 
And not only Plato, but Homer also, having received similar enlightenment in 
Egypt, said that Tityus was in like manner punished. For Ulysses speaks thus to 
Alcinous when he is recounting his divination by the shades of the dead: 
There Tityus, large and long, in fetters bound, O'erspread 
  nine acres of infernal ground; Two ravenous vultures, furious for their 
  food, Scream o'er the fiend, and riot in his blood, Incessant gore the 
  liver in his breast, Th' mmortal liver grows, and gives th' immortal 
  feast. For it is plain that it is not the soul, but the body, which 
has a liver. And in the same manner he has described both Sisyphus and Tantalus 
as enduring punishment with the body. And that Homer had been in Egypt, and 
introduced into his own poem much of what he there learnt, Diodorus, the most 
esteemed of historians, plainly enough teaches us. For he said that when he was 
in Egypt he had learnt that Helen, having received from Theon's wife, Polydamna, 
a drug, "lulling all sorrow and melancholy, and causing forgetfulness of all 
ills," brought it to Sparta. And Homer said that by making use of that drug 
Helen put an end to the lamentation of Menelaus, caused by the presence of 
Telemachus. And he also called Venus "golden," from what he had seen in Egypt. 
For he had seen the temple which in Egypt is called "the temple of golden 
Venus," and the plain which is named "the plain of golden Venus." And why do I 
now make mention of this? To show that the poet transferred to his own poem much 
of what is contained in the divine writings of the prophets. And first he 
transferred what Moses had related as the beginning of the creation of the 
world. For Moses wrote thus: "In the beginning God created the heaven and the 
earth," then the sun, and the moon, and the stars. For having learned this in 
Egypt, and having been much taken with what Moses had written in the Genesis of 
the world, he fabled that Vulcan had made in the shield of Achilles a kind of 
representation of the creation of the world. For he wrote thus: 
There he described the earth, the heaven, the sea, The sun 
  that rests not, and the moon full-orb'd; There also, all the stars which 
  round about, As with a radiant frontlet, bind the skies. And he 
contrived also that the garden of Alcinous should preserve the likeness of 
Paradise, and through this likeness he represented it as ever-blooming and full 
of all fruits. For thus he wrote: 
Tall thriving trees confess'd the fruitful mould; The 
  reddening apple ripens here to gold. Here the blue fig with luscious juice 
  o'erflows, With deeper red the full pomegranate glows; The branch here 
  bends beneath the weighty pear, And verdant olives flourish round the 
  year. The balmy spirit of the western gale Eternal breathes on fruits, 
  untaught to fail; Each dropping pear a following pear supplies, On 
  apples, figs on figs arise. The same mild season gives the blooms to blow, 
  The buds to harden, and the fruits to grow. Here order'd vines in 
  equal ranks appear, With all th' united labours of the year. Some to 
  unload the fertile branches run, Some dry the blackening clusters in the 
  sun, Others to tread the liquid harvest join. The groaning presses 
  foam with floods of wine. Here are the vines in early flower descry'd 
  Here grapes discoloured on the sunny side, And there in autumn's 
  richest purple dy'd. Do not these words present a manifest and 
clear imitation of what the first prophet Moses said about Paradise? And if any 
one wish to know something of the building of the tower by which the men of that 
day fancied they would obtain access to heaven, he will find a sufficiently 
exact allegorical imitation of this in what the poet has ascribed to Otus and 
Ephialtes. For of them he wrote thus: 
Proud of their strength, and more than mortal size, The gods 
  they challenge, and affect the skies. Heav'd on Olympus tottering Ossa 
  stood; On Ossa, Pelion nods with all his wood. And the same 
holds good regarding the enemy of mankind who was cast out of heaven, whom the 
Sacred Scriptures call the Devil, a name which he obtained from his first 
devilry against man; and if any one would attentively consider the matter, he 
would find that the poet, though he certainly never mentions the name of "the 
devil," yet gives him a name from his wickedest action. For the poet, calling 
him Ate, says that he was hurled from heaven by their god, just as if he had a 
distinct remembrance of the expressions which Isaiah the prophet had uttered 
regarding him. He wrote thus in his own poem: 
And, seizing by her glossy locks The goddess Ate, in his wrath 
  he swore That never to the starry skies again, And the Olympian 
  heights, he would permit The universal mischief to return. Then, 
  whirling her around, he cast her down To earth. She, mingling with all 
  works of men, Caused many a pang to Jove. 
CHAPTER XXIX.--ORIGIN OF PLATO'S DOCTRINE OF FORM. 
And Plato, too, when he says that form is the third original principle next 
to God and matter, has manifestly received this suggestion from no other source 
than from Moses, having learned, indeed, from the words of Moses the name of 
form, but not having at the same time been instructed by the initiated, that 
without mystic insight it is impossible to have any distinct knowledge of the 
writings of Moses. For Moses wrote that God had spoken to him regarding the 
tabernacle in the following words: "And thou shalt make for me according to all 
that I show thee in the mount, the pattern of the tabernacle." And again: "And 
thou shalt erect the tabernacle according to the pattern of all the instruments 
thereof, even so shalt thou make it." And again, a little afterwards: "Thus then 
thou shalt make it according to the pattern which was showed to thee in the 
mount." Plato, then, reading these passages, and not receiving what was written 
with the suitable insight, thought that form had some kind of separate existence 
before that which the senses perceive, and he often calls it the pattern of the 
things which are made, since the writing of Moses spoke thus of the tabernacle: 
"According to the form showed to thee in the mount, so shalt thou make it." 
CHAPTER XXX.--HOMER'S KNOWLEDGE OF MAN'S ORIGIN. 
And he was obviously deceived in the same way regarding the earth and heaven 
and man; for he supposes that there are "ideas" of these. For as Moses wrote 
thus, "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth," and then subjoins 
this sentence, "And the earth was invisible and unfashioned," he thought that it 
was the pre-existent earth which was spoken of in the words, "The earth was," 
because Moses said, "And the earth was invisible and unfashioned;" and he 
thought that the earth, concerning which he says, "God created the heaven and 
the earth," was that earth which we perceive by the senses, and which God made 
according to the pre-existent form. And so also, of the heaven which was 
created, he thought that the heaven which was created--and which he also called 
the firmament--was that creation which the senses perceive; and that the heaven 
which the intellect perceives is that other of which the prophet said, "The 
heaven of heavens is the Lord's, but the earth hath He given to the children of 
men." And so also concerning man: Moses first mentions the name of man, and then 
after many other creations he makes mention of the formation of man, saying, 
"And God made man, taking dust from the earth." He thought, accordingly, that 
the man first so named existed before the man who was made, and that he who was 
formed of the earth was afterwards made according to the pre-existent form. And 
that man was formed of earth, Homer, too, having discovered from the ancient and 
divine history which says, "Dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return," 
calls the lifeless body of Hector dumb clay. For in condemnation of Achilles 
dragging the corpse of Hector after death, he says somewhere: 
On the dumb clay he cast indignity, Blinded with rage. 
And again, somewhere else, he introduces Menelaus, thus addressing 
those who were not accepting Hector's challenge to single combat with becoming 
alacrity -- 
To earth and water may you all return -- resolving them 
in his violent rage into their original and pristine formation from earth. These 
things Homer and Plato, having learned in Egypt from the ancient histories, 
wrote in their own words. 
CHAPTER XXXI.--FURTHER PROOF OF PLATO'S ACQUAINTANCE WITH SCRIPTURE. 
For from what other source, if not from his reading the writings of the 
prophets, could Plato have derived the information he gives us, that Jupiter 
drives a winged chariot in heaven? For he knew this from the following 
expressions of the prophet about the cherubim: "And the glory of the Lord went 
out from the house and rested on the cherubim; and the cherubim lift up their 
wings, and the wheels beside them; and the glory of the Lord God of Israel was 
over them above." And borrowing this idea, the magniloquent Plato shouts aloud 
with vast assurance, "The great Jove, indeed, driving his winged chariot in 
heaven." For from what other source, if not from Moses and the prophets, did he 
learn this and so write? And whence did he receive the suggestion of his saying 
that God exists in a fiery substance? Was it not from the third book of the 
history of the Kings, where it is written, "The Lord was not in the wind; and 
after the wind an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake; and after 
the earthquake a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire; and after the fire a 
still small voice?" But these things pious men must understand in a higher sense 
with profound and meditative insight. But Plato, not attending to the words with 
the suitable insight, said that God exists in a fiery substance. 
CHAPTER XXXII.--PLATO'S DOCTRINE OF THE HEAVENLY GIFT. 
And if any one will attentively consider the gift that descends from God on 
the holy men,--which gift the sacred prophets call the Holy Ghost,--he shall 
find that this was announced under another name by Plato in the dialogue with 
Meno. For, fearing to name the gift of God "the Holy Ghost," test he should 
seem, by following the teaching of the prophets, to be an enemy to the Greeks, 
he acknowledges, indeed, that it comes down from God, yet does not think fit to 
name it the Holy Ghost, but virtue. For so in the dialogue with Meno, concerning 
reminiscence, after he had put many questions regarding virtue, whether it could 
be taught or whether it could not be taught, but must be gained by practice, or 
whether it could be attained neither by practice nor by learning, but was a 
natural gift in men, or whether it comes in some other way, he makes this 
declaration in these very words: "But if now through this whole dialogue we have 
conducted our inquiry and discussion aright, virtue must be neither a natural 
gift, nor what one can receive by teaching, but comes to those to whom it does 
come by divine destiny." These things, I think, Plato having learned from the 
prophets regarding the Holy Ghost, he has manifestly transferred to what he 
calls virtue. For as the sacred prophets say that one and the same spirit is 
divided into seven spirits, so he also, naming it one and the same virtue, says 
this is divided into four virtues; wishing by all means to avoid mention of the 
Holy Spirit, but clearly declaring in a kind of allegory what the prophets said 
of the Holy Spirit. For to this effect he spoke in the dialogue with Meno 
towards the close: "From this reasoning, Meno, it appears that virtue comes to 
those to whom it does come by a divine destiny. But we shall know clearly about 
this, in what kind of way virtue comes to men, when, as a first step, we shall 
have set ourselves to investigate, as an independent inquiry, what virtue itself 
is." You see how he calls only by the name of virtue, the gift that descends 
from above; and yet he counts it worthy of inquiry, whether it is right that 
this [gift] be called virtue or some other thing, fearing to name it openly the 
Holy Spirit, lest he should seem to be following the teaching of the prophets. 
CHAPTER XXXIII.--PLATO'S IDEA OF THE BEGINNING OF TIME DRAWN FROM MOSES. 
And from what source did Plato draw the information that time was created 
along with the heavens? For he wrote thus: "Time, accordingly, was created along 
with the heavens; in order that, coming into being together, they might also be 
together dissolved, if ever their dissolution should take place." Had he not 
learned this from the divine history of Moses? For he knew that the creation of 
time had received its original constitution from days and months and years. 
Since, then, the first day which was created along with the heavens constituted 
the beginning of all time (for thus Moses wrote, "In the beginning God created 
the heavens and the earth," and then immediately subjoins, "And one day was 
made," as if he would designate the whole of time by one part of it), Plato 
names the day "time," lest, if he mentioned the "day," he should seem to lay 
himself open to the accusation of the Athenians, that he was completely adopting 
the expressions of Moses. And from what source did he derive what he has written 
regarding the dissolution of the heavens? Had he not learned this, too, from the 
sacred prophets, and did he not think that this was their doctrine? 
CHAPTER XXXIV.--WHENCE MEN ATTRIBUTED TO GOD HUMAN FORM. 
And if any person investigates the subject of images, and inquires on what 
ground those who first fashioned your gods conceived that they had the forms of 
men, he will find that this also was derived from the divine history. For seeing 
that Moses history, speaking in the person of God, says, "Let Us make man in our 
image and likeness," these persons, under the impression that this meant that 
men were like God in form, began thus to fashion their gods, supposing they 
would make a likeness from a likeness. But why, ye men of Greece, am I now 
induced to recount these things? That ye may know that it is not possible to 
learn the true religion from those who were unable, even on those subjects by 
which they won the admiration of the heathen, to write anything original, but 
merely propounded by some allegorical device in their own writings what they had 
learned from Moses and the other prophets. 
CHAPTER XXXV.--APPEAL TO THE GREEKS. 
The time, then, ye men of Greece, is now come, that ye, having been persuaded 
by the secular histories that Moses and the rest of the prophets were far more 
ancient than any of those who have been esteemed sages among you, abandon the 
ancient delusion of your forefathers, and read the divine histories of the 
prophets, and ascertain from them the true religion; for they do not present to 
you artful discourses, nor speak speciously and plausibly--for this is the 
property of those who wish to rob you of the truth--but use with simplicity the 
words and expressions which offer themselves, and declare to you whatever the 
Holy Ghost, who descended upon them, chose to teach through them to those who 
are desirous to learn the true religion. Having then laid aside all false shame, 
and the inveterate error of mankind, with all its bombastic parade and empty 
noise, though by means of it you fancy you are possessed of all advantages, do 
you give yourselves to the things that profit you. For neither will you commit 
any offence against your fathers, if you now show a desire to betake yourselves 
to that which is quite opposed to their error, since it is likely enough that 
they themselves are now lamenting in Hades, and repenting with a too late 
repentance; and if it were possible for them to show you thence what had 
befallen them after the termination of this life, ye would know from what 
fearful ills they desired to deliver you. But now, since it is not possible in 
this present life that ye either learn from them, or from those who here profess 
to teach that philosophy which is falsely so called, it follows as the one thing 
that remains for you to do, that, renouncing the error of your fathers, ye read 
the prophecies of the sacred writers, not requiring from them unexceptionable 
diction (for the matters of our religion lie in works, not in words), and learn 
from them what will give you life everlasting. For those who bootlessly disgrace 
the name of philosophy are convicted of knowing nothing at all, as they are 
themselves forced, though unwillingly, to confess, since not only do they 
disagree with each other, but also expressed their own opinions sometimes in one 
way, sometimes in another. 
CHAPTER XXXVI.--TRUE KNOWLEDGE NOT HELD BY THE PHILOSOPHERS. 
And if "the discovery of the truth" be given among them as one definition of 
philosophy, how are they who are not in possession of the true knowledge worthy 
of the name of philosophy? For if Socrates, the wisest of your wise men, to whom 
even your oracle, as you yourselves say, bears witness, saying, "Of all men 
Socrates is the wisest"--if he confesses that he knows nothing, how did those 
who came after him profess to know even things heavenly? For Socrates said that 
he was on this account called wise, because, while other men pretended to know 
what they were ignorant of, he himself did not shrink from confessing that he 
knew nothing. For he said, "I seem to myself to be wisest by this little 
particular, that what I do not know, I do not suppose I know." Let no one fancy 
that Socrates ironically reigned ignorance, because he often used to do so in 
his dialogues. For the last expression of his apology which he uttered as he was 
being led away to the prison, proves that in seriousness and truth he was 
confessing his ignorance: "But now it is time to go away, I indeed to die, but 
you to live. And which of us goes to the better state, is hidden to all but 
God." Socrates, indeed, having uttered this last sentence in the Areopagus, 
departed to the prison, ascribing to God alone the knowledge of those things 
which are hidden from us; but those who came after him, though they are unable 
to comprehend even earthly things, profess to understand things heavenly as if 
they had seen them. Aristotle at least--as if he had seen things heavenly with 
greater accuracy than Plato--declared that God did not exist, as Plato said, in 
the fiery substance (for this was Plato's doctrine) but in the fifth element, 
air. And while he demanded that concerning these matters he should be believed 
on account of the excellence of his language, he yet departed this life because 
he was overwhelmed with the infamy and disgrace of being unable to discover even 
the nature of the Euripus in Chalcis. Let not any one, therefore, of sound 
judgment prefer the elegant diction of these men to his own salvation, but let 
him, according to that old story, stop his ears with wax, and flee the sweet 
hurt which these sirens would inflict upon him. For the above-mentioned men, 
presenting their elegant language as a kind of bait, have sought to seduce many 
from the right religion, in imitation of him who dared to teach the first men 
polytheism. Be not persuaded by these persons, I entreat you, but read the 
prophecies of the sacred writers. And if any slothfulness or old hereditary 
superstition prevents you from reading the prophecies of the holy men through 
which you can be instructed regarding the one only God, which is the first 
article of the true religion, yet believe him who, though at first he taught you 
polytheism, yet afterwards preferred to sing a useful and necessary 
recantation--I mean Orpheus, who said what I quoted a little before; and believe 
the others who wrote the same things concerning one God. For it was the work of 
Divine Providence on your behalf, that they, though unwillingly, bore testimony 
that what the prophets said regarding one God was true, in order that, the 
doctrine of a plurality of gods being rejected by all, occasion might be 
afforded you of knowing the truth. 
CHAPTER XXXVII.--OF THE SIBYL. 
And you may in part easily learn the right religion from the ancient Sibyl, 
who by some kind of potent inspiration teaches you, through her oracular 
predictions, truths which seem to be much akin to the teaching of the prophets. 
She, they say, was of Babylonian extraction, being the daughter of Berosus, who 
wrote the Chaldaean History; and when she had crossed over (how, I know not) 
into the region of Campania, she there uttered her oracular sayings in a city 
called Cumae, six miles from Baiae, where the hot springs of Campania are found. 
And being in that city, we saw also a certain place, in which we were shown a 
very large basilica cut out of one stone; a vast affair, and worthy of all 
admiration. And they who had heard it from their fathers as part of their 
country's tradition, told us that it was here she used to publish her oracles. 
And in the middle of the basilica they showed us three receptacles cut out of 
one stone, in which, when filled with water, they said that she washed, and 
having put on her robe again, retires into the inmost chamber of the basilica, 
which is still a part of the one stone; and sitting in the middle of the chamber 
on a high rostrum and throne, thus proclaims her oracles. And both by many other 
writers has the Sibyl been mentioned as a prophetess, and also by Plato in his 
Phaedrus. And Plato seems to me to have counted prophets divinely inspired when 
he read her prophecies. For he saw that what she had long ago predicted was 
accomplished; and on this account he expresses in the Dialogue with Meno his 
wonder at and admiration of prophets in the following terms: "Those whom we now 
call prophetic persons we should rightly name divine. And not least would we say 
that they are divine, and are raised to the prophetic ecstasy by the inspiration 
and possession of God, when they correctly speak of many and important matters, 
and yet know nothing of what they are saying,"--plainly and manifestly referring 
to the prophecies of the Sibyl. For, unlike the poets who, after their poems are 
penned, have power to correct and polish, specially in the way of increasing the 
accuracy of their verse, she was filled indeed with prophecy at the time of the 
inspiration, but as soon as the inspiration ceased, there ceased also the 
remembrance of all she had said. And this indeed was the cause why some only, 
and not all, the metres of the verses of the Sibyl were preserved. For we 
ourselves, when in that city, ascertained from our cicerone, who showed us the 
places in which she used to prophesy, that there was a certain coffer made of 
brass in which they said that her remains were preserved. And besides all else 
which they told us as they had heard it from their fathers, they said also that 
they who then took down her prophecies, being illiterate persons, often went 
quite astray from the accuracy of the metres; and this, they said, was the cause 
of the want of metre in some of the verses, the prophetess having no remembrance 
of what she had said, after the possession and inspiration ceased, and the 
reporters having, through their lack of education, failed to record the metres 
with accuracy. And on this account, it is manifest that Plato had an eye to the 
prophecies of the Sibyl when he said this about prophets, for he said, "When 
they correctly speak of many and important matters, and yet know nothing of what 
they are saying. 
CHAPTER XXXVIII.--CONCLUDING APPEAL. 
But since, ye men of Greece, the matters of the true religion lie not in the 
metrical numbers of poetry, nor yet in that culture which is highly esteemed 
among you, do ye henceforward pay less devotion to accuracy of metres and of 
language; and giving heed without contentiousness to the words of the Sibyl, 
recognise how great are the benefits which she will confer upon you by 
predicting, as she does in a clear and patent manner, the advent of our Saviour 
Jesus Christ; who, being the Word of God, inseparable from Him in power, having 
assumed man, who had been made in the image and likeness of God, restored to us 
the knowledge of the religion of our ancient forefathers, which the men who 
lived after them abandoned through the bewitching counsel of the envious devil, 
and turned to the worship of those who were no gods. And if you still hesitate 
and are hindered from belief regarding the formation of man, believe those whom 
you have hitherto thought it right to give heed to, and know that your own 
oracle, when asked by some one to utter a hymn of praise to the Almighty God, in 
the middle of the hymn spoke thus, "Who formed the first of men, and called him 
Adam." And this hymn is preserved by many whom we know, for the conviction of 
those who are unwilling to believe the truth which all bear witness to. If 
therefore, ye men of Greece, ye do not esteem the false fancy concerning those 
that are no gods at a higher rate than your own salvation, believe, as I said, 
the most ancient and time-honoured Sibyl, whose books are preserved in all the 
world, and who by some kind of potent inspiration both teaches us in her 
oracular utterances concerning those that are called gods, that have no 
existence; and also clearly and manifestly prophesies concerning the predicted 
advent of our Saviour Jesus Christ, and concerning all those things which were 
to be done by Him. For the knowledge of these things will constitute your 
necessary preparatory training for the study of the prophecies of the sacred 
writers. And if any one supposes that he has learned the doctrine concerning God 
from the most ancient of those whom you name philosophers, let him listen to 
Ammon and Hermes: to Ammon, who in his discourse concerning God calls Him wholly 
hidden; and to Hermes, who says plainly and distinctly, "that it is difficult to 
comprehend God, and that it is impossible even for the man who can comprehend 
Him to declare Him to others." From every point of view, therefore, it must be 
seen that in no other way than only from the prophets who teach us by divine 
inspiration, is it at all possible to learn anything concerning God and the true 
religion. 

