
The Gospel of Luke












The Gospel According to St. Luke 

1:1Forasmuch as many have taken in hand to 
draw up a narrative concerning those matters which have been fulfilled among us, 
1:2even as they delivered them unto us, who 
from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word, 1:3it 
seemed good to me also, having traced the course of all things accurately from 
the first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus; 1:4that 
thou mightest know the certainty concerning the things wherein thou wast 
instructed. 1:5There was in the days of Herod, king of 
Judaea, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the course of Abijah: and he had a 
wife of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elisabeth. 1:6And they were both 
righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord 
blameless. 1:7And they had no child, because that 
Elisabeth was barren, and they both were now well stricken in years. 1:8Now 
it came to pass, while he executed the priest's office before God in the order 
of his course, 1:9according to the custom of the priest's 
office, his lot was to enter into the temple of the Lord and burn incense. 1:10And the whole multitude of the people 
were praying without at the hour of incense. 1:11And there appeared 
unto him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of altar of incense. 1:12And Zacharias was troubled when he saw 
him, and fear fell upon him. 1:13But the angel said unto him, Fear not, 
Zacharias: because thy supplication is heard, and thy wife Elisabeth shall bear 
thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John. 1:14And thou shalt have 
joy and gladness; and many shall rejoice at his birth. 1:15For he shall be 
great in the sight of the Lord, and he shall drink no wine nor strong drink; and 
he shall be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. 1:16And many of the children of Israel 
shall be turn unto the Lord their God. 1:17And he shall go before his face in the 
spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, 
and the disobedient to walk in the wisdom of the just; to make ready for 
the Lord a people prepared for him. 1:18And Zacharias said 
unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? for I am an old man, and my wife well 
stricken in years. 1:19And the angel answering said unto him, 
I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God; and I was sent to speak unto 
thee, and to bring thee these good tidings. 1:20And behold, thou 
shalt be silent and not able to speak, until the day that these things shall 
come to pass, because thou believedst not my words, which shall be fulfilled in 
their season. 1:21And the people were waiting for 
Zacharias, and they marvelled while he tarried in the temple. 1:22And when he came out, he could not 
speak unto them: and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple: and 
he continued making signs unto them, and remained dumb. 1:23And it came to 
pass, when the days of his ministration were fulfilled, he departed unto his 
house. 1:24And after these days Elisabeth his wife 
conceived; and she hid herself five months, saying, 1:25Thus hath the Lord 
done unto me in the days wherein he looked upon me, to take away my 
reproach among men. 1:26Now in the sixth month the angel 
Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee, named Nazareth, 1:27to 
a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and 
the virgin's name was Mary. 1:28And he came in unto her, and said, 
Hail, thou that art highly favored, the Lord is with thee. 1:29But she was greatly troubled at the 
saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this might be. 1:30And the angel said unto her, Fear not, 
Mary: for thou hast found favor with God. 1:31And behold, thou 
shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name 
JESUS. 1:32He shall be great, and shall be called 
the Son of the Most High: and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his 
father David: 1:33and he shall reign over the house of 
Jacob for ever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end. 1:34And Mary said unto 
the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? 1:35And the angel 
answered and said unto her, The Holy Spirit shall come upon thee, and the power 
of the Most High shall overshadow thee: wherefore also the holy thing which is 
begotten shall be called the Son of God. 1:36And behold, Elisabeth thy kinswoman, 
she also hath conceived a son in her old age; and this is the sixth month with 
her that was called barren. 1:37For no word from God shall be void of 
power. 1:38And Mary said, Behold, the handmaid of 
the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word. And the angel departed from her. 
1:39And Mary arose in these days and went 
into the hill country with haste, into a city of Judah; 1:40and entered into 
the house of Zacharias and saluted Elisabeth. 1:41And it came to 
pass, when Elisabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the babe leaped in her womb; 
and Elisabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit; 1:42and she lifted up 
her voice with a loud cry, and said, Blessed art thou among women, and 
blessed is the fruit of thy womb. 1:43And whence is this to me, that the 
mother of my Lord should come unto me? 1:44For behold, when the voice of thy 
salutation came into mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy. 1:45And blessed is she that 
believed; for there shall be a fulfilment of the things which have been spoken 
to her from the Lord. 1:46And Mary said, 
 My soul doth magnify the Lord, 
 1:47And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my 
Saviour. 
 1:48For he hath looked upon the low estate 
of his handmaid: 
 For behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. 
 1:49For he that is mighty hath done to me 
great things; 
 And holy is his name. 
 1:50And his mercy is unto generations and 
generations 
 On them that fear him. 
 1:51He hath showed strength with his arm; 
 He hath scattered the proud in the imagination of their heart. 
 1:52He hath put down princes from 
their thrones, 
 And hath exalted them of low degree. 
 1:53The hungry he hath filled with good 
things; 
 And the rich he hath sent empty away. 
 1:54He hath given help to Israel his 
servant, 
 That he might remember mercy 
 1:55(As he spake unto our fathers) 
 Toward Abraham and his seed for ever. 
1:56And Mary abode with her about three 
months, and returned unto her house. 1:57Now Elisabeth's time was fulfilled that 
she should be delivered; and she brought forth a son. 1:58And her neighbors 
and her kinsfolk heard that the Lord had magnified his mercy towards her; and 
they rejoiced with her. 1:59And it came to pass on the eighth day, 
that they came to circumcise the child; and they would have called him 
Zacharias, after the name of the father. 1:60And his mother answered and said, Not 
so; but he shall be called John. 1:61And they said unto her, There is none 
of thy kindred that is called by this name. 1:62And they made signs 
to his father, what he would have him called. 1:63And he asked for a 
writing tablet, and wrote, saying, His name is John. And they marvelled all. 1:64And his mouth was opened immediately, 
and his tongue loosed, and he spake, blessing God. 1:65And fear came on 
all that dwelt round about them: and all these sayings were noised abroad 
throughout all the hill country of Judaea. 1:66And all that heard 
them laid them up in their heart, saying, What then shall this child be? For the 
hand of the Lord was with him. 1:67And his father Zacharias was filled 
with the Holy Spirit, and prophesied, saying, 
 1:68Blessed be the Lord, the God of 
Israel; 
 For he hath visited and wrought redemption for his people, 
 1:69And hath raised up a horn of salvation 
for us 
 In the house of his servant David 
 1:70(As he spake by the mouth of his holy 
prophets that have been from of old), 
 1:71Salvation from our enemies, and from 
the hand of all that hate us; 
 1:72To show mercy towards, our fathers, 
 And to remember his holy covenant; 
 1:73The oath which he spake unto Abraham 
our father, 
 1:74To grant unto us that we being 
delivered out of the hand of our enemies 
 Should serve him without fear, 
 1:75In holiness and righteousness before 
him all our days. 
 1:76Yea and thou, child, shalt be called 
the prophet of the Most High: 
 For thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to make ready his ways; 
 1:77To give knowledge of salvation unto his 
people 
 In the remission of their sins, 
 1:78Because of the tender mercy of our God, 

 Whereby the dayspring from on high shall visit us, 
 1:79To shine upon them that sit in darkness 
and the shadow of death; 
 To guide our feet into the way of peace. 
1:80And the child grew, and waxed strong in 
spirit, and was in the deserts till the day of his showing unto Israel. 

2:1Now it came to pass in those days, there 
went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that all the world should be enrolled. 
2:2This was the first enrolment made when 
Quirinius was governor of Syria. 2:3And all went to enrol themselves, every 
one to his own city. 2:4And Joseph also went up from Galilee, 
out of the city of Nazareth, into Judaea, to the city of David, which is called 
Bethlehem, because he was of the house and family of David; 2:5to enrol himself 
with Mary, who was betrothed to him, being great with child. 2:6And it came to pass, 
while they were there, the days were fulfilled that she should be delivered. 2:7And 
she brought forth her firstborn son; and she wrapped him in swaddling clothes, 
and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. 2:8And 
there were shepherds in the same country abiding in the field, and keeping watch 
by night over their flock. 2:9And an angel of the Lord stood by them, 
and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and they were sore afraid. 2:10And the angel said unto them, Be not 
afraid; for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all 
the people: 2:11for there is born to you this day in 
the city of David a Saviour, who is Christ the Lord. 2:12And this is 
the sign unto you: Ye shall find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, and lying 
in a manger. 2:13And suddenly there was with the angel a 
multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, 
 2:14Glory to God in the highest, 
 And on earth peace among men in whom he is well pleased. 
2:15And it came to pass, when the angels 
went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another, Let us now 
go even unto Bethlehem, and see this thing that is come to pass, which the Lord 
hath made known unto us. 2:16And they came with haste, and found 
both Mary and Joseph, and the babe lying in the manger. 2:17And when they saw 
it, they made known concerning the saying which was spoken to them about this 
child. 2:18And all that heard it wondered at the 
things which were spoken unto them by the shepherds. 2:19But Mary kept all 
these sayings, pondering them in her heart. 2:20And the shepherds 
returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and 
seen, even as it was spoken unto them. 2:21And when eight days were fulfilled for 
circumcising him, his name was called JESUS, which was so called by the angel 
before he was conceived in the womb. 2:22And when the days of their purification 
according to the law of Moses were fulfilled, they brought him up to Jerusalem, 
to present him to the Lord 2:23(as it is written in the law of the 
Lord, Every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy to the Lord), 2:24and to offer a sacrifice according to 
that which is said in the law of the Lord, A pair of turtledoves, or two young 
pigeons. 2:25And behold, there was a man in 
Jerusalem whose name was Simeon; and this man was righteous and devout, looking 
for the consolation of Israel: and the Holy Spirit was upon him. 2:26And it had been revealed unto him by 
the Holy Spirit, that he should not see death, before he had seen the Lord's 
Christ. 2:27And he came in the Spirit into the 
temple: and when the parents brought in the child Jesus, that they might do 
concerning him after the custom of the law, 2:28then he received 
him into his arms, and blessed God, and said, 
 2:29Now lettest thou thy servant depart, 
Lord, 
 According to thy word, in peace; 
 2:30For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, 
 2:31Which thou hast prepared before the 
face of all peoples; 
 2:32A light for revelation to the Gentiles, 

 And the glory of thy people Israel. 
2:33And his father and his mother were 
marvelling at the things which were spoken concerning him; 2:34and Simeon blessed 
them, and said unto Mary his mother, Behold, this child is set for the 
falling and the rising of many in Israel; and for a sign which is spoken 
against; 2:35yea and a sword shall pierce through 
thine own soul; that thoughts out of many hearts may be revealed. 2:36And there was one Anna, a prophetess, 
the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher (she was of a great age, having 
lived with a husband seven years from her virginity, 2:37and she had been a 
widow even unto fourscore and four years), who departed not from the temple, 
worshipping with fastings and supplications night and day. 2:38And coming up at 
that very hour she gave thanks unto God, and spake of him to all them that were 
looking for the redemption of Jerusalem. 2:39And when they had accomplished all 
things that were according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, 
to their own city Nazareth. 2:40And the child grew, and waxed strong, 
filled with wisdom: and the grace of God was upon him. 2:41And his parents 
went every year to Jerusalem at the feast of the passover. 2:42And when he was 
twelve years old, they went up after the custom of the feast; 2:43and when they had fulfilled the days, 
as they were returning, the boy Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem; and his 
parents knew it not; 2:44but supposing him to be in the company, 
they went a day's journey; and they sought for him among their kinsfolk and 
acquaintance: 2:45and when they found him not, they 
returned to Jerusalem, seeking for him. 2:46And it came to pass, after three days 
they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both hearing 
them, and asking them questions: 2:47and all that heard him were amazed at 
his understanding and his answers. 2:48And when they saw him, they were 
astonished; and his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? 
behold, thy father and I sought thee sorrowing. 2:49And he said unto 
them, How is it that ye sought me? knew ye not that I must be in my Father's 
house? 2:50And they understood not the saying 
which he spake unto them. 2:51And he went down with them, and came to 
Nazareth; and he was subject unto them: and his mother kept all these 
sayings in her heart. 2:52And Jesus advanced in wisdom and 
stature, and in favor with God and men. 

3:1Now in the fifteenth year of the reign 
of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judaea, and Herod being 
tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of the region of Ituraea 
and Trachonitis, and Lysanias tetrarch of Abilene, 3:2in the 
highpriesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came unto John the son of 
Zacharias in the wilderness. 3:3And he came into all the region round 
about the Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance unto remission of sins; 3:4as 
it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, The voice of one 
crying in the wilderness, Make ye ready the way of the Lord, Make his paths 
straight. 3:5Every valley shall be filled, And every 
mountain and hill shall be brought low; And the crooked shall become straight, 
And the rough ways smooth; 3:6And all flesh shall see the salvation of 
God. 3:7He said therefore to the multitudes that 
went out to be baptized of him, Ye offspring of vipers, who warned you to flee 
from the wrath to come? 3:8Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of 
repentance, and begin not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our 
father: for I say unto you, that God is able of these stones to raise up 
children unto Abraham. 3:9And even now the axe also lieth at the 
root of the trees: every tree therefore that bringeth not forth good fruit is 
hewn down, and cast into the fire. 3:10And the multitudes asked him, saying, 
What then must we do? 3:11And he answered and said unto them, He 
that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none; and he that hath 
food, let him do likewise. 3:12And there came also publicans to be 
baptized, and they said unto him, Teacher, what must we do? 3:13And he said unto 
them, Extort no more than that which is appointed you. 3:14And soldiers also 
asked him, saying, And we, what must we do? And he said unto them, Extort from 
no man by violence, neither accuse any one wrongfully; and be content 
with your wages. 3:15And as the people were in expectation, 
and all men reasoned in their hearts concerning John, whether haply he were the 
Christ; 3:16John answered, saying unto them all, I 
indeed baptize you with water; but there cometh he that is mightier than I, the 
latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose: he shall baptize you in the 
Holy Spirit and in fire: 3:17whose fan is in his hand, thoroughly to 
cleanse his threshing-floor, and to gather the wheat into his garner; but the 
chaff he will burn up with unquenchable fire. 3:18With many other 
exhortations therefore preached he good tidings unto the people; 3:19but Herod the tetrarch, being reproved 
by him for Herodias his brother's wife, and for all the evil things which Herod 
had done, 3:20added this also to them all, that he 
shut up John in prison. 3:21Now it came to pass, when all the 
people were baptized, that, Jesus also having been baptized, and praying, the 
heaven was opened, 3:22and the Holy Spirit descended in a 
bodily form, as a dove, upon him, and a voice came out of heaven, Thou art my 
beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased. 3:23And Jesus himself, when he began to 
teach, was about thirty years of age, being the son (as was supposed) of 
Joseph, the son of Heli, 3:24the son of Matthat, the 
son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the 
son of Joseph, 3:25the son of Mattathias, the 
son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the 
son of Naggai, 3:26the son of Maath, the son 
of Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Josech, the 
son of Joda, 3:27the son of Joanan, the 
son of Rhesa, the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, 
the son of Neri, 3:28the son of Melchi, the 
son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmadam, the 
son of Er, 3:29the son of Jesus, the son 
of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, 
3:30the son of Symeon, the 
son of Judas, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonam, the 
son of Eliakim, 3:31the son of Melea, the son 
of Menna, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son 
of David, 3:32the son of Jesse, the son 
of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Salmon, the son of 
Nahshon, 3:33the son of Amminadab, the 
son of Arni, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the 
son of Judah, 3:34the son of Jacob, the son 
of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of 
Nahor, 3:35the son of Serug, the son 
of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of 
Shelah 3:36the son of Cainan, the 
son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the 
son of Lamech, 3:37the son of Methuselah, the 
son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the 
son of Cainan, 3:38the son of Enos, the son 
of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God. 


4:1And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, 
returned from the Jordan, and was led in the Spirit in the wilderness 4:2during forty days, being tempted of the 
devil. And he did eat nothing in those days: and when they were completed, he 
hungered. 4:3And the devil said unto him, if thou art 
the Son of God, command this stone that it become bread. 4:4And Jesus answered 
unto him, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone. 4:5And he led him up, 
and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. 4:6And 
the devil said unto him, To thee will I give all this authority, and the glory 
of them: for it hath been delivered unto me; and to whomsoever I will I give it. 
4:7If thou therefore wilt worship before 
me, it shall all be thine. 4:8And Jesus answered and said unto him, It 
is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. 
4:9And he led him to Jerusalem, and set him 
on the pinnacle of the temple, and said unto him, If thou art the Son of God, 
cast thyself down from hence: 4:10for it is written, 
 He shall give his angels charge concerning thee, to guard thee: 
4:11and, 
 On their hands they shall bear thee up, 
 Lest haply thou dash thy foot against a stone. 
4:12And Jesus answering said unto him, It 
is said, Thou shalt not make trial of the Lord thy God. 
4:13And when the devil had completed every 
temptation, he departed from him for a season. 
4:14And Jesus returned in the power of the 
Spirit into Galilee: and a fame went out concerning him through all the region 
round about. 4:15And he taught in their synagogues, 
being glorified of all. 
4:16And he came to Nazareth, where he had 
been brought up: and he entered, as his custom was, into the synagogue on the 
sabbath day, and stood up to read. 4:17And there was delivered unto him the 
book of the prophet Isaiah. And he opened the book, and found the place where it 
was written, 
 4:18The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, 
 Because he anointed me to preach good tidings to the poor: 
 He hath sent me to proclaim release to the captives, 
 And recovering of sight to the blind, 
 To set at liberty them that are bruised, 
 4:19To proclaim the acceptable year of the 
Lord. 
4:20And he closed the book, and gave it 
back to the attendant, and sat down: and the eyes of all in the synagogue were 
fastened on him. 4:21And he began to say unto them, To-day 
hath this scripture been fulfilled in your ears. 4:22And all bare him 
witness, and wondered at the words of grace which proceeded out of his mouth: 
and they said, Is not this Joseph's son? 4:23And he said unto them, Doubtless ye 
will say unto me this parable, Physician, heal thyself: whatsoever we have heard 
done at Capernaum, do also here in thine own country. 4:24And he said, Verily 
I say unto you, No prophet is acceptable in his own country. 4:25But of a truth I 
say unto you, There were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the 
heaven was shut up three years and six months, when there came a great famine 
over all the land; 4:26and unto none of them was Elijah sent, 
but only to Zarephath, in the land of Sidon, unto a woman that was a widow. 4:27And there were many lepers in Israel in 
the time of Elisha the prophet; and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman 
the Syrian. 4:28And they were all filled with wrath in 
the synagogue, as they heard these things; 4:29and they rose up, 
and cast him forth out of the city, and led him unto the brow of the hill 
whereon their city was built, that they might throw him down headlong. 4:30But he passing through the midst of 
them went his way. 4:31And he came down to Capernaum, a city 
of Galilee. And he was teaching them on the sabbath day: 4:32and they were 
astonished at his teaching; for his word was with authority. 4:33And in the 
synagogue there was a man, that had a spirit of an unclean demon; and he cried 
out with a loud voice, 4:34Ah! what have we to do with thee, Jesus 
thou Nazarene? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy 
One of God. 4:35And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy 
peace, and come out of him. And when the demon had thrown him down in the midst, 
he came out of him, having done him no hurt. 4:36And amazement came 
upon all, and they spake together, one with another, saying, What is this word? 
for with authority and power he commandeth the unclean spirits, and they come 
out. 4:37And there went forth a rumor concerning 
him into every place of the region round about. 4:38And he rose up from 
the synagogue, and entered into the house of Simon. And Simon's wife's mother 
was holden with a great fever; and they besought him for her. 4:39And he stood over her, and rebuked the 
fever; and it left her: and immediately she rose up and ministered unto them. 4:40And when the sun was setting, all they 
that had any sick with divers diseases brought them unto him; and he laid his 
hands on every one of them, and healed them. 4:41And demons also 
came out from many, crying out, and saying, Thou art the Son of God. And 
rebuking them, he suffered them not to speak, because they knew that he was the 
Christ. 4:42And when it was day, he came out and 
went into a desert place: and the multitudes sought after him, and came unto 
him, and would have stayed him, that he should not go from them. 4:43But he said unto them, I must preach 
the good tidings of the kingdom of God to the other cities also: for therefore 
was I sent. 4:44And he was preaching in the synagogues 
of Galilee. 


5:1Now it came to pass, while the multitude 
pressed upon him and heard the word of God, that he was standing by the lake of 
Gennesaret; 5:2and he saw two boats standing by the 
lake: but the fishermen had gone out of them, and were washing their nets. 5:3And 
he entered into one of the boats, which was Simon's, and asked him to put out a 
little from the land. And he sat down and taught the multitudes out of the boat. 
5:4And when he had left speaking, he said 
unto Simon, Put out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught. 5:5And 
Simon answered and said, Master, we toiled all night, and took nothing: but at 
thy word I will let down the nets. 5:6And when they had done this, they 
inclosed a great multitude of fishes; and their nets were breaking; 5:7and 
they beckoned unto their partners in the other boat, that they should come and 
help them. And they came, and filled both the boats, so that they began to sink. 
5:8But Simon Peter, when he saw it, fell 
down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me; for I am a sinful man, O Lord. 5:9For 
he was amazed, and all that were with him, at the draught of the fishes which 
they had taken; 5:10and so were also James and John, sons 
of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not; 
from henceforth thou shalt catch men. 5:11And when they had brought their boats 
to land, they left all, and followed him. 5:12And it came to 
pass, while he was in one of the cities, behold, a man full of leprosy: and when 
he saw Jesus, he fell on his face, and besought him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, 
thou canst make me clean. 5:13And he stretched forth his hand, and 
touched him, saying, I will; be thou made clean. And straightway the leprosy 
departed from him. 5:14And he charged him to tell no man: but 
go thy way, and show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, 
according as Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. 5:15But so much the 
more went abroad the report concerning him: and great multitudes came together 
to hear, and to be healed of their infirmities. 5:16But he withdrew 
himself in the deserts, and prayed. 5:17And it came to pass on one of those 
days, that he was teaching; and there were Pharisees and doctors of the law 
sitting by, who were come out of every village of Galilee and Judaea and 
Jerusalem: and the power of the Lord was with him to heal. 5:18And behold, men 
bring on a bed a man that was palsied: and they sought to bring him in, and to 
lay him before him. 5:19And not finding by what way they 
might bring him in because of the multitude, they went up to the housetop, and 
let him down through the tiles with his couch into the midst before Jesus. 5:20And seeing their faith, he said, Man, 
thy sins are forgiven thee. 5:21And the scribes and the Pharisees began 
to reason, saying, Who is this that speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, 
but God alone? 5:22But Jesus perceiving their reasonings, 
answered and said unto them, Why reason ye in your hearts? 5:23Which is easier, to 
say, Thy sins are forgiven thee; or to say, Arise and walk? 5:24But that ye may 
know that the Son of man hath authority on earth to forgive sins (he said unto 
him that was palsied), I say unto thee, Arise, and take up thy couch, and go 
unto thy house. 5:25And immediately he rose up before them, 
and took up that whereon he lay, and departed to his house, glorifying God. 5:26And amazement took hold on all, and 
they glorified God; and they were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange 
things to-day. 5:27And after these things he went forth, 
and beheld a publican, named Levi, sitting at the place of toll, and said unto 
him, Follow me. 5:28And he forsook all, and rose up and 
followed him. 5:29And Levi made him a great feast in his 
house: and there was a great multitude of publicans and of others that were 
sitting at meat with them. 5:30And the Pharisees and their scribes 
murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with the 
publicans and sinners? 5:31And Jesus answering said unto them, 
They that are in health have no need of a physician; but they that are sick. 5:32I 
am not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. 5:33And they said unto 
him, The disciples of John fast often, and make supplications; likewise also the 
disciples of the Pharisees; but thine eat and drink. 5:34And Jesus said unto 
them, Can ye make the sons of the bride-chamber fast, while the bridegroom is 
with them? 5:35But the days will come; and when the 
bridegroom shall be taken away from them, then will they fast in those days. 5:36And he spake also a parable unto them: 
No man rendeth a piece from a new garment and putteth it upon an old garment; 
else he will rend the new, and also the piece from the new will not agree with 
the old. 5:37And no man putteth new wine into old 
wine-skins; else the new wine will burst the skins, and itself will be spilled, 
and the skins will perish. 5:38But new wine must be put into fresh 
wine-skins. 5:39And no man having drunk old wine 
desireth new; for he saith, The old is good. 

6:1Now it came to pass on a sabbath, that 
he was going through the grainfields; and his disciples plucked the ears, and 
did eat, rubbing them in their hands. 6:2But certain of the Pharisees said, Why 
do ye that which it is not lawful to do on the sabbath day? 6:3And Jesus answering 
them said, Have ye not read even this, what David did, when he was hungry, he, 
and they that were with him; 6:4how he entered into the house of God, 
and took and ate the showbread, and gave also to them that were with him; which 
it is not lawful to eat save for the priests alone? 6:5And he said unto 
them, The Son of man is lord of the sabbath. 6:6And it came to pass 
on another sabbath, that he entered into the synagogue and taught: and there was 
a man there, and his right hand was withered. 6:7And the scribes and 
the Pharisees watched him, whether he would heal on the sabbath; that they might 
find how to accuse him. 6:8But he knew their thoughts; and he said 
to the man that had his hand withered, Rise up, and stand forth in the midst. 
And he arose and stood forth. 6:9And Jesus said unto them, I ask you, Is 
it lawful on the sabbath to do good, or to do harm? to save a life, or to 
destroy it? 6:10And he looked round about on them all, 
and said unto him, Stretch forth thy hand. And he did so: and his hand 
was restored. 6:11But they were filled with madness; and 
communed one with another what they might do to Jesus. 6:12And it came to pass 
in these days, that he went out into the mountain to pray; and he continued all 
night in prayer to God. 6:13And when it was day, he called his 
disciples; and he chose from them twelve, whom also he named apostles: 6:14Simon, whom he also named Peter, and 
Andrew his brother, and James and John, and Philip and Bartholomew, 6:15and Matthew and Thomas, and James 
the son of Alphaeus, and Simon who was called the Zealot, 6:16and Judas the son of James, and 
Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor; 6:17and he came down with them, and stood 
on a level place, and a great multitude of his disciples, and a great number of 
the people from all Judaea and Jerusalem, and the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, 
who came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases; 6:18and they that were 
troubled with unclean spirits were healed. 6:19And all the 
multitude sought to touch him; for power came forth from him, and healed 
them all. 6:20And he lifted up his eyes on his 
disciples, and said, Blessed are ye poor: for yours is the kingdom of 
God. 6:21Blessed are ye that hunger now: 
for ye shall be filled. Blessed are ye that weep now: for ye shall laugh. 
6:22Blessed are ye, when men shall hate 
you, and when they shall separate you from their company, and reproach 
you, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of man's sake. 6:23Rejoice in that day, and leap for 
joy: for behold, your reward is great in heaven; for in the same manner did 
their fathers unto the prophets. 6:24But woe unto you that are rich! for ye 
have received your consolation. 6:25Woe unto you, ye that are full now! for 
ye shall hunger. Woe unto you, ye that laugh now! for ye shall mourn and 
weep. 6:26Woe unto you, when all men shall 
speak well of you! for in the same manner did their fathers to the false 
prophets. 6:27But I say unto you that hear, Love your 
enemies, do good to them that hate you, 6:28bless them that curse you, pray for 
them that despitefully use you. 6:29To him that smiteth thee on the 
one cheek offer also the other; and from him that taketh away thy cloak 
withhold not thy coat also. 6:30Give to every one that asketh thee; and 
of him that taketh away thy goods ask them not again. 6:31And as ye would 
that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise. 6:32And if ye love them 
that love you, what thank have ye? for even sinners love those that love them. 
6:33And if ye do good to them that do good 
to you, what thank have ye? for even sinners do the same. 6:34And if ye lend to 
them of whom ye hope to receive, what thank have ye? even sinners lend to 
sinners, to receive again as much. 6:35But love your enemies, and do 
them good, and lend, never despairing; and your reward shall be great, 
and ye shall be sons of the Most High: for he is kind toward the unthankful and 
evil. 6:36Be ye merciful, even as your Father is 
merciful. 6:37And judge not, and ye shall not be 
judged: and condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned: release, and ye shall be 
released: 6:38give, and it shall be given unto you; 
good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, shall they give into 
your bosom. For with what measure ye mete it shall be measured to you again. 6:39And he spake also a parable unto them, 
Can the blind guide the blind? shall they not both fall into a pit? 6:40The disciple is not above his teacher: 
but every one when he is perfected shall be as his teacher. 6:41And why beholdest 
thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is 
in thine own eye? 6:42Or how canst thou say to thy brother, 
Brother, let me cast out the mote that is in thine eye, when thou thyself 
beholdest not the beam that is in thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, cast out first 
the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the 
mote that is in thy brother's eye. 6:43For there is no good tree that bringeth 
forth corrupt fruit; nor again a corrupt tree that bringeth forth good fruit. 6:44For each tree is known by its own 
fruit. For of thorns men do not gather figs, nor of a bramble bush gather they 
grapes. 6:45The good man out of the good treasure 
of his heart bringeth forth that which is good; and the evil man out of 
the evil treasure bringeth forth that which is evil: for out of the 
abundance of the heart his mouth speaketh. 6:46And why call ye me, 
Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? 6:47Every one that 
cometh unto me, and heareth my words, and doeth them, I will show you to whom he 
is like: 6:48he is like a man building a house, who 
digged and went deep, and laid a foundation upon the rock: and when a flood 
arose, the stream brake against that house, and could not shake it: because it 
had been well builded. 6:49But he that heareth, and doeth not, is 
like a man that built a house upon the earth without a foundation; against which 
the stream brake, and straightway it fell in; and the ruin of that house was 
great. 

7:1After he had ended all his sayings in 
the ears of the people, he entered into Capernaum. 7:2And a certain 
centurion's servant, who was dear unto him, was sick and at the point of death. 
7:3And when he heard concerning Jesus, he 
sent unto him elders of the Jews, asking him that he would come and save his 
servant. 7:4And they, when they came to Jesus, 
besought him earnestly, saying, He is worthy that thou shouldest do this for 
him; 7:5for he loveth our nation, and himself 
built us our synagogue. 7:6And Jesus went with them. And when he 
was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying unto 
him, Lord, trouble not thyself; for I am not worthy that thou shouldest come 
under my roof: 7:7wherefore neither thought I myself 
worthy to come unto thee: but say the word, and my servant shall be healed. 7:8For 
I also am a man set under authority, having under myself soldiers: and I say to 
this one, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my 
servant, Do this, and he doeth it. 7:9And when Jesus heard these things, he 
marvelled at him, and turned and said unto the multitude that followed him, I 
say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. 7:10And they that were sent, returning to 
the house, found the servant whole. 7:11And it came to pass soon afterwards, 
that he went to a city called Nain; and his disciples went with him, and a great 
multitude. 7:12Now when he drew near to the gate of 
the city, behold, there was carried out one that was dead, the only son of his 
mother, and she was a widow: and much people of the city was with her. 7:13And when the Lord saw her, he had 
compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not. 7:14And he came nigh 
and touched the bier: and the bearers stood still. And he said, Young man, I say 
unto thee, Arise. 7:15And he that was dead sat up, and began 
to speak. And he gave him to his mother. 7:16And fear took hold on all: and they 
glorified God, saying, A great prophet is arisen among us: and, God hath visited 
his people. 7:17And this report went forth concerning 
him in the whole of Judaea, and all the region round about. 7:18And the disciples 
of John told him of all these things. 7:19And John calling unto him two of his 
disciples sent them to the Lord, saying, Art thou he that cometh, or look we for 
another? 7:20And when the men were come unto him, 
they said, John the Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that 
cometh, or look we for another? 7:21In that hour he cured many of diseases 
and plagues and evil spirits; and on many that were blind he bestowed sight. 7:22And he answered and said unto them, Go 
and tell John the things which ye have seen and heard; the blind receive their 
sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are 
raised up, the poor have good tidings preached to them. 7:23And blessed is he, 
whosoever shall find no occasion of stumbling in me. 7:24And when the 
messengers of John were departed, he began to say unto the multitudes concerning 
John, What went ye out into the wilderness to behold? a reed shaken with the 
wind? 7:25But what went ye out to see? a man 
clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they that are gorgeously apparelled, and live 
delicately, are in kings' courts. 7:26But what went ye out to see? a prophet? 
Yea, I say unto you, and much more than a prophet. 7:27This is he of whom 
it is written, 
 Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, 
 Who shall prepare thy way before thee. 
7:28I say unto you, Among them that are 
born of women there is none greater than John: yet he that is but little in the 
kingdom of God is greater than he. 7:29And all the people when they heard, and 
the publicans, justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John. 7:30But the Pharisees and the lawyers 
rejected for themselves the counsel of God, being not baptized of him. 7:31Whereunto then shall I liken the men of 
this generation, and to what are they like? 7:32They are like unto 
children that sit in the marketplace, and call one to another; who say, We piped 
unto you, and ye did not dance; we wailed, and ye did not weep. 7:33For John the Baptist is come eating no 
bread nor drinking wine; and ye say, He hath a demon. 7:34The Son of man is 
come eating and drinking; and ye say, Behold, a gluttonous man, and a 
winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners! 7:35And wisdom is 
justified of all her children. 7:36And one of the Pharisees desired him 
that he would eat with him. And he entered into the Pharisee's house, and sat 
down to meat. 7:37And behold, a woman who was in the 
city, a sinner; and when she knew that he was sitting at meat in the Pharisee's 
house, she brought an alabaster cruse of ointment, 7:38and standing behind 
at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears, and wiped them 
with the hair of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the 
ointment. 7:39Now when the Pharisee that had bidden 
him saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, 
would have perceived who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him, 
that she is a sinner. 7:40And Jesus answering said unto him, 
Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee. And he saith, Teacher, say on. 7:41A 
certain lender had two debtors: the one owed five hundred shillings, and the 
other fifty. 7:42When they had not wherewith to 
pay, he forgave them both. Which of them therefore will love him most? 7:43Simon answered and said, He, I suppose, 
to whom he forgave the most. And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged. 7:44And turning to the woman, he said unto 
Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entered into thy house, thou gavest me no water 
for my feet: but she hath wetted my feet with her tears, and wiped them with her 
hair. 7:45Thou gavest me no kiss: but she, since 
the time I came in, hath not ceased to kiss my feet. 7:46My head with oil 
thou didst not anoint: but she hath anointed my feet with ointment. 7:47Wherefore I say unto thee, Her sins, 
which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much: but to whom little is 
forgiven, the same loveth little. 7:48And he said unto her, Thy sins are 
forgiven. 7:49And they that sat at meat with him 
began to say within themselves, Who is this that even forgiveth sins? 7:50And he said unto the woman, Thy faith 
hath saved thee; go in peace. 


8:1And it came to pass soon afterwards, 
that he went about through cities and villages, preaching and bringing the good 
tidings of the kingdom of God, and with him the twelve, 8:2and certain women 
who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary that was called 
Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out, 8:3and Joanna the wife 
of Chuzas Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others, who ministered unto 
them of their substance. 8:4And when a great multitude came 
together, and they of every city resorted unto him, he spake by a parable: 8:5The 
sower went forth to sow his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; 
and it was trodden under foot, and the birds of the heaven devoured it. 8:6And 
other fell on the rock; and as soon as it grew, it withered away, because it had 
no moisture. 8:7And other fell amidst the thorns; and 
the thorns grew with it, and choked it. 8:8And other fell into the good ground, and 
grew, and brought forth fruit a hundredfold. As he said these things, he cried, 
He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. 8:9And his disciples asked him what this 
parable might be. 8:10And he said, Unto you it is given to 
know the mysteries of the kingdom of God: but to the rest in parables; that 
seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand. 8:11Now the parable is this: The seed is 
the word of God. 8:12And those by the way side are they that 
have heard; then cometh the devil, and taketh away the word from their heart, 
that they may not believe and be saved. 8:13And those on the rock are they 
who, when they have heard, receive the word with joy; and these have no root, 
who for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away. 8:14And that which fell among the thorns, 
these are they that have heard, and as they go on their way they are choked with 
cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to 
perfection. 8:15And that in the good ground, these are 
such as in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, hold it fast, and 
bring forth fruit with patience. 8:16And no man, when he hath lighted a 
lamp, covereth it with a vessel, or putteth it under a bed; but putteth it on a 
stand, that they that enter in may see the light. 8:17For nothing is hid, 
that shall not be made manifest; nor anything secret, that shall not be 
known and come to light. 8:18Take heed therefore how ye hear: for 
whosoever hath, to him shall be given; and whosoever hath not, from him shall be 
taken away even that which he thinketh he hath. 8:19And there came to 
him his mother and brethren, and they could not come at him for the crowd. 8:20And it was told him, Thy mother and thy 
brethren stand without, desiring to see thee. 8:21But he answered and 
said unto them, My mother and my brethren are these that hear the word of God, 
and do it. 8:22Now it came to pass on one of those 
days, that he entered into a boat, himself and his disciples; and he said unto 
them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake: and they launched forth. 
8:23But as they sailed he fell asleep: and 
there came down a storm of wind on the lake; and they were filling with 
water, and were in jeopardy. 8:24And they came to him, and awoke him, 
saying, Master, master, we perish. And he awoke, and rebuked the wind and the 
raging of the water: and they ceased, and there was a calm. 8:25And he said unto 
them, Where is your faith? And being afraid they marvelled, saying one to 
another, Who then is this, that he commandeth even the winds and the water, and 
they obey him? 8:26And they arrived at the country of the 
Gerasenes, which is over against Galilee. 8:27And when he was 
come forth upon the land, there met him a certain man out of the city, who had 
demons; and for a long time he had worn no clothes, and abode not in any 
house, but in the tombs. 8:28And when he saw Jesus, he cried out, 
and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with 
thee, Jesus, thou Son of the Most High God? I beseech thee, torment me not. 8:29For he was commanding the unclean 
spirit to come out from the man. For oftentimes it had seized him: and he was 
kept under guard, and bound with chains and fetters; and breaking the bands 
asunder, he was driven of the demon into the deserts. 8:30And Jesus asked 
him, What is thy name? And he said, Legion; for many demons were entered into 
him. 8:31And they entreated him that he would 
not command them to depart into the abyss. 8:32Now there was there 
a herd of many swine feeding on the mountain: and they entreated him that he 
would give them leave to enter into them. And he gave them leave. 8:33And the demons came out from the man, 
and entered into the swine: and the herd rushed down the steep into the lake, 
and were drowned. 8:34And when they that fed them saw what 
had come to pass, they fled, and told it in the city and in the country. 8:35And they went out to see what had come 
to pass; and they came to Jesus, and found the man, from whom the demons were 
gone out, sitting, clothed and in his right mind, at the feet of Jesus: and they 
were afraid. 8:36And they that saw it told them how he 
that was possessed with demons was made whole. 8:37And all the people 
of the country of the Gerasenes round about asked him to depart from them, for 
they were holden with great fear: and he entered into a boat, and returned. 8:38But the man from whom the demons were 
gone out prayed him that he might be with him: but he sent him away, saying, 8:39Return to thy house, and declare how 
great things God hath done for thee. And he went his way, publishing throughout 
the whole city how great things Jesus had done for him. 8:40And as Jesus 
returned, the multitude welcomed him; for they were all waiting for him. 8:41And behold, there came a man named 
Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue: and he fell down at Jesus' feet, 
and besought him to come into his house; 8:42for he had an only daughter, about 
twelve years of age, and she was dying. But as he went the multitudes thronged 
him. 8:43And a woman having an issue of blood 
twelve years, who had spent all her living upon physicians, and could not be 
healed of any, 8:44came behind him, and touched the border 
of his garment: and immediately the issue of her blood stanched. 8:45And Jesus said, Who is it that touched 
me? And when all denied, Peter said, and they that were with him, Master, the 
multitudes press thee and crush thee. 8:46But Jesus said, 
Some one did touch me; for I perceived that power had gone forth from me. 8:47And when the woman saw that she was not 
hid, she came trembling, and falling down before him declared in the presence of 
all the people for what cause she touched him, and how she was healed 
immediately. 8:48And he said unto her, Daughter, thy 
faith hath made thee whole; go in peace. 8:49While he yet spake, there cometh one 
from the ruler of the synagogue's house, saying, Thy daughter is dead; 
trouble not the Teacher. 8:50But Jesus hearing it, answered him, 
Fear not: only believe, and she shall be made whole. 8:51And when he came to 
the house, he suffered not any man to enter in with him, save Peter, and John, 
and James, and the father of the maiden and her mother. 8:52And all were 
weeping, and bewailing her: but he said, Weep not; for she is not dead, but 
sleepeth. 8:53And they laughed him to scorn, knowing 
that she was dead. 8:54But he, taking her by the hand, called, 
saying, Maiden, arise. 8:55And her spirit returned, and she rose 
up immediately: and he commanded that something be given her to eat. 8:56And her parents were amazed: but he 
charged them to tell no man what had been done. 

9:1And he called the twelve together, and 
gave them power and authority over all demons, and to cure diseases. 9:2And 
he sent them forth to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick. 9:3And 
he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staff, nor wallet, nor 
bread, nor money; neither have two coats. 9:4And into whatsoever house ye enter, 
there abide, and thence depart. 9:5And as many as receive you not, when ye 
depart from that city, shake off the dust from your feet for a testimony against 
them. 9:6And they departed, and went throughout 
the villages, preaching the gospel, and healing everywhere. 9:7Now Herod the 
tetrarch heard of all that was done: and he was much perplexed, because that it 
was said by some, that John was risen from the dead; 9:8and by some, that 
Elijah had appeared; and by others, that one of the old prophets was risen 
again. 9:9And Herod said, John I beheaded: but who 
is this, about whom I hear such things? And he sought to see him. 9:10And the apostles, when they were 
returned, declared unto him what things they had done. And he took them, and 
withdrew apart to a city called Bethsaida. 9:11But the multitudes 
perceiving it followed him: and he welcomed them, and spake to them of the 
kingdom of God, and them that had need of healing he cured. 9:12And the day began 
to wear away; and the twelve came, and said unto him, Send the multitude away, 
that they may go into the villages and country round about, and lodge, and get 
provisions: for we are here in a desert place. 9:13But he said unto 
them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, We have no more than five loaves and 
two fishes; except we should go and buy food for all this people. 9:14For they were about five thousand men. 
And he said unto his disciples, Make them sit down in companies, about fifty 
each. 9:15And they did so, and made them all sit 
down. 9:16And he took the five loaves and the two 
fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and brake; and gave to the 
disciples to set before the multitude. 9:17And they ate, and were all filled: and 
there was taken up that which remained over to them of broken pieces, twelve 
baskets. 9:18And it came to pass, as he was praying 
apart, the disciples were with him: and he asked them, saying, Who do the 
multitudes say that I am? 9:19And they answering said, John the 
Baptist; but others say, Elijah; and others, that one of the old prophets 
is risen again. 9:20And he said unto them, But who say ye 
that I am? And Peter answering said, The Christ of God. 9:21But he charged 
them, and commanded them to tell this to no man; 9:22saying, The Son of 
man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and 
scribes, and be killed, and the third day be raised up. 9:23And he said unto 
all, If any man would come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross 
daily, and follow me. 9:24For whosoever would save his life shall 
lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it. 
9:25For what is a man profited, if he gain 
the whole world, and lose or forfeit his own self? 9:26For whosoever shall 
be ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when 
he cometh in his own glory, and the glory of the Father, and of the holy 
angels. 9:27But I tell you of a truth, There are 
some of them that stand here, who shall in no wise taste of death, till they see 
the kingdom of God. 9:28And it came to pass about eight days 
after these sayings, that he took with him Peter and John and James, and went up 
into the mountain to pray. 9:29And as he was praying, the fashion of 
his countenance was altered, and his raiment became white and 
dazzling. 9:30And behold, there talked with him two 
men, who were Moses and Elijah; 9:31who appeared in glory, and spake of his 
decease which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. 9:32Now Peter and they 
that were with him were heavy with sleep: but when they were fully awake, they 
saw his glory, and the two men that stood with him. 9:33And it came to 
pass, as they were parting from him, Peter said unto Jesus, Master, it is good 
for us to be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for 
Moses, and one for Elijah: not knowing what he said. 9:34And while he said 
these things, there came a cloud, and overshadowed them: and they feared as they 
entered into the cloud. 9:35And a voice came out of the cloud, 
saying, This is my Son, my chosen: hear ye him. 9:36And when the voice 
came, Jesus was found alone. And they held their peace, and told no man in those 
days any of the things which they had seen. 9:37And it came to 
pass, on the next day, when they were come down from the mountain, a great 
multitude met him. 9:38And behold, a man from the multitude 
cried, saying, Teacher, I beseech thee to look upon my son; for he is mine only 
child: 9:39and behold, a spirit taketh him, and he 
suddenly crieth out; and it teareth him that he foameth, and it hardly departeth 
from him, bruising him sorely. 9:40And I besought thy disciples to cast it 
out; and they could not. 9:41And Jesus answered and said, O 
faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you, and bear with 
you? bring hither thy son. 9:42And as he was yet a coming, the demon 
dashed him down, and tare him grievously. But Jesus rebuked the unclean 
spirit, and healed the boy, and gave him back to his father. 9:43And they were all 
astonished at the majesty of God. But while all were marvelling at all the 
things which he did, he said unto his disciples, 9:44Let these words 
sink into your ears: for the Son of man shall be delivered up into the hands of 
men. 9:45But they understood not this saying, 
and it was concealed from them, that they should not perceive it; and they were 
afraid to ask him about this saying. 9:46And there arose a reasoning among them, 
which of them was the greatest. 9:47But when Jesus saw the reasoning of 
their heart, he took a little child, and set him by his side, 9:48and said unto them, Whosoever shall 
receive this little child in my name receiveth me: and whosoever shall receive 
me receiveth him that sent me: for he that is least among you all, the same is 
great. 9:49And John answered and said, Master, we 
saw one casting out demons in thy name; and we forbade him, because he followeth 
not with us. 9:50But Jesus said unto him, Forbid 
him not: for he that is not against you is for you. 9:51And it came to 
pass, when the days were well-nigh come that he should be received up, he 
stedfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem, 9:52and sent messengers 
before his face: and they went, and entered into a village of the Samaritans, to 
make ready for him. 9:53And they did not receive him, because 
his face was as though he were going to Jerusalem. 9:54And when his 
disciples James and John saw this, they said, Lord, wilt thou that we bid 
fire to come down from heaven, and consume them? 9:55But he turned, and 
rebuked them. 9:56And they went to another village. 9:57And as they went on the way, a certain 
man said unto him, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. 9:58And Jesus said unto him, The foxes have 
holes, and the birds of the heaven have nests; but the Son of man hath 
not where to lay his head. 9:59And he said unto another, Follow me. 
But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. 9:60But he said unto 
him, Leave the dead to bury their own dead; but go thou and publish abroad the 
kingdom of God. 9:61And another also said, I will follow 
thee, Lord; but first suffer me to bid farewell to them that are at my house. 9:62But Jesus said unto him, No man, having 
put his hand to the plow, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God. 

10:1Now after these things the Lord 
appointed seventy others, and sent them two and two before his face into every 
city and place, whither he himself was about to come. 10:2And he said unto 
them, The harvest indeed is plenteous, but the laborers are few: pray ye 
therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he send forth laborers into his harvest. 
10:3Go your ways; behold, I send you forth 
as lambs in the midst of wolves. 10:4Carry no purse, no wallet, no shoes; 
and salute no man on the way. 10:5And into whatsoever house ye shall 
enter, first say, Peace be to this house. 10:6And if a son of 
peace be there, your peace shall rest upon him: but if not, it shall turn to you 
again. 10:7And in that same house remain, eating 
and drinking such things as they give: for the laborer is worthy of his hire. Go 
not from house to house. 10:8And into whatsoever city ye enter, and 
they receive you, eat such things as are set before you: 10:9and heal the sick 
that are therein, and say unto them, The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you. 
10:10But into whatsoever city ye shall 
enter, and they receive you not, go out into the streets thereof and say, 10:11Even the dust from your city, that 
cleaveth to our feet, we wipe off against you: nevertheless know this, that the 
kingdom of God is come nigh. 10:12I say unto you, it shall be more 
tolerable in that day for Sodom, than for that city. 10:13Woe unto thee, 
Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works had been done in 
Tyre and Sidon, which were done in you, they would have repented long ago, 
sitting in sackcloth and ashes. 10:14But it shall be more tolerable for 
Tyre and Sidon in the judgment, than for you. 10:15And thou, 
Capernaum, shalt thou be exalted unto heaven? thou shalt be brought down unto 
Hades. 10:16He that heareth you heareth me; and he 
that rejecteth you rejecteth me; and he that rejecteth me rejecteth him that 
sent me. 10:17And the seventy returned with joy, 
saying, Lord, even the demons are subject unto us in thy name. 10:18And he said unto them, I beheld Satan 
fallen as lightning from heaven. 10:19Behold, I have given you authority to 
tread upon serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy: and 
nothing shall in any wise hurt you. 10:20Nevertheless in this rejoice not, that 
the spirits are subject unto you; but rejoice that your names are written in 
heaven. 10:21In that same hour he rejoiced in the 
Holy Spirit, and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that 
thou didst hide these things from the wise and understanding, and didst reveal 
them unto babes: yea, Father; for so it was well-pleasing in thy sight. 10:22All things have been delivered unto me 
of my Father: and no one knoweth who the Son is, save the Father; and who the 
Father is, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son willeth to reveal 
him. 10:23And turning to the disciples, he said 
privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things that ye see: 10:24for I say unto you, that many prophets 
and kings desired to see the things which ye see, and saw them not; and to hear 
the things which ye hear, and heard them not. 10:25And behold, a 
certain lawyer stood up and made trial of him, saying, Teacher, what shall I do 
to inherit eternal life? 10:26And he said unto him, What is written 
in the law? how readest thou? 10:27And he answering said, Thou shalt love 
the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy 
strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself. 10:28And he said unto him, Thou hast 
answered right: this do, and thou shalt live. 10:29But he, desiring 
to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbor? 10:30Jesus made answer and said, A certain 
man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho; and he fell among robbers, who 
both stripped him and beat him, and departed, leaving him half dead. 10:31And by chance a certain priest was 
going down that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. 10:32And in like manner a Levite also, when 
he came to the place, and saw him, passed by on the other side. 10:33But a certain Samaritan, as he 
journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he was moved with compassion, 
10:34and came to him, and bound up his 
wounds, pouring on them oil and wine; and he set him on his own beast, 
and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. 10:35And on the morrow 
he took out two shillings, and gave them to the host, and said, Take care of 
him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, I, when I come back again, will repay 
thee. 10:36Which of these three, thinkest thou, 
proved neighbor unto him that fell among the robbers? 10:37And he said, He 
that showed mercy on him. And Jesus said unto him, Go, and do thou likewise. 10:38Now as they went on their way, he 
entered into a certain village: and a certain woman named Martha received him 
into her house. 10:39And she had a sister called Mary, who 
also sat at the Lord's feet, and heard his word. 10:40But Martha was 
cumbered about much serving; and she came up to him, and said, Lord, dost thou 
not care that my sister did leave me to serve alone? bid her therefore that she 
help me. 10:41But the Lord answered and said unto 
her, Martha, Martha, thou art anxious and troubled about many things: 10:42but one thing is needful: for Mary 
hath chosen the good part, which shall not be taken away from her. 

11:1And it came to pass, as he was praying 
in a certain place, that when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, 
Lord, teach us to pray, even as John also taught his disciples. 11:2And he said unto them, When ye pray, 
say, Father, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. 11:3Give us day by day 
our daily bread. 11:4And forgive us our sins; for we 
ourselves also forgive every one that is indebted to us. And bring us not into 
temptation. 11:5And he said unto them, Which of you 
shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight, and say to him, Friend, 
lend me three loaves; 11:6for a friend of mine is come to me from 
a journey, and I have nothing to set before him; 11:7and he from within 
shall answer and say, Trouble me not: the door is now shut, and my children are 
with me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee? 11:8I say unto you, 
Though he will not rise and give him because he is his friend, yet because of 
his importunity he will arise and give him as many as he needeth. 11:9And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall 
be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. 
11:10For every one that asketh receiveth; 
and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. 11:11And of which of you that is a father 
shall his son ask a loaf, and he give him a stone? or a fish, and he for a fish 
give him a serpent? 11:12Or if he shall ask an egg, will 
he give him a scorpion? 11:13If ye then, being evil, know how to 
give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly 
Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? 11:14And he was casting 
out a demon that was dumb. And it came to pass, when the demon was gone 
out, the dumb man spake; and the multitudes marvelled. 11:15But some of them 
said, By Beelzebub the prince of the demons casteth he out demons. 11:16And others, trying him, sought 
of him a sign from heaven. 11:17But he, knowing their thoughts, said 
unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and a 
house divided against a house falleth. 11:18And if Satan also 
is divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? because ye say that I 
cast out demons by Beelzebub. 11:19And if I by Beelzebub cast out demons, 
by whom do your sons cast them out? therefore shall they be your judges. 11:20But if I by the finger of God cast out 
demons, then is the kingdom of God come upon you. 11:21When the strong 
man fully armed guardeth his own court, his goods are in peace: 11:22but when a stronger than he shall come 
upon him, and overcome him, he taketh from him his whole armor wherein he 
trusted, and divideth his spoils. 11:23He that is not with me is against me; 
and he that gathereth not with me scattereth. 11:24The unclean spirit 
when he is gone out of the man, passeth through waterless places, seeking rest, 
and finding none, he saith, I will turn back unto my house whence I came out. 11:25And when he is come, he findeth it 
swept and garnished. 11:26Then goeth he, and taketh to 
him seven other spirits more evil than himself; and they enter in and dwell 
there: and the last state of that man becometh worse than the first. 11:27And it came to pass, as he said these 
things, a certain woman out of the multitude lifted up her voice, and said unto 
him, Blessed is the womb that bare thee, and the breasts which thou didst suck. 
11:28But he said, Yea rather, blessed are 
they that hear the word of God, and keep it. 11:29And when the 
multitudes were gathering together unto him, he began to say, This generation is 
an evil generation: it seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to 
it but the sign of Jonah. 11:30For even as Jonah became a sign unto 
the Ninevites, so shall also the Son of man be to this generation. 11:31The queen of the south shall rise up 
in the judgment with the men of this generation, and shall condemn them: for she 
came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, a 
greater than Solomon is here. 11:32The men of Nineveh shall stand up in 
the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: for they repented at 
the preaching of Jonah; and behold, a greater than Jonah is here. 11:33No man, when he hath lighted a lamp, 
putteth it in a cellar, neither under the bushel, but on the stand, that they 
which enter in may see the light. 11:34The lamp of thy body is thine eye: 
when thine eye is single, thy whole body also is full of light; but when it is 
evil, thy body also is full of darkness. 11:35Look therefore 
whether the light that is in thee be not darkness. 11:36If therefore thy 
whole body be full of light, having no part dark, it shall be wholly full of 
light, as when the lamp with its bright shining doth give thee light. 11:37Now as he spake, a Pharisee asketh him 
to dine with him: and he went in, and sat down to meat. 11:38And when the 
Pharisee saw it, he marvelled that he had not first bathed himself before 
dinner. 11:39And the Lord said unto him, Now ye the 
Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the platter; but your inward 
part is full of extortion and wickedness. 11:40Ye foolish ones, 
did not he that made the outside make the inside also? 11:41But give for alms 
those things which are within; and behold, all things are clean unto you. 11:42But woe unto you Pharisees! for ye 
tithe mint and rue and every herb, and pass over justice and the love of God: 
but these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone. 11:43Woe unto you Pharisees! for ye love 
the chief seats in the synagogues, and the salutations in the marketplaces. 11:44Woe unto you! for ye are as the tombs 
which appear not, and the men that walk over them know it not. 11:45And one of the lawyers answering saith 
unto him, Teacher, in saying this thou reproachest us also. 11:46And he said, Woe 
unto you lawyers also! for ye load men with burdens grievous to be borne, and ye 
yourselves touch not the burdens with one of your fingers. 11:47Woe unto you! for 
ye build the tombs of the prophets, and your fathers killed them. 11:48So ye are witnesses and consent unto 
the works of your fathers: for they killed them, and ye build their 
tombs. 11:49Therefore also said the wisdom of God, 
I will send unto them prophets and apostles; and some of them they shall 
kill and persecute; 11:50that the blood of all the prophets, 
which was shed from the foundation of the world, may be required of this 
generation; 11:51from the blood of Abel unto the blood 
of Zachariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary: yea, I say unto 
you, it shall be required of this generation. 11:52Woe unto you 
lawyers! for ye took away the key of knowledge: ye entered not in yourselves, 
and them that were entering in ye hindered. 11:53And when he was 
come out from thence, the scribes and the Pharisees began to press upon 
him vehemently, and to provoke him to speak of many things; 11:54laying wait for him, to catch 
something out of his mouth. 

12:1In the mean time, when the many 
thousands of the multitude were gathered together, insomuch that they trod one 
upon another, he began to say unto his disciples first of all, Beware ye of the 
leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. 12:2But there is 
nothing covered up, that shall not be revealed; and hid, that shall not be 
known. 12:3Wherefore whatsoever ye have said in 
the darkness shall be heard in the light; and what ye have spoken in the ear in 
the inner chambers shall be proclaimed upon the housetops. 12:4And I say unto you 
my friends, Be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after that have no 
more that they can do. 12:5But I will warn you whom ye shall fear: 
Fear him, who after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell; yea, I say unto 
you, Fear him. 12:6Are not five sparrows sold for two 
pence? and not one of them is forgotten in the sight of God. 12:7But the very hairs 
of your head are all numbered. Fear not: ye are of more value than many 
sparrows. 12:8And I say unto you, Every one who shall 
confess me before men, him shall the Son of man also confess before the angels 
of God: 12:9but he that denieth me in the presence 
of men shall be denied in the presence of the angels of God. 12:10And every one who shall speak a word 
against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but unto him that blasphemeth 
against the Holy Spirit it shall not be forgiven. 12:11And when they 
bring you before the synagogues, and the rulers, and the authorities, be not 
anxious how or what ye shall answer, or what ye shall say: 12:12for the Holy 
Spirit shall teach you in that very hour what ye ought to say. 12:13And one out of the multitude said unto 
him, Teacher, bid my brother divide the inheritance with me. 12:14But he said unto him, Man, who made me 
a judge or a divider over you? 12:15And he said unto them, Take heed, and 
keep yourselves from all covetousness: for a man's life consisteth not in the 
abundance of the things which he possesseth. 12:16And he spake a 
parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth 
plentifully: 12:17and he reasoned within himself, 
saying, What shall I do, because I have not where to bestow my fruits? 12:18And he said, This will I do: I will 
pull down my barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my grain and 
my goods. 12:19And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou 
hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, be merry. 
12:20But God said unto him, Thou foolish 
one, this night is thy soul required of thee; and the things which thou hast 
prepared, whose shall they be? 12:21So is he that layeth up treasure for 
himself, and is not rich toward God. 12:22And he said unto his disciples, 
Therefore I say unto you, Be not anxious for your life, what ye shall 
eat; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. 12:23For the life is 
more than the food, and the body than the raiment. 12:24Consider the 
ravens, that they sow not, neither reap; which have no store-chamber nor barn; 
and God feedeth them: of how much more value are ye than the birds! 12:25And which of you by being anxious can 
add a cubit unto the measure of his life? 12:26If then ye are not 
able to do even that which is least, why are ye anxious concerning the rest? 12:27Consider the lilies, how they grow: 
they toil not, neither do they spin; yet I say unto you, Even Solomon in all his 
glory was not arrayed like one of these. 12:28But if God doth so 
clothe the grass in the field, which to-day is, and to-morrow is cast into the 
oven; how much more shall he clothe you, O ye of little faith? 12:29And seek not ye what ye shall eat, and 
what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind. 12:30For all these 
things do the nations of the world seek after: but your Father knoweth that ye 
have need of these things. 12:31Yet seek ye his kingdom, and these 
things shall be added unto you. 12:32Fear not, little flock; for it is your 
Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. 12:33Sell that which ye 
have, and give alms; make for yourselves purses which wax not old, a treasure in 
the heavens that faileth not, where no thief draweth near, neither moth 
destroyeth. 12:34For where your treasure is, there will 
your heart be also. 12:35Let your loins be girded about, and 
your lamps burning; 12:36and be ye yourselves like unto men 
looking for their lord, when he shall return from the marriage feast; that, when 
he cometh and knocketh, they may straightway open unto him. 12:37Blessed are those 
servants, whom the lord when he cometh shall find watching: verily I say unto 
you, that he shall gird himself, and make them sit down to meat, and shall come 
and serve them. 12:38And if he shall come in the second 
watch, and if in the third, and find them so blessed are those 
servants. 12:39But know this, that if the master of 
the house had known in what hour the thief was coming, he would have watched, 
and not have left his house to be broken through. 12:40Be ye also ready: 
for in an hour that ye think not the Son of man cometh. 12:41And Peter said, 
Lord, speakest thou this parable unto us, or even unto all? 12:42And the Lord said, 
Who then is the faithful and wise steward, whom his lord shall set over his 
household, to give them their portion of food in due season? 12:43Blessed is that servant, whom his lord 
when he cometh shall find so doing. 12:44Of a truth I say unto you, that he 
will set him over all that he hath. 12:45But if that servant shall say in his 
heart, My lord delayeth his coming; and shall begin to beat the menservants and 
the maidservants, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken; 12:46the lord of that 
servant shall come in a day when he expecteth not, and in an hour when he 
knoweth not, and shall cut him asunder, and appoint his portion with the 
unfaithful. 12:47And that servant, who knew his lord's 
will, and made not ready, nor did according to his will, shall be beaten with 
many stripes; 12:48but he that knew not, and did things 
worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes. And to whomsoever 
much is given, of him shall much be required: and to whom they commit much, of 
him will they ask the more. 12:49I came to cast fire upon the earth; 
and what do I desire, if it is already kindled? 12:50But I have a 
baptism to be baptized with; and how am I straitened till it be accomplished! 12:51Think ye that I am come to give peace 
in the earth? I tell you, Nay; but rather division: 12:52for there shall be 
from henceforth five in one house divided, three against two, and two against 
three. 12:53They shall be divided, father against 
son, and son against father; mother against daughter, and daughter against her 
mother; mother in law against her daughter in law, and daughter in law against 
her mother in law. 12:54And he said to the multitudes also, 
When ye see a cloud rising in the west, straightway ye say, There cometh a 
shower; and so it cometh to pass. 12:55And when ye see a south wind 
blowing, ye say, There will be a scorching heat; and it cometh to pass. 12:56Ye hypocrites, ye know how to 
interpret the face of the earth and the heaven; but how is it that ye know not 
how to interpret this time? 12:57And why even of yourselves judge ye 
not what is right? 12:58For as thou art going with thine 
adversary before the magistrate, on the way give diligence to be quit of him; 
lest haply he drag thee unto the judge, and the judge shall deliver thee to the 
officer, and the officer shall cast thee into prison. 12:59I say unto thee, 
Thou shalt by no means come out thence, till thou have paid the very last mite. 

13:1Now there were some present at that 
very season who told him of the Galilaeans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with 
their sacrifices. 13:2And he answered and said unto them, 
Think ye that these Galilaeans were sinners above all the Galilaeans, because 
they have suffered these things? 13:3I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, 
ye shall all in like manner perish. 13:4Or those eighteen, upon whom the tower 
in Siloam fell, and killed them, think ye that they were offenders above all the 
men that dwell in Jerusalem? 13:5I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, 
ye shall all likewise perish. 13:6And he spake this parable; A certain 
man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he came seeking fruit thereon, 
and found none. 13:7And he said unto the vinedresser, 
Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: 
cut it down; why doth it also cumber the ground? 13:8And he answering 
saith unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it, 
and dung it: 13:9and if it bear fruit thenceforth, 
well; but if not, thou shalt cut it down. 13:10And he was 
teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath day. 13:11And behold, a 
woman that had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years; and she was bowed together, 
and could in no wise lift herself up. 13:12And when Jesus saw her, he called her, 
and said to her, Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity. 13:13And he laid his hands upon her: and 
immediately she was made straight, and glorified God. 13:14And the ruler of 
the synagogue, being moved with indignation because Jesus had healed on the 
sabbath, answered and said to the multitude, There are six days in which men 
ought to work: in them therefore come and be healed, and not on the day of the 
sabbath. 13:15But the Lord answered him, and said, 
Ye hypocrites, doth not each one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or his ass 
from the stall, and lead him away to watering? 13:16And ought not this 
woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan had bound, lo, these 
eighteen years, to have been loosed from this bond on the day of the sabbath? 13:17And as he said these things, all his 
adversaries were put to shame: and all the multitude rejoiced for all the 
glorious things that were done by him. 13:18He said therefore, Unto what is the 
kingdom of God like? and whereunto shall I liken it? 13:19It is like unto a 
grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and cast into his own garden; and it 
grew, and became a tree; and the birds of the heaven lodged in the branches 
thereof. 13:20And again he said, Whereunto shall I 
liken the kingdom of God? 13:21It is like unto leaven, which a woman 
took and hid in three measures of meal, till it was all leavened. 13:22And he went on his way through cities 
and villages, teaching, and journeying on unto Jerusalem. 13:23And one said unto 
him, Lord, are they few that are saved? And he said unto them, 13:24Strive to enter in by the narrow door: 
for many, I say unto you, shall seek to enter in, and shall not be able. 13:25When once the master of the house is 
risen up, and hath shut to the door, and ye begin to stand without, and to knock 
at the door, saying, Lord, open to us; and he shall answer and say to you, I 
know you not whence ye are; 13:26then shall ye begin to say, We did eat 
and drink in thy presence, and thou didst teach in our streets; 13:27and he shall say, I tell you, I know 
not whence ye are; depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity. 13:28There shall be the weeping and the 
gnashing of teeth, when ye shall see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the 
prophets, in the kingdom of God, and yourselves cast forth without. 13:29And they shall come from the east and 
west, and from the north and south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God. 13:30And behold, there are last who shall 
be first, and there are first who shall be last. 13:31In that very hour 
there came certain Pharisees, saying to him, Get thee out, and go hence: for 
Herod would fain kill thee. 13:32And he said unto them, Go and say to 
that fox, Behold, I cast out demons and perform cures to-day and to-morrow, and 
the third day I am perfected. 13:33Nevertheless I must go on my way 
to-day and to-morrow and the day following: for it cannot be that a 
prophet perish out of Jerusalem. 13:34O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, that killeth 
the prophets, and stoneth them that are sent unto her! how often would I have 
gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her own brood 
under her wings, and ye would not! 13:35Behold, your house is left unto you 
desolate: and I say unto you, Ye shall not see me, until ye shall say, 
Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. 

14:1And it came to pass, when he went into 
the house of one of the rulers of the Pharisees on a sabbath to eat bread, that 
they were watching him. 14:2And behold, there was before him a 
certain man that had the dropsy. 14:3And Jesus answering spake unto the 
lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath, or not? 14:4But they held their peace. And he took 
him, and healed him, and let him go. 14:5And he said unto them, Which of you 
shall have an ass or an ox fallen into a well, and will not straightway draw him 
up on a sabbath day? 14:6And they could not answer again unto 
these things. 14:7And he spake a parable unto those that 
were bidden, when he marked how they chose out the chief seats; saying unto 
them, 14:8When thou art bidden of any man to a 
marriage feast, sit not down in the chief seat; lest haply a more honorable man 
than thou be bidden of him, 14:9and he that bade thee and him shall 
come and say to thee, Give this man place; and then thou shalt begin with shame 
to take the lowest place. 14:10But when thou art bidden, go and sit 
down in the lowest place; that when he that hath bidden thee cometh, he may say 
to thee, Friend, go up higher: then shalt thou have glory in the presence of all 
that sit at meat with thee. 14:11For everyone that exalteth himself 
shall be humbled; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. 14:12And he said to him also that had 
bidden him, When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy 
brethren, nor thy kinsmen, nor rich neighbors; lest haply they also bid thee 
again, and a recompense be made thee. 14:13But when thou makest a feast, bid the 
poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind: 14:14and thou shalt be blessed; because 
they have not wherewith to recompense thee: for thou shalt be recompensed 
in the resurrection of the just. 14:15And when one of them that sat at meat 
with him heard these things, he said unto him, Blessed is he that shall eat 
bread in the kingdom of God. 14:16But he said unto him, A certain man 
made a great supper; and he bade many: 14:17and he sent forth his servant at 
supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come; for all things are now 
ready. 14:18And they all with one consent 
began to make excuse. The first said unto him, I have bought a field, and I must 
needs go out and see it; I pray thee have me excused. 14:19And another said, 
I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them; I pray thee have me 
excused. 14:20And another said, I have married a 
wife, and therefore I cannot come. 14:21And the servant came, and told his 
lord these things. Then the master of the house being angry said to his servant, 
Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hither the 
poor and maimed and blind and lame. 14:22And the servant said, Lord, what thou 
didst command is done, and yet there is room. 14:23And the lord said 
unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and constrain them 
to come in, that my house may be filled. 14:24For I say unto 
you, that none of those men that were bidden shall taste of my supper. 14:25Now there went with him great 
multitudes: and he turned, and said unto them, 14:26If any man cometh 
unto me, and hateth not his own father, and mother, and wife, and children, and 
brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. 14:27Whosoever doth not bear his own cross, 
and come after me, cannot be my disciple. 14:28For which of you, 
desiring to build a tower, doth not first sit down and count the cost, whether 
he have wherewith to complete it? 14:29Lest haply, when 
he hath laid a foundation, and is not able to finish, all that behold begin to 
mock him, 14:30saying, This man began to build, and 
was not able to finish. 14:31Or what king, as he goeth to encounter 
another king in war, will not sit down first and take counsel whether he is able 
with ten thousand to meet him that cometh against him with twenty thousand? 14:32Or else, while the other is yet a 
great way off, he sendeth an ambassage, and asketh conditions of peace. 14:33So therefore whosoever he be of you 
that renounceth not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. 14:34Salt therefore is good: but if even 
the salt have lost its savor, wherewith shall it be seasoned? 14:35It is fit neither for the land nor for 
the dunghill: men cast it out. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. 

15:1Now all the publicans and sinners were 
drawing near unto him to hear him. 15:2And both the Pharisees and the scribes 
murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them. 15:3And he spake unto them this parable, 
saying, 15:4What man of you, having a hundred 
sheep, and having lost one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the 
wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it? 15:5And when he hath found it, he layeth it 
on his shoulders, rejoicing. 15:6And when he cometh home, he calleth 
together his friends and his neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, for I 
have found my sheep which was lost. 15:7I say unto you, that even so there 
shall be joy in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over 
ninety and nine righteous persons, who need no repentance. 15:8Or what woman 
having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a lamp, and 
sweep the house, and seek diligently until she find it? 15:9And when she hath 
found it, she calleth together her friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with 
me, for I have found the piece which I had lost. 15:10Even so, I say 
unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that 
repenteth. 15:11And he said, A certain man had two 
sons: 15:12and the younger of them said to his 
father, Father, give me the portion of thy substance that falleth to me. 
And he divided unto them his living. 15:13And not many days after, the younger 
son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country; and there he 
wasted his substance with riotous living. 15:14And when he had 
spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that country; and he began to be in 
want. 15:15And he went and joined himself to one 
of the citizens of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. 
15:16And he would fain have filled his 
belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no man gave unto him. 15:17But when he came to himself he said, 
How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I 
perish here with hunger! 15:18I will arise and go to my father, and 
will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight: 15:19I am no more worthy to be called your 
son: make me as one of thy hired servants. 15:20And he arose, and 
came to his father. But while he was yet afar off, his father saw him, and was 
moved with compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him. 15:21And the son said unto him, Father, I 
have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight: I am no more worthy to be called 
thy son. 15:22But the father said to his servants, 
Bring forth quickly the best robe, and put it on him; and put a ring on his 
hand, and shoes on his feet: 15:23and bring the fatted calf, and 
kill it, and let us eat, and make merry: 15:24for this my son 
was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found. And they began to be 
merry. 15:25Now his elder son was in the field: 
and as he came and drew nigh to the house, he heard music and dancing. 15:26And he called to him one of the 
servants, and inquired what these things might be. 15:27And he said unto 
him, Thy brother is come; and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he 
hath received him safe and sound. 15:28But he was angry, and would not go in: 
and his father came out, and entreated him. 15:29But he answered 
and said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, and I never 
transgressed a commandment of thine; and yet thou never gavest me a kid, 
that I might make merry with my friends: 15:30but when this thy 
son came, who hath devoured thy living with harlots, thou killedst for him the 
fatted calf. 15:31And he said unto him, Son, thou art 
ever with me, and all that is mine is thine. 15:32But it was meet to 
make merry and be glad: for this thy brother was dead, and is alive 
again; and was lost, and is found. 

16:1And he said also unto the disciples, 
There was a certain rich man, who had a steward; and the same was accused unto 
him that he was wasting his goods. 16:2And he called him, and said unto him, 
What is this that I hear of thee? render the account of thy stewardship; for 
thou canst be no longer steward. 16:3And the steward said within himself, 
What shall I do, seeing that my lord taketh away the stewardship from me? I have 
not strength to dig; to beg I am ashamed. 16:4I am resolved what 
to do, that, when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into 
their houses. 16:5And calling to him each one of his 
lord's debtors, he said to the first, How much owest thou unto my lord? 16:6And he said, A hundred measures of oil. 
And he said unto him, Take thy bond, and sit down quickly and write fifty. 16:7Then said he to another, And how much 
owest thou? And he said, A hundred measures of wheat. He saith unto him, Take 
thy bond, and write fourscore. 16:8And his lord commended the unrighteous 
steward because he had done wisely: for the sons of this world are for their own 
generation wiser than the sons of the light. 16:9And I say unto you, 
Make to yourselves friends by means of the mammon of unrighteousness; that, when 
it shall fail, they may receive you into the eternal tabernacles. 16:10He that is faithful in a very little 
is faithful also in much: and he that is unrighteous in a very little is 
unrighteous also in much. 16:11If therefore ye have not been faithful 
in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches? 
16:12And if ye have not been faithful in 
that which is another's, who will give you that which is your own? 16:13No servant can serve two masters: for 
either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to one, 
and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. 16:14And the Pharisees, 
who were lovers of money, heard all these things; and they scoffed at him. 16:15And he said unto them, Ye are they 
that justify yourselves in the sight of men; but God knoweth your hearts: for 
that which is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God. 16:16The law and the prophets were 
until John: from that time the gospel of the kingdom of God is preached, and 
every man entereth violently into it. 16:17But it is easier for heaven and earth 
to pass away, than for one tittle of the law to fall. 16:18Every one that 
putteth away his wife, and marrieth another, committeth adultery: and he that 
marrieth one that is put away from a husband committeth adultery. 16:19Now there was a certain rich man, and 
he was clothed in purple and fine linen, faring sumptuously every day: 16:20and a certain beggar named Lazarus was 
laid at his gate, full of sores, 16:21and desiring to be fed with the 
crumbs that fell from the rich man's table; yea, even the dogs come and 
licked his sores. 16:22And it came to pass, that the beggar 
died, and that he was carried away by the angels into Abraham's bosom: and the 
rich man also died, and was buried. 16:23And in Hades he lifted up his eyes, 
being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. 16:24And he cried and said, Father Abraham, 
have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in 
water, and cool my tongue; for I am in anguish in this flame. 16:25But Abraham said, Son, remember that 
thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and Lazarus in like manner evil 
things: but now here he is comforted and thou art in anguish. 16:26And besides all this, between us and 
you there is a great gulf fixed, that they that would pass from hence to you may 
not be able, and that none may cross over from thence to us. 16:27And he said, I pray thee therefore, 
father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house; 16:28for I have five 
brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of 
torment. 16:29But Abraham saith, They have Moses and 
the prophets; let them hear them. 16:30And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but 
if one go to them from the dead, they will repent. 16:31And he said unto 
him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, if 
one rise from the dead. 

17:1And he said unto his disciples, It is 
impossible but that occasions of stumbling should come; but woe unto him, 
through whom they come! 17:2It were well for him if a millstone 
were hanged about his neck, and he were thrown into the sea, rather than that he 
should cause one of these little ones to stumble. 17:3Take heed to 
yourselves: if thy brother sin, rebuke him; and if he repent, forgive him. 17:4And if he sin against thee seven times 
in the day, and seven times turn again to thee, saying, I repent; thou shalt 
forgive him. 17:5And the apostles said unto the Lord, 
Increase our faith. 17:6And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a 
grain of mustard seed, ye would say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou rooted up, 
and be thou planted in the sea; and it would obey you. 17:7But who is there of 
you, having a servant plowing or keeping sheep, that will say unto him, when he 
is come in from the field, Come straightway and sit down to meat; 17:8and will not rather say unto him, Make 
ready wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself, and serve me, till I have eaten and 
drunken; and afterward thou shalt eat and drink? 17:9Doth he thank the 
servant because he did the things that were commanded? 17:10Even so ye also, 
when ye shall have done all the things that are commanded you, say, We are 
unprofitable servants; we have done that which it was our duty to do. 17:11And it came to pass, as they were on 
their way to Jerusalem, that he was passing along the borders of Samaria and 
Galilee. 17:12And as he entered into a certain 
village, there met him ten men that were lepers, who stood afar off: 17:13and they lifted up their voices, 
saying, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. 17:14And when he saw 
them, he said unto them, Go and show yourselves unto the priests. And it came to 
pass, as they went, they were cleansed. 17:15And one of them, when he saw that he 
was healed, turned back, with a loud voice glorifying God; 17:16and he fell upon 
his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan. 17:17And Jesus answering said, Were not the 
ten cleansed? but where are the nine? 17:18Were there none found that returned to 
give glory to God, save this stranger? 17:19And he said unto him, Arise, and go 
thy way: thy faith hath made thee whole. 17:20And being asked by 
the Pharisees, when the kingdom of God cometh, he answered them and said, The 
kingdom of God cometh not with observation: 17:21neither shall they 
say, Lo, here! or, There! for lo, the kingdom of God is within you. 17:22And he said unto the disciples, The 
days will come, when ye shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, 
and ye shall not see it. 17:23And they shall say to you, Lo, there! 
Lo, here! go not away, nor follow after them: 17:24for as the 
lightning, when it lighteneth out of the one part under the heaven, shineth unto 
the other part under heaven; so shall the Son of man be in his day. 17:25But first must he suffer many things 
and be rejected of this generation. 17:26And as it came to pass in the days of 
Noah, even so shall it be also in the days of the Son of man. 17:27They ate, they drank, they married, 
they were given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ark, and 
the flood came, and destroyed them all. 17:28Likewise even as it came to pass in 
the days of Lot; they ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, 
they builded; 17:29but in the day that Lot went out from 
Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all: 17:30after the same manner shall it be in 
the day that the Son of man is revealed. 17:31In that day, he 
that shall be on the housetop, and his goods in the house, let him not go down 
to take them away: and let him that is in the field likewise not return back. 17:32Remember Lot's wife. 17:33Whosoever shall seek to gain his life 
shall lose it: but whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it. 17:34I say unto you, In that night there 
shall be two men on one bed; the one shall be taken, and the other shall be 
left. 17:35There shall be two women grinding 
together; the one shall be taken, and the other shall be left. 17:36There shall be two men in the 
field; the one shall be taken, and the other shall be left. 17:37And they answering say unto him, 
Where, Lord? And he said unto them, Where the body is, thither will the 
eagles also be gathered together. 

18:1And he spake a parable unto them to the 
end that they ought always to pray, and not to faint; 18:2saying, There was 
in a city a judge, who feared not God, and regarded not man: 18:3and there was a 
widow in that city; and she came oft unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine 
adversary. 18:4And he would not for a while: but 
afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man; 18:5yet because this widow troubleth me, I 
will avenge her, lest she wear me out by her continual coming. 18:6And the Lord said, Hear what the 
unrighteous judge saith. 18:7And shall not God avenge his elect, 
that cry to him day and night, and yet he is longsuffering over them? 18:8I 
say unto you, that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of 
man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? 18:9And he spake also 
this parable unto certain who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, 
and set all others at nought: 18:10Two men went up into the temple to 
pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican. 18:11The Pharisee stood 
and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as the rest of 
men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. 18:12I fast twice in the week; I give 
tithes of all that I get. 18:13But the publican, standing afar off, 
would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote his breast, saying, 
God, be thou merciful to me a sinner. 18:14I say unto you, This man went down to 
his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself 
shall be humbled; but he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. 18:15And they were bringing unto him also 
their babes, that he should touch them: but when the disciples saw it, they 
rebuked them. 18:16But Jesus called them unto him, 
saying, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for to 
such belongeth the kingdom of God. 18:17Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall 
not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall in no wise enter 
therein. 18:18And a certain ruler asked him, saying, 
Good Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? 18:19And Jesus said 
unto him, Why callest thou me good? none is good, save one, even God. 18:20Thou knowest the commandments, Do not 
commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honor thy 
father and mother. 18:21And he said, All these things have I 
observed from my youth up. 18:22And when Jesus heard it, he said unto 
him, One thing thou lackest yet: sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto 
the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me. 18:23But when he heard these things, he 
became exceeding sorrowful; for he was very rich. 18:24And Jesus seeing 
him said, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God! 
18:25For it is easier for a camel to enter 
in through a needle's eye, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. 
18:26And they that heard it said, Then who 
can be saved? 18:27But he said, The things which are 
impossible with men are possible with God. 18:28And Peter said, 
Lo, we have left our own, and followed thee. 18:29And he said unto 
them, Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or wife, or 
brethren, or parents, or children, for the kingdom of God's sake, 18:30who shall not receive manifold more in 
this time, and in the world to come eternal life. 18:31And he took unto 
him the twelve, and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all the 
things that are written through the prophets shall be accomplished unto the Son 
of man. 18:32For he shall be delivered up unto the 
Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and shamefully treated, and spit upon: 18:33and they shall scourge and kill him: 
and the third day he shall rise again. 18:34And they understood none of these 
things; and this saying was hid from them, and they perceived not the things 
that were said. 18:35And it came to pass, as he drew nigh 
unto Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the way side begging: 18:36and hearing a multitude going by, he 
inquired what this meant. 18:37And they told him that Jesus of 
Nazareth passeth by. 18:38And he cried, saying, Jesus, thou son 
of David, have mercy on me. 18:39And they that went before rebuked him, 
that he should hold his peace: but he cried out the more a great deal, Thou son 
of David, have mercy on me. 18:40And Jesus stood, and commanded him to 
be brought unto him: and when he was come near, he asked him, 18:41What wilt thou that I should do unto 
thee? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight. 18:42And Jesus said 
unto him, Receive thy sight; thy faith hath made thee whole. 18:43And immediately he received his sight, 
and followed him, glorifying God: and all the people, when they saw it, gave 
praise unto God. 

19:1And he entered and was passing through 
Jericho. 19:2And behold, a man called by name 
Zacchaeus; and he was a chief publican, and he was rich. 19:3And he sought to 
see Jesus who he was; and could not for the crowd, because he was little of 
stature. 19:4And he ran on before, and climbed up 
into a sycomore tree to see him: for he was to pass that way. 19:5And when Jesus came to the place, he 
looked up, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, and come down; for to-day I 
must abide at thy house. 19:6And he made haste, and came down, and 
received him joyfully. 19:7And when they saw it, they all 
murmured, saying, He is gone in to lodge with a man that is a sinner. 19:8And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the 
Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have 
wrongfully exacted aught of any man, I restore fourfold. 19:9And Jesus said unto 
him, To-day is salvation come to this house, forasmuch as he also is a son of 
Abraham. 19:10For the Son of man came to seek and to 
save that which was lost. 19:11And as they heard these things, he 
added and spake a parable, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and because 
they supposed that the kingdom of God was immediately to appear. 19:12He said therefore, A certain nobleman 
went into a far country, to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return. 19:13And he called ten servants of his, and 
gave them ten pounds, and said unto them, Trade ye herewith till I come. 
19:14But his citizens hated him, and sent 
an ambassage after him, saying, We will not that this man reign over us. 19:15And it came to pass, when he was come 
back again, having received the kingdom, that he commanded these servants, unto 
whom he had given the money, to be called to him, that he might know what they 
had gained by trading. 19:16And the first came before him, saying, 
Lord, thy pound hath made ten pounds more. 19:17And he said unto 
him, Well done, thou good servant: because thou wast found faithful in a very 
little, have thou authority over ten cities. 19:18And the second 
came, saying, Thy pound, Lord, hath made five pounds. 19:19And he said unto 
him also, Be thou also over five cities. 19:20And another came, 
saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, which I kept laid up in a 
napkin: 19:21for I feared thee, because thou art an 
austere man: thou takest up that which thou layedst not down, and reapest that 
which thou didst not sow. 19:22He saith unto him, Out of thine own 
mouth will I judge thee, thou wicked servant. Thou knewest that I am an austere 
man, taking up that which I laid not down, and reaping that which I did not sow; 
19:23then wherefore gavest thou not my 
money into the bank, and I at my coming should have required it with interest? 
19:24And he said unto them that stood by, 
Take away from him the pound, and give it unto him that hath the ten pounds. 19:25And they said unto him, Lord, he hath 
ten pounds. 19:26I say unto you, that unto every one 
that hath shall be given; but from him that hath not, even that which he hath 
shall be taken away from him. 19:27But these mine enemies, that would not 
that I should reign over them, bring hither, and slay them before me. 19:28And when he had thus spoken, he went 
on before, going up to Jerusalem. 19:29And it came to pass, when he drew nigh 
unto Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount that is called Olivet, he sent two of 
the disciples, 19:30saying, Go your way into the village 
over against you; in which as ye enter ye shall find a colt tied, whereon 
no man ever yet sat: loose him, and bring him. 19:31And if any one ask 
you, Why do ye loose him? thus shall ye say, The Lord hath need of him. 19:32And they that were sent went away, and 
found even as he had said unto them. 19:33And as they were loosing the colt, the 
owners thereof said unto them, Why loose ye the colt? 19:34And they said, The 
Lord hath need of him. 19:35And they brought him to Jesus: and 
they threw their garments upon the colt, and set Jesus thereon. 19:36And as he went, they spread their 
garments in the way. 19:37And as he was now drawing nigh, 
even at the descent of the mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the 
disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty 
works which they had seen; 19:38saying, Blessed is the King 
that cometh in the name of the Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest. 
19:39And some of the Pharisees from the 
multitude said unto him, Teacher, rebuke thy disciples. 19:40And he answered 
and said, I tell you that, if these shall hold their peace, the stones will cry 
out. 19:41And when he drew nigh, he saw the city 
and wept over it, 19:42saying, If thou hadst known in this 
day, even thou, the things which belong unto peace! but now they are hid from 
thine eyes. 19:43For the days shall come upon thee, 
when thine enemies shall cast up a bank about thee, and compass thee round, and 
keep thee in on every side, 19:44and shall dash thee to the ground, and 
thy children within thee; and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon 
another; because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. 19:45And he entered into the temple, and 
began to cast out them that sold, 19:46saying unto them, It is written, And 
my house shall be a house of prayer: but ye have made it a den of robbers. 19:47And he was teaching daily in the 
temple. But the chief priests and the scribes and the principal men of the 
people sought to destroy him: 19:48and they could not find what they 
might do; for the people all hung upon him, listening. 

20:1And it came to pass, on one of the 
days, as he was teaching the people in the temple, and preaching the gospel, 
there came upon him the chief priests and the scribes with the elders; 20:2and they spake, saying unto him, Tell 
us: By what authority doest thou these things? or who is he that gave thee this 
authority? 20:3And he answered and said unto them, I 
also will ask you a question; and tell me: 20:4The baptism of 
John, was it from heaven, or from men? 20:5And they reasoned with themselves, 
saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he will say, Why did ye not believe him? 
20:6But if we shall say, From men; all the 
people will stone us: for they are persuaded that John was a prophet. 20:7And they answered, that they knew not 
whence it was. 20:8And Jesus said unto them, Neither tell 
I you by what authority I do these things. 20:9And he began to 
speak unto the people this parable: A man planted a vineyard, and let it out to 
husbandmen, and went into another country for a long time. 20:10And at the season 
he sent unto the husbandmen a servant, that they should give him of the fruit of 
the vineyard: but the husbandmen beat him, and sent him away empty. 20:11And he sent yet another servant: and 
him also they beat, and handled him shamefully, and sent him away empty. 20:12And he sent yet a third: and him also 
they wounded, and cast him forth. 20:13And the lord of the vineyard said, 
What shall I do? I will send my beloved son; it may be they will reverence him. 
20:14But when the husbandmen saw him, they 
reasoned one with another, saying, This is the heir; let us kill him, that the 
inheritance may be ours. 20:15And they cast him forth out of the 
vineyard, and killed him. What therefore will the lord of the vineyard do unto 
them? 20:16He will come and destroy these 
husbandmen, and will give the vineyard unto others. And when they heard it, they 
said, God forbid. 20:17But he looked upon them, and said, 
What then is this that is written, 
 The stone which the builders rejected, 
 The same was made the head of the corner? 
20:18Every one that falleth on that stone 
shall be broken to pieces; but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will scatter him 
as dust. 20:19And the scribes and the chief priests 
sought to lay hands on him in that very hour; and they feared the people: for 
they perceived that he spake this parable against them. 20:20And they watched 
him, and sent forth spies, who feigned themselves to be righteous, that they 
might take hold of his speech, so as to deliver him up to the rule and to the 
authority of the governor. 20:21And they asked him, saying, Teacher, 
we know that thou sayest and teachest rightly, and acceptest not the person 
of any, but of a truth teachest the way of God: 20:22Is it lawful for 
us to give tribute unto Caesar, or not? 20:23But he perceived their craftiness, and 
said unto them, 20:24Show me a denarius. Whose image and 
superscription hath it? And they said, Caesar's. 20:25And he said unto 
them, Then render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and unto God the 
things that are God's. 20:26And they were not able to take hold of 
the saying before the people: and they marvelled at his answer, and held their 
peace. 20:27And there came to him certain of the 
Sadducees, they that say that there is no resurrection; 20:28and they asked 
him, saying, Teacher, Moses wrote unto us, that if a man's brother die, having a 
wife, and he be childless, his brother should take the wife, and raise up seed 
unto his brother. 20:29There were therefore seven brethren: 
and the first took a wife, and died childless; 20:30and the second: 20:31and the third took her; and likewise 
the seven also left no children, and died. 20:32Afterward the 
woman also died. 20:33In the resurrection therefore whose 
wife of them shall she be? for the seven had her to wife. 20:34And Jesus said 
unto them, The sons of this world marry, and are given in marriage: 20:35but they that are accounted worthy to 
attain to that world, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are 
given in marriage: 20:36for neither can they die any more: for 
they are equal unto the angels; and are sons of God, being sons of the 
resurrection. 20:37But that the dead are raised, even 
Moses showed, in the place concerning the Bush, when he calleth the Lord 
the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. 20:38Now he is not the God of the dead, but 
of the living: for all live unto him. 20:39And certain of the scribes answering 
said, Teacher, thou hast well said. 20:40For they durst not any more ask him 
any question. 20:41And he said unto them, How say they 
that the Christ is David's son? 20:42For David himself saith in the book of 
Psalms, 
 The Lord said unto my Lord, 
 Sit thou on my right hand, 
 20:43Till I make thine enemies the 
footstool of thy feet. 
20:44David therefore calleth him Lord, and 
how is he his son? 20:45And in the hearing of all the people 
he said unto his disciples, 20:46Beware of the scribes, who desire to 
walk in long robes, and love salutations in the marketplaces, and chief seats in 
the synagogues, and chief places at feasts; 20:47who devour widows' 
houses, and for a pretence make long prayers: these shall receive greater 
condemnation. 

21:1And he looked up, and saw the rich men 
that were casting their gifts into the treasury. 21:2And he saw a 
certain poor widow casting in thither two mites. 21:3And he said, Of a 
truth I say unto you, This poor widow cast in more than they all: 21:4for all these did of their superfluity 
cast in unto the gifts; but she of her want did cast in all the living that she 
had. 21:5And as some spake of the temple, how it 
was adorned with goodly stones and offerings, he said, 21:6As for these things 
which ye behold, the days will come, in which there shall not be left here one 
stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down. 21:7And they asked him, 
saying, Teacher, when therefore shall these things be? and what shall be 
the sign when these things are about to come to pass? 21:8And he said, Take 
heed that ye be not led astray: for many shall come in my name, saying, I am 
he; and, The time is at hand: go ye not after them. 21:9And when ye shall 
hear of wars and tumults, be not terrified: for these things must needs come to 
pass first; but the end is not immediately. 21:10Then said he unto 
them, Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; 21:11and there shall be great earthquakes, 
and in divers places famines and pestilences; and there shall be terrors and 
great signs from heaven. 21:12But before all these things, they 
shall lay their hands on you, and shall persecute you, delivering you up to the 
synagogues and prisons, bringing you before kings and governors for my name's 
sake. 21:13It shall turn out unto you for a 
testimony. 21:14Settle it therefore in your hearts, 
not to meditate beforehand how to answer: 21:15for I will give 
you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not be able to 
withstand or to gainsay. 21:16But ye shall be delivered up even by 
parents, and brethren, and kinsfolk, and friends; and some of you shall 
they cause to be put to death. 21:17And ye shall be hated of all men for 
my name's sake. 21:18And not a hair of your head shall 
perish. 21:19In your patience ye shall win your 
souls. 21:20But when ye see Jerusalem compassed 
with armies, then know that her desolation is at hand. 21:21Then let them that 
are in Judaea flee unto the mountains; and let them that are in the midst of her 
depart out; and let not them that are in the country enter therein. 21:22For these are days of vengeance, that 
all things which are written may be fulfilled. 21:23Woe unto them that 
are with child and to them that give suck in those days! for there shall be 
great distress upon the land, and wrath unto this people. 21:24And they shall 
fall by the edge of the sword, and shall be led captive into all the nations: 
and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles, until the times of the 
Gentiles be fulfilled. 21:25And there shall be signs in sun and 
moon and stars; and upon the earth distress of nations, in perplexity for the 
roaring of the sea and the billows; 21:26men fainting for fear, and for 
expectation of the things which are coming on the world: for the powers of the 
heavens shall be shaken. 21:27And then shall they see the Son of man 
coming in a cloud with power and great glory. 21:28But when these 
things begin to come to pass, look up, and lift up your heads; because your 
redemption draweth nigh. 21:29And he spake to them a parable: Behold 
the fig tree, and all the trees: 21:30when they now shoot forth, ye see it 
and know of your own selves that the summer is now nigh. 21:31Even so ye also, 
when ye see these things coming to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is 
nigh. 21:32Verily I say unto you, This generation 
shall not pass away, till all things be accomplished. 21:33Heaven and earth 
shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away. 21:34But take heed to 
yourselves, lest haply your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting, and 
drunkenness, and cares of this life, and that day come on you suddenly as a 
snare: 21:35for so shall it come upon all 
them that dwell on the face of all the earth. 21:36But watch ye at 
every season, making supplication, that ye may prevail to escape all these 
things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man. 21:37And every day he was teaching in the 
temple; and every night he went out, and lodged in the mount that is called 
Olivet. 21:38And all the people came early in the 
morning to him in the temple, to hear him. 

22:1Now the feast of unleavened bread drew 
nigh, which is called the Passover. 22:2And the chief priests and the scribes 
sought how they might put him to death; for they feared the people. 22:3And Satan entered into Judas who was 
called Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve. 22:4And he went away, 
and communed with the chief priests and captains, how he might deliver him unto 
them. 22:5And they were glad, and covenanted to 
give him money. 22:6And he consented, and sought 
opportunity to deliver him unto them in the absence of the multitude. 22:7And the day of unleavened bread came, 
on which the passover must be sacrificed. 22:8And he sent Peter 
and John, saying, Go and make ready for us the passover, that we may eat. 22:9And they said unto him, Where wilt thou 
that we make ready? 22:10And he said unto them, Behold, when ye 
are entered into the city, there shall meet you a man bearing a pitcher of 
water; follow him into the house whereinto he goeth. 22:11And ye shall say 
unto the master of the house, The Teacher saith unto thee, Where is the 
guestchamber, where I shall eat the passover with my disciples? 22:12And he will show you a large upper 
room furnished: there make ready. 22:13And they went, and found as he had 
said unto them: and they made ready the passover. 22:14And when the hour 
was come, he sat down, and the apostles with him. 22:15And he said unto 
them, With desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer: 
22:16for I say unto you, I shall not eat 
it, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. 22:17And he received a 
cup, and when he had given thanks, he said, Take this, and divide it among 
yourselves: 22:18for I say unto you, I shall not drink 
from henceforth of the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God shall come. 
22:19And he took bread, and when he had 
given thanks, he brake it, and gave to them, saying, This is my body which is 
given for you: this do in remembrance of me. 22:20And the cup in 
like manner after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood, 
even that which is poured out for you. 22:21But behold, the 
hand of him that betrayeth me is with me on the table. 22:22For the Son of man 
indeed goeth, as it hath been determined: but woe unto that man through whom he 
is betrayed! 22:23And they began to question among 
themselves, which of them it was that should do this thing. 22:24And there arose 
also a contention among them, which of them was accounted to be greatest. 22:25And he said unto them, The kings of 
the Gentiles have lordship over them; and they that have authority over them are 
called Benefactors. 22:26But ye shall not be so: 
but he that is the greater among you, let him become as the younger; and he that 
is chief, as he that doth serve. 22:27For which is greater, he that sitteth 
at meat, or he that serveth? is not he that sitteth at meat? but I am in the 
midst of you as he that serveth. 22:28But ye are they that have continued 
with me in my temptations; 22:29and I appoint unto you a kingdom, even 
as my Father appointed unto me, 22:30that ye may eat and drink at my table 
in my kingdom; and ye shall sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. 
22:31Simon, Simon, behold, Satan asked to 
have you, that he might sift you as wheat: 22:32but I made 
supplication for thee, that thy faith fail not; and do thou, when once thou hast 
turned again, establish thy brethren. 22:33And he said unto him, Lord, with thee 
I am ready to go both to prison and to death. 22:34And he said, I 
tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day, until thou shalt thrice deny 
that thou knowest me. 22:35And he said unto them, When I sent you 
forth without purse, and wallet, and shoes, lacked ye anything? And they said, 
Nothing. 22:36And he said unto them, But now, he 
that hath a purse, let him take it, and likewise a wallet; and he that hath 
none, let him sell his cloak, and buy a sword. 22:37For I say unto 
you, that this which is written must be fulfilled in me, And he was reckoned 
with transgressors: for that which concerneth me hath fulfilment. 22:38And they said, Lord, behold, here are 
two swords. And he said unto them, It is enough. 22:39And he came out, 
and went, as his custom was, unto the mount of Olives; and the disciples also 
followed him. 22:40And when he was at the place, he said 
unto them, Pray that ye enter not into temptation. 22:41And he was parted 
from them about a stone's cast; and he kneeled down and prayed, 22:42saying, Father, if thou be willing, 
remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done. 22:43And there appeared unto him an angel 
from heaven, strengthening him. 22:44And being in an agony he prayed more 
earnestly; and his sweat became as it were great drops of blood falling down 
upon the ground. 22:45And when he rose up from his prayer, 
he came unto the disciples, and found them sleeping for sorrow, 22:46and said unto them, Why sleep ye? rise 
and pray, that ye enter not into temptation. 22:47While he yet 
spake, behold, a multitude, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, 
went before them; and he drew near unto Jesus to kiss him. 22:48But Jesus said 
unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son of man with a kiss? 22:49And when they that 
were about him saw what would follow, they said, Lord, shall we smite with the 
sword? 22:50And a certain one of them smote the 
servant of the high priest, and struck off his right ear. 22:51But Jesus answered 
and said, Suffer ye them thus far. And he touched his ear, and healed 
him. 22:52And Jesus said unto the chief priests, 
and captains of the temple, and elders, that were come against him, Are ye come 
out, as against a robber, with swords and staves? 22:53When I was daily 
with you in the temple, ye stretched not forth your hands against me: but this 
is your hour, and the power of darkness. 22:54And they seized 
him, and led him away, and brought him into the high priest's house. But 
Peter followed afar off. 22:55And when they had kindled a fire in 
the midst of the court, and had sat down together, Peter sat in the midst of 
them. 22:56And a certain maid seeing him as he 
sat in the light of the fire, and looking stedfastly upon him, said, This 
man also was with him. 22:57But he denied, saying, Woman, I know 
him not. 22:58And after a little while another saw 
him, and said, Thou also art one of them. But Peter said, Man, I am not. 
22:59And after the space of about one hour 
another confidently affirmed, saying, Of a truth this man also was with him; for 
he is a Galilaean. 22:60But Peter said, Man, I know not what 
thou sayest. And immediately, while he yet spake, the cock crew. 22:61And the Lord turned, and looked upon 
Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how that he said unto him, 
Before the cock crow this day thou shalt deny me thrice. 22:62And he went out, 
and wept bitterly. 22:63And the men that held Jesus 
mocked him, and beat him. 22:64And they blindfolded him, and asked 
him, saying, Prophesy: who is he that struck thee? 22:65And many other 
things spake they against him, reviling him. 22:66And as soon as it 
was day, the assembly of the elders of the people was gathered together, both 
chief priests and scribes; and they led him away into their council, saying, 22:67If thou art the Christ, tell us. But 
he said unto them, If I tell you, ye will not believe: 22:68and if I ask 
you, ye will not answer. 22:69But from henceforth shall the Son of 
man be seated at the right hand of the power of God. 22:70And they all said, 
Art thou then the Son of God? And he said unto them, Ye say that I am. 22:71And they said, What further need have 
we of witness? for we ourselves have heard from his own mouth. 

23:1And the whole company of them rose up, 
and brought him before Pilate. 23:2And they began to accuse him, saying, 
We found this man perverting our nation, and forbidding to give tribute to 
Caesar, and saying that he himself is Christ a king. 23:3And Pilate asked 
him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answered him and said, Thou 
sayest. 23:4And Pilate said unto the chief priests 
and the multitudes, I find no fault in this man. 23:5But they were the 
more urgent, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all Judaea, 
and beginning from Galilee even unto this place. 23:6But when Pilate 
heard it, he asked whether the man were a Galilaean. 23:7And when he knew 
that he was of Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him unto Herod, who himself also 
was at Jerusalem in these days. 23:8Now when Herod saw Jesus, he was 
exceeding glad: for he was of a long time desirous to see him, because he had 
heard concerning him; and he hoped to see some miracle done by him. 23:9And he questioned him in many words; 
but he answered him nothing. 23:10And the chief priests and the scribes 
stood, vehemently accusing him. 23:11And Herod with his soldiers set him at 
nought, and mocked him, and arraying him in gorgeous apparel sent him back to 
Pilate. 23:12And Herod and Pilate became friends 
with each other that very day: for before they were at enmity between 
themselves. 23:13And Pilate called together the chief 
priests and the rulers and the people, 23:14and said unto them, Ye brought unto me 
this man, as one that perverteth the people: and behold, I having examined him 
before you, found no fault in this man touching those things whereof ye accuse 
him: 23:15no, nor yet Herod: for he sent him 
back unto us; and behold, nothing worthy of death hath been done by him. 23:16I will therefore chastise him, and 
release him. 23:17Now he must needs release unto them 
at the feast one prisoner. 23:18But they cried out all together, 
saying, Away with this man, and release unto us Barabbas: -- 23:19one who for a certain insurrection 
made in the city, and for murder, was cast into prison. 23:20And Pilate spake 
unto them again, desiring to release Jesus; 23:21but they shouted, 
saying, Crucify, crucify him. 23:22And he said unto them the third time, 
Why, what evil hath this man done? I have found no cause of death in him: I will 
therefore chastise him and release him. 23:23But they were urgent with loud voices, 
asking that he might be crucified. And their voices prevailed. 23:24And Pilate gave sentence that what 
they asked for should be done. 23:25And he released him that for 
insurrection and murder had been cast into prison, whom they asked for; but 
Jesus he delivered up to their will. 23:26And when they led him away, they laid 
hold upon one Simon of Cyrene, coming from the country, and laid on him the 
cross, to bear it after Jesus. 23:27And there followed him a great 
multitude of the people, and of women who bewailed and lamented him. 23:28But Jesus turning unto them said, 
Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your 
children. 23:29For behold, the days are coming, in 
which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bare, and 
the breasts that never gave suck. 23:30Then shall they begin to say to the 
mountains, Fall on us; and to the hills, Cover us. 23:31For if they do 
these things in the green tree, what shall be done in the dry? 23:32And there were also two others, 
malefactors, led with him to be put to death. 23:33And when they came 
unto the place which is called The skull, there they crucified him, and the 
malefactors, one on the right hand and the other on the left. 23:34And Jesus said, Father, forgive them; 
for they know not what they do. And parting his garments among them, they cast 
lots. 23:35And the people stood beholding. And 
the rulers also scoffed at him, saying, He saved others; let him save himself, 
if this is the Christ of God, his chosen. 23:36And the soldiers 
also mocked him, coming to him, offering him vinegar, 23:37and saying, If 
thou art the King of the Jews, save thyself. 23:38And there was also 
a superscription over him, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS. 23:39And one of the 
malefactors that were hanged railed on him, saying, Art not thou the Christ? 
save thyself and us. 23:40But the other answered, and rebuking 
him said, Dost thou not even fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? 
23:41And we indeed justly; for we receive 
the due reward of our deeds: but this man hath done nothing amiss. 23:42And he said, Jesus, remember me when 
thou comest in thy kingdom. 23:43And he said unto him, Verily I say 
unto thee, To-day shalt thou be with me in Paradise. 23:44And it was now 
about the sixth hour, and a darkness came over the whole land until the ninth 
hour, 23:45the sun's light failing: and the veil 
of the temple was rent in the midst. 23:46And Jesus, crying with a loud voice, 
said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said this, he gave 
up the ghost. 23:47And when the centurion saw what was 
done, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man. 23:48And all the multitudes that came 
together to this sight, when they beheld the things that were done, returned 
smiting their breasts. 23:49And all his acquaintance, and the 
women that followed with him from Galilee, stood afar off, seeing these things. 
23:50And behold, a man named Joseph, who 
was a councillor, a good and righteous man 23:51(he had not 
consented to their counsel and deed), a man of Arimathaea, a city of the 
Jews, who was looking for the kingdom of God: 23:52this man went to 
Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus. 23:53And he took it 
down, and wrapped it in a linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb that was hewn in 
stone, where never man had yet lain. 23:54And it was the day of the Preparation, 
and the sabbath drew on. 23:55And the women, who had come with him 
out of Galilee, followed after, and beheld the tomb, and how his body was laid. 
23:56And they returned, and prepared spices 
and ointments. And on the sabbath they rested according to the commandment. 

24:1But on the first day of the week, at 
early dawn, they came unto the tomb, bringing the spices which they had 
prepared. 24:2And they found the stone rolled away 
from the tomb. 24:3And they entered in, and found not the 
body of the Lord Jesus. 24:4And it came to pass, while they were 
perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling apparel: 24:5and as they were affrighted and bowed 
down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among 
the dead? 24:6He is not here, but is risen: remember 
how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, 24:7saying that the Son 
of man must be delivered up into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and 
the third day rise again. 24:8And they remembered his words, 24:9and returned from the tomb, and told 
all these things to the eleven, and to all the rest. 24:10Now they were Mary 
Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James: and the other women 
with them told these things unto the apostles. 24:11And these words 
appeared in their sight as idle talk; and they disbelieved them. 24:12But Peter arose, and ran unto the 
tomb; and stooping and looking in, he seeth the linen cloths by themselves; and 
he departed to his home, wondering at that which was come to pass. 24:13And behold, two of them were going 
that very day to a village named Emmaus, which was threescore furlongs from 
Jerusalem. 24:14And they communed with each other of 
all these things which had happened. 24:15And it came to pass, while they 
communed and questioned together, that Jesus himself drew near, and went with 
them. 24:16But their eyes were holden that they 
should not know him. 24:17And he said unto them, What 
communications are these that ye have one with another, as ye walk? And they 
stood still, looking sad. 24:18And one of them, named Cleopas, 
answering said unto him, Dost thou alone sojourn in Jerusalem and not know the 
things which are come to pass there in these days? 24:19And he said unto 
them, What things? And they said unto him, The things concerning Jesus the 
Nazarene, who was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the 
people: 24:20and how the chief priests and our 
rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death, and crucified him. 24:21But we hoped that it was he who should 
redeem Israel. Yea and besides all this, it is now the third day since these 
things came to pass. 24:22Moreover certain women of our company 
amazed us, having been early at the tomb; 24:23and when they 
found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of 
angels, who said that he was alive. 24:24And certain of them that were with us 
went to the tomb, and found it even so as the women had said: but him they saw 
not. 24:25And he said unto them, O foolish men, 
and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken! 24:26Behooved it not the Christ to suffer 
these things, and to enter into his glory? 24:27And beginning from 
Moses and from all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures 
the things concerning himself. 24:28And they drew nigh unto the village, 
whither they were going: and he made as though he would go further. 24:29And they constrained him, saying, 
Abide with us; for it is toward evening, and the day is now far spent. And he 
went in to abide with them. 24:30And it came to pass, when he had sat 
down with them to meat, he took the bread and blessed; and breaking it he 
gave to them. 24:31And their eyes were opened, and they 
knew him; and he vanished out of their sight. 24:32And they said one 
to another, Was not our heart burning within us, while he spake to us in the 
way, while he opened to us the scriptures? 24:33And they rose up 
that very hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered 
together, and them that were with them, 24:34saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and 
hath appeared to Simon. 24:35And they rehearsed the things that 
happened in the way, and how he was known of them in the breaking of the 
bread. 24:36And as they spake these things, he 
himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto 
you. 24:37But they were terrified and 
affrighted, and supposed that they beheld a spirit. 24:38And he said unto 
them, Why are ye troubled? and wherefore do questionings arise in your heart? 24:39See my hands and my feet, that it is I 
myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye behold 
me having. 24:40And when he had said this, he showed 
them his hands and his feet. 24:41And while they still disbelieved for 
joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here anything to eat? 24:42And they gave him a piece of a broiled 
fish. 24:43And he took it, and ate before them. 
24:44And he said unto them, These are my 
words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must 
needs be fulfilled, which are written in the law of Moses, and the prophets, and 
the psalms, concerning me. 24:45Then opened he their mind, that they 
might understand the scriptures; 24:46and he said unto them, Thus it is 
written, that the Christ should suffer, and rise again from the dead the third 
day; 24:47and that repentance and remission of 
sins should be preached in his name unto all the nations, beginning from 
Jerusalem. 24:48Ye are witnesses of these things. 24:49And behold, I send forth the promise 
of my Father upon you: but tarry ye in the city, until ye be clothed with power 
from on high. 24:50And he led them out until they 
were over against Bethany: and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them. 24:51And it came to pass, while he blessed 
them, he parted from them, and was carried up into heaven. 24:52And they 
worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy: 24:53and were 
continually in the temple, blessing God. 

