
The Gospel of Luke












The Gospel According to Luke 

1:1Since many have undertaken to set in 
order a narrative concerning those matters which have been fulfilled among us, 
1:2even as those who from the beginning 
were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word delivered them to us, 1:3it 
seemed good to me also, having traced the course of all things accurately from 
the first, to write to you in order, most excellent Theophilus; 1:4that 
you might know the certainty concerning the things in which you were instructed. 

1:5There was in the days of Herod, the king 
of Judea, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the priestly division of Abijah. 
He had a wife of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. 1:6They 
were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and 
ordinances of the Lord. 1:7But they had no child, because Elizabeth 
was barren, and they both were well advanced in years. 1:8Now it happened, 
while he executed the priest's office before God in the order of his division, 
1:9according to the custom of the priest's 
office, his lot was to enter into the temple of the Lord and burn incense. 1:10The whole multitude of the people were 
praying outside at the hour of incense. 
1:11An angel of the Lord appeared to him, 
standing on the right side of the altar of incense. 1:12Zacharias was 
troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him. 1:13But the angel said 
to him, "Don't be afraid, Zacharias, because your request has been heard, and 
your wife, Elizabeth, will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. 1:14You will have joy and gladness; and 
many will rejoice at his birth. 1:15For he will be great in the sight of 
the Lord, and he will drink no wine nor strong drink. He will be filled with the 
Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. 1:16He will turn many 
of the children of Israel to the Lord, their God. 1:17He will go before 
him in the spirit and power of Elijah, 'to turn the hearts of the fathers to the 
children,' and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to make ready a people 
prepared for the Lord." 
1:18Zacharias said to the angel, "How can I 
be sure of this? For I am an old man, and my wife is well advanced in years." 
1:19The angel answered him, "I am Gabriel, 
who stands in the presence of God. I was sent to speak to you, and to bring you 
this good news. 1:20Behold, you will be silent and not able 
to speak, until the day that these things will happen, because you didn't 
believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their proper time." 
1:21The people were waiting for Zacharias, 
and they marveled that he delayed in the temple. 1:22When he came out, 
he could not speak to them, and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the 
temple. He continued making signs to them, and remained mute. 1:23It 
happened, when the days of his service were fulfilled, he departed to his house. 
1:24After these days Elizabeth, his wife, 
conceived, and she hid herself five months, saying, 1:25"Thus has the Lord 
done to me in the days in which he looked at me, to take away my reproach among 
men." 
1:26Now in the sixth month, the angel 
Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee, named Nazareth, 1:27to 
a virgin pledged to be married to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of 
David. The virgin's name was Mary. 1:28Having come in, the angel said to her, 
"Rejoice, you highly favored one! The Lord is with you. Blessed are you among 
women!" 
1:29But when she saw him, she was greatly 
troubled at the saying, and considered what kind of salutation this might be. 1:30The angel said to her, "Don't be 
afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. 1:31Behold, you will 
conceive in your womb, and bring forth a son, and will call his name 'Jesus.' 1:32He 
will be great, and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will 
give him the throne of his father, David, 1:33and he will reign 
over the house of Jacob forever. There will be no end to his Kingdom." 
1:34Mary said to the angel, "How can this 
be, seeing I am a virgin?" 
1:35The angel answered her, "The Holy 
Spirit will come on you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. 
Therefore also the holy one who is born from you will be called the Son of God. 
1:36Behold, Elizabeth, your relative, also 
has conceived a son in her old age; and this is the sixth month with her who was 
called barren. 1:37For everything spoken by God is 
possible." 
1:38Mary said, "Behold, the handmaid of the 
Lord; be it to me according to your word." 
The angel departed from her. 1:39Mary arose in those days and went into 
the hill country with haste, into a city of Judah, 1:40and entered into 
the house of Zacharias and greeted Elizabeth. 1:41It happened, when 
Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, that the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth 
was filled with the Holy Spirit. 1:42She called out with a loud voice, and 
said, "Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb! 1:43Why am I so favored, that the mother of 
my Lord should come to me? 1:44For behold, when the voice of your 
greeting came into my ears, the baby leaped in my womb for joy! 1:45Blessed is she who believed, for there 
will be a fulfillment of the things which have been spoken to her from the 
Lord!" 
1:46Mary said, 
 "My soul magnifies the Lord.      1:47My 
spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior,      1:48For he has looked at the humble state 
of his handmaid. 
 For behold, from now on, all generations will call me 
blessed.      1:49For he who is 
mighty has done great things for me.      Holy 
is his name.      1:50His mercy is for 
generations of generations on those who fear him. 
 1:51He has shown strength with his 
arm.      He has scattered the proud in the 
imagination of their heart. 
 1:52He has put down princes from their 
thrones.      And has exalted the lowly. 
 1:53He has filled the hungry with good 
things.      He has sent the rich away empty. 
 1:54He has given help to Israel, his 
servant, that he might remember mercy,      1:55As 
he spoke to our fathers,      To Abraham and 
his seed forever." 
1:56Mary stayed with her about three 
months, and then returned to her house. 1:57Now the time that Elizabeth should give 
birth was fulfilled, and she brought forth a son. 1:58Her neighbors and 
her relatives heard that the Lord had magnified his mercy towards her, and they 
rejoiced with her. 1:59It happened on the eighth day, that 
they came to circumcise the child; and they would have called him Zacharias, 
after the name of the father. 1:60His mother answered, "Not so; but he 
will be called John." 
1:61They said to her, "There is no one 
among your relatives who is called by this name." 1:62They made signs to 
his father, what he would have him called. 
1:63He asked for a writing tablet, and 
wrote, "His name is John." 
They all marveled. 1:64His mouth was opened immediately, and 
his tongue freed, and he spoke, blessing God. 1:65Fear came on all 
who lived around them, and all these sayings were talked about throughout all 
the hill country of Judea. 1:66All who heard them laid them up in 
their heart, saying, "What then will this child be?" The hand of the Lord was 
with him. 1:67His father, Zacharias, was filled with 
the Holy Spirit, and prophesied, saying, 
 1:68"Blessed be the Lord, the God of 
Israel,      For he has visited and worked 
redemption for his people; 
 1:69And has raised up a horn of salvation 
for us in the house of his servant 
David      1:70(As he spoke by the 
mouth of his holy prophets who have been from of 
old),      1:71Salvation from our 
enemies, and from the hand of all who hate us; 
 1:72To show mercy towards our 
fathers,      To remember his holy covenant, 
 1:73The oath which he spoke to Abraham, our 
father,      1:74To grant to us that 
we, being delivered out of the hand of our enemies, should serve him without 
fear,      1:75In holiness and 
righteousness before him all the days of our life. 
 1:76And you, child, will be called a 
prophet of the Most High,      For you will go 
before the face of the Lord to make ready his 
ways,      1:77To give knowledge 
of salvation to his people by the remission of their sins, 
 1:78Because of the tender mercy of our 
God,      Whereby the dawn from on high will 
visit us,      1:79To shine on those 
who sit in darkness and the shadow of 
death;      To guide our feet into the way of 
peace." 
1:80The child was growing, and becoming 
strong in spirit, and was in the desert until the day of his public appearance 
to Israel. 
2:1Now it happened in those days, that a 
decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be enrolled. 2:2This 
was the first enrollment made when Quirinius was governor of Syria. 2:3All 
went to enroll themselves, everyone to his own city. 2:4Joseph also went up 
from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, to the city of David, 
which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and family of David; 2:5to 
enroll himself with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him as wife, being 
pregnant. 
2:6It happened, while they were there, that 
the day had come that she should give birth. 2:7She brought forth 
her firstborn son, and she wrapped him in bands of cloth, and laid him in a 
feeding trough, because there was no room for them in the inn. 2:8There were shepherds in the same country 
staying in the field, and keeping watch by night over their flock. 2:9Behold, an angel of the Lord stood by 
them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified. 2:10The angel said to them, "Don't be 
afraid, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy which will be to all the 
people. 2:11For there is born to you, this day, in 
the city of David, a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. 2:12This is the sign to 
you: you will find a baby wrapped in strips of cloth, lying in a feeding 
trough." 2:13Suddenly, there was with the angel a 
multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, 
 2:14"Glory to God in the 
highest,      On earth peace, good will toward 
men." 
2:15It happened, when the angels went away 
from them into the sky, that the shepherds said one to another, "Let's go to 
Bethlehem, now, and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made 
known to us." 2:16They came with haste, and found both 
Mary and Joseph, and the baby was lying in the feeding trough. 2:17When they saw it, they publicized 
widely the saying which was spoken to them about this child. 2:18All who heard it 
wondered at the things which were spoken to them by the shepherds. 2:19But Mary kept all these sayings, 
pondering them in her heart. 2:20The shepherds returned, glorifying and 
praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, just as it was 
told them. 
2:21When eight days were fulfilled for the 
circumcision of the child, his name was called Jesus, which was given by the 
angel before he was conceived in the womb. 
2:22When the days of their purification 
according to the law of Moses were fulfilled, they brought him up to Jerusalem, 
to present him to the Lord 2:23(as it is written in the law of the 
Lord, "Every male who opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord"), 2:24and to offer a sacrifice according to 
that which is said in the law of the Lord, "A pair of turtledoves, or two young 
pigeons." 
2:25Behold, there was a man in Jerusalem 
whose name was Simeon. This man was righteous and devout, looking for the 
consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was on him. 2:26It had been 
revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he should not see death before he had 
seen the Lord's Christ. 2:27He 
came in the Spirit into the temple. When the parents brought in the child, 
Jesus, that they might do concerning him according to the custom of the law, 2:28then he received him into his arms, and 
blessed God, and said, 
 2:29"Now you are releasing your servant, 
Master,      According to your word, in peace; 

 2:30For my eyes have seen your 
salvation,      2:31Which you have 
prepared before the face of all peoples; 
 2:32A light for revelation to the 
Gentiles,      And the glory of your people 
Israel." 
2:33Joseph and his mother were marveling at 
the things which were spoken concerning him, 2:34and Simeon blessed 
them, and said to Mary, his mother, "Behold, this child is set for the falling 
and the rising of many in Israel, and for a sign which is spoken against. 2:35Yes, a sword will pierce through your 
own soul, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed." 
2:36There was one Anna, a prophetess, the 
daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher (she was of a great age, having lived 
with a husband seven years from her virginity, 2:37and she had been a 
widow for about eighty-four years), who didn't depart from the temple, 
worshipping with fastings and petitions night and day. 2:38Coming up at that 
very hour, she gave thanks to the Lord, and spoke of him to all those who were 
looking for redemption in Jerusalem. 
2:39When they had accomplished all things 
that were according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their 
own city, Nazareth. 2:40The child was growing, and was becoming 
strong in spirit, being filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. 
2:41His parents went every year to 
Jerusalem at the feast of the Passover. 
2:42When he was twelve years old, they went 
up to Jerusalem according to the custom of the feast, 2:43and when they had 
fulfilled the days, as they were returning, the boy Jesus stayed behind in 
Jerusalem. Joseph and his mother didn't know it, 2:44but supposing him 
to be in the company, they went a day's journey, and they looked for him among 
their relatives and acquaintances. 2:45When they didn't find him, they 
returned to Jerusalem, looking for him. 2:46It happened after three days they found 
him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both listening to them, 
and asking them questions. 2:47All who heard him were amazed at his 
understanding and his answers. 2:48When they saw him, they were 
astonished, and his mother said to him, "Son, why have you treated us this way? 
Behold, your father and I were anxiously looking for you." 
2:49He said to them, "Why were you looking for me? Didn't you know that I must be in my 
Father's house?" 2:50They didn't understand the saying which 
he spoke to them. 2:51And he went down with them, and came to 
Nazareth. He was subject to them, and his mother kept all these sayings in her 
heart. 2:52And Jesus increased in wisdom and 
stature, and in favor with God and men. 
3:1Now in the fifteenth year of the reign 
of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, and Herod being 
tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of the region of Ituraea 
and Trachonitis, and Lysanias tetrarch of Abilene, 3:2in the high 
priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came to John, the son of 
Zacharias, in the wilderness. 3:3He came into all the region around the 
Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for remission of sins. 3:4As 
it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet, 
 "The voice of one crying in the 
wilderness,      'Make ready the way of the 
Lord. 
 Make his paths straight.      3:5Every valley will be filled. 
 Every mountain and hill will be brought 
low.      The crooked will become 
straight,      And the rough ways smooth. 
 3:6All flesh will see God's salvation.'" 
3:7He said therefore to the multitudes who 
went out to be baptized by him, "You offspring of vipers, who warned you to flee 
from the wrath to come? 3:8Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of 
repentance, and don't begin to say among yourselves, 'We have Abraham for our 
father;' for I tell you that God is able to raise up children to Abraham from 
these stones! 3:9Even now the axe also lies at the root 
of the trees. Every tree therefore that doesn't bring forth good fruit is cut 
down, and thrown into the fire." 
3:10The multitudes asked him, "What then 
must we do?" 
3:11He answered them, "He who has two 
coats, let him give to him who has none. He who has food, let him do likewise." 
3:12Tax collectors also came to be 
baptized, and they said to him, "Teacher, what must we do?" 
3:13He said to them, "Collect no more than 
that which is appointed to you." 
3:14Soldiers also asked him, saying, "What 
about us? What must we do?" 
He said to them, "Extort from no one by violence, neither accuse anyone 
wrongfully. Be content with your wages." 
3:15As the people were in expectation, and 
all men reasoned in their hearts concerning John, whether perhaps he was the 
Christ, 3:16John answered them all, "I indeed 
baptize you with water, but he comes who is mightier than I, the latchet of 
whose sandals I am not worthy to loosen. He will baptize you in the Holy Spirit 
and fire, 3:17whose fan is in his hand, and he will 
thoroughly cleanse his threshing floor, and will gather the wheat into his barn; 
but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire." 
3:18Then with many other exhortations he 
preached good news to the people, 3:19but Herod the tetrarch, being reproved 
by him for Herodias, his brother's wife, and for 
all the evil things which Herod had done, 3:20added this also to 
them all, that he shut up John in prison. 3:21Now it happened, 
when all the people were baptized, Jesus also had been baptized, and was 
praying. The sky was opened, 3:22and the Holy Spirit descended in a 
bodily form as a dove on him; and a voice came out of the sky, saying "You are 
my beloved Son. In you I am well pleased." 
3:23Jesus himself, when he began to teach, 
was about thirty years old, being the son (as was supposed) of Joseph, the son 
of Heli, 3:24the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, 
the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph, 3:25the son of 
Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of 
Naggai, 3:26the son of Maath, the son of 
Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Joseph, the son of Judah, 3:27the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa, 
the son of Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, the son of Neri, 3:28the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the 
son of Cosam, the son of Elmodam, the son of Er, 3:29the son of Josa, 
the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, 3:30the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, 
the son of Joseph, the son of Jonan, the son of Eliakim, 3:31the son of Melea, 
the son of Menan, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David, 3:32the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the 
son of Boaz, the son of Salmon, the son of Nahshon, 3:33the son of 
Amminadab, the son of Aram, the son of Joram, the son 
of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah, 3:34the son of Jacob, 
the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor, 3:35the son of Serug, the son of Reu, the 
son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shelah 3:36the son of Cainan, 
the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech, 3:37the son of Methuselah, the son of 
Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the son of Cainan, 3:38the son of Enos, the son of Seth, the 
son of Adam, the son of God. 
4:1Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned 
from the Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness 4:2for 
forty days, being tempted by the devil. He ate nothing in those days. Afterward, 
when they were completed, he was hungry. 4:3The devil said to him, "If you are the 
Son of God, command this stone to become bread." 
4:4Jesus answered him, saying, "It is written, 'Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every 
word of God.'"
4:5The devil, leading him up on a high 
mountain, showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. 4:6The 
devil said to him, "I will give you all this authority, and their glory, for it 
has been delivered to me; and I give it to whomever I want. 4:7If you therefore 
will worship before me, it will all be yours." 
4:8Jesus answered him, "Get behind me Satan! For it is written, 'You shall worship the 
Lord your God, and him only shall you serve.'"
4:9He led him to Jerusalem, and set him on 
the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, "If you are the Son of God, cast 
yourself down from here, 4:10for it is written, 
 'He will give his angels charge concerning you, to guard you;' 
4:11and, 
 'On their hands they will bear you 
up,      Lest perhaps you dash your foot 
against a stone.'" 
4:12Jesus answering, said to him, "It has been said, 'You shall not tempt the Lord your 
God.'"
4:13When the devil had completed every 
temptation, he departed from him until another time. 
4:14Jesus returned in the power of the 
Spirit into Galilee, and news about him spread through all the surrounding area. 
4:15He taught in their synagogues, being 
glorified by all. 
4:16He came to Nazareth, where he had been 
brought up. He entered, as was his custom, into the synagogue on the Sabbath 
day, and stood up to read. 4:17The book of the prophet Isaiah was 
handed to him. He opened the book, and found the place where it was written, 
 4:18"The Spirit of the 
Lord is on me,      Because he has anointed me 
to preach good news to the poor. 
 He has sent me to heal the 
brokenhearted,      To proclaim release to the 
captives,      Recovering of sight to the 
blind,      To deliver those who are 
crushed,      4:19And to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord."
4:20He closed the book, gave it back to the 
attendant, and sat down. The eyes of all in the synagogue were fastened on him. 
4:21He began to tell them, "Today, this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing."
4:22All testified about him, and wondered 
at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth, and they said, "Isn't 
this Joseph's son?" 
4:23He said to them, "Doubtless you will tell me this parable, 'Physician, heal 
yourself! Whatever we have heard done at Capernaum, do also here in your 
hometown.'" 4:24He said, "Most 
assuredly I tell you, no prophet is acceptable in his hometown. 4:25But truly I tell 
you, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the sky was 
shut up three years and six months, when a great famine came over all the land. 
4:26Elijah was sent to 
none of them, except to Zarephath, in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a 
widow. 4:27There were many 
lepers in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet, yet not one of them was 
cleansed, except Naaman, the Syrian."
4:28They were all filled with wrath in the 
synagogue, as they heard these things. 4:29They rose up, threw him out of the 
city, and led him to the brow of the hill that their city was built on, that 
they might throw him off the cliff. 4:30But he, passing through the midst of 
them, went his way. 
4:31He came down to Capernaum, a city of 
Galilee. He was teaching them on the Sabbath day, 4:32and they were 
astonished at his teaching, for his word was with authority. 4:33In the synagogue 
there was a man who had a spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a 
loud voice, 4:34saying, "Ah! what have we to do with 
you, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know you who you are: the 
Holy One of God!" 
4:35Jesus rebuked him, saying, "Be silent, and come out of him!" When the demon had thrown 
him down in their midst, he came out of him, having done him no harm. 
4:36Amazement came on all, and they spoke 
together, one with another, saying, "What is this word? For with authority and 
power he commands the unclean spirits, and they come out!" 4:37News about him went 
out into every place of the surrounding region. 
4:38He rose up from the synagogue, and 
entered into Simon's house. Simon's mother-in-law was afflicted with a great 
fever, and they begged him for her. 4:39He stood over her, and rebuked the 
fever; and it left her. Immediately she rose up and served them. 4:40When the sun was setting, all those who 
had any sick with various diseases brought them to him; and he laid his hands on 
every one of them, and healed them. 4:41Demons also came out from many, crying 
out, and saying, "You are the Christ, the Son of God!" Rebuking them, he didn't 
allow them to speak, because they knew that he was the Christ. 
4:42When it was day, he departed and went 
into an uninhabited place, and the multitudes looked for him, and came to him, 
and held on to him, so that he wouldn't go away from them. 4:43But he said to 
them, "I must preach the good news of the Kingdom of God to 
the other cities also. For this reason I have been sent." 4:44He 
was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee. 
5:1Now it happened, while the multitude 
pressed on him and heard the word of God, that he was standing by the lake of 
Gennesaret. 5:2He saw two boats standing by the lake, 
but the fishermen had gone out of them, and were washing their nets. 5:3He 
entered into one of the boats, which was Simon's, and asked him to put out a 
little from the land. He sat down and taught the multitudes from the boat. 5:4When 
he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, "Put out into 
the deep, and let down your nets for a catch."
5:5Simon answered him, "Master, we worked 
all night, and took nothing; but at your word I will let down the net." 5:6When 
they had done this, they caught a great multitude of fish, and their net was 
breaking. 5:7They beckoned to their partners in the 
other boat, that they should come and help them. They came, and filled both 
boats, so that they began to sink. 5:8But Simon Peter, when he saw it, fell 
down at Jesus' knees, saying, "Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, Lord." 5:9For 
he was amazed, and all who were with him, at the catch of fish which they had 
caught; 5:10and so also were James and John, sons 
of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. 
Jesus said to Simon, "Don't be afraid. From now on you 
will be catching people alive."
5:11When they had brought their boats to 
land, they left everything, and followed him. 5:12It happened, while 
he was in one of the cities, behold, there was a man full of leprosy. When he 
saw Jesus, he fell on his face, and begged him, saying, "Lord, if you want to, 
you can make me clean." 
5:13He stretched out his hand, and touched 
him, saying, "I want to. Be made clean."
Immediately the leprosy left him. 5:14He charged him to tell no one, "But go your way, and show yourself to the priest, and offer for 
your cleansing according to what Moses commanded, for a testimony to 
them." 5:15But the report concerning him spread 
much more, and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him 
of their infirmities. 5:16But he withdrew himself into the 
desert, and prayed. 
5:17It happened on one of those days, that 
he was teaching; and there were Pharisees and teachers of the law sitting by, 
who had come out of every village of Galilee, Judea, and Jerusalem. The power of 
the Lord was with him to heal them. 5:18Behold, men brought a paralyzed man on 
a cot, and they sought to bring him in to lay before Jesus. 5:19Not finding a way 
to bring him in because of the multitude, they went up to the housetop, and let 
him down through the tiles with his cot into the midst before Jesus. 5:20Seeing their faith, he said to him, 
"Man, your sins are forgiven you."
5:21The scribes and the Pharisees began to 
reason, saying, "Who is this that speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but 
God alone?" 
5:22But Jesus, perceiving their thoughts, 
answered them, "Why are you reasoning so in your hearts? 
5:23Which is easier to 
say, 'Your sins are forgiven you;' or to say, 'Arise and walk?' 5:24But that you may 
know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins" (he said 
to the paralyzed man), "I tell you, arise, and take up your 
cot, and go to your house."
5:25Immediately he rose up before them, and 
took up that which he was laying on, and departed to his house, glorifying God. 
5:26Amazement took hold on all, and they 
glorified God. They were filled with fear, saying, "We have seen strange things 
today." 
5:27After these things he went out, and saw 
a tax collector named Levi sitting at the tax office, and said to him, "Follow me!"
5:28He left everything, and rose up and 
followed him. 5:29Levi made a great feast for him in his 
house. There was a great crowd of tax collectors and others who were reclining 
with them. 5:30Their scribes and the Pharisees 
murmured against his disciples, saying, "Why do you eat and drink with the tax 
collectors and sinners?" 5:31Jesus answered them, "Those who are healthy have no need for a physician, but those who 
are sick do. 5:32I have not come to 
call the righteous, but sinners to repentance."
5:33They said to him, "Why do John's 
disciples often fast and pray, likewise also the disciples of the Pharisees, but 
yours eat and drink?" 
5:34He said to them, "Can you make the friends of the bridegroom fast, while the 
bridegroom is with them? 5:35But the days will 
come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them. Then they will fast in 
those days." 5:36He also told a parable to them. "No one puts a piece from a new garment on an old garment, or else 
he will tear the new, and also the piece from the new will not match the old. 
5:37No one puts new 
wine into old wineskins, or else the new wine will burst the skins, and it will 
be spilled, and the skins will be destroyed. 5:38But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins, and both are 
preserved. 5:39No man having drunk 
old wine immediately desires new, for he says, 'The old is better.'"
6:1Now it happened on the second Sabbath 
after the first, that he was going through the grain fields. His disciples 
plucked the heads of grain, and ate, rubbing them in their hands. 6:2But 
some of the Pharisees said to them, "Why do you do that which is not lawful to 
do on the Sabbath day?" 
6:3Jesus, answering them, said, "Haven't you read what David did when he was hungry, he, and those 
who were with him; 6:4how he entered into 
the house of God, and took and ate the show bread, and gave also to those who 
were with him, which is not lawful to eat except for the priests alone?"
6:5He said to them, "The Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath."
6:6It also happened on another Sabbath that 
he entered into the synagogue and taught. There was a man there, and his right 
hand was withered. 6:7The scribes and the Pharisees watched 
him, to see whether he would heal on the Sabbath, that they might find an 
accusation against him. 6:8But he knew their thoughts; and he said 
to the man who had the withered hand, "Rise up, and stand in 
the middle." He arose and stood. 6:9Then Jesus said to them, "I will ask you something: Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good, 
or to do harm? To save a life, or to kill?" 6:10He looked around at 
them all, and said to the man, "Stretch out your 
hand." He did, and his hand was restored as sound as the other. 6:11But they were filled with rage, and 
talked with one another about what they might do to Jesus. 
6:12It happened in these days, that he went 
out to the mountain to pray, and he continued all night in prayer to God. 6:13When it was day, he called his 
disciples, and from them he chose twelve, whom he also named apostles: 6:14Simon, whom he also named Peter; 
Andrew, his brother; James; John; Philip; Bartholomew; 6:15Matthew; Thomas; 
James, the son of Alphaeus; Simon, who was called the Zealot; 6:16Judas the son of James; and Judas 
Iscariot, who also became a traitor. 6:17He came down with them, and stood on a 
level place, with a crowd of his disciples, and a great number of the people 
from all Judea and Jerusalem, and the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, who came to 
hear him and to be healed of their diseases; 6:18as well as those 
who were troubled by unclean spirits, and they were being healed. 6:19All the multitude sought to touch him, 
for power came out from him and healed them all. 
6:20He lifted up his eyes to his disciples, 
and said, 
 "Blessed are you who are 
poor,      For yours is the Kingdom of God. 
 6:21Blessed are you who 
hunger now,      For you will be filled. 
 Blessed are you who weep 
now,      For you will laugh. 
 6:22Blessed are you 
when men shall hate you, and when they shall exclude and mock you, and throw out 
your name as evil, for the Son of Man's 
sake.      6:23Rejoice in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is 
great in heaven, for their fathers did the same thing to the prophets. 

 6:24"But woe to you who 
are rich!      For you have received your 
consolation. 
 6:25Woe to you, you who 
are full now!      For you will be hungry. 
 Woe to you who laugh now!      For 
you will mourn and weep. 
 6:26Woe,* when* men speak well of you!      For 
their fathers did the same thing to the false prophets. 
6:27"But I tell you who 
hear: love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, 6:28bless those who 
curse you, and pray for those who mistreat you. 6:29To him who strikes you on the cheek, offer also the other; and 
from him who takes away your cloak, don't withhold your coat also. 6:30Give to everyone 
who asks you, and don't ask him who takes away your goods to give them back 
again. 
6:31"As you would like 
people to do to you, do exactly so to them. 6:32If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For 
even sinners love those who love them. 6:33If you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to 
you? For even sinners do the same. 6:34If you lend to those from whom you hope to receive, what credit is 
that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, to receive back as much. 6:35But love your 
enemies, and do good, and lend, expecting nothing back; and your reward will be 
great, and you will be children of the Most High; for he is kind toward the 
unthankful and evil. 
 6:36Therefore be 
merciful,      Even as your Father is also 
merciful. 
 6:37Don't 
judge,      And you won't be judged. 
 Don't condemn,      And you won't be 
condemned. 
 Set free,      And you will be set 
free. 
6:38"Give, and it will 
be given to you: good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, 
will be given to you. 
For with the same measure you measure it will be measured back to you."
6:39He spoke a parable to them. "Can the blind guide the blind? Won't they both fall into a pit? 
6:40A disciple is not 
above his teacher, but everyone when he is fully trained will be like his 
teacher. 6:41Why do you see the 
speck of chaff that is in your brother's eye, but don't consider the beam that 
is in your own eye? 6:42Or how can you tell 
your brother, 'Brother, let me remove the speck of chaff that is in your eye,' 
when you yourself don't see the beam that is in your own eye? You hypocrite! 
First remove the beam from your own eye, and then you can see clearly to remove 
the speck of chaff that is in your brother's eye. 6:43For there is no good tree that brings forth rotten fruit; nor 
again a rotten tree that brings forth good fruit. 6:44For each tree is known by its own fruit. For people don't gather 
figs from thorns, nor do they gather grapes from a bramble bush. 6:45The good man out of 
the good treasure of his heart brings out that which is good, and the evil man 
out of the evil treasure of his heart brings out that which is evil, for out of 
the abundance of the heart, his mouth speaks. 
6:46"Why do you call 
me, 'Lord, Lord,' and don't do the things which I say? 6:47Everyone who comes 
to me, and hears my words, and does them, I will show you who he is like. 
6:48He is like a man 
building a house, who dug and went deep, and laid a foundation on the rock. When 
a flood arose, the stream broke against that house, and could not shake it, 
because it was founded on the rock. 6:49But he who hears, and doesn't do, is like a man who built a house 
on the earth without a foundation, against which the stream broke, and 
immediately it fell, and the ruin of that house was great."
7:1After he had finished speaking in the 
hearing of the people, he entered into Capernaum. 7:2A certain 
centurion's servant, who was dear to him, was sick and at the point of death. 7:3When 
he heard about Jesus, he sent to him elders of the Jews, asking him to come and 
save his servant. 7:4When they came to Jesus, they begged him 
earnestly, saying, "He is worthy for you to do this for him, 7:5for he loves our 
nation, and he built our synagogue for us." 7:6Jesus went with 
them. When he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, 
saying to him, "Lord, don't trouble yourself, for I am not worthy for you to 
come under my roof. 7:7Therefore I didn't even think myself 
worthy to come to you; but say the word, and my servant will be healed. 7:8For 
I also am a man placed under authority, having under myself soldiers. I tell 
this one, 'Go!' and he goes; and to another, 'Come!' and he comes; and to my 
servant, 'Do this,' and he does it." 
7:9When Jesus heard these things, he 
marveled at him, and turned and said to the multitude who followed him, "I tell you, I have not found such great faith, no, not in 
Israel." 7:10Those who were sent, returning to the 
house, found that the servant who had been sick was well. 
7:11It happened soon afterwards, that he 
went to a city called Nain. Many of his disciples, along with a great multitude, 
went with him. 7:12Now when he drew near to the gate of 
the city, behold, one who was dead was carried out, the only son of his mother, 
and she was a widow. Many people of the city were with her. 7:13When the Lord saw 
her, he had compassion on her, and said to her, "Don't 
cry." 7:14He came near and touched the coffin, 
and the bearers stood still. He said, "Young man, I tell 
you, arise!" 7:15He who was dead sat up, and began to 
speak. And he gave him to his mother. 
7:16Fear took hold of all, and they 
glorified God, saying, "A great prophet has arisen among us!" and, "God has 
visited his people!" 7:17This report went out concerning him in 
the whole of Judea, and in all the surrounding region. 
7:18The disciples of John told him about 
all these things. 7:19John, calling to himself two of his 
disciples, sent them to Jesus, saying, "Are you the one who is coming, or should 
we look for another?" 7:20When the men had come to him, they 
said, "John the Baptizer has sent us to you, saying, 'Are you he who comes, or 
should we look for another?'" 
7:21In that hour he cured many of diseases 
and plagues and evil spirits; and to many who were blind he gave sight. 7:22Jesus answered them, "Go and tell John the things which you have seen and heard: that 
the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf 
hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them. 
7:23Blessed is he who 
is not offended by me."
7:24When John's messengers had departed, he 
began to tell the multitudes about John, "What did you go 
out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? 7:25But what did you go 
out to see? A man clothed in soft clothing? Behold, those who are gorgeously 
dressed, and live delicately, are in kings' courts. 7:26But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and 
much more than a prophet. 7:27This is he of whom 
it is written, 
 'Behold, I send my messenger before your 
face,      Who will prepare your way before 
you.' 
7:28"For I tell you, 
among those who are born of women there is not a greater prophet than John the 
Baptizer, yet he who is least in the Kingdom of God is greater than he."
7:29When all the people and the tax 
collectors heard this, they declared God to be just, having been baptized with 
John's baptism. 7:30But the Pharisees and the lawyers 
rejected the counsel of God, not being baptized by him themselves. 
7:31But the Lord said, "To what then will I liken the people of this generation? What are 
they like? 7:32They are like 
children who sit in the marketplace, and call one to another, saying, 'We piped 
to you, and you didn't dance. We mourned, and you didn't weep.' 7:33For John the 
Baptizer came neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, 'He has a 
demon.' 7:34The Son of Man has 
come eating and drinking, and you say, 'Behold, a gluttonous man, and a 
drunkard; a friend of tax collectors and sinners!' 7:35Wisdom is justified by all her children."
7:36One of the Pharisees invited him to eat 
with him. He entered into the Pharisee's house, and sat at the table. 7:37Behold, a woman in the city who was a 
sinner, when she knew that he was reclining in the Pharisee's house, she brought 
an alabaster jar of ointment. 7:38Standing behind at his feet weeping, 
she began to wet his feet with her tears, and she wiped them with the hair of 
her head, kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment. 7:39Now when the Pharisee who had invited 
him saw it, he said to himself, "This man, if he were a prophet, would have 
perceived who and what kind of woman this is who touches him, that she is a 
sinner." 
7:40Jesus answered him, "Simon, I have something to tell you."
He said, "Teacher, say on." 
7:41"A certain lender 
had two debtors. The one owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty. 
7:42When they couldn't 
pay, he forgave them both. Which of them therefore will love him most?"
7:43Simon answered, "He, I suppose, to whom 
he forgave the most." 
He said to him, "You have judged correctly." 7:44Turning to the woman, he said to Simon, 
"Do you see this woman? I entered into your house, and you 
gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with her tears, and wiped 
them with the hair of her head. 7:45You gave me no 
kiss, but she, since the time I came in, has not ceased to kiss my feet. 
7:46You didn't anoint 
my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment. 7:47Therefore I tell 
you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much. But to whom 
little is forgiven, the same loves little." 7:48He said to her, 
"Your sins are forgiven."
7:49Those who sat at the table with him 
began to say to themselves, "Who is this who even forgives sins?" 
7:50He said to the woman, "Your faith has saved you. Go in peace."
8:1It happened soon afterwards, that he 
went about through cities and villages, preaching and bringing the good news of 
the Kingdom of God. With him were the twelve, 8:2and certain women 
who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary who was called 
Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out; 8:3and Joanna, the wife 
of Chuzas, Herod's steward; Susanna; and many others; who ministered to them from their 
possessions. 8:4When a great multitude came together, 
and people from every city were coming to him, he spoke by a parable. 8:5"The farmer went out 
to sow his seed. As he sowed, some fell along the road, and it was trampled 
under foot, and the birds of the sky devoured it. 8:6Other seed fell on the rock, and as soon as it grew, it withered 
away, because it had no moisture. 8:7Other fell amid the 
thorns, and the thorns grew with it, and choked it. 8:8Other fell into the good ground, and grew, and brought forth fruit 
one hundred times." As he said these things, he called out, "He who has ears to hear, let him hear!"
8:9Then his disciples asked him, "What does 
this parable mean?" 
8:10He said, "To you it 
is given to know the mysteries of the Kingdom of God, but to the rest in 
parables; that 'seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand.' 
8:11Now the parable is 
this: The seed is the word of God. 8:12Those along the road are those who hear, then the devil comes, and 
takes away the word from their heart, that they may not believe and be saved. 
8:13Those on the rock 
are they who, when they hear, receive the word with joy; but these have no root, 
who believe for a while, then fall away in time of temptation. 8:14That which fell 
among the thorns, these are those who have heard, and as they go on their way 
they are choked with cares, riches, and pleasures of life, and bring no fruit to 
maturity. 8:15That in the good 
ground, these are such as in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, 
hold it tightly, and bring forth fruit with patience. 
8:16"No one, when he 
has lit a lamp, covers it with a container, or puts it under a bed; but puts it 
on a stand, that those who enter in may see the light. 8:17For nothing is 
hidden, that will not be revealed; nor anything secret, that will not be known 
and come to light. 8:18Be careful 
therefore how you hear. For whoever has, to him will be given; and whoever 
doesn't have, from him will be taken away even that which he thinks he 
has."
8:19His mother and brothers came to him, 
and they could not come near him for the crowd. 8:20It was told him by 
some saying, "Your mother and your brothers stand outside, desiring to see you." 

8:21But he answered them, "My mother and my brothers are these who hear the word of God, and 
do it."
8:22Now it happened on one of those days, 
that he entered into a boat, himself and his disciples, and he said to them, 
"Let's go over to the other side of the lake." So 
they launched out. 8:23But as they sailed, he fell asleep. A 
wind storm came down on the lake, and they were taking on dangerous amounts of 
water. 8:24They came to him, and awoke him, 
saying, "Master, master, we are dying!" He awoke, and rebuked the wind and the 
raging of the water, and they ceased, and it was calm. 8:25He said to them, 
"Where is your faith?" Being afraid they marveled, 
saying one to another, "Who is this, then, that he commands even the winds and 
the water, and they obey him?" 8:26They arrived at the country of the 
Gadarenes, which is opposite Galilee. 
8:27When Jesus stepped ashore, a certain 
man out of the city who had demons for a long time met him. He wore no clothes, 
and didn't live in a house, but in the tombs. 8:28When he saw Jesus, 
he cried out, and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, "What do I 
have to do with you, Jesus, you Son of the Most High God? I beg you, don't 
torment me!" 8:29For Jesus was commanding the unclean 
spirit to come out of the man. For the unclean spirit had often seized the man. 
He was kept under guard, and bound with chains and fetters. Breaking the bands 
apart, he was driven by the demon into the desert. 
8:30Jesus asked him, "What is your name?"
He said, "Legion," for many demons had entered into him. 8:31They begged him 
that he would not command them to go into the abyss. 8:32Now there was there 
a herd of many pigs feeding on the mountain, and they begged him that he would 
allow them to enter into those. He allowed them. 8:33The demons came out 
from the man, and entered into the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep bank 
into the lake, and were drowned. 8:34When those who fed them saw what had 
happened, they fled, and told it in the city and in the country. 
8:35People went out to see what had 
happened. They came to Jesus, and found the man from whom the demons had gone 
out, sitting at Jesus' feet, clothed and in his right mind; and they were 
afraid. 8:36Those who saw it told them how he who 
had been possessed by demons was healed. 8:37All the people of the surrounding 
country of the Gadarenes asked him to depart from them, for they were very much 
afraid. He entered into the boat, and returned. 8:38But the man from 
whom the demons had gone out begged him that he might go with him, but Jesus 
sent him away, saying, 8:39"Return to your 
house, and declare what great things God has done for you." He went his 
way, proclaiming throughout the whole city what great things Jesus had done for 
him. 
8:40It happened, when Jesus returned, that 
the multitude welcomed him, for they were all waiting for him. 8:41Behold, there came a man named Jairus, 
and he was a ruler of the synagogue. He fell down at Jesus' feet, and begged him 
to come into his house, 8:42for he had an only daughter, about 
twelve years of age, and she was dying. But as he went, the multitudes pressed 
against him. 8:43A woman who had a flow of blood for 
twelve years, who had spent all her living on physicians, and could not be 
healed by any, 8:44came behind him, and touched the fringe 
of his cloak, and immediately the flow of her blood stopped. 8:45Jesus said, "Who touched me?"
When all denied it, Peter and those with him said, "Master, the multitudes 
press and jostle you, and you say, 'Who touched me?'" 

8:46But Jesus said, "Someone did touch me, for I perceived that power has gone out of 
me." 8:47When the woman saw that she was not 
hidden, she came trembling, and falling down before him declared to him in the 
presence of all the people the reason why she had touched him, and how she was 
healed immediately. 8:48He said to her, "Daughter, cheer up. Your faith has made you well. Go in 
peace."
8:49While he still spoke, one from the 
ruler of the synagogue's house came, saying to him, "Your daughter is dead. 
Don't trouble the Teacher." 
8:50But Jesus hearing it, answered him, 
"Don't be afraid. Only believe, and she will be 
healed."
8:51When he came to the house, he didn't 
allow anyone to enter in, except Peter, John, James, the father of the child, 
and her mother. 8:52All were weeping and mourning her, but 
he said, "Don't weep. She isn't dead, but sleeping."
8:53They were ridiculing him, knowing that 
she was dead. 8:54But he put them all outside, and taking 
her by the hand, he called, saying, "Child, arise!"
8:55Her spirit returned, and she rose up 
immediately. He commanded that something be given to her to eat. 8:56Her parents were amazed, but he charged 
them to tell no one what had been done. 
9:1He called the twelve together, and 
gave them power and authority over all demons, and to cure diseases. 9:2He 
sent them forth to preach the Kingdom of God, and to heal the sick. 9:3He 
said to them, "Take nothing for your journey--neither 
staffs, nor wallet, nor bread, nor money; neither have two coats apiece. 
9:4Into whatever house 
you enter, stay there, and depart from there. 9:5As many as don't receive you, when you depart from that city, 
shake off even the dust from your feet for a testimony against them."
9:6They departed, and went throughout the 
villages, preaching the Gospel, and healing everywhere. 9:7Now Herod the 
tetrarch heard of all that was done by him; and he was very perplexed, because 
it was said by some that John had risen from the dead, 9:8and by some that 
Elijah had appeared, and by others that one of the old prophets had risen again. 
9:9Herod said, "John I beheaded, but who is 
this, about whom I hear such things?" He sought to see him. 9:10The apostles, when 
they had returned, told him what things they had done. 
He took them, and withdrew apart to a deserted place of a city called 
Bethsaida. 9:11But the multitudes, perceiving it, 
followed him. He welcomed them, and spoke to them of the Kingdom of God, and he 
cured those who needed healing. 9:12The day began to wear away; and the 
twelve came, and said to him, "Send the multitude away, that they may go into 
the surrounding villages and farms, and lodge, and get food, for we are here in 
a deserted place." 
9:13But he said to them, "You give them something to eat."
They said, "We have no more than five loaves and two fish, unless we should 
go and buy food for all these people." 9:14For they were about five thousand men. 
He said to his disciples, "Make them sit down in groups 
of about fifty each." 9:15They did so, and made them all sit 
down. 9:16He took the five loaves and the two 
fish, and looking up to the sky, he blessed them, and broke them, and gave them 
to the disciples to set before the multitude. 9:17They ate, and were 
all filled. They gathered up twelve baskets of broken pieces that were left 
over. 
9:18It happened, as he was praying alone, 
that the disciples were with him, and he asked them, "Who do 
the multitudes say that I am?"
9:19They answered, "'John the Baptizer,' 
but others say, 'Elijah,' and others, that one of the old prophets is risen 
again." 
9:20He said to them, "But who do you say that I am?"
Peter answered, "The Christ of God." 
9:21But he warned them, and commanded them 
to tell this to no one, 9:22saying, "The Son of 
Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, chief priests, and 
scribes, and be killed, and the third day be raised up."
9:23He said to all, "If 
anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself, take up his 
cross,* and follow me. 9:24For whoever desires 
to save his life will lose it, but whoever will lose his life for my sake, the 
same will save it. 9:25For what does it 
profit a man if he gains the whole world, and loses or forfeits his own self? 
9:26For whoever will be 
ashamed of me and of my words, of him will the Son of Man be ashamed, when he 
comes in his glory, and the glory of the Father, and of the holy angels. 
9:27But I tell you the 
truth: There are some of those who stand here, who will in no way taste of 
death, until they see the Kingdom of God."
9:28It happened about eight days after 
these sayings, that he took with him Peter, John, and James, and went up onto 
the mountain to pray. 9:29As he was praying, the appearance of 
his face was altered, and his clothing became white and dazzling. 9:30Behold, two men were talking with him, 
who were Moses and Elijah, 9:31who appeared in glory, and spoke of his 
departure, which he 
was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. 
9:32Now Peter and those who were with him 
were heavy with sleep, but when they were fully awake, they saw his glory, and 
the two men who stood with him. 9:33It happened, as they were parting from 
him, that Peter said to Jesus, "Master, it is good for us to be here. Let's make 
three tents: one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah," not knowing 
what he said. 
9:34While he said these things, a cloud 
came and overshadowed them, and they were afraid as they entered into the cloud. 
9:35A voice came out of the cloud, saying, 
"This is my beloved Son. Listen to him!" 9:36When the voice came, Jesus was found 
alone. They were silent, and told no one in those days any of the things which 
they had seen. 
9:37It happened on the next day, when they 
had come down from the mountain, that a great multitude met him. 9:38Behold, a man from the crowd called 
out, saying, "Teacher, I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only child. 9:39Behold, a spirit takes him, he suddenly 
cries out, and it convulses him so that he foams, and it hardly departs from 
him, bruising him severely. 9:40I begged your disciples to cast it out, 
and they couldn't." 
9:41Jesus answered, "Faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you 
and bear with you? Bring your son here."
9:42While he was still coming, the demon 
threw him down and convulsed him violently. But Jesus rebuked the unclean 
spirit, and healed the boy, and gave him back to his father. 9:43They were all 
astonished at the majesty of God. 
But while all were marveling at all the things which Jesus did, he said to 
his disciples, 9:44"Let these words 
sink into your ears, for the Son of Man will be delivered up into the hands of 
men." 9:45But they didn't understand this saying. 
It was concealed from them, that they should not perceive it, and they were 
afraid to ask him about this saying. 
9:46There arose an argument among them 
about which of them was the greatest. 9:47Jesus, perceiving the reasoning of 
their hearts, took a little child, and set him by his side, 9:48and said to them, 
"Whoever receives this little child in my name receives me. 
Whoever receives me receives him who sent me. For whoever is least among you 
all, this one will be great."
9:49John answered, "Master, we saw someone 
casting out demons in your name, and we forbade him, because he doesn't follow 
with us." 
9:50Jesus said to him, "Don't forbid him, for he who is not against us is for us."
9:51It came to pass, when the days were 
near that he should be taken up, he intently set his face to go to Jerusalem, 9:52and sent messengers before his face. 
They went, and entered into a village of the Samaritans, so as to prepare for 
him. 9:53They didn't receive him, because he was 
traveling with his face set towards Jerusalem. 9:54When his disciples, 
James and John, saw this, they said, "Lord, do you want us to command fire to 
come down from the sky, and destroy them, just as Elijah did?" 
9:55But he turned and rebuked them, "You don't know of what kind of spirit you are. 9:56For the Son of Man 
didn't come to destroy men's lives, but to save them."
They went to another village. 9:57As they went on the way, a certain man 
said to him, "I want to follow you wherever you go, Lord." 
9:58Jesus said to him, "The foxes have holes, and the birds of the sky have nests, but 
the Son of Man has no place to lay his head."
9:59He said to another, "Follow me!"
But he said, "Lord, allow me first to go and bury my father." 
9:60But Jesus said to him, "Leave the dead to bury their own dead, but you go and announce 
the Kingdom of God."
9:61Another also said, "I want to follow 
you, Lord, but first allow me to bid farewell to those who are at my house." 
9:62But Jesus said to him, "No one, having put his hand to the plow, and looking back, is fit 
for the Kingdom of God."
10:1Now after these things, the Lord also 
appointed seventy others, and sent them two by two ahead of him into every 
city and place, where he was about to come. 10:2Then he said to 
them, "The harvest is indeed plentiful, but the laborers are 
few. Pray therefore to the Lord of the harvest, that he may send out laborers 
into his harvest. 10:3Go your ways. 
Behold, I send you out as lambs among wolves. 10:4Carry no purse, nor wallet, nor sandals. Greet no one on the way. 
10:5Into whatever house 
you enter, first say, 'Peace be to this house.' 10:6If a son of peace is there, your peace will rest on him; but if 
not, it will return to you. 10:7Remain in that same 
house, eating and drinking the things they give, for the laborer is worthy of 
his wages. Don't go from house to house. 10:8Into whatever city you enter, and they receive you, eat the things 
that are set before you. 10:9Heal the sick who 
are therein, and tell them, 'The Kingdom of God has come near to you.' 10:10But into whatever 
city you enter, and they don't receive you, go out into the streets of it and 
say, 10:11'Even the dust 
from your city that clings to us, we wipe off against you. Nevertheless know 
this, that the Kingdom of God has come near to you.' 10:12I tell you, it will be more tolerable in that day for Sodom than 
for that city. 
10:13"Woe to you, 
Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works had been done in Tyre 
and Sidon which were done in you, they would have repented long ago, sitting in 
sackcloth and ashes. 10:14But it will be 
more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment than for you. 10:15You, Capernaum, 
who are exalted to heaven, will be brought down to Hades. 10:16Whoever listens to 
you listens to me, and whoever rejects you rejects me. Whoever rejects me 
rejects him who sent me."
10:17The seventy returned with joy, saying, 
"Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name!" 
10:18He said to them, "I saw Satan having fallen like lightning from heaven. 10:19Behold, I give you 
authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the 
enemy. Nothing will in any way hurt you. 10:20Nevertheless, don't rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject 
to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven."
10:21In that same hour Jesus rejoiced in 
the Holy Spirit, and said, "I thank you, O Father, Lord of 
heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and 
understanding, and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for so it was 
well-pleasing in your sight."
10:22Turning to the disciples, he said, 
"All things have been delivered to me by my Father. No one 
knows who the Son is, except the Father, and who the Father is, except the Son, 
and he to whomever the Son desires to reveal him."
10:23Turning to the disciples, he said 
privately, "Blessed are the eyes which see the things that 
you see, 10:24for I tell you 
that many prophets and kings desired to see the things which you see, and didn't 
see them, and to hear the things which you hear, and didn't hear them."
10:25Behold, a certain lawyer stood up and 
tested him, saying, "Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?" 
10:26He said to him, "What is written in the law? How do you read it?"
10:27He answered, "You shall love the Lord 
your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and 
with all your mind; and your neighbor as yourself." 
10:28He said to him, "You have answered correctly. Do this, and you will live."
10:29But he, desiring to justify himself, 
asked Jesus, "Who is my neighbor?" 
10:30Jesus answered, "A 
certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, 
who both stripped him and beat him, and departed, leaving him half dead. 
10:31By chance a 
certain priest was going down that way. When he saw him, he passed by on the 
other side. 10:32In the same way a 
Levite also, when he came to the place, and saw him, passed by on the other 
side. 10:33But a certain 
Samaritan, as he traveled, came where he was. When he saw him, he was moved with 
compassion, 10:34came to him, and 
bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. He set him on his own animal, and 
brought him to an inn, and took care of him. 10:35On the next day, when he departed, he took out two denarii, and 
gave them to the host, and said to him, 'Take care of him. Whatever you spend 
beyond that, I will repay you when I return.' 10:36Now which of these three do you think seemed to be a neighbor to 
him who fell among the robbers?"
10:37He said, "He who showed mercy on him." 

Then Jesus said to him, "Go and do likewise."
10:38It happened as they went on their way, 
he entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him 
into her house. 10:39She had a sister called Mary, who also 
sat at Jesus' feet, and heard his word. 10:40But Martha was distracted with much 
serving, and she came up to him, and said, "Lord, don't you care that my sister 
left me to serve alone? Ask her therefore to help me." 
10:41Jesus answered her, "Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things, 
10:42but one thing is 
needed. Mary has chosen the good part, which will not be taken away from 
her."
11:1It happened, that when he finished 
praying in a certain place, one of his disciples said to him, "Lord, teach us to 
pray, just as John also taught his disciples." 
11:2He said to them, "When you pray, say, 
 'Our Father in heaven,      May your 
name be kept holy. 
 May your Kingdom come.      May your 
will be done on Earth, as it is in heaven. 
 11:3Give us day by day 
our daily bread. 
 11:4Forgive us our 
sins,      For we ourselves also forgive 
everyone who is indebted to us. 
 Bring us not into 
temptation,      But deliver us from the evil 
one.'"
11:5He said to them, "Which of you, if you go to a friend at midnight, and tell him, 
'Friend, lend me three loaves of bread, 11:6for a friend of mine has come to me from a journey, and I have 
nothing to set before him,' 11:7and he from within 
will answer and say, 'Don't bother me. The door is now shut, and my children are 
with me in bed. I can't get up and give it to you'? 11:8I tell you, although he will not rise and give it to him because 
he is his friend, yet because of his persistence, he will get up and give him as 
many as he needs. 
11:9"I tell you, keep 
asking, and it will be given you. Keep seeking, and you will find. Keep 
knocking, and it will be opened to you. 11:10For everyone who asks receives. He who seeks finds. To him who 
knocks it will be opened. 
11:11"Which of you 
fathers, if your son asks for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a 
fish, he won't give him a snake instead of a fish, will he? 11:12Or if he asks for 
an egg, he won't give him a scorpion, will he? 11:13If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your 
children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those 
who ask him?"
11:14He was casting out a demon, and it was 
mute. It happened, when the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke; and the 
multitudes marveled. 11:15But some of them said, "He casts out 
demons by Beelzebul, the prince of the demons." 11:16Others, testing 
him, sought from him a sign from heaven. 11:17But he, knowing 
their thoughts, said to them, "Every kingdom divided against 
itself is brought to desolation. A house divided against itself falls. 11:18If Satan also is 
divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out 
demons by Beelzebul. 11:19But if I cast out 
demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your children cast them out? Therefore will they 
be your judges. 11:20But if I by the 
finger of God cast out demons, then the Kingdom of God has come to you. 
11:21"When the strong 
man, fully armed, guards his own dwelling, his goods are safe. 11:22But when someone 
stronger attacks him and overcomes him, he takes from him his whole armor in 
which he trusted, and divides his spoils. 
11:23"He that is not 
with me is against me. He who doesn't gather with me scatters. 11:24The unclean 
spirit, when he has gone out of the man, passes through dry places, seeking 
rest, and finding none, he says, 'I will turn back to my house from which I came 
out.' 11:25When he returns, 
he finds it swept and put in order. 11:26Then he goes, and takes seven other spirits more evil than 
himself, and they enter in and dwell there. The last state of that man becomes 
worse than the first."
11:27It came to pass, as he said these 
things, a certain woman out of the multitude lifted up her voice, and said to 
him, "Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breasts which nursed you!" 
11:28But he said, "On 
the contrary, blessed are those who hear the word of God, and keep it."
11:29When the multitudes were gathering 
together to him, he began to say, "This is an evil 
generation. It seeks after a sign. No sign will be given to it but the sign of 
Jonah, the prophet. 11:30For even as Jonah 
became a sign to the Ninevites, so will also the Son of Man be to this 
generation. 11:31The Queen of the 
South will rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation, and will 
condemn them: for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of 
Solomon; and behold, one greater than Solomon is here. 11:32The men of Nineveh 
will stand up in the judgment with this generation, and will condemn it: for 
they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, one greater than Jonah is 
here. 
11:33"No man, when he 
has lit a lamp, puts it in a cellar, nor under a basket, but on a stand, that 
those who enter in may see the light. 11:34The lamp of the body is the eye. Therefore when your eye is good, 
your whole body is also full of light; but when it is evil, your body also is 
full of darkness. 11:35Therefore see 
whether the light that is in you isn't darkness. 11:36If therefore your whole body is full of light, having no part 
dark, it will be wholly full of light, as when the lamp with its bright shining 
gives you light."
11:37Now as he spoke, a certain Pharisee 
asked him to dine with him. He went in, and sat at the table. 11:38When the Pharisee saw it, he marveled 
that he had not first washed himself before dinner. 11:39The Lord said to 
him, "Now you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and 
of the platter, but your inward part is full of extortion and wickedness. 
11:40You foolish ones, 
didn't he who made the outside make the inside also? 11:41But give for gifts to the needy those things which are within, and 
behold, all things will be clean to you. 11:42But woe to you Pharisees! For you tithe mint and rue and every 
herb, but you bypass justice and the love of God. You ought to have done these, 
and not to have left the other undone. 11:43Woe to you Pharisees! For you love the best seats in the 
synagogues, and the greetings in the marketplaces. 11:44Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like 
hidden graves, and the men who walk over them don't know it."
11:45One of the lawyers answered him, 
"Teacher, in saying this you insult us also." 
11:46He said, "Woe to 
you lawyers also! For you load men with burdens that are difficult to carry, and 
you yourselves won't even lift one finger to help carry those burdens. 11:47Woe to you! For 
you build the tombs of the prophets, and your fathers killed them. 11:48So you testify and 
consent to the works of your fathers. For they killed them, and you build their 
tombs. 11:49Therefore also the 
wisdom of God said, 'I will send to them prophets and apostles; and some of them 
they will kill and persecute, 11:50that the blood of 
all the prophets, which was shed from the foundation of the world, may be 
required of this generation; 11:51from the blood of 
Abel to the blood of Zachariah, who perished between the altar and the 
sanctuary.' Yes, I tell you, it will be required of this generation. 11:52Woe to you 
lawyers! For you took away the key of knowledge. You didn't enter in yourselves, 
and those who were entering in, you hindered."
11:53As he said these things to them, the 
scribes and the Pharisees began to be terribly angry, and to draw many things 
out of him; 11:54lying in wait for him, and seeking to 
catch him in something he might say, that they might accuse him. 
12:1Meanwhile, when a multitude of many 
thousands had gathered together, so much so that they trampled on each other, he 
began to tell his disciples first of all, "Beware of the 
yeast of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. 12:2But there is nothing covered up, that will not be revealed, nor 
hidden, that will not be known. 12:3Therefore whatever 
you have said in the darkness will be heard in the light. What you have spoken 
in the ear in the inner chambers will be proclaimed on the housetops. 
12:4"I tell you, my 
friends, don't be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that have no more 
that they can do. 12:5But I will warn you 
whom you should fear. Fear him, who after he has killed, has power to cast into 
Gehenna. Yes, I tell 
you, fear him. 
12:6"Aren't five 
sparrows sold for two assaria coins? Not one 
of them is forgotten by God. 12:7But the very hairs 
of your head are all numbered. Therefore don't be afraid. You are of more value 
than many sparrows. 
12:8"I tell you, 
everyone who confesses me before men, him will the Son of Man also confess 
before the angels of God; 12:9but he who denies 
me in the presence of men will be denied in the presence of the angels of God. 
12:10Everyone who 
speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but those who blaspheme 
against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven. 12:11When they bring you before the synagogues, the rulers, and the 
authorities, don't be anxious how or what you will answer, or what you will say; 
12:12for the Holy 
Spirit will teach you in that same hour what you must say."
12:13One of the multitude said to him, 
"Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me." 
12:14But he said to him, "Man, who made me a judge or an arbitrator over you?" 12:15He said to them, "Beware! Keep yourselves from covetousness, for a man's life 
doesn't consist of the abundance of the things which he possesses."
12:16He spoke a parable to them, saying, 
"The ground of a certain rich man brought forth abundantly. 
12:17He reasoned within 
himself, saying, 'What will I do, because I don't have room to store my crops?' 
12:18He said, 'This is 
what I will do. I will pull down my barns, and build bigger ones, and there I 
will store all my grain and my goods. 12:19I will tell my soul, "Soul, you have many goods laid up for many 
years. Take your ease, eat, drink, be merry."' 
12:20"But God said to 
him, 'You foolish one, tonight your soul is required of you. The things which 
you have prepared--whose will they be?' 12:21So is he who lays up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward 
God."
12:22He said to his disciples, "Therefore I tell you, don't be anxious for your life, what you 
will eat, nor yet for your body, what you will wear. 12:23Life is more than food, and the body is more than clothing. 
12:24Consider the 
ravens: they don't sow, they don't reap, they have no warehouse or barn, and God 
feeds them. How much more valuable are you than birds! 12:25Which of you by 
being anxious can add a cubit to his height? 12:26If then you aren't able to do even the least things, why are you 
anxious about the rest? 12:27Consider the 
lilies, how they grow. They don't toil, neither do they spin; yet I tell you, 
even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. 12:28But if this is how 
God clothes the grass in the field, which today exists, and tomorrow is cast 
into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O you of little faith? 
12:29Don't seek what 
you will eat or what you will drink; neither be anxious. 12:30For the nations of 
the world seek after all of these things, but your Father knows that you need 
these things. 12:31But seek God's 
Kingdom, and all these things will be added to you. 12:32Don't be afraid, little flock, for it is your Father's good 
pleasure to give you the Kingdom. 12:33Sell that which you have, and give gifts to the needy. Make for 
yourselves purses which don't grow old, a treasure in the heavens that doesn't 
fail, where no thief approaches, neither moth destroys. 12:34For where your 
treasure is, there will your heart be also. 
12:35"Let your loins be 
girded and your lamps burning. 12:36Be like men 
watching for their lord, when he returns from the marriage feast; that, when he 
comes and knocks, they may immediately open to him. 12:37Blessed are those servants, whom the lord will find watching when 
he comes. Most assuredly I tell you, that he will dress himself, and make them 
recline, and will come and serve them. 12:38They will be blessed if he comes in the second or third watch, and 
finds them so. 12:39But know this, 
that if the master of the house had known in what hour the thief was coming, he 
would have watched, and not allowed his house to be broken into. 12:40Therefore be ready 
also, for the Son of Man is coming in an hour that you don't expect him."
12:41Peter said to him, "Lord, are you 
telling this parable to us, or to everybody?" 
12:42The Lord said, "Who then is the faithful and wise steward, whom his lord will set 
over his household, to give them their portion of food at the right times? 
12:43Blessed is that 
servant whom his lord will find doing so when he comes. 12:44Truly I tell you, 
that he will set him over all that he has. 12:45But if that servant says in his heart, 'My lord delays his 
coming,' and begins to beat the menservants and the maidservants, and to eat and 
drink, and to be drunken, 12:46then the lord of 
that servant will come in a day when he isn't expecting him, and in an hour that 
he doesn't know, and will cut him in two, and place his portion with the 
unfaithful. 12:47That servant, who 
knew his lord's will, and didn't prepare, nor do what he wanted, will be beaten 
with many stripes, 12:48but he who didn't 
know, and did things worthy of stripes, will be beaten with few stripes. To 
whoever much is given, of him will much be required; and to whom much was 
entrusted, of him more will be asked. 
12:49"I came to throw 
fire on the earth. I wish it were already kindled. 12:50But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how distressed I am 
until it is accomplished! 12:51Do you think that 
I have come to give peace in the earth? I tell you, no, but rather division. 
12:52For from now on, 
there will be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against 
three. 12:53They will be 
divided, father against son, and son against father; mother against daughter, 
and daughter against her mother; mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and 
daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law."
12:54He said to the multitudes also, "When you see a cloud rising from the west, immediately you say, 
'A shower is coming,' and so it happens. 12:55When a south wind blows, you say, 'There will be a scorching 
heat,' and it happens. 12:56You hypocrites! 
You know how to interpret the appearance of the earth and the sky, but how is it 
that you don't interpret this time? 12:57Why don't you judge for yourselves what is right? 12:58For when you are 
going with your adversary before the magistrate, try diligently on the way to be 
released from him, lest perhaps he drag you to the judge, and the judge deliver 
you to the officer, and the officer throw you into prison. 12:59I tell you, you 
will by no means get out of there, until you have paid the very last penny."
13:1Now there were some present at the same 
time who told him about the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mixed with their 
sacrifices. 13:2Jesus answered them, "Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the 
other Galileans, because they suffered such things? 13:3I tell you, no, but, unless you repent, you will all perish in the 
same way. 13:4Or those eighteen, 
on whom the tower in Siloam fell, and killed them; do you think that they were 
worse offenders than all the men who dwell in Jerusalem? 13:5I tell you, no, 
but, unless you repent, you will all perish in the same way."
13:6He spoke this parable. "A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came 
seeking fruit on it, and found none. 13:7He said to the vine dresser, 'Behold, these three years I have 
come looking for fruit on this fig tree, and found none. Cut it down. Why does 
it waste the soil?' 13:8He answered, 'Lord, 
leave it alone this year also, until I dig around it, and fertilize it. 
13:9If it bears fruit, 
fine; but if not, after that, you can cut it down.'"
13:10He was teaching in one of the 
synagogues on the Sabbath day. 13:11Behold, there was a woman who had a 
spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and she was bent over, and could in no way 
straighten herself up. 13:12When Jesus saw her, he called her, and 
said to her, "Woman, you are freed from your 
infirmity." 13:13He laid his hands on her, and 
immediately she stood up straight, and glorified God. 
13:14The ruler of the synagogue, being 
indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, said to the multitude, "There 
are six days in which men ought to work. Therefore come on those days and be 
healed, and not on the Sabbath day!" 
13:15Therefore the Lord answered him, "You hypocrites! Doesn't each one of you free his ox or his donkey 
from the stall on the Sabbath, and lead him away to water? 13:16Ought not this 
woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan had bound eighteen long years, be 
freed from this bondage on the Sabbath day?"
13:17As he said these things, all his 
adversaries were disappointed, and all the multitude rejoiced for all the 
glorious things that were done by him. 
13:18He said, "What is 
the Kingdom of God like? To what shall I compare it? 13:19It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and put in 
his own garden. It grew, and became a large tree, and the birds of the sky 
lodged in its branches." 
13:20Again he said, "To 
what shall I compare the Kingdom of God? 13:21It is like yeast, which a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, 
until it was all leavened."
13:22He went on his way through cities and 
villages, teaching, and traveling on to Jerusalem. 13:23One said to him, 
"Lord, are they few who are saved?" 
He said to them, 13:24"Strive to enter 
in by the narrow door, for many, I tell you, will seek to enter in, and will not 
be able. 13:25When once the 
master of the house has risen up, and has shut the door, and you begin to stand 
outside, and to knock at the door, saying, 'Lord, Lord, open to us!' then he 
will answer and tell you, 'I don't know you or where you come from.' 13:26Then you will 
begin to say, 'We ate and drink in your presence, and you taught in our 
streets.' 13:27He will say, 'I 
tell you, I don't know where you come from. Depart from me, all you workers of 
iniquity.' 13:28There will be 
weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you see Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and all the 
prophets, in the Kingdom of God, and yourselves being thrown outside. 13:29They will come 
from the east, west, north, and south, and will sit down in the Kingdom of God. 
13:30Behold, there are 
some who are last who will be first, and there are some who are first who will 
be last."
13:31On that same day, some Pharisees came, 
saying to him, "Get out of here, and go away, for Herod wants to kill you." 
13:32He said to them, "Go and tell that fox, 'Behold, I cast out demons and perform 
cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I complete my mission. 13:33Nevertheless I 
must go on my way today and tomorrow and the next day, for it can't be that a 
prophet perish outside of Jerusalem.' 
13:34"Jerusalem, 
Jerusalem, that kills the prophets, and stones those who are sent to her! How 
often I wanted to gather your children together, like a hen gathers her own 
brood under her wings, and you refused! 13:35Behold, your house is left to you desolate. I tell you, you will 
not see me, until you say, 'Blessed is he who comes in the name of the 
Lord!'"
14:1It happened, when he went into the 
house of one of the rulers of the Pharisees on a Sabbath to eat bread, that they 
were watching him. 14:2Behold, a certain man who had dropsy 
was in front of him. 14:3Jesus, answering, spoke to the lawyers 
and Pharisees, saying, "Is it lawful to heal on the 
Sabbath?"
14:4But they were silent. 
He took him, and healed him, and let him go. 14:5He answered them, 
"Which of you, if your son or an ox fell into a 
well, wouldn't immediately pull him out on a Sabbath day?"
14:6They couldn't answer him regarding 
these things. 
14:7He spoke a parable to those who were 
invited, when he noticed how they chose the best seats, and said to them, 14:8"When you are 
invited by anyone to a marriage feast, don't sit in the best seat, since perhaps 
someone more honorable than you might be invited by him, 14:9and he who invited 
both of you would come and tell you, 'Make room for this person.' Then you would 
begin, with shame, to take the lowest place. 14:10But when you are invited, go and sit in the lowest place, so that 
when he who invited you comes, he may tell you, 'Friend, move up higher.' Then 
you will be honored in the presence of all who sit at the table with you. 
14:11For everyone who 
exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be 
exalted."
14:12He also said to the one who had 
invited him, "When you make a dinner or a supper, don't call 
your friends, nor your brothers, nor your kinsmen, nor rich neighbors, or 
perhaps they might also return the favor, and pay you back. 14:13But when you make 
a feast, ask the poor, the maimed, the lame, or the blind; 14:14and you will be 
blessed, because they don't have the resources to repay you. For you will be 
repaid in the resurrection of the righteous."
14:15When one of those who sat at the table 
with him heard these things, he said to him, "Blessed is he who will feast in 
the Kingdom of God!" 
14:16But he said to him, "A certain man made a great supper, and he invited many people. 
14:17He sent out his 
servant at supper time to tell those who were invited, 'Come, for everything is 
ready now.' 14:18They all as one 
began to make excuses. 
"The first said to him, 'I have bought a field, and I must go and see it. 
Please have me excused.' 
14:19"Another said, 'I 
have bought five yoke of oxen, and I must go try them out. Please have me 
excused.' 
14:20"Another said, 'I 
have married a wife, and therefore I can't come.' 
14:21"That servant 
came, and told his lord these things. Then the master of the house, being angry, 
said to his servant, 'Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and 
bring in the poor, maimed, blind, and lame.' 
14:22"The servant said, 
'Lord, it is done as you commanded, and there is still room.' 
14:23"The lord said to 
the servant, 'Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, 
that my house may be filled. 14:24For I tell you 
that none of those men who were invited will taste of my supper.'"
14:25Now great multitudes were going with 
him. He turned and said to them, 14:26"If anyone comes 
to me, and doesn't hate his own father, mother, wife, children, brothers, and 
sisters, yes, and his own life also, he can't be my disciple. 14:27Whoever doesn't 
bear his own cross, and come after me, can't be my disciple. 14:28For which of you, 
desiring to build a tower, doesn't first sit down and count the cost, to see if 
he has enough to complete it? 14:29Or perhaps, when 
he has laid a foundation, and is not able to finish, everyone who sees begins to 
mock him, 14:30saying, 'This man 
began to build, and wasn't able to finish.' 14:31Or what king, as he goes to encounter another king in war, will 
not sit down first and consider whether he is able with ten thousand to meet him 
who comes against him with twenty thousand? 14:32Or else, while the other is yet a great way off, he sends an 
envoy, and asks for conditions of peace. 14:33So therefore whoever of you who doesn't renounce all that he has, 
he can't be my disciple. 14:34Salt is good, but 
if the salt becomes flat and tasteless, with what do you season it? 14:35It is fit neither 
for the soil nor for the manure pile. It is thrown out. He who has ears to hear, 
let him hear."
15:1Now all the tax collectors and sinners 
were coming close to him to hear him. 15:2The Pharisees and the scribes murmured, 
saying, "This man welcomes sinners, and eats with them." 
15:3He told them this parable. 15:4"Which of you men, 
if you had one hundred sheep, and lost one of them, wouldn't leave the 
ninety-nine in the wilderness, and go after the one that was lost, until he 
found it? 15:5When he has found 
it, he carries it on his shoulders, rejoicing. 15:6When he comes home, he calls together his friends and his 
neighbors, saying to them, 'Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was 
lost!' 15:7I tell you that 
even so there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents, than over 
ninety-nine righteous people who need no repentance. 15:8Or what woman, if she had ten drachma coins, if she 
lost one drachma coin, wouldn't light a lamp, sweep the house, and seek 
diligently until she found it? 15:9When she has found 
it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, 'Rejoice with me, for 
I have found the drachma which I had lost.' 15:10Even so, I tell you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of 
God over one sinner repenting."
15:11He said, "A 
certain man had two sons. 15:12The younger of 
them said to his father, 'Father, give me my share of your property.' He divided 
his livelihood between them. 15:13Not many days 
after, the younger son gathered all of this together and traveled into a far 
country. There he wasted his property with riotous living. 15:14When he had spent 
all of it, there arose a severe famine in that country, and he began to be in 
need. 15:15He went and joined 
himself to one of the citizens of that country, and he sent him into his fields 
to feed pigs. 15:16He wanted to fill 
his belly with the husks that the pigs ate, but no one gave him any. 15:17But when he came 
to himself he said, 'How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough to 
spare, and I'm dying with hunger! 15:18I will get up and go to my father, and will tell him, "Father, I 
have sinned against heaven, and in your sight. 15:19I am no more worthy to be called your son. Make me as one of your 
hired servants."' 
15:20"He arose, and 
came to his father. But while he was still far off, his father saw him, and was 
moved with compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him. 15:21The son said to 
him, 'Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in your sight. I am no longer 
worthy to be called your son.' 
15:22"But the father 
said to his servants, 'Bring out the best robe, and put it on him. Put a ring on 
his hand, and shoes on his feet. 15:23Bring the fattened 
calf, kill it, and let us eat, and celebrate; 15:24for this, my son, was dead, and is alive again. He was lost, and 
is found.' They began to celebrate. 
15:25"Now his elder son 
was in the field. As he came near to the house, he heard music and dancing. 
15:26He called one of 
the servants to him, and asked what was going on. 15:27He said to him, 'Your brother has come, and your father has killed 
the fattened calf, because he has received him back safe and healthy.' 15:28But he was angry, 
and would not go in. Therefore his father came out, and begged him. 15:29But he answered 
his father, 'Behold, these many years I have served you, and I never disobeyed a 
commandment of yours, but you never gave me a goat, that I might celebrate with 
my friends. 15:30But when this, 
your son, came, who has devoured your living with prostitutes, you killed the 
fattened calf for him.' 
15:31"He said to him, 
'Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours. 15:32But it was 
appropriate to celebrate and be glad, for this, your brother, was dead, and is 
alive again. He was lost, and is found.'"
16:1He also said to his disciples, "There was a certain rich man who had a manager. An accusation was 
made to him that this man was wasting his possessions. 16:2He called him, and 
said to him, 'What is this that I hear about you? Give an accounting of your 
management, for you can no longer be manager.' 
16:3"The manager said 
within himself, 'What will I do, seeing that my lord is taking away the 
management position from me? I don't have strength to dig. I am ashamed to beg. 
16:4I know what I will 
do, so that when I am removed from management, they may receive me into their 
houses.' 16:5Calling each one of 
his lord's debtors to him, he said to the first, 'How much do you owe to my 
lord?' 16:6He said, 'A hundred batos of oil.' 
He said to him, 'Take your bill, and sit down quickly and write fifty.' 
16:7Then said he to 
another, 'How much do you owe?' He said, 'A hundred cors of wheat.' 
He said to him, 'Take your bill, and write eighty.' 
16:8"His lord commended 
the dishonest manager because he had done wisely, for the children of this world 
are, in their own generation, wiser than the children of the light. 16:9I tell you, make 
for yourselves friends by means of unrighteous mammon, so that when you fail, 
they may receive you into the eternal tents. 16:10He who is faithful in a very little is faithful also in much. He 
who is dishonest in a very little is also dishonest in much. 16:11If therefore you 
have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust 
the true riches? 16:12If you have not 
been faithful in that which is another's, who will give you that which is your 
own? 16:13No servant can 
serve two masters, for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else 
he will hold to one, and despise the other. You aren't able to serve God and mammon."
16:14The Pharisees, who were lovers of 
money, also heard all these things, and they scoffed at him. 16:15He said to them, "You are those who justify yourselves in the sight of men, but God 
knows your hearts. For that which is exalted among men is an abomination in the 
sight of God. 16:16The law and the 
prophets were until John. From that time the Gospel of the Kingdom of God is 
preached, and everyone is forcing his way into it. 16:17But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away, than for one 
tiny stroke of a pen in the law to fall. 16:18Everyone who divorces his wife, and marries another, commits 
adultery. He who marries one who is divorced from a husband commits adultery. 
16:19"Now there was a 
certain rich man, and he was clothed in purple and fine linen, living in luxury 
every day. 16:20A certain beggar, 
named Lazarus, was laid at his gate, full of sores, 16:21and desiring to be fed with the crumbs that fell from the rich 
man's table. Yes, even the dogs came and licked his sores. 16:22It happened that 
the beggar died, and that he was carried away by the angels to Abraham's bosom. 
The rich man also died, and was buried. 16:23In Hades, he lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and saw Abraham 
far off, and Lazarus at his bosom. 16:24He cried and said, 'Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send 
Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue! For 
I am in anguish in this flame.' 
16:25"But Abraham said, 
'Son, remember that you, in your lifetime, received your good things, and 
Lazarus, in like manner, bad things. But now here he is comforted and you are in 
anguish. 16:26Besides all this, 
between us and you there is a great gulf fixed, that those who want to pass from 
here to you are not able, and that none may cross over from there to us.' 
16:27"He said, 'I ask 
you therefore, father, that you would send him to my father's house; 16:28for I have five 
brothers, that he may testify to them, so they won't also come into this place 
of torment.' 
16:29"But Abraham said 
to him, 'They have Moses and the prophets. Let them listen to them.' 
16:30"He said, 'No, 
father Abraham, but if one goes to them from the dead, they will repent.' 
16:31"He said to him, 
'If they don't listen to Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded 
if one rises from the dead.'"
17:1He said to the disciples, "It is impossible that no occasions of stumbling should come, but 
woe to him through whom they come! 17:2It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his 
neck, and he were thrown into the sea, rather than that he should cause one of 
these little ones to stumble. 17:3Be careful. If your 
brother sins against you, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him. 17:4If he sins against 
you seven times in the day, and seven times returns, saying, 'I repent,' you 
shall forgive him."
17:5The apostles said to the Lord, 
"Increase our faith." 
17:6The Lord said, "If 
you had faith like a grain of mustard seed, you would tell this sycamore tree, 
'Be uprooted, and be planted in the sea,' and it would obey you. 17:7But who is there 
among you, having a servant plowing or keeping sheep, that will say, when he 
comes in from the field, 'Come immediately and sit down at the table,' 17:8and will not rather 
tell him, 'Prepare my supper, clothe yourself properly, and serve me, while I 
eat and drink. Afterward you shall eat and drink'? 17:9Does he thank that servant because he did the things that were 
commanded? I think not. 17:10Even so you also, 
when you have done all the things that are commanded you, say, 'We are unworthy 
servants. We have done our duty.'"
17:11It happened as he was on his way to 
Jerusalem, that he was passing along the borders of Samaria and Galilee. 17:12As he entered into a certain village, 
ten men who were lepers met him, who stood at a distance. 17:13They lifted up 
their voices, saying, "Jesus, Master, have mercy on us!" 
17:14When he saw them, he said to them, 
"Go and show yourselves to the priests." It happened 
that as they went, they were cleansed. 17:15One of them, when he saw that he was 
healed, turned back, glorifying God with a loud voice. 17:16He fell on his 
face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks; and he was a Samaritan. 17:17Jesus answered, "Weren't the ten cleansed? But where are the nine? 17:18Were there none 
found who returned to give glory to God, except this stranger?" 17:19Then he said to him, "Get up, and go your way. Your faith has healed you."
17:20Being asked by the Pharisees when the 
Kingdom of God would come, he answered them, "The Kingdom of 
God doesn't come with observation; 17:21neither will they say, 'Look, here!' or, 'Look, there!' for 
behold, the Kingdom of God is within you."
17:22He said to the disciples, "The days will come, when you will desire to see one of the days 
of the Son of Man, and you will not see it. 17:23They will tell you, 'Look, here!' or 'Look, there!' Don't go away, 
nor follow after them, 17:24for as the 
lightning, when it flashes out of the one part under the sky, shines to the 
other part under the sky; so will the Son of Man be in his day. 17:25But first, he must 
suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. 17:26As it happened in 
the days of Noah, even so will it be also in the days of the Son of Man. 
17:27They ate, they 
drank, they married, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noah 
entered into the ark, and the flood came, and destroyed them all. 17:28Likewise, even as 
it happened in the days of Lot: they ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, 
they planted, they built; 17:29but in the day 
that Lot went out from Sodom, it rained fire and sulfur from the sky, and 
destroyed them all. 17:30It will be the 
same way in the day that the Son of Man is revealed. 17:31In that day, he who will be on the housetop, and his goods in the 
house, let him not go down to take them away. Let him who is in the field 
likewise not turn back. 17:32Remember Lot's 
wife! 17:33Whoever seeks to 
save his life loses it, but whoever loses his life preserves it. 17:34I tell you, in 
that night there will be two people in one bed. The one will be taken, and the 
other will be left. 17:35There will be two 
grinding grain together. One will be taken, and the other will be left."
17:36*
17:37They answering, asked him, "Where, 
Lord?" 
He said to them, "Where the body is, there will the 
vultures also be gathered together."
18:1He also spoke a parable to them that 
they must always pray, and not give up, 18:2saying, "There was 
a judge in a certain city who didn't fear God, and didn't respect man. 18:3A widow was in that 
city, and she often came to him, saying, 'Defend me from my adversary!' 
18:4He wouldn't for a 
while, but afterward he said to himself, 'Though I neither fear God, nor respect 
man, 18:5yet because this 
widow bothers me, I will defend her, or else she will wear me out by her 
continual coming.'"
18:6The Lord said, "Listen to what the unrighteous judge says. 18:7Won't God avenge 
his chosen ones, who are crying out to him day and night, and yet he exercises 
patience with them? 18:8I tell you that he 
will avenge them quickly. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find 
faith on the earth?"
18:9He spoke also this parable to certain 
people who were convinced of their own righteousness, and who despised all 
others. 18:10"Two men went up 
into the temple to pray; one was a Pharisee, and the other was a tax collector. 
18:11The Pharisee stood 
and prayed to himself like this: 'God, I thank you, that I am not like the rest 
of men, extortioners, unrighteous, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. 
18:12I fast twice a 
week. I give tithes of all that I get.' 18:13But the tax collector, standing far away, wouldn't even lift up 
his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, 'God, be merciful to me, a 
sinner!' 18:14I tell you, this 
man went down to his house justified rather than the other; for everyone who 
exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be 
exalted."
18:15They were also bringing their babies 
to him, that he might touch them. But when the disciples saw it, they rebuked 
them. 18:16Jesus summoned them, saying, "Allow the little children to come to me, and don't hinder them, 
for the Kingdom of God belongs to such as these. 18:17Most assuredly, I tell you, whoever doesn't receive the Kingdom of 
God like a little child, he will in no way enter into it."
18:18A certain ruler asked him, saying, 
"Good Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?" 
18:19Jesus asked him, "Why do you call me good? No one is good, except one--God. 
18:20You know the 
commandments: 'Don't commit adultery,' 'Don't murder,' 'Don't steal,' 'Don't 
give false testimony,' 'Honor your father and your mother.'"
18:21He said, "I have observed all these 
things from my youth up." 
18:22When Jesus heard these things, he said 
to him, "You still lack one thing. Sell all that you have, 
and distribute it to the poor. You will have treasure in heaven. Come, follow 
me."
18:23But when he heard these things, he 
became very sad, for he was very rich. 
18:24Jesus, seeing that he became very sad, 
said, "How hard it is for those who have riches to enter 
into the Kingdom of God! 18:25For it is easier 
for a camel to enter in through a needle's eye, than for a rich man to enter 
into the Kingdom of God."
18:26Those who heard it said, "Then who can 
be saved?" 
18:27But he said, "The 
things which are impossible with men are possible with God."
18:28Peter said, "Look, we have left 
everything, and followed you." 
18:29He said to them, "Most assuredly I tell you, there is no one who has left house, or 
wife, or brothers, or parents, or children, for the Kingdom of God's sake, 
18:30who will not 
receive many times more in this time, and in the world to come, eternal 
life."
18:31He took the twelve aside, and said to 
them, "Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and all the things that are written 
through the prophets concerning the Son of Man will be completed. 18:32For he will be delivered up to the 
Gentiles, will be mocked, treated shamefully, and spit on. 18:33They will scourge 
and kill him. On the third day, he will rise again." 
18:34They understood none of these things. 
This saying was hidden from them, and they didn't understand the things that 
were said. 18:35It happened, as he came near Jericho, 
a certain blind man sat by the road, begging. 18:36Hearing a 
multitude going by, he asked what this meant. 18:37They told him that 
Jesus of Nazareth was passing by. 18:38He cried out, "Jesus, you son of 
David, have mercy on me!" 18:39Those who led the way rebuked him, 
that he should be quiet; but he cried out all the more, "You son of David, have 
mercy on me!" 
18:40Standing still, Jesus commanded him to 
be brought to him. When he had come near, he asked him, 18:41"What do you want me to do?"
He said, "Lord, that I may see again." 
18:42Jesus said to him, "Receive your sight. Your faith has healed you."
18:43Immediately he received his sight, and 
followed him, glorifying God. All the people, when they saw it, praised God. 
19:1He entered and was passing through 
Jericho. 19:2There was a man named Zacchaeus. He was 
a chief tax collector, and he was rich. 19:3He was trying to see who Jesus was, and 
couldn't because of the crowd, because he was short. 19:4He ran on ahead, 
and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass that way. 19:5When Jesus came to the place, he looked 
up and saw him, and said to him, "Zacchaeus, hurry and come 
down, for today I must stay at your house." 19:6He hurried, came 
down, and received him joyfully. 19:7When they saw it, they all murmured, 
saying, "He has gone in to lodge with a man who is a sinner." 
19:8Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, 
"Behold, Lord, half of my goods I give to the poor. If I have wrongfully exacted 
anything of anyone, I restore four times as much." 
19:9Jesus said to him, "Today, salvation 
has come to this house, because he also is a son of Abraham. 19:10For the Son of Man came to seek and to 
save that which was lost." 
19:11As they heard these things, he went on 
and told a parable, because he was near Jerusalem, and they supposed that the 
Kingdom of God would be revealed immediately. 19:12He said therefore, 
"A certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for 
himself a kingdom, and to return. 19:13He called ten servants of his, and gave them ten mina coins, and told 
them, 'Conduct business until I come.' 19:14But his citizens hated him, and sent an envoy after him, saying, 
'We don't want this man to reign over us.' 
19:15"It happened when 
he had come back again, having received the kingdom, that he commanded these 
servants, to whom he had given the money, to be called to him, that he might 
know what they had gained by conducting business. 19:16The first came before him, saying, 'Lord, your mina has made ten 
more minas.' 
19:17"He said to him, 
'Well done, you good servant! Because you were found faithful with very little, 
you shall have authority over ten cities.' 
19:18"The second came, 
saying, 'Your mina, Lord, has made five minas.' 
19:19"So he said to 
him, 'And you are to be over five cities.' 19:20Another came, saying, 'Lord, behold, your mina, which I kept laid 
away in a handkerchief, 19:21for I feared you, 
because you are an exacting man. You take up that which you didn't lay down, and 
reap that which you didn't sow.' 
19:22"He said to him, 
'Out of your own mouth will I judge you, you wicked servant! You knew that I am 
an exacting man, taking up that which I didn't lay down, and reaping that which 
I didn't sow. 19:23Then why didn't 
you deposit my money in the bank, and at my coming, I might have earned interest 
on it?' 19:24He said to those 
who stood by, 'Take the mina away from him, and give it to him who has the ten 
minas.' 
19:25"They said to him, 
'Lord, he has ten minas!' 19:26'For I tell you 
that to everyone who has, will more be given; but from him who doesn't have, 
even that which he has will be taken away from him. 19:27But bring those enemies of mine who didn't want me to reign over 
them here, and kill them before me.'" 19:28Having said these 
things, he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem. 
19:29It happened, when he drew near to Bethsphage and Bethany, 
at the mountain that is called Olivet, he sent two of his disciples, 19:30saying, "Go your 
way into the village on the other side, in which, as you enter, you will find a 
colt tied, whereon no man ever yet sat. Untie it, and bring it. 19:31If anyone asks 
you, 'Why are you untying it?' say to him: 'The Lord needs it.'"
19:32Those who were sent went away, and 
found things just as he had told them. 19:33As they were untying the colt, the 
owners of it said to them, "Why are you untying the colt?" 19:34They said, "The 
Lord needs it." 19:35They brought it to Jesus. They threw 
their cloaks on the colt, and set Jesus on them. 19:36As he went, they 
spread their cloaks in the way. 19:37As he was now getting near, at the 
descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to 
rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works which they had 
seen, 19:38saying, "Blessed is the King who comes 
in the name of the Lord! Peace in heaven, and glory in the highest!" 
19:39Some of the Pharisees from the 
multitude said to him, "Teacher, rebuke your disciples!" 
19:40He answered them, "I tell you that if these were silent, the stones would cry 
out."
19:41When he drew near, he saw the city and 
wept over it, 19:42saying, "If you, 
even you, had known today the things which belong to your peace! But now, they 
are hidden from your eyes. 19:43For the days will 
come on you, when your enemies will throw up a barricade against you, surround 
you, hem you in on every side, 19:44and will dash you 
and your children within you to the ground. They will not leave in you one stone 
on another, because you didn't know the time of your visitation."
19:45He entered into the temple, and began 
to drive out those who bought and sold in it, 19:46saying to them, 
"It is written, 'My house is a house of prayer,' but you 
have made it a 'den of robbers'!"
19:47He was teaching daily in the temple, 
but the chief priests and the scribes and the leading men among the people 
sought to destroy him. 19:48They couldn't find what they might do, 
for all the people hung on to every word that he said. 
20:1It happened on one of those days, as he 
was teaching the people in the temple and preaching the Gospel, that the *priests 
and scribes came to him with the elders. 20:2They asked him, "Tell us: by what 
authority do you do these things? Or who is giving you this authority?" 
20:3He answered them, "I also will ask you one question. Tell me: 20:4the baptism of 
John, was it from heaven, or from men?"
20:5They reasoned with themselves, saying, 
"If we say, 'From heaven,' he will say, 'Why didn't you believe him?' 20:6But if we say, 'From men,' all the 
people will stone us, for they are persuaded that John was a prophet." 20:7They answered that they didn't know 
where it was from. 
20:8Jesus said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these 
things."
20:9He began to tell the people this 
parable. "A *man planted a vineyard, and rented it out to some farmers, and 
went into another country for a long time. 20:10At the proper season, he sent a servant to the farmers to collect 
his share of the fruit of the vineyard. But the farmers beat him, and sent him 
away empty. 20:11He sent yet 
another servant, and they also beat him, and treated him shamefully, and sent 
him away empty. 20:12He sent yet a 
third, and they also wounded him, and threw him out. 20:13The lord of the vineyard said, 'What shall I do? I will send my 
beloved son. It may be that seeing him, they will respect him.' 
20:14"But when the 
farmers saw him, they reasoned among themselves, saying, 'This is the heir. 
Come, let's kill him, that the inheritance may be ours.' 20:15They threw him out 
of the vineyard, and killed him. What therefore will the lord of the vineyard do 
to them? 20:16He will come and 
destroy these farmers, and will give the vineyard to others."
When they heard it, they said, "May it never be!" 
20:17But he looked at them, and said, "Then what is this that is written, 
 'The stone which the builders 
rejected,      The same was made the chief 
cornerstone?' 
 20:18"Everyone who 
falls on that stone will be broken to 
pieces,      But it will crush whomever it 
falls on to dust."
20:19The chief priests and the scribes 
sought to lay hands on Him that very hour, but they feared the people--for they 
knew He had spoken this parable against them. 20:20They watched him, 
and sent out spies, who pretended to be righteous, that they might trap him in 
something he said, so as to deliver him up to the power and authority of the 
governor. 20:21They asked him, "Teacher, we know that 
you say and teach what is right, and aren't partial to anyone, but truly teach 
the way of God. 20:22Is it lawful for us to pay taxes to 
Caesar, or not?" 
20:23But he perceived their craftiness, and 
said to them, "Why do you test me? 20:24Show me a 
denarius. Whose image and inscription are on it?"
They answered, "Caesar's." 
20:25He said to them, "Then give to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the 
things that are God's."
20:26They weren't able to trap him in his 
words before the people. They marveled at his answer, and were silent. 20:27Some of the Sadducees came to him, 
those who deny that there is a resurrection. 20:28They asked him, 
"Teacher, Moses wrote to us that if a man's brother dies having a wife, and he 
is childless, his brother should take the wife, and raise up children for his 
brother. 20:29There were therefore seven brothers. 
The first took a wife, and died childless. 20:30The second took 
her as wife, and he died childless. 20:31The third took her, and likewise the 
seven all left no children, and died. 20:32Afterward the woman also died. 20:33Therefore in the resurrection whose 
wife of them will she be? For the seven had her as a wife." 
20:34Jesus said to them, "The children of this age marry, and are given in marriage. 
20:35But those who are 
considered worthy to attain to that age and the resurrection from the dead, 
neither marry, nor are given in marriage. 20:36For they can't die any more, for they are like the angels, and are 
children of God, being children of the resurrection. 20:37But that the dead are raised, even Moses showed at the bush, when 
he called the Lord 'The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.' 
20:38Now he is not the 
God of the dead, but of the living, for all are alive to him."
20:39Some of the scribes answered, 
"Teacher, you speak well." 20:40They didn't dare to ask him any more 
questions. 
20:41He said to them, "Why do they say that the Christ is David's son? 20:42David himself says 
in the book of Psalms, 
 'The Lord said to my Lord,      "Sit 
at my right hand,      20:43Until I make your 
enemies the footstool of your feet."' 
20:44"David therefore 
calls him Lord, so how is he his son?"
20:45In the hearing of all the people, he 
said to his disciples, 20:46"Beware of the 
scribes, who like to walk in long robes, and love greetings in the marketplaces, 
the best seats in the synagogues, and the best places at feasts; 20:47who devour widows' 
houses, and for a pretense make long prayers: these will receive greater 
condemnation."
21:1He looked up, and saw the rich people 
who were putting their gifts into the treasury. 21:2He saw a certain 
poor widow casting in two 
small brass coins. 21:3He said, "Truly I 
tell you, this poor widow put in more than all of them, 21:4for all these put 
in gifts for God from their abundance, but she, out of her poverty, put in all 
that she had to live on."
21:5As some were talking about the temple 
and how it was decorated with beautiful stones and gifts, he said, 21:6"As for these 
things which you see, the days will come, in which there will not be left here 
one stone on another that will not be thrown down."
21:7They asked him, "Teacher, so when will 
these things be? What is the sign that these things are about to happen?" 
21:8He said, "Watch out 
that you don't get led astray, for many will come in my name, saying, 'I AM,' 
and, 'The time is at hand.' Therefore don't follow them. 21:9When you hear of 
wars and disturbances, don't be terrified, for these things must happen first, 
but the end won't come immediately."
21:10Then he said to them, "Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. 
21:11There will be 
great earthquakes, famines, and plagues in various places. There will be terrors 
and great signs from heaven. 21:12But before all 
these things, they will lay their hands on you and will persecute you, 
delivering you up to synagogues and prisons, bringing you before kings and 
governors for my name's sake. 21:13It will turn out 
as a testimony for you. 21:14Settle it 
therefore in your hearts not to meditate beforehand how to answer, 21:15for I will give 
you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries will not be able to withstand 
or to contradict. 21:16You will be handed 
over even by parents, brothers, relatives, and friends. Some of you they will 
cause to be put to death. 21:17You will be hated 
by all men for my name's sake. 21:18And not a hair of 
your head will perish. 
21:19By your endurance 
you will win your lives. 
21:20"But when you see 
Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation is at hand. 
21:21Then let those who 
are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let those who are in the midst of her 
depart. Let those who are in the country not enter therein. 21:22For these are days 
of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled. 21:23Woe to those who 
are pregnant and to those who nurse infants in those days! For there will be 
great distress in the land, and wrath to this people. 21:24They will fall by 
the edge of the sword, and will be led captive into all the nations. Jerusalem 
will be trampled down by the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles are 
fulfilled. 21:25There will be 
signs in the sun, moon, and stars; and on the earth anxiety of nations, in 
perplexity for the roaring of the sea and the waves; 21:26men fainting for fear, and for expectation of the things which are 
coming on the world: for the powers of the heavens will be shaken. 21:27Then they will see 
the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. 21:28But when these 
things begin to happen, look up, and lift up your heads, because your redemption 
is near."
21:29He told them a parable. "See the fig tree, and all the trees. 21:30When they are already budding, you see it and know by your own 
selves that the summer is already near. 21:31Even so you also, when you see these things happening, know that 
the Kingdom of God is near. 21:32Most assuredly I 
tell you, this generation will not pass away until all things are accomplished. 
21:33Heaven and earth 
will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away. 
21:34"So be careful, or 
your hearts will be loaded down with carousing, drunkenness, and cares of this 
life, and that day will come on you suddenly. 21:35For it will come like a snare on all those who dwell on the 
surface of all the earth. 21:36Therefore be 
watchful all the time, asking that you may be counted worthy to escape all these 
things that will happen, and to stand before the Son of Man."
21:37Every day Jesus was teaching in the 
temple, and every night he would go out and spend the night on the mountain that 
is called Olivet. 21:38All the people came early in the 
morning to him in the temple to hear him. 
22:1Now the feast of unleavened bread, 
which is called the Passover, drew near. 22:2The chief priests and the scribes 
sought how they might put him to death, for they feared the people. 22:3Satan entered into Judas, who was 
surnamed Iscariot, who was numbered with the twelve. 22:4He went away, and 
talked with the chief priests and captains about how he might deliver him to 
them. 22:5They were glad, and agreed to give him 
money. 22:6He consented, and sought an opportunity 
to deliver him to them in the absence of the multitude. 22:7The day of 
unleavened bread came, on which the Passover must be sacrificed. 22:8He 
sent Peter and John, saying, "Go and prepare the Passover 
for us, that we may eat."
22:9They said to him, "Where do you want us 
to prepare?" 
22:10He said to them, "Behold, when you have entered into the city, a man carrying a 
pitcher of water will meet you. Follow him into the house which he enters. 
22:11Tell the master of 
the house, 'The Teacher says to you, "Where is the guest room, where I may eat 
the Passover with my disciples?"' 22:12He will show you a large, furnished upper room. Make preparations 
there."
22:13They went, found things as he had told 
them, and they prepared the Passover. 22:14When the hour had come, he sat down 
with the twelve apostles. 22:15He said to them, "I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I 
suffer, 22:16for I tell you, I 
will no longer by any means eat of it until it is fulfilled in the Kingdom of 
God." 22:17He received a cup, and when he had 
given thanks, he said, "Take this, and share it among 
yourselves, 22:18for I tell you, I 
will not drink at all again from the fruit of the vine, until the Kingdom of God 
comes."
22:19He took bread, and when he had given 
thanks, he broke it, and gave to them, saying, "This is my 
body which is given for you. Do this in memory of me." 22:20Likewise, he took the cup after 
supper, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in my blood, 
which is poured out for you. 22:21But behold, the 
hand of him who betrays me is with me on the table. 22:22The Son of Man indeed goes, as it has been determined, but woe to 
that man through whom he is betrayed!"
22:23They began to question among 
themselves, which of them it was who would do this thing. 22:24There arose also a 
contention among them, which of them was considered to be greatest. 22:25He said to them, "The kings of the Gentiles lord it over them, and those who have 
authority over them are called 'benefactors.' 22:26But not so with you. But one who is the greater among you, let him 
become as the younger, and one who is governing, as one who serves. 22:27For who is 
greater, one who sits at the table, or one who serves? Isn't it he who sits at 
the table? But I am in the midst of you as one who serves. 22:28But you are those 
who have continued with me in my trials. 22:29I confer on you a kingdom, even as my Father conferred on me, 
22:30that you may eat 
and drink at my table in my Kingdom. You will sit on thrones, judging the twelve 
tribes of Israel."
22:31The Lord said, "Simon, Simon, behold, Satan asked to have you, that he might sift 
you as wheat, 22:32but I prayed for 
you, that your faith wouldn't fail. You, when once you have turned again, 
establish your brothers."
22:33He said to him, "Lord, I am ready to 
go with you both to prison and to death!" 
22:34He said, "I tell 
you, Peter, the rooster will by no means crow today until you deny that you know 
me three times."
22:35He said to them, "When I sent you out without purse, and wallet, and shoes, did you 
lack anything?"
They said, "Nothing." 
22:36Then he said to them, "But now, whoever has a purse, let him take it, and likewise a 
wallet. Whoever has none, let him sell his cloak, and buy a sword. 22:37For I tell you 
that this which is written must still be fulfilled in me: 'He was counted with 
the lawless.' For that which concerns me has an end."
22:38They said, "Lord, behold, here are two 
swords." 
He said to them, "That is enough."
22:39He came out, and went, as his custom 
was, to the Mount of Olives. His disciples also followed him. 22:40When he was at the place, he said to 
them, "Pray that you don't enter into temptation."
22:41He was withdrawn from them about a 
stone's throw, and he knelt down and prayed, 22:42saying, "Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me. 
Nevertheless, not my will, but yours, be done."
22:43An angel from heaven appeared to him, 
strengthening him. 22:44Being in agony he prayed more 
earnestly. His sweat became like great drops of blood falling down on the 
ground. 
22:45When he rose up from his prayer, he 
came to the disciples, and found them sleeping because of grief, 22:46and said to them, "Why do you sleep? Rise and pray that you may not enter into 
temptation."
22:47While he was still speaking, behold, a 
multitude, and he who was called Judas, one of the twelve, was leading them. He 
came near to Jesus to kiss him. 22:48But Jesus said to him, "Judas, do you betray the Son of Man with a kiss?"
22:49When those who were around him saw 
what was about to happen, they said to him, "Lord, shall we strike with the 
sword?" 22:50A certain one of them struck the 
servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear. 
22:51But Jesus answered, "Let me at least do this"--and he touched his ear, and 
healed him. 22:52Jesus said to the chief priests, 
captains of the temple, and elders, who had come against him, "Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs? 
22:53When I was with 
you in the temple daily, you didn't stretch out your hands against me. But this 
is your hour, and the power of darkness."
22:54They seized him, and led him away, and 
brought him into the high priest's house. But Peter followed from a distance. 22:55When they had kindled a fire in the 
middle of the courtyard, and had sat down together, Peter sat among them. 22:56A certain servant girl saw him as he 
sat in the light, and looking intently at him, said, "This man also was with 
him." 
22:57He denied Jesus, saying, "Woman, I 
don't know him." 
22:58After a little while someone else saw 
him, and said, "You also are one of them!" 
But Peter answered, "Man, I am not!" 
22:59After about one hour passed, another 
confidently affirmed, saying, "Truly this man also was with him, for he is a 
Galilean!" 
22:60But Peter said, "Man, I don't know 
what you are talking about!" Immediately, while he was still speaking, a rooster 
crowed. 22:61The Lord turned, and looked at Peter. 
Then Peter remembered the Lord's word, how he said to him, "Before the rooster crows you will deny me three times." 22:62He went out, and wept bitterly. 
22:63The men who held Jesus mocked him and 
beat him. 22:64Having blindfolded him, they struck 
him on the face and asked him, "Prophesy! Who is the one who struck you?" 22:65They spoke many other things against 
him, insulting him. 
22:66As soon as it was day, the assembly of 
the elders of the people was gathered together, both chief priests and scribes, 
and they led him away into their council, saying, 22:67"If you are the 
Christ, tell us." 
But he said to them, "If I tell you, you won't believe, 
22:68and if I ask, you 
will in no way answer me or let me go. 22:69From now on, the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of 
the power of God."
22:70They all said, "Are you then the Son 
of God?" 
He said to them, "You say it, because I AM."
22:71They said, "Why do we need any more 
witness? For we ourselves have heard from his own mouth!" 
23:1The whole company of them rose up and 
brought him before Pilate. 23:2They began to accuse him, saying, "We 
found this man perverting the nation, forbidding paying taxes to Caesar, and 
saying that he himself is Christ, a king." 
23:3Pilate asked him, "Are you the King of 
the Jews?" 
He answered him, "So you say."
23:4Pilate said to the chief priests and 
the multitudes, "I find no basis for a charge against this man." 
23:5But they insisted, saying, "He stirs up 
the people, teaching throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee even to this 
place." 23:6But when Pilate heard Galilee 
mentioned, he asked if the man was a Galilean. 23:7When he found out 
that he was in Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who was also in 
Jerusalem during those days. 
23:8Now when Herod saw Jesus, he was 
exceedingly glad, for he had wanted to see him for a long time, because he had 
heard many things about him. He hoped to see some miracle done by him. 23:9He 
questioned him with many words, but he gave no answers. 23:10The chief priests 
and the scribes stood, vehemently accusing him. 23:11Herod with his 
soldiers humiliated him and mocked him. Dressing him in luxurious clothing, they 
sent him back to Pilate. 23:12Herod and Pilate became friends with 
each other that very day, for before that they were enemies with each other. 
23:13Pilate called together the chief 
priests and the rulers and the people, 23:14and said to them, "You brought this 
man to me as one that perverts the people, and see, I have examined him before 
you, and found no basis for a charge against this man concerning those things of 
which you accuse him. 23:15Neither has Herod, for I sent you to 
him, and see, nothing worthy of death has been done by him. 23:16I will therefore 
chastise him and release him." 
23:17Now he had to release one prisoner to 
them at the feast. 23:18But they all cried out together, 
saying, "Away with this man! Release to us Barabbas!" -- 23:19one who was thrown 
into prison for a certain revolt in the city, and for murder. 
23:20Then Pilate spoke to them again, 
wanting to release Jesus, 23:21but they shouted, saying, "Crucify! 
Crucify him!" 
23:22He said to them the third time, "Why? 
What evil has this man done? I have found no capital crime in him. I will 
therefore chastise him and release him." 23:23But they were 
urgent with loud voices, asking that he might be crucified. Their voices and the 
voices of the chief priests prevailed. 23:24Pilate decreed that what they asked 
for should be done. 23:25He released him who had been thrown 
into prison for insurrection and murder, for whom they asked, but he delivered 
Jesus up to their will. 
23:26When they led him away, they grabbed 
one Simon of Cyrene, coming from the country, and laid on him the cross, to 
carry it after Jesus. 23:27A great multitude of the people 
followed him, including women who also mourned and lamented him. 23:28But Jesus, turning to them, said, 
"Daughters of Jerusalem, don't weep for me, but weep for 
yourselves and for your children. 23:29For behold, the days are coming in which they will say, 'Blessed 
are the barren, the wombs that never bore, and the breasts that never nursed.' 
23:30Then they will 
begin to tell the mountains, 'Fall on us!' and tell the hills, 'Cover us.' 
23:31For if they do 
these things in the green tree, what will be done in the dry?"
23:32There were also others, two criminals, 
led with him to be put to death. 23:33When they came to the place that is 
called The Skull, they crucified him there with the criminals, one on the right 
and the other on the left. 
23:34Jesus said, "Father, forgive them, for they don't know what they are 
doing."
Dividing his garments among them, they cast lots. 23:35The people stood 
watching. The rulers with them also scoffed at him, saying, "He saved others. 
Let him save himself, if this is the Christ of God, his chosen one!" 
23:36The soldiers also mocked him, coming 
to him and offering him vinegar, 23:37and saying, "If you are the King of 
the Jews, save yourself!" 
23:38An inscription was also written over 
him in letters of Greek, Latin, and Hebrew: "THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS." 
23:39One of the criminals who was hanged 
insulted him, saying, "If you are the Christ, save yourself and us!" 
23:40But the other answered, and rebuking 
him said, "Don't you even fear God, seeing you are under the same condemnation? 
23:41And we indeed justly, for we receive 
the due reward for our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong." 23:42He said to Jesus, "Lord, remember me 
when you come into your Kingdom." 
23:43Jesus said to him, "Assuredly I tell you, today you will be with me in 
Paradise."
23:44It was now about the sixth hour, 
and darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour. 23:45The sun was darkened, and the veil of 
the temple was torn in two. 23:46Jesus, crying with a loud voice, said, 
"Father, into your hands I commit my spirit!" Having 
said this, he breathed his last. 
23:47When the centurion saw what was done, 
he glorified God, saying, "Certainly this was a righteous man." 23:48All the multitudes that came together 
to see this, when they saw the things that were done, returned home beating 
their breasts. 23:49All his acquaintances, and the women 
who followed with him from Galilee, stood at a distance, watching these things. 
23:50Behold, a man named Joseph, who was a 
member of the council, a good and righteous man 23:51(he had not 
consented to their counsel and deed), from Arimathaea, a city of the Jews, who 
was also waiting for the Kingdom of God: 23:52this man went to 
Pilate, and asked for Jesus' body. 23:53He took it down, and wrapped it in a 
linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb that was cut in stone, where no one had ever 
been laid. 23:54It was the day of the Preparation, and 
the Sabbath was drawing near. 23:55The women, who had come with him out 
of Galilee, followed after, and saw the tomb, and how his body was laid. 23:56They returned, and prepared spices and 
ointments. On the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment. 
24:1But on the first day of the week, at 
early dawn, they and some others came to the tomb, bringing the spices which 
they had prepared. 24:2They found the stone rolled away from 
the tomb. 24:3They entered in, and didn't find the 
Lord Jesus' body. 24:4It happened, while they were greatly 
perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling clothing. 24:5Becoming terrified, they bowed their 
faces down to the earth. 
They said to them, "Why do you seek the living among the dead? 24:6He 
isn't here, but is risen. Remember what he told you when he was still in 
Galilee, 24:7saying that the Son of Man must be 
delivered up into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day 
rise again?" 
24:8They remembered his words, 24:9returned from the tomb, and told all 
these things to the eleven, and to all the rest. 24:10Now they were Mary 
Magdalene, Joanna, and Mary the mother of James. The other women with them told 
these things to the apostles. 24:11These words seemed to them to be 
nonsense, and they didn't believe them. 24:12But Peter got up and ran to the tomb. 
Stooping and looking in, he saw the strips of linen lying by themselves, and he 
departed to his home, wondering what had happened. 
24:13Behold, two of them were going that 
very day to a village named Emmaus, which was sixty stadia from 
Jerusalem. 24:14They talked with each other about all 
of these things which had happened. 24:15It happened, while they talked and 
questioned together, that Jesus himself came near, and went with them. 24:16But their eyes were kept from 
recognizing him. 24:17He said to them, "What are you talking about as you walk, and are sad?"
24:18One of them, named Cleopas, answered 
him, "Are you the only stranger in Jerusalem who doesn't know the things which 
have happened there in these days?" 
24:19He said to them, "What things?"
They said to him, "The things concerning Jesus, the Nazarene, who was a 
prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people; 24:20and how the chief priests and our 
rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death, and crucified him. 24:21But we were hoping that it was he who 
would redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it is now the third day since 
these things happened. 24:22Also, certain women of our company 
amazed us, having arrived early at the tomb; 24:23and when they 
didn't find his body, they came saying that they had also seen a vision of 
angels, who said that he was alive. 24:24Some of us went to the tomb, and found 
it just like the women had said, but they didn't see him." 
24:25He said to them, "Foolish men, and slow of heart to believe in all that the 
prophets have spoken! 24:26Didn't the Christ 
have to suffer these things and to enter into his glory?" 24:27Beginning from Moses and from all the 
prophets, he explained to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning 
himself. 24:28They drew near to the village, where 
they were going, and he acted like he would go further. 
24:29They urged him, saying, "Stay with us, 
for it is almost evening, and the day is almost over." 
He went in to stay with them. 24:30It happened, that when he had sat down 
at the table with them, he took the bread and gave thanks. Breaking it, he gave 
to them. 24:31Their eyes were opened, and they 
recognized him, and he vanished out of their sight. 24:32They said one to 
another, "Weren't our hearts burning within us, while he spoke to us along the 
way, and while he opened the Scriptures to us?" 24:33They rose up that 
very hour, returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and 
those who were with them, 24:34saying, "The Lord is risen indeed, and 
has appeared to Simon!" 24:35They related the things that happened 
along the way, and how he was recognized by them in the breaking of the bread. 
24:36As they said these things, Jesus 
himself stood among them, and said to them, "Peace be to 
you."
24:37But they were terrified and filled 
with fear, and supposed that they had seen a spirit. 
24:38He said to them, "Why are you troubled? Why do doubts arise in your hearts? 
24:39See my hands and 
my feet, that it is truly me. Touch me and see, for a spirit doesn't have flesh 
and bones, as you see that I have." 24:40When he had said 
this, he showed them his hands and his feet. 24:41While they still 
didn't believe for joy, and wondered, he said to them, "Do 
you have anything here to eat?"
24:42They gave him a piece of a broiled 
fish and some honeycomb. 24:43He took them, and ate in front of 
them. 24:44He said to them, "This is what I told you, while I was still with you, that all 
things which are written in the law of Moses, the prophets, and the psalms, 
concerning me must be fulfilled."
24:45Then he opened their minds, that they 
might understand the Scriptures. 24:46He said to them, "Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to 
suffer and to rise from the dead the third day, 24:47and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in 
his name to all the nations, beginning at Jerusalem. 24:48You are witnesses of these things. 24:49Behold, I send forth the promise of my Father on you. But wait in 
the city of Jerusalem until you are clothed with power from on high."
24:50He led them out as far as Bethany, and 
he lifted up his hands, and blessed them. 24:51It happened, while 
he blessed them, that he withdrew from them, and was carried up into heaven. 24:52They worshiped him, and returned to 
Jerusalem with great joy, 24:53and were continually in the temple, 
praising and blessing God. Amen. 




Notes:
[1] back to 2:26 "Christ" 
(Greek) and "Messiah" (Hebrew) both mean "Anointed One"
[2] back to 3:19 TR reads 
"brother Philip's instead of brother's"
[3] back to 3:33 TR omits 
"the son of Joram"
[4] back to 6:26 TR adds 
"to you"
[5] back to 6:26 TR adds 
"all"
[6] back to 6:38 
literally, into your bosom.
[7] back to 7:31 So reads 
TR. MT omits "But the Lord said,"
[8] back to 8:3 TR reads 
"him" instead of "them"
[9] back to 9:1 TR reads 
"his twelve disciples" instead of "the twelve"
[10] back to 9:23 TR, NU 
add "daily"
[11] back to 9:31 
Literally, "exodus"
[12] back to 10:1 
literally, "before his face"
[13] back to 10:15 Hades 
is the lower realm of the dead, or Hell.
[14] back to 12:5 or, Hell
[15] back to 12:6 An 
assarion was a small copper coin worth about an hour's wages for an agricultural 
laborer.
[16] back to 12:59 
Literally, lepton. A lepton is a very small brass Jewish coin worth half a Roman 
quadrans each, which is worth a quarter of the copper assarion. Lepta are worth 
less than 1% of an agricultural worker's daily wages.
[17] back to 13:21 
literally, three sata. 3 sata is about 39 litres or a bit more than a bushel
[18] back to 14:5 TR reads 
"donkey" instead of "son"
[19] back to 15:8 A drachma 
coin was worth about 2 days wages for an agricultural laborer.
[20] back to 16:6 100 batos 
is about 395 litres, 104 U. S. gallons, or 87 imperial gallons.
[21] back to 16:7 100 cors 
= about 3,910 litres or 600 bushels. 
[22] back to 16:13 
"Mammon" refers to riches or a false god of wealth.
[23] back to 17:36 Some 
Greek manuscripts add: "Two will be in the field, the one taken, and the other 
left."
[24] back to 19:13 10 
minas was more than 3 year's wages for an agricultural laborer.
[25] back to 19:29 TR, NU 
read "Bethpage" instead of "Bethsphage"
[26] back to 20:1 TR adds 
"chief"
[27] back to 20:9 NU (in 
brackets) and TR add "certain"
[28] back to 21:2 
literally, "two lepta." 2 lepta was about 1% of a day's wages for an 
agricultural laborer.
[29] back to 22:32 The 
word for "brothers" here may be also correctly translated "brothers and sisters" 
or "siblings."
[30] back to 23:44 Time 
was counted from sunrise, so the sixth hour was about noon.
[31] back to 23:44 3:00 PM
[32] back to 24:13 60 
stadia = about 11 kilometers or about 7 miles. 

