
Mara Bar-Serapion












A Letter of Mara, Son 
of Serapion. 

------------
Mara, son of Serapion, to Serapion, my son: peace.
When thy master and guardian wrote me a letter, and informed me that thou 
wast very diligent in study, though so young in years, I blessed God that 
thou, a little boy, and without a guide to direct thee, hadst 
begun in good earnest; and to myself also this was a comfort-that I heard of 
thee, little boy as thou art, as displaying such greatness of mind and 
conscientiousness: 
a character which, in the case of many who have begun well, has 
shown no eagerness to continue.
On this account, lo, I have written for thee this record, touching 
that which I have by careful observation discovered in the world. For the kind 
of life men lead has been carefully observed by me. I tread the path of 
learning, 
and from the study of Greek philosophy 
have I found out all these things, although they suffered shipwreck when the 
birth of life took place. 

Be diligent, then, my son, in attention to those things which are 
becoming for the free, 
so as to devote thyself to learning, and to follow after wisdom; and 
endeavour thus to become confirmed in those habits with which thou hast 
begun. Call to mind also my precepts, as a quiet person who is fond of the 
pursuit of learning. And, even though such a life should seem to thee 
very irksome, yet when thou hast made experience of it for a little while, it 
will become very pleasant to thee: for to me also it so happened. When, 
moreover, a person has left his home, and is able still to preserve his 
previous character, and properly does that which it behoves him to do, he 
is that chosen man who is called "the blessing of God," and one who does not 
find aught else to compare with his freedom. 
For, as for those persons who are called to the pursuit of learning, they are 
seeking to extricate themselves from the turmoils of time; and those who take 
hold upon wisdom, they are clinging to the hope of righteousness; and those who 
take their stand on truth, they are displaying the banner of their virtue; and 
those who cultivate philosophy, they are looking to escape from the vexations of 
the world. And do thou too, my son, thus wisely behave thyself in regard 
to these things, as a wise person who seeks to spend a pure life; and 
beware lest the gain which many hunger after enervate thee, and thy mind 
turn to covet riches, which have no stability. For, when they are acquired by 
fraud, they do not continue; nor, even when justly obtained, do they 
last; and all those things which are seen by thee in the world, as belonging to 
that which is only for a little time, are destined to depart like 
a dream: for they are but as the risings and settings of the seasons.
About the objects of that vainglory, too, of which the life of men is 
full, be not thou solicitous: seeing that from those things which give us joy 
there quickly comes to us harm. Most especially is this the case with the 
birth of beloved children. For in two respects it plainly brings us harm: in the 
case of the virtuous, our very affection for them torments us, and from 
their very excellence of character we Suffer torture; and, in the case of 
the vicious, we are worried with their correction, and afflicted with their 
misconduct.
Thou hast heard, 
moreover, concerning our companions, that, when they were leaving Samosata, they 
were distressed about it, and, as if complaining of the time in which 
their lot was cast, said thus: "We are now far removed from our home, and we 
cannot return again to our city, or behold our people, or offer to our 
gods the greeting of praise." Meet was it that that day should be called a 
day of lamentation, because one heavy grief possessed them all alike. For 
they wept as they remembered their fathers, and they thought of their 
mothers 
with sobs, and they were distressed for their brethren, and grieved for 
their betrothed whom they had left behind. And, although we had heard that 
their 
former companions were proceeding to Seleucia, we clandestinely set out, 
and proceeded on the way towards them, and united our own misery with 
theirs. Then was our grief exceedingly violent, and fitly did our weeping 
abound, by reason of our desperate plight, and our wailing gathered itself 
into a dense cloud, 
and our misery grew raster than a mountain: for not one of us had the power to 
ward off the disasters that assailed him. For affection for the living was 
intense, as well as sorrow for the dead, and our miseries were driving us on 
without any way of escape. For we saw our brethren and our children 
captives, and we remembered our deceased companions, who were laid to 
rest in a foreign 
land. Each one of us, too, was anxious for himself, lest he should have disaster 
added to disaster, or lest another calamity should overtake that which went 
before it. What enjoyment could men have that were prisoners, and who 
experienced things like these?
But as for thee, my beloved, be not distressed because in thy loneliness thou 
hast 
been driven from place to place. For to these things men are born, since they 
are destined to meet with the accidents of time. But rather let 
thy thought be this, that to wise men every place is alike, and that in 
every city the good have many fathers and mothers. Else, if thou doubt 
it, take thee a proof from what thou hast seen thyself. How many 
people who know thee not love thee as one of their own children; and 
what a host of women receive thee as they would their own beloved 
ones! Verily, as a stranger thou hast been fortunate; verily, for thy small love 
many people have conceived an ardent affection for thee.
What, again, are we to say concerning the delusion 
which has taken up its abode in the world? Both by reason of toil 
painful is the journey through it, and by its agitations are we, like a reed by 
the force of the wind, bent now in this direction, now in that. For I have been 
amazed at many who cast away their children, and I have been astonished at 
others who bring up those that are not theirs. There are persons who acquire 
riches in the world, and I have also been astonished at others who inherit that 
which is not of their own acquisition. Thus mayest thou 
understand and see that we are walking under the guidance of delusion.
Begin and tell us, O wisest of men, 
on which of his possessions a man can place reliance, or concerning what 
things he can say that they are such as abide. Wilt thou say so of 
abundance of riches? they are snatched away. Of fortresses? they are spoiled. Of 
cities? they are laid waste. Of greatness? it is brought down. Of magnificence? 
it is overthrown. Of beauty? it withers. Or of laws? they pass away. Or of 
poverty? it is despised. Or of children? they die. Or of friends? they prove 
false. Or of the praises of men? jealousy goes before them.
Let a man, therefore, rejoice in his empire, like Darius; or in his good 
fortune, like Polycrates; or in his bravery, like Achilles; or in his wife, like 
Agamemnon; or in his offspring, like Priam; or in his skill, like Archimedes; or 
in his wisdom, like Socrates; or in his learning, like Pythagoras; or in his 
ingenuity, like Palamedes;-the life of men, my son, departs from the world, but 
their praises and their virtues abide for ever.
Do thou, then, my little son, choose thee that which fadeth not away. For 
those who occupy themselves with these things are called modest, and are 
beloved, and lovers of a good name.
When, moreover, anything untoward befalls thee, do not lay the blame on man, 
nor be angry against God, nor fulminate against the time thou livest in.
If thou shalt continue in this mind, thy gift it not small which thou hast 
received from God, which has no need of riches, and is never reduced to poverty. 
For without fear shalt thou pass thy life, 
and with rejoicing. For fear and apologies for one's nature belong not to 
the wise, but to such as walk contrary to law. For no man has even been deprived 
of his wisdom, as of his property.
Follow diligently learning rather than riches. For the greater are 
one's possessions, the greater is the evil attendant upon them. 
For I have myself observed that, where a man's goods are many, so also 
are the tribulations which happen to him; and, where luxuries are 
accumulated, there also do sorrows congregate; and, where riches are abundant, 
there is stored up the bitterness of many a year. 
If, therefore, thou shalt behave with understanding, and shalt diligently 
watch over thy conduct, God will not refrain from helping thee, nor men 
from loving thee.
Let that which thou art able to acquire suffice thee; and if, moreover, thou 
art able to do without property, thou shale be called blessed, and no man 
whatsover shall be jealous of thee.
And remember also this, that nothing will disturb thy life very greatly, 
except it be the love of gain; and that no man after his death is 
called an owner of property: because it is by the desire of this that weak men 
are led captive, and they know not that a man dwells among his possessions 
only in the manner of a chance-comer, and they are haunted with fear 
because these possessions are not secured to them: for they abandoned 
that which is their own, and seek that which is not theirs.
What are we to say, when the wise are dragged by force by the hands of 
tyrants, and their wisdom is deprived of its freedom 
by slander, and they are plundered for their superior intelligence, 
without the opportunity of making a defence? They are not wholly to be 
pitied. For what benefit did the Athenians obtain by putting Socrates to 
death, seeing that they received as retribution for it famine and pestilence? Or 
the people of Samos by the burning of Pythagoras, seeing that in one hour the. 
whole 
of their country was covered with sand? Or the Jews by the murder of 
their Wise King, seeing that from that very time their kingdom was driven away 
from them? For with justice did God grant a recompense to the wisdom of 
all three of them. For the Athenians died by famine; and the people of 
Samos were covered by the sea without remedy; and the Jews, brought to 
desolation and expelled from their kingdom, are driven away into Every land. 
Nay, Socrates did "not" die, because of Plato; nor yet Pythagoras, 
because of the statue of Hera; nor yet the Wise King, because of the new laws 
which he enacted.
Moreover I, my son, have attentively observed mankind, in what a dismal state 
of ruin they are. And I have been amazed that they are not utterly 
prostrated 
by the calamities which surround them, and that even their 
wars 
are not enough for them, nor the pains they endure, nor the diseases, nor 
the death, nor the poverty; but that, like savage beasts, they must needs 
rush upon one another in their enmity, trying which of them shall 
inflict the greater mischief on his fellow. For they have broken away from the 
bounds of truth, and transgress all honest laws, because they are bent on 
fulfilling their selfish desires; for, whensoever a man is eagerly set on 
obtaining that which he desires, how is it possible that he should fitly 
do that which it behoves him to do? and they acknowledge no 
restraint, 
and but seldom stretch out their hands towards truth and goodness, but in their 
manner of life behave like the deaf 
and the blind. Moreover, the wicked rejoice, and the righteous are disquieted. 
He that has, denies that he has; and he that has not, struggles to 
acquire. The poor seek help, and the rich hide their wealth, and 
every man laughs at his fellow. Those that are drunken are stupefied, and those 
that have recovered themselves are ashamed. 
Some weep, and some sing; and some laugh, and others are a prey to care. They 
rejoice in things evil, and a man that speaks the truth they despise.
Should a man, then, be surprised when the world is seeking to wither him with 
its scorn, seeing that they and he have not one and the 
same manner of life? "These" are the things for which they care. One of them 
is looking forward to the time when in battle he shah obtain the renown 
of victory; yet the valiant perceive not by how many foolish objects of desire a 
man is led captive in the world. But would that for a little while 
self-repentance visited them! For, while victorious by their bravery, they are 
overcome by the power of covetousness. For I have made trial of men, and with 
this result: that the one thing on which they are intent, is abundance of 
riches. Therefore also it is that they have no settled purpose; but, through the 
instability of their minds, a man is of a sudden cast down from his elation 
of spirit to be swallowed up with sadness. They look not at the vast wealth 
of eternity, nor consider that every visitation of trouble is conducting 
us all alike to the same final period. For they are devoted to the 
majesty of the belly, that huge blot on the character of the 
vicious.
Moreover, as regards this letter which it has come into my mind 
to write to thee, it is not enough to read it, but the best thing is that it be 
put in practice. 
For I know for myself, that when thou shale have made experiment of this mode of 
life, it will be very pleasant to thee, and thou wilt be free from sore 
vexation; because it is only on account of children that we tolerate 
riches. 

Put, therefore, sadness away from thee, O most beloved of mankind,-a 
thing which never in anywise benefits a man; and drive care away from 
thee, which brings with it no advantage whatsoever. For we have no resource or 
skill that can avail us-nothing but a great mind able to 
cope with the disasters and to endure the tribulations which we are always 
receiving at the hands of the times. For at these things does it behove us to 
look, and not only at those which are fraught with rejoicing and good 
repute.
Devote thyself to wisdom, the fount of all things good, the treasure that 
faileth not. There shalt thou lay thy head, and be at ease. For this shall be to 
thee father and mother, and a good companion for thy life.
Enter into closest intimacy with fortitude and patience, those virtues 
which are able successfully to encounter the tribulations that befall 
feeble men. For so great is their strength, that they are adequate to sustain 
hunger, and can endure thirst, and mitigate every trouble. With toil, 
moreover, yea even with dissolution, they make right merry.
To these things give diligent attention, and thou shalt lead an untroubled 
life, and I also Shall have comfort, 
and thou shalt be called "the delight of his parents."
For in that time of yore, when our city was standing in her greatness, thou 
mayest be aware that against many persons among us abominable words were 
uttered; but for ourselves, 
we acknowledged long ago that we received love, no less than honour, to the 
fullest extent from the multitude of her people: it was the state of the times 
only that forbade our completing those: things which we had 
resolved on doing. 
And here also in the prison-house we give thanks to God that we have received 
the love of many: for we are striving to our utmost to maintain a life of 
sobriety and cheerfulness; 
and, if anyone drive us by force, he will but be bearing public testimony 
against himself, that he is estranged from all things good, and he will receive 
disgrace and shame from the foul mark of shame that is upon him. For we 
have shown our truth-that truth which in our now ruined kingdom we 
possessed not. 
But, if the Romans shall permit us to go back to our own country, as 
called upon by justice and righteousness to do, they will be acting 
like humane men, and will earn the name of good and righteous, and at the same 
time will have a peaceful country in which to dwell: for they will 
exhibit their greatness when they shall leave us free men, and we shall 
be obedient to the sovereign power which the time has allotted to us. But let 
them not like tyrants, drive us as though we were slaves. Yet, if it has 
been already determined what shall be done, we shall receive nothing more 
dreadful than the peaceful death which is in store for us.
But thou, my little son, if thou resolve diligently to acquaint thyself with 
these things, first of all put a check on appetite, and set limits to that in 
which thou art indulging. Seek the power to refrain from being angry; 
and, instead of yielding to outbursts of passion, listen to the 
promptings of kindness.
For myself, what I am henceforth solicitous about is this-that, so far 
as I have recollections of the past, I may leave behind me a book 
containing them, and with a prudent mind finish the journey which I am 
appointed to take, and depart without suffering out of the sad 
afflictions of the world. For my prayer is, that I may receive my 
dismissal; and by what kind of death concerns me not. But, if any one 
should be troubled or anxious about this, I have no counsel to give him: 
for yonder, in the dwelling-place of all the world, will he find us before 
him.
One of his friends asked Mara, son of Serapion, when in bonds at his side: 
"Nay, by thy life, Mara, tell me what cause of laughter thou hast seen, 
that thou laughest." "I am laughing," said Mara, "at Time: 
inasmuch as, although he has not borrowed any evil from me, he is paying me 
back."

