
The Gospel of Marcion, Section 6











Judas Plots with the Religious Leaders

Adv.Marc.iv.40

22: 1 	Now the feast of unleavened bread was coming near, 
	which is called the Passover. 
2  	And the chief priests and scribes were seeking 
	how they might kill him; for they feared the people. 
3  	Then Judas, who was surnamed Iscariot, 
	being of the number of the twelve, went away, 
4 	And communed with the chief priests and captains, 
	how he might deliver him up to them. 
Panarion 42
5  	And they were glad, and covenanted to give him money. 
6  	And he consented, 
	and was seeking opportunity to deliver him up to them 
	without tumult. 


The Last Supper


7 	Then the day of unleavened bread came, 
	when the passover must be sacrificed. 
8  	And he [said] unto Peter and [the rest],
	Go and make ready that we may eat the passover. 
Panarion 42
9  	And they said unto him, Where wilt thou that we make ready? 
10  	And he said unto them, 
	Behold, when ye have entered into the city, 
	a man shall meet you, bearing a pitcher of water; 
	follow him into the house whereinto he goeth. 
11  	And ye shall say unto the master of the house, 
	The Teacher saith unto thee, Where is the lodging, 
	where I may eat the passover with my disciples? 
12  	And he shall shew you a large upper room furnished: 
	there make ready. 
13  	And they went, and found as he had said unto them: 
	and they made ready the passover. 
Adv.Marc.iv.40;
Panarion 42
14  	And when the hour was come he reclined, 
	and the twelve apostles with him. 
15  	And he said unto them, 
	With desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer: 
[-v.16 ]Panarion 42

Zahn omits: 

17  	[ And he received a cup, and when he had given thanks, he said, 
	Take this, and divide it among yourselves: 
18  	For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine, 
	until the kingdom of God shall come.] 
Adv.Marc.iv.40
19  	And he took bread, and gave thanks, and brake it, 
	and gave to them, saying, 
	This is my body which is given for you: 
	this do for my remembrance. 
20  	And in like manner the cup after supper, saying, 
	This cup is the [new] covenant in my blood, 
	even that which is poured out for you. 
Adv.Marc.iv.41
21 	But, behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me 
	is with me on the table. 
22  	And the Son of man indeed goeth, as it hath been determined: 
	but woe unto that man through whom he is betrayed! 
23  	And they began to dispute with themselves, 
	which of them it was that was going to do this thing. 

24  	And there was also a contention among them, 
	which of them is accounted to be greater. 
25  	And he said unto them, 
	The kings of the nations have lordship over them; 
	and they that have authority over them are called benefactors. 
26  	But ye shall not be so: 
	but he that is the greater among you, let him be as the younger; 
	and he that leadeth as he that serveth. 
27  	For whether is greater- 
	he that reclineth at meat, or he that serveth? 
	is not he that reclineth? 
	But I am in the midst of you as he that serveth. 
28  	Ye are they which have continued with me in my temptations. 
29  	And I appoint unto you even as my Father hath appointed unto me, 
	A kingdom. 

	[ - v.30 ] 


Peter's Denial of Jesus Foretold

Adv.Marc.iv.41
31  	And the Lord said, 
	Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded you, 
	that he might sift you as wheat: 
32  	But I entreated for thee, that thy faith may not fail: 
	and once thou hast turned again, 
	establish thy brethren. 
33  	And he said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee, 
	both into prison, and to death. 
34  	And he said, 
	I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow at all to-day, 
	before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me. 

[ -vv.35;37]Panarion 42

The Mount of Olives


39 	And he came out, and went according to his custom
 	to the mountain of Olives, 
	and his disciples also followed him. 
40  	And when he was at the place, he said unto them, 
	Pray not to enter into temptation. 
Panarion 42
41  	And he was separated from them about a stone's throw, and he kneeled down, and prayed, saying
42  	Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: 
	nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done. 
43  	And there appeared unto him an angel from heaven, 
	strengthening him. 
44  	And he became in an agony and prayed more earnestly: 
	and his sweat became as it were 
	great drops of blood falling down to the ground. 
45  	And when he rose up from prayer, he came unto his disciples, 
	and found them sleeping for sorrow, 
46  	And said unto them, 
	Why sleep ye? rise and pray, 
	that ye may not enter into temptation. 


Jesus Delivered to the Religious Leaders

Adv.Marc.iv.41;
Panarion 42
47  	And while he yet spake, behold a multitude, 
	and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, 
	went before them, 
	and came near unto Jesus to kiss him. 
48 	 But Jesus said unto him, 
	Judas, with a kiss betrayest thou the Son of man? 

[ -vv.49-51]Panarion 42

52  	And Jesus said unto the chief priests, and captains of the temple, 
	and the elders, which were come against him, 
	Are ye come out, as against a robber, with swords and staves? 
53  	When I was daily with you in the temple, 
	ye stretched not forth your hands against me: 
	but this is your hour, and the power of darkness. 


Peter's Denial


54 	Then they seized him, and led him, 
	and brought him into the high priest's house. 
	But Peter was following afar off. 
55  	And when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the court, 
	and had sat down together, Peter sat in the midst of them. 
56  	And a certain maid seeing him as he sat towards the light, 
	looked steadfastly upon him, and said, 
	This man also was with him. 
57  	But he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not. 
58  	And after a little while another, seeing him, said, 
	Thou also art one of them. 
	And Peter said, Man, I am not. 
59  	And after a space of about one hour 
	another confidently affirmed, saying, 
	Of a truth this fellow also was with him: for he is a Galilaean. 
60  	And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. 
	And immediately, while he was yet speaking, the cock crew. 
61  	And the Lord turned, and looked upon Peter. 
	And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had said unto him, 
	Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. 
62  	And Peter went out, and wept bitterly. 
Adv.Marc.iv.41


Jesus Tortured and Interrogated

Panarion 42
63 	And the men that held Jesus kept mocking and smiting him. 
64  	And when they had blindfolded him, 
	they kept striking him on the face, and asking him, saying, 
	Prophesy, who is he that smote thee? 
65  	And many other things they kept saying, 
	railing against him. 
Adv.Marc.iv.41
66  	And as soon as it was day, 
	the body of elders of the people, 
	and the chief priests and the scribes, 
	was gathered together, 
	and they led him away into their council, saying, 
67  	If thou art the Christ, tell us. 
	And he said unto them, 
	If I tell you, ye will not at all believe: 
68  	And if I also ask you, 
	ye will not answer me, nor let me go. 
Adv.Marc.iv.41
69  	From henceforth shall the Son of man be seated 
	on the right hand of the power of God. 
70  	And they all said, Art thou then the Son of God? 
	And he said unto them, 
	Ye say it, because I am. 
71  	And they said, What further need have we of testimony? 
	for we ourselves have heard of his mouth. 


Jesus Before Pilate and Herod

Adv.Marc.iv.42;
Panarion 42
23: 1	And the whole company arose, 
	and brought him before Pilate. 
2  	And they began to accuse him, saying, 
	We found this fellow perverting the nation, 
	and destroying the law and the prophets, 
	and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, 
	and turning away the women and children, 
	saying that he himself is Christ a King. 
Panarion 42
3  	And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? 
	And he answered him and said, Thou sayest. 
4  	And Pilate said to the chief priests and the multitudes, 
	I find no fault in this man. 
5  	And they were urgent, saying, 
	He stirreth up the people, 
	teaching throughout all Judaea, 
	having begun from Galilee to this place. 
Adv.Marc.iv.42
6  	But when Pilate heard of Galilee, 
	he asked whether the man were a Galilaean. 
7  	And when he knew that he was from Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him up to Herod, 
	who himself also was at Jerusalem at that time. 
8  	And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad: 
	for he was of a long time desirous to see him, 
	because he had heard many things about him; 
	and was hoping to see some sign done by him. 
9  	And he questioned him in many words; 
	but he answered him nothing. 
10  	And the chief priests and the scribes stood vehemently accusing him. 
11  	And Herod with his soldiers set him at nought, 
	and mocked him, and arraying him in a gorgeous robe, 
	sent him back to Pilate. 
12  	And Pilate and Herod became friends with each other that very day: 
	for before they were at enmity between themselves. 


Jesus Sentenced to Death


13 	And Pilate called together the chief priests 
	and the rulers and the people, and said unto them, 
14  	Ye brought this man unto me, as one that perverteth the people: 
	and, behold, I  examined him before you, 
	and found no fault in this man of what ye charge against him: 
15  	No, nor yet Herod: for I sent you to him; 
	and, lo, nothing worthy of death hath been done by him. 
16  	I will therefore chastise him, and release him. 
17  	(Now he under a necessity to release unto them at every feast one). 
Adv.Marc.iv.42
18  	But they cried out all at once, saying, 
	Away with this man, and release unto us Barabbas: 
19  	(one who for a certain insurrection made in the city, and for murder, 
	had been cast into prison.) 
20  	Pilate therefore spake again to them, wishing to release Jesus. 

21  	But they cried, saying, Crucify him, crucify him. 
22  	And he said unto them the third time, 
	Why, what evil hath this man done? 
	I have found no cause of death in him: 
	I will therefore chastise him, and let him go. 
23  	But they were urgent with loud voices, 
	asking that he might be crucified. 
	And the voices of them and of the chief priests prevailed. 
24  	And Pilate gave sentence that their request should be done. 
25  	And he released unto them him that for insurrection and murder 
	had been cast into prison, whom they were sking for; 
	but Jesus he delivered up to their will. 


Jesus Crucified


26 	And as they led him away, 
	they laid hold upon one Simon, a Cyrenian, 
	that was coming out of the country, 
	and laid on him the cross, to bear it after Jesus. 
27  	And there followed him a great company of the people, 
	and of women, who also were bewailing and lamenting  him. 
28  	But Jesus turning unto them said, 
	Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, 
	but weep for yourselves, and for your children. 
29  	For, behold, the days are coming, in the which they shall say, 
	Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that bare not, 
	and the breasts that gave not suck. 
30  	Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; 
	and to the hills, Cover us. 
31  	For if they do these things in the green tree, 
	what shall be done in the dry? 
Adv.Marc.iv.42;
Panarion 42
32 	And there were also two other, malefactors, 
	led with him to be put to death. 
33 	And when they were come to the place, which is called the Skull, 
	there they crucified him, and the malefactors, 
	one on the right hand, and the other on the left. 
34[-34c] Then said Jesus, 
	Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do. 	
35  	And the people stood beholding. 
	And the rulers also with them scoffed at him, saying, 
	Others he saved; let him save himself, 
	if this is Christ, the chosen of God. 
36  	And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him, 
	and offering him vinegar, and saying, 
37  	If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. 
38  	And a superscription also was written over him 
	in letters of Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew, 
	THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS. 

39  	And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, 
	If thou be Christ, save thyself and us. 
40  	But the other answering rebuked him, saying, 
	Dost not thou fear God, because thou art in the same condemnation? 
41  	And we indeed justly; for we receive things worthy of our deeds: 
	but this man did nothing amiss. 
42  	And he said unto Jesus, 
	Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. 
43  	And Jesus said unto him, 
	Verily I say unto thee, To day thou shalt be with me. Panarion 42
Adv.Marc.iv.42
44 	And it was about the sixth hour, 
	and darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour. 
45  	And the sun was darkened, 
	and the veil of the sanctuary was rent in the midst. 
46 	And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, 
	Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit: 
	and having said this, he expired. 
Adv.Marc.iv.42;
Panarion 42

47  	Now when the centurion saw what was done, 
	he glorified God, saying, 
	Certainly this man was righteous. 
48  	And all the multitude that came together to this sight, when they beheld the things which were done, 
	returned smiting their breasts. 
49  	And all his acquaintance, 
	and the women that followed him from Galilee, 
	stood afar off, seeing these things. 
Adv.Marc.iv.42;
Panarion 42
50 	And, behold, a man named Joseph, who was a counsellor, a good man, and a righteous
51  	( he had not consented to their  counsel and deed;) 
	[a man] of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews: 
	who also himself was looking for the kingdom of God: 
52  	This man went unto Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus. 
53  	And he took it down, and wrapped it in a linen cloth, 
	and laid it in a  tomb that was hewn in stone, 
	wherein no man had ever yet lain. 
54  	And it was the day of the preparation, and the sabbath was dawning. 
55  	And the women also, which had come with him from Galilee, 
	followed after, and beheld the  tomb, and how his body was laid. 
56  	And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments. 
	And on the sabbath day they rested according to the commandment. Panarion 42


The Empty Tomb

Adv.Marc.iv.43	
24: 1  	But upon the first [day] of the week, at early dawn, 
	they came unto the tomb, 
	bringing the spices which they had prepared, 
	and some others with them. 
2  	And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb. 
3  	And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. Adv.Marc.iv.43
4  	And it came to pass, while they were perplexed about it, 
	behold two men stood by them in garments that flashed forth. 
5  	And as they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, 
	they said unto them, Why seek ye him that liveth among the dead? 
6  	He is not here, but is risen: 
	remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, saying, 
7  	The Son of man must be delivered up into the hands of sinful men, 
	and be crucified, and the third day rise again. 
Adv.Marc.iv.43;
Panarion 42

8  	And they remembered his words, 
9  	And returned from the tomb, 
	and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the rest. 
10  	Now they Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, 
	and Mary the mother of James, and other women with them, 
	which told these things unto the apostles. 
11  	And their statements seemed  in their sight as nonsense, 
	and they disbelieved them. 
Adv.Marc.iv.43
12  	 But Peter arose, and ran unto the tomb; 
	and stooping down, he seeth the linen bandages laid by themselves, 
	and departed, wondering to himself at that which was come to pass. 


The Road to Emmaus

Adv.Marc.iv.43
13 	And, behold, two of them went that very day 
	to a village called Emmaus, 
	sixty stadia distant from Jerusalem . 
14  	And they talked together of all these things 
	which had happened. 
15  	And it came to pass, that, 
	while they communed and questioned together , 
	Jesus himself drew near, and went with them. 
16  	But their eyes were holden that they should not know him. 
17  	And he said unto them, 
	What words are these that ye exchange with each other, 
	as ye walk, and are sad of countenance? 
18  	And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, 
	answering said unto him, 
	Dost thou alone  sojourn in Jerusalem, and not know the things 
	which are come to pass there in these days? 
19  	And he said unto them, What things? 

	And they said unto him, 
	The things concerning Jesus of Nazareth, 
	which was a prophet mighty in deed and word 
	before God and all the people: 
20  	And how the chief priests and our rulers 
	delivered him up to  a sentence of death, 
	and crucified him. 
21  	But we hopeded that it had been he, 
	who is going to redeem Israel: 
	yea, and beside all this, to day is the third day 
	since these things occurred. 
22  	Yea, and certain women also of our company astonished us, 
	who had been early at the tomb; 
23  	And when they found not his body, they came, saying, 
	that they had also seen a vision of angels, 
	which said that he was alive. 
24  	And some of them which were with us went to the tomb, 
	and found it so, even as the women had said: 
	but him they saw not. 
Adv.Marc.iv.43;
Panarion 42
25  	Then he said unto them, 
	O foolish men, and slow of heart to believe 
	 in all that he spake to you. 
26  	Was it not neccessary for the Christ 
	to have suffered these things, 
	and to enter into his glory? 
Adv.Marc.iv.43
[ - 27 ]
28  	And they drew nigh unto the village, 
	whither they were going: 
	and he made as though he would go further. 
29  	But they constrained him, saying, 
	Abide with us: for it is toward evening, 
	and the day has declined. 
	And he went in to abide with them. 
Panarion 42
30  	And it came to pass, as he  reclined with them, 
	he took the bread and blessed it, 
	and brake, and gave to them. 
31  	And their eyes were opened, and they recognised him; 
	and he became invisible to them. 
32  	And they said one to another, 
	Was not our heart burning within us, 
[-32c]	while he talked with us in the way? 
 
33  	And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem. 
	And they found the eleven gathered together, 
	and them that were with them, saying, 
34  	The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. 
35  	And they rehearsed the things that happened in the way, 
	and how he became known to them 
	in the breaking of the bread. 


Finale


36  	And as they  spake these things, 
	Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, 
	and saith unto them, 
	Peace be unto you. 
Adv.Marc.iv.43
37  	But they were terrified and affrighted, 
	and supposed that they had beheld a phantom. 
38  	And he said unto them, 
	Why are ye troubled? 
	and wherefore do reasonings arise in your hearts? 
39  	Behold my hands and my feet, that I  am myself: 
	for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have. Panarion 42
[-40]
41	And while they still disbelieved for joy, and wondered, 
	he said unto them, 
	Have ye here anything eatable? 
42  	And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, 
	and of an honeycomb. 
43  	And he took it, and ate before them. 

Adv.Marc.iv.43
44  	And he said unto them, 
[ -45 ]	These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, 
46	that thus it was neccessary for the Christ to suffer, and to rise again from the dead the third day: 
47  	And that repentance and remission of sins 
	should be preached in his name among all nations.

