
The Gospel of Marcion, Section 3











Adv.Marc.iv.25;Panarion 42  
25 	 And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying,  
	Teacher, doing what shall I  obtain life?Cf.18:18-30 
26  	But he said unto him, What is written in the law? how readest thou?  
27  	And he answering said,  
	Thou shalt love the Lord thy God from all thy heart, and from all thy soul,  
	and from all thy strength, and from all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself.  
28  	And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right: this do, and thou shalt live. 


The Good Samaritan

 
 29  	But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus,  
	And who is my neighbour?  
30  	And Jesus answering said,  
	A certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho,  
	and fell among thieves,  
	which stripped him, and beat him, leaving him just half dead.  
31  	And by chance there came down a certain priest in that way:  
	and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side.  
32  	And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and saw him,  
	and passed by on the other side. 
 
33  	But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came down to him:  
	and when he saw him, he had compassion on him,  
34  	And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine,  
	and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn,  
	and took care of him.  
35  	And on the morrow when he departed,  
	he took out two denarii, and gave them to the host, and said unto him,  
	Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more,  
	when I come again, I will repay thee.  
36  	Which now of these three, seems to thee to have been a neighbour  
	unto him that fell among the thieves?  
37  	And he said, He that shewed mercy on him.  
	Jesus therefore said unto him,  
	Go, and do thou likewise. 


"Martha, Martha"

	 
 38  	Now it came to pass, as they went, that he entered into a certain village:  
	and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house.  
39  	And she had a sister called Mary,  
	which also sat at Jesus' feet, and heard his word.  
40  	But Martha was distracted about much serving, and came up to him, and said,  
	Lord, dost thou not care that my sister did leave me to serve alone?  
	bid her therefore that she help me.  
41  	And Jesus answered and said unto her,  
	Martha, Martha, thou art anxious and troubled about many things:  
42  	But there is need of one: and Mary chose that good part,  
	which shall not be taken away from her. 


The Prayer for Holy Spirit

Adv.Marc.iv.26
11: 1  	And it came to pass whilst he was in a certain place 
	praying to the Father, 
	when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, 
	Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples. 
2  	And he said unto them, 
	When ye pray, say, 
	Father, let thy Holy Spirit come upon us, 
Adv.Marc.iv.26
	Hallowed be thy name. 
	Thy kingdom come. 
	Thy will be done, 
	as in heaven, so on earth. 
3  	Give us day by day our bread for the coming day. 
4  	And forgive us our sins; 
	for we also forgive every one that is indebted to us. 
	And lead us not into temptation. 
Adv.Marc.iv.26;Panarion 42	
5  	And he said unto them, 
	Which of you shall have a friend, 
	and shall go unto him at midnight, 
	and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves; 
6  	Since my friend is come unto me from a journey, 
	and I have nothing to set before him? 
7  	And he from within shall answer and say, 
	Trouble me not: the door is now shut, 
	and my children are with me in bed; 
	I cannot rise and give thee. 
8  	I say unto you, 
	even if he will not rise and give him, 
	because he is his friend, 
	yet because of his importunity he will rise 
	and give him as many as he needeth. 
Adv.Marc.iv.26;Panarion 42
9  	And I say unto you, 
	Ask, and it shall be given you; 
	seek, and ye shall find; 
	knock, and it shall be opened unto you. 
10  	For every one that asketh receiveth; 
	and he that seeketh findeth; 
	and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. 
11  	But of which of you that is a father shall his son ask a loaf
	he will give him a stone?   
	or a fish, and he instead of a fish
	will give him a serpent? 
12  	Or if he shall ask an egg, 
	will he give him a scorpion? 
13 	 If ye then, being evil, 
	know how to give good gifts unto your children: 
	how much more shall your Father from heaven 
	give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? 
Adv.Marc.iv.26;Panarion 42


A House Divided

Adv.Marc.iv.26
14 	And he was casting out a demon, and it was dumb. 
	And it came to pass, when the demon was gone out, 
	the dumb spake; 
	and the multitudes marvelled. 
15  	But some of them said, 
	He casteth out demons through Beelzebub the chief of the demons. 
16  	And others, tempting him, sought of him a sign from heaven. 
17  	But he, knowing their thoughts, said unto them, 
	Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; 
	and a house divided against a house falleth. 
18  	And if Satan also be divided against himself, 
	how shall his kingdom be established? 
	because ye say that I cast out demons in Beelzebub. 
19  	And if I in Beelzebub cast out demons, 
	in whom do your sons cast them out? 
	therefore shall they be your judges. 
20  	But if I with the finger of God cast out demons, 
	no doubt the kingdom of God is come upon you. 		
21  	When a strong man fully armed keepeth his palace, 
	his goods are in peace. 

Zahn omits:

[22  	But when the stronger than he shall come upon him, and overcome him, 
	he taketh from him all his whole armour wherein he trusted, 
	and divideth his spoils. 
23  	He that is not with me is against me: 
	and he that gathereth not with me scattereth. 
24  	When the unclean spirit is gone out from the man, 
	he goeth through waterless places, seeking rest; 
	and finding none, he saith, I will return into my house whence I came out. 
25  	And when he cometh, he findeth it swept and garnished. 
26  	Then goeth he, 
	and taketh to him seven other spirits more wicked than himself; 
	and they enter in, and dwell there: 
	and the last state of that man is worse than the first.] 


"The Womb that Bare Thee"

Adv.Marc.iv.26		
27 	And it came to pass, as he said these things, 
	a certain woman out of the multitude lifted up her voice, 
	and said unto him, 
	Blessed is the womb that bare thee, 
	and the breasts which thou didst suck. 
28  	But he said, 
	Yea rather, blessed are they that hear [my word], and keep it. 


An Evil Generation

Adv.Marc.iv.27 
29 	And when the multitudes were gathering thick together, 
	he began to say, 
	This is an evil generation: it seeketh a sign; 
	and there shall no sign be given it . Panarion 42

[ - vv.30-32]


The Lamp of the Body


33  	No man, when he hath lighted a lamp, 
	putteth it into a secret place, 
	neither under the bushel, but on the lampstand, 
	that they which come in may see the light. 
34  	The lamp of the body is the eye: 
	therefore when thine eye is single, 
	thy whole body also is full of light; 
	but when it is evil, 
	thy body also is full of darkness. 
35  	Look therefore that the light which is in thee 
	be not darkness. 
36  	If therefore thy whole body be full of light, 
	having no part dark, 
	it shall be wholly full of light, 
	as when the lamp with its gleam doth give thee light. 


"Woe!"

Adv.Marc.iv.26			
37 	And as he spake, a certain Pharisee asked him to breakfast with him: 
	and he went in, and lay down. 
38  	And when the Pharisee saw it, he marvelled that he had not first washed 
	before the breakfast. 
 39  	And the Lord said unto him, 
	Now do ye Pharisees clean the outside of the cup and the platter; 
	but your inside is full of extortion and wickedness. 
40  	Foolish ones, did not he that made the outside 
	make the inside also? 
41  	But give as alms the things in your power; 
	and, behold, all things are clean unto you. 
Adv.Marc.iv.26;Panarion 42
42  	But woe unto you, Pharisees! 
	for ye tithe mint and rue and every herb, 
	and pass over the calling and the love of God: 
	but these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone. 
43  	Woe unto you, Pharisees! 
	for ye love the first seat in the synagogues, 
	and the greetings in the markets. 

44  	Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! 
	for ye are as graves which appear not, 
	and the men that walk about over them know it not. 
Adv.Marc.iv.26
45  	Then one of the lawyers answering saith unto him, 
	Teacher, saying these things thou reproachest us also. 
46  	And he said, 
	Woe unto you also, lawyers! 
	for ye lade men with burdens grievous to be borne, 
	and ye yourselves touch not the burdens with one of your fingers. 
47  	Woe unto you! for ye build the sepulchres of the prophets, 
	but your fathers killed them. Panarion 42
48  	Truly ye are witnesses  and consent to the deeds of your fathers: 
	for they indeed killed them, but ye build their sepulchres. 
Adv.Marc.iv.26
[ - 49 -51 ]Panarion 42
52  	Woe unto you, lawyers! 
	for ye took away the key of knowledge: 
	ye entered not in yourselves, 
	and them that were entering in ye hindered. 
53  	And as he said these things unto them, 
	the scribes and the Pharisees began to press upon him vehemently, 
	and to provoke him to speak of more things: 
54  	Laying wait for him, 
	and seeking to catch something out of his mouth, 
	that they might accuse him. 


The Leaven of the Pharisees / "Fear Him"

Adv.Marc.iv.28		
12: 1 	In the mean time, when there were gathered together 
	tens of thousands of the multitudes, 
	 insomuch that they trode one upon another, 
	he began to say unto his disciples, 
	First be ye on your guard against of the leaven of the Pharisees, 
	which is hypocrisy. 
2  	For there is nothing covered up, that shall not be revealed; 
	and hidden that shall not be known. 
3  	Wherefore whatsoever ye have spoken in darkness 
	shall be heard in the light; 
	and that which ye have spoken to the ear in the chambers 
	shall be proclaimed upon the housetops. 
Adv.Marc.iv.28;Panarion 42
4  	And I say unto you my friends, 
	Be not afraid of them that kill the body, 
	and after this have not power to do anything further. 
5  	But I will show you whom ye shall fear: 
	Fear him, which after he hath killed 
	hath authority to cast into Gehenna; 
	yea, I say unto you, Fear him. 
[ - vv 6-7 ]Adv.Marc.iv.28;Panarion 42
8  	But I say unto you, 
	Whosoever shall confess in me before men, 
	in him shall the Son of man also confess before God: 
9  	But he that denieth me in the sight of men 
	shall be denied in the sight of God. 
Adv.Marc.iv.28;Panarion 42
10  	And every one, who shall speak a word against the Son of man, 
	it shall be forgiven him: 
	but unto him that blasphemeth against the Holy Spirit 
	it shall not be forgiven. 
Adv.Marc.iv.28
11  	And when they bring you up before the synagogues, 
	and unto the rulers, and authorities, 
	be not anxious how or what thing ye shall answer, or what ye shall say: 
12  	For the Holy Spirit shall teach you in the same hour 
	what ye ought to say. 


Who Appointed Me a Judge?

Adv.Marc.iv.28
13 	And one out of the multitude said unto him, 
	Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. 
14  	And he said unto him, 
	Man, who appointed me a judge or a divider over you? 
15  	And he said unto them, 
	Take heed, and guard yourselves from covetousness: 
	for not in a man's abundance consisteth his life out of his possessions.
Adv.Marc.iv.28
16  	And he spake a parable unto them, saying, 
	The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully: 
17  	And he reasoned within himself, saying, 
	What shall I do, because I have not where to collect my fruits? 
18  	And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater; 
	and there will I collect all my fruits and my goods. 
19  	And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; 
	take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. 
20  	But God said unto him, Foolish one, this night they require thy soul from thee: 
	and the things which thou hast prepared, whose shall they be? 
21  	So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God. 


Seek Ye the Kingdom of God

Adv.Marc.iv.29
22  	And he said unto his disciples, Therefore I say unto you, 
	Be not anxious for your life, what ye shall eat; 
	neither for the body, what ye shall put on. 
23  	The life is more than the food, and the body than the raiment. 
24  	Consider the ravens, that they sow not nor reap; 
	which have not storechamber nor barn; and God feedeth them: 
	how much rather do ye excel the birds! 
25  	And which of you with being anxious can add to his stature one cubit? 
26  	If ye then be not able to do even a very little thing, 
	why are ye anxious about the rest? 
27  	Consider the lilies how they grow: they toil not, nor spin;   
	yet I say unto you, not even Solomon in all his glory 
	was arrayed like one of these. 
28  	[If then God so clothe the grass, which is to day in the field, 
	and to morrow is cast into the oven;] 
	how much more will he clothe you, O ye of little faith? 
Adv.Marc.iv.29;Panarion 42
29  	And seek not ye what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, 
	neither be ye of doubtful mind. 
30  	For all these things do the nations of the world seek after: 
	but your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things. 
31  	Notwithstanding seek ye the kingdom of God; 
	and all these things shall be added unto you. 
Adv.Marc.iv.29;Panarion 42
32  	Fear not, little flock; for your Father is well pleased 
	to give you the kingdom. 
33  	Sell your possessions, and give alms; 
	make yourselves purses which grow not old, 
	an unfailing treasure in the heavens, 
	where a thief does not come near, nor a moth destroy. 
34  	For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. 


The Faithful and Wise Servant

Adv.Marc.iv.29
35  	Let your loins be girded about, and your lamps burning; 
36  	And ye like unto men that wait for their lord, 
	when he shall return from the wedding-feast; 
	that when he cometh and knocketh, 
	they may open unto him immediately. 
37  	Blessed are those servants, 
	whom the lord when he cometh shall find watching: 
	verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself, 
	and make them to recline to meat, 
	and shall pass by and serve them. Panarion 42
38  	And if he shall come in the evening watch,  
	and find them so, 
	blessed are those servants. 
Adv.Marc.iv.29
39  	And this know, that if the master of the house had known 
	what hour the thief was coming, 
	he would have watched, 
	and not have left his house to be broken through. 
40  	Be ye therefore ready also: 
	for the Son of man cometh at an hour when ye think not. 
Adv.Marc.iv.29
41 	Then Peter said unto him, 
	Lord, speakest thou this parable unto us, or even unto all? 
42  	And the Lord said, 
	Who then is that faithful and wise steward, 
	whom his lord shall set over his household, 
	to give them their portion of food in due season? 
43  	Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he cometh shall find so doing. 
44  	Of a truth I say unto you, that he will set him over all his possessions. 
45  	But if that servant shall say in his heart, My lord delayeth to come, 
	and shall begin to beat the menservants and maidservants, 
	and to eat and drink, and to be drunken; 
46  	The lord of that servant will come in a day when he expecteth not, 
	and at an hour when he knoweth not, 
	and will cut him in sunder, 
	and will appoint him his portion with the unfaithful. Panarion 42
47  	And that servant, which knew his lord's will, and prepared not, 
	neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. 
48  	But he that knew not, and did did things worthy of stripes, 
	shall be beaten with few stripes. 
	For to whomsoever much is given, of him shall much be required: 
	and to whom they have committed much, of him they will ask the more. 


Fire on the Earth

Adv.Marc.iv.29
49  	I came to cast fire on the earth; 
	and what will I, if it be already kindled? 
50  	But I have a baptism to be baptized with; 
	and how am I constrained till it be accomplished! 
51  	Think ye that I am come to give peace on earth? 
Adv.Marc.iv.29
	I tell you, Nay; but rather division: 
52  	For from henceforth there shall be five in one house divided, 
	three against two, and two against three. 
53  	They shall be divided  father against son, and son against father; 
	mother against daughter, and daughter against mother; 
	mother in law against her daughter in law, 
	and daughter in law against her mother in law. 

54 	And he said also to the multitudes, 
	When ye see the cloud rising up from the west, straightway ye say
	There cometh a shower; and it cometh to pass. 
55  	And when ye see a south wind blowing, ye say, 
	There will be scorching heat; and it cometh to pass. 
Adv.Marc.iv.29;Panarion 42
56  	Ye hypocrites, 
	ye know how to interpret the face of the earth and the heaven; 
	but how is it that ye do not interpret this time? 
57  	Yea, and why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right? 
58  	For as thou goest with thine adversary before the magistrate, 
	on the way give diligence to be delivered from him; 
	lest he hale thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer,   
	and the officer cast thee into prison. 
59  	I say unto thee, thou shalt by no means depart thence, 
	till thou hast paid the very last lepton. 

[ -13:1-9]Panarion 42

Healing on the Sabbath

Adv.Marc.iv.30;Panarion 42
13: 10 	And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath days. 
11  	And, behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, 
	and was bowed together, and could in no wise lift up herself. 
12  	And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said unto her, 
	Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity. 
13  	And he laid his hands on her: and immediately she was made straight, 
	and glorified God. 
14  	And the ruler of the synagogue answered,  being vexed, 
	because that Jesus had healed on the sabbath day, 
	and said unto the multitude, 
	There are six days in which men ought to work: 
	in them therefore come and be healed, 
	and not on the day of the sabbath. 
15  	The Lord then answered him, and said, 
	Thou hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the sabbath 
	loose his ox or his ass from the stall, and lead him away to watering? 
16  	And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, 
	whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, 
	be loosed from this bond on the day of the sabbath ? 
17  	And when he had said these things, all his adversaries were put to shame: 
	and all the multitude rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him.

