
The Gospel of Mark












The Gospel According to Saint Mark 

1:1The beginning of the gospel of Jesus 
Christ, the Son of God. 1:2Even as it is written in Isaiah the 
prophet, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, Who shall prepare thy way. 
1:3The voice of one crying in the 
wilderness, Make ye ready the way of the Lord, Make his paths straight; 1:4John 
came, who baptized in the wilderness and preached the baptism of repentance unto 
remission of sins. 1:5And there went out unto him all the 
country of Judaea, and all they of Jerusalem; And they were baptized of him in 
the river Jordan, confessing their sins. 1:6And John was clothed with camel's hair, 
and had a leathern girdle about his loins, and did eat locusts and wild 
honey. 1:7And he preached, saying, There cometh 
after me he that is mightier than I, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy 
to stoop down and unloose. 1:8I baptized you in water; But he shall 
baptize you in the Holy Spirit. 1:9And it came to pass in those days, that 
Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of John in the Jordan. 1:10And straightway coming up out of the 
water, he saw the heavens rent asunder, and the Spirit as a dove descending upon 
him: 1:11And a voice came out of the heavens, 
Thou art my beloved Son, in thee I am well pleased. 1:12And straightway the 
Spirit driveth him forth into the wilderness. 1:13And he was in the 
wilderness forty days tempted of Satan; And he was with the wild beasts; And the 
angels ministered unto him. 1:14Now after John was delivered up, Jesus 
came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of God, 1:15and saying, The 
time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent ye, and believe in 
the gospel. 1:16And passing along by the sea of 
Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew the brother of Simon casting a net in the sea; 
for they were fishers. 1:17And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after 
me, and I will make you to become fishers of men. 1:18And straightway 
they left the nets, and followed him. 1:19And going on a little further, he saw 
James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the boat 
mending the nets. 1:20And straightway he called them: and 
they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, and went 
after him. 1:21And they go into Capernaum; and 
straightway on the sabbath day he entered into the synagogue and taught. 1:22And they were astonished at his 
teaching: For he taught them as having authority, and not as the scribes. 1:23And straightway there was in their 
synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out, 1:24saying, What have 
we to do with thee, Jesus thou Nazarene? art thou come to destroy us? I know 
thee who thou art, the Holy One of God. 1:25And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy 
peace, and come out of him. 1:26And the unclean spirit, tearing him and 
crying with a loud voice, came out of him. 1:27And they were all 
amazed, insomuch that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? a 
new teaching! with authority he commandeth even the unclean spirits, and they 
obey him. 1:28And the report of him went out 
straightway everywhere into all the region of Galilee round about. 1:29And straightway, when they were come 
out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James 
and John. 1:30Now Simon's wife's mother lay sick of a 
fever; and straightway they tell him of her: 1:31and he came and 
took her by the hand, and raised her up; and the fever left her, and she 
ministered unto them. 1:32And at even, when the sun did set, they 
brought unto him all that were sick, and them that were possessed with demons. 
1:33And all the city was gathered together 
at the door. 1:34And he healed many that were sick with 
divers diseases, and cast out many demons; and he suffered not the demons to 
speak, because they knew him. 1:35And in the morning, a great while 
before day, he rose up and went out, and departed into a desert place, and there 
prayed. 1:36And Simon and they that were with him 
followed after him; 1:37and they found him, and say unto him, 
All are seeking thee. 1:38And he saith unto them, Let us go 
elsewhere into the next towns, that I may preach there also; for to this end 
came I forth. 1:39And he went into their synagogues 
throughout all Galilee, preaching and casting out demons. 1:40And there cometh to 
him a leper, beseeching him, and kneeling down to him, and saying unto him, If 
thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. 1:41And being moved with compassion, he 
stretched forth his hand, and touched him, and saith unto him, I will; be thou 
made clean. 1:42And straightway the leprosy departed 
from him, and he was made clean. 1:43And he strictly charged him, and 
straightway sent him out, 1:44and saith unto him, See thou say 
nothing to any man: but go show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy 
cleansing the things which Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. 1:45But he went out, and began to publish 
it much, and to spread abroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more 
openly enter into a city, but was without in desert places: and they came to him 
from every quarter. 

2:1And when he entered again into Capernaum 
after some days, it was noised that he was in the house. 2:2And many were 
gathered together, so that there was no longer room for them, no, not 
even about the door: and he spake the word unto them. 2:3And they come, 
bringing unto him a man sick of the palsy, borne of four. 2:4And when they could 
not come nigh unto him for the crowd, they uncovered the roof where he was: and 
when they had broken it up, they let down the bed whereon the sick of the palsy 
lay. 2:5And Jesus seeing their faith saith unto 
the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins are forgiven. 2:6But there were 
certain of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts, 2:7Why 
doth this man thus speak? he blasphemeth: who can forgive sins but one, 
even God? 2:8And straightway Jesus, perceiving in his 
spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, saith unto them, Why reason ye 
these things in your hearts? 2:9Which is easier, to say to the sick of 
the palsy, Thy sins are forgiven; or to say, Arise, and take up thy bed, and 
walk? 2:10But that ye may know that the Son of 
man hath authority on earth to forgive sins (he saith to the sick of the palsy), 
2:11I say unto thee, Arise, take up thy 
bed, and go unto thy house. 2:12And he arose, and straightway took up 
the bed, and went forth before them all; insomuch that they were all amazed, and 
glorified God, saying, We never saw it on this fashion. 2:13And he went forth 
again by the sea side; and all the multitude resorted unto him, and he taught 
them. 2:14And as he passed by, he saw Levi the 
son of Alphaeus sitting at the place of toll, and he saith unto him, 
Follow me. And he arose and followed him. 2:15And it came to 
pass, that he was sitting at meat in his house, and many publicans and sinners 
sat down with Jesus and his disciples: for there were many, and they followed 
him. 2:16And the scribes of the Pharisees, when 
they saw that he was eating with the sinners and publicans, said unto his 
disciples, How is it that he eateth and drinketh with publicans and 
sinners? 2:17And when Jesus heard it, he saith unto 
them, They that are whole have no need of a physician, but they that are sick: I 
came not to call the righteous, but sinners. 2:18And John's 
disciples and the Pharisees were fasting: and they come and say unto him, Why do 
John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but thy disciples fast 
not? 2:19And Jesus said unto them, Can the sons 
of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them? as long as they 
have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. 2:20But the days will 
come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then will they fast 
in that day. 2:21No man seweth a piece of undressed 
cloth on an old garment: else that which should fill it up taketh from it, the 
new from the old, and a worse rent is made. 2:22And no man putteth 
new wine into old wineskins; else the wine will burst the skins, and the wine 
perisheth, and the skins: but they put new wine into fresh wine-skins. 2:23And it came to pass, that he was going 
on the sabbath day through the grainfields; and his disciples began, as they 
went, to pluck the ears. 2:24And the Pharisees said unto him, 
Behold, why do they on the sabbath day that which is not lawful? 2:25And he said unto them, Did ye never 
read what David did, when he had need, and was hungry, he, and they that were 
with him? 2:26How he entered into the house of God 
when Abiathar was high priest, and ate the showbread, which it is not lawful to 
eat save for the priests, and gave also to them that were with him? 2:27And he said unto them, The sabbath was 
made for man, and not man for the sabbath: 2:28so that the Son of 
man is lord even of the sabbath. 

3:1And he entered again into the synagogue; 
and there was a man there who had his hand withered. 3:2And they watched 
him, whether he would heal him on the sabbath day; that they might accuse him. 
3:3And he saith unto the man that had his 
hand withered, Stand forth. 3:4And he saith unto them, Is it lawful on 
the sabbath day to do good, or to do harm? to save a life, or to kill? But they 
held their peace. 3:5And when he had looked round about on 
them with anger, being grieved at the hardening of their heart, he saith unto 
the man, Stretch forth thy hand. And he stretched it forth; and his hand was 
restored. 3:6And the Pharisees went out, and 
straightway with the Herodians took counsel against him, how they might destroy 
him. 3:7And Jesus with his disciples withdrew to 
the sea: and a great multitude from Galilee followed; and from Judaea, 3:8and 
from Jerusalem, and from Idumaea, and beyond the Jordan, and about Tyre and 
Sidon, a great multitude, hearing what great things he did, came unto him. 3:9And 
he spake to his disciples, that a little boat should wait on him because of the 
crowd, lest they should throng him: 3:10for he had healed many; insomuch that 
as many as had plagues pressed upon him that they might touch him. 3:11And the unclean spirits, whensoever 
they beheld him, fell down before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of 
God. 3:12And he charged them much that they 
should not make him known. 3:13And he goeth up into the mountain, and 
calleth unto him whom he himself would; and they went unto him. 3:14And he appointed twelve, that they 
might be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach, 3:15and to have authority to cast out 
demons: 3:16and Simon he surnamed Peter; 3:17and James the son of Zebedee, 
and John the brother of James; and them he surnamed Boanerges, which is, Sons of 
thunder: 3:18and Andrew, and Philip, and 
Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and 
Thaddaeus, and Simon the Cananaean, 3:19and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed 
him. And he cometh into a house. 3:20And the multitude cometh together 
again, so that they could not so much as eat bread. 3:21And when his 
friends heard it, they went out to lay hold on him: for they said, He is beside 
himself. 3:22And the scribes that came down from 
Jerusalem said, He hath Beelzebub, and, By the prince of the demons casteth he 
out the demons. 3:23And he called them unto him, and said 
unto them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? 3:24And if a kingdom be 
divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. 3:25And if a house be 
divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. 3:26And if Satan hath rise up against 
himself, and is divided, he cannot stand, but hath an end. 3:27But no one can 
enter into the house of the strong man, and spoil his goods, except he 
first bind the strong man; and then he will spoil his house. 3:28Verily I say unto you, All their sins 
shall be forgiven unto the sons of men, and their blasphemies wherewith soever 
they shall blaspheme: 3:29but whosoever shall blaspheme against 
the Holy Spirit hath never forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin: 3:30because they said, He hath an unclean 
spirit. 3:31And there come his mother and his 
brethren; and, standing without, they sent unto him, calling him. 3:32And a multitude was sitting about him; 
and they say unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren without seek for 
thee. 3:33And he answereth them, and saith, Who 
is my mother and my brethren? 3:34And looking round on them that sat 
round about him, he saith, Behold, my mother and my brethren! 3:35For whosoever shall do the will of God, 
the same is my brother, and sister, and mother. 


4:1And again he began to teach by the sea 
side. And there is gathered unto him a very great multitude, so that he entered 
into a boat, and sat in the sea; and all the multitude were by the sea on the 
land. 4:2And he taught them many things in 
parables, and said unto them in his teaching, 4:3Hearken: Behold, the 
sower went forth to sow: 4:4and it came to pass, as he sowed, some 
seed fell by the way side, and the birds came and devoured it. 4:5And 
other fell on the rocky ground, where it had not much earth; and 
straightway it sprang up, because it had no deepness of earth: 4:6and 
when the sun was risen, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered 
away. 4:7And other fell among the thorns, and the 
thorns grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit. 4:8And others fell into 
the good ground, and yielded fruit, growing up and increasing; and brought 
forth, thirtyfold, and sixtyfold, and a hundredfold. 4:9And he said, Who 
hath ears to hear, let him hear. 4:10And when he was alone, they that were 
about him with the twelve asked of him the parables. 4:11And he said unto 
them, Unto you is given the mystery of the kingdom of God: but unto them that 
are without, all things are done in parables: 4:12that seeing they 
may see, and not perceive; and hearing they may hear, and not understand; lest 
haply they should turn again, and it should be forgiven them. 4:13And he saith unto them, Know ye not 
this parable? and how shall ye know all the parables? 4:14The sower soweth 
the word. 4:15And these are they by the way side, 
where the word is sown; and when they have heard, straightway cometh Satan, and 
taketh away the word which hath been sown in them. 4:16And these in like 
manner are they that are sown upon the rocky places, who, when they have 
heard the word, straightway receive it with joy; 4:17and they have no 
root in themselves, but endure for a while; then, when tribulation or 
persecution ariseth because of the word, straightway they stumble. 4:18And others are they that are sown among 
the thorns; these are they that have heard the word, 4:19and the cares of 
the world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lusts of other things 
entering in, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful. 4:20And those are they 
that were sown upon the good ground; such as hear the word, and accept it, and 
bear fruit, thirtyfold, and sixtyfold, and a hundredfold. 4:21And he said unto 
them, Is the lamp brought to be put under the bushel, or under the bed, 
and not to be put on the stand? 4:22For there is nothing hid, save that it 
should be manifested; neither was anything made secret, but that it 
should come to light. 4:23If any man hath ears to hear, let him 
hear. 4:24And he said unto them, Take heed what 
ye hear: with what measure ye mete it shall be measured unto you; and more shall 
be given unto you. 4:25For he that hath, to him shall be 
given: and he that hath not, from him shall be taken away even that which he 
hath. 4:26And he said, So is the kingdom of God, 
as if a man should cast seed upon the earth; 4:27and should sleep 
and rise night and day, and the seed should spring up and grow, he knoweth not 
how. 4:28The earth beareth fruit of herself; 
first the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear. 4:29But when the fruit is ripe, straightway 
he putteth forth the sickle, because the harvest is come. 4:30And he said, How 
shall we liken the kingdom of God? or in what parable shall we set it forth? 4:31It 
is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when it is sown upon the earth, though 
it be less than all the seeds that are upon the earth, 4:32yet when it is 
sown, groweth up, and becometh greater than all the herbs, and putteth out great 
branches; so that the birds of the heaven can lodge under the shadow thereof. 4:33And with many such parables spake he 
the word unto them, as they were able to hear it; 4:34and without a 
parable spake he not unto them: but privately to his own disciples he expounded 
all things. 4:35And on that day, when even was come, he 
saith unto them, Let us go over unto the other side. 4:36And leaving the 
multitude, they take him with them, even as he was, in the boat. And other boats 
were with him. 4:37And there ariseth a great storm of 
wind, and the waves beat into the boat, insomuch that the boat was now filling. 
4:38And he himself was in the stern, asleep 
on the cushion: and they awake him, and say unto him, Teacher, carest thou not 
that we perish? 4:39And he awoke, and rebuked the wind, and 
said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great 
calm. 4:40And he said unto them, Why are ye 
fearful? have ye not yet faith? 4:41And they feared exceedingly, and said 
one to another, Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him? 


5:1And they came to the other side of the 
sea, into the country of the Gerasenes. 5:2And when he was come out of the boat, 
straightway there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit, 5:3who 
had his dwelling in the tombs: and no man could any more bind him, no, not with 
a chain; 5:4because that he had been often bound 
with fetters and chains, and the chains had been rent asunder by him, and the 
fetters broken in pieces: and no man had strength to tame him. 5:5And 
always, night and day, in the tombs and in the mountains, he was crying out, and 
cutting himself with stones. 5:6And when he saw Jesus from afar, he ran 
and worshipped him; 5:7and crying out with a loud voice, he 
saith, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of the Most High God? I 
adjure thee by God, torment me not. 5:8For he said unto him, Come forth, thou 
unclean spirit, out of the man. 5:9And he asked him, What is thy name? And 
he saith unto him, My name is Legion; for we are many. 5:10And he besought him 
much that he would not send them away out of the country. 5:11Now there was there 
on the mountain side a great herd of swine feeding. 5:12And they besought 
him, saying, Send us into the swine, that we may enter into them. 5:13And he gave them leave. And the unclean 
spirits came out, and entered into the swine: and the herd rushed down the steep 
into the sea, in number about two thousand; and they were drowned in the 
sea. 5:14And they that fed them fled, and told 
it in the city, and in the country. And they came to see what it was that had 
come to pass. 5:15And they come to Jesus, and behold him 
that was possessed with demons sitting, clothed and in his right mind, 
even him that had the legion: and they were afraid. 5:16And they that saw 
it declared unto them how it befell him that was possessed with demons, and 
concerning the swine. 5:17And they began to beseech him to depart 
from their borders. 5:18And as he was entering into the boat, 
he that had been possessed with demons besought him that he might be with him. 
5:19And he suffered him not, but saith unto 
him, Go to thy house unto thy friends, and tell them how great things the Lord 
hath done for thee, and how he had mercy on thee. 5:20And he went his 
way, and began to publish in Decapolis how great things Jesus had done for him: 
and all men marvelled. 5:21And when Jesus had crossed over again 
in the boat unto the other side, a great multitude was gathered unto him; and he 
was by the sea. 5:22And there cometh one of the rulers of 
the synagogue, Jairus by name; and seeing him, he falleth at his feet, 5:23and beseecheth him much, saying, My 
little daughter is at the point of death: I pray thee, that thou come and 
lay thy hands on her, that she may be made whole, and live. 5:24And he went with 
him; and a great multitude followed him, and they thronged him. 5:25And a woman, who had an issue of blood 
twelve years, 5:26and had suffered many things of many 
physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was nothing bettered, but rather 
grew worse, 5:27having heard the things concerning 
Jesus, came in the crowd behind, and touched his garment. 5:28For she said, If I 
touch but his garments, I shall be made whole. 5:29And straightway the 
fountain of her blood was dried up; and she felt in her body that she was healed 
of her plague. 5:30And straightway Jesus, perceiving in 
himself that the power proceeding from him had gone forth, turned him 
about in the crowd, and said, Who touched my garments? 5:31And his disciples 
said unto him, Thou seest the multitude thronging thee, and sayest thou, Who 
touched me? 5:32And he looked round about to see her 
that had done this thing. 5:33But the woman fearing and trembling, 
knowing what had been done to her, came and fell down before him, and told him 
all the truth. 5:34And he said unto her, Daughter, thy 
faith hath made thee whole; go in peace, and be whole of thy plague. 5:35While he yet spake, they come from the 
ruler of the synagogue's house saying, Thy daughter is dead: why 
troublest thou the Teacher any further? 5:36But Jesus, not heeding the word spoken, 
saith unto the ruler of the synagogue, Fear not, only believe. 5:37And he suffered no man to follow with 
him, save Peter, and James, and John the brother of James. 5:38And they come to 
the house of the ruler of the synagogue; and he beholdeth a tumult, and 
many weeping and wailing greatly. 5:39And when he was entered in, he saith 
unto them, Why make ye a tumult, and weep? the child is not dead, but sleepeth. 
5:40And they laughed him to scorn. But he, 
having put them all forth, taketh the father of the child and her mother and 
them that were with him, and goeth in where the child was. 5:41And taking the 
child by the hand, he saith unto her, Talitha cumi; which is, being interpreted, 
Damsel, I say unto thee, Arise. 5:42And straightway the damsel rose up, and 
walked; for she was twelve years old. And they were amazed straightway with a 
great amazement. 5:43And he charged them much that no man 
should know this: and he commanded that something should be given her to 
eat. 

6:1And he went out from thence; and he 
cometh into his own country; and his disciples follow him. 6:2And when the sabbath 
was come, he began to teach in the synagogue: and many hearing him were 
astonished, saying, Whence hath this man these things? and, What is the wisdom 
that is given unto this man, and what mean such mighty works wrought by 
his hands? 6:3Is not this the carpenter, the son of 
Mary, and brother of James, and Joses, and Judas, and Simon? and are not his 
sisters here with us? And they were offended in him. 6:4And Jesus said unto 
them, A prophet is not without honor, save in his own country, and among his own 
kin, and in his own house. 6:5And he could there do no mighty work, 
save that he laid his hands upon a few sick folk, and healed them. 6:6And 
he marvelled because of their unbelief. And he went round about the villages 
teaching. 6:7And he calleth unto him the twelve, and 
began to send them forth by two and two; and he gave them authority over the 
unclean spirits; 6:8and he charged them that they should 
take nothing for their journey, save a staff only; no bread, no wallet, 
now money in their purse; 6:9but to go shod with sandals: and, 
said he, put not on two coats. 6:10And he said unto them, Wheresoever ye 
enter into a house, there abide till ye depart thence. 6:11And whatsoever 
place shall not receive you, and they hear you not, as ye go forth thence, shake 
off the dust that is under your feet for a testimony unto them. 6:12And they went out, and preached that 
men should repent. 6:13And they cast out many demons, and 
anointed with oil many that were sick, and healed them. 6:14And king Herod 
heard thereof; for his name had become known: and he said, John the 
Baptizer is risen from the dead, and therefore do these powers work in him. 6:15But others said, It is Elijah. And 
others said, It is a prophet, even as one of the prophets. 6:16But Herod, when he heard 
thereof, said, John, whom I beheaded, he is risen. 6:17For Herod himself 
had sent forth and laid hold upon John, and bound him in prison for the sake of 
Herodias, his brother Philip's wife; for he had married her. 6:18For John said unto 
Herod, It is not lawful for thee to have thy brother's wife. 6:19And Herodias set 
herself against him, and desired to kill him; and she could not; 6:20for Herod feared John, knowing that he 
was a righteous and holy man, and kept him safe. And when he heard him, he was 
much perplexed; and he heard him gladly. 6:21And when a convenient day was come, 
that Herod on his birthday made a supper to his lords, and the high captains, 
and the chief men of Galilee; 6:22and when the daughter of Herodias 
herself came in and danced, she pleased Herod and them that sat at meat with 
him; and the king said unto the damsel, Ask of me whatsoever thou wilt, and I 
will give it thee. 6:23And he sware unto her, Whatsoever thou 
shalt ask of me, I will give it thee, unto the half of my kingdom. 6:24And she went out, and said unto her 
mother, What shall I ask? And she said, The head of John the Baptizer. 6:25And she came in straightway with haste 
unto the king, and asked, saying, I will that thou forthwith give me on a 
platter the head of John the Baptist. 6:26And the king was exceeding sorry; but 
for the sake of his oaths, and of them that sat at meat, he would not reject 
her. 6:27And straightway the king sent forth a 
soldier of his guard, and commanded to bring his head: and he went and beheaded 
him in the prison, 6:28and brought his head on a platter, and 
gave it to the damsel; and the damsel gave it to her mother. 6:29And when his 
disciples heard thereof, they came and took up his corpse, and laid it in 
a tomb. 6:30And the apostles gather themselves 
together unto Jesus; and they told him all things, whatsoever they had done, and 
whatsoever they had taught. 6:31And he saith unto them, Come ye 
yourselves apart into a desert place, and rest a while. For there were many 
coming and going, and they had no leisure so much as to eat. 6:32And they went away 
in the boat to a desert place apart. 6:33And the people saw them going, 
and many knew them, and they ran together there on foot from all the 
cities, and outwent them. 6:34And he came forth and saw a great 
multitude, and he had compassion on them, because they were as sheep not having 
a shepherd: and he began to teach them many things. 6:35And when the day 
was now far spent, his disciples came unto him, and said, The place is desert, 
and the day is now far spent; 6:36send them away, that they may go into 
the country and villages round about, and buy themselves somewhat to eat. 6:37But he answered and said unto them, 
Give ye them to eat. And they say unto him, Shall we go and buy two hundred 
shillings' worth of bread, and give them to eat? 6:38And he saith unto 
them, How many loaves have ye? go and see. And when they knew, they say, 
Five, and two fishes. 6:39And he commanded them that all should 
sit down by companies upon the green grass. 6:40And they sat down 
in ranks, by hundreds, and by fifties. 6:41And he took the five loaves and the two 
fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed, and brake the loaves; and he gave 
to the disciples to set before them; and the two fishes divided he among them 
all. 6:42And they all ate, and were filled. 6:43And they took up broken pieces, twelve 
basketfuls, and also of the fishes. 6:44And they that ate the loaves were five 
thousand men. 6:45And straightway he constrained his 
disciples to enter into the boat, and to go before him unto the other 
side to Bethsaida, while he himself sendeth the multitude away. 6:46And after he had taken leave of them, 
he departed into the mountain to pray. 6:47And when even was come, the boat was in 
the midst of the sea, and he alone on the land. 6:48And seeing them 
distressed in rowing, for the wind was contrary unto them, about the fourth 
watch of the night he cometh unto them, walking on the sea; and he would have 
passed by them: 6:49but they, when they saw him walking on 
the sea, supposed that it was a ghost, and cried out; 6:50for they all saw 
him, and were troubled. But he straightway spake with them, and saith unto them, 
Be of good cheer: it is I; be not afraid. 6:51And he went up unto 
them into the boat; and the wind ceased: and they were sore amazed in 
themselves; 6:52for they understood not concerning the 
loaves, but their heart was hardened. 6:53And when they had crossed over, they 
came to the land unto Gennesaret, and moored to the shore. 6:54And when they were 
come out of the boat, straightway the people knew him, 6:55and ran round about that whole region, 
and began to carry about on their beds those that were sick, where they heard he 
was. 6:56And wheresoever he entered, into 
villages, or into cities, or into the country, they laid the sick in the 
marketplaces, and besought him that they might touch if it were but the border 
of his garment: and as many as touched him were made whole. 

7:1And there are gathered together unto him 
the Pharisees, and certain of the scribes, who had come from Jerusalem, 7:2and 
had seen that some of his disciples ate their bread with defiled, that is, 
unwashen, hands. 7:3(For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, 
except they wash their hands diligently, eat not, holding the tradition of the 
elders; 7:4and when they come from the 
market-place, except they bathe themselves, they eat not; and many other things 
there are, which they have received to hold, washings of cups, and pots, and 
brasen vessels.) 7:5And the Pharisees and the scribes ask 
him, Why walk not thy disciples according to the tradition of the elders, but 
eat their bread with defiled hands? 7:6And he said unto them, Well did Isaiah 
prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, 
 This people honoreth me with their lips, 
 But their heart is far from me. 
 7:7But in vain do they worship me, 
 Teaching as their doctrines the precepts of men. 
7:8Ye leave the commandment of God, and 
hold fast the tradition of men. 7:9And he said unto them, Full well do ye 
reject the commandment of God, that ye may keep your tradition. 7:10For Moses said, Honor thy father and 
thy mother; and, He that speaketh evil of father or mother, let him die the 
death: 7:11but ye say, If a man shall say to his 
father or his mother, That wherewith thou mightest have been profited by me is 
Corban, that is to say, Given to God; 7:12ye no longer suffer 
him to do aught for his father or his mother; 7:13making void the 
word of God by your tradition, which ye have delivered: and many such like 
things ye do. 7:14And he called to him the multitude 
again, and said unto them, Hear me all of you, and understand: 7:15there is nothing from without the man, 
that going into him can defile him; but the things which proceed out of the man 
are those that defile the man. 7:16If any man hath ears to hear, let 
him hear. 7:17And when he was entered into the house 
from the multitude, his disciples asked of him the parable. 7:18And he saith unto 
them, Are ye so without understanding also? Perceive ye not, that whatsoever 
from without goeth into the man, it cannot defile him; 7:19because it goeth not into his heart, 
but into his belly, and goeth out into the draught? This he said, making 
all meats clean. 7:20And he said, That which proceedeth out 
of the man, that defileth the man. 7:21For from within, out of the heart of 
men, evil thoughts proceed, fornications, thefts, murders, adulteries, 7:22covetings, wickednesses, deceit, 
lasciviousness, an evil eye, railing, pride, foolishness: 7:23all these evil 
things proceed from within, and defile the man. 7:24And from thence he 
arose, and went away into the borders of Tyre and Sidon. And he entered into a 
house, and would have no man know it; and he could not be hid. 7:25But straightway a woman, whose little 
daughter had an unclean spirit, having heard of him, came and fell down at his 
feet. 7:26Now the woman was a Greek, a 
Syrophoenician by race. And she besought him that he would cast forth the demon 
out of her daughter. 7:27And he said unto her, Let the children 
first be filled: for it is not meet to take the children's bread and cast it to 
the dogs. 7:28But she answered and saith unto him, 
Yea, Lord; even the dogs under the table eat of the children's crumbs. 7:29And he said unto her, For this saying 
go thy way; the demon is gone out of thy daughter. 7:30And she went away 
unto her house, and found the child laid upon the bed, and the demon gone out. 
7:31And again he went out from the borders 
of Tyre, and came through Sidon unto the sea of Galilee, through the midst of 
the borders of Decapolis. 7:32And they bring unto him one that was 
deaf, and had an impediment in his speech; and they beseech him to lay his hand 
upon him. 7:33And he took him aside from the 
multitude privately, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spat, and touched 
his tongue; 7:34and looking up to heaven, he sighed, 
and saith unto him, Ephphatha, that is, Be opened. 7:35And his ears were 
opened, and the bond of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain. 7:36And he charged them that they should 
tell no man: but the more he charged them, so much the more a great deal they 
published it. 7:37And they were beyond measure 
astonished, saying, He hath done all things well; he maketh even the deaf to 
hear, and the dumb to speak. 

8:1In those days, when there was again a 
great multitude, and they had nothing to eat, he called unto him his disciples, 
and saith unto them, 8:2I have compassion on the multitude, 
because they continue with me now three days, and have nothing to eat: 8:3and 
if I send them away fasting to their home, they will faint on the way; and some 
of them are come from far. 8:4And his disciples answered him, Whence 
shall one be able to fill these men with bread here in a desert place? 8:5And 
he asked them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven. 8:6And he commandeth 
the multitude to sit down on the ground: and he took the seven loaves, and 
having given thanks, he brake, and gave to his disciples, to set before them; 
and they set them before the multitude. 8:7And they had a few small fishes: and 
having blessed them, he commanded to set these also before them. 8:8And 
they ate, and were filled: and they took up, of broken pieces that remained 
over, seven baskets. 8:9And they were about four thousand: and 
he sent them away. 8:10And straightway he entered into the 
boat with his disciples, and came into the parts of Dalmanutha. 8:11And the Pharisees came forth, and began 
to question with him, seeking of him a sign from heaven, trying him. 8:12And he sighed deeply in his spirit, and 
saith, Why doth this generation seek a sign? verily I say unto you, There shall 
no sign be given unto this generation. 8:13And he left them, and again entering 
into the boat departed to the other side. 8:14And they forgot to 
take bread; and they had not in the boat with them more than one loaf. 8:15And he charged them, saying, Take heed, 
beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. 8:16And they reasoned one with another, 
saying, We have no bread. 8:17And Jesus perceiving it saith unto 
them, Why reason ye, because ye have no bread? do ye not yet perceive, neither 
understand? have ye your heart hardened? 8:18Having eyes, see ye not? and having 
ears, hear ye not? and do ye not remember? 8:19When I brake the 
five loaves among the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces took 
ye up? They say unto him, Twelve. 8:20And when the seven among the four 
thousand, how many basketfuls of broken pieces took ye up? And they say unto 
him, Seven. 8:21And he said unto them, Do ye not yet 
understand? 8:22And they come unto Bethsaida. And they 
bring to him a blind man, and beseech him to touch him. 8:23And he took hold of 
the blind man by the hand, and brought him out of the village; and when he had 
spit on his eyes, and laid his hands upon him, he asked him, Seest thou aught? 
8:24And he looked up, and said, I see men; 
for I behold them as trees, walking. 8:25Then again he laid 
his hands upon his eyes; and he looked stedfastly, and was restored, and saw all 
things clearly. 8:26And he sent him away to his home, 
saying, Do not even enter into the village. 8:27And Jesus went 
forth, and his disciples, into the villages of Caesarea Philippi: and on the way 
he asked his disciples, saying unto them, Who do men say that I am? 8:28And they told him, saying, John the 
Baptist; and others, Elijah; but others, One of the prophets. 8:29And he asked them, But who say ye that 
I am? Peter answereth and saith unto him, Thou art the Christ. 8:30And he charged them that they should 
tell no man of him. 8:31And he began to teach them, that the 
Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, and the chief 
priests, and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. 8:32And he spake the saying openly. And 
Peter took him, and began to rebuke him. 8:33But he turning about, and seeing his 
disciples, rebuked Peter, and saith, Get thee behind me, Satan; for thou mindest 
not the things of God, but the things of men. 8:34And he called unto 
him the multitude with his disciples, and said unto them, If any man would come 
after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. 8:35For whosoever would save his life shall 
lose it; and whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's shall 
save it. 8:36For what doth it profit a man, to gain 
the whole world, and forfeit his life? 8:37For what should a man give in exchange 
for his life? 8:38For whosoever shall be ashamed of me 
and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of man also 
shall be ashamed of him, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with the holy 
angels. 

9:1And he said unto them, Verily I say unto 
you, There are some here of them that stand by, who shall in no wise 
taste of death, till they see the kingdom of God come with power. 9:2And 
after six days Jesus taketh with him Peter, and James, and John, and bringeth 
them up into a high mountain apart by themselves: and he was transfigured before 
them; 9:3and his garments became glistering, 
exceeding white, so as no fuller on earth can whiten them. 9:4And there appeared 
unto them Elijah with Moses: and they were talking with Jesus. 9:5And 
Peter answereth and saith to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here: and let 
us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah. 
9:6For he knew not what to answer; for they 
became sore afraid. 9:7And there came a cloud overshadowing 
them: and there came a voice out of the cloud, This is my beloved Son: hear ye 
him. 9:8And suddenly looking round about, they 
saw no one any more, save Jesus only with themselves. 9:9And as they were 
coming down from the mountain, he charged them that they should tell no man what 
things they had seen, save when the Son of man should have risen again from the 
dead. 9:10And they kept the saying, questioning 
among themselves what the rising again from the dead should mean. 9:11And they asked him, saying, How is 
it that the scribes say that Elijah must first come? 9:12And he said unto 
them, Elijah indeed cometh first, and restoreth all things: and how is it 
written of the Son of man, that he should suffer many things and be set at 
nought? 9:13But I say unto you, that Elijah is 
come, and they have also done unto him whatsoever they would, even as it is 
written of him. 9:14And when they came to the disciples, 
they saw a great multitude about them, and scribes questioning with them. 9:15And straightway all the multitude, when 
they saw him, were greatly amazed, and running to him saluted him. 9:16And he asked them, What question ye 
with them? 9:17And one of the multitude answered him, 
Teacher, I brought unto thee my son, who hath a dumb spirit; 9:18and wheresoever it 
taketh him, it dasheth him down: and he foameth, and grindeth his teeth, and 
pineth away: and I spake to thy disciples that they should cast it out; and they 
were not able. 9:19And he answereth them and saith, O 
faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I bear with 
you? bring him unto me. 9:20And they brought him unto him: and when 
he saw him, straightway the spirit tare him grievously; and he fell on the 
ground, and wallowed foaming. 9:21And he asked his father, How long time 
is it since this hath come unto him? And he said, From a child. 9:22And oft-times it hath cast him both 
into the fire and into the waters, to destroy him: but if thou canst do 
anything, have compassion on us, and help us. 9:23And Jesus said unto 
him, If thou canst! All things are possible to him that believeth. 9:24Straightway the father of the child 
cried out, and said, I believe; help thou mine unbelief. 9:25And when Jesus saw 
that a multitude came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying 
unto him, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I command thee, come out of him, and enter 
no more into him. 9:26And having cried out, and torn him 
much, he came out: and the boy became as one dead; insomuch that the more 
part said, He is dead. 9:27But Jesus took him by the hand, and 
raised him up; and he arose. 9:28And when he was come into the house, 
his disciples asked him privately, How is it that we could not cast it 
out? 9:29And he said unto them, This kind can 
come out by nothing, save by prayer. 9:30And they went forth from thence, and 
passed through Galilee; and he would not that any man should know it. 9:31For he taught his disciples, and said 
unto them, The Son of man is delivered up into the hands of men, and they shall 
kill him; and when he is killed, after three days he shall rise again. 9:32But they understood not the saying, and 
were afraid to ask him. 9:33And they came to Capernaum: and when he 
was in the house he asked them, What were ye reasoning on the way? 9:34But they held their peace: for they had 
disputed one with another on the way, who was the greatest. 9:35And he sat down, and called the twelve; 
and he saith unto them, If any man would be first, he shall be last of all, and 
servant of all. 9:36And he took a little child, and set him 
in the midst of them: and taking him in his arms, he said unto them, 9:37Whosoever shall receive one of such 
little children in my name, receiveth me: and whosoever receiveth me, receiveth 
not me, but him that sent me. 9:38John said unto him, Teacher, we saw one 
casting out demons in thy name; and we forbade him, because he followed not us. 
9:39But Jesus said, Forbid him not: for 
there is no man who shall do a mighty work in my name, and be able quickly to 
speak evil of me. 9:40For he that is not against us is for 
us. 9:41For whosoever shall give you a cup of 
water to drink, because ye are Christ's, verily I say unto you, he shall in no 
wise lose his reward. 9:42And whosoever shall cause one of these 
little ones that believe on me to stumble, it were better for him if a great 
millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea. 9:43And if thy hand cause thee to stumble, 
cut it off: it is good for thee to enter into life maimed, rather than having 
thy two hands to go into hell, into the unquenchable fire. 9:44where their worm 
dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. 9:45And if thy foot 
cause thee to stumble, cut it off: it is good for thee to enter into life halt, 
rather than having thy two feet to be cast into hell. 9:46where their worm 
dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. 9:47And if thine eye 
cause thee to stumble, cast it out: it is good for thee to enter into the 
kingdom of God with one eye, rather than having two eyes to be cast into hell; 
9:48where their worm dieth not, and the 
fire is not quenched. 9:49For every one shall be salted with 
fire. 9:50Salt is good: but if the salt have lost 
its saltness, wherewith will ye season it? Have salt in yourselves, and be at 
peace one with another. 

10:1And he arose from thence and cometh 
into the borders of Judaea and beyond the Jordan: and multitudes come together 
unto him again; and, as he was wont, he taught them again. 10:2And there came unto 
him Pharisees, and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his 
wife? trying him. 10:3And he answered and said unto them, 
What did Moses command you? 10:4And they said, Moses suffered to write 
a bill of divorcement, and to put her away. 10:5But Jesus said unto 
them, For your hardness of heart he wrote you this commandment. 10:6But from the beginning of the creation, 
Male and female made he them. 10:7For this cause shall a man leave his 
father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife; 10:8and the two shall 
become one flesh: so that they are no more two, but one flesh. 10:9What therefore God hath joined 
together, let not man put asunder. 10:10And in the house the disciples asked 
him again of this matter. 10:11And he saith unto them, Whosoever 
shall put away his wife, and marry another, committeth adultery against her: 10:12and if she herself shall put away her 
husband, and marry another, she committeth adultery. 10:13And they were 
bringing unto him little children, that he should touch them: and the disciples 
rebuked them. 10:14But when Jesus saw it, he was moved 
with indignation, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto 
me; forbid them not: for to such belongeth the kingdom of God. 10:15Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall 
not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall in no wise enter 
therein. 10:16And he took them in his arms, and 
blessed them, laying his hands upon them. 10:17And as he was 
going forth into the way, there ran one to him, and kneeled to him, and asked 
him, Good Teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? 10:18And Jesus said unto him, Why callest 
thou me good? none is good save one, even God. 10:19Thou knowest the 
commandments, Do not kill, Do not commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear 
false witness, Do not defraud, Honor thy father and mother. 10:20And he said unto 
him, Teacher, all these things have I observed from my youth. 10:21And Jesus looking upon him loved him, 
and said unto him, One thing thou lackest: go, sell whatsoever thou hast, and 
give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me. 
10:22But his countenance fell at the 
saying, and he went away sorrowful: for he was one that had great possessions. 
10:23And Jesus looked round about, and 
saith unto his disciples, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the 
kingdom of God! 10:24And the disciples were amazed at his 
words. But Jesus answereth again, and saith unto them, Children, how hard is it 
for them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God! 10:25It is easier for a camel to go through 
a needle's eye, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. 10:26And they were astonished exceedingly, 
saying unto him, Then who can be saved? 10:27Jesus looking upon them saith, With 
men it is impossible, but not with God: for all things are possible with God. 10:28Peter began to say unto him, Lo, we 
have left all, and have followed thee. 10:29Jesus said, Verily I say unto you, 
There is no man that hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or mother, or 
father, or children, or lands, for my sake, and for the gospel's sake, 10:30but he shall receive a hundredfold now 
in this time, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and 
lands, with persecutions; and in the world to come eternal life. 10:31But many that are first shall 
be last; and the last first. 10:32And they were on the way, going up to 
Jerusalem; and Jesus was going before them: and they were amazed; and they that 
followed were afraid. And he took again the twelve, and began to tell them the 
things that were to happen unto him, 10:33saying, Behold, we go up to 
Jerusalem; and the Son of man shall be delivered unto the chief priests and the 
scribes; and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him unto the 
Gentiles: 10:34and they shall mock him, and shall 
spit upon him, and shall scourge him, and shall kill him; and after three days 
he shall rise again. 10:35And there come near unto him James and 
John, the sons of Zebedee, saying unto him, Teacher, we would that thou 
shouldest do for us whatsoever we shall ask of thee. 10:36And he said unto 
them, What would ye that I should do for you? 10:37And they said unto 
him, Grant unto us that we may sit, one on thy right hand, and one on thy 
left hand, in thy glory. 10:38But Jesus said unto them, Ye know not 
what ye ask. Are ye able to drink the cup that I drink? or to be baptized with 
the baptism that I am baptized with? 10:39And they said unto him, We are able. 
And Jesus said unto them, The cup that I drink ye shall drink; and with the 
baptism that I am baptized withal shall ye be baptized: 10:40but to sit on my 
right hand or on my left hand is not mine to give; but it is for 
them for whom it hath been prepared. 10:41And when the ten 
heard it, they began to be moved with indignation concerning James and John. 10:42And Jesus called them to him, and 
saith unto them, Ye know that they who are accounted to rule over the Gentiles 
lord it over them; and their great ones exercise authority over them. 10:43But it is not so among you: but 
whosoever would become great among you, shall be your minister; 10:44and whosoever would be first among 
you, shall be servant of all. 10:45For the Son of man also came not to be 
ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. 10:46And they come to Jericho: and as he 
went out from Jericho, with his disciples and a great multitude, the son of 
Timaeus, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, was sitting by the way side. 10:47And when he heard that it was Jesus 
the Nazarene, he began to cry out, and say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy 
on me. 10:48And many rebuked him, that he should 
hold his peace: but he cried out the more a great deal, Thou son of David, have 
mercy on me. 10:49And Jesus stood still, and said, Call 
ye him. And they call the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good cheer: rise, he 
calleth thee. 10:50And he, casting away his garment, 
sprang up, and came to Jesus. 10:51And Jesus answered him, and said, What 
wilt thou that I should do unto thee? And the blind man said unto him, Rabboni, 
that I may receive my sight. 10:52And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way; 
thy faith hath made thee whole. And straightway he received his sight, and 
followed him in the way. 

11:1And when they draw nigh unto Jerusalem, 
unto Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount of Olives, he sendeth two of his 
disciples, 11:2and saith unto them, Go your way into 
the village that is over against you: and straightway as ye enter into it, ye 
shall find a colt tied, whereon no man ever yet sat; loose him, and bring him. 
11:3And if any one say unto you, Why do ye 
this? say ye, The Lord hath need of him; and straightway he will send him back 
hither. 11:4And they went away, and found a colt 
tied at the door without in the open street; and they loose him. 11:5And certain of them that stood there 
said unto them, What do ye, loosing the colt? 11:6And they said unto 
them even as Jesus had said: and they let them go. 11:7And they bring the 
colt unto Jesus, and cast on him their garments; and he sat upon him. 11:8And many spread their garments upon the 
way; and others branches, which they had cut from the fields. 11:9And they that went before, and they 
that followed, cried, Hosanna; Blessed is he that cometh in the name of 
the Lord: 11:10Blessed is the kingdom that 
cometh, the kingdom of our father David: Hosanna in the highest. 11:11And he entered into Jerusalem, into 
the temple; and when he had looked round about upon all things, it being now 
eventide, he went out unto Bethany with the twelve. 11:12And on the morrow, 
when they were come out from Bethany, he hungered. 11:13And seeing a fig 
tree afar off having leaves, he came, if haply he might find anything thereon: 
and when he came to it, he found nothing but leaves; for it was not the season 
of figs. 11:14And he answered and said unto it, No 
man eat fruit from thee henceforward for ever. And his disciples heard it. 11:15And they come to Jerusalem: and he 
entered into the temple, and began to cast out them that sold and them that 
bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the money-changers, and the 
seats of them that sold the doves; 11:16and he would not suffer that any man 
should carry a vessel through the temple. 11:17And he taught, and 
said unto them, Is it not written, My house shall be called a house of prayer 
for all the nations? but ye have made it a den of robbers. 11:18And the chief 
priests and the scribes heard it, and sought how they might destroy him: for 
they feared him, for all the multitude was astonished at his teaching. 11:19And every evening he went forth out of 
the city. 11:20And as they passed by in the morning, 
they saw the fig tree withered away from the roots. 11:21And Peter calling 
to remembrance saith unto him, Rabbi, behold, the fig tree which thou cursedst 
is withered away. 11:22And Jesus answering saith unto them, 
Have faith in God. 11:23Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall 
say unto this mountain, Be thou taken up and cast into the sea; and shall not 
doubt in his heart, but shall believe that what he saith cometh to pass; he 
shall have it. 11:24Therefore I say unto you, All things 
whatsoever ye pray and ask for, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have 
them. 11:25And whensoever ye stand praying, 
forgive, if ye have aught against any one; that your Father also who is in 
heaven may forgive you your trespasses. 11:26But if ye do not forgive, neither 
will your Father who is in heaven forgive your trespasses. 11:27And they come again to Jerusalem: and 
as he was walking in the temple, there come to him the chief priests, and the 
scribes, and the elders; 11:28and they said unto him, By what 
authority doest thou these things? or who gave thee this authority to do these 
things? 11:29And Jesus said unto them, I will ask 
of you one question, and answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do 
these things. 11:30The baptism of John, was it from 
heaven, or from men? answer me. 11:31And they reasoned with themselves, 
saying, If we shall say, From heaven; He will say, Why then did ye not believe 
him? 11:32But should we say, From men--they 
feared the people: for all verily held John to be a prophet. 11:33And they answered Jesus and say, We 
know not. And Jesus saith unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do 
these things. 

12:1And he began to speak unto them in 
parables. A man planted a vineyard, and set a hedge about it, and digged a pit 
for the winepress, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and went 
into another country. 12:2And at the season he sent to the 
husbandmen a servant, that he might receive from the husbandmen of the fruits of 
the vineyard. 12:3And they took him, and beat him, and 
sent him away empty. 12:4And again he sent unto them another 
servant; and him they wounded in the head, and handled shamefully. 12:5And he sent another; and him they 
killed: and many others; beating some, and killing some. 12:6He had yet one, a 
beloved son: he sent him last unto them, saying, They will reverence my son. 12:7But those husbandmen said among 
themselves, This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and the inheritance shall 
be ours. 12:8And they took him, and killed him, and 
cast him forth out of the vineyard. 12:9What therefore will the lord of the 
vineyard do? he will come and destroy the husbandmen, and will give the vineyard 
unto others. 12:10Have ye not read even this scripture: 
 The stone which the builders rejected, 
 The same was made the head of the corner; 
 12:11This was from the Lord, 
 And it is marvellous in our eyes? 
12:12And they sought to lay hold on him; 
and they feared the multitude; for they perceived that he spake the parable 
against them: and they left him, and went away. 12:13And they send unto 
him certain of the Pharisees and of the Herodians, that they might catch him in 
talk. 12:14And when they were come, they say unto 
him, Teacher, we know that thou art true, and carest not for any one; for thou 
regardest not the person of men, but of a truth teachest the way of God: Is it 
lawful to give tribute unto Caesar, or not? 12:15Shall we give, or 
shall we not give? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said unto them, Why make ye 
trial of me? bring me a denarius, that I may see it. 12:16And they brought 
it. And he saith unto them, Whose is this image and superscription? And they 
said unto him, Caesar's. 12:17And Jesus said unto them, Render unto 
Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and unto God the things that are God's. And 
they marvelled greatly at him. 12:18And there come unto him Sadducees, who 
say that there is no resurrection; and they asked him, saying, 12:19Teacher, Moses wrote unto us, If a 
man's brother die, and leave a wife behind him, and leave no child, that his 
brother should take his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother. 12:20There were seven brethren: and the 
first took a wife, and dying left no seed; 12:21and the second 
took her, and died, leaving no seed behind him; and the third likewise: 12:22and the seven left no seed. Last of 
all the woman also died. 12:23In the resurrection whose wife shall 
she be of them? for the seven had her to wife. 12:24Jesus said unto 
them, Is it not for this cause that ye err, that ye know not the scriptures, nor 
the power of God? 12:25For when they shall rise from the 
dead, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage; but are as angels in 
heaven. 12:26But as touching the dead, that they 
are raised; have ye not read in the book of Moses, in the place 
concerning the Bush, how God spake unto him, saying, I am the God of 
Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? 12:27He is not the God 
of the dead, but of the living: ye do greatly err. 12:28And one of the 
scribes came, and heard them questioning together, and knowing that he had 
answered them well, asked him, What commandment is the first of all? 12:29Jesus answered, The first is, Hear, O 
Israel; The Lord our God, the Lord is one: 12:30and thou shalt 
love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all 
thy mind, and with all thy strength. 12:31The second is this, Thou shalt love 
thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. 12:32And the scribe said unto him, Of a 
truth, Teacher, thou hast well said that he is one; and there is none other but 
he: 12:33and to love him with all the heart, 
and with all the understanding, and with all the strength, and to love his 
neighbor as himself, is much more than all whole burnt-offerings and sacrifices. 
12:34And when Jesus saw that he answered 
discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. And no 
man after that durst ask him any question. 12:35And Jesus answered 
and said, as he taught in the temple, How say the scribes that the Christ is the 
son of David? 12:36David himself said in the Holy Spirit, 

 The Lord said unto my Lord, 
 Sit thou on my right hand, 
 Till I make thine enemies the footstool of thy feet. 
12:37David himself calleth him Lord; and 
whence is he his son? And the common people heard him gladly. 12:38And in his teaching he said, Beware of 
the scribes, who desire to walk in long robes, and to have salutations in 
the marketplaces, 12:39and chief seats in the synagogues, and 
chief places at feasts: 12:40they that devour widows' houses, and 
for a pretence make long prayers; these shall receive greater condemnation. 12:41And he sat down over against the 
treasury, and beheld how the multitude cast money into the treasury: and many 
that were rich cast in much. 12:42And there came a poor widow, and she 
cast in two mites, which make a farthing. 12:43And he called unto 
him his disciples, and said unto them, Verily I say unto you, This poor widow 
cast in more than all they that are casting into the treasury: 12:44for they all did cast in of their 
superfluity; but she of her want did cast in all that she had, even all 
her living. 

13:1And as he went forth out of the temple, 
one of his disciples saith unto him, Teacher, behold, what manner of stones and 
what manner of buildings! 13:2And Jesus said unto him, Seest thou 
these great buildings? there shall not be left here one stone upon another, 
which shall not be thrown down. 13:3And as he sat on the mount of Olives 
over against the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him 
privately, 13:4Tell us, when shall these things be? 
and what shall be the sign when these things are all about to be 
accomplished? 13:5And Jesus began to say unto them, Take 
heed that no man lead you astray. 13:6Many shall come in my name, saying, I 
am he; and shall lead many astray. 13:7And when ye shall 
hear of wars and rumors of wars, be not troubled: these things must needs 
come to pass; but the end is not yet. 13:8For nation shall rise against nation, 
and kingdom against kingdom; there shall be earthquakes in divers places; there 
shall be famines: these things are the beginning of travail. 13:9But take ye heed to 
yourselves: for they shall deliver you up to councils; and in synagogues shall 
ye be beaten; and before governors and kings shall ye stand for my sake, for a 
testimony unto them. 13:10And the gospel must first be preached 
unto all the nations. 13:11And when they lead you to 
judgment, and deliver you up, be not anxious beforehand what ye shall speak: 
but whatsoever shall be given you in that hour, that speak ye; for it is not ye 
that speak, but the Holy Spirit. 13:12And brother shall deliver up brother 
to death, and the father his child; and children shall rise up against parents, 
and cause them to be put to death. 13:13And ye shall be hated of all men for 
my name's sake: but he that endureth to the end, the same shall be saved. 13:14But when ye see the abomination of 
desolation standing where he ought not (let him that readeth understand), then 
let them that are in Judaea flee unto the mountains: 13:15and let him that 
is on the housetop not go down, nor enter in, to take anything out his house: 13:16and let him that is in the field not 
return back to take his cloak. 13:17But woe unto them that are with child 
and to them that give suck in those days! 13:18And pray ye that 
it be not in the winter. 13:19For those days shall be tribulation, 
such as there hath not been the like from the beginning of the creation which 
God created until now, and never shall be. 13:20And except the 
Lord had shortened the days, no flesh would have been saved; but for the elect's 
sake, whom he chose, he shortened the days. 13:21And then if any 
man shall say unto you, Lo, here is the Christ; or, Lo, there; believe it 
not: 13:22for there shall arise false Christs 
and false prophets, and shall show signs and wonders, that they may lead astray, 
if possible, the elect. 13:23But take ye heed: behold, I have told 
you all things beforehand. 13:24But in those days, after that 
tribulation, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, 
13:25and the stars shall be falling from 
heaven, and the powers that are in the heavens shall be shaken. 13:26And then shall they see the Son of man 
coming in clouds with great power and glory. 13:27And then shall he 
send forth the angels, and shall gather together his elect from the four winds, 
from the uttermost part of the earth to the uttermost part of heaven. 13:28Now from the fig tree learn her 
parable: when her branch is now become tender, and putteth forth its leaves, ye 
know that the summer is nigh; 13:29even so ye also, when ye see these 
things coming to pass, know ye that he is nigh, even at the doors. 13:30Verily I say unto you, This generation 
shall not pass away, until all these things be accomplished. 13:31Heaven and earth shall pass away: but 
my words shall not pass away. 13:32But of that day or that hour knoweth 
no one, not even the angels in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father. 13:33Take ye heed, watch and pray: for ye 
know not when the time is. 13:34It is as when a man, 
sojourning in another country, having left his house, and given authority to his 
servants, to each one his work, commanded also the porter to watch. 13:35Watch therefore: for ye know not when 
the lord of the house cometh, whether at even, or at midnight, or at 
cockcrowing, or in the morning; 13:36lest coming suddenly he find you 
sleeping. 13:37And what I say unto you I say unto 
all, Watch. 

14:1Now after two days was the feast 
of the passover and the unleavened bread: and the chief priests and the 
scribes sought how they might take him with subtlety, and kill him: 14:2for they said, Not during the feast, 
lest haply there shall be a tumult of the people. 14:3And while he was in 
Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at meat, there came a woman 
having an alabaster cruse of ointment of pure nard very costly; and she 
brake the cruse, and poured it over his head. 14:4But there were some 
that had indignation among themselves, saying, To what purpose hath this 
waste of the ointment been made? 14:5For this ointment might have been sold 
for above three hundred shillings, and given to the poor. And they murmured 
against her. 14:6But Jesus said, Let her alone; why 
trouble ye her? she hath wrought a good work on me. 14:7For ye have the 
poor always with you, and whensoever ye will ye can do them good: but me ye have 
not always. 14:8She hath done what she could; she hath 
anointed my body beforehand for the burying. 14:9And verily I say 
unto you, Wheresoever the gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, 
that also which this woman hath done shall be spoken of for a memorial of her. 
14:10And Judas Iscariot, he that was one of 
the twelve, went away unto the chief priests, that he might deliver him unto 
them. 14:11And they, when they heard it, were 
glad, and promised to give him money. And he sought how he might conveniently 
deliver him unto them. 14:12And on the first day of unleavened 
bread, when they sacrificed the passover, his disciples say unto him, Where wilt 
thou that we go and make ready that thou mayest eat the passover? 14:13And he sendeth two of his disciples, 
and saith unto them, Go into the city, and there shall meet you a man bearing a 
pitcher of water: follow him; 14:14and wheresoever he shall enter in, say 
to the master of the house, The Teacher saith, Where is my guest-chamber, where 
I shall eat the passover with my disciples? 14:15And he will 
himself show you a large upper room furnished and ready: and there make 
ready for us. 14:16And the disciples went forth, and came 
into the city, and found as he had said unto them: and they made ready the 
passover. 14:17And when it was evening he cometh with 
the twelve. 14:18And as they sat and were eating, Jesus 
said, Verily I say unto you, One of you shall betray me, even he that 
eateth with me. 14:19They began to be sorrowful, and to say 
unto him one by one, Is it I? 14:20And he said unto them, It is 
one of the twelve, he that dippeth with me in the dish. 14:21For the Son of man 
goeth, even as it is written of him: but woe unto that man through whom the Son 
of man is betrayed! good were it for that man if he had not been born. 14:22And as they were eating, he took 
bread, and when he had blessed, he brake it, and gave to them, and said, Take 
ye: this is my body. 14:23And he took a cup, and when he had 
given thanks, he gave to them: and they all drank of it. 14:24And he said unto 
them, This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many. 14:25Verily I say unto you, I shall no more 
drink of the fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it new in the 
kingdom of God. 14:26And when they had sung a hymn, they 
went out unto the mount of Olives. 14:27And Jesus saith unto them, All ye 
shall be offended: for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep 
shall be scattered abroad. 14:28Howbeit, after I am raised up, I will 
go before you into Galilee. 14:29But Peter said unto him, Although all 
shall be offended, yet will not I. 14:30And Jesus saith unto him, Verily I say 
unto thee, that thou to-day, even this night, before the cock crow twice, 
shalt deny me thrice. 14:31But he spake exceedingly vehemently, 
If I must die with thee, I will not deny thee. And in like manner also said they 
all. 14:32And they come unto a place which was 
named Gethsemane: and he saith unto his disciples, Sit ye here, while I pray. 14:33And he taketh with him Peter and James 
and John, and began to be greatly amazed, and sore troubled. 14:34And he saith unto them, My soul is 
exceeding sorrowful even unto death: abide ye here, and watch. 14:35And he went forward a little, and fell 
on the ground, and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass away 
from him. 14:36And he said, Abba, Father, all things 
are possible unto thee; remove this cup from me: howbeit not what I will, but 
what thou wilt. 14:37And he cometh, and findeth them 
sleeping, and saith unto Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? couldest thou not watch 
one hour? 14:38Watch and pray, that ye enter not into 
temptation: the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. 14:39And again he went away, and prayed, 
saying the same words. 14:40And again he came, and found them 
sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy; and they knew not what to answer him. 
14:41And he cometh the third time, and 
saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest: it is enough; the hour is 
come; behold, the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. 14:42Arise, let us be going: behold, he 
that betrayeth me is at hand. 14:43And straightway, while he yet spake, 
cometh Judas, one of the twelve, and with him a multitude with swords and 
staves, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders. 14:44Now he that betrayed him had given 
them a token, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that is he; take him, and lead 
him away safely. 14:45And when he was come, straightway he 
came to him, and saith, Rabbi; and kissed him. 14:46And they laid 
hands on him, and took him. 14:47But a certain one of them that stood 
by drew his sword, and smote the servant of the high priest, and struck off his 
ear. 14:48And Jesus answered and said unto them, 
Are ye come out, as against a robber, with swords and staves to seize me? 14:49I was daily with you in the temple 
teaching, and ye took me not: but this is done that the scriptures might 
be fulfilled. 14:50And they all left him, and fled. 14:51And a certain young man followed with 
him, having a linen cloth cast about him, over his naked body: and 
they lay hold on him; 14:52but he left the linen cloth, and fled 
naked. 14:53And they led Jesus away to the high 
priest: and there come together with him all the chief priests and the elders 
and the scribes. 14:54And Peter had followed him afar off, 
even within, into the court of the high priest; and he was sitting with the 
officers, and warming himself in the light of the fire. 14:55Now the chief priests and the whole 
council sought witness against Jesus to put him to death; and found it not. 14:56For many bare false witness against 
him, and their witness agreed not together. 14:57And there stood up 
certain, and bare false witness against him, saying, 14:58We heard him say, 
I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and in three days I will 
build another made without hands. 14:59And not even so did their witness 
agree together. 14:60And the high priest stood up in the 
midst, and asked Jesus, saying, Answerest thou nothing? what is it which these 
witness against thee? 14:61But he held his peace, and answered 
nothing. Again the high priest asked him, and saith unto him, Art thou the 
Christ, the Son of the Blessed? 14:62And Jesus said, I am: and ye shall see 
the Son of man sitting at the right hand of Power, and coming with the clouds of 
heaven. 14:63And the high priest rent his clothes, 
and saith, What further need have we of witnesses? 14:64Ye have heard the 
blasphemy: what think ye? And they all condemned him to be worthy of death. 14:65And some began to spit on him, and to 
cover his face, and to buffet him, and to say unto him, Prophesy: and the 
officers received him with blows of their hands. 14:66And as Peter was 
beneath in the court, there cometh one of the maids of the high priest; 14:67and seeing Peter warming himself, she 
looked upon him, and saith, Thou also wast with the Nazarene, even Jesus. 
14:68But he denied, saying, I neither know, 
nor understand what thou sayest: and he went out into the porch; and the cock 
crew. 14:69And the maid saw him, and began again 
to say to them that stood by, This is one of them. 14:70But he again 
denied it. And after a little while again they that stood by said to Peter, of a 
truth thou art one of them; for thou art a Galilaean. 14:71But he began to curse, and to swear, I 
know not this man of whom ye speak. 14:72And straightway the second time the 
cock crew. And Peter called to mind the word, how that Jesus said unto him, 
Before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. And when he thought 
thereon, he wept. 

15:1And straightway in the morning the 
chief priests with the elders and scribes, and the whole council, held a 
consultation, and bound Jesus, and carried him away, and delivered him up to 
Pilate. 15:2And Pilate asked him, Art thou the King 
of the Jews? And he answering saith unto him, Thou sayest. 15:3And the chief 
priests accused him of many things. 15:4And Pilate again asked him, saying, 
Answerest thou nothing? behold how many things they accuse thee of. 15:5But Jesus no more answered anything; 
insomuch that Pilate marvelled. 15:6Now at the feast he used to release 
unto them one prisoner, whom they asked of him. 15:7And there was one 
called Barabbas, lying bound with them that had made insurrection, men 
who in the insurrection had committed murder. 15:8And the multitude 
went up and began to ask him to do as he was wont to do unto them. 15:9And Pilate answered them, saying, Will 
ye that I release unto you the King of the Jews? 15:10For he perceived 
that for envy the chief priests had delivered him up. 15:11But the chief 
priests stirred up the multitude, that he should rather release Barabbas unto 
them. 15:12And Pilate again answered and said 
unto them, What then shall I do unto him whom ye call the King of the Jews? 15:13And they cried out again, Crucify him. 
15:14And Pilate said unto them, Why, what 
evil hath he done? But they cried out exceedingly, Crucify him. 15:15And Pilate, wishing to content the 
multitude, released unto them Barabbas, and delivered Jesus, when he had 
scourged him, to be crucified. 15:16And the soldiers led him away within 
the court, which is the Praetorium; and they call together the whole band. 15:17And they clothe him with purple, and 
platting a crown of thorns, they put it on him; 15:18and they began to 
salute him, Hail, King of the Jews! 15:19And they smote his head with a reed, 
and spat upon him, and bowing their knees worshipped him. 15:20And when they had 
mocked him, they took off from him the purple, and put on him his garments. And 
they lead him out to crucify him. 15:21And they compel one passing by, Simon 
of Cyrene, coming from the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to go 
with them, that he might bear his cross. 15:22And they bring him 
unto the place Golgotha, which is, being interpreted, The place of a skull. 15:23And they offered him wine mingled with 
myrrh: but he received it not. 15:24And they crucify him, and part his 
garments among them, casting lots upon them, what each should take. 15:25And it was the third hour, and they 
crucified him. 15:26And the superscription of his 
accusation was written over, THE KING OF THE JEWS. 15:27And with him they 
crucify two robbers; one on his right hand, and one on his left. 15:28And the scripture was fulfilled, 
which saith, And he was reckoned with transgressors. 15:29And they that 
passed by railed on him, wagging their heads, and saying, Ha! Thou that 
destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three days, 15:30save thyself, and 
come down from the cross. 15:31In like manner also the chief priests 
mocking him among themselves with the scribes said, He saved others; 
himself he cannot save. 15:32Let the Christ, the King of Israel, 
now come down from the cross, that we may see and believe. And they that were 
crucified with him reproached him. 15:33And when the sixth hour was come, 
there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. 15:34And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with 
a loud voice, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is, being interpreted, My God, 
my God, why hast thou forsaken me? 15:35And some of them that stood by, when 
they heard it, said, Behold, he calleth Elijah. 15:36And one ran, and 
filling a sponge full of vinegar, put it on a reed, and gave him to drink, 
saying, Let be; let us see whether Elijah cometh to take him down. 15:37And Jesus uttered a loud voice, and 
gave up the ghost. 15:38And the veil of the temple was rent in 
two from the top to the bottom. 15:39And when the centurion, who stood by 
over against him, saw that he so gave up the ghost, he said, Truly this man was 
the Son of God. 15:40And there were also women beholding 
from afar: among whom were both Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of 
James the less and of Joses, and Salome; 15:41who, when he was 
in Galilee, followed him, and ministered unto him; and many other women that 
came up with him unto Jerusalem. 15:42And when even was now come, because it 
was the Preparation, that is, the day before the sabbath, 15:43there came Joseph 
of Arimathaea, a councillor of honorable estate, who also himself was looking 
for the kingdom of God; and he boldly went in unto Pilate, and asked for the 
body of Jesus. 15:44And Pilate marvelled if he were 
already dead: and calling unto him the centurion, he asked him whether he had 
been any while dead. 15:45And when he learned it of the 
centurion, he granted the corpse to Joseph. 15:46And he bought a 
linen cloth, and taking him down, wound him in the linen cloth, and laid him in 
a tomb which had been hewn out of a rock; and he rolled a stone against the door 
of the tomb. 15:47And Mary Magdalene and Mary the 
mother of Joses beheld where he was laid. 

16:1And when the sabbath was past, Mary 
Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices, that 
they might come and anoint him. 16:2And very early on the first day of the 
week, they come to the tomb when the sun was risen. 16:3And they were 
saying among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the 
tomb? 16:4and looking up, they see that the stone 
is rolled back: for it was exceeding great. 16:5And entering into 
the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, arrayed in a white 
robe; and they were amazed. 16:6And he saith unto them, Be not amazed: 
ye seek Jesus, the Nazarene, who hath been crucified: he is risen; he is not 
here: behold, the place where they laid him! 16:7But go, tell his 
disciples and Peter, He goeth before you into Galilee: there shall ye see him, 
as he said unto you. 16:8And they went out, and fled from the 
tomb; for trembling and astonishment had come upon them: and they said nothing 
to any one; for they were afraid. 16:9Now when he was risen early on the 
first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had 
cast out seven demons. 16:10She went and told them that had been 
with him, as they mourned and wept. 16:11And they, when they heard that he was 
alive, and had been seen of her, disbelieved. 16:12And after these 
things he was manifested in another form unto two of them, as they walked, on 
their way into the country. 16:13And they went away and told it unto 
the rest: neither believed they them. 16:14And afterward he was manifested unto 
the eleven themselves as they sat at meat; and he upbraided them with their 
unbelief and hardness of heart, because they believed not them that had seen him 
after he was risen. 16:15And he said unto them, Go ye into all 
the world, and preach the gospel to the whole creation. 16:16He that believeth 
and is baptized shall be saved; but he that disbelieveth shall be condemned. 16:17And these signs shall accompany them 
that believe: in my name shall they cast out demons; they shall speak with new 
tongues; 16:18they shall take up serpents, and if 
they drink any deadly thing, it shall in no wise hurt them; they shall lay hands 
on the sick, and they shall recover. 16:19So then the Lord Jesus, after he had 
spoken unto them, was received up into heaven, and sat down at the right hand of 
God. 16:20And they went forth, and preached 
everywhere, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word by the signs 
that followed. Amen. 

