
The Martyrdom of Polycarp












The letter of the 
      Smyrnaeans or the Martyrdom of Polycarp
Translated by J.B. 
      Lightfoot.  Adapt. and mod. (c) 1990. ATHENA DATA PRODUCTS 
      Polycarp prologueThe church of God which sojourneth at Smyrna to 
      the Church of God which sojourneth in Philomelium and to all the 
      brotherhoods of the holy and universal Church sojourning in every place; 
      mercy and peace and love from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ be 
      multiplied. 
      Polycarp 1:1We write unto you, brethren, an account of what befell 
      those that suffered martyrdom and especially the blessed Polycarp, who 
      stayed the persecution, having as it were set his seal upon it by his 
      martyrdom. For nearly all the foregoing events came to pass that the Lord 
      might show us once more an example of martyrdom which is conformable to 
      the Gospel 
      Polycarp 1:2For he lingered that he might be delivered up, even as 
      the Lord did, to the end that we too might be imitators of him, not 
      lookingonly to that which concerneth ourselves, but also to that which 
      concerneth our neighbors.  For it is the office of true and steadfast 
      love, not only to desire that oneself be saved, but all the brethren also. 

      Polycarp 2:1Blessed therefore and noble are all the martyrdoms 
      which have taken place according to the will of God (for it behoveth us to 
      be very scrupulous and to assign to God the power over all things). 
      Polycarp 2:2For who could fail to admire their nobleness and 
      patient endurance and loyalty to the Master? seeing that when they were so 
      torn by lashes that the mechanism of their flesh was visible even as far 
      as the inward veins and arteries, they endured patiently, so that the very 
      bystanders had pity and wept; while they themselves reached such a pitch 
      of bravery that none of them uttered a cry or a groan, thus showing to us 
      all that at that hour the martyrs of Christ being tortured were absent 
      from the flesh, or rather that the Lord was standing by and conversing 
      with them. 
      Polycarp 2:3And giving heed unto the grace of Christ they despised 
      the tortures of this world, purchasing at the cost of one hour a release 
      from eternal punishment. And they found the fire of their inhuman 
      torturers cold: for they set before their eyes the escape from the eternal 
      fire which is never quenched; while with the eyes of their heart they 
      gazed upon the good things which are reserved for those that endure 
      patiently, things which neither ear hath heard nor eye hath seen, neither 
      have they entered into the heart of man, but were shown by the Lord to 
      them, for they were no longer men but angels already. 
      Polycarp 2:4And in like manner also those that were condemned to 
      the wild beasts endured fearful punishments, being made to lie on sharp 
      shells and buffeted with other forms of manifold tortures, that the devil 
      might, if possible, by the persistence of the punishment bring them to a 
      denial; for he tried many wiles against them. 
      Polycarp 3:1But thanks be to God; for He verily prevailed against 
      all. For the right noble Germanicus encouraged their timorousness through 
      the constancy which was in him; and he fought with the wild beasts in a 
      signal way. For when the proconsul wished to prevail upon him and bade him 
      have pity on his youth, he used violence and dragged the wild beast 
      towards him, desiring the more speedily to obtain a release from their 
      unrighteous and lawless life. 
      Polycarp 3:2So after this all the multitude, marvelling at the 
      bravery of the God-beloved and God-fearing people of the Christians, 
      raised a cry, 'Away with the atheists; let search be made for Polycarp.' 
      Polycarp 4:1But one man, Quintus by name, a Phrygian newly arrived 
      from Phrygia, when he saw the wild beasts, turned coward. He it was who 
      had forced himself and some others to come forward of their own free will. 
      This man the proconsul by much entreaty persuaded to swear the oath and to 
      offer incense. For this cause therefore, brethren, we praise not those who 
      deliver themselves up, since the Gospel doth not so teach us. 
      Polycarp 5:1Now the glorious Polycarp at the first, when he heard 
      it, so far from being dismayed, was desirous of remaining in town; but the 
      greater part persuaded him to withdraw. So he withdrew to a farm not far 
      distant from the city; and there he stayed with a few companions, doing 
      nothing else night and day but praying for all men and for the churches 
      throughout the world; for this was his constant habit. 
      Polycarp 5:2And while praying he falleth into a trance three days 
      before his apprehension; and he saw his pillow burning with fire. And he 
      turned and said unto those that were with him: 'It must needs be that I 
      shall be burned alive.' 
      Polycarp 6:1And as those that were in search of him persisted, he 
      departed to another farm; and forthwith they that were in search of him 
      came up; and not finding him, they seized two slave lads, one of whom 
      confessed under torture; 
      Polycarp 6:2for it was impossible for him to lie concealed, seeing 
      that the very persons who betrayed him were people of his own household. 
      And the captain of the police, who chanced to have the very name, being 
      called Herod, was eager to bring him into the stadium, that he himself 
      might fulfill his appointed lot, being made a partaker with Christ, while 
      they--his betrayers--underwent the punishment of Judas himself. 
      Polycarp 7:1So taking the lad with them, on the Friday about the 
      supper hour, the gendarmes and horsemen went forth with their accustomed 
      arms, hastening as against a robber. And coming up in a body late in the 
      evening, they found the man himself in bed in an upper chamber in a 
      certain cottage; and though he might have departed thence to another 
      place, he would not, saying, The will of God be done. 
      Polycarp 7:2So when he heard that they were come, he went down and 
      conversed with them, the bystanders marvelling at his age and his 
      constancy, and wondering how there should be so much eagerness for the 
      apprehension of an old man like him. Thereupon forthwith he gave orders 
      that a table should be spread for them to eat and drink at that hour, as 
      much as they desired. And he persuaded them to grant him an hour that he 
      might pray unmolested; 
      Polycarp 7:3and on their consenting, he stood up and prayed, being 
      so full of the grace of God, that for two hours he could not hold his 
      peace, and those that heard were amazed, and many repented that they had 
      come against such a venerable old man. 
      Polycarp 8:1But when at length he brought his prayer to an end, 
      after remembering all who at any time had come in his way, small and 
      great, high and low, and all the universal Church throughout the world, 
      the hour of departure being come, they seated him on an ass and brought 
      him into the city, it being a high Sabbath. 
      Polycarp 8:2And he was met by Herod the captain of police and his 
      father Nicetes, who also removed him to their carriage and tried to 
      prevail upon him, seating themselves by his side and saying, 'Why what 
      harm is there in saying, Caesar is Lord, and offering incense', with more 
      to this effect, 'and saving thyself?' But he at first gave them no answer. 
      When however they persisted, he said, 'I am not going to do what ye 
      counsel me.' 
      Polycarp 8:3Then they, failing to persuade him, uttered threatening 
      words and made him dismount with speed, so that he bruised his shin, as he 
      got down from the carriage. And without even turning round, he went on his 
      way promptly and with speed, as if nothing had happened to him, being 
      taken to the stadium; there being such a tumult in the stadium that no 
      man's voice could be so much as heard. 
      Polycarp 9:1But as Polycarp entered into the stadium, a voice came 
      to him from heaven; 'Be strong, Polycarp, and play the man.' And no one 
      saw the speaker, but those of our people who were present heard the voice. 
      And at length, when he was brought up, there was a great tumult, for they 
      heard that Polycarp had been apprehended. 
      Polycarp 9:2When then he was brought before him, the proconsul 
      enquired whether he were the man. And on his confessing that he was, he 
      tried to persuade him to a denial saying, 'Have respect to thine age,' and 
      other things in accordance therewith, as it is their wont to say; 'Swear 
      by the genius of Caesar; repent and say, Away with the atheists.' Then 
      Polycarp with solemn countenance looked upon the whole multitude of 
      lawless heathen that were in the stadium, and waved his hand to them; and 
      groaning and looking up to heaven he said, 'Away with the atheists.' 
      Polycarp 9:3But when the magistrate pressed him hard and said, 
      'Swear the oath, and I will release thee; revile the Christ,' Polycarp 
      said, 'Fourscore and six years have I been His servant, and He hath done 
      me no wrong. How then can I blaspheme my King who saved me?' 
      Polycarp 10:1But on his persisting again and saying, 'Swear by the 
      genius of Caesar,' he answered, 'If thou supposest vainly that I will 
      swear by the genius of Caesar, as thou sayest, and feignest that thou art 
      ignorant who I am, hear thou plainly, I am a Christian. But if thou 
      wouldest learn the doctrine of Christianity, assign a day and give me a 
      hearing.' 
      Polycarp 10:2The proconsul said; 'Prevail upon the people.' But 
      Polycarp said; 'As for thyself, I should have held thee worthy of 
      discourse; for we have been taught to render, as is meet, to princes and 
      authorities appointed by God such honor as does us no harm; but as for 
      these, I do not hold them worthy, that I should defend myself before 
      them.' 
      Polycarp 11:1Whereupon the proconsul said; 'I have wild beasts here 
      and I will throw thee to them, except thou repent' But he said, 'Call for 
      them: for the repentance from better to worse is a change not permitted to 
      us; but it is a noble thing to change from untowardness to righteousness' 
      Polycarp 11:2Then he said to him again, 'I will cause thee to be 
      consumed by fire, if thou despisest the wild beasts, unless thou repent.' 
      But Polycarp said; 'Thou threatenest that fire which burneth for a season 
      and after a little while is quenched: for thou art ignorant of the fire of 
      the future judgment and eternal punishment, which is reserved for the 
      ungodly. But why delayest thou? Come, do what thou wilt.' 
      Polycarp 12:1Saying these things and more besides, he was inspired 
      with courage and joy, and his countenance was filled with grace, so that 
      not only did it not drop in dismay at the things which were said to him, 
      but on the contrary the proconsul was astounded and sent his own herald to 
      proclaim three times in the midst of the stadium, 'Polycarp hath confessed 
      himself to be a Christian.' 
      Polycarp 12:2When this was proclaimed by the herald, the whole 
      multitude both of Gentiles and of Jews who dwelt in Smyrna cried out with 
      ungovernable wrath and with a loud shout, 'This is the teacher of Asia, 
      the father of the Christians, the puller down of our gods, who teacheth 
      numbers not to sacrifice nor worship.' Saying these things, they shouted 
      aloud and asked the Asiarch Philip to let a lion loose upon Polycarp. But 
      he said that it was not lawful for him, since he had brought the sports to 
      a close. 
      Polycarp 12:3Then they thought fit to shout out with one accord 
      that Polycarp should be burned alive. For it must needs be that the matter 
      of the vision should be fulfilled, which was shown him concerning his 
      pillow, when he saw it on fire while praying, and turning round he said 
      prophetically to the faithful who were with him, 'I must needs be burned 
      alive.' 
      Polycarp 13:1These things then happened with so great speed, 
      quicker than words could tell, the crowds forthwith collecting from the 
      workshops and baths timber and faggots, and the Jews more especially 
      assisting in this with zeal, as is their wont. 
      Polycarp 13:2But when the pile was made ready, divesting himself of 
      all his upper garments and loosing his girdle, he endeavored also to take 
      off his shoes, though not in the habit of doing this before, because all 
      the faithful at all times vied eagerly who should soonest touch his flesh. 
      For he had been treated with all honor for his holy life even before his 
      gray hairs came. 
      Polycarp 13:3Forthwith then the instruments that were prepared for 
      the pile were placed about him; and as they were going likewise to nail 
      him to the stake, he said; 'Leave me as I am; for He that hath granted me 
      to endure the fire will grant me also to remain at the pile unmoved, even 
      without the security which ye seek from the nails.' 
      Polycarp 14:1So they did not nail him, but tied him. Then he, 
      placing his hands behind him and being bound to the stake, like a noble 
      ram out of a great flock for an offering, a burnt sacrifice made ready and 
      acceptable to God, looking up to heaven said; 'O Lord God Almighty, the 
      Father of Thy beloved and blessed Son Jesus Christ, through whom we have 
      received the knowledge of Thee, the God of angels and powers and of all 
      creation and of the whole race of the righteous, who live in Thy presence; 

      Polycarp 14:2I bless Thee for that Thou hast granted me this day 
      and hour, that I might receive a portion amongst the number of martyrs in 
      the cup of [Thy] Christ unto resurrection of eternal life, both of soul 
      and of body, in the incorruptibility of the Holy Spirit. May I be received 
      among these in Thy presence this day, as a rich and acceptable sacrifice, 
      as Thou didst prepare and reveal it beforehand, and hast accomplished it, 
      Thou that art the faithful and true God. 
      Polycarp 14:3For this cause, yea and for all things, I praise Thee, 
      I bless Thee, I glorify Thee, through the eternal and heavenly 
      High-priest, Jesus Christ, Thy beloved Son, through whom with Him and the 
      Holy Spirit be glory both now [and ever] and for the ages to come. Amen.' 
      Polycarp 15:1When he had offered up the Amen and finished his 
      prayer, the firemen lighted the fire. And, a mighty flame flashing forth, 
      we to whom it was given to see, saw a marvel, yea and we were preserved 
      that we might relate to the rest what happened. 
      Polycarp 15:2The fire, making the appearance of a vault, like the 
      sail of a vessel filled by the wind, made a wall round about the body of 
      the martyr; and it was there in the midst, not like flesh burning, but 
      like [a loaf in the oven or like] gold and silver refined in a furnace. 
      For we perceived such a fragrant smell, as if it were the wafted odor of 
      frankincense or some other precious spice. 
      Polycarp 16:1So at length the lawless men, seeing that his body 
      could not be consumed by the fire, ordered an executioner to go up to him 
      and stab him with a dagger. And when he had done this, there came forth [a 
      dove and] a quantity of blood, so that it extinguished the fire; and all 
      the multitude marvelled that there should be so great a difference between 
      the unbelievers and the elect. 
      Polycarp 16:2In the number of these was this man, the glorious 
      martyr Polycarp, who was found an apostolic and prophetic teacher in our 
      own time, a bishop of the holy Church which is in Smyrna. For every word 
      which he uttered from his mouth was accomplished and will be accomplished. 

      Polycarp 17:1But the jealous and envious Evil One, the adversary of 
      the family of the righteous, having seen the greatness of his martyrdom 
      and his blameless life from the beginning, and how he was crowned with the 
      crown of immortality and had won a reward which none could gainsay, 
      managed that not even his poor body should be taken away by us, although 
      many desired to do this and to touch his holy flesh. 
      Polycarp 17:2So he put forward Nicetes, the father of Herod and 
      brother of Alce, to plead with the magistrate not to give up his body, 
      'lest,' so it was said, 'they should abandon the crucified one and begin 
      to worship this man'--this being done at the instigation and urgent 
      entreaty of the Jews, who also watched when we were about to take it from 
      the fire, not knowing that it will be impossible for us either to forsake 
      at any time the Christ who suffered for the salvation of the whole world 
      of those that are saved--suffered though faultless for sinners--nor to 
      worship any other. 
      Polycarp 17:3For Him, being the Son of God, we adore, but the 
      martyrs as disciples and imitators of the Lord we cherish as they deserve 
      for their matchless affection towards their own King and Teacher. May it 
      be our lot also to be found partakers and fellow-disciples with them. 
      Polycarp 18:1The centurion therefore, seeing the opposition raised 
      on the part of the Jews, set him in the midst and burnt him after their 
      custom. 
      Polycarp 18:2And so we afterwards took up his bones which are more 
      valuable than precious stones and finer than refined gold, and laid them 
      in a suitable place; 
      Polycarp 18:3where the Lord will permit us to gather ourselves 
      together, as we are able, in gladness and joy, and to celebrate the 
      birth-day of his martyrdom for the commemoration of those that have 
      already fought in the contest, and for the training and preparation of 
      those that shall do so hereafter. 
      Polycarp 19:1So it befell the blessed Polycarp, who having with 
      those from Philadelphia suffered martyrdom in Smyrna--twelve in all--is 
      especially remembered more than the others by all men, so that he is 
      talked of even by the heathen in every place: for he showed himself not 
      only a notable teacher, but also a distinguished martyr, whose martyrdom 
      all desire to imitate, seeing that it was after the pattern of the Gospel 
      of Christ. 
      Polycarp 19:2Having by his endurance overcome the unrighteous ruler 
      in the conflict and so received the crown of immortality, he rejoiceth in 
      company with the Apostles and all righteous men, and glorifieth the 
      Almighty God and Father, and blesseth our Lord Jesus Christ, the savior of 
      our souls and helmsman of our bodies and shepherd of the universal Church 
      which is throughout the world. 
      Polycarp 20:1Ye indeed required that the things which happened 
      should be shown unto you at greater length: but we for the present have 
      certified you as it were in a summary through our brother Marcianus. When 
      then ye have informed yourselves of these things, send the letter about 
      likewise to the brethren which are farther off, that they also may glorify 
      the Lord, who maketh election from His own servants. 
      Polycarp 20:2Now unto Him that is able to bring us all by His grace 
      and bounty unto His eternal kingdom, through His only-begotten Son Jesus 
      Christ, be glory, honor, power, and greatness for ever. Salute all the 
      saints. They that are with us salute you, and Euarestus, who wrote the 
      letter, with his whole house. 
      Polycarp 21:1Now the blessed Polycarp was martyred on the second 
      day of the first part of the month Xanthicus, on the seventh before the 
      calends of March, on a great Sabbath, at the eighth hour. He was 
      apprehended by Herodes, when Philip of Tralles was high priest, in the 
      proconsulship of Statius Quadratus, but in the reign of the Eternal King 
      Jesus Christ. To whom be the glory, honor, greatness, and eternal throne, 
      from generation to generation. Amen. 
      Polycarp 22:1We bid you God speed, brethren, while ye walk by the 
      word of Jesus Christ which is according to the Gospel; with whom be glory 
      to God for the salvation of His holy elect; even as the blessed Polycarp 
      suffered martyrdom, in whose footsteps may it be our lot to be found in 
      the kingdom of Jesus Christ. 
      Polycarp 22:2This account Gaius copied from the papers of Irenaeus, 
      a disciple of Polycarp. The same also lived with Irenaeus. 
      Polycarp 22:3And I Socrates wrote it down in Corinth from the copy 
      of Gaius. Grace be with all men. 
      Polycarp 22:4And I Pionius again wrote it down from the 
      aforementioned copy, having searched it out (for the blessed Polycarp 
      showed me in a revelation, as I will declare in the sequel), gathering it 
      together when it was now well nigh worn out by age, that the Lord Jesus 
      Christ may gather me also with His elect into His heavenly kingdom; to 
      whom be the glory with the Father and the Holy Spirit for ever and ever. 
      Amen. {2*** THE THREE PROCEEDING PARAGRAPHS AS READ IN THE MOSCOW MS. 
      ***}2 {9 
      Polycarp 22:2This account Gaius copied from the papers of Irenaeus. 
      The same lived with Irenaeus who had been a disciple of the holy Polycarp. 
      For this Irenaeus, being in Rome at the time of the martyrdom of the 
      bishop Polycarp, instructed many; and many most excellent and orthodox 
      treatises by him are in circulation. In these he makes mention of 
      Polycarp, saying that he was taught by him. And he ably refuted every 
      heresy, and handed down the catholic rule of the Church just as he had 
      received it from the saint. He mentions this fact also, that when Marcion, 
      after whom the Marcionites are called, met the holy Polycarp on one 
      occasion, and said 'Recognize us, Polycarp,' he said in reply to Marcion, 
      'Yes indeed, I recognize the firstborn of Satan.' The following statement 
      also is made in the writings of Irenaeus, that on the  very day and 
      hour when Polycarp was martyred in Smyrna Irenaeus being in the city of 
      the Romans heard a voice as of a trumpet saying, ' Polycarp is martyred.' 
      Polycarp 22:3 From these papers of Irenaeus then, as has been stated 
      already, Gaius made a copy, and from the copy of Gaius Isocrates made 
      another in Corinth. 
      Polycarp 22:4And I Pionius again wrote it down from the copy of 
      Isocrates, having searched for it in obedience to a revelation of the holy 
      Polycarp, gathering it together, when it was well nigh worn out by age, 
      that the Lord Jesus Christ may gather me also with His elect into His 
      heavenly kingdom; to whom be the glory with the Father and the Son and the 
      Holy Spirit for ever and ever. Amen. 

