
The Martyrdom of Polycarp












(from: Apostolic Fathers, Kirsopp Lake, 1912 (Loeb Classical 
Library)) 
Martyrdom of Polycarp 


CHAPTER 0 
1 The Church of God which sojourns in Smyrna, to the Church of God which 
sojourns in Philomelium, and to all the sojournings of the Holy Catholic Church 
in every place. "Mercy, peace and love" of God the Father, and our Lord Jesus 
Christ be multiplied. 


CHAPTER 1 
Introduction 
1 We write to you, brethren, the story of the martyrs and of the blessed 
Polycarp, who put an end to the persecution by his martyrdom as though adding 
the seal. 
For one might almost say that all that had gone before happened in order that 
the Lord might show to us from above a martyrdom in accordance with 
the Gospel. 2 For he waited to be betrayed as also the Lord had done, that we 
too might become his imitators, "not thinking of ourselves alone, but also of 
our neighbours." For it is the mark of true and steadfast love, not to wish that 
oneself may be saved alone, but all the brethren also. 


1 He was the last to suffer and thus might be 
regarded as being the seal to the `witness' or `testimony' ('martyrion') of the 
Church. It is not clear whether 'martyria' and 'martyrion' ought to be 
translated `martyrdom' or `witness': there is an untranslateable play on the 
words.
2 Or perhaps 'witness.'


CHAPTER 2 
The sufferings of the Martyrs 
1 Blessed then and noble are all the martyrdoms which took place according to 
the will of God, for we must be very careful to assign the power over all to 
God. 2 For who would not admire their nobility and patience and love of their 
Master? For some were torn by scourging until the mechanism of their flesh was 
seen even to the lower veins and arteries, and they endured so that even the 
bystanders pitied them and mourned. And some even reached such a pitch of 
nobility that none of them groaned or wailed, showing to all of us that at that 
hour of their torture the noble martyrs of Christ were absent from the flesh, or 
rather that the Lord was standing by and talking with them. 3 And paying heed to 
the grace of Christ they despised worldly tortures, by a single hour purchasing 
everlasting life. And the fire of their cruel torturers had no heat for them, 
for they set before their eyes an escape from the fire which is everlasting and 
is never quenched, and with the eyes of their heart they looked up to the good 
things which are preserved for those who have endured, `which neither ear hath 
heard nor hath eye seen, nor hath it entered into the heart of man,' but it was 
shown by the Lord to them who were no longer men but already angels. 
4 And in the same way also those who were condemned to the beasts endured 
terrible torment, being stretched on sharp shells and buffeted with other kinds 
of various torments, that if it were possible the tyrant might bring them to a 
denial by continuous torture. For the devil used many wiles against them. 


1 This passage, combined with Hermas 'Vis.' 
2/2:7 and 'Sim.' 9/25:2, shows that the identification of the dead with angels 
existed in the second century in Christian circles.


CHAPTER 3 
Germanicus 
1 But thanks be to God, for he had no power over any. For the most noble 
Germanicus encouraged their fears by the endurance which was in him, and he 
fought gloriously with the wild beasts. For when the Pro-Consul wished to 
persuade him and bade him have pity on his youth, he violently dragged the beast 
towards himself, wishing to be released more quickly from their unrighteous and 
lawless life. 2 So after this all the crowd, wondering at the nobility of the 
God-loving and God-fearing people of the Christians, cried out: "Away with the 
Atheists; let Polycarp be searched for." 


CHAPTER 4 
Quintus 
1 But one, named Quintus, a Phrygian lately come from Phrygia, when he saw 
the wild beasts played the coward. Now it was he who had forced himself and some 
others to come forward of their own accord. Him the Pro-Consul persuaded with 
many entreaties to take the oath and offer sacrifice. For this reason, 
therefore, brethren, we do not commend those who give themselves up, since the 
Gospel does not give this teaching. 


CHAPTER 5 
Polycarp's retreat to the country 
1 But the most wonderful Polycarp, when he first heard it, was not disturbed, 
but wished to remain in the city; but the majority persuaded him to go away 
quietly, and he went out quietly to a farm, not far distant from the city, and 
stayed with a few friends, doing nothing but pray night and day for all, and for 
the Churches throughout the world, as was his custom. 2 And while he was praying 
he fell into a trance three days before he was arrested, and saw the pillow 
under his head burning with fire, and he turned and said to those who were with 
him: "I must be burnt alive." 


CHAPTER 6 
His betrayal 
1 And when the searching for him persisted he went to another farm; and those 
who were searching for him came up at once, and when they did not find him, they 
arrested young slaves, and one of them 
confessed under torture. 2 For it was indeed impossible for him to remain hid, 
since those who betrayed him were of his own house, and the police captain who 
had been allotted the very name, being called Herod, hastened to bring 
him to the arena that he might fulfil his appointed lot by becoming a partaker 
of Christ, while they who betrayed him should undergo the same punishment as 
Judas. 


1 Literally `children,' but constantly used 
for slaves; the South African use of `boy' is an almost exact 
parallel.
2 The writer desires to bring out the points 
of resemblance to the Passion of Christ. The coincidences are remarkable, but 
none are in themselves at all improbable.


CHAPTER 7 
The arrival of the police -- Their reception by Polycarp -- His prayer 
1 Taking the slave then police and cavalry went out on Friday about supper-time, 
with their usual arms, as if they were advancing against a robber. And late in the 
evening they came up together against him and found him lying in an upper room. 
And he might have departed to another place, but would not, saying, "the will of 
God be done." 2 So when he heard that they had arrived he went down and talked 
with them, while those who were present wondered at his age and courage, and 
whether there was so much haste for the arrest of an old man of such a kind. 
Therefore he ordered food and drink to be set before them at that hour, whatever 
they should wish, and he asked them to give him an hour to pray without 
hindrance. 3 To this they assented, and he stood and prayed -- thus filled with 
the grace of God -- so that for two hours he could not be silent, and those who 
listened were astounded, and many repented that they had come against such a 
venerable old man. 


1 'paraskeun' is literally Preparation (i.e. 
for the Sabbath) and has always been used in the Greek Church for Friday. 

2 "robber" is the traditional translation: 
but "brigand" is nearer the real meaning.


CHAPTER 8 
His arrival in Smyrna -- And in the arena 
1 Now when he had at last finished his prayer, after remembering all who had 
ever even come his way, both small and great, high and low, and the whole 
Catholic Church throughout the world, the hour came for departure, and they set 
him on an ass, and led him into the city, on a "great Sabbath day." 2 And the police 
captain Herod and his father Niketas met him and removed him into their 
carriage, and sat by his side trying to persuade him and saying: "But what harm 
is it to say, `Lord Caesar,' and to offer sacrifice, and so forth, and to be 
saved?" But he at first did not answer them, but when they continued he said: "I 
am not going to do what you counsel me." 3 And they gave up the attempt to 
persuade him, and began to speak fiercely to him, and turned him out in such a 
hurry that in getting down from the carriage he scraped his shin; and without 
turning round, as though he had suffered nothing, he walked on promptly and 
quickly, and was taken to the arena, while the uproar in the arena was so great 
that no one could even be heard. 


1 This may have been the Jewish feast Purim, 
which, according to tradition, celebrates the triumph of the Jews in Persia over 
their enemies, as is related in the book of Esther, or else the Sabbath in the 
Passover week (see introduction).


CHAPTER 9 
Polycarp's examination 
1 Now when Polycarp entered into the arena there came a voice from heaven: 
"Be strong, Polycarp, and play the man." And no one saw the speaker, but our 
friends who were there heard the voice. And next he was brought forward, and 
there was a great uproar of those who heard that Polycarp had been arrested. 2 
Therefore when he was brought forward the Pro-Consul asked him if he were 
Polycarp, and when he admitted it he tried to persuade him to deny, saying: 
"Respect your age," and so forth, as they are accustomed to say: "Swear by the 
genius of Caesar, repent, say: `Away with the Atheists'"; but Polycarp, with a 
stern countenance looked on all the crowd of lawless heathen in the arena, and 
waving his hand at them, he groaned and looked up to heaven and said: "Away with 
the Atheists." 3 But when the Pro-Consul pressed him and said: "Take the oath 
and I let you go, revile Christ," Polycarp said: "For eighty and six 
years have 
I been his servant, and he has done me no wrong, and how can I blaspheme my 
King who 
saved me?" 


1 He was therefore probably a Christian born, 
unless we ascribe to him a quite improbable age.
2 `basileus' represents `imperator' not 
`rex,' and though it can hardly be translated `Emperor,' the antithesis to 
Caesar is clearly implied.


CHAPTER 10 
1 But when he persisted again, and said: "Swear by the genius of Caesar," he 
answered him: "If you vainly suppose that I will swear by the genius of Caesar, 
as you say, and pretend that you are ignorant who I am, listen plainly: I am a 
Christian. And if you wish to learn the doctrine of Christianity fix a day and 
listen." 2 The Pro-Consul said: "Persuade the people." And Polycarp said: "You I 
should have held worthy of discussion, for we have been taught to render honour, 
as is meet, if it hurt us not, to princes and authorities appointed by God. But 
as for those, I do not count them worthy that a defence should be made to them." 



CHAPTER 11 
The Pro-consul's threats 
1 And the Pro-Consul said: "I have wild beasts. I will deliver you to them, 
unless you repent." And he said: "Call for them, for repentance from better to 
worse is not allowed us; but it is good to change from evil to righteousness." 2 
And he said again to him: "I will cause you to be consumed by fire, if you 
despise the beasts, unless you repent." But Polycarp said: "You threaten with 
the fire that burns for a time, and is quickly quenched, for you do not know the 
fire which awaits the wicked in the judgment to come and in everlasting 
punishment. But why are you waiting? Come, do what you will." 


CHAPTER 12 
The anger of the Jews 
1 And with these and many other words he was filled with courage and joy, and 
his face was full of grace so that it not only did not fall with trouble at the 
things said to him, but that the Pro-Consul, on the other hand, was astounded 
and sent his herald into the midst of the arena to announce three times: 
"Polycarp has confessed that he is a Christian." 2 When this had been said by 
the herald, all the multitude of heathen and Jews living in Smyrna cried out 
with uncontrollable wrath and a loud shout: "This is the teacher of Asia, the 
father of the Christians, the destroyer of our Gods, who teaches many neither to 
offer sacrifice nor to worship." And when they said this, they cried out and 
asked Philip the Asiarch to let loose a lion on Polycarp. But he said he could 
not legally do this, since he had closed the Sports. 3 Then they found 
it good to cry out with one mind that he should burn Polycarp alive, for the 
vision which had appeared to him on his pillow must be fulfilled, when he saw it 
burning, while he was praying, and he turned and said prophetically to those of 
the faithful who were with him, "I must be burnt alive." 


1 Literally `hunting,' the Latin 
`venatio.'


CHAPTER 13 
The preparations for burning him 
1 These things then happened with so great speed, quicker than it takes to 
tell, and the crowd came together immediately, and prepared wood and faggots 
from the work-shops and baths and the Jews were extremely zealous, as is their 
custom, in assisting at this. 2 Now when the fire was ready he put off all his 
clothes, and loosened his girdle and tried also to take off his shoes, though he 
did not do this before, because each of the faithful was always zealous, which 
of them might the more quickly touch his flesh. For he had been treated with all 
respect because of his noble life, even before his 
martyrdom. 3 Immediately therefore, he was fastened to the instruments which had 
been prepared for the fire, but when they were going to nail him as well he 
said: "Leave me thus, for He who gives me power to endure the fire, will grant 
me to remain in the flames unmoved even without the security you will give by 
the nails." 


1 Literally "citizenship," but it is used in 
a special sense of Christian life.


CHAPTER 14 
His last prayers 
1 So they did not nail him, but bound him, and he put his hands behind him 
and was bound, as a noble ram out of a great flock, for an oblation, a whole 
burnt offering made ready and acceptable to God; and he looked up to heaven and 
said: "O Lord God Almighty, Father of thy beloved and blessed Child, Jesus Christ, 
through Whom we have received full knowledge of thee, the God of Angels and 
powers, and of all creation, and of the whole family of the righteous, who live 
before thee! 2 I bless thee, that Thou hast granted me this day and hour, that I 
may share, among the number of the martyrs, in the cup of thy Christ, for the 
Resurrection to everlasting life, both of soul and body in the immortality of 
the Holy Spirit. And may I, to-day, be received among them before Thee, as a 
rich and acceptable sacrifice, as Thou, the God who lies not and is truth, hast 
prepared beforehand, and shown forth, and fulfilled. 3 For this reason I also 
praise Thee for all things, I bless Thee, I glorify Thee through the everlasting 
and heavenly high Priest, Jesus Christ, thy beloved Child, through whom be glory 
to Thee with him and the Holy Spirit, both now and for the ages that are to 
come, Amen." 


1 This use of 'pais' as applied to Jesus is 
only found here, in Didache 9:2, 1 Clement 59:2 (the "Prayer") and in Acts 3:13, 
26:4, 27:30. Here it is clearly "Child": in Acts it may mean "Servant" with 
reference to Isaiah 53, etc.


CHAPTER 15 
The fire is lighted 
1 Now when he had uttered his Amen and finished his prayer, the men in charge 
of the fire lit it, and a great flame blazed up and we, to whom it was given to 
see, saw a marvel. And we have been preserved to report to others what befell. 2 
For the fire made the likeness of a room, like the sail of a vessel filled with 
wind, and surrounded the body of the martyr as with a wall, and he was within it 
not as burning flesh, but as bread that is being baked, or as gold and silver 
being refined in a furnace. And we perceived such a fragrant smell as the scent 
of incense or other costly spices. 


CHAPTER 16 
Polycarp's death 
1 At length the lawless men, seeing that his body could not be consumed by 
the fire, commanded an executioner to go up and stab him with a dagger, and when 
he did this, there came out a dove, and much blood, 
so that the fire was quenched and all the crowd marvelled that there was such a 
difference between the unbelievers and the elect. 2 And of the elect was he 
indeed one, the wonderful martyr, Polycarp, who in our days was an apostolic and 
prophetic teacher, bishop of the Catholic Church in Smyrna. 
For every word which he uttered from his mouth both was fulfilled and will be 
fulfilled. 


1 This no doubt points to the belief that 
the spirit appears at death in the form of a bird. Cf. Prudentius 'Peristeph. 
Hymn.' 3:33 (other references are also given by Lightfoot).
2 If the reading "Catholic" be right, it is 
the earliest clear example of this use of the word (but cf. 'Ignatius to the 
Smyrnaeans' 8:2).


CHAPTER 17 
The treatment of the corpse 
1 But the jealous and envious evil one who resists the family of the 
righteous, when he saw the greatness of his martyrdom, and his blameless career 
from the beginning, and that he was crowned with the crown of immortality, and 
had carried off the unspeakable prize, took care that not even his poor body 
should be taken away by us, though many desired to do so, and to have fellowship 
with his holy flesh. 2 Therefore he put forward Niketas, the father of Herod, 
and the brother of Alce, to ask the Governor not to give his body, "Lest," he 
said, "they leave the crucified one and begin to worship this man." And they 
said this owing to the suggestions and pressure of the Jews, who also watched 
when we were going to take it from the fire, for they do not know that we shall 
not ever be able either to abandon Christ, who suffered for the salvation of 
those who are being saved in the whole world, the innocent for sinners, or to 
worship any other. 3 For him we worship as the Son of God, but the martyrs we 
love as disciples and imitators of the Lord; and rightly, because of their 
unsurpassable affection toward their own King and Teacher. God grant that we too 
may be their companions and fellow-disciples. 


CHAPTER 18 
The Christians take the ashes 
1 When therefore the centurion saw the contentiousness caused by the Jews, he 
put the body in the midst, as was their custom, and burnt it. 2 Thus we, at 
last, took up his bones, more precious than precious stones, and finer than 
gold, and put them where it was meet. 3 There the Lord will permit us to come 
together according to our power in gladness and joy, and celebrate the birthday 
of his martyrdom, both in memory of those who have already contested, and for the 
practice and training of those whose fate it shall be. 


1 This is almost a technical term for 
martyrdom, cf. Ignatius's epistle to Polycarp 1:3.


CHAPTER 19 
Conclusion 
1 Such was the lot of the blessed Polycarp, who though he was, together with 
those from Philadelphia, the twelfth martyr in Smyrna, is alone especially 
remembered by all, so that he is spoken of in every place, even by the heathen. 
He was not only a famous teacher, but also a notable martyr, whose martyrdom all 
desire to imitate, for it followed the Gospel of Christ. 2 By his endurance he 
overcame the unrighteous ruler, and thus gained the crown of immortality, and he 
is glorifying God and the Almighty Father, rejoicing with the Apostles and all 
the righteous, and he is blessing our Lord Jesus Christ, the Saviour of our 
souls, and Governor of our bodies, and the Shepherd of the Catholic Church 
throughout the world. 


CHAPTER 20 
1 You, indeed, asked that the events should be explained to you at length, 
but we have for the present explained them in summary by our brother 
Marcion; 
therefore when you have heard these things, send the letter to the brethren 
further on, that they also may glorify the Lord, who takes his chosen ones from 
his own servants. 2 And to him who is able to bring us all in his grace and 
bounty, to his heavenly kingdom, by his only begotten Child, Jesus Christ, be 
glory, honour, might, and majesty for ever. Greet all the saints. Those who are 
with us, and Evarestus, who wrote the letter, with his whole house, greet you. 


1 Not of course to be identified with the 
famous heretic. If Marcianus be the right text, it is noteworthy that Irenaeus 
sent his treatise on "The Apostolic Preaching" to a certain Marcianus. But this 
was probably forty years later than Polycarp's death.


CHAPTER 21 
The date 
1 Now the blessed Polycarp was martyred on the second day of the first half 
of the month of Xanthicus, the seventh day before the kalends of March, a great sabbath, 
at the eighth hour. And he was arrested by Herod, when Philip of Tralles was 
High Priest, when Statius Quadratus was Pro-Consul, but Jesus Christ was 
reigning 
for ever, to whom be glory, honour, majesty and an eternal throne, from 
generation to generation, Amen. 


1 i.e. Feb. 23.
2 This phrase is pointedly inserted instead 
of a reference to the reigning Emperor. 


CHAPTER 22 
Notes by a later scribe 
1 We bid you God-speed, brethren, who walk according to the Gospel, in the 
word of Jesus Christ (with whom be glory to God and the Father and the Holy 
Spirit), for the salvation of the Holy Elect, even as the blessed Polycarp 
suffered martyrdom, in whose footsteps may it be granted us to be found in the 
Kingdom of Jesus Christ. 2 Gaius copied this from the writing of Irenaeus, a 
disciple of Polycarp, and he lived with Irenaeus, and I, Socrates, wrote it out 
in Corinth, from the copies of Gaius. Grace be with you all. 3 And I, again, 
Pionius, wrote it out from the former writings, after searching for it, because 
the blessed Polycarp showed it me in a vision, as I will explain in what 
follows,
and I gathered it together when it was almost worn out by age, that the Lord 
Jesus Christ may also gather me together with his elect into his heavenly 
kingdom, to whom be glory with the Father and the Holy Spirit, for ever and 
ever, Amen. 


1 No explanation is given: probably because 
the "Pionian" text was part of a larger "Acts of Polycarp." Either these Acts 
have entirely disappeared except for this letter of the church of Smyrna, or a 
fragment preserved in 'Codex Parisinus' may perhaps belong to them. 


CHAPTER 23 
ANOTHER CONCLUSION FROM THE MOSCOW MANUSCRIPT. 
1 We bid you God-speed, brethren, who walk according to the Gospel, in the 
word of Jesus Christ (with whom be glory to God and the Father and the Holy 
Spirit), for the salvation of the Holy Elect, even as the blessed Polycarp 
suffered martyrdom, in whose footsteps may it be granted us to be found in the 
Kingdom of Jesus Christ. [same as 22:1]
2 This account Gaius copied from the writings of Irenaeus, and he also had 
lived with Irenaeus, who was a disciple of the holy Polycarp. 3 For this 
Irenaeus, at the time of the martyrdom of the bishop Polycarp, was in Rome, and 
taught many, and many most excellent and correct writings are extant, in which 
he mentions Polycarp, saying that he 
had been his pupil, and he ably refuted every heresy, and he also handed on the 
ecclesiastical and catholic rule, as he had received it from the saint. 4 And he 
also says this that once Marcion, from whom come 
the so-called Marcionites, met the holy Polycarp and said: "Recognise us, 
Polycarp," and he said to Marcion, "I do recognise you, I recognise the 
first-born of Satan." 5 And this is also recorded in the writings of Irenaeus, 
that at the day and hour when Polycarp suffered in Smyrna, Irenaeus, who was in 
the city of Rome, heard a voice like a trumpet saying: "Polycarp has suffered 
martyrdom." 
6 From these papers of Irenaeus, then, as was stated above, Gaius made a 
copy, and Isocrates used in Corinth the copy of Gaius. 
7 And again I, Pionius, wrote from the copies of Isocrates, according to the 
revelation of the holy Polycarp, after searching for them, and gathering them 
together when they were almost worn out from age, that the Lord Jesus Christ may 
also gather me into his Heavenly Kingdom together with his Elect. To him be 
glory, with the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, for ever and ever, Amen. 



1 Irenaeus 'Haer.' 3/3:4, 'Ep. ad Florinum' 
(in Eusebius 'H.E.' 5/20) and 'Ep. ad Victorem' (in Eusebius 'H.E.' 5/24). The 
story of Marcion is in 'Haer.'3/3:4.
2 Marcion was the most famous heretic of the 
second century. He was a native of Pontus and afterwards came to Rome. The main 
points of his teaching were the rejection of the Old Testament and a distinction 
between the Supreme God of goodness and an inferior God of justice, who was the 
Creator, and the God of the Jews. He regarded Christ as the messenger of the 
Supreme God.


