
The Martyrdom of Polycarp












The Encyclical Epistle of the Church at Smyrna, Concerning the Martyrdom of 
St. Polycarp
The Church of God which sojourns at Smyrna, to the Church of God sojourning 
in Philomelium, and to all the congregations of the Holy and Catholic Church in 
every place: Mercy, peace, and love from God the Father, and our Lord Jesus 
Christ, be multiplied. 
CHAPTER I -- SUBJECT OF WHICH WE WRITE. 
We have written to you, brethren, as to what relates to the martyrs, and 
especially to the blessed Polycarp, who put an end to the persecution, having, 
as it were, set a seal upon it by his martyrdom. For almost all the events that 
happened previously [to this one], took place that the Lord might show us from 
above a martyrdom becoming the Gospel. For he waited to be delivered up, even as 
the Lord had done, that we also might become his followers, while we look not 
merely at what concerns ourselves but have regard also to our neighbours. For it 
is the part of a true and well-founded love, not only to wish one's self to be 
saved, but also all the brethren. 
CHAPTER II -- THE WONDERFUL CONSTANCY OF THE MARTYRS. 
All the martyrdoms, then, were blessed and noble which took place according 
to the will of God. For it becomes us who profess greater piety than others, to 
ascribe the authority over all things to God. And truly, who can fail to admire 
their nobleness of mind, and their patience, with that love towards their Lord 
which they displayed?--who, when they were so torn with scourges, that the frame 
of their bodies, even to the very inward veins and arteries, was laid open, 
still patiently endured, while even those that stood by pitied and bewailed 
them. But they reached such a pitch of magnanimity, that not one of them let a 
sigh or a groan escape them; thus proving to us all that those holy martyrs of 
Christ, at the very time when they suffered such torments, were absent from the 
body, or rather, that the Lord then stood by them, and communed with them. And, 
looking to the grace of Christ, they despised all the torments of this world, 
redeeming themselves from eternal punishment by [the suffering of] a single 
hour. For this reason the fire of their savage executioners appeared cool to 
them. For they kept before their view escape from that fire which is eternal and 
never shall be quenched, and looked forward with the eyes of their heart to 
those good things which are laid up for such as endure; things "which ear hath 
not heard, nor eye seen, neither have entered into the heart of man," but were 
revealed by the Lord to them, inasmuch as they were no longer men, but had 
already become angels. And, in like manner, those who were condemned to the wild 
beasts endured dreadful tortures, being stretched out upon beds full of spikes, 
and subjected to various other kinds of torments, in order that, if it were 
possible, the tyrant might, by their lingering tortures, lead them to a denial 
[of Christ]. 
CHAPTER III -- THE CONSTANCY OF GERMANICUS. THE DEATH OF POLYCARP IS
DEMANDED. 
For the devil did indeed invent many things against them; but thanks be to 
God, he could not prevail over all. For the most noble Germanicus strengthened 
the timidity of others by his own patience, and fought heroically with the wild 
beasts. For, when the proconsul sought to persuade him, and urged him to take 
pity upon his age, he attracted the wild beast towards himself, and provoked it, 
being desirous to escape all the more quickly from an unrighteous and impious 
world. But upon this the whole multitude, marvelling at the nobility of mind 
displayed by the devout and godly race of Christians, cried out, "Away with the 
Atheists; let Polycarp be sought out !" 
CHAPTER IV -- QUINTUS THE APOSTATE. 
Now one named Quintus, a Phrygian, who was but lately come from Phrygia, when 
he saw the wild beasts, became afraid. This was the man who forced himself and 
some others to come forward voluntarily [for trial]. Him the proconsul, after 
many entreaties, persuaded to swear and to offer sacrifice. Wherefore, brethren, 
we do not commend those who give themselves up [to suffering], seeing the Gospel 
does not teach so to do. 
CHAPTER V, --THE DEPARTURE AND VISION OF POLYCARP. 
But the most admirable Polycarp, when he first heard [that he was sought 
for], was in no measure disturbed, but resolved to continue in the city. 
However, in deference to the wish of many, he was persuaded to leave it. He 
departed, therefore, to a country house not far distant from the city. There he 
stayed with a few [friends], engaged in nothing else night and day than praying 
for all men, and for the Churches throughout the world, according to his usual 
custom. And while he was praying, a vision presented itself to him three days 
before he was taken; and, behold, the pillow under his head seemed to him on 
fire. Upon this, turning to those that were with him, he said to them 
prophetically," I must be burnt alive." 
CHAPTER VI -- POLYCARP IS BETRAYED BY A SERVANT. 
And when those who sought for him were at hand, he departed to another 
dwelling, whither his pursuers immediately came after him. And when they found 
him not, they seized upon two youths [that were there], one of whom, being 
subjected to torture, confessed. It was thus impossible that he should continue 
hid, since those that betrayed him were of his own household. The Irenarch then 
(whose office is the same as that of the Cleronomus), by name Herod, hastened to 
bring him into the stadium. [This all happened] that he might fulfil his special 
lot, being made a partaker of Christ, and that they who betrayed him might 
undergo the punishment of Judas himself. 
CHAPTER VII -- POLYCARP IS FOUND BY HIS PURSUERS. 
His pursuers then, along with horsemen, and taking the youth with them, went 
forth at supper-time on the day of the preparation? with their usual weapons, as 
if going out against a robber. And being come about evening [to the place where 
he was], they found him lying down in the upper room of a certain little house, 
from which he might have escaped into another place; but he refused, saying, 
"The will of God be done." So when he heard that they were come, he went down 
and spake with them. And as those that were present marvelled at his age and 
constancy, some of them said. "Was so much effort made to capture such a 
venerable man? Immediately then, in that very hour, he ordered that something to 
eat and drink should be set before them, as much indeed as they cared for, while 
he besought them to allow him an hour to pray without disturbance. And on their 
giving him leave, he stood and prayed, being full of the grace of God, so that 
he could not cease for two full hours, to the astonishment of them that heard 
him, insomuch that many began to repent that they had come forth against so 
godly and venerable an old man. 
CHAPTER VIII -- POLYCARP IS BROUGHT INTO THE CITY. 
Now, as soon as he had ceased praying, having made mention of all that had at 
any time come in contact with him, both small and great, illustrious and 
obscure, as well as the whole Catholic Church throughout the world, the time of 
his departure having arrived, they set him upon an ass, and conducted him into 
the city, the day being that of the great Sabbath. And the Irenarch Herod, 
accompanied by his father Nicetes (both riding in a chariot), met him, and 
taking him up into the chariot, they seated themselves beside him, and 
endeavoured to persuade him, saying, "What harm is there in saying, Lord Caesar, 
and in sacrificing, with the other ceremonies observed on such occasions, and so 
make sure of safety?" But he at first gave them no answer; and when they 
continued to urge him, he said, "I shall not do as you advise me." So they, 
having no hope of persuading him, began to speak bitter words unto him, and cast 
him with violence out of the chariot, insomuch that, in getting down from the 
carriage, he dislocated his leg [by the fall]. But without being disturbed, and 
as if suffering nothing, he went eagerly forward with all haste, and was 
conducted to the stadium, where the tumult was so great, that there was no 
possibility of being heard. 
CHAPTER IX -- POLYCARP REFUSES TO REVILE CHRIST. 
Now, as Polycarp was entering into the stadium, there came to him a voice 
from heaven, saying, "Be strong, and show thyself a man, O Polycarp !" No one 
saw who it was that spoke to him; but those of our brethren who were present 
heard the voice. And as he was brought forward, the tumult became great when 
they heard that Polycarp was taken. And when he came near, the proconsul asked 
him whether he was Polycarp. On his confessing that he was, [the proconsul] 
sought to persuade him to deny [Christ], saying, "Have respect to thy old age," 
and other similar things, according to their custom, [such as]," Swear by the 
fortune of Caesar; repent, and say, Away with the Atheists." But Polycarp, 
gazing with a stern countenance on all the multitude of the wicked heathen then 
in the stadium, and waving his hand towards them, while with groans he looked up 
to heaven, said, "Away with the Atheists." Then, the proconsul urging him, and 
saying, "Swear, and I will set thee at liberty, reproach Christ;" Polycarp 
declared, "Eighty and six years have I served Him, and He never did me any 
injury: how then can I blaspheme my King and my Saviour?" 
CHAPTER X -- POLYCARP CONFESSES HIMSELF A CHRISTIAN. 
And when the proconsul yet again pressed him, and said, "Swear by the fortune 
of Caesar," he answered, "Since thou art vainly urgent that, as thou sayest, I 
should swear by the fortune of Caesar, and pretendest not to know who and what I 
am, hear me declare with boldness, I am a Christian. And if you wish to learn 
what the doctrines of Christianity are, appoint me a day, and thou shalt hear 
them." The proconsul replied, "Persuade the people." But Polycarp said, "To thee 
I have thought it right to offer an account [of my faith]; for we are taught to 
give all due honour (which entails no injury upon ourselves) to the powers and 
authorities which are ordained of God. But as for these, I do not deem them 
worthy of receiving any account from me." 
CHAPTER XI -- NO THREATS HAVE ANY EFFECT ON POLYCARP. 
The proconsul then said to him, "I have wild beasts at hand; to these will I 
cast thee, except thou repent." But he answered, "Call them then, for we are not 
accustomed to repent of what is good in order to adopt that which is evil; and 
it is well for me to be changed from what is evil to what is righteous." But 
again the proconsul said to him, "I will cause thee to be consumed by fire, 
seeing thou despisest the wild beasts, if thou wilt not repent." But Polycarp 
said, "Thou threatenest me with fire which burneth for an hour, and after a 
little is extinguished, but art ignorant of the fire of the coming judgment and 
of eternal punishment, reserved for the ungodly. But why tarriest thou? Bring 
forth what thou wilt." 
CHAPTER XII -- POLYCARP IS SENTENCED TO BE BURNED. 
While he spoke these and many other like things, he was filled with 
confidence and joy, and his countenance was full of grace, so that not merely 
did it not fall as if troubled by the things said to him, but, on the contrary, 
the proconsul was astonished, and sent his herald to proclaim in the midst of 
the stadium thrice, "Polycarp has confessed that he is a Christian." This 
proclamation having been made by the herald, the whole multitude both of the 
heathen and Jews, who dwelt at Smyrna, cried out with uncontrollable fury, and 
in a loud voice, "This is the teacher of Asia, the father of the Christians, and 
the overthrower of our gods, he who has been teaching many not to sacrifice, or 
to worship the gods." Speaking thus, they cried out, and besought Philip the 
Asiarch to let loose a lion upon Polycarp. But Philip answered that it was not 
lawful for him to do so, seeing the shows of wild beasts were already finished. 
Then it seemed good to them to cry out with one consent, that Polycarp should be 
burnt alive. For thus it behooved the vision which was revealed to him in regard 
to his pillow to be fulfilled, when, seeing it on fire as he was praying, he 
turned about and said prophetically to the faithful that were with him," I must 
be burnt alive." 
CHAPTER XIII -- THE FUNERAL PILE IS ERECTED, 
This, then, was carried into effect with greater speed than it was spoken, 
the multitudes immediately gathering together wood and fagots out of the shops 
and baths; the Jews especially, according to custom, eagerly assisting them in 
it. And when the funeral pile was ready, Polycarp, laying aside all his 
garments, and loosing his girdle, sought also to take off his sandals,--a thing 
he was not accustomed to do, inasmuch as every one of the faithful was always 
eager who should first touch his skin. For, on account of his holy life, he was, 
even before his martyrdom, adorned with every kind of good. Immediately then 
they surrounded him with those substances which had been prepared for the 
funeral pile. But when they were about also to fix him with nails, he said, 
"Leave me as I am; for He that giveth me strength to endure the fire, will also 
enable me, without your securing me by nails, to remain without moving in the 
pile." 
CHAPTER XIV -- THE PRAYER OF POLYCARP. 
They did not nail him then, but simply bound him. And he, placing his hands 
behind him, and being bound like a distinguished ram [taken] out of a great 
flock for sacrifice, and prepared to be an acceptable burnt-offering unto God, 
looked up to heaven, and said, "O Lord God Almighty, the Father of thy beloved 
and blessed Son Jesus Christ, by whom we have received the knowledge of Thee, 
the God of angels and powers, and of every creature, and of the whole race of 
the righteous who live before thee, I give Thee thanks that Thou hast counted 
me, worthy of this day and this hour, that I should have a part in the number of 
Thy martyrs, in the cup of thy Christ, to the resurrection of eternal life, both 
of soul and body, through the incorruption [imparted] by the Holy Ghost. Among 
whom may I be accepted this day before Thee as a fat and acceptable sacrifice, 
according as Thou, the ever-truthful God, hast fore-ordained, hast revealed 
beforehand to me, and now hast fulfilled. Wherefore also I praise Thee for all 
things, I bless Thee, I glorify Thee, along with the everlasting and heavenly 
Jesus Christ, Thy beloved Son, with whom, to Thee, and the Holy Ghost, be glory 
both now and to all coming ages. Amen." 
CHAPTER XV -- POLYCARP IS NOT INJURED BY THE FIRE. 
When he had pronounced this amen, and so finished his prayer, those who were 
appointed for the purpose kindled the fire. And as the flame blazed forth in 
great fury, we, to whom it was given to witness it, beheld a great miracle, and 
have been preserved that we might report to others what then took place. For the 
fire, shaping itself into the form of an arch, like the sail of a ship when 
filled with the wind, encompassed as by a circle the body of the martyr. And he 
appeared within not like flesh which is burnt, but as bread that is baked, or as 
gold and silver glowing in a furnace. Moreover, we perceived such a sweet odour 
[coming from the pile], as if frankincense or some such precious spices had been 
smoking there. 
CHAPTER XVI -- POLYCARP IS PIERCED BY A DAGGER. 
At length, when those wicked men perceived that his body could not be 
consumed by the fire, they commanded an executioner to go near and pierce him 
through with a dagger. And on his doing this, there came forth a dove, and a 
great quantity of blood, so that the fire was extinguished; and all the people 
wondered that there should be such a difference between the unbelievers and the 
elect, of whom this most admirable Polycarp was one, having in our own times 
been an apostolic and prophetic teacher, and bishop of the Catholic Church which 
is in Smyrna. For every word that went out of his mouth either has been or shall 
yet be accomplished. 
CHAPTER XVII -- THE CHRISTIANS ARE REFUSED POLYCARP'S BODY. 
But when the adversary of the race of the righteous, the envious, malicious, 
and wicked one, perceived the impressive nature of his martyrdom, and 
[considered] the blameless life he had led from the beginning, and how he was 
now crowned with the wreath of immortality, having beyond dispute received his 
reward, he did his utmost that not the least memorial of him should be taken 
away by us, although many desired to do this, and to become possessors of his 
holy flesh. For this end he suggested it to Nicetes, the father of Herod and 
brother of Alce, to go and entreat the governor not to give up his body to be 
buried, "lest," said he, "forsaking Him that was crucified, they begin to 
worship this one." This he said at the suggestion and urgent persuasion of the 
Jews, who also watched us, as we sought to take him out of the fire, being 
ignorant of this, that it is neither possible for us ever to forsake Christ, who 
suffered for the salvation of such as shall be saved throughout the whole world 
(the blameless one for sinners), nor to worship any other. For Him indeed, as 
being the Son of God, we adore; but the martyrs, as disciples and followers of 
the Lord, we worthily love on account of their extraordinary affection towards 
their own King and Master, of whom may we also be made companions and 
fellow-disciples! 
CHAPTER XVIII -- THE BODY OF POLYCARP IS BURNED. 
The centurion then, seeing the strife excited by the Jews, placed the body in 
the midst of the fire, and consumed it. Accordingly, we afterwards took up his 
bones, as being more precious than the most exquisite jewels, and more purified 
than gold, and deposited them in a fitting place, whither, being gathered 
together, as opportunity is allowed us, with joy and rejoicing, the Lord shall 
grant us to celebrate the anniversary of his martyrdom, both in memory of those 
who have already finished their course, and for the exercising and preparation 
of those yet to walk in their steps. 
CHAPTER XIX -- PRAISE OF THE MARTYR POLYCARP. 
This, then, is the account of the blessed Polycarp, who, being the twelfth 
that was martyred in Smyrna (reckoning those also of Philadelphia), yet occupies 
a place of his own in the memory of all men, insomuch that he is everywhere 
spoken of by the heathen themselves. He was not merely an illustrious teacher, 
but also a pre-eminent martyr, whose martyrdom all desire to imitate, as having 
been altogether consistent with the Gospel of Christ. For, having through 
patience overcome the unjust governor, and thus acquired the crown of 
immortality, he now, with the apostles and all the righteous[in heaven], 
rejoicingly glorifies God, even the Father, and blesses our Lord Jesus Christ, 
the Saviour of our souls, the Governor of our bodies, and the Shepherd of the 
Catholic Church throughout the world. 
CHAPTER XX -- THIS EPISTLE IS TO BE TRANSMITTED TO THE BRETHREN. 
Since, then, ye requested that we would at large make you acquainted with 
what really took place, we have for the present sent you this summary account 
through our brother Marcus. When, therefore, ye have yourselves read this 
Epistle, be pleased to send it to the brethren at a greater distance, that they 
also may glorify the Lord, who makes such choice of His own servants. To Him who 
is able to bring us all by His grace and goodness into his everlasting kingdom, 
through His only-begotten Son Jesus Christ, to Him be glory, and honour, and 
power, and majesty, for ever. Amen. Salute all the saints. They that are with us 
salute you, and Evarestus, who wrote this Epistle, with all his house. 
CHAPTER XXI -- THE DATE OF THE MARTYRDOM. 
Now, the blessed Polycarp suffered martyrdom on the second day of the month 
Xanthicus just begun, the seventh day before the Kalends of May, on the great 
Sabbath, at the eighth hour. He was taken by Herod, Philip the Trallian being 
high priest, Statius Quadratus being proconsul, but Jesus Christ being King for 
ever, to whom be glory, honour, majesty, and an everlasting throne, from 
generation to generation. Amen. 
CHAPTER XXII -- SALUTATION. 
We wish you, brethren, all happiness, while you walk according to the 
doctrine of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; with whom be glory to God the Father and 
the Holy Spirit, for the salvation of His holy elect, after whose example the 
blessed Polycarp suffered, following in whose steins may we too be found in the 
kingdom of Jesus Christ! 
These things Caius transcribed from the copy of Irenaeus (who was a disciple 
of Polycarp), having himself been intimate with Irenaeus. And I Socrates 
transcribed them at Corinth from the copy of Caius. Grace be with you all. 
And I again, Pionius, wrote them from the previously written copy, having 
carefully searched into them, and the blessed Polycarp having manifested them to 
me through a revelation, even as I shall show in what follows. I have collected 
these things, when they had almost faded away through the lapse of time, that 
the Lord Jesus Christ may also gather me along with His elect into His heavenly 
kingdom, to whom, with the Father and the Holy Spirit, be glory for ever and 
ever. Amen. 

