
The Martyrdom of Polycarp












THE MARTYRDOM OF SAINT POLYCARP, BISHOP OF SMYRNA 






Charles H. Hoole's 1885 translation 
CHAPTER 0
1 The church of God which sojourneth in Smyrna, to the church of God that 
sojourneth in Philomelia, and to all the settlements of the holy and Catholic 
Church in every place, mercy, peace, and love from God the Father and our Lord 
Jesus Christ be multiplied unto you. 

CHAPTER 1
1:1 We have written unto you, brethren, the things respecting those who were 
martyred, and concerning the blessed Polycarp, who made the persecution to 
cease, having as it were set his seal to it by his testimony. For almost all the 
things that went before happened in order that the Lord might show us from above 
the testimony that is according to the gospel; 
1:2 for he endured to be betrayed, even as did the Lord, that we might become 
imitators of him, not as considering the things that concern ourselves only, but 
also the things that concern our neighbours; for it belongeth to true and firm 
love not only to desire to be saved itself, but also that all the brethren 
should be saved. 

CHAPTER 2
2:1 Blessed, therefore, and noble are all the testimonies that happened 
according to the will of God, for it is right that we should be the more 
careful, and should ascribe unto God the authority over all things. 
2:2 For who would not admire their nobility and endurance and obedience? who, 
though they were torn with stripes so that the internal arrangement of their 
flesh became evident even as far as the veins and arteries within, endured it, 
so that even the bystanders compassionated them and bemoaned them; and that 
others even arrived at such a pitch of nobility that none of them would either 
sob or groan, showing all of us that in that hour the martyrs of Christ departed 
being tortured in the flesh, or rather that the Lord, standing by, associated 
himself with them. 
2:3 And applying themselves to the grace of Christ, they despised the torture 
of this world, purchasing by the endurance of a single hour remission from 
eternal punishment; and the fire of their harsh tormentors was cold to them, for 
they had before their eyes to escape the eternal and never-quenched fire; and 
with the eyes of their heart they looked up to the good things that are reserved 
for those that endure, which neither hath ear heard, nor eye seen, nor hath it 
entered into the heart of man; but which were shown by the Lord unto them, who 
were no longer men, but already angels. 
2:4 And in like manner they who had been condemned to the wild beasts endured 
dreadful punishments, lying upon beds of prickles, and punished with various 
other tortures, in order that, if it were possible, the tyrant might turn them 
by assiduous punishment to a denial of the faith. 

CHAPTER 3
3:1 For the devil contrived many things against them, but thanks be unto God, 
for he prevailed not against all. For the most noble Germanicus strengthened 
their cowardice through the patience that was in him, who also in a notable way 
fought against wild beasts. For when the proconsul would have persuaded him, 
charging him to have compassion on his youth, he drew upon himself the wild 
beast by force, wishing to be the sooner freed from their unjust and lawless 
life. 
3:2 From this, therefore, all the multitude, wondering at the nobleness of 
the God-loving and God-fearing race of Christians, called out, Away with the 
Atheists; let Polycarp be sought for. 


CHAPTER 4
4:1 But a certain man named Quintus, a Phrygian, who had newly come from 
Phrygia, when he saw the wild beasts, became afraid. This was he who constrained 
himself and others to come in of their own accord. This man, the proconsul, with 
much importunity, persuaded to swear and to sacrifice. On this account, 
brethren, we praise not them that give themselves up, since the gospel doth not 
so teach. 

CHAPTER 5
5:1 But the most admirable Polycarp at the first, when he heard these things, 
was not disturbed, but desired to remain in the city. But the majority persuaded 
him to withdraw secretly; and he departed secretly to a villa not far from the 
city, and remained there with a few men, doing no other thing either by night or 
day but pray concerning all men, and for the churches that are in the world, as 
was his custom; 
5:2 and as he prayed he fell into a trance three days before he was taken, 
and saw his pillow burning with fire, and he turned and said prophetically to 
those who were with him, I must be burned alive. 

CHAPTER 6
6:1 And when those who sought him continued in the pursuit, he departed unto 
another villa, and straightway they who sought him came up. And when they found 
him not, they apprehended two lads, of whom the one, when put to the torture, 
confessed. 
6:2 For it was impossible for him to escape their notice, since they who 
betrayed him were of his own household. For the Eirenarchus, which is the same 
office as Cleronomus, Herodes by name, hasted to bring him into the arena, that 
he indeed might fulfil his proper lot, by becoming a partaker of Christ, and 
that they who betrayed him might undergo the same punishment as Judas. 

CHAPTER 7
7:1 Having, therefore, with them the lad, on the day of the preparation, at 
the hour of dinner, there came out pursuers and horsemen, with their accustomed 
arms, as though going out against a thief. And having departed together late in 
the evening, they found him lying in a certain house, in an upper chamber. And 
he might have departed from thence unto another place, but was unwilling, 
saying, The will of the Lord be done. 
7:2 And when he heard that they were present, he descended and talked with 
them. And they who were present wondered at the vigour of his age and his 
soundness of body, and that they had had to use so much trouble to capture so 
old a man. He straightway commanded that meat and drink should be set before 
them at that hour, as much as they wished, and asked them to grant him an hour 
to pray without molestation. 
7:3 And when they suffered him, he stood and prayed, being full of the grace 
of God, so that he could not be silent for two hours, and they that heard him 
were astonished, and many repented that they had come against so divine an old 
man. 

CHAPTER 8
8:1 And when he had finished his prayer, having made mention of all who had 
at any time come into contact with him, both small and great, noble and ignoble, 
and of the whole Catholic Church throughout the world, when the hour of his 
departure had come, having seated him on an ass, they led him into the city, it 
being the great Sabbath. 
8:2 And the Eirenarch Herodes and his father Nicetes met him in a chariot, 
who, having transferred him into their car, seating themselves beside him, would 
have persuaded him, saying, What is the harm to say, Caesar, Caesar, and to 
sacrifice, and to do such like things, and thus to be saved? But he at the first 
did not answer them; but when they persisted, he said, I will not do that which 
ye advise me. 
8:3 But they, when they had failed to persuade him, said unto him dreadful 
words, and thrust him with such haste from the chariot that in descending from 
the car he grazed his shin. And paying no attention to it, as though he had 
suffered nothing, he proceeded zealously and with eagerness, being led to the 
arena, there being such a noise in the arena that no one could even be heard. 

CHAPTER 9
9:1 But to Polycarp, as he entered the arena, there came a voice from heaven, 
saying, Be strong, and play the man, O Polycarp. And the speaker no man saw; but 
the voice those of our people who were present heard. And when he was brought in 
there was a great tumult, when men heard that Polycarp was apprehended. 
9:2 Then, when he had been brought in, the proconsul asked him if he was 
Polycarp. And when he confessed, he would have persuaded him to deny, saying, 
Have respect unto thine age, and other things like these, as is their custom to 
say: Swear by the fortunes of Caesar; Repent; Say, Away with the Atheists. But 
Polycarp, when he had looked with a grave face at all the multitude of lawless 
heathen in the arena, having beckoned unto them with his hand, sighed, and 
looking up unto heaven, said, Away with the Atheists! 
9:3 And when the proconsul pressed him, and said, Swear, and I will release 
thee, revile Christ; Polycarp said, Eighty and six years have I served him, and 
in nothing hath he wronged me; and how, then, can I blaspheme my King, who saved 
me? 

CHAPTER 10
10:1 But when he again persisted, and said, Swear by the fortune of Caesar, 
he answered, If thou art vainly confident that I shall swear by the fortune of 
Caesar, as thou suggestest, and pretendest to be ignorant of me who I am, hear 
distinctly, I am a Christian. But if thou desirest to learn the scheme of 
Christianity, give me a day to speak, and hearken unto me. 
10:2 The proconsul said, Persuade the people. But Polycarp said, I have 
thought thee indeed worthy to receive explanation, for we have been taught to 
render such honour as is fitting, and as does not injure us, to the powers and 
authorities ordained by God; but those I consider not worthy that I should make 
my defence before them. 

CHAPTER 11
11:1 But the proconsul said unto him, I have wild beasts; I will deliver thee 
unto them, unless thou repentest. But he said, Call them, for repentance from 
the better to the worse is impossible for us; but it is a good thing to change 
from evil deeds to just ones. 
11:2 But he said again unto him, I will cause thee to be consumed by fire if 
thou despisest the wild beasts, unless thou repentest. But Polycarp said, Thou 
threatenest me with fire that burneth but for a season, and is soon quenched. 
For thou art ignorant of the fire of the judgment to come, and of the eternal 
punishment reserved for the wicked. But why delayest thou? Bring whatever thou 
wishest. 

CHAPTER 12
12:1 While he was saying these and more things, he was filled with courage 
and joy, and his face was filled with grace; so that he not only was not 
troubled and confused by the things said unto him, but, on the contrary, the 
proconsul was astonished, and sent his herald into the midst of the arena to 
proclaim a third time: Polycarp has confessed himself to be a Christian. 
12:2 When this had been said by the herald, the whole multitude, both of 
Gentiles and Jews, that inhabit Smyrna, with irrestrainable anger and a loud 
voice, called out, This is the teacher of impiety, the father of the Christians, 
the destroyer of your gods, who teacheth many neither to sacrifice nor to 
worship the gods. Saying these things, they shouted out, and asked the Asiarch 
Philip to let loose a lion at Polycarp. But Philip replied that it was not 
lawful for him to do so, since he had finished the exhibition of wild beasts. 
12:3 Then it seemed good unto them to shout with one voice that Polycarp 
should be burnt alive; for it was necessary that the vision that appeared unto 
him on his pillow should be fulfilled, when seeing it burning, he prayed, and 
said prophetically, turning to the faithful who were with him, I must be burnt 
alive. 

CHAPTER 13
13:1 These things, therefore, happened with so great rapidity, that they took 
less time than the narration, the multitude quickly collecting logs and 
brushwood from the workshops and baths, the Jews especially lending their 
services zealously for this purpose, as is their custom. 
13:2 But when the pyre was ready, having put off all his garments, and having 
loosed his girdle, he essayed to take off his shoes; not being in the habit of 
doing this previously, because each of the faithful used to strive which should 
be the first to touch his body, for, on account of his good conversation, he 
was, even before his martyrdom, adorned with every good gift. 
13:3 Straightway, therefore, there were put around him the implements 
prepared for the pyre. And when they were about besides to nail him to it, he 
said, Suffer me thus, for he who gave me to abide the fire will also allow me, 
without the security of your nails, to remain on the pyre without moving. 

CHAPTER 14
14:1 They, therefore, did not nail him, but bound him. But he, having placed 
his hands behind him, and being bound, like a notable ram appointed for offering 
out of a great flock, prepared as a whole burnt-offering acceptable unto God, 
having looked up unto heaven, said, O Lord God Almighty, Father of thy beloved 
and blessed Son Jesus Christ, through whom we have received our knowledge 
concerning thee, the God of angels and powers, and of the whole creation, and of 
all the race of the just who lived before thee, 
14:2 I thank thee that thou hast deemed me worthy of this day and hour, that 
I should have my portion in the number of the martyrs, in the cup of thy Christ, 
unto the resurrection of eternal life, both of the soul and body, in the 
incorruptibility of the Holy Spirit. Among these may I be received before thee 
this day as a rich and acceptable sacrifice, even as thou hast prepared and made 
manifest beforehand, and hast fulfilled, thou who art the unerring and true God. 

14:3 On this account, and concerning all things, I praise thee, I bless thee, 
I glorify thee, together with the eternal and heavenly Jesus Christ thy beloved 
Son, with whom to thee and the Holy Spirit be glory both now and for ever. Amen. 


CHAPTER 15
15:1 And when he had uttered the Amen, and had finished his prayer, the men 
who superintended the fire kindled it. And a great flame breaking out, we, to 
whom it was given to see, saw a great wonder; for to this end also were we 
preserved, that we might announce what happened to the rest of mankind. 
15:2 For the fire, assuming the form of a vault, like the sail of a vessel 
filled with the wind, defended the body of the martyr roundabout; and it was in 
the midst of the flame not like flesh burning, but like bread being baked, or 
like gold and silver glowing in the furnace. And we perceived such a 
sweet-smelling savour, as though from the breath of incense, or some other 
precious perfume. 

CHAPTER 16
16:1 At last these wicked men, perceiving that his body could not be consumed 
by the fire, commanded the slaughterer to come near and plunge in a sword. And 
when he had done this, there came out a dove and an abundance of blood, so that 
it quenched the fire, and all the multitude wondered that there was such a 
difference between the unbelievers and the elect. 
16:2 Of whom this most admirable martyr Polycarp was one, having been in our 
time an apostolic and prophetic teacher, and bishop of the Catholic church which 
is in Smyrna. For every word which he uttered from his mouth both hath been 
fulfilled, and shall be fulfilled. 

CHAPTER 17
17:1 But the evil one, who is the opponent and envier, who is the enemy to 
the race of men, beholding both the greatness of his testimony and his 
conversation blameless from the beginning, how he was crowned with a crown of 
immortality, and how he carried off a prize that could not be spoken against, 
contrived that not even a relic of him should be taken by us, though many 
desired to do this, and to communicate with his holy flesh. 
17:2 He suborned, therefore, Nicetes, the father of Herodes, and the brother 
of Alce, to make interest with the governor so as not to give his body to the 
tomb, Lest, said he, they abandon the crucified and begin to worship this man. 
And these things they said at the suggestion and instance of the Jews, who also 
kept watch when we were about to take the body from the fire, not knowing that 
we shall never be able to abandon Christ, who suffered for the salvation of the 
whole world of those who are saved, the blameless on behalf of sinners, nor to 
worship any one else. 
17:3 Him we adore as the Son of God; but the martyrs, as the disciples and 
imitators of the Lord, we love according to their deserts, on account of their 
incomparable love for their King and Teacher, with whom may it be our lot to be 
partners and fellow-disciples. 

CHAPTER 18
18:1 Therefore, the centurion, seeing the strife that had risen among the 
Jews, placed the body in the midst of the fire and burned it. 
18:2 Thus we, having afterwards taken up his bones, more valuable than 
precious stones, laid them where it was suitable. 
18:3 There, so far as is allowed us, when we are gathered together in 
exultation and joy, the Lord will enable us to celebrate the birthday of the 
martyrs, both for the memory of those who have contended, and for the exercise 
and preparation of those to come. 

CHAPTER 19
19:1 Such were the things that happened to the blessed Polycarp, who together 
with those from Philadelphia was the twelfth who suffered martyrdom in Smyrna; 
but he alone is held in memory by all, so that he is spoken of in every place 
even by the Gentiles; not only being a distinguished teacher, but also an 
eminent martyr, whose testimony we desire to imitate, since it happened 
according to the Gospel of Christ. 
19:2 For having overcome by patience the unjust governor, and so having 
received the crown of immortality, rejoicing together with the apostles and all 
the just, he glorifieth God and the Father, and blesseth our Lord Jesus Christ 
the Saviour of our souls, and the pilot of our bodies, and the shepherd of the 
Catholic Church throughout the world. 

CHAPTER 20
20:1 Ye therefore desired that the things that had happened should be shown 
unto you more at length; but we for the present have related them unto you 
briefly by means of our brother Marcus. Now do ye, when ye have read these 
things, send on the letter to the brethren who are further off, that they also 
may glorify the Lord, who is making a selection from among his own servants. 
20:2 To him who is able to bring us all in, by his grace and gift, into his 
eternal kingdom, through his only-begotten Son Jesus Christ; to him be the 
glory, honour, strength, majesty for ever. Amen. Salute all the saints. They who 
are with us salute you, and Evarestus who wrote these things, and all his house. 


CHAPTER 21
21:1 Now the blessed Polycarp was martyred on the second day of the month 
Xanthicus, on the twenty-fifth of April, on the great Sabbath, at the eighth 
hour. But he was apprehended by Herodes, when Philip of Tralles was high priest, 
Statius Quadratus being proconsul, and Jesus Christ king for ever, to whom be 
glory, honour, majesty, and eternal throne, from generation to generation. Amen. 



CHAPTER 22
22:1 We pray, brethren, that you may fare well, walking by the word of the 
gospel of Jesus Christ, with whom be glory to God and the Father, and the Holy 
Spirit, for the salvation of the holy elect, even as the blessed Polycarp hath 
born witness, in whose steps may we be found in the kingdom of Jesus Christ. 
22:2 These things have been transcribed by Gaius, from the manuscripts of 
Irenaeus, the disciple of Polycarp, who also was a fellow-citizen to Irenaeus. 
But I, Socrates, made a copy in Corinth from the copies of Gaius. Grace be with 
you all. 
22:3 But I, Pionius, afterwards copied them from the above written, having 
sought them out, after that the blessed Polycarp had made them manifest to me by 
a revelation, as I will show in what follows; having gathered them together, 
when they had already become almost obliterated by time, in order that the Lord 
Jesus Christ may gather me also together with his elect, unto his heavenly 
kingdom, to whom be glory with the Father and the Holy Spirit, world without 
end. Amen. 

