
The Gospel of Matthew












The Gospel According to Matthew 

1:1The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of 
David, the son of Abraham. 1:2Abraham became the father of Isaac. 
Isaac became the father of Jacob. Jacob became the father of Judah and his 
brothers. 1:3Judah became the father of Perez and 
Zerah by Tamar. Perez became the father of Hezron. Hezron became the father of 
Ram. 1:4Ram became the father of Amminadab. 
Amminadab became the father of Nahshon. Nahshon became the father of Salmon. 1:5Salmon became the father of Boaz by 
Rahab. Boaz became the father of Obed by Ruth. Obed became the father of Jesse. 
1:6Jesse became the father of David the 
king. David became the father of Solomon by her who had been the wife of Uriah. 
1:7Solomon became the father of Rehoboam. 
Rehoboam became the father of Abijah. Abijah became the father of Asa. 1:8Asa 
became the father of Jehoshaphat. Jehoshaphat became the father of Joram. Joram 
became the father of Uzziah. 1:9Uzziah became the father of Jotham. 
Jotham became the father of Ahaz. Ahaz became the father of Hezekiah. 1:10Hezekiah became the father of Manasseh. 
Manasseh became the father of Amon. Amon became the father of Josiah. 1:11Josiah became the father of Jechoniah 
and his brothers, at the time of the exile to Babylon. 1:12After the exile to 
Babylon, Jechoniah became the father of Shealtiel. Shealtiel became the father 
of Zerubbabel. 1:13Zerubbabel became the father of Abiud. 
Abiud became the father of Eliakim. Eliakim became the father of Azor. 1:14Azor became the father of Sadoc. Sadoc 
became the father of Achim. Achim became the father of Eliud. 1:15Eliud became the father of Eleazar. 
Eleazar became the father of Matthan. Matthan became the father of Jacob. 1:16Jacob became the father of Joseph, the 
husband of Mary, from whom was born Jesus, who is called 
Christ. 1:17So all the generations from Abraham to 
David are fourteen generations; from David to the exile to Babylon fourteen 
generations; and from the carrying away to Babylon to the Christ, fourteen 
generations. 
1:18Now the birth of Jesus Christ was like 
this; for after his mother, Mary, was engaged to Joseph, before they came 
together, she was found pregnant by the Holy Spirit. 1:19Joseph, her 
husband, being a righteous man, and not willing to make her a public example, 
intended to put her away secretly. 1:20But when he thought about these things, 
behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, "Joseph, son of 
David, don't be afraid to take to yourself Mary, your wife, for that which is 
conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. 1:21She shall bring forth a son. You shall 
call his name Jesus, for it is he who shall save his people from their sins." 
1:22Now all this has happened, that it 
might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying, 
 1:23"Behold, the virgin shall be with 
child,      And shall bring forth a son. 
 They shall call his name 
Immanuel;"      Which is, being interpreted, 
"God with us." 
1:24Joseph arose from his sleep, and did as 
the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took his wife to himself; 1:25and didn't know her sexually until she 
had brought forth her firstborn son. He named him Jesus. 
2:1Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of 
Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east 
came to Jerusalem, saying, 2:2"Where is he who is born King of the 
Jews? For we saw his star in the east, and have come to worship him." 2:3When 
Herod the king heard it, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. 2:4Gathering together all the chief priests 
and scribes of the people, he asked them where the Christ would be born. 2:5They 
said to him, "In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written through the prophet, 

 2:6'You Bethlehem, land of 
Judah,      Are in no way least among the 
princes of Judah: 
 For out of you shall come forth a 
governor,      Who shall shepherd my people, 
Israel.'" 
2:7Then Herod secretly called the wise men, 
and learned from them exactly what time the star appeared. 2:8He sent them to 
Bethlehem, and said, "Go and search diligently for the young child. When you 
have found him, bring me word, so that I also may come and worship him." 
2:9They, having heard the king, went their 
way; and behold, the star, which they saw in the east, went before them, until 
it came and stood over where the young child was. 2:10When they saw the 
star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy. 2:11They came into the 
house and saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and 
worshiped him. Opening their treasures, they offered to him gifts: gold, 
frankincense, and myrrh. 2:12Being warned in a dream that they 
shouldn't return to Herod, they went back to their own country another way. 
2:13Now when they had departed, behold, an 
angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, "Arise and take the 
young child and his mother, and flee into Egypt, and stay there until I tell 
you, for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him." 
2:14He arose and took the young child and 
his mother by night, and departed into Egypt, 2:15and was there until 
the death of Herod; that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord 
through the prophet, saying, "Out of Egypt I called my son." 
2:16Then Herod, when he saw that he was 
mocked by the wise men, was exceedingly angry, and sent out, and killed all the 
male children who were in Bethlehem and in all the surrounding countryside, from 
two years old and under, according to the exact time which he had learned from 
the wise men. 2:17Then that which was spoken by Jeremiah 
the prophet was fulfilled, saying, 
 2:18"A voice was heard in 
Ramah,      Lamentation, weeping and great 
mourning, 
 Rachel weeping for her 
children;      She wouldn't be 
comforted,      Because they are no more." 
2:19But when Herod was dead, behold, an 
angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying, 2:20"Arise and take the young child and his 
mother, and go into the land of Israel, for those who sought the young child's 
life are dead." 
2:21He arose and took the young child and 
his mother, and came into the land of Israel. 2:22But when he heard 
that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in the place of his father, Herod, he was 
afraid to go there. Being warned in a dream, he withdrew into the region of 
Galilee, 2:23and came and lived in a city called 
Nazareth; that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through the prophets: "He 
will be called a Nazarene." 
3:1In those days, John the Baptizer came, 
preaching in the wilderness of Judea, saying, 3:2"Repent, for the 
Kingdom of Heaven is at hand!" 3:3For this is he who was spoken of by 
Isaiah the prophet, saying, 
 "The voice of one crying in the 
wilderness,      Make ready the way of the 
Lord,      Make his paths straight." 
3:4Now John himself wore clothing made of 
camel's hair, with a leather belt around his waist. His food was locusts and 
wild honey. 3:5Then people from Jerusalem, all of 
Judea, and all the region around the Jordan went out to him. 3:6They were baptized 
by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins. 3:7But when he saw many 
of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for his baptism, he said to them, "You 
offspring of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? 3:8Therefore bring forth fruit worthy of 
repentance! 3:9Don't think to yourselves, 'We have 
Abraham for our father,' for I tell you that God is able to raise up children to 
Abraham from these stones. 
3:10"Even now the axe lies at the root of 
the trees. Therefore, every tree that doesn't bring forth good fruit is cut 
down, and cast into the fire. 3:11I indeed baptize you in water for 
repentance, but he who comes after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not 
worthy to carry. He will baptize you in the Holy Spirit.*
3:12His winnowing fork is in his hand, and 
he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing floor. He will gather his wheat into 
the barn, but the chaff he will burn up with unquenchable fire." 
3:13Then Jesus came from Galilee to the 
Jordan to John, to be baptized by him. 3:14But John would have hindered him, 
saying, "I need to be baptized by you, and you come to me?" 
3:15But Jesus, answering, said to him, 
"Allow it now, for this is the fitting way for us to fulfill 
all righteousness." Then he allowed him. 3:16Jesus, when he was 
baptized, went up directly from the water: and behold, the heavens were opened 
to him. He saw the Spirit of God descending as a dove, and coming on him. 3:17Behold, a voice out of the heavens 
said, "This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased." 
4:1Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into 
the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. 4:2When he had fasted 
forty days and forty nights, he was hungry afterward. 4:3The tempter came and 
said to him, "If you are the Son of God, command that these stones become 
bread." 
4:4But he answered, "It 
is written, 'Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds 
out of the mouth of God.'"
4:5Then the devil took him into the holy 
city. He set him on the pinnacle of the temple, 4:6and said to him, "If 
you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, 'He will give 
his angels charge concerning you.' and, 
 'On their hands they will bear you 
up,      So that you don't dash your foot 
against a stone.'" 
4:7Jesus said to him, "Again, it is written, 'You shall not test the Lord, your 
God.'"
4:8Again, the devil took him to an 
exceedingly high mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world, and 
their glory. 4:9He said to him, "I will give you all of 
these things, if you will fall down and worship me." 
4:10Then Jesus said to him, "Get 
behind me, Satan! For it is written, 'You shall worship the Lord your God, 
and him only shall you serve.'"
4:11Then the devil left him, and behold, 
angels came and ministered to him. 4:12Now when Jesus heard that John was 
delivered up, he withdrew into Galilee. 4:13Leaving Nazareth, he came and lived in 
Capernaum, which is by the sea, in the region of Zebulun and Naphtali, 4:14that it might be fulfilled which was 
spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying, 
 4:15"The land of Zebulun and the land of 
Naphtali,      Toward the sea, beyond the 
Jordan,      Galilee of the Gentiles, 
 4:16The people who sat in darkness saw a 
great light,      To those who sat in the 
region and shadow of death,      To them light 
has dawned." 
4:17From that time, Jesus began to preach, 
and to say, "Repent! For the Kingdom of Heaven is at 
hand."
4:18Walking by the sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers: 
Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew, his brother, casting a net into the sea; 
for they were fishermen. 4:19He said to them, "Come after me, and I will make you fishers for men."
4:20They immediately left their nets and 
followed him. 4:21Going on from there, he saw two other 
brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat with 
Zebedee their father, mending their nets. He called them. 4:22They immediately 
left the boat and their father, and followed him. 
4:23Jesus went about in all Galilee, 
teaching in their synagogues, preaching the Gospel of the Kingdom, and healing 
every disease and every sickness among the people. 4:24The report about 
him went out into all Syria. They brought to him all who were sick, afflicted 
with various diseases and torments, possessed with demons, epileptics, and 
paralytics; and he healed them. 4:25Great multitudes from Galilee, 
Decapolis, Jerusalem, Judea and from beyond the Jordan followed him. 
5:1Seeing the multitudes, he went up onto 
the mountain. When he had sat down, his disciples came to him. 5:2He 
opened his mouth and taught them, saying, 
 5:3"Blessed are the 
poor in spirit,      For theirs is the Kingdom 
of Heaven. 
 5:4Blessed are those 
who mourn,      For they shall be comforted. 
 5:5Blessed are the 
gentle,      For they shall inherit the earth. 

 5:6Blessed are those 
who hunger and thirst after 
righteousness,      For they shall be filled. 
 5:7Blessed are the 
merciful,      For they shall obtain mercy. 
 5:8Blessed are the pure 
in heart,      For they shall see God. 
 5:9Blessed are the 
peacemakers,      For they shall be called 
children of God. 
 5:10Blessed are those 
who have been persecuted for righteousness' 
sake,      For theirs is the Kingdom of 
Heaven. 
5:11"Blessed are you 
when people reproach you, persecute you, and say all kinds of evil against you 
falsely, for my sake. 5:12Rejoice, and be 
exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For that is how they 
persecuted the prophets who were before you. 
5:13"You are the salt 
of the earth, but if the salt has lost its flavor, with what will it be salted? 
It is then good for nothing, but to be cast out and trodden under the feet of 
men. 5:14You are the light 
of the world. A city located on a hill can't be hidden. 5:15Neither do you 
light a lamp, and put it under a measuring basket, but on a stand; and it shines 
to all who are in the house. 5:16Even so, let your 
light shine before men; that they may see your good works, and glorify your 
Father who is in heaven. 
5:17"Don't think that I 
came to destroy the law or the prophets. I didn't come to destroy, but to 
fulfill. 5:18For most assuredly, 
I tell you, until heaven and earth pass away, not even one smallest letter or one 
tiny pen stroke 
shall in any way pass away from the law, until all things are accomplished. 
5:19Whoever, therefore, 
shall break one of these least commandments, and teach others to do so, shall be 
called least in the Kingdom of Heaven; but whoever shall do and teach them shall 
be called great in the Kingdom of Heaven. 5:20For I tell you that unless your righteousness exceeds that of the 
scribes and Pharisees, there is no way you will enter into the Kingdom of 
Heaven. 
5:21"You have heard 
that it was said to the ancient ones, 'You shall not murder;' and 'Whoever shall 
murder shall be in danger of the judgment.' 5:22But I tell you, that everyone who is angry with his brother 
without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment; and whoever shall say to his 
brother, 'Raca!' 
shall be in danger of the council; and whoever shall say, 'You fool!' shall be 
in danger of the fire of Gehenna. 
5:23"If therefore you 
are offering your gift at the altar, and there remember that your brother has 
anything against you, 5:24leave your gift 
there before the altar, and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, 
and then come and offer your gift. 5:25Agree with your adversary quickly, while you are with him in the 
way; lest perhaps the prosecutor deliver you to the judge, and the judge deliver 
you to the officer, and you be cast into prison. 5:26Most assuredly I tell you, you shall by no means get out of there, 
until you have paid the last penny.
5:27"You have heard 
that it was said, * 'You shall not commit adultery;' 5:28but I tell you that everyone who gazes at a woman to lust after 
her has committed adultery with her already in his heart. 5:29If your right eye 
causes you to stumble, pluck it out and throw it away from you. For it is more 
profitable for you that one of your members should perish, than for your whole 
body to be cast into Gehenna. 5:30If your right hand 
causes you to stumble, cut it off, and throw it away from you: for it is 
profitable for you that one of your members should perish, and not your whole 
body be thrown into Gehenna. 
5:31"It was also said, 
'Whoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorce,' 
5:32but I tell you that 
whoever puts away his wife, except for the cause of sexual immorality, makes her 
an adulteress; and whoever marries her when she is put away commits adultery. 
5:33"Again you have 
heard that it was said to them of old time, 'You shall not make false vows, but 
shall perform to the Lord your vows,' 5:34but I tell you, don't swear at all: neither by heaven, for it is 
the throne of God; 5:35nor by the earth, 
for it is the footstool of his feet; nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the 
great King. 5:36Neither shall you 
swear by your head, for you can't make one hair white or black. 5:37But let your 'Yes' 
be 'Yes' and your 'No' be 'no.' Whatever is more than these is of the evil one. 
5:38"You have heard 
that it was said, 'An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.' 5:39But I tell you, 
don't resist him who is evil; but whoever strikes you on your right cheek, turn 
to him the other also. 5:40If anyone sues you 
to take away your coat, let him have your cloak also. 5:41Whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him two. 5:42Give to him who 
asks you, and don't turn away him who desires to borrow from you. 
5:43"You have heard 
that it was said, 'You shall love your neighbor, and hate your enemy.' 5:44But I tell you, 
love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and 
pray for those who mistreat you and persecute you, 5:45that you may be children of your Father who is in heaven. For he 
makes his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the just and 
the unjust. 5:46For if you love 
those who love you, what reward do you have? Don't even the tax collectors do 
the same? 5:47If you only greet 
your friends, what more do you do than others? Don't even the tax collectors do 
the same? 5:48Therefore you shall 
be perfect, just as your Father in heaven is perfect. 
6:1"Be careful that you 
don't do your charitable giving before men, to be seen by them, or else you have 
no reward from your Father who is in heaven. 6:2Therefore when you do merciful deeds, don't sound a trumpet before 
yourself, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they 
may get glory from men. Most assuredly I tell you, they have received their 
reward. 6:3But when you do 
merciful deeds, don't let your left hand know what your right hand does, 
6:4so that your 
merciful deeds may be in secret, then your Father who sees in secret will reward 
you openly. 
6:5"When you pray, you 
shall not be as the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the 
synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen by men. Most 
assuredly, I tell you, they have received their reward. 6:6But you, when you 
pray, enter into your inner chamber, and having shut your door, pray to your 
Father who is in secret, and your Father who sees in secret will reward you 
openly. 6:7In praying, don't 
use vain repetitions, as the Gentiles do; for they think that they will be heard 
for their much speaking. 6:8Therefore don't be 
like them, for your Father knows what things you need, before you ask him. 
6:9Pray like this: 'Our 
Father in heaven, may your name be kept holy. 6:10Let your Kingdom come. Let your will be done, as in heaven, so on 
earth. 6:11Give us today our 
daily bread. 6:12Forgive us our 
debts, as we also forgive our debtors. 6:13Bring us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. 
For yours is the Kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen.' 
6:14"For if you forgive 
men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. 6:15But if you don't 
forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. 
6:16"Moreover when you 
fast, don't be like the hypocrites, with sad faces. For they disfigure their 
faces, that they may be seen by men to be fasting. Most assuredly I tell you, 
they have received their reward. 6:17But you, when you 
fast, anoint your head, and wash your face; 6:18so that you are not seen by men to be fasting, but by your Father 
who is in secret, and your Father, who sees in secret, will reward you. 
6:19"Don't lay up 
treasures for yourselves on the earth, where moth and rust consume, and where 
thieves break through and steal; 6:20but lay up for 
yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust consume, and where 
thieves don't break through and steal; 6:21for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. 
6:22"The lamp of the 
body is the eye. If therefore your eye is sound, your whole body will be full of 
light. 6:23But if your eye is 
evil, your whole body will be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is 
in you is darkness, how great is the darkness! 
6:24"No one can serve 
two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other; or else he will 
be devoted to one and despise the other. You can't serve both God and Mammon. 
6:25Therefore, I tell 
you, don't be anxious for your life: what you will eat, or what you will drink; 
nor yet for your body, what you will wear. Isn't life more than food, and the 
body more than clothing? 6:26See the birds of 
the sky, that they don't sow, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns. Your 
heavenly Father feeds them. Aren't you of much more value than they? 
6:27"Which of you, by 
being anxious, can add one cubit to the measure of his life? 6:28Why are you anxious 
about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They don't 
toil, neither do they spin, 6:29yet I tell you that 
even Solomon in all his glory was not dressed like one of these. 6:30But if God so 
clothes the grass of the field, which today exists, and tomorrow is thrown into 
the oven, won't he much more clothe you, you of little faith? 
6:31"Therefore don't be 
anxious, saying, 'What will we eat?', 'What will we drink?' or, 'With what will 
we be clothed?' 6:32For the Gentiles 
seek after all these things, for your heavenly Father knows that you need all 
these things. 6:33But seek first 
God's Kingdom, and his righteousness; and all these things will be given to you 
as well. 6:34Therefore don't be 
anxious for tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Each day's own 
evil is sufficient. 
7:1"Don't judge, so 
that you won't be judged. 7:2For with whatever 
judgment you judge, you will be judged; and with whatever measure you measure, 
it will be measured to you. 7:3Why do you see the 
speck that is in your brother's eye, but don't consider the beam that is in your 
own eye? 7:4Or how will you tell 
your brother, 'Let me remove the speck from your eye;' and behold, the beam is 
in your own eye? 7:5You hypocrite! First 
remove the beam out of your own eye, and then you can see clearly to remove the 
speck out of your brother's eye. 
7:6"Don't give that 
which is holy to the dogs, neither throw your pearls before the pigs, lest 
perhaps they trample them under their feet, and turn and tear you to pieces. 
7:7"Ask, and it will be 
given you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened for you. 
7:8For everyone who 
asks receives. He who seeks finds. To him who knocks it will be opened. 
7:9Or who is there 
among you, who, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone? 7:10Or if he asks for a 
fish, who will give him a serpent? 7:11If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your 
children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to 
those who ask him! 7:12Therefore whatever 
you desire for men to do to you, you shall also do to them; for this is the law 
and the prophets. 
7:13"Enter in by the 
narrow gate; for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to 
destruction, and many are those who enter in by it. 7:14How 
narrow is the gate, and restricted is the way that leads to life! Few are those 
who find it. 
7:15"Beware of false 
prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravening wolves. 
7:16By their fruits you 
will know them. Do you gather grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles? 
7:17Even so, every good 
tree produces good fruit; but the corrupt tree produces evil fruit. 7:18A good tree can't 
produce evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree produce good fruit. 7:19Every tree that 
doesn't grow good fruit is cut down, and thrown into the fire. 7:20Therefore, by their 
fruits you will know them. 7:21Not everyone who 
says to me, 'Lord, Lord,' will enter into the Kingdom of Heaven; but he who does 
the will of my Father who is in heaven. 7:22Many will tell me in that day, 'Lord, Lord, didn't we prophesy in 
your name, in your name cast out demons, and in your name do many mighty works?' 
7:23Then I will tell 
them, 'I never knew you. Depart from me, you who work iniquity.' 
7:24"Everyone therefore 
who hears these words of mine, and does them, I will liken him to a wise man, 
who built his house on a rock.7:25The rain came down, 
the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house; and it didn't fall, 
for it was founded on the rock. 7:26Everyone who hears 
these words of mine, and doesn't do them will be like a foolish man, who built 
his house on the sand. 7:27The rain came down, 
the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house; and it fell--and 
great was its fall."
7:28It happened, when Jesus had finished 
saying these things, that the multitudes were astonished at his teaching, 7:29for he taught them with authority, and 
not like the scribes. 
8:1When he came down from the mountain, 
great multitudes followed him. 8:2Behold, a leper came to him and 
worshiped him, saying, "Lord, if you want to, you can make me clean." 
8:3Jesus stretched out his hand, and 
touched him, saying, "I want to. Be made clean." 
Immediately his leprosy was cleansed. 8:4Jesus said to him, "See that you tell nobody, but go, show yourself to the priest, 
and offer the gift that Moses commanded, as a testimony to them."
8:5When he came into Capernaum, a centurion 
came to him, asking him, 8:6and saying, "Lord, my servant lies in 
the house paralyzed, grievously tormented." 
8:7Jesus said to him, "I will come and heal him."
8:8The centurion answered, "Lord, I'm not 
worthy for you to come under my roof. Just say the word, and my servant will be 
healed. 8:9For I am also a man under authority, 
having under myself soldiers. I tell this one, 'Go,' and he goes; and tell 
another, 'Come,' and he comes; and tell my servant, 'Do this,' and he does it." 
8:10When Jesus heard it, he marveled, and 
said to those who followed, "Most assuredly I tell you, I 
haven't found so great a faith, not even in Israel. 8:11I tell you that many will come from the east and the west, and 
will sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the Kingdom of Heaven, 8:12but the children of 
the Kingdom will be thrown out into the outer darkness. There will be weeping 
and the gnashing of teeth." 8:13Jesus said to the centurion, "Go your way. Let it be done for you as you have believed." 
His servant was healed in that hour. 
8:14When Jesus came into Peter's house, he 
saw his wife's mother lying sick with a fever. 8:15He touched her 
hand, and the fever left her. She got up and served him. 8:16When evening came, they brought to him 
many possessed with demons. He cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all 
who were sick; 8:17that it might be fulfilled which was 
spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying: "He took our infirmities, and bore 
our diseases." 8:18Now when Jesus saw great multitudes 
around him, he gave the order to depart to the other side. 
8:19A scribe came, and said to him, 
"Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go." 
8:20Jesus said to him, "The foxes have holes, and the birds of the sky have nests, but 
the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head."
8:21Another of his disciples said to him, 
"Lord, allow me first to go and bury my father." 
8:22But Jesus said to him, "Follow me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead."
8:23When he got into a boat, his disciples 
followed him. 8:24Behold, a great tempest arose in the 
sea, so much that the boat was covered with the waves, but he was asleep. 8:25They came to him, and woke him up, 
saying, "Save us, Lord! We are dying!" 
8:26He said to them, "Why are you fearful, oh you of little faith?" Then he got 
up, rebuked the wind and the sea, and there was a great calm. 
8:27The men marveled, saying, "What kind of 
man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?" 
8:28When he came to the other side, into 
the country of the Gergesenes, two people possessed by demons met him there, 
coming out of the tombs, exceedingly fierce, so that nobody could pass by that 
way. 8:29Behold, they cried out, saying, "What 
do we have to do with you, Jesus, Son of God? Have you come here to torment us 
before the time?" 8:30Now there was a herd of many pigs 
feeding far away from them. 8:31The demons begged him, saying, "If you 
cast us out, permit us to go away into the herd of pigs." 
8:32He said to them, "Go!"
They came out, and went into the herd of pigs: and behold, the whole herd of 
pigs rushed down the cliff into the sea, and died in the water. 8:33Those who fed them fled, and went away 
into the city, and told everything, including what happened to those who were 
possessed with demons. 8:34Behold, all the city came out to meet 
Jesus. When they saw him, they begged that he would depart from their borders. 
9:1He entered into a boat, and crossed 
over, and came into his own city. 9:2Behold, they brought to him a man who 
was paralyzed, lying on a bed. Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic, 
"Son, cheer up! Your sins are forgiven you."
9:3Behold, some of the scribes said to 
themselves, "This man blasphemes." 
9:4Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, 
"Why do you think evil in your hearts? 9:5For which is easier, 
to say, 'Your sins are forgiven;' or to say, 'Get up, and walk?' 9:6But that you may 
know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins..." (then 
he said to the paralytic), "Get up, and take up your mat, 
and go up to your house."
9:7He arose and departed to his house. 9:8But 
when the multitudes saw it, they marveled and glorified God, who had given such 
authority to men. 
9:9As Jesus passed by from there, he saw a 
man called Matthew sitting at the tax collection office. He said to him, "Follow me." He got up and followed him. 9:10It 
happened as he sat in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came 
and sat down with Jesus and his disciples. 9:11When the Pharisees 
saw it, they said to his disciples, "Why does your teacher eat with tax 
collectors and sinners?" 
9:12When Jesus heard it, he said to them, 
"Those who are healthy have no need for a physician, but 
those who are sick do. 9:13But you go and 
learn what this means: 'I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,' for I came not to 
call the righteous, but sinners to repentance."
9:14Then John's disciples came to him, 
saying, "Why do we and the Pharisees fast often, but your disciples don't fast?" 

9:15Jesus said to them, "Can the friends of the bridegroom mourn, as long as the 
bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom will be 
taken away from them, and then they will fast. 9:16No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment; for the 
patch would tear away from the garment, and a worse hole is made. 9:17Neither do people 
put new wine into old wineskins, or else the skins would burst, and the wine be 
spilled, and the skins ruined. No, they put new wine into fresh wineskins, and 
both are preserved."
9:18While he told these things to them, 
behold, a ruler came and worshiped him, saying, "My daughter has just died, but 
come and lay your hand on her, and she will live." 
9:19Jesus got up and followed him, as did 
his disciples. 9:20Behold, a woman who had an issue of 
blood for twelve years came behind him, and touched the tassels of his garment; 
9:21for she said within herself, "If I just 
touch his garment, I will be made well." 
9:22But Jesus, turning around and seeing 
her, said, "Daughter, cheer up! Your faith has made you 
well." And the woman was made well from that hour. 
9:23When Jesus came into the ruler's house, 
and saw the flute players, and the crowd in noisy disorder, 9:24he said to them, 
"Make room, because the girl isn't dead, but 
sleeping."
They were ridiculing him. 9:25But when the crowd was put out, he 
entered in, took her by the hand, and the girl arose. 9:26The report of this 
went out into all that land. 9:27As Jesus passed by from there, two 
blind men followed him, calling out and saying, "Have mercy on us, son of 
David!" 
9:28When he had come into the house, the 
blind men came to him. Jesus said to them, "Do you believe 
that I am able to do this?"
They told him, "Yes, Lord." 
9:29Then he touched their eyes, saying, 
"According to your faith be it done to you." 9:30Their eyes were opened. Jesus strictly 
charged them, saying, "See that no one knows about 
this." 9:31But they went out and spread abroad his 
fame in all that land. 
9:32As they went out, behold, a mute man 
who was demon possessed was brought to him. 9:33When the demon was 
cast out, the mute man spoke. The multitudes marveled, saying, "Nothing like 
this has ever been seen in Israel!" 
9:34But the Pharisees said, "By the prince 
of the demons, he casts out demons." 
9:35Jesus went about all the cities and the 
villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the Gospel of the Kingdom, 
and healing every disease and every sickness among the people. 9:36But when he saw the multitudes, he was 
moved with compassion for them, because they were harassed and 
scattered, like sheep without a shepherd. 9:37Then he said to his 
disciples, "The harvest indeed is plentiful, but the 
laborers are few. 9:38Pray therefore that 
the Lord of the harvest will send out laborers into his harvest."
10:1He called to himself his twelve 
disciples, and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and 
to heal every disease and every sickness. 10:2Now the names of 
the twelve apostles are these. The first, Simon, who is called Peter; Andrew, 
his brother; James the son of Zebedee; John, his brother; 10:3Philip; 
Bartholomew; Thomas; Matthew the tax collector; James the son of Alphaeus; and 
Lebbaeus, whose surname was Thaddaeus; 10:4Simon the Canaanite; and Judas 
Iscariot, who also betrayed him. 
10:5Jesus sent these twelve out, and 
charged them, saying, "Don't go among the Gentiles, and 
don't enter into any city of the Samaritans. 10:6Rather, go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. 10:7As you go, preach, 
saying, 'The Kingdom of Heaven is at hand!' 10:8Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers*, and cast out demons. Freely you received, so freely give. 
10:9Don't take any 
gold, nor silver, nor brass in your money belts. 10:10Take no bag for your journey, neither two coats, nor shoes, nor 
staff: for the laborer is worthy of his food. 10:11Into whatever city or village you enter, find out who in it is 
worthy; and stay there until you go on. 10:12As you enter into the household, greet it. 10:13If the household 
is worthy, let your peace come on it, but if it isn't worthy, let your peace 
return to you. 10:14Whoever doesn't 
receive you, nor hear your words, as you go out of that house or that city, 
shake off the dust from your feet. 10:15Most assuredly I tell you, it will be more tolerable for the land 
of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city. 
10:16"Behold, I send 
you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore be wise as serpents, and 
harmless as doves. 10:17But beware of men: 
for they will deliver you up to councils, and in their synagogues they will 
scourge you. 10:18Yes, and you will 
be brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony to them and 
to the Gentiles. 10:19But when they 
deliver you up, don't be anxious how or what you will say, for it will be given 
you in that hour what you will say. 10:20For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father who 
speaks in you. 
10:21"Brother will 
deliver up brother to death, and the father his child. Children will rise up 
against parents, and cause them to be put to death. 10:22You will be hated by all men for my name's sake, but he who 
endures to the end will be saved. 10:23But when they persecute you in this city, flee into the next, for 
most assuredly I tell you, you will not have gone through the cities of Israel, 
until the Son of Man has come. 
10:24"A disciple is not 
above his teacher, nor a servant above his lord. 10:25It is enough for the disciple that he be like his teacher, and the 
servant like his lord. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebul, 
how much more those of his household! 10:26Therefore don't be afraid of them, for there is nothing covered 
that will not be revealed; and hidden that will not be known. 10:27What I tell you in 
the darkness, speak in the light; and what you hear whispered in the ear, 
proclaim on the housetops. 10:28Don't be afraid of 
those who kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul. Rather, fear him who 
is able to destroy both soul and body in Gehenna. 
10:29"Aren't two 
sparrows sold for an assarion? Not one of 
them falls on the ground apart from your Father's will, 10:30but the very hairs 
of your head are all numbered. 10:31Therefore don't be 
afraid. You are of more value than many sparrows. 10:32Everyone therefore who confesses me before men, him I will also 
confess before my Father who is in heaven. 10:33But whoever denies me before men, him I will also deny before my 
Father who is in heaven. 
10:34"Don't think that 
I came to send peace on the earth. I didn't come to send peace, but a sword. 
10:35For I came to set 
a man at odds against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a 
daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. 10:36A man's foes will be those of his own household. 10:37He who loves 
father or mother more than me is not worthy of me; and he who loves son or 
daughter more than me isn't worthy of me. 10:38He who doesn't take his cross and follow after me, isn't worthy of 
me. 10:39He who finds his 
life will lose it; and he who loses his life for my sake will find it. 10:40He who receives 
you receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me. 10:41He who receives a 
prophet in the name of a prophet will receive a prophet's reward: and he who 
receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man will receive a righteous 
man's reward. 10:42Whoever gives one 
of these little ones just a cup of cold water to drink in the name of a 
disciple, most assuredly I tell you he will in no way lose his reward."
11:1It happened that when Jesus had 
finished directing his twelve disciples, he departed from there to teach and 
preach in their cities. 11:2Now when John heard in the prison the 
works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples 11:3and said to him, 
"Are you he who comes, or should we look for another?" 
11:4Jesus answered them, "Go and tell John the things which you hear and see: 11:5the blind receive 
their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are 
raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them. 11:6Blessed is he who 
finds no occasion for stumbling in me."
11:7As these went their way, Jesus began to 
say to the multitudes concerning John, "What did you go out 
into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? 11:8But what did you go 
out to see? A man in soft clothing? Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in 
king's houses. 11:9But why did you go 
out? To see a prophet? Yes, I tell you, and much more than a prophet. 11:10For this is he, of 
whom it is written, 'Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will 
prepare your way before you.' 11:11Most assuredly I 
tell you, among those who are born of women there has not arisen anyone greater 
than John the Baptizer; yet he who is least in the Kingdom of Heaven is greater 
than he. 11:12From the days of 
John the Baptizer until now, the Kingdom of Heaven suffers violence, and the 
violent take it by force. 11:13For all the 
prophets and the law prophesied until John. 11:14If you are willing to receive it, this is Elijah, who is to come. 
11:15He who has ears to 
hear, let him hear. 
11:16"But to what shall 
I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces, who 
call to their companions 11:17and say, 'We 
played the flute for you, and you didn't dance. We mourned for you, and you 
didn't lament.' 11:18For John came 
neither eating nor drinking, and they say, 'He has a demon.' 11:19The Son of Man 
came eating and drinking, and they say, 'Behold, a gluttonous man and a 
drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!' But wisdom is justified by 
her children."
11:20Then he began to denounce the cities 
in which most of his mighty works had been done, because they didn't repent. 11:21"Woe to you, 
Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works had been done in Tyre 
and Sidon which were done in you, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth 
and ashes. 11:22But I tell you, it 
will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon on the day of judgment than for you. 
11:23You, Capernaum, 
who are exalted to Heaven, you will go down to Hades. For if the mighty works 
had been done in Sodom which were done in you, it would have remained until this 
day. 11:24But I tell you 
that it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom, on the day of judgment, 
than for you."
11:25At that time, Jesus answered, "I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you hid these 
things from the wise and understanding, and revealed them to infants. 11:26Yes, Father, for 
so it was well-pleasing in your sight. 11:27All things have been delivered to me by my Father. No one knows 
the Son, except the Father; neither does anyone know the Father, except the Son, 
and he to whom the Son desires to reveal him. 
11:28"Come to me, all 
you who labor and are heavily burdened, and I will give you rest. 11:29Take my yoke upon 
you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart; and you will find 
rest for your souls. 11:30For my yoke is 
easy, and my burden is light."
12:1At that time, Jesus went on the Sabbath 
day through the grain fields. His disciples were hungry and began to pluck heads 
of grain and to eat. 12:2But the Pharisees, when they saw it, 
said to him, "Behold, your disciples do what is not lawful to do on the 
Sabbath." 
12:3But he said to them, "Haven't you read what David did, when he was hungry, and those 
who were with him; 12:4how he entered into 
the house of God, and ate the show bread, which was not lawful for him to eat, 
neither for those who were with him, but only for the priests? 12:5Or have you not 
read in the law, that on the Sabbath day, the priests in the temple profane the 
Sabbath, and are guiltless? 12:6But I tell you that 
one greater than the temple is here. 12:7But if you had known what this means, 'I desire mercy, and not 
sacrifice,' you would not have condemned the guiltless. 12:8For the Son of Man 
is Lord of the Sabbath."
12:9He departed there, and went into their 
synagogue. 12:10And behold there was a man with a 
withered hand. They asked him, "Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day?" that 
they might accuse him. 
12:11He said to them, "What man is there among you, who has one sheep, and if this one 
falls into a pit on the Sabbath day, won't he grab on to it, and lift it out? 
12:12Of how much more 
value then is a man than a sheep! Therefore it is lawful to do good on the 
Sabbath day." 12:13Then he told the man, "Stretch out your hand." He stretched it out; and it was 
restored whole, just like the other. 12:14But the Pharisees went out, and 
conspired against him, how they might destroy him. 12:15Jesus, perceiving 
that, withdrew from there. Great multitudes followed him; and he healed them 
all, 12:16and charged them that they should not 
make him known: 12:17that it might be fulfilled which was 
spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying, 
 12:18"Behold, my servant whom I have 
chosen;      My beloved in whom my soul is 
well pleased: 
 I will put my Spirit on him.      He 
will proclaim justice to the Gentiles. 
 12:19He will not strive, nor 
shout;      Neither will anyone hear his voice 
in the streets. 
 12:20He won't break a bruised 
reed.      He won't quench a smoking flax, 
 Until he leads justice to 
victory.      12:21In his name, the 
Gentiles will hope." 
12:22Then one possessed by a demon, blind 
and mute, was brought to him and he healed him, so that the blind and mute man 
both spoke and saw. 12:23All the multitudes were amazed, and 
said, "Can this be the son of David?" 12:24But when the Pharisees heard it, they 
said, "This man does not cast out demons, except by Beelzebul, the prince of the 
demons." 
12:25Knowing their thoughts, Jesus said to 
them, "Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to 
desolation, and every city or house divided against itself will not stand. 
12:26If Satan casts out 
Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand? 12:27If I by Beelzebul 
cast out demons, by whom do your children cast them out? Therefore they will be 
your judges. 12:28But if I by the 
Spirit of God cast out demons, then the Kingdom of God has come upon you. 
12:29Or how can one 
enter into the house of the strong man, and plunder his goods, unless he first 
bind the strong man? Then he will plunder his house. 
12:30"He who is not 
with me is against me, and he who doesn't gather with me, scatters. 12:31Therefore I tell 
you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but the blasphemy against the 
Spirit will not be forgiven men. 12:32Whoever speaks a 
word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him; but whoever speaks against 
the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven him, neither in this age, nor in that 
which is to come. 
12:33"Either make the 
tree good, and its fruit good, or make the tree corrupt, and its fruit corrupt; 
for the tree is known by its fruit. 12:34You offspring of vipers, how can you, being evil, speak good 
things? For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. 12:35The good man out 
of his good treasure brings out good things, and the evil man out of his evil 
treasure* brings out evil things. 12:36I tell you that every idle word that men speak, they will give 
account of it in the day of judgment. 12:37For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you 
will be condemned."
12:38Then certain of the scribes and 
Pharisees answered, "Teacher, we want to see a sign from you." 
12:39But he answered them, "An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, but no sign 
will be given it but the sign of Jonah the prophet. 12:40For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the 
whale, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the 
earth. 12:41The men of Nineveh 
will stand up in the judgment with this generation, and will condemn it, for 
they repented at the preaching of Jonah; and behold, someone greater than Jonah 
is here. 12:42The queen of the 
south will rise up in the judgment with this generation, and will condemn it, 
for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and 
behold, someone greater than Solomon is here. 12:43But the unclean spirit, when he is gone out of the man, passes 
through waterless places, seeking rest, and doesn't find it. 12:44Then he says, 'I 
will return into my house from which I came out,' and when he has come back, he 
finds it empty, swept, and put in order. 12:45Then he goes, and takes with himself seven other spirits more evil 
than he is, and they enter in and dwell there. The last state of that man 
becomes worse than the first. Even so will it be also to this evil 
generation."
12:46While he was yet speaking to the 
multitudes, behold, his mother and his brothers stood outside, seeking to speak 
to him. 12:47One said to him, "Behold, your mother 
and your brothers stand outside, seeking to speak to you." 
12:48But he answered him who spoke to him, 
"Who is my mother? Who are my brothers?" 12:49He stretched out his hand towards his 
disciples, and said, "Behold, my mother and my brothers! 
12:50For whoever does 
the will of my Father who is in heaven, he is my brother, and sister, and 
mother."
13:1On that day Jesus went out of the 
house, and sat by the seaside. 13:2Great multitudes gathered to him, so 
that he entered into a boat, and sat, and all the multitude stood on the beach. 
13:3He spoke to them many things in 
parables, saying, "Behold, a farmer went out to sow. 
13:4As he sowed, some 
seeds fell by the roadside, and the birds came and devoured them. 13:5Others fell on 
rocky ground, where they didn't have much soil, and immediately they sprang up, 
because they had no depth of earth. 13:6When the sun had risen, they were scorched. Because they had no 
root, they withered away. 13:7Others fell among 
thorns. The thorns grew up and choked them: 13:8and others fell on good soil, and yielded fruit: some one hundred 
times as much, some sixty, and some thirty. 13:9He who has ears to hear, let him hear."
13:10The disciples came, and said to him, 
"Why do you speak to them in parables?" 
13:11He answered them, "To you it is given to know the mysteries of the Kingdom of 
Heaven, but it is not given to them. 13:12For whoever has, to him will be given, and he will have abundance, 
but whoever doesn't have, from him will be taken away even that which he has. 
13:13Therefore I speak 
to them in parables, because seeing they don't see, and hearing, they don't 
hear, neither do they understand. 13:14In them the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled, which says, 
 'By hearing you will hear,      And 
will in no way understand; 
 Seeing you will see,      And will in 
no way perceive: 
 13:15For this people's 
heart has grown callous,      Their ears are 
dull of hearing,      They have closed their 
eyes; 
 Or else perhaps they might perceive with their 
eyes,      Hear with their 
ears,      Understand with their heart, 
 And should turn again;      And I 
would heal them.' 
13:16"But blessed are 
your eyes, for they see; and your ears, for they hear. 13:17For most assuredly 
I tell you that many prophets and righteous men desired to see the things which 
you see, and didn't see them; and to hear the things which you hear, and didn't 
hear them. 
13:18"Hear, then, the 
parable of the farmer. 13:19When anyone hears 
the word of the Kingdom, and doesn't understand it, the evil one comes, and 
snatches away that which has been sown in his heart. This is what was sown by 
the roadside. 13:20What was sown on 
the rocky places, this is he who hears the word, and immediately with joy 
receives it; 13:21yet he has no root 
in himself, but endures for a while. When oppression or persecution arises 
because of the word, immediately he stumbles. 13:22What was sown among the thorns, this is he who hears the word, but 
the cares of this age and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and he 
becomes unfruitful. 13:23What was sown on 
the good ground, this is he who hears the word, and understands it, who most 
assuredly bears fruit, and brings forth, some one hundred times as much, some 
sixty, and some thirty."
13:24He set another parable before them, 
saying, "The Kingdom of Heaven is like a man who sowed good 
seed in his field, 13:25but while people 
slept, his enemy came and sowed darnel also among the 
wheat, and went away. 13:26But when the blade 
sprang up and brought forth fruit, then the darnel appeared also. 13:27The servants of 
the householder came and said to him, 'Sir, didn't you sow good seed in your 
field? Where did this darnel come from?' 
13:28"He said to them, 
'An enemy has done this.' 
"The servants asked him, 'Do you want us to go and gather them up?' 
13:29"But he said, 'No, 
lest perhaps while you gather up the darnel, you root up the wheat with them. 
13:30Let both grow 
together until the harvest, and in the harvest time I will tell the reapers, 
"First, gather up the darnel, and bind them in bundles to burn them; but gather 
the wheat into my barn."'"
13:31He set another parable before them, 
saying, "The Kingdom of Heaven is like a grain of mustard 
seed, which a man took, and sowed in his field; 13:32which indeed is smaller than all seeds. But when it is grown, it 
is greater than the herbs, and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come 
and lodge in its branches."
13:33He spoke another parable to them. 
"The Kingdom of Heaven is like yeast, which a woman took, 
and hid in three measures of meal, 
until it was all leavened."
13:34Jesus spoke all these things in 
parables to the multitudes; and without a parable, he didn't speak to them, 13:35that it might be fulfilled which was 
spoken through the prophet, saying, 
 "I will open my mouth in 
parables;      I will utter things hidden from 
the foundation of the world." 
13:36Then Jesus sent the multitudes away, 
and went into the house. His disciples came to him, saying, "Explain to us the 
parable of the darnel of the field." 
13:37He answered them, "He who sows the good seed is the Son of Man, 13:38the field is the 
world; and the good seed, these are the children of the Kingdom; and the darnel 
are the children of the evil one. 13:39The enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the end of 
the age, and the reapers are angels. 13:40As therefore the darnel is gathered up and burned with fire; so 
will it be at the end of this age. 13:41The Son of Man will send out his angels, and they will gather out 
of his Kingdom all things that cause stumbling, and those who do iniquity, 
13:42and will cast them 
into the furnace of fire. There will be weeping and the gnashing of teeth. 
13:43Then the righteous 
will shine forth like the sun in the Kingdom of their Father. He who has ears to 
hear, let him hear. 
13:44"Again, the 
Kingdom of Heaven is like a treasure hidden in the field, which a man found, and 
hid. In his joy, he goes and sells all that he has, and buys that field. 
13:45"Again, the 
Kingdom of Heaven is like a man who is a merchant seeking fine pearls, 13:46who having found 
one pearl of great price, he went and sold all that he had, and bought it. 
13:47"Again, the 
Kingdom of Heaven is like a dragnet, that was cast into the sea, and gathered 
some fish of every kind, 13:48which, when it was 
filled, they drew up on the beach. They sat down, and gathered the good into 
containers, but the bad they threw away. 13:49So will it be in the end of the world. The angels will come forth, 
and separate the wicked from among the righteous, 13:50and will cast them into the furnace of fire. There will be the 
weeping and the gnashing of teeth." 13:51Jesus said to 
them, "Have you understood all these things?"
They answered him, "Yes, Lord." 
13:52He said to them, "Therefore, every scribe who has been made a disciple in the 
Kingdom of Heaven is like a man who is a householder, who brings out of his 
treasure new and old things."
13:53It happened that when Jesus had 
finished these parables, he departed from there. 13:54Coming into his 
own country, he taught them in their synagogue, so that they were astonished, 
and said, "Where did this man get this wisdom, and these mighty works? 13:55Isn't this the carpenter's son? Isn't 
his mother called Mary, and his brothers, James, Joses, Simon, and Judas? 13:56Aren't all of his sisters with us? 
Where then did this man get all of these things?" 13:57They were offended 
by him. 
But Jesus said to them, "A prophet is not without honor, 
except in his own country, and in his own house." 13:58He didn't do many 
mighty works there because of their unbelief. 
14:1At that time, Herod the tetrarch heard 
the report concerning Jesus, 14:2and said to his servants, "This is John 
the Baptizer. He is risen from the dead. That is why these powers work in him." 
14:3For Herod had laid hold of John, and 
bound him, and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's 
wife. 14:4For John said to him, "It is not lawful 
for you to have her." 14:5When he would have put him to death, he 
feared the multitude, because they counted him as a prophet. 14:6But when Herod's 
birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced among them and pleased Herod. 14:7Whereupon he promised with an oath to 
give her whatever she should ask. 14:8She, being prompted by her mother, 
said, "Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptizer." 
14:9The king was grieved, but for the sake 
of his oaths, and of those who sat at the table with him, he commanded it to be 
given, 14:10and he sent and beheaded John in the 
prison. 14:11His head was brought on a platter, and 
given to the young lady: and she brought it to her mother. 14:12His disciples 
came, and took the body, and buried it; and they went and told Jesus. 14:13Now when Jesus heard this, he withdrew 
from there in a boat, to a deserted place apart. When the multitudes heard it, 
they followed him on foot from the cities. 
14:14Jesus went out, and he saw a great 
multitude. He had compassion on them, and healed their sick. 14:15When evening had come, his disciples 
came to him, saying, "This place is deserted, and the hour is already late. Send 
the multitudes away, that they may go into the villages, and buy themselves 
food." 
14:16But Jesus said to them, "They don't need to go away. You give them something to 
eat."
14:17They told him, "We only have here five 
loaves and two fish." 
14:18He said, "Bring 
them here to me." 14:19He commanded the multitudes to sit 
down on the grass; and he took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up 
to heaven, he blessed, broke and gave the loaves to the disciples, and the 
disciples gave to the multitudes. 14:20They all ate, and were filled. They 
took up twelve baskets full of that which remained left over from the broken 
pieces. 14:21Those who ate were about five thousand 
men, besides women and children. 
14:22Immediately Jesus made the disciples 
get into the boat, and to go ahead of him to the other side, while he sent the 
multitudes away. 14:23After he had sent the multitudes away, 
he went up into the mountain by himself to pray. When evening had come, he was 
there alone. 14:24But the boat was now in the middle of 
the sea, distressed by the waves, for the wind was contrary. 14:25In the fourth watch of the 
night, Jesus came to them, walking on the sea. 14:26When the disciples 
saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, "It's a ghost!" and they 
cried out for fear. 14:27But immediately Jesus spoke to them, 
saying "Cheer up! I AM! Don't be 
afraid."
14:28Peter answered him and said, "Lord, if 
it is you, command me to come to you on the waters." 
14:29He said, "Come!"
Peter stepped down from the boat, and walked on the waters to come to Jesus. 
14:30But when he saw that the wind was 
strong, he was afraid, and beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, "Lord, save 
me!" 
14:31Immediately Jesus stretched out his 
hand, took hold of him, and said to him, "You of little 
faith, why did you doubt?" 14:32When they got up into the boat, the 
wind ceased. 14:33Those who were in the boat came and 
worshiped him, saying, "You are truly the Son of God!" 
14:34When they had crossed over, they came 
to the land of Gennesaret. 14:35When the men of that place recognized 
him, they sent into all that surrounding region, and brought to him all who were 
sick, 14:36and they begged him that they might 
just touch the fringe of his garment. As many as touched it were made whole. 
15:1Then Pharisees and scribes came to 
Jesus from Jerusalem, saying, 15:2"Why do your disciples disobey the 
tradition of the elders? For they don't wash their hands when they eat bread." 
15:3He answered them, "Why do you also disobey the commandment of God because of your 
tradition? 15:4For God commanded, 
'Honor your father and your mother,' and, 'He who speaks evil of father or 
mother, let him be put to death.' 15:5But you say, 
'Whoever may tell his father or his mother, "Whatever help you might otherwise 
have gotten from me is a gift devoted to God," 15:6he shall not honor his father or mother.' You have made the 
commandment of God void because of your tradition. 15:7You hypocrites! Well did Isaiah prophesy of you, saying, 
 15:8'These people draw 
near to me with their mouth,      And honor me 
with their lips;      But their heart is far 
from me. 
 15:9And in vain do they 
worship me,      Teaching as doctrine rules 
made by men.'"
15:10He summoned the multitude, and said to 
them, "Hear, and understand. 15:11That which enters into the mouth 
doesn't defile the man; but that which proceeds out of the mouth, this defiles 
the man." 
15:12Then the disciples came, and said to 
him, "Do you know that the Pharisees were offended, when they heard this 
saying?" 
15:13But he answered, "Every plant which my heavenly Father didn't plant will be 
uprooted. 15:14Leave them alone. 
They are blind guides of the blind. If the blind guide the blind, both will fall 
into a pit."
15:15Peter answered him, "Explain the 
parable to us." 
15:16So Jesus said, "Do 
you also still not understand? 15:17Don't you 
understand that whatever goes into the mouth passes into the belly, and then out 
of the body? 15:18But the things 
which proceed out of the mouth come out of the heart, and they defile the man. 
15:19For out of the 
heart come forth evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, sexual sins, thefts, false 
testimony, and blasphemies. 15:20These are the 
things which defile the man; but to eat with unwashed hands doesn't defile the 
man."
15:21Jesus went out from there, and 
withdrew into the region of Tyre and Sidon. 15:22Behold, a 
Canaanite woman came out from those borders, and cried, saying, "Have mercy on 
me, Lord, you son of David! My daughter is severely demonized!" 
15:23But he answered her not a word. 
His disciples came and begged him, saying, "Send her away; for she cries 
after us." 
15:24But he answered, "I wasn't sent to anyone but the lost sheep of the house of 
Israel."
15:25But she came and worshiped him, 
saying, "Lord, help me." 
15:26But he answered, "It is not appropriate to take the children's bread and throw it 
to the dogs."
15:27But she said, "Yes, Lord, but even the 
dogs eat the crumbs which fall from their masters' table." 
15:28Then Jesus answered her, "Woman, great is your faith! Be it done to you even as you 
desire." And her daughter was healed from that hour. 
15:29Jesus departed there, and came near to 
the sea of Galilee; and he went up into the mountain, and sat there. 15:30Great multitudes came to him, having 
with them the lame, blind, mute, maimed, and many others, and they put them down 
at his feet. He healed them, 15:31so that the multitude wondered when 
they saw the mute speaking, injured whole, lame walking, and blind seeing--and 
they glorified the God of Israel. 
15:32Jesus summoned his disciples and said, 
"I have compassion on the multitude, because they continue 
with me now three days and have nothing to eat. I don't want to send them away 
fasting, or they might faint on the way."
15:33The disciples said to him, "Where 
should we get so many loaves in a deserted place as to satisfy so great a 
multitude?" 
15:34Jesus said to them, "How many loaves do you have?"
They said, "Seven, and a few small fish." 
15:35He commanded the multitude to sit down 
on the ground; 15:36and he took the seven loaves and the 
fish. He gave thanks and broke them, and gave to the disciples, and the 
disciples to the multitudes. 15:37They all ate, and were filled. They 
took up seven baskets full of the broken pieces that were left over. 15:38Those who ate were four thousand men, 
besides women and children. 15:39Then he sent away the multitudes, got 
into the boat, and came into the borders of Magdala. 
16:1The Pharisees and Sadducees came, and 
testing him, asked him to show them a sign from heaven. 16:2But he answered 
them, "When it is evening, you say, 'It will be fair 
weather, for the sky is red.' 16:3In the morning, 'It 
will be foul weather today, for the sky is red and threatening.' Hypocrites! You 
know how to discern the appearance of the sky, but you can't discern the signs 
of the times! 16:4An evil and 
adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and there will be no sign given to it, 
except the sign of the prophet Jonah."
He left them, and departed. 16:5The disciples came to the other side 
and had forgotten to take bread. 16:6Jesus said to them, "Take heed and beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and 
Sadducees."
16:7They reasoned among themselves, saying, 
"We brought no bread." 
16:8Jesus, perceiving it, said, "Why do you reason among yourselves, you of little faith, 'because 
you have brought no bread?' 16:9Don't you yet 
perceive, neither remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many 
baskets you took up? 16:10Nor the seven 
loaves for the four thousand, and how many baskets you took up? 16:11How is it that you 
don't perceive that I didn't speak to you concerning bread? But beware of the 
yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees."
16:12Then they understood that he didn't 
tell them to beware of the yeast of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees 
and Sadducees. 16:13Now when Jesus came into the parts of 
Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, "Who do 
men say that I, the Son of Man, am?"
16:14They said, "Some say John the 
Baptizer, some, Elijah, and others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets." 
16:15He said to them, "But who do you say 
that I am?" 
16:16Simon Peter answered, "You are the 
Christ, the Son of the living God." 
16:17Jesus answered him, "Blessed are you, Simon Bar Jonah, for flesh and blood has not 
revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. 16:18I also tell you 
that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my 
assembly, and the gates of Hades will not prevail against it. 16:19I will give to you 
the keys of the Kingdom of Heaven, and whatever you bind on earth will be bound 
in heaven; and whatever you release on earth will be released in heaven."
16:20Then he charged the disciples that 
they should tell no one that he is Jesus the Christ. 16:21From that time, 
Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many 
things from the elders, chief priests, and scribes, and be killed, and the third 
day be raised up. 
16:22Peter took him aside, and began to 
rebuke him, saying, "Far be it from you, Lord! This will never be done to you." 
16:23But he turned, and said to Peter, 
"Get behind me, Satan! You are a stumbling-block to me, for 
you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of 
men." 16:24Then Jesus said to his disciples, 
"If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself, 
and take up his cross, and follow me. 16:25For whoever desires to save his life will lose it, and whoever 
will lose his life for my sake will find it. 16:26For what will it profit a man, if he gains the whole world, and 
forfeits his life? Or what will a man give in exchange for his life? 16:27For the Son of Man 
will come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he will render to 
everyone according to his deeds. 16:28Most assuredly I 
tell you, there are some standing here who will in no way taste of death, until 
they see the Son of Man coming in his Kingdom."
17:1After six days, Jesus took with him 
Peter, James, and John his brother, and brought them up into a high mountain by 
themselves. 17:2He was transfigured before them. His 
face shone like the sun, and his garments became as white as the light. 17:3Behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to 
them talking with him. 
17:4Peter answered, and said to Jesus, 
"Lord, it is good for us to be here. If you want, let's make three tents here: 
one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah." 
17:5While he was still speaking, behold, a 
bright cloud overshadowed them. Behold, a voice came out of the cloud, saying, 
"This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Listen to him." 
17:6When the disciples heard it, they fell 
on their faces, and were very afraid. 17:7Jesus came and touched them and said, 
"Get up, and don't be afraid." 17:8Lifting up their 
eyes, they saw no one, except Jesus alone. 17:9As they were coming 
down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, "Don't 
tell anyone what you saw, until the Son of Man has risen from the dead."
17:10His disciples asked him, saying, "Then 
why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?" 
17:11Jesus answered them, "Elijah indeed comes first, and will restore all things, 17:12but I tell you 
that Elijah has come already, and they didn't recognize him, but did to him 
whatever they wanted to. Even so the Son of Man will also suffer by 
them." 17:13Then the disciples understood that he 
spoke to them of John the Baptizer. 
17:14When they came to the multitude, a man 
came to him, kneeling down to him, saying, 17:15"Lord, have mercy 
on my son, for he is epileptic, and suffers grievously; for he often falls into 
the fire, and often into the water. 17:16So I brought him to your disciples, 
and they could not cure him." 
17:17Jesus answered, "Faithless and perverse generation! How long will I be with you? 
How long will I bear with you? Bring him here to me." 17:18Jesus rebuked him, the demon went out 
of him, and the boy was cured from that hour. 
17:19Then the disciples came to Jesus 
privately, and said, "Why weren't we able to cast it out?" 
17:20He said to them, "Because of your unbelief. For most assuredly I tell you, if you 
have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you will tell this mountain, 'Move from 
here to there,' and it will move; and nothing will be impossible for you. 
17:21But this kind 
doesn't go out except by prayer and fasting."
17:22While they were staying in Galilee, 
Jesus said to them, "The Son of Man is about to be delivered 
up into the hands of men, 17:23and they will kill 
him, and the third day he will be raised up."
They were exceedingly sorry. 17:24When they had come to Capernaum, those 
who collected the didrachma coins came 
to Peter, and said, "Doesn't your teacher pay the didrachma?" 17:25He said, "Yes." 
When he came into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, "What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth 
receive toll or tribute? From their children, or from strangers?"
17:26Peter said to him, "From strangers." 
Jesus said to him, "Therefore the children are exempt. 
17:27But, lest we cause 
them to stumble, go to the sea, and cast a hook, and take up the first fish that 
comes up. When you have opened its mouth, you will find a stater coin. Take 
that, and give it to them for me and you."
18:1In that hour the disciples came to 
Jesus, saying, "Who then is greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven?" 
18:2Jesus called a little child to himself, 
and set him in the midst of them, 18:3and said, "Most 
assuredly I tell you, unless you turn, and become as little children, you will 
in no way enter into the Kingdom of Heaven. 18:4Whoever therefore humbles himself as this little child, the same 
is the greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven. 18:5Whoever receives one such little child in my name receives me, 
18:6but whoever causes 
one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better for 
him that a huge millstone should be hung around his neck, and that he should be 
sunk in the depths of the sea. 
18:7"Woe to the world 
because of occasions of stumbling! For it must be that the occasions come, but 
woe to that person through whom the occasion comes! 18:8If your hand or your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off, and 
cast it from you. It is better for you to enter into life maimed or crippled, 
rather than having two hands or two feet to be cast into the eternal fire. 
18:9If your eye causes 
you to stumble, pluck it out, and cast it from you. It is better for you to 
enter into life with one eye, rather than having two eyes to be cast into the Gehenna of fire. 
18:10See that you don't 
despise one of these little ones, for I tell you that in heaven their angels 
always see the face of my Father who is in heaven. 18:11For the Son of Man came to save that which was lost. 
18:12"What do you 
think? If a man has one hundred sheep, and one of them goes astray, doesn't he 
leave the ninety-nine, go to the mountains, and seek that which has gone astray? 
18:13If he finds it, 
most assuredly I tell you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine 
which have not gone astray. 18:14Even so it is not 
the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should 
perish. 
18:15"If your brother 
sins against you, go, show him his fault between you and him alone. If he 
listens to you, you have gained back your brother. 18:16But if he doesn't listen, take one or two more with you, that at 
the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. 18:17If he refuses to 
listen to them, tell it to the assembly. If he refuses to hear the assembly 
also, let him be to you as a Gentile or a tax collector. 18:18Most assuredly I 
tell you, whatever things you will bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and 
whatever things you will release on earth will be released in heaven. 18:19Again, assuredly I 
tell you, that if two of you will agree on earth concerning anything that they 
will ask, it will be done for them by my Father who is in heaven. 18:20For where two or 
three are gathered together in my name, there I am in the midst of them."
18:21Then Peter came and said to him, 
"Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Until seven 
times?" 
18:22Jesus said to him, "I don't tell you until seven times, but, until seventy times 
seven. 18:23Therefore the 
Kingdom of Heaven is like a certain king, who wanted to reconcile accounts with 
his servants. 18:24When he had begun 
to reconcile, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents.
18:25But because he 
couldn't pay, his lord commanded him to be sold, with his wife, his children, 
and all that he had, and payment to be made. 18:26The servant therefore fell down and kneeled before him, saying, 
'Lord, have patience with me, and I will repay you all!' 18:27The lord of that 
servant, being moved with compassion, released him, and forgave him the debt. 
18:28"But that servant 
went out, and found one of his fellow servants, who owed him one hundred denarii, 
and he grabbed him, and took him by the throat, saying, 'Pay me what you owe!' 
18:29"So his fellow 
servant fell down at his feet and begged him, saying, 'Have patience with me, 
and I will repay you!' 18:30He would not, but 
went and cast him into prison, until he should pay back that which was due. 
18:31So when his fellow 
servants saw what was done, they were exceedingly sorry, and came and told to 
their lord all that was done. 18:32Then his lord 
called him in, and said to him, 'You wicked servant! I forgave you all that 
debt, because you begged me. 18:33Shouldn't you also 
have had mercy on your fellow servant, even as I had mercy on you?' 18:34His lord was 
angry, and delivered him to the tormentors, until he should pay all that was due 
to him. 18:35So my heavenly 
Father will also do to you, if you don't each forgive your brother from your 
hearts for his misdeeds."
19:1It happened when Jesus had finished 
these words, he departed from Galilee, and came into the borders of Judea beyond 
the Jordan. 19:2Great multitudes followed him, and he 
healed them there. 19:3Pharisees came to him, testing him, and 
saying, "Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason?" 
19:4He answered, "Haven't you read that he who made them from the beginning made 
them male and female, 19:5and said, 'For this 
cause a man shall leave his father and mother, and shall join to his wife; and 
the two shall become one flesh?' 19:6So that they are no 
more two, but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, don't let man 
tear apart."
19:7They asked him, "Why then did Moses 
command us to give her a bill of divorce, and divorce her?" 
19:8He said to them, "Moses, because of the hardness of your hearts, allowed you to 
divorce your wives, but from the beginning it has not been so. 19:9I tell you that 
whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another, 
commits adultery; and he who marries her when she is divorced commits 
adultery."
19:10His disciples said to him, "If this is 
the case of the man with his wife, it is not expedient to marry." 
19:11But he said to them, "Not all men can receive this saying, but those to whom it is 
given. 19:12For there are 
eunuchs who were born that way from their mother's womb, and there are eunuchs 
who were made eunuchs by men; and there are eunuchs who made themselves eunuchs 
for the Kingdom of Heaven's sake. He who is able to receive it, let him receive 
it."
19:13Then little children were brought to 
him, that he should lay his hands on them and pray; and the disciples rebuked 
them. 19:14But Jesus said, "Allow the little children, and don't forbid them to come to me; 
for to such belongs the Kingdom of Heaven." 19:15He laid his hands 
on them, and departed from there. 
19:16Behold, one came to him and said, 
"Good teacher, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life?" 
19:17He said to him, "Why do you call me good? No one is good but one, that is, God. 
But if you want to enter into life, keep the commandments."
19:18He said to him, "Which ones?" 
Jesus said, "'You shall not murder.' 'You shall not 
commit adultery.' 'You shall not steal.' 'You shall not offer false testimony.' 
19:19'Honor your father 
and mother.' And, 'You shall love your neighbor as yourself.'"
19:20The young man said to him, "All these 
things I have observed from my youth. What do I still lack?" 
19:21Jesus said to him, "If you want to be perfect, go, sell what you have, and give to 
the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me." 19:22But when the young man heard the 
saying, he went away sad, for he was one who had great possessions. 19:23Jesus said to his disciples, "Most assuredly I say to you, a rich man will enter into the 
Kingdom of Heaven with difficulty. 19:24Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through a 
needle's eye, than for a rich man to enter into the Kingdom of God."
19:25When the disciples heard it, they were 
exceedingly astonished, saying, "Who then can be saved?" 
19:26Looking at them, Jesus said, "With men this is impossible, but with God all things are 
possible."
19:27Then Peter answered, "Behold, we have 
left everything, and followed you. What then will we have?" 
19:28Jesus said to them, "Most assuredly I tell you that you who have followed me, in the 
regeneration when the Son of Man will sit on the throne of his glory, you also 
will sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. 19:29Everyone who has 
left houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or 
children, or lands, for my name's sake, will receive one hundred times, and will 
inherit eternal life. 19:30But many will be 
last who are first; and first who are last.
20:1"For the Kingdom of 
Heaven is like a man who was the master of a household, who went out early in 
the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. 20:2When he had agreed with the laborers for a denarius a day, he 
sent them into his vineyard. 20:3He went out about 
the third hour, 
and saw others standing idle in the marketplace. 20:4To them he said, 'You also go into the vineyard, and whatever is 
right I will give you.' So they went their way. 20:5Again he went out about the sixth and the ninth 
hour, and did likewise. 20:6About the eleventh hour he went 
out, and found others standing idle. He said to them, 'Why do you stand here all 
day idle?' 
20:7"They said to him, 
'Because no one has hired us.' 
"He said to them, 'You also go into the vineyard, and you will receive 
whatever is right.' 20:8When evening had 
come, the lord of the vineyard said to his steward, 'Call the laborers and pay 
them their wages, beginning from the last to the first.' 
20:9"When those who 
were hired at about the eleventh hour came, they each received a denarius. 
20:10When the first 
came, they supposed that they would receive more; and they likewise each 
received a denarius. 20:11When they received 
it, they murmured against the master of the household, 20:12saying, 'These 
last have spent one hour, and you have made them equal to us, who have borne the 
burden of the day and the scorching heat!' 
20:13"But he answered 
one of them, 'Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Didn't you agree with me for a 
denarius? 20:14Take that which is 
yours, and go your way. It is my desire to give to this last just as much as to 
you. 20:15Isn't it lawful 
for me to do what I want to with what I own? Or is your eye evil, because I am 
good?' 20:16So the last will 
be first, and the first last. For many are called, but few are chosen."
20:17As Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he 
took the twelve disciples aside, and on the way he said to them, 20:18"Behold, we are 
going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests 
and scribes, and they will condemn him to death, 20:19and will hand him over to the Gentiles to mock, to scourge, and to 
crucify; and the third day he will be raised up."
20:20Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee 
came to him with her sons, kneeling and asking a certain thing of him. 20:21He said to her, "What do you want?"
She said to him, "Command that these, my two sons, may sit, one on your right 
hand, and one on your left hand, in your Kingdom." 
20:22But Jesus answered, "You don't know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup 
that I am about to drink, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized 
with?"
They said to him, "We are able." 
20:23He said to them, "You will indeed drink my cup, and be baptized with the baptism 
that I am baptized with, but to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not 
mine to give; but it is for whom it has been prepared by my Father."
20:24When the ten heard it, they were 
indignant with the two brothers. 
20:25But Jesus summoned them, and said, 
"You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, 
and their great ones exercise authority over them. 20:26It shall not be so among you, but whoever desires to become great 
among you shall be 
your servant. 20:27Whoever desires to 
be first among you shall be your bondservant, 20:28even as the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve, and to 
give his life as a ransom for many."
20:29As they went out from Jericho, a great 
multitude followed him. 20:30Behold, two blind men sitting by the 
road, when they heard that Jesus was passing by, cried out, "Lord, have mercy on 
us, you son of David!" 20:31The multitude rebuked them, telling 
them that they should be quiet, but they cried out even more, "Lord, have mercy 
on us, you son of David!" 
20:32Jesus stood still, and called them, 
and asked, "What do you want me to do for you?"
20:33They told him, "Lord, that our eyes 
may be opened." 
20:34Jesus, being moved with compassion, 
touched their eyes; and immediately their eyes received their sight, and they 
followed him. 
21:1When they drew near to Jerusalem, and 
came to Bethsphage, to the 
Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples, 21:2saying to them, 
"Go into the village that is opposite you, and immediately 
you will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her. Untie them, and bring them to 
me. 21:3If anyone says 
anything to you, you shall say, 'The Lord needs them,' and immediately he will 
send them."
21:4All this was done, that it might be 
fulfilled which was spoken through the prophet, saying, 
 21:5"Tell the daughter of 
Zion,      Behold, your King comes to 
you,      Humble, and riding on a 
donkey,      On a colt, the foal of a donkey." 

21:6The disciples went, and did just as 
Jesus commanded them, 21:7and brought the donkey and the colt, 
and laid their clothes on them; and he sat on them. 21:8A very great 
multitude spread their clothes on the road. Others cut branches from the trees, 
and spread them on the road. 21:9The multitudes who went before him, and 
who followed kept shouting, "Hosanna to the son of David! Blessed is he who 
comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!" 
21:10When he had come into Jerusalem, all 
the city was stirred up, saying, "Who is this?" 21:11The multitudes 
said, "This is the prophet, Jesus, from Nazareth of Galilee." 
21:12Jesus entered into the temple of God, 
and drove out all of those who sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the 
money-changers' tables and the seats of those who sold the doves. 21:13He said to them, "It is written, 'My house shall be called a house of prayer,' but 
you have made it a den of robbers!"
21:14The blind and the lame came to him in 
the temple, and he healed them. 21:15But when the chief priests and the 
scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children who were crying 
in the temple and saying, "Hosanna to the son of David!" they were indignant, 21:16and said to him, "Do you hear what 
these are saying?" 
Jesus said to them, "Yes. Did you never read, 'Out of the 
mouth of babes and nursing babies you have perfected praise?'"
21:17He left them, and went out of the city 
to Bethany, and lodged there. 21:18Now in the morning, as he returned to 
the city, he was hungry. 21:19Seeing a fig tree by the road, he came 
to it, and found nothing on it but leaves. He said to it, "Let there be no fruit from you forever!"
Immediately the fig tree withered away. 21:20When the disciples 
saw it, they marveled, saying, "How did the fig tree immediately wither away?" 
21:21Jesus answered them, "Most assuredly I tell you, if you have faith, and don't doubt, 
you will not only do what is done to the fig tree, but even if you told this 
mountain, 'Be taken up and cast into the sea,' it would be done. 21:22All things, 
whatever you ask in prayer, believing, you will receive."
21:23When he had come into the temple, the 
chief priests and the elders of the people came to him as he was teaching, and 
said, "By what authority do you do these things? Who gave you this authority?" 
21:24Jesus answered them, "I also will ask you one question, which if you tell me, I 
likewise will tell you by what authority I do these things. 21:25The baptism of 
John, where was it from? From heaven or from men?"
They reasoned with themselves, saying, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will ask 
us, 'Why then did you not believe him?' 21:26But if we say, 'From men,' we fear the 
multitude, for all hold John as a prophet." 21:27They answered 
Jesus, and said, "We don't know." 
He also said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what 
authority I do these things. 21:28But what do you 
think? A man had two sons, and he came to the first, and said, 'Son, go work 
today in my vineyard.' 21:29He answered, 'I 
will not,' but afterward he changed his mind, and went. 21:30He came to the 
second, and said the same thing. He answered, 'I go, sir,' but he didn't go. 
21:31Which of the two 
did the will of his father?"
They said to him, "The first." 
Jesus said to them, "Most assuredly I tell you that the 
tax collectors and the prostitutes are entering into the Kingdom of God before 
you. 21:32For John came to 
you in the way of righteousness, and you didn't believe him, but the tax 
collectors and the prostitutes believed him. When you saw it, you didn't even 
repent afterward, that you might believe him. 
21:33"Hear another 
parable. There was a man who was a master of a household, who planted a 
vineyard, set a hedge about it, dug a winepress in it, built a tower, leased it 
out to farmers, and went into another country. 21:34When the season for the fruit drew near, he sent his servants to 
the farmers, to receive his fruit. 21:35The farmers took his servants, beat one, killed another, and 
stoned another. 21:36Again, he sent 
other servants more than the first: and they treated them the same way. 
21:37But afterward he 
sent to them his son, saying, 'They will respect my son.' 21:38But the farmers, 
when they saw the son, said among themselves, 'This is the heir. Come, let's 
kill him, and seize his inheritance.' 21:39So they took him, and threw him out of the vineyard, and killed 
him. 21:40When therefore the 
lord of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those farmers?"
21:41They told him, "He will miserably 
destroy those miserable men, and will lease out the vineyard to other farmers, 
who will give him the fruit in its season." 
21:42Jesus said to them, "Did you never read in the Scriptures, 
 'The stone which the builders 
rejected,      The same was made the head of 
the corner. 
 This was from the Lord.      It is 
marvelous in our eyes?' 
21:43"Therefore I tell 
you, the Kingdom of God will be taken away from you, and will be given to a 
nation bringing forth its fruits. 21:44He who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, but on 
whoever it will fall, it will scatter him as dust."
21:45When the chief priests and the 
Pharisees heard his parables, they perceived that he spoke about them. 21:46When they sought to seize him, they 
feared the multitudes, because they considered him to be a prophet. 
22:1Jesus answered and spoke again in 
parables to them, saying, 22:2"The Kingdom of 
Heaven is like a certain king, who made a marriage feast for his son, 22:3and sent out his 
servants to call those who were invited to the marriage feast, but they would 
not come. 22:4Again he sent out 
other servants, saying, 'Tell those who are invited, "Behold, I have made ready 
my dinner. My oxen and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready. Come to 
the marriage feast!"' 22:5But they made light 
of it, and went their ways, one to his own farm, another to his merchandise, 
22:6and the rest 
grabbed his servants, and treated them shamefully, and killed them. 22:7When the king heard 
that, he was angry, and he sent his armies, destroyed those murderers, and 
burned their city. 
22:8"Then he said to 
his servants, 'The wedding is ready, but those who were invited weren't worthy. 
22:9Go therefore to the 
intersections of the highways, and as many as you may find, invite to the 
marriage feast.' 22:10Those servants 
went out into the highways, and gathered together as many as they found, both 
bad and good. The wedding was filled with guests. 22:11But when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there a man 
who didn't have on wedding clothing, 22:12and he said to him, 'Friend, how did you come in here not wearing 
wedding clothing?' He was speechless. 22:13Then the king said to the servants, 'Bind him hand and foot, take 
him away, and throw him into the outer darkness; there is where the weeping and 
grinding of teeth will be.' 22:14For many are 
called, but few chosen."
22:15Then the Pharisees went and took 
counsel how they might entrap him in his talk. 22:16They sent their 
disciples to him, along with the Herodians, saying, "Teacher, we know that you 
are honest, and teach the way of God in truth, no matter who you teach, for you 
aren't partial to anyone. 22:17Tell us therefore, what do you think? 
Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?" 
22:18But Jesus perceived their wickedness, 
and said, "Why do you test me, you hypocrites? 22:19Show me the tax 
money."
They brought to him a denarius. 
22:20He asked them, "Whose is this image and inscription?"
22:21They said to him, "Caesar's." 
Then he said to them, "Give therefore to Caesar the 
things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's."
22:22When they heard it, they marveled, and 
left him, and went away. 
22:23On that day Sadducees (those who say 
that there is no resurrection) came to him. They asked him, 22:24saying, "Teacher, 
Moses said, 'If a man dies, having no children, his brother shall marry his 
wife, and raise up seed for his brother.' 22:25Now there were 
with us seven brothers. The first married and died, and having no seed left his 
wife to his brother. 22:26In like manner the second also, and 
the third, to the seventh. 22:27After them all, the woman died. 22:28In the resurrection therefore, whose 
wife will she be of the seven? For they all had her." 
22:29But Jesus answered them, "You are mistaken, not knowing the Scriptures, nor the power of 
God. 22:30For in the 
resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are like God's 
angels in heaven. 22:31But concerning the 
resurrection of the dead, haven't you read that which was spoken to you by God, 
saying, 22:32'I am the God of 
Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?' God is not the God of the 
dead, but of the living."
22:33When the multitudes heard it, they 
were astonished at his teaching. 22:34But the Pharisees, when they heard 
that he had put the Sadducees to silence, gathered themselves together. 22:35One of them, a lawyer, asked him a 
question, testing him. 22:36"Teacher, which is the greatest 
commandment in the law?" 
22:37Jesus said to him, "'You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with 
all your soul, and with all your mind.' 22:38This is the first and great commandment. 22:39A second likewise 
is this, 'You shall love your neighbor as yourself.' 22:40The whole law and the prophets depend on these two 
commandments."
22:41Now while the Pharisees were gathered 
together, Jesus asked them a question, 22:42saying, "What do 
you think of the Christ? Whose son is he?"
They said to him, "Of David." 
22:43He said to them, "How then does David in the Spirit call him Lord, saying, 
 22:44'The Lord said to 
my Lord,      Sit on my right 
hand,      Until I make your enemies a 
footstool for your feet?' 
22:45"If then David 
calls him Lord, how is he his son?"
22:46No one was able to answer him a word, 
neither dared any man from that day forth ask him any more questions. 
23:1Then Jesus spoke to the multitudes and 
to his disciples, 23:2saying, "The 
scribes and the Pharisees sat on Moses' seat. 23:3All things therefore whatever they tell you to observe, observe 
and do, but don't do their works; for they say, and don't do. 23:4For they bind heavy 
burdens that are grievous to be borne, and lay them on men's shoulders; but they 
themselves will not lift a finger to help them. 23:5But all their works they do to be seen by men. They make their 
phylacteries broad, enlarge the fringes of their garments, 23:6and love the place 
of honor at feasts, the best seats in the synagogues, 23:7the salutations in the marketplaces, and to be called 'Rabbi, 
Rabbi' by men. 23:8But don't you be 
called 'Rabbi,' for one is your teacher, the Christ, and all of you are 
brothers. 23:9Call no man on the 
earth your father, for one is your Father, he who is in heaven. 23:10Neither be called 
masters, for one is your master, the Christ. 23:11But he who is greatest among you will be your servant. 23:12Whoever exalts 
himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted. 
23:13"Woe to you, scribes and 
Pharisees, hypocrites! For you devour widows' houses, and as a pretense you make 
long prayers. Therefore you will receive greater condemnation. 
23:14"But woe to you, 
scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Because you shut up the Kingdom of Heaven 
against men; for you don't enter in yourselves, neither do you allow those who 
are entering in to enter. 23:15Woe to you, 
scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you travel around by sea and land to make 
one proselyte; and when he becomes one, you make him twice as much of a son of 
Gehenna as yourselves. 
23:16"Woe to you, you 
blind guides, who say, 'Whoever swears by the temple, it is nothing; but whoever 
swears by the gold of the temple, he is obligated.' 23:17You blind fools! For which is greater, the gold, or the temple 
that sanctifies the gold? 23:18'Whoever swears by 
the altar, it is nothing; but whoever swears by the gift that is on it, he is 
obligated.' 23:19You blind fools! 
For which is greater, the gift, or the altar that sanctifies the gift? 23:20He therefore who 
swears by the altar, swears by it, and by everything on it. 23:21He who swears by 
the temple, swears by it, and by him who was living in it. 23:22He who swears by 
heaven, swears by the throne of God, and by him who sits on it. 
23:23"Woe to you, 
scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you tithe mint, dill, and cumin, and have left 
undone the weightier matters of the law: justice, mercy, and faith. But you 
ought to have done these, and not to have left the other undone. 23:24You blind guides, 
who strain out a gnat, and swallow a camel! 
23:25"Woe to you, 
scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you clean the outside of the cup and of 
the platter, but within they are full of extortion and unrighteousness.
23:26You blind 
Pharisee, first clean the inside of the cup and of the platter, that the outside 
of it may become clean also. 
23:27"Woe to you, 
scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitened tombs, which 
outwardly appear beautiful, but inwardly are full of dead men's bones, and of 
all uncleanness. 23:28Even so you also 
outwardly appear righteous to men, but inwardly you are full of hypocrisy and 
iniquity. 
23:29"Woe to you, 
scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you build the tombs of the prophets, and 
decorate the tombs of the righteous, 23:30and say, 'If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we wouldn't 
have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets.' 23:31Therefore you 
testify to yourselves that you are children of those who killed the prophets. 
23:32Fill up, then, the 
measure of your fathers. 23:33You serpents, you 
offspring of vipers, how will you escape the judgment of Gehenna? 23:34Therefore, behold, 
I send to you prophets, wise men, and scribes. Some of them you will kill and 
crucify; and some of them you will scourge in your synagogues, and persecute 
from city to city; 23:35that on you may 
come all the righteous blood shed on the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel 
to the blood of Zachariah son of Barachiah, whom you killed between the 
sanctuary and the altar. 23:36Most assuredly I 
tell you, all these things will come upon this generation. 
23:37"Jerusalem, 
Jerusalem, who kills the prophets, and stones those who are sent to her! How 
often would I have gathered your children together, even as a hen gathers her 
chickens under her wings, and you would not! 23:38Behold, your house is left to you desolate. 23:39For I tell you, 
you will not see me from now on, until you say, 'Blessed is he who comes in the 
name of the Lord!'"
24:1Jesus went out from the temple, and was 
going on his way. His disciples came to him to show him the buildings of the 
temple. 24:2But he answered them, "Don't you see all of these things? Most assuredly I tell you, 
there will not be left here one stone on another, that will not be thrown 
down."
24:3As he sat on the Mount of Olives, the 
disciples came to him privately, saying, "Tell us, when will these things be? 
What is the sign of your coming, and of the end of the age?" 
24:4Jesus answered them, "Be careful that no one leads you astray. 24:5For many will come 
in my name, saying, 'I am the Christ,' and will lead many astray. 24:6You will hear of 
wars and rumors of wars. See that you aren't troubled, for all this must happen, 
but the end is not yet. 24:7For nation will 
rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; and there will be famines, 
plagues, and earthquakes in various places. 24:8But all these things are the beginning of birth pains. 24:9Then they will 
deliver you up to oppression, and will kill you. You will be hated by all of the 
nations for my name's sake. 24:10Then many will 
stumble, and will deliver up one another, and will hate one another. 24:11Many false 
prophets will arise, and will lead many astray. 24:12Because iniquity will be multiplied, the love of many will grow 
cold. 24:13But he who endures 
to the end, the same will be saved. 24:14This Gospel of the Kingdom will be preached in the whole world for 
a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come. 
24:15"When, therefore, 
you see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of through Daniel the 
prophet, standing in the holy place (let the reader understand), 24:16then let those who 
are in Judea flee to the mountains. 24:17Let him who is on the housetop not go down to take out things that 
are in his house. 24:18Let him who is in 
the field not return back to get his clothes. 24:19But woe to those who are with child and to nursing mothers in 
those days! 24:20Pray that your 
flight will not be in the winter, nor on a Sabbath, 24:21for then there will be great oppression, such as has not been from 
the beginning of the world until now, no, nor ever will be. 24:22Unless those days 
had been shortened, no flesh would have been saved. But for the sake of the 
chosen ones, those days will be shortened. 
24:23"Then if any man 
tells you, 'Behold, here is the Christ,' or, 'There,' don't believe it. 
24:24For there will 
arise false christs, and false prophets, and they will show great signs and 
wonders, so as to lead astray, if possible, even the chosen ones. 
24:25"Behold, I have 
told you beforehand. 24:26If therefore they 
tell you, 'Behold, he is in the wilderness,' don't go out; 'Behold, he is in the 
inner chambers,' don't believe it. 24:27For as the lightning comes forth from the east, and is seen even 
to the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. 24:28For wherever the 
carcass is, there will the vultures be gathered 
together. 24:29But immediately 
after the oppression of those days, the sun will be darkened, the moon will not 
give its light, the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of the heavens 
will be shaken; 24:30and then the sign 
of the Son of Man will appear in the sky. Then all the tribes of the earth will 
mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky with 
power and great glory. 24:31He will send out 
his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they will gather together his 
chosen ones from the four winds, from one end of the sky to the other. 
24:32"Now from the fig 
tree learn this parable. When its branch has now become tender, and puts forth 
its leaves, you know that the summer is near. 24:33Even so you also, when you see all these things, know that it is 
near, even at the doors. 24:34Most assuredly I 
tell you, this generation will not 
pass away, until all these things are accomplished. 24:35Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. 
24:36But no one knows 
of that day and hour, not even the angels of heaven, but my Father only. 
24:37"As the days of 
Noah were, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. 24:38For as in those days which were before the flood they were eating 
and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day that Noah entered 
into the ark, 24:39and they didn't 
know until the flood came, and took them all away, so will be the coming of the 
Son of Man. 24:40Then two men will 
be in the field: one will be taken and one will be left; 24:41two women grinding 
at the mill, one will be taken and one will be left. 24:42Watch therefore, for you don't know in what hour your Lord comes. 
24:43But know this, 
that if the master of the house had known in what watch of the night the thief 
was coming, he would have watched, and would not have allowed his house to be 
broken into. 24:44Therefore also be 
ready, for in an hour that you don't expect, the Son of Man will come. 
24:45"Who then is the 
faithful and wise servant, whom his lord has set over his household, to give 
them their food in due season? 24:46Blessed is that 
servant whom his lord finds doing so when he comes. 24:47Most assuredly I tell you that he will set him over all that he 
has. 24:48But if that evil 
servant should say in his heart, 'My lord is delaying his coming,' 24:49and begins to beat 
his fellow-servants, and eat and drink with the drunken, 24:50the lord of that 
servant will come in a day when he doesn't expect it, and in an hour when he 
doesn't know it, 24:51and will cut him 
in pieces, and appoint his portion with the hypocrites; there is where the 
weeping and grinding of teeth will be. 
25:1"Then the Kingdom 
of Heaven will be like ten virgins, who took their lamps, and went out to meet 
the bridegroom. 25:2Five of them were 
foolish, and five were wise. 25:3Those who were 
foolish, when they took their lamps, took no oil with them, 25:4but the wise took 
oil in their vessels with their lamps. 25:5Now while the bridegroom delayed, they all slumbered and slept. 
25:6But at midnight 
there was a cry, 'Behold! The bridegroom is coming! Come out to meet him!' 
25:7Then all those 
virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps. 25:8The foolish said to the wise, 'Give us some of your oil, for our 
lamps are going out.' 25:9But the wise 
answered, saying, 'What if there isn't enough for us and you? You go rather to 
those who sell, and buy for yourselves.' 25:10While they went away to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who 
were ready went in with him to the marriage feast, and the door was shut. 
25:11Afterward the 
other virgins also came, saying, 'Lord, Lord, open to us.' 25:12But he answered, 
'Most assuredly I tell you, I don't know you.' 25:13Watch therefore, for you don't know the day nor the hour in which 
the Son of Man is coming. 
25:14"For it is like a 
man, going into another country, who called his own servants, and entrusted his 
goods to them. 25:15To one he gave 
five talents, to another two, to another one; to each according to his own 
ability. Then he went on his journey. 25:16Immediately he who received the five talents went and traded with 
them, and made another five talents. 25:17In like manner he also who got the two gained another two. 
25:18But he who 
received the one went away and dug in the earth, and hid his lord's money. 
25:19"Now after a long 
time the lord of those servants came, and reconciled accounts with them. 
25:20He who received 
the five talents came and brought another five talents, saying, 'Lord, you 
delivered to me five talents. Behold, I have gained another five talents besides 
them.' 
25:21"His lord said to 
him, 'Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few 
things, I will set you over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.' 
25:22"He also who got 
the two talents came and said, 'Lord, you delivered to me two talents. Behold, I 
have gained another two talents besides them.' 
25:23"His lord said to 
him, 'Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few 
things, I will set you over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.' 
25:24"He also who had 
received the one talent came and said, 'Lord, I knew you that you are a hard 
man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you did not scatter. 
25:25I was afraid, and 
went away and hid your talent in the earth. Behold, you have what is yours.' 
25:26"But his lord 
answered him, 'You wicked and slothful servant. You knew that I reap where I 
didn't sow, and gather where I didn't scatter. 25:27You ought therefore to have deposited my money with the bankers, 
and at my coming I should have received back my own with interest. 25:28Take away 
therefore the talent from him, and give it to him who has the ten talents. 
25:29For to everyone 
who has will be given, and he will have abundance, but from him who has not, 
even that which he has will be taken away. 25:30Throw out the unprofitable servant into the outer darkness, where 
there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.' 
25:31"But when the Son 
of Man comes in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then he will sit on 
the throne of his glory. 25:32Before him all the 
nations will be gathered, and he will separate them one from another, as a 
shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. 25:33He will set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the 
left. 25:34Then the King will 
tell those on his right hand, 'Come, blessed of my Father, inherit the Kingdom 
prepared for you from the foundation of the world; 25:35for I was hungry, and you gave me food to eat; I was thirsty, and 
you gave me drink; I was a stranger, and you took me in; 25:36naked, and you 
clothed me; I was sick, and you visited me; I was in prison, and you came to 
me.' 
25:37"Then the 
righteous will answer him, saying, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry, and feed 
you; or thirsty, and give you a drink? 25:38When did we see you as a stranger, and take you in; or naked, and 
clothe you? 25:39When did we see 
you sick, or in prison, and come to you?' 
25:40"The King will 
answer them, 'Most assuredly I tell you, inasmuch as you did it to one of the 
least of these my brothers, you did it 
to me.' 25:41Then he will say 
also to those on the left hand, 'Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal 
fire which is prepared for the devil and his angels; 25:42for I was hungry, and you didn't give me food to eat; I was 
thirsty, and you gave me no drink; 25:43I was a stranger, and you didn't take me in; naked, and you didn't 
clothe me; sick, and in prison, and you didn't visit me.' 
25:44"Then they will 
also answer, saying, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry, or thirsty, or a 
stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and didn't help you?' 
25:45"Then he will 
answer them, saying, 'Most assuredly I tell you, inasmuch as you didn't do it to 
one of the least of these, you didn't do it to me.' 25:46These will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into 
eternal life."
26:1It happened, when Jesus had finished 
all these words, that he said to his disciples, 26:2"You know that after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son 
of Man will be delivered up to be crucified."
26:3Then the chief priests, the scribes, 
and the elders of the people were gathered together in the court of the high 
priest, who was called Caiaphas. 26:4They took counsel together that they 
might take Jesus by deceit, and kill him. 26:5But they said, "Not 
during the feast, lest a riot occur among the people." 
26:6Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the 
house of Simon the leper, 26:7a woman came to him having an alabaster 
jar of very expensive ointment, and she poured it on his head as he sat at the 
table. 26:8But when his disciples saw this, they 
were indignant, saying, "Why this waste? 26:9For this ointment might have been sold 
for much, and given to the poor." 
26:10But Jesus, knowing this, said to them, 
"Why do you trouble the woman? Because she has done a good 
work for me. 26:11For you always 
have the poor with you; but you don't always have me. 26:12For in pouring 
this ointment on my body, she did it to prepare me for burial. 26:13Most assuredly I 
tell you, wherever this Gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman 
has done will also be spoken of as a memorial of her."
26:14Then one of the twelve, who was called 
Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests, 26:15and said, "What 
are you willing to give me, that I should deliver him to you?" They weighed out 
for him thirty pieces of silver. 26:16From that time he sought opportunity 
to betray him. 
26:17Now on the first day of unleavened 
bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying to him, "Where do you want us to 
prepare for you to eat the Passover?" 
26:18He said, "Go into 
the city to a certain person, and tell him, 'The Teacher says, "My time is at 
hand. I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples."'"
26:19The disciples did as Jesus commanded 
them, and they prepared the Passover. 26:20Now when evening had come, he was 
reclining at the table with the twelve disciples. 26:21As they were 
eating, he said, "Most assuredly I tell you that one of you 
will betray me."
26:22They were exceedingly sorrowful, and 
each began to ask him, "It isn't me, is it, Lord?" 
26:23He answered, "He 
who dipped his hand with me in the dish, the same will betray me. 26:24The Son of Man 
goes, even as it is written of him, but woe to that man through whom the Son of 
Man is betrayed! It would be better for that man if he had not been 
born."
26:25Judas, who betrayed him, answered, "It 
isn't me, is it, Rabbi?" 
He said to him, "You said it."
26:26As they were eating, Jesus took bread, 
gave thanks for 
it, and broke it. He gave to the disciples, and said, "Take, 
eat; this is my body." 26:27He took the cup, gave thanks, and gave 
to them, saying, "All of you drink it, 26:28for this is my 
blood of the new covenant, which is poured out for many for the remission of 
sins. 26:29But I tell you 
that I will not drink of this fruit of the vine from now on, until that day when 
I drink it anew with you in my Father's Kingdom." 26:30When they had sung 
a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. 
26:31Then Jesus said to them, "All of you will be made to stumble because of me tonight, for it 
is written, 'I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be 
scattered.' 26:32But after I am 
raised up, I will go before you into Galilee."
26:33But Peter answered him, "Even if all 
will be made to stumble because of you, I will never be made to stumble." 
26:34Jesus said to him, "Most assuredly I tell you that tonight, before the rooster crows, 
you will deny me three times."
26:35Peter said to him, "Even if I must die 
with you, I will not deny you." All of the disciples also said likewise. 
26:36Then Jesus came with them to a place 
called Gethsemane, and said to his disciples, "Sit here, 
while I go there and pray." 26:37He took with him Peter and the two 
sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and severely troubled. 26:38Then he said to them, "My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Stay here, and 
watch with me."
26:39He went forward a little, fell on his 
face, and prayed, saying, "My Father, if it is possible, let 
this cup pass away from me; nevertheless, not what I desire, but what you 
desire."
26:40He came to the disciples, and found 
them sleeping, and said to Peter, "What, couldn't you watch 
with me for one hour? 26:41Watch and pray, 
that you don't enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the 
flesh is weak."
26:42Again, a second time he went away, and 
prayed, saying, "My Father, if this cup can't pass away from 
me unless I drink it, your desire be done." 26:43He came again and 
found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy. 26:44He left them 
again, went away, and prayed a third time, saying the same words. 26:45Then he came to his disciples, and 
said to them, "Sleep on now, and take your rest. Behold, the 
hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. 
26:46Arise, let's be 
going. Behold, he who betrays me is at hand."
26:47While he was still speaking, behold, 
Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great multitude with swords and 
clubs, from the chief priest and elders of the people. 26:48Now he who 
betrayed him gave them a sign, saying, "Whoever I kiss, he is the one. Seize 
him." 26:49Immediately he came to Jesus, and 
said, "Hail, Rabbi!" and kissed him. 
26:50Jesus said to him, "Friend, why are you here?" Then they came and laid hands 
on Jesus, and took him. 26:51Behold, one of those who were with 
Jesus stretched out his hand, and drew his sword, and struck the servant of the 
high priest, and struck off his ear. 26:52Then Jesus said to him, "Put your sword back into its place, for all those who take the 
sword will die by the sword. 26:53Or do you think 
that I couldn't ask my Father, and he would even now send me more than twelve 
legions of angels? 26:54How then would the 
Scriptures be fulfilled that it must be so?"
26:55In that hour Jesus said to the 
multitudes, "Have you come out as against a robber with 
swords and clubs to seize me? I sat daily in the temple teaching, and you didn't 
arrest me. 26:56But all this has 
happened, that the Scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled."
Then all the disciples left him, and fled. 26:57Those who had 
taken Jesus led him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the 
elders were gathered together. 26:58But Peter followed him from a 
distance, to the court of the high priest, and entered in and sat with the 
officers, to see the end. 26:59Now the chief priests, the elders, and 
the whole council sought false testimony against Jesus, that they might put him 
to death; 26:60and they found none. Even though many 
false witnesses came forward, they found none. But at last two false witnesses 
came forward, 26:61and said, "This man said, 'I am able 
to destroy the temple of God, and to build it in three days.'" 
26:62The high priest stood up, and said to 
him, "Have you no answer? What is this that these testify against you?" 26:63But Jesus held his peace. The high 
priest answered him, "I adjure you by the living God, that you tell us whether 
you are the Christ, the Son of God." 
26:64Jesus said to him, "You have said it. Nevertheless, I tell you, henceforth you will 
see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of Power, and coming on the clouds 
of the sky."
26:65Then the high priest tore his 
clothing, saying, "He has spoken blasphemy! Why do we need any more witnesses? 
Behold, now you have heard his blasphemy. 26:66What do you 
think?" 
They answered, "He is worthy of death!" 26:67Then they spit in 
his face and beat him with their fists, and some slapped him, 26:68saying, "Prophesy to us, you Christ! 
Who hit you?" 
26:69Now Peter was sitting outside in the 
court, and a maid came to him, saying, "You were also with Jesus, the Galilean!" 

26:70But he denied it before them all, 
saying, "I don't know what you are talking about." 
26:71When he had gone out onto the porch, 
someone else saw him, and said to those who were there, "This man also was with 
Jesus of Nazareth." 
26:72Again he denied it with an oath, "I 
don't know the man." 
26:73After a little while those who stood 
by came and said to Peter, "Surely you are also one of them, for your speech 
makes you known." 
26:74Then he began to curse and to swear, 
"I don't know the man!" 
Immediately the rooster crowed. 26:75Peter remembered the word which Jesus 
had said to him, "Before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times." He 
went out and wept bitterly. 
27:1Now when morning had come, all the 
chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him 
to death: 27:2and they bound him, and led him away, 
and delivered him up to Pontius Pilate, the governor. 27:3Then Judas, who 
betrayed him, when he saw that Jesus was condemned, felt remorse, and brought 
back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders, 27:4saying, "I have sinned in that I 
betrayed innocent blood." 
But they said, "What is that to us? You see to it." 
27:5He threw down the pieces of silver in 
the sanctuary, and departed. He went away and hanged himself. 27:6The chief priests took the pieces of 
silver, and said, "It's not lawful to put them into the treasury, since it is 
the price of blood." 27:7They took counsel, and bought the 
potter's field with them, to bury strangers in. 27:8Therefore that 
field was called "The Field of Blood" to this day. 27:9Then that which was 
spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled, saying, 
 "They took the thirty pieces of 
silver,      The price of him upon whom a 
price had been set,      Whom some of the 
children of Israel priced, 
 27:10And they gave them for the potter's 
field,      As the Lord commanded me." 
27:11Now Jesus stood before the governor: 
and the governor asked him, saying, "Are you the King of the Jews?" 
Jesus said to him, "So you say."
27:12When he was accused by the chief 
priests and elders, he answered nothing. 27:13Then Pilate said 
to him, "Don't you hear how many things they testify against you?" 
27:14He gave him no answer, not even one 
word, so that the governor marveled greatly. 27:15Now at the feast 
the governor was accustomed to release to the multitude one prisoner, whom they 
desired. 27:16They had then a notable prisoner, 
called Barabbas. 27:17When therefore they were gathered 
together, Pilate said to them, "Whom do you want me to release to you? Barabbas, 
or Jesus, who is called Christ?" 27:18For he knew that because of envy they 
had delivered him up. 
27:19While he was sitting on the judgment 
seat, his wife sent to him, saying, "Have nothing to do with that righteous man, 
for I have suffered many things this day in a dream because of him." 27:20Now the chief priests and the elders 
persuaded the multitudes to ask for Barabbas, and destroy Jesus. 27:21But the governor answered them, "Which 
of the two do you want me to release to you?" 
They said, "Barabbas!" 
27:22Pilate said to them, "What then shall 
I do to Jesus, who is called Christ?" 
They all said to him, "Let him be crucified!" 
27:23But the governor said, "Why? What evil 
has he done?" 
But they cried out exceedingly, saying, "Let him be crucified!" 
27:24So when Pilate saw that nothing was 
being gained, but rather that a disturbance was starting, he took water, and 
washed his hands before the multitude, saying, "I am innocent of the blood of 
this righteous person. You see to it." 
27:25All the people answered, "May his 
blood be on us, and on our children!" 
27:26Then he released to them Barabbas, but 
Jesus he flogged and delivered to be crucified. 27:27Then the 
governor's soldiers took Jesus into the Praetorium, and gathered the whole 
garrison together against him. 27:28They stripped him, and put a scarlet 
robe on him. 27:29They braided a crown of thorns and put 
it on his head, and a reed in his right hand; and they kneeled down before him, 
and mocked him, saying, "Hail, King of the Jews!" 27:30They spat on him, 
and took the reed and struck him on the head. 27:31When they had 
mocked him, they took the robe off of him, and put his clothes on him, and led 
him away to crucify him. 
27:32As they came out, they found a man of 
Cyrene, Simon by name, and they compelled him to go with them, that he might 
carry his cross. 27:33They came to a place called 
"Golgotha," that is to say, "The place of a skull." 27:34They gave him sour 
wine to drink mixed with gall. When he had tasted it, he would not drink. 27:35When they had crucified him, they 
divided his clothing among them, casting lots,*
27:36and they sat and watched him there. 27:37They set up over his head the 
accusation against him written, "THIS IS JESUS, THE KING OF THE JEWS." 
27:38Then there were two robbers crucified 
with him, one on his right hand and one on the left. 27:39Those who passed 
by blasphemed him, wagging their heads, 27:40and saying, "You who destroy the 
temple, and build it in three days, save yourself! If you are the Son of God, 
come down from the cross!" 
27:41Likewise the chief priests also 
mocking, with the scribes, the Pharisees, and 
the elders, said, 27:42"He saved others, but he can't save 
himself. If he is the King of Israel, let him come down from the cross now, and 
we will believe in him. 27:43He trusts in God. Let God deliver him 
now, if he wants him; for he said, 'I am the Son of God.'" 27:44The robbers also 
who were crucified with him cast on him the same reproach. 
27:45Now from the sixth hour there was 
darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. 27:46About the ninth hour Jesus cried with 
a loud voice, saying, "Eli, Eli, lima 
sabachthani?" That is, "My God, my God, why have you 
forsaken me?"
27:47Some of them who stood there, when 
they heard it, said, "This man is calling Elijah." 
27:48Immediately one of them ran, and took 
a sponge, and filled it with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him a 
drink. 27:49The rest said, "Let him be. Let's see 
whether Elijah comes to save him." 
27:50Jesus cried again with a loud voice, 
and yielded up his spirit. 27:51Behold, the veil of the temple was 
torn in two from the top to the bottom. The earth quaked and the rocks were 
split. 27:52The tombs were opened, and many bodies 
of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised; 27:53and coming out of 
the tombs after his resurrection, they entered into the holy city and appeared 
to many. 27:54Now the centurion, and those who were 
with him watching Jesus, when they saw the earthquake, and the things that were 
done, feared exceedingly, saying, "Truly this was the Son of God." 
27:55Many women were there watching from 
afar, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, serving him. 27:56Among them were 
Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of the sons 
of Zebedee. 27:57When evening had come, a rich man from 
Arimathaea, named Joseph, who himself was also Jesus' disciple came. 27:58This man went to Pilate, and asked for 
Jesus' body. Then Pilate commanded the body to be given up. 27:59Joseph took the 
body, and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, 27:60and laid it in his 
own new tomb, which he had hewn out in the rock, and he rolled a great stone to 
the door of the tomb, and departed. 27:61Mary Magdalene was there, and the 
other Mary, sitting opposite the tomb. 27:62Now on the next day, which was the day 
after the Preparation Day, the chief priests and the Pharisees were gathered 
together to Pilate, 27:63saying, "Sir, we remember what that 
deceiver said while he was still alive: 'After three days I will rise again.' 27:64Command therefore that the tomb be 
made secure until the third day, lest perhaps his disciples come at night and 
steal him away, and tell the people, 'He is risen from the dead;' and the last 
deception will be worse than the first." 
27:65Pilate said to them, "You have a 
guard. Go, make it as secure as you can." 27:66So they went with 
the guard and made the tomb secure, sealing the stone. 
28:1Now after the Sabbath, as it began to 
dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see 
the tomb. 28:2Behold, there was a great earthquake, 
for an angel of the Lord descended from the sky, and came and rolled away the 
stone from the door, and sat on it. 28:3His appearance was like lightning, and 
his clothing white as snow. 28:4For fear of him, the guards shook, and 
became like dead men. 28:5The angel answered the women, "Don't be 
afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus, who has been crucified. 28:6He 
is not here, for he has risen, just like he said. Come, see the place where the 
Lord was lying. 28:7Go quickly and tell his disciples, 'He 
has risen from the dead, and behold, he goes before you into Galilee; there you 
will see him.' Behold, I have told you." 
28:8They departed quickly from the tomb 
with fear and great joy, and ran to bring his disciples word. 28:9As 
they went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, "Rejoice!"
They came and took hold of his feet, and worshiped him. 
28:10Then Jesus said to them, "Don't be afraid. Go tell my brothers that they 
should go into Galilee, and there they will see me."
28:11Now while they were going, behold, 
some of the guards came into the city, and told the chief priests all the things 
that had happened. 28:12When they were assembled with the 
elders, and had taken counsel, they gave a large amount of silver to the 
soldiers, 28:13saying, "Say that his disciples came 
by night, and stole him away while we slept. 28:14If this comes to 
the governor's ears, we will persuade him and make you free of worry." 28:15So they took the money and did as they 
were told. This saying was spread abroad among the Jews, and continues until 
this day. 
28:16But the eleven disciples went into 
Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had sent them. 28:17When they saw him, 
they bowed down to him, but some doubted. 28:18Jesus came to them 
and spoke to them, saying, "All authority has been given to 
me in heaven and on earth. 28:19Therefore go, and 
make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of 
the Son and of the Holy Spirit, 28:20teaching them to 
observe all things that I commanded you. Behold, I am with you always, even to 
the end of the age." Amen. 




Notes:
[1] back to 1:1 Christ 
(Greek) and Messiah (Hebrew) both mean "Anointed One"
[2] back to 1:16 
"Jesus" is a Greek variant of the Jewish name "Yehoshua," which means "Yah 
saves." "Jesus" is also the masculine form of "Yeshu'ah," which means 
"Salvation."
[3] back to 2:1 The word 
for "wise men" (magoi) can also mean teachers, priests, physicians, astrologers, 
seers, interpreters of dreams, or sorcerers.
[4] back to 3:11 TR and 
NU add "and with fire"
[5] back to 4:10 TR and 
NU read "Go away" instead of "Get behind me"
[6] back to 4:18 TR 
reads "Jesus" instead of "he"
[7] back to 5:18 
literally, iota
[8] back to 5:18 or, 
serif
[9] back to 5:22 "Raca" 
is an Aramaic insult, related to the word for "empty" and conveying the idea of 
empty-headedness.
[10] back to 5:22 
Gehenna is another name for Hell that brings to mind an image of a burning 
garbage dump with dead bodies in it.
[11] back to 5:26 
Literally, kodrantes. A kodrantes was a small copper coin worth about 2 lepta 
(widow's mites)--not enough to buy very much of anything.
[12] back to 5:27 TR 
adds "to the ancients,"
[13] back to 7:14 TR 
reads "Because" instead of "How"
[14] back to 8:15 TR 
reads "them" instead of "him"
[15] back to 9:36 TR 
reads "weary" instead of "harassed"
[16] back to 10:8 TR 
adds ", raise the dead"
[17] back to 10:29 An 
assarion is a small coin worth one tenth of a drachma or a sixteenth of a 
denarius (approximately the wages of one half hour of agricultural labor).
[18] back to 12:35 TR 
adds "of the heart"
[19] back to 13:25 
darnel is a weed grass (probably bearded darnel or lolium temulentum) that looks 
very much like wheat until it is mature, when the difference becomes very 
apparent.
[20] back to 13:33 
Literally, satas. 3 satas = about 0.5 bushel or 22 litres
[21] back to 14:25 The 
night was equally divided into four watches, so the fourth watch is 
approximately 3:00 A. M. to sunrise.
[22] back to 14:27 see 
Exodus 3:14.
[23] back to 16:18 
Peter's name, Petros in Greek, is the word for a specific rock or stone.
[24] back to 16:18 
Greek, petra, a rock mass or bedrock.
[25] back to 17:24 A 
didrachma is a Greek silver coin worth 2 drachmas, about as much as 2 Roman 
denarii, or about 2 days wages. It was commonly used to pay the half-shekel 
temple tax, because 2 drachmas were worth one half shekel of silver.
[26] back to 17:27 A 
stater is a silver coin equivalent to four Attic or two Alexandrian drachmas, or 
a Jewish shekel: just exactly enough to cover the half-shekel Temple Tax for two 
people.
[27] back to 18:9 or, 
Hell
[28] back to 18:24 Ten 
thousand talents represents an extremely large sum of money, equivalent to about 
60,000,000 denarii, where one denarius was typical of one day's wages for 
agricultural labor.
[29] back to 18:28 100 
denarii was about one sixtieth of a talent.
[30] back to 20:2 A 
denarius is a silver Roman coin worth 1/25th of a Roman aureus. This was a 
common wage for a day of farm labor.
[31] back to 20:3 Time 
was measured from sunrise to sunset, so the third hour would be about 9:00 AM.
[32] back to 20:5 noon 
and 3:00 P. M.
[33] back to 20:6 5:00 
PM
[34] back to 20:26 TR 
reads "let him be" instead of "shall be"
[35] back to 21:1 TR 
reads "Bethphage" instead of "Bethsphage"
[36] back to 23:14 Some 
Greek manuscripts reverse the order of verses 13 and 14, and some omit verse 13, 
numbering verse 14 as 13.
[37] back to 23:23 
cumin is an aromatic seed from Cuminum cyminum, resembling caraway in flavor and 
appearance. It is used as a spice.
[38] back to 23:25 TR 
reads "self-indulgence" instead of "unrighteousness"
[39] back to 24:28 or, 
eagles
[40] back to 24:34 The 
word for "generation" (genea) can also be translated as "race."
[41] back to 25:40 The 
word for "brothers" here may be also correctly translated "brothers and sisters" 
or "siblings."
[42] back to 26:26 TR 
reads "blessed" instead of "gave thanks for"
[43] back to 27:35 TR 
adds "that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet: 'They divided 
my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots;'" [see Psalm 22:18 
and John 19:24]
[44] back to 27:41 TR 
omits "the Pharisees"
[45] back to 27:45 noon
[46] back to 27:45 3:00 
P. M.
[47] back to 27:46 TR 
reads "lama" instead of "lima"
[48] back to 28:10 The 
word for "brothers" here may be also correctly translated "brothers and sisters" 
or "siblings." 


[Index]   [Home]   [Report typo]
HTML generated 21 July 2001. 10618 visits since 10 March 2001. 


