
Fragments of Maximus of Jerusalem












Maximus Bishop of 
Jerusalem.
[a.d. 185-196.] He was a noted character among Christians, according to 
Eusebius; living, according to Jerome, under Commodus and Severus. He wrote on 
the inveterate question concerning the Origin of Evil; and the fragment 
here translated, as given by Eusebius, is also textually cited by Origen against 
the Marcionites, 
if that Dialogue be his. The reader will not fail to recollect that liberal 
citations out of this work are also to be found in Methodius, On 
Free-Will. 
But all who desire fuller information on the subject will be gratified by the 
learned prolegomena and notes of Routh, to which I refer them. 
Whether Maximus was the bishop of Jerusalem (a.d. 185) mentioned by Eusebius as 
presiding in that See in the sixth year of Commodus, seems to be uncertain.

From the Book Concerning Matter, or 
  in Defence of the Proposition that Matter is Created, and is Not the Cause of 
  Evil. 
  
"That there cannot exist two uncreated substances at one and the same 
time, I presume that you hold equally with myself. You appear, however, 
very decidedly to have assumed, and to have introduced into the argument, this 
principle, that we must of unavoidable necessity maintain one of two 
things: either that God is separate from matter; or else, on the contrary, that 
He is indissolubly connected with it.
"If, then, any one should choose to assert that He exists in union with 
matter, that would be saying that there is only one uncreated 
substance. For either of the two must constitute a part of the other; 
and, since they form parts of each other, they cannot be two uncreated 
substances. Just as, in speaking of man, we do not describe him as 
subdivided into a number of distinct parts, each forming a separate created 
substance, but, as reason requires us to do, assert that he was made by 
God a single created substance consisting of many parts,-so, in like 
manner, if God is not separate from matter, we are driven to the conclusion that 
there is only one uncreated substance.
"If, on the other hand, it be affirmed that He is separate from 
matter, it necessarily follows that there is some other substance 
intermediate between the two, by which their separation is made apparent. For it 
is impossible that one thing should be shown to be severed by an interval from 
another, unless there be something else by which the interval between the two is 
produced. This principle, too, holds good not only with regard to this or 
any other single case, but in any number of cases you please For the same 
argument which we have employed in dealing with the two uncreated 
substances must in like manner be valid if the substances in 
question be given as three. For in regard to these also I should have 
to inquire whether they are separate from one another, or whether, on the 
contrary, each of them is united to its fellow. For, if you should say that they 
are united, you would hear from me the same argument as before; but if, on the 
contrary, you should say that they are separate, you could not escape the 
unavoidable assumption of a separating medium.
"If, again, perchance any one should think that there is a third view which 
may be consistently maintained with regard to uncreated 
substances,-namely, that God is not separate from matter, nor yet, on the 
other hand, united to it as a part, but that God exists in matter as in a place, 
or possibly matter exists in God,-let such a person observe the 
consequence:-
"That, if we make matter God's place, we must of necessity admit that He can 
be contained, 
and that He is circumscribed by matter. Nay, further, he must grant that He is, 
in the same way as matter, driven about hither and thither, unable to maintain 
His place and to stay where He is, since that in which He exists is perpetually 
being driven about in one direction or another. Beside this, he must also admit 
that God has had His place among the worst kind of elements. For if 
matter was once in disorder, and if he reduced it to order for the purpose of 
rendering it better, there was a time when God existed among the 
disordered elements of matter.
"I might also fairly put this question: whether God filled the whole of 
matter, or was in some part of it. If any one should choose to say that God was 
in some part of matter, he would be making Him indefinitely smaller than matter, 
inasmuch as a part of it contained the whole of Him; 
but, if he maintained that He pervaded the whole of matter, I need to be 
informed how He became the Fashioner of this matter. For we must 
necessarily assume, either that there was on the part of God a 
contraction, 
so to speak, of Himself, and a withdrawal from matter, whereupon He 
proceeded to fashion that from which He bad retired; or else that He fashioned 
Himself in conjunction with matter, in consequence of having no place to retire 
to.
"But suppose it to be maintained, on the other hand, that matter is in God, 
it will behove us similarly to inquire, whether we are to understand by this 
that He is sundered from Himself, and that, just like the air, which contains 
various kinds of animals, so is He sundered and divided into parts for 
the reception of those creatures which from time to time exist in 
Him; or whether matter is in God as in a place,-for instance, as water is 
contained in earth. For should we say `as in air, 'we should perforce be 
speaking of God as divisible into parts; but if `as water in earth, 'and if 
matter was, as is admitted, in confusion and disorder, and moreover also 
contained what was evil, we should have to admit that God is the place of 
disorder and evil. But this it does not seem to me consistent with reverence to 
say, but hazardous rather. For you contend that matter is uncreated, 
that you may not have to admit that God is the author of evil; and yet, while 
aiming to escape this difficulty, you make Him the receptacle of 
evil.
"If you had stated that your suspicion that matter was uncreated arose from 
the nature of created things as we find them, 
I should have employed abundant argument in proof that it cannot be so. But, 
since you have spoken of the existence of evil as the cause of such suspicion, I 
am disposed to enter upon a separate examination of this point. For, when 
once it has been made clear how it is that evil exists, and when it is seen to 
be impossible to deny that God is the author of evil, in consequence of His 
having had recourse to matter for His materials, 
it seems to me that a suspicion of this kind disappears.
"You assert, then, that matter, destitute of all qualities good or 
bad, co-existed at the outset with God, and that out of it He fashioned the 
world as we now find it."
"Such is my opinion."
"Well, then, if matter was without any qualities, and the world has come into 
existence from God, and if the world possesses qualities, the author of those 
qualities must be God."
"Exactly so."
"Since, too, I heard you say yourself just now that out of nothing 
nothing can possibly come, give me an answer to the question I am about to ask 
you. You seem to me to think that the qualities of the world have not sprung 
from pre-existing 
qualities, and moreover that they are something different from the substances 
themselves."
"I do."
"If, therefore, God did not produce the qualities in question from 
qualities already existing, nor yet from substances, by reason that they are not 
substances, the conclusion is inevitable, that they were made by God out of 
nothing. So that you seemed to me to affirm more than you were warranted to do, 
when you said that it had been proved impossible to hold the opinion 
that anything was made by God out of nothing.
"But let us put the matter thus. We see persons among ourselves making 
certain things out of nothing, however true it may be that they make them by 
means of something. 
Let us take our illustration, say, from builders. These men do not make cities 
out of cities; nor, similarly, temples out of temples. Nay, if you suppose that, 
because the substances necessary for these constructions are 
already provided, therefore they make them out of that which already exists, 
your reasoning is fallacious. For it is not the substance that makes the city or 
the temples, but the art which is employed about the substance. Neither, again, 
does the art proceed from any art inhering in the substances, but it arises 
independently of any such art in them.
"But I fancy you will meet the argument by saying that the artist produces 
the art which is manifest in the substance he has fashioned out of 
the art which he himself already has. In reply to this, however, I think 
it may be fairly said, that neither in man does art spring from any already 
existing art. For we cannot possibly allow that art exists by itself, since it 
belongs to the class of things which are accidentals, and which receive their 
existence only when they appear in connection with substance. For man 
will exist though there should be no architecture, but the latter will have no 
existence unless there be first of all man. Thus we cannot avoid the conclusion, 
that it is the nature of art to spring up in man out of nothing. If, then, we 
have shown that this is the case with man, we surely must allow that God can 
make not only the qualities of substances out of nothing, but also the 
substances themselves. For, if it appears possible that anything 
whatever can be made out of nothing, it is proved that this may be the 
case with substances also.
"But, since you are specially desirous of inquiring about the origin of evil, 
I will proceed to the discussion of this topic. And I should like to ask you a 
few questions. Is it your opinion that things evil are substances, or that they 
are qualities of substances? "
"Qualities of substances, I am disposed to say."
"But matter was destitute of qualities and of form: this I assumed at the 
outset of the discussion. Therefore, if things evil are qualities of substances, 
and matter was destitute of qualities, and you have called God the author of 
qualities, God will also be the former of that which is evil. Since, then, it is 
not possible, on this supposition any more than on the other, to speak of God as 
not the cause of evil, it seems to me superfluous to add matter to Him, as if 
that were the cause of evil. If you have any reply to make to this, begin 
your argument."
"If, indeed, our discussion had arisen from a love of contention, I should 
not be willing to have the inquiry raised a second time about the origin 
of evil; but, since we are prompted rather by friendship and the good of our 
neighbour to engage in controversy, I readily consent to have the question 
raised afresh on this subject. You have no doubt long been aware of the 
character of my mind, and of the object at which I aim in dispute: that I have 
no wish to vanquish falsehood by plausible reasoning, but rather that truth 
should be established in connection with thorough investigation. You yourself, 
too, are of the same mind, I am well assured. Whatever method, therefore, you 
deem successful for the discovery of truth, do not shrink from using it. For, by 
following a better course of argument, you will not only confer a benefit on 
yourself, but most assuredly on me also, instructing me concerning 
matters of which I am ignorant."
"You seem clearly to agree with 
me, that things evil are in some sort substances: 
for, apart from substances, I do not see them to have any existence. Since, 
then, my good friend, you say that things evil are substances, it is necessary 
to inquire into the nature of substance. Is it your opinion that substance is a 
kind of bodily structure? " 

"It is."
"And does that bodily structure exist by itself, without the need of any one 
to come and give it existence? "
"Yes."
"And does it seem to you that things evil are connected with certain 
courses of action? "
"That is my belief."
"And do actions come into existence only when an actor is there? "
"Yes."
"And, when there is no actor, neither will his action ever take place? "
"It will not."
"If, therefore, substance is a kind of bodily structure, and this does not 
stand in need of some one in and through whom it may receive its existence, and 
if things evil are actions of some one, and actions require some one in and 
through whom they receive their existence, -things evil will `not' be 
substances. And if things evil are not substances, and murder is an evil, 
and is the action of some one, it follows that murder is not a substance. 
But, if you insist that agents are substance, then I myself agree with you. A 
man, for instance, who is a murderer, is, in so far as he is a man, a substance; 
but the murder which he commits is not a substance, but a work of the substance. 
Moreover, we speak of a man sometimes as had because he commits murder; and 
sometimes, again, because he performs acts of beneficence, as good: and these 
names adhere to the substance, in consequence of the things which are accidents 
of it, which, however, are not the substance itself. For neither 
is the substance murder, nor, again, is it adultery, nor is it any other 
similar evil. But, just as the grammarian derives his name from grammar, and the 
orator from oratory, and the physician from physic, though the substance is not 
physic, nor yet oratory, nor grammar, but receives its appellation from the 
things which are accidents of it, from which it popularly receives its name, 
though it is not any one of them,-so in like manner it appears to me that the 
substance receives name from things regarded as evil, though it is not 
itself any one of them.
"I must beg you also to consider that, if you represent some other being as 
the cause of evil to men, he also, in so far as he acts in them, and incites 
them to do evil, is himself evil, by reason of the things he does. For he too is 
said to be evil, for the simple reason that he is the doer of evil things; but 
the things which a being does are not the being himself, but his actions, from 
which he receives his appellation, and is called evil. For if we should say that 
the things he does are himself, and these consist in murder, and adultery, and 
theft, and such-like, these things will be himself. And if these things are 
himself, and if when they take place they get to have a substantial 
existence, 
but by not taking place they also cease to exist, and if these things are done 
by men,-men will be the doers of these things, and the causes of existing and of 
no longer existing. But, if you affirm that these things are his actions, he 
gets to be evil from the things he does, not from those things of which the 
substance of him consists.
"Moreover, we have said that he is called evil from those things which are 
accidents of the substance, which are not themselves the substance: as a 
physician from the art of physic. But, if he receives the beginning of his 
existence from the actions he performs, he too began to be evil, and these evil 
things likewise began to exist. And, if so, an evil being will not be without a 
beginning, nor will evil things be unoriginated, since we have said that they 
are originated by him." 
"The argument relating to the opinion I before expressed, you seem to me, my 
friend, to have handled satisfactorily: for, from the premises you assumed in 
the discussion, I think you have drawn a fair conclusion. For, beyond doubt, if 
matter was at first destitute of qualities, and if God is the fashioner 
of the qualities it now has, and if evil things are qualities, God is the 
author of those evil things. The argument, then, relating to that opinion 
we may consider as well discussed, and to me it now seems false to speak 
of matter as destitute of qualities. For it is not possible to say of any 
substance 
whatsoever that it is without qualities. For, in the very act of saying that it 
is destitute of qualities, you do in fact indicate its quality, 
representing of what kind matter is, which of course is ascribing to it a 
species of quality. Wherefore, if it is agreeable to you, rehearse the argument 
to me from the beginning: for, to me, matter seems to have had qualifies from 
all eternity. 
For in this way I can affirm that evil things also come from it in the 
way of emanation, so that the cause of evil things may not be ascribed to God, 
but that matter may be regarded as the cause of all such things."
"I approve your desire, my friend, and praise the zeal you manifest in the 
discussion of opinions. For it assuredly becomes every one who is desirous of 
knowledge, not simply and out of hand to agree with what is said, but to make a 
careful examination of the arguments adduced. For, though a disputant, by 
laying down false premises, may make his opponent draw the conclusion he wishes, 
yet he will not convince a hearer of this; but only when he says that 
which 
it seems possible to say with fairness. So that one of two things will happen: 
either he will, as he listens, be decisively helped to reach that 
conclusion towards which he already feels himself impelled, or he 
will convict his adversary of not speaking the truth.
"Now, it seems to me that you have not sufficiently discussed the statement 
that matter has qualities from the first. For, if this is the case, what will 
God be the maker of? For, if we speak of substances, we affirm these to exist 
beforehand; or if again of qualities, we declare these also to exist already. 
Since, therefore both substance and qualities exist, it seems to me unreasonable 
to call God a creator.
"But, lest I should seem to be constructing an argument to suit my 
purpose, be so good as to answer the question: In what way do you assert God 
to be a creator? Is He such because He changed the substances, so that they 
should no longer be the same as they had once been but become different from 
what they were; or because, while He kept the substances the same as they were 
before that period, He changed their qualities? "
"I do not at all think that any alteration took place in substances: for it 
appears to me absurd to say this. But I affirm that a certain change was made in 
their qualities; and it is in respect of these that I speak of God as a creator. 
Just as we might happen to speak of a house as made out of stones, in which case 
we could not say that the stones no longer continue to be stones as regards 
their substance, now that they are made into a house (for I affirm that the 
house owes its existence to the quality of its construction, forasmuch as the 
previous quality of the stones has been changed),-so does it seem to me that 
God, while the substance remains the same, has made a certain change in 
its qualities; and it is in respect of such change that I speak of the origin of 
this world as having come from God."
"Since, then, you maintain that a certain change-namely, of qualifies-has 
been produced by God, answer me briefly what I am desirous to ask you."
"Proceed, pray, with your question."
"Do you agree in the opinion that evil things are qualities of substances? 
"
"I do."
"Were these qualities in matter from the first, or did they begin to be? 
"
"I hold that these qualifies existed in combination with matter, without 
being originated."
"But do you not affirm that God has made a certain change in the qualities? 
"
"That is what I affirm."
"For the better, or for the worse? "
"For the better, I should say."
"Well, then, if evil things are qualities of matter, and if the Lord of 
all changed its qualities for the better, whence, it behoves us to ask, come 
evil things? For either the qualities remained the same in their nature as they 
previously were, or, if they were not evil before, but you assert that, in 
consequence of a change wrought on them by God, the first qualities of this kind 
came into existence in connection with matter,-God will be the author of evil, 
inasmuch as He changed the qualities which were not evil, so as to make them 
evil.
"Possibly, however, it is not your view that God changed evil qualities for 
the better; but you mean that all those other qualities which happened to be 
neither good nor bad, 
were changed by God with a view to the adornment of the creation."
"That has been my opinion from the outset." 
"How, then, can you say that He has left the qualities of bad things just as 
they were? Is it that, although He was able to destroy those qualities as well 
as the others, He was not willing; or did He refrain because He had not 
the power? For, if you say He had the power, but not the will, you must admit 
Him to be the cause of these qualities: since, when He could have put a 
stop to the existence of evil, He chose to let it remain as it was, and that, 
too, at the very time when He began to fashion matter. For, if He had not 
concerned Himself at all with matter, He would not have been the cause of those 
things which He allowed to remain. But, seeing that He fashioned a certain part 
of it, and left a certain part as we have described it, although He could have 
changed that also for the better, it seems to me that He deserves to have the 
blame cast on Him, for having permitted a part of matter to be evil, to the ruin 
of that other part which He fashioned.
"Nay, more, it seems to me that the most serious wrong has been committed as 
regards this part, in that He constituted this part of matter so as to be now 
affected by evil. For, if we were to examine carefully into things, we should 
find that the condition of matter is worse now than in its former state, before 
it was reduced to order. For, before it was separated into parts, it had no 
sense of evil; but now every one of its parts is afflicted with a sense of 
evil.
"Take an illustration from man. Before he was fashioned, and became a living 
being through the art of the Creator, he was by nature exempt from any contact 
whatever with evil; but, as soon as ever he was made by God a man, he became 
liable to the sense of even approaching evil: and thus that very thing which you 
say was brought about by God for the benefit of matter, 
is found to have turned out rather to its detriment.
"But, if you say that evil has not been put a stop to, because God was unable 
to do away with it, you will be making God powerless. But, if He is powerless, 
it will be either because He is weak by nature, or because He is overcome by 
fear, and reduced to subjection by a stronger. If, then, you go so far as to say 
that God is weak by nature, it seems to me that you imperil your salvation 
itself; but, if you say that He is weak through being overcome by fear of 
a greater, things evil will be greater than God, since they frustrate the 
carrying out of His purpose. But this, as it seems to me, it would be absurd to 
say of God. For why should not `they' rather be considered gods, since 
according to your account they are able to overcome God: if, that is to say, we 
mean by God that which has a controlling power over all things?
"But I wish to ask you a few questions concerning matter itself. Pray tell 
me, therefore, whether matter was something simple or compound. I am induced to 
adopt this method of investigating the subject before us by considering 
the diversity that obtains in existing things. For, if perchance matter was 
something simple and uniform, how comes it that the world is compound, 
and consists of, divers substances and combinations? For by `compound' we denote 
a mixture of certain simple elements. But if, on the contrary, you prefer 
to call matter compound, you will, of course, be asserting that it is compounded 
of certain simple elements. And, if it was compounded of simple elements, these 
simple elements must have existed at some time or other separately by 
themselves, and when they were compounded together matter came into being: from 
which it of course follows that matter is created. For, if matter is compound, 
and compound things are constituted from simple, there was once a time when 
matter had no existence,-namely, before the simple elements came together. And, 
if there was once a time when matter was not, and there was never a time when 
the uncreated was not, matter cannot be uncreated. And hence there will be many 
uncreated substances. For, if God was uncreated, and the simple elements 
out of which matter was compounded were also uncreated, there will not be 
two uncreated things only,-not to discuss the question what it is which 
constitutes objects simple, whether matter or form.
"Is it, further, your opinion that nothing in existence is opposed to itself? 
"
"It is."
"Is water, then, opposed to fire? "
"So it appears to me."
"Similarly, is darkness opposed to light, and warm to cold, and moreover 
moist to dry? "
"It seems to me to be so."
"Well, then, if nothing in existence is opposed to itself, and these things 
are opposed to each other, they cannot be one and the same matter; no, nor yet 
be made out of one and the same matter.
"I wish further to ask your opinion on a matter kindred to that of which we 
have been speaking. Do you believe that the parts of a thing are not 
mutually destructive? "
"I do."
"And you believe that fire and water, and so on, are parts of matter? "
"Quite so."
"Do you not also believe that water is subversive of fire, and light of 
darkness, and so of all similar things? "
"Yes." 
"Well, then, if the parts of a whole are not mutually destructive, and 
yet the parts of matter are mutually destructive, they cannot be parts of one 
matter. And, if they are not parts of one another, they cannot be composed of 
one and the same matter; nay, they cannot be matter at all, since nothing in 
existence is destructive of itself, as we learn from the doctrine of opposites: 
for nothing is opposed to itself-an opposite being by nature opposed to 
something else. White, for example, is not opposed to itself, but is said to be 
the opposite of black; and, similarly, light is shown not to be opposed to 
itself, but is considered an opposite in relation to darkness; and so of a very 
great number of things besides. If, then, matter were some one thing, it could 
not be opposed to itself. This, then, being the nature of opposites, it is 
proved that matter has no existence."

