
Fragments of Melito of Sardis











Melito, the 
Philosopher.
------------

[a.d. 160-170-177.] Melito 
  may have been the immediate successor of the "angel" (or "apostle") of the 
  church of Sardis, to whom our Great High Priest addressed one of the 
  apocalyptic messages. He was an "Apostolic Father" in point of fact; he very 
  probably knew the blessed Polycarp and his disciple Irenaeus. He is justly 
  revered for the diligence with which he sought out the evidence which, in his 
  day, established the Canon of the Old Testament, then just complete.
In the following fragments we find him called Bishop of Sardis, Bishop of 
  Ittica, and Bishop of Ittica. He is also introduced to us as "the 
  Philosopher," and we shall find him styled "the Eunuch" by Polycrates. It is 
  supposed that he had made himself a coelebs "for the kingdom of heaven's 
  sake," without mistaking our Lord's intent, as did Origen. He was not a monk, 
  but accepted a single estate to be the more free and single-eyed in the 
  Master's service. From the encyclopedic erudition of Lightfoot we glean some 
  particulars, as follows:-
1. I have adopted his date, as Lightfoot gives it,-that is, the period of 
  his writings,-under the Antonines. The improbability of seventy years in the 
  episcopate is reason enough for rejecting the idea that he was himself the 
  "angel of the church of Sardis," to whom our Lord sent the terrible 
rebuke.
2. His silence concerning persecutions under Vespasian, Trojan, and 
  Antoninus Pius cannot be pleaded to exempt them from this stain, against 
  positive evidence to the contrary.
3. A coincidence with Ignatius to the Ephesians 
  will be noted hereafter.
4. Melito, with Claudius Apollinaris and even Polycrates, may have been 
  personally acquainted with Ignatius; 
  of course, one with another. These lived not far from Smyrna; Asia Minor was, 
  in the first century, the focus of Christian activity.
5. We know of his visit to the East from his own account, preserved by 
  Eusebius. The Christians of proconsular Asia were accustomed to such journeys. 
  Even Clement of Alexandria may have met him, as he seems to have met Tatian 
  and Theodotus. 
  
6. Melito vouches for the rescript of Hadrian, 
  but his supposed reference to the edict of Antoninus does not bear close 
  scrutiny as warrant for its authenticity. 
  
7. The Apology of our author was addressed to Aurelius in his mid-career as 
  a sovereign, about a.d.170. Justin, Melito, Athenagoras, and Theophilus all 
  tell the same sad story of imperial cruelty. Even when Justin wrote to 
  Antoninus, Marcus was supreme in the councils of the elder emperor. 
  
8. He became a martyr, probably under Marcus Aurelius, circa 
a.d.177; 
some eminent critics have even dated his Apology as late as this.
I.

A Discourse Which Was in the 
  Presence of Antoninus Caesar, and He Exhorted 
  The Said Caesar to Acquaint Himself with God, and Showed to Him the Way of 
  Truth.
He began to speak as follows:-
"It is not easy," said Melito, "speedily to bring into the right way the man 
who has a long time previously been held fast by error. It may, however, be 
effected: for, when a man turns away ever so little from error, the mention of 
the truth is acceptable to him. For, just as when the cloud breaks ever so 
little there comes fair weather, even so, when a man turns toward God, the thick 
cloud of error which deprived him of true vision is quickly withdrawn from 
before him. For error, like disease 
and sleep, long holds fast those who come under its influence; 
but truth uses the word as a goad, and smites the slumberers, and awakens them; 
and when they are awake they look at the truth, and also understand it: they 
hear, and distinguish that which is from that which is not. For there are men 
who call iniquity righteousness: they think, for example, that it is 
righteousness for a man to err with the many. But I, for my part, affirm that it 
is not a good excuse for error that a man errs with the many. For, if one 
man only sin, 
his sin is great: how much greater will be the sin when many sin 
together!
"Now, the sin of which I speak is this: when a man abandons that which really 
exists, and serves that which does not really exist. There `is' that which 
really exists, and it is called God. He, I say, really exists, and by His 
power doth everything subsist. This being is in no sense made, nor did He ever 
come into being; but He has existed from eternity, and will continue to 
exist for ever and ever. He changeth not, while everything else changes. 
No eye 
can see Him, nor thought apprehend Him, nor language describe Him; and those who 
love Him speak of Him thus: `Father, and God of Truth.'
"If, therefore, a man forsake the light, and say that there is another God, 
it is plain from what he himself says that it is some created thing which he 
calls God. For, if a man call fire God, it is not God, because it is fire; and, 
if a man call water God, it is not God, because it is water; and, if he so 
call this earth on which we tread, or these heavens which are seen by us, or 
the sun, or the moon, or some one of these stars which run their course without 
ceasing by Divine command, and do not speed along by their own will, 
neither are these gods; and, if a man call gold and silver gods, are not 
these objects things which we use as we please? and, if he so call those 
pieces of wood which we burn, or those stones which we break, how can these 
things be gods? For, 1o! they are for the use of man. How can `they' 
escape the commission of great sin, who in their speech change the great God 
into those things which, so long as they continue, continue by Divine 
command?
"But, notwithstanding this, I say that so long as a man does not hear, and 
so does not discern or understand that there is a Lord over these 
creatures, he is not perhaps to be blamed: because no one finds fault with a 
blind man though he walk ever so badly. For, in the same manner as the blind, 
so men also, when they were seeking after God, stumbled upon stones and 
blocks of wood; and such of them as were rich stumbled upon gold and silver, and 
were prevented by their stumblings from finding that which they were 
seeking after. But, now that a voice has been heard through all the 
earth, 
declaring that there is a God of truth, and there has been given to every 
man an eye wherewith to see, those persons are without excuse who are ashamed of 
incurring the censure of their former companions in error, and yet desire 
to walk in the right way. For those who are ashamed to be saved must of 
necessity perish. I therefore counsel them to open their eyes and see: for, 1o! 
light is given abundantly 
to us all to see thereby; and if, when light has arisen upon us, any one close 
his eyes so as not to see, into the ditch he must go. 
But why is a man ashamed of the censure of those who have been in error 
along with himself? Rather does it behove him to persuade them to follow in his 
steps; and, if they should not be persuaded by him, then to disengage 
himself from their society. For there are some men who are unable to rise from 
their mother earth, and therefore also do they make them gods. from the earth 
their mother; and they are condemned by the judgments of truth, forasmuch as 
they apply the name of Him who is unchangeable to those objects which are 
subject to change, and shrink not from calling those things gods which have been 
made by the hands of man, and dare to make an image of God whom they have not 
seen.
"But I have to remark further, that the Sibyl 
also has said concerning them that it is the images of deceased kings that they 
worship. And this is easy to understand: for, lo! even now they worship and 
honour the images of those of Caesarean rank 
more than their former gods; for from those their former gods both 
pecuniary tribute and produce accrue to Caesar, as to one who is greater 
than they. On this account, those who despise them, and so cause Caesar's 
revenue to fall short, are put to death. But to the treasury of other kings also 
it is appointed how much the worshippers in various places shall pay, and how 
many vesselfuls 
of water from the sea they shall supply. Such is the wickedness of the world-of 
those who worship and fear that which has no sensation. Many of them, too, who 
are crafty, either for the sake of gain, or for vainglory, or for dominion over 
the multitude, both themselves worship, and incite those who are destitute of 
understanding to worship, that which has no sensation.
"I will further write and show, as far as my ability goes, how and for what 
causes images were made to kings and tyrants, and how they came to be 
regarded 
as gods. The people of Argos made images to Hercules, because he belonged to 
their city, and was strong, and by his valour slew noxious beasts, and more 
especially because they were afraid of him. For he was subject to no control, 
and carried off the wives of many: for his lust was great, like that of Zuradi 
the Persian, his friend. Again, the people of Acre worshipped Dionysus, 
a king, because he had recently 
planted the vine in their country. The Egyptians worshipped Joseph the Hebrew, 
who was called Serapis, because he supplied them with corn during the years of 
famine. The Athenians worshipped Athene, the daughter of Zeus, king of the 
island of Crete, because she built the town of Athens, and made Ericthippus her 
son king there, whom she had by adultery with Hephaestus, a blacksmith, son of a 
wife of her father. She was, too, always courting the society of Hercules, 
because he was her brother on her father's side. For Zeus the king became 
enamoured of Alcmene, the wife of Electryon, who was from Argos, and committed 
adultery with her, and she gave birth to Hercules. The people of Phoenicia 
worshipped Balthi, 
queen of Cyprus, because she fell in love with Tamuz, son of Cuthar king of the 
Phoenicians, and left her own kingdom and came and dwelt in Gebal, a fortress of 
the Phoenicians, and at the same time made all the Cyprians subject to King 
Cuthar. Also, before Tamuz she had fallen in love with Ares, and committed 
adultery with him; and Hephaestus, her husband, caught her, and his jealousy was 
roused against her, and he came and killed Tamuz in Mount Lebanon, as he was 
hunting 
wild boars; and from that time Balthi remained in Gebal, and she died in the 
city of Aphiki, 
where Tamuz was buried. The Elamites worshipped Nuh, daughter of the king of 
Elam: when the enemy had carried her captive, her father made for her an image 
and a temple in Shushan, a royal residence which is in Elam. The Syrians 
worshipped Athi, a Hadibite, who sent the daughter of Belat, a person skilled in 
medicine, and she healed Simi, the daughter of Hadad king of Syria; and some 
time afterwards, when Hadad himself had the leprosy upon him, Athi entreated 
Elisha the Hebrew, and he came and healed him of his leprosy. The people of 
Mesopotamia also worshipped Cuthbi, a Hebrew woman, because she delivered Bakru, 
the paternal king 
of Edessa, from his enemies. With respect to Nebo, who is worshipped in 
Mabug, why should I write to you? For, lo! all the priests who are in Mabug know 
that it is the image of Orpheus, a Thracian Magus. Hadran, again, is the image 
of Zaradusht, a Persian Magus. For both of these Magi practised magic at a well 
which was in a wood in Mabug, in which was an unclean spirit, and it assaulted 
and disputed the passage of every one who passed by in all that country in which 
the town of Mabug is situated; and these Magi, in accordance with what was a 
mystery in their Magian system, bade Simi, the daughter of Hadad, to draw water 
from the sea and pour it into the well, so that the spirit should not come up 
and commit assault. In like manner, the rest of mankind made images to their 
kings and worshipped them; of which matter I will not write further.
"But thou, a person of liberal mind, and familiar with the truth, if 
thou wilt properly consider these matters, commune with thine own 
self; 
and, though they should clothe thee in the garb of a woman, remember that thou 
art a man. Believe in Him who is in reality God, and to Him lay open thy mind, 
and to Him commit thy soul, and He is able to give thee immortal life for ever, 
for everything is possible to Him; 
and let all other things be esteemed by thee just as they are-images as images, 
and sculptures as sculptures; and let not that which is only made be put by thee 
in the place of Him who is not made, but let Him, the ever-living God, be 
constantly present to thy mind. 
For thy mind itself is His likeness: for it too is invisible and 
impalpable, 
and not to be represented by any form, yet by its will is the whole bodily frame 
moved. Know, therefore, that, if thou constantly serve Him who is immoveable, 
even He exists for ever, so thou also, when thou shalt have put off this 
body, which is visible and corruptible, shall stand before Him for ever, 
endowed with life and knowledge, and thy works shall be to thee wealth 
inexhaustible and possessions unfailing. And know that the chief of thy good 
works is this: that thou know God, and serve Him. Know, too, that He asketh not 
anything of thee: He needeth not anything.
"Who is this God? He who is Himself truth, and His word truth. And what is 
truth? That which is not fashioned, nor made, nor represented by art: that is, 
which has never been brought into existence, and is on that account 
called truth. 
If, therefore, a man worship that which is made with hands, it is not the truth 
that he worships, nor yet the word of truth.
"I have very much to say on this subject; but I feel ashamed for those who do 
not understand that they are superior to the work of their own hands, nor 
perceive how they give gold to the artists that they may make for them gods, and 
give them silver for their adornment and honour, and move their riches about 
from place to place, and then worship them. And what infamy can be 
greater than this, that a man should worship his riches, and forsake Him who 
bestowed those riches upon him? and that he should revile man, yet worship the 
image of man; and slay a beast, yet worship the likeness of a beast? This also 
is evident, that it is the workmanship of their fellowmen that they worship: for 
they do not worship the treasures 
while they are laid by in the bag, but when the artists have fashioned images 
out of them they worship them; neither do they worship the gold or the silver 
considered as property, 
but when the gravers have sculptured them then they worship them. Senseless man 
to what addition has been made to thy gold, that now thou worshippest it? If it 
is because it has been made to resemble a winged animal, why dost thou not 
worship the winged animal itself? And if because it has been made like a 
beast of prey, lo! the beast of prey itself is before thee. And if it is the 
workmanship itself that pleases thee, let the workmanship of God please thee, 
who made all things, and in His own likeness made the workmen, who strive to do 
like Him, but resemble Him not.
"But perhaps thou wilt say: How is it that God did not so make me that I 
should serve Him, and not images? In speaking thus, thou art seeking to become 
an idle instrument, and not a living man. For God made thee as perfect as it 
seemed good to Him. He has given thee a mind endowed with freedom; He has set 
before thee objects in great number, that thou on thy part mayest distinguish 
the nature of each thing and choose for thyself that which is good; He 
has set before thee the heavens, and placed in them the stars; He has set before 
thee the sun and the moon, and they too every day run their course therein; He 
has set before thee the multitude of waters, and restrained them by His word; He 
has set before thee the wide earth, which remains at rest, and continues before 
thee without variation: 
yet, lest thou shouldst suppose that of its own nature it so continues, 
He makes it also to quake when He pleaseth; He has set before thee the clouds, 
which by His command bring water from above and satisfy the earth-that 
from hence thou mayest understand that He who puts these things in motion is 
superior to them all, and mayest accept thankfully the goodness of Him 
who has given thee a mind whereby to distinguish these things from one 
another.
"Wherefore I counsel thee to know thyself, and to know God. For understand 
how that there is within thee that which is called the soul-by it the eye seeth, 
by it the ear heareth, by it the mouth speaketh; and how it makes use of the 
whole body; and how, whenever He pleaseth to remove the soul from the 
body, this falleth to decay and perisheth. From this, therefore, which 
exists within thyself and is invisible, understand how God also moveth the whole 
by His power, like the body; and that, whenever it pleases Him to withdraw His 
power, the whole world also, like the body, will fall to decay and 
perish.
"But why this world was made, and why it passes away, and why the body 
exists, and why it falls to decay, and why it continues, thou canst not 
know until thou hast raised thy head from this sleep in which thou art sunk, and 
hast opened thine eyes and seen that God is One, the Lord of all, and hast come 
to serve Him with all thy heart. Then will He grant thee to know His will: for 
every one that is severed from the knowledge of the living God is dead and 
buried even while in his body. Therefore is it that thou dost 
wallow on the ground before demons and shadows, and askest vain petitions from 
that which has not anything to give. But thou, stand thou up from among those 
who are lying on the earth and caressing stones, and giving their substance as 
food for the fire, and offering their raiment to idols, and; while 
themselves possessed of senses, are bent on serving that which has no 
sensation; and offer thou for thy imperishable soul petitions far that 
which decayeth not, to God who suffers no decay-and thy freedom will be at once 
apparent; and be thou careful of it, 
and give thanks to God who made thee, and gave thee the mind of the free, that 
thou mightest shape thy conduct even as thou wilt. He hath set before thee all 
these things, and showeth thee that, if thou follow after evil, thou shall be 
condemned for thy evil deeds; but that, if after goodness, thou shall receive 
from Him abundant good, 
together with immortal life for ever.
"There is, therefore, nothing to hinder thee from changing thy evil manner of 
life, because thou art a free man; or from seeking and finding out who is the 
Lord of all; or from serving Him with all thy heart: because with Him there is 
no reluctance to give the knowledge of Himself to those that seek it, according 
to the measure of their capacity to know Him.
"Let it be thy first care not to deceive thyself. For, if thou sayest of that 
which is not God: This is God, thou deceivest thyself, and sinnest before the 
God of truth. Thou fool I is that God which is bought and sold? Is that 
God which is in want? Is that God which must be watched over? How buyest thou 
him as a slave, and servest him as a master? How askest thou of him, as of one 
that is rich, to give to thee, and thyself givest to him as to one that is poor? 
How dost thou expect of him that he will make thee victorious in battle? for, 
lo! when thy enemies have conquered thee, they strip him likewise.
"Perhaps one who is a king may say: I cannot behave myself aright, because I 
am a king; it becomes me to do the will of the many. He who speaks thus really 
deserves to be laughed at: for why should not the king himself lead the 
way 
to all good things, and persuade the people under his rule to behave with 
purity, and to know God in truth, and in his own person set before them the 
patterns of all things excellent-since thus it becomes him to do? For it is a 
shameful thing that a king, however badly he may conduct himself, should 
yet judge and condemn those who do amiss.
"My opinion is this: that in `this' way a kingdom may be governed in 
peace-when the sovereign is acquainted with the God of truth, and is withheld by 
fear of Him from doing wrong 
to those who are his subjects, and judges everything with equity, as one who 
knows that he himself also will be judged before God; while, at the same time, 
those who are under his rule 
are withheld by the fear of God from doing wrong to their sovereign, and are 
restrained by the same fear from doing wrong to one another. By this 
knowledge of God and fear of Him all evil may be removed from the realm. For, if 
the sovereign abstain from doing wrong to those who are under his rule, and they 
abstain from doing wrong to him and to each other, it is evident that the whole 
country will dwell in peace. Many blessings, too, will be enjoyed there, 
because amongst them all the name of God will be glorified. For what blessing is 
greater than this, that a sovereign should deliver the people that are under his 
rule from error, and by this good deed render himself pleasing to God? For from 
error arise all those evils from which kingdoms suffer; but the greatest 
of all errors is this: when a man is ignorant of God, and in God's stead 
worships that which is not God.
"There are, however, persons who say: It is for the honour of God that we 
make the image: in order, that is, that we may worship the God who is concealed 
from our view. But they are unaware that God is in every country, and in every 
place, and is never absent, and that there is not anything done and He knoweth 
it not. Yet thou, despicable man! within whom He is, and without whom He is, and 
above whom He is, hast nevertheless gone and bought thee wood from the 
carpenter's, and it is carved and made into an image insulting to God. 
To this thou offerest sacrifice, and knowest not that the all-seeing eye seeth 
thee, and that the word of truth reproves thee, and says to thee: How can the 
unseen God be sculptured? Nay, it is the likeness of thyself that thou makest 
and worshippest. Because the wood has been sculptured, hast thou not the insight 
to perceive that it is still wood, or that the stone is 
still stone? The gold also the workman 
taketh according to its weight in the balance. And when thou hast had it 
made 
into an image, why dose thou weigh it? Therefore thou art a lover of gold, and 
not a lover of God. And art thou not ashamed, perchance it be deficient, to 
demand of the maker of it why he has stolen some of it? Though thou hast eyes, 
dose thou not see? And though thou hast intelligence, 
dose thou not understand? Why dose thou wallow on the ground, and offer 
supplication to things which are without sense? Fear Him who shaketh the earth, 
and maketh the heavens to revolve, and smiteth the sea, and removeth the 
mountain from its place-Him who can make Himself like a fire, and consume all 
things; and, if thou be not able to clear thyself of guilt, yet add not to thy 
sins; and, if thou be not able to know God, yet doubt not 
that He exists.
"Again, there are persons who say: Whatsoever our fathers have bequeathed to 
us, that we reverence. Therefore, of course, it is, that those whose 
fathers have bequeathed them poverty strive to become rich! and those whose 
fathers did not instruct them, desire to be instructed, and to learn that which 
their fathers knew not! And why, forsooth, do the children of the blind see, and 
the children of the lame walk? Nay, it is not well for a man to follow 
his predecessors, if they be those whose course was evil; but 
rather that we should turn from that path of theirs, lest that which 
befell our predecessors should bring disaster upon us also. Wherefore, 
inquire whether thy father's course was good: and, if so, do thou also 
follow in his steps; but, if thy father's course was very evil, let thine be 
good, and so let it be with thy children after thee. 
Be grieved also for thy father because his course is evil, so long as thy grief 
may avail to help him. But, as for thy children, speak to them thus: There is a 
God, the Father of all, who never came into being, neither was ever made, and by 
whose will all things subsist. He also made the luminaries, that His works may 
see one another; and He conceals Himself in His power from all His works: for it 
is not permitted to any being subject to change to see Him who changes not. But 
such as are mindful of His words, and are admitted into that covenant 
which is unchangeable, `they' see God-so far as it is possible for them to see 
Him. These also will have power to escape destruction, when the flood of fire 
comes upon all the world. For there was once a flood and a wind, 
and the great 
men were swept away by a violent blast from the north, but the just were left, 
for a demonstration of the truth. Again, at another time there was a flood of 
water, and all men and animals perished in the multitude of waters, but the just 
were preserved in an ark of wood by the command of God. So also will it be at 
the last time: there shall be a flood of fire, and the earth shall be burnt up, 
together with its mountains; and mankind shall be burnt up, along with the idols 
which they have made, and the carved images which they have worshipped; and the 
sea shall be burnt up, together with its islands; but the just shall be 
preserved from wrath, like as were their fellows of the ark from the 
waters of the deluge. And then shall those who have not known God, and those who 
have made them idols, bemoan themselves, when they shall see those idols of 
theirs being burnt up, together with themselves, and nothing shall be found to 
help them.
"When thou, Antoninus 
Caesar, shall become acquainted with these things, and thy children also with 
thee, then wilt thou bequeath to them an inheritance for ever which 
fadeth not away, and thou wilt deliver thy soul, and the souls of thy children 
also, from that which shall come. upon the whole earth in the judgment of truth 
and of righteousness. For, according as thou hast acknowledged Him here, 
so will He acknowledge thee there; and, if thou account Him here 
superfluous, He will not account thee one of those who have known Him and 
confessed Him.
"These may suffice thy Majesty; and, if they be too many, yet 
deign to accept them." 
Here endeth Melito.
II.

From the Discourse on Soul and 
  Body. 
  
For this reason did the Father send His Son from heaven without a bodily 
form, that, when He should put on a body by means of the Virgin's womb, and be 
born man, He might save man, and gather together those members of His which 
death had scattered when he divided man.
And further on: -The earth shook, and its foundations trembled; the 
sun fled away, and the elements turned back, and the day was changed into 
night: for they could not endure the sight of their Lord hanging on a 
tree. The whole creation was amazed, marvelling and saying, "What new 
mystery, then, is this? The Judge is judged, and holds his peace; the Invisible 
One is seen, and is not ashamed; the Incomprehensible is laid hold upon, and is 
not indignant; the Illimitable is circumscribed, and doth not resist; the 
Impossible suffereth, and doth not avenge; the Immortal dieth, and answereth not 
a word; the Celestial is laid in the grave, and endureth! What new mystery is 
this? "The whole creation, I say, was astonished; but, when our 
Lord arose from the place of the dead, and trampled death under foot, and bound 
the strong one, and set man free, then did the whole creation see clearly that 
for man's sake the Judge was condemned, and the Invisible was seen, and the 
Illimitable was circumscribed, and the Impassible suffered, and the Immortal 
died, and the Celestial was laid in the gave. For our Lord, when He was born 
man, was condemned in order that He might Show mercy, was bound in order that He 
might loose, was seized in order that He might release, suffered in order that 
He might feel compassion, 
died in order that He might give life, was laid in the grave that He might raise 
from the dead. 

III.

From the Discourse on the 
  Cross. 
  
On these accounts He came to us; on these accounts, though He was 
incorporeal, He formed for Himself a body after our fashion, 
-appearing as a sheep, yet still remaining the Shepherd; being esteemed a 
servant, yet not renouncing the Sonship; being carried in the womb of 
Mary, yet arrayed in the nature of His Father; treading upon the earth, 
yet filling heaven; appearing as an infant, yet not discarding the eternity of 
His nature; being invested with a body, yet not circumscribing the unmixed 
simplicity of His Godhead; being esteemed poor, yet not divested of His riches; 
needing sustenance inasmuch as He was man, yet not ceasing to feed the entire 
world inasmuch as He is God; putting on the likeness of a servant, yet not 
impairing 
the likeness of His Father. He sustained every character 
belonging to Him in an immutable nature: He was standing before Pilate, 
and at the same time was sitting with His Father; He was nailed upon the 
tree, and yet was the Lord of all things.
IV.

On Faith. 
  
We have collected together extracts from the Law and the Prophets 
relating to those things which have Been declared concerning our Lord Jesus 
Christ, that we may prove to your love that this Being is perfect reason, 
the Word of God; He who was begotten before the light; He who is Creator 
together with the Father; He who is the Fashioner of man; He who is all in all; 
He who among the patriarchs is Patriarch; He who in the law is the Law; among 
the priests, Chief Priest; among kings, the Ruler; among prophets, the Prophet; 
among the angels, Archangel; in the voice of the preacher, the Word; 
among spirits, the Spirit; in the Father, the Son; in God, God; King for ever 
and ever. For this is He who was pilot to Noah; He who was guide to Abraham; He 
who was bound with Isaac; He who was in exile with Jacob; He who was sold with 
Joseph; He who was captain of the host with Moses; He who was the divider of the 
inheritance with Jesus the son of Nun; He who in David and the prophets 
announced His own sufferings; He who put on a bodily form in the Virgin; He who 
was born in Bethlehem; He who was wrapped in swaddling-clothes in the manger; He 
who was seen by the shepherds; He who was glorified by the angels; He who was 
worshipped by the Magi; He who was pointed out by John; He who gathered together 
the apostles; He who preached the kingdom; He who cured the lame; He who gave 
light to the blind; He who raised the dead; He who appeared in the temple; He 
who was not believed on by the people; He who was betrayed by Judas; He who was 
apprehended by the priests; He who was condemned by Pilate; He who was pierced 
in the flesh; He who was hanged on the tree; He who was buried in the earth; He 
who rose from the place of the dead; He who appeared to the apostles; He who was 
carried up to heaven; He who is seated at the right hand of the Father; He who 
is the repose of those that are departed; the recoverer of those that are lost; 
the light of those that are in darkness; the deliverer of those that are 
captive; the guide of those that go astray; the asylum of the afflicted; the 
bridegroom of the Church; the charioteer of the cherubim; the captain of the 
angels; God who is from God; the Son who is from the Father; Jesus Christ the 
King for evermore. Amen.
V. 

This is He who took a bodily form in the Virgin, and was hanged upon the 
tree, and was buried within the earth, and suffered not dissolution; He who rose 
from the place of the dead, and raised up men from the earth-from the grave 
below to the height of heaven. This is the Lamb that was slain; this is the Lamb 
that opened not His mouth. 
This is He who was born of Mary, fair sheep of the fold. This is He that 
was taken from the flock, and was led to the slaughter, and was slain in the 
evening, and was buried at night; He who had no bone of Him broken on the tree; 
He who suffered not dissolution within the earth; He who rose from the place of 
the dead, and raised up the race of Adam from the grave below, This is He who 
was put to death. And where was He put to death? In the midst of Jerusalem. By 
whom? By Israel: became He cured their lame, and cleansed their lepers, and gave 
light to their blind, and raised their dead! This was the cause of His death. 
Thou, O Israel, wast giving commands, and He was being crucified; thou 
wast rejoicing, and He was being buried; thou wast reclining on a soft couch, 
and He was watching in the grave and the shroud. 
O Israel, transgressor of the law, why hast thou committed this new iniquity, 
subjecting the Lord to new sufferings-thine own Lord, Him who fashioned thee, 
Him-who made thee, Him who honoured thee, who called thee Israel? But thou hast 
not been found to be Israel: for thou hast not seen God, nor understood the 
Lord. Thou hast not known, O Israel, that this was the first-born of God, who 
was begotten before the sun, who made the light to shine forth, who lighted up 
the day, who separated the darkness, who fixed the first foundations, who poised 
the earth, who collected the ocean, who stretched out the firmament, who adorned 
the world. Bitter were thy nails, and sharp; bitter thy tongue, which 
thou didst whet; bitter was Judas, to whom thou gavest hire; bitter thy 
false witnesses, whom thou stirredst up; bitter thy gall, which thou preparedst; 
bitter thy vinegar, which thou madest; bitter thy hands, filled with blood. Thou 
slewest thy Lord, and He was lifted up upon the tree; and an inscription was 
fixed above, to show who He was that was slain. And who was this? (that 
which we shall not say is too shocking to hear, and that which we 
shall say is very dreadful: nevertheless hearken, and tremble.) It was He 
because of whom the earth quaked. He that hung up the earth in space was 
Himself hanged up; He that fixed the heavens was fixed with nails; 
He that bore up the earth was borne up on a tree; the Lord of all was 
subjected to ignominy in a naked body-God put to death! the King of Israel slain 
with Israel's right hand! Alas for the new wickedness of the new murder! The 
Lord was exposed with naked body: He was not deemed worthy even of covering; 
and, in order that He might not be seen, the luminaries turned away, and the day 
became darkened 
because they slew God, who hung naked on the tree. It was not the body of our 
Lord that the luminaries covered with darkness when they set, 
but the eyes of men. For, because the people quaked not, the earth quaked; 
because they were not affrighted, the earth was affrighted. Thou smotest thy 
Lord: thou also hast been smitten upon the earth. And thou indeed liest dead; 
but He is risen from the place of the dead, and ascended to the height of 
heaven, having suffered for the sake of those who suffer, and having been bound 
for the sake of Adam's race which was imprisoned, and having been judged for the 
sake of him who was condemned, and having been buried for the sake of him who 
was buried.
And further on: -This is He who made the heaven and the earth, and in 
the beginning, together with the Father, fashioned man; who was announced by 
means of the law and the prophets; who put on a bodily form in the Virgin; who 
was hanged upon the tree; who was buried in the earth; who rose from the place 
of the dead, and ascended to the height of heaven, and sitteth on the right hand 
of the Father.
VI. 

He that bore up the earth was borne up on a tree. The Lord was subjected to 
ignominy with naked body-God put to death, the King of Israel slain!

Fragments. 
  
I.
From the work on the passover. 
When Servilius Paulus was proconsul of Asia, at the time that Sagaris 
suffered martyrdom, there arose a great controversy at Laodicea concerning the 
time of the celebration of the Passover, which on that occasion had happened 
to fall at the proper season; 
and this treatise was then written. 

II.

From the apology addressed to Marcus Aurelius Antoninus.

For the race of the pious is now persecuted in a way contrary to all 
precedent, being harassed by a new kind of edicts 
everywhere in Asia. For unblushing informers, and such as are greedy of other 
men's goods, taking occasion from the orders issued, carry on their 
robbery without any disguise, plundering of their property night and day those 
who are guilty of no wrong.
If these proceedings take place at thy bidding, 
well and good. 
For a just sovereign will never take unjust measures; and we, on our part, 
gladly accept the honour of such a death. This request only we present to thee, 
that thou wouldst first of all examine for thyself into the behaviour of these 
reputed agents of so much strife, and then come to a just decision as to 
whether they merit death and punishment, or deserve to live in safety and quiet. 
But if, on the contrary, it shall turn out that this measure, and this new sort 
of command, which it would be unbecoming to employ even against barbarian 
foemen, do not proceed from thee, then all the more do we entreat thee not to 
leave us thus exposed to the spoliation of the populace.
For the philosophy current with us flourished in the first instance among 
barbarians; 
and, when it afterwards sprang up among the nations under thy rule, during the 
distinguished reign of thy ancestor Augustus, it proved to be a blessing of most 
happy omen to thy empire. For from that time the Roman power has risen to 
greatness and splendour. To this power thou hast succeeded as the much 
desired 
possessor; and such shalt thou continue, together with thy son, 
if thou protect that philosophy which has grown up with thy empire, and which 
took its rise with Augustus; to which also thy more recent ancestors paid 
honour, along with the other religions prevailing in the empire. A very 
strong proof, moreover, that it was for good that the system we profess came to 
prevail at the same time that the empire of such happy commencement was 
established, is this-that ever since the reign of Augustus nothing untoward has 
happened; but, on the contrary, everything has contributed to the splendour and 
renown of the empire, in accordance with the devout wishes 
of all. Nero and Domitian alone of all the emperors, imposed upon by 
certain calumniators, have cared to bring any impeachment against our doctrines. 
They, too, are the source from which it has happened that the lying slanders on 
those who profess them have, in consequence of the senseless habit which 
prevails of taking things on hearsay, flowed down to our own 
times. 
But the course which they in their ignorance pursued was set aside by thy pious 
progenitors, who frequently and in many instances rebuked by their 
rescripts 
those who dared to set on foot any hostilities against them. It appears, for 
example, that thy grandfather Adrian wrote, among others, to Fundanus, the 
proconsul then in charge of the government of Asia. Thy father, too, when thou 
thyself wast associated with him 
in the administration of the empire, wrote to the cities, forbidding them to 
take any measures adverse to us: among the rest to the people of Larissa, and of 
Thessalonica, and of Athens, and, in short, to all the Greeks. And as 
regards thyself, seeing that thy sentiments respecting the Christians 
are not only the same as theirs, but even much more generous and wise, we are 
the more persuaded that thou wilt do all that we ask of thee.
III.

From the same apology.

We are not those who pay homage to stones, that are without sensation; but of 
the only God, who is before all and over all, and, moreover, we are worshippers 
of His Christ, who is veritably God the Word 
existing before all time.
IV.

From the Book of Extracts.

Melito to his brother Onesimus, greeting:-
As you have often, prompted by your regard for the word of God, 
expressed a wish to have some extracts made from the Law and the Prophets 
concerning the Saviour, and concerning our faith in general, and have desired, 
moreover, to obtain an accurate account of the Ancient Books, as regards their 
number and their arrangement, I have striven to the best of my ability to 
perform this task: well knowing your zeal for the faith, and your eagerness to 
become acquainted with the Word, and especially because I am assured 
that, through your yearning after God, you esteem these things beyond all 
things else, engaged as you are in a struggle for eternal salvation.
I accordingly proceeded to the East, and went to the very spot where the 
things in question were preached and took place; and, having made myself 
accurately acquainted with the books of the Old Testament, I have set them down 
below, and herewith send you the list. Their names are as follows:-
The five books of Moses-Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, 
Deuteronomy; Joshua, 
Judges, Ruth, the four books of Kings, the two of Chronicles, the book 
of the Psalms of David, the Proverbs of Solomon, also called the Book 
of Wisdom, Ecclesiastes, the Song of Songs, Job, the books of the 
prophets Isaiah, Jeremiah, of the twelve contained in a single book, Daniel, 
Ezekiel, Esdras. From these I have made my extracts, dividing them into six 
books.
V.

From the Catena on Genesis.

In place of Isaac the just, a ram appeared for slaughter, in order that Isaac 
might be liberated from his bonds. The slaughter of this animal redeemed 
Isaac from death. In like manner, the Lord, being slain, saved us; being 
bound, He loosed us; being sacrificed, He redeemed us ...
For the Lord was a lamb, like the ram which Abraham saw caught in the bush 
Sabec. 
But this bush represented the cross, and that place Jerusalem, and the lamb the 
Lord bound for slaughter.
For as a ram was He bound, says he concerning our Lord Jesus Christ, and as a 
lamb was He shorn, and as a sheep was He led to the slaughter, and as a lamb was 
He crucified; and He carried the cross 
on His shoulders when He was led up to the hill to be slain, as was Isaac 
by his father. But Christ suffered, and Isaac did not suffer: for he was 
but a type of Him who should suffer. Yet, even when serving only for a 
type of Christ, he smote men with astonishment and fear.
For a new mystery was presented to view,-a son led by his father to a 
mountain to be slain, whose feet he bound together, and laid him on the wood of 
the sacrifice, preparing with care 
whatever was necessary to his immolation. Isaac on his part is silent, bound 
like a ram, not opening his mouth, nor uttering a sound with his voice. For, not 
fearing the knife, nor quailing before the fire, nor troubled by the prospect 
of suffering, he sustained bravely the character of the type of the 
Lord. Accordingly there lies Isaac before us, with his feet bound like a ram, 
his father standing by, with the knife all bare in his hand, not shrinking from 
shedding the blood of his son.
VI.

Two scholia on Genesis 22:13.

The Syriac and the Hebrew use the word "suspended," 
as more clearly typifying the cross.
The word Sabek 
some have rendered remission, 
others upright, 
as if the meaning, agreeing with the popular belief, were-a goat walking erect 
up to a bush, and there standing erect caught by his horns, so as to be a plain 
type of the cross. For this reason it is not translated, because the single 
Hebrew word signifies in other languages 
many things. To those, however, who ask it is proper to give an answer, and to 
say that Sabek denotes lifted up. 

VII.

On the nature of Christ.

For there is no need, to persons of intelligence, to attempt to prove, from 
the deeds of Christ subsequent to His baptism, that His soul and His body, His 
human nature 
like ours, were real, and no phantom of the imagination. For the deeds done by 
Christ after His baptism, and especially His miracles, gave indication and 
assurance to the world of the Deity hidden in His flesh. For, being at once both 
God and perfect man likewise, He gave us sure indications of His two 
natures: 
of His Deity, by His miracles during the three years that elapsed after His 
baptism; of His humanity, during the thirty similar periods which 
preceded His baptism, in which, by reason of His low estate 
as regards the flesh, He concealed the signs of His Deity, although He was the 
true God existing before all ages.
VIII.

From the Oration on Our Lord's Passion.

God has suffered from the right hand of Israel. 

IX. 

Head of the Lord-His simple Divinity; because He is the Beginning and 
Creator of all things: in Daniel. 

The white hair of the Lord, because He is "the Ancient of Days: "as 
above.
The eyes of the Lord-the Divine inspection: because He sees all 
things. Like that in the apostle: For all things are naked and open in His 
eyes." 

The eyelids of theLord-hidden spiritual mysteries in the Divine 
precepts. In the Psalm: "His eyelids question, that is prove, the children of 
men." 

The smelling of the Lord-His delight in the prayers or works of the 
saints. In Genesis: "And the Lord smelled an odour of sweetness." 

The mouth of the Lord-His Son, or word addressed to men. In the 
prophet, "The mouth of the Lord hath spoken; " 
and elsewhere, "They provoked His mouth to anger." 

The tongue of the Lord-His Holy Spirit. In the Psalm: "My tongue is a 
pen." 

The face of the Lord-His manifestation. In Exodus, "My face shall go 
before thee; " 
and in the prophet, "The face of the Lord divided them." 

The word of the Lord-His Son. In the Psalm: "My heart hath 
uttered a good word." 

The arm of the Lord-His Son, by whom He hath wrought all His 
works. In the prophet Isaiah: "And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? 
" 

The right hand of the Lord-that is, His Son; as also above in 
the Psalm: "The right hand of the Lord hath done valiantly." 

The right hand of the Lord-electio omnis. As in Deuteronomy: 
"In His right hand is a fiery law." 

The wings of the Lord-Divine protection. In the Psalm: "In the shadow 
of Thy wings will I hope." 

The shoulder of the Lord-the Divine power, by which He condescends to 
carry the feeble. In Deuteronomy: "He took them up, and put them on His 
shoulders." 

The hand of the Lord-Divine operation. In the prophet: "Have not my 
hands made all these things? " 

The finger of the Lord-the Holy Spirit, by whose operation the tables 
of the law in Exodus are said to have been written; 
and in the Gospel: "If I by the finger of God cast out demons" 

The fingers of the Lord-The lawgiver Moses, or the prophets. In the 
Psalm: "I will regard the heavens," that is, the books of the Law and the 
Prophets, "the works of Thy fingers." 

The wisdom of the Lord-His Son. In the apostle: "Christ the 
power of God, and the wisdom of God; " 
and in Solomon: "The wisdom of the Lord reacheth from one end to the other 
mightily." 

The womb of the Lord-the hidden recess of Deity out of which He 
brought forth His Son. In the Psalm: "Out of the womb, before Lucifer, have I 
borne Thee. 

The feet of the Lord-His immoveableness and eternity. In the Psalm: 
"And thick darkness was under His feet." 

The throne of the Lord-angels, or saints, or simply sovereign 
dominion. 
In the Psalm: "Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever." 

Seat-the same as above, angels or saints, because the Lord sits upon 
these. In the Psalm: "The Lord sat upon His holy seat." 

The descent of the Lord-His visitation of men. As in Micah: "Behold, 
the Lord shall come forth from His place; He shall come down trampling under 
foot the ends of the earth." 
Likewise in a bad sense. In Genesis: "The Lord came down to see the 
tower." 

The ascent of the Lord-the raising up of man, who is taken from earth 
to heaven. In the Psalm: "Who ascendeth above the heaven of heavens to the 
east." 

The standing of the Lord-the patience of the Deity, by which He bears 
with sinners that they may come to repentance. As in Habakkuk: "He good and 
measured the earth; 
and in the Gospel: "Jesus stood, and bade him be called," 
that is, the blind man.
The transition of the Lord-His assumption of our flesh, through which 
by His birth, His death, His resurrection, His ascent into heaven, He made 
transitions, so to say. In the Song of Songs: "Behold, He cometh, leaping upon 
the mountains, bounding over the hills." 

The going
of the Lord-His coming or visitation. In the Psalm.
The way of the Lord-the operation of the Deity. As in Job, in speaking 
of the devil: "He is the beginning of the ways of the Lord." 

Again: The ways of the Lord-His precepts. In Hosea: "For the ways of 
the Lord are straight, and the just shall walk in them." 

The footsteps of the Lord-the signs of His secret operations. 
As in the Psalm: "And Thy footsteps shall not be known." 

The knowledge of the Lord-that which makes men to know Him. To Abraham 
He says: "Now I know that thou fearest the Lord; " 
that is, I have made thee to know.
The ignorance of God 
is His disapproval. In the Gospel: "I know you not." 

The remembrance of God-His mercy, by which He rejects and has mercy on 
whom He will. So in Genesis: "The Lord remembered Noah; " 
and in another passage: "The Lord hath remembered His people." 

The repentance of the Lord-His change of procedure. 
As in the book of Kings: "It repented me that I have made Saul king." 

The anger and wrath of the Lord-the vengeance of the Deity upon 
sinners, when He bears with them with a view to punishment, does not at 
once judge them according to strict equity. As in the Psalm: "In His 
anger and in His wrath will He trouble them." 

The sleeping of the Lord-when, in the thoughts of some, His 
faithfulness is not sufficiently wakeful. In the Psalm: "Awake, why sleepest 
Thou, O Lord? " 

The watches of the Lord-in the guardianship of His elect He is always 
at hand by the presence of His Deity. In the Psalm: "Lo! He will not 
slumber nor sleep." 

The sitting of the Lord-His ruling. In the Psalm: "The Lord sitteth 
upon His holy seat." 

The footstool of the Lord-man assumed by the Word; or His saints, as 
some think. In the Psalm: "Worship ye His footstool, for it is holy."
The walking of the Lord-the delight of the Deity in the walks of His 
elect. In the prophet: "I will walk in them, and will be their Lord." 

The trumpet of the Lord-His mighty voice. In the apostle: "At the 
command, and at the voice of the archangel, and at the trumpet of God, shall He 
descend from heaven." 


