
The Muratorian Fragment





This piece of parchment is dated AD 170-210. Missing the beginning and end, the fragment
is as follows... 
...at which never the less he was present and so he placed it in his narrative.
The third book of the gospel is that according to Luke. Luke the well know physician wrote
it in his own name, according to the general belief after the ascension of Christ when
Paul had associated him with himself as one zealous for correctness. One who took pains to
find out the facts. It is true that he had not seen the Lord in the flesh. Yet having
ascertained the facts he was able to being his narrative with the nativity of John. 
The fourth book of the gospel is that of John's, one of the disciples. In response to the
exhortation of his fellow disciples and bishops he said "Fast with me for three days
then let us tell each other whatever shall be reveled to each one." The same night it
was reveled to Andrew, who was one of the apostles, that it was John who should relate in
his own name what they collectively remembered. Or that John was to relate in his own
name, they all acting as correctors. And so to the faith of believers there is no discord
even although different selections are given from the facts in the individual books of the
gospels. Because in all of them under the one guiding spirit all the things relative to
his nativity, passion, resurrection, conversation with his disciples, and his twofold
advent, the first in humiliation rising form contempt which took place and the second in
the glory of kingly power which is yet to come, have been declared. What marvel it is then
if John induces so consistently in his epistles these several things saying in person
"what we have seen with our eyes and heard with our ears and our hands have handled,
those things we have written." For thus he professes to be not only an eye witness
but also a hearer and a narrator of all the wonderful things of the Lord in their order.
Moreover the acts of all the apostles are written in one book. Luke so comprised them for
the most excellent Theophilus because of the individual events that took place in his
presence. As he clearly shows by omitting the passion of Peter. As well as the departure
of Paul, when Paul went from the city of Rome to Spain.
Now, the epistles of Paul, what they are and for what reason they were sent they
themselves make clear to him who will understand. 
First of all he wrote at length to the Corinthians to prohibit the system of heresy, then
to the Galatians against circumcision. And to the Romans on the order of scriptures
intimating also that Christ is the chief matter in them. Each of which is necessary for us
to discuss seeing that the blessed apostle Paul himself, following the example of his
predecessor John, writes to no more that seven churches by name, in the following order:
Corinthians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, Galatians, Thessalonians, and Romans. But
he writes twice for the sake of correction to the Corinthians and to the Thessalonians.
That there is one church defused throughout the whole earth is shown. by this seven fold
writing and John also in the Apocalypse. Even though he writes the seven churches, he
speaks to all. But he wrote out of affection and love one to Philemon, one to Titus, two
to Timothy and these are held sacred in the honorable esteem of the church catholic, in
the regulation of Ecclesiastical discipline. 
There are adduced one to the Laodiceans another to the Alexandrians, forged in the name of
Paul against the heresy of Marcion. And many others which can not be received into the
church catholic for it is not fitting that gall be mixed with honey. 
Further an epistle of Jude and two bearing the name of John are counted among the catholic
epistles. And Wisdom written by the friends of Solomon in his honor. 
We receive the Apocalypses of John and Peter only. Some of us do not wish the Apocalypse
of Peter to be read in church. 
But Hermas wrote "the Shepherd" in the city of Rome most recently in our times,
when his brother bishop Pious was occupying the chair in the church at Rome. And so indeed
it ought to be read but that it be made public to the people in the church and placed
among the prophets whose number is complete or among the apostles is not possible to the
end of time. 
Of Arsenus, Valentinus, or Miltiadees we receive nothing at all. Those also who wrote the
"new book of Psalms," Marcion together with Basilides, and the Asian
Cataphrigians... 
