
Origen






Origen
A LETTER TO ORIGEN FROM AFRICANUS ABOUT THE HISTORY OF SUSANNA. 
GREETING, my lord and son, most worthy Origen, from Africanus. In your sacred 
discussion with Agnomon you referred to that prophecy of Daniel which is related 
of his youth. This at that time, as was meet, I accepted as genuine. Now, 
however, I cannot understand how it escaped you that this part of the book is 
spurious. For, in sooth, this section, although apart from this it is elegantly 
written, is plainly a more modern forgery. There are many proofs of this. When 
Susanna is condemned to die, the prophet is seized by the Spirit, and cries out 
that the sentence is unjust. Now, in the first place, it is always in some other 
way that Daniel prophesies--by visions, and dreams, and an angel appearing to 
him, never by prophetic inspiration. Then, after crying out in this 
extraordinary fashion, he detects them in a way no less incredible, which not 
even Philistion the play-writer would have resorted to. 
For, not satisfied with rebuking them through the Spirit, he placed them 
apart, and asked them severally where they saw her committing adultery. And when 
the one said, "Under a holm-tree" (prinos), he answered that the angel would saw 
him asunder (prisein); and in a similar fashion menaced the other who said, 
"Under a mastich-tree" (schinos), with being rent asunder (schisthenai). Now, in 
Greek, it happens that "holm-tree" and "saw asunder," and "rend" and 
"mastich-tree" sound alike; but in Hebrew they are quite distinct. But all the 
books of the Old Testament have been translated from Hebrew into Greek. 
2. Moreover, how is it that they who were captives among the Chaldaeans, lost 
and won at play? thrown out unburied on the streets, as was prophesied of the 
former captivity, their sons torn from them to be eunuchs, and their daughters 
to be concubines, as had been prophesied; how is it that such could pass 
sentence of death, and that on the wife of their king Joakim, whom the king of 
the Babylonians had made partner of his throne? Then if it was not this Joakim, 
but some other from the common people, whence had a captive such a mansion and 
spacious garden? But a more fatal objection is, that this section, along with 
the other two at the end of it, is not contained in the Daniel received among 
the Jews. And add that, among all the many prophets who had been before, there 
is no one who has quoted from another word for word. For they had no need to go 
a-begging for words, since their own were true; but this one, in rebuking one of 
those men, quotes the words of the Lord: "The innocent and righteous shall thou 
not slay." From all this I infer that this section is a later addition. 
Moreover, the style is different. I have struck the blow; do you give the echo; 
answer, and instruct me. Salute all my masters. The learned all salute thee. 
With all my heart I pray for your and your circle's health. 

