
The Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs












Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs

I.-The Testament of Reuben Concerning Thoughts
I.-The Testament of Reuben 
Concerning Thoughts
------------
1. The copy of the Testament of Reuben, what things he charged his sons 
before he died in the hundred and twenty-fifth year of his life. When he was 
sick two years after the death of Joseph, his sons and his sons' sons were 
gathered together to visit him. And he said to them, My children, I am dying, 
and go the way of my fathers. And when he saw there Judah and Gad and Asher, his 
brethren, he said to them, Raise me up, my brethren, that I may tell to my 
brethren and to my children what things I have hidden in my heart, for from 
henceforth my strength faileth me. And he arose and kissed them, and said, 
weeping: Hear, my brethren, give ear to Reuben your father, what things I 
command you. And, behold, I call to witness against you this day the God of 
heaven, that ye walk not in the ignorance of youth and fornication wherein I ran 
greedily, and I defiled the bed of Jacob my father. For I tell you that He smote 
me with a sore plague in my loins for seven months; and had not Jacob our father 
prayed for me to the Lord, surely the Lord would have destroyed me. For I was 
thirty years old when I did this evil in the sight of the Lord, and for seven 
months I was sick even unto death; and I repented for seven years in the set 
purpose of my soul before the Lord. Wine and strong drink I drank not, and flesh 
entered not into my mouth, and I tasted not pleasant food,
mourning over my sin, for it was great. And it shall not so be done in 
Israel.
2. And now hear me, my children, what things I saw in my repentance 
concerning the seven spirits of error. Seven spirits are given against man from 
Beliar, and they are chief of the works of youth; and seven spirits are given to 
him at his creation, that in them should be done every work of man.
The first (1) spirit is of life, with which man's whole being is created. The 
second (2) spirit is of sight, with which ariseth desire. The third (3) spirit 
is of hearing, with which cometh teaching. The fourth (4) spirit is of smelling, 
with which taste is given to draw air and breath. The fifth (5) spirit is of 
speech, with which cometh knowledge. The sixth (6) spirit is of taste, with 
which cometh the eating of meats and drinks; and by them strength is produced, 
for in food is the foundation of strength. The seventh (7) spirit is of 
begetting and sexual intercourse, with which through love of pleasure sin also 
entereth in: wherefore it is the last in order of creation, and the first of 
youth, because it is filled with ignorance, which leadeth the young as a blind 
man to a pit, and as cattle to a precipice.
3. Besides all these, there is an eighth (8) spirit of sleep, with which is 
created entrancement of man's nature, and the image of death. With these spirits 
are mingled the spirits of error. The first (1), the spirit of fornication, 
dwelleth in the nature and in the senses; the second (2) spirit of insatiateness 
in the belly; the third (3) spirit of fighting in the liver and the gall. The 
fourth (4) is the spirit of fawning and trickery, that through 
over-officiousness a man may be fair in seeming. The fifth (5) is the spirit of 
arrogance, that a man may be stirred up and become high-minded. The sixth (6) is 
the spirit of lying, in perdition and in jealousy to feign words, and to 
conceal
words from kindred and friends. The seventh (7) is the spirit of injustice, with 
which are theft and pilferings, that a man may work the desire of his heart; for 
injustice worketh together with the other spirits by means of craft. Besides all 
these, the spirit of sleep, the eighth (8) spirit, is conjoined with error and 
fantasy. And so perisheth every young man, darkening his mind from the truth, 
and not understanding the law of God, nor obeying the admonitions of his 
fathers, as befell me also in my youth.
And now, children, love the truth, and it shall preserve you. I counsel you, 
hear ye Reuben your father. Pay no heed to the sight of a woman, nor yet 
associate privately with a female under the authority of a husband, nor meddle 
with affairs of womankind. For had I not seen Bilhah bathing in a covered place, 
I had not fallen into this great iniquity.
For my mind, dwelling on the woman's nakedness, suffered me not to sleep until I 
had done the abominable deed. For while Jacob our father was absent with Isaac 
his father, when we were in Gader, near to Ephratha in Bethlehem, Bilhah was 
drunk, and lay asleep uncovered in her chamber; and when I went in and beheld 
her nakedness, I wrought that impiety, and leaving her sleeping I departed. And 
forthwith an angel of God revealed to my father Jacob concerning my impiety, and 
he came and mourned over me, and touched her no more.

4. Pay no heed, therefore, to the beauty of women, and muse not upon their 
doings; but walk in singleness of heart in the fear of the Lord, and be 
labouring in works, and roaming in study and among your flocks, until the Lord 
give to you a wife whom He will, that ye suffer not as I did. Until my father's 
death I had not boldness to look stedfastly into the face of Jacob, or to speak 
to any of my brethren, because of my reproach; and even until now my conscience 
afflicteth me by reason of my sin. And my father comforted me; for he prayed for 
me unto the Lord, that the anger of the Lord might pass away from me, even as 
the Lord showed me. From henceforth, then, I was protected, and I sinned not. 
Therefore, my children, observe all things whatsoever I command you, and ye 
shall not sin. For fornication is the destruction of the soul, separating it 
from God, and bringing it near to idols, because it deceiveth the mind and 
understanding, and bringeth down young men into hell before their time. For many 
hath fornication destroyed; because, though a man be old or noble, it maketh him 
a reproach and a laughing-stock with Beliar and the sons of men. For in that 
Joseph kept himself from every woman, and purged his thoughts from all 
fornication, he found favour before the Lord and men. For the Egyptian woman did 
many things unto him, and called for magicians, and offered him love potions, 
and the purpose of his soul admitted no evil desire. Therefore the God of my 
fathers delivered him from every visible and hidden death. For if fornication 
overcome not the mind, neither shall Beliar overcome you.
5. Hurtful are women, my children; because, since they have no power or 
strength over the man, they act subtilly through outward guise how they may draw 
him to themselves; and whom they cannot overcome by strength, him they overcome 
by craft. For moreover the angel of God told me concerning them, and taught me 
that women are overcome by the spirit of fornication more than men, and they 
devise in their heart against men; and by means of their adornment they deceive 
first their minds, and instil the poison by the glance of their eye, and then 
they take them captive by their doings, for a woman cannot overcome a man by 
force.
Therefore flee fornication, my children, and command your wives and your 
daughters that they adorn not their heads and their faces; because every woman 
who acteth deceitfully in these things hath been reserved to everlasting 
punishment. For thus they allured the Watchers
before the flood; and as these continually beheld them, they fell into desire 
each of the other, and they conceived the act in their mind, and changed 
themselves into the shape of men, and appeared to them in their congress with 
their husbands; and the women, having in their minds desire toward their 
apparitions, gave birth to giants, for the Watchers appeared to them as reaching 
even unto heaven.

6. Beware, therefore, of fornication; and if you wish to be pure in your 
mind, guard your senses against every woman. And command them likewise not to 
company with men, that they also be pure in their mind. For constant meetings, 
even though the ungodly deed be not wrought, are to them an irremediable 
disease, and to us an everlasting reproach of Beliar; for fornication hath 
neither understanding nor godliness in itself, and all jealousy dwelleth in the 
desire thereof. Therefore ye will be jealous against the sons of Levi, and will 
seek to be exalted over them; but ye shall not be able, for God will work their 
avenging, and ye shall die by an evil death. For to Levi the Lord gave the 
sovereignty, and to Judah,
and to me also with them,
and to Dan and Joseph, that we should be for rulers. Therefore I command you to 
hearken to Levi, because he shall know the law of the Lord, and shall give 
ordinances for judgment and sacrifice for all Israel until the completion of the 
times of Christ, the High Priest whom the Lord hath declared. I adjure you by 
the God of heaven to work truth each one with his neighbour; and draw ye near to 
Levi in humbleness of heart, that ye may receive a blessing from his mouth. For 
he shall bless Israel; and specially Judah, because him hath the Lord 
chosen to rule over all the peoples. And worship we his Seed, because He shall 
die for us in wars visible and invisible, and shall be among you an everlasting 
king.
7. And Reuben died after that he had given command to his sons; and they 
placed him in a coffin until they bore him up from Egypt, and buried him in 
Hebron in the double
cave where his fathers were.
II.-The Testament of Simeon Concerning Envy.

II.-The Testament of Simeon 
Concerning Envy.
------------
1. The copy of the words of Simeon, what things he spake to his sons before 
he died, in the hundred and twentieth year of his life, in the year in which 
Joseph died. For they came to visit him when he was sick, and he strengthened 
himself and sat up and kissed them, and said to them:-
2. Hear, O my children, hear Simeon your father, what things I have in my 
heart. I was born of Jacob my father, his second son; and my mother Leah called 
me Simeon, because the Lord heard her prayer. 
I became strong exceedingly; I shrank from no deed, nor was I afraid of 
anything. For my heart was hard, and my mind was unmoveable, and my bowels 
unfeeling: because valour also has been given from the Most High to men in soul 
and in body. And at that time I was jealous of Joseph because our father loved 
him;
and I set my mind against him to destroy him, because the prince of deceit sent 
forth the spirit of jealousy and blinded my mind, that I regarded him not as a 
brother, and spared not Jacob my father. But his God and the God of his fathers 
sent forth His angel, and delivered him out of my hands. For when I went into 
Shechem to bring ointment for the flocks, and Reuben to Dotham, where were our 
necessaries and all our stores, Judah our brother sold him to the Ishmaelites. 
And when Reuben came he was grieved, for he wished to have restored him safe to 
his father.
But I was wroth against Judah in that he let him go away alive, and for five 
months I continued wrathful against him; but God restrained me, and withheld 
from me all working of my hands, for my right hand was half withered for seven 
days. And I knew, my children, that because of Joseph this happened to me, and I 
repented and wept; and I besought the Lord that He would restore my hand unto 
me, and that I might be kept from all pollution and envy, and from all folly. 
For I knew that I had devised an evil deed before the Lord and Jacob my father, 
on account of Joseph my brother, in that I envied him.
3. And now, children, take heed of the spirit of deceit and of envy. For envy 
ruleth over the whole mind of a man, and suffereth him neither to eat, nor to 
drink, nor to do any good thing: it ever suggesteth to him to destroy him that 
he envieth; and he that is envied ever flourisheth, but he that envieth fades 
away. Two years of days I afflicted my soul with fasting in the fear of the 
Lord, and I learnt that deliverance from envy cometh by the fear of God. If a 
man flee to the Lord, the evil spirit runneth away from him, and his mind 
becometh easy. And henceforward he sympathizeth with him whom he envied, and 
condemneth not those who love him, and so ceaseth from his envy.
4. And my father asked concerning me, because he saw that I was sad; and I 
said, I am pained in my liver. For I mourned more than they all, because I was 
guilty of the selling of Joseph. And when we went down into Egypt, and he bound 
the as a spy, I knew that I was suffering justly, and I grieved not. Now Joseph 
was a good man, and had the Spirit of God within him: compassionate and pitiful, 
he bore not malice against me; nay, he loved me even as the rest of his 
brothers. Take heed, therefore, my children, of all jealousy and envy, and walk 
in singleness of soul and with good heart, keeping in mind the brother of your 
father, that God may give to you also grace and glory, and blessing upon your 
heads, even as ye saw in him. All his days he reproached us not concerning this 
thing, but loved us as his own soul, and beyond his own sons; and he glorified 
us, and gave riches, and cattle, and fruits freely to us all. Do ye then also, 
my beloved children, love each one his brother with a good heart, and remove 
from you the spirit of envy, for this maketh savage the soul and destroyeth the 
body; it turneth his purposes into anger and war, and stirreth up unto blood, 
and leadeth the mind into frenzy, and suffereth not prudence to act in men: 
moreover, it taketh away sleep, and causeth tumult to the soul and trembling to 
the body. For even in sleep some malicious jealousy, deluding him, gnaweth at 
his soul, and with wicked spirits disturbeth it, and causeth the body to be 
troubled, and the mind to awake from sleep in confusion; and as though having a 
wicked and poisonous spirit, so appeareth it to men.
5. Therefore was Joseph fair in appearance, and goodly to look upon, because 
there dwelt not in him any wickedness; for in trouble of the spirit the face 
declareth it. And now, my children, make your hearts good before the Lord, and 
your ways straight before men, and ye shall find grace before God and men. And 
take heed not to commit fornication, for fornication is mother of all evils, 
separating from God, and bringing near to Beliar. For I have seen it inscribed 
in the writing of Enoch
that your sons shall with you be corrupted in fornication, and shall do wrong 
against Levi with the sword. But they shall not prevail against Levi, for he 
shall wage the war of the Lord, and shall conquer all your hosts; and there 
shall be a few divided in Levi and Judah, and there shall be none
of you for sovereignty, even as also my father Jacob prophesied in his 
blessings.
6. Behold, I have foretold you all things, that I may be clear from the sin 
of your souls. Now, if ye remove from you your envy, and all your 
stiffneckedness, as a rose shall my bones flourish in Israel, and as a lily my 
flesh in Jacob, and my odour shall be as the odour of Libanus; and as cedars 
shall holy ones be multiplied from me for ever, and their branches shall stretch 
afar off. Then shall perish the seed of Canaan, and a remnant shall not be to 
Amalek, and all the Cappadocians
shall perish, and all the Hittites
shall be utterly destroyed. Then shall fail the land of Ham, and every people 
shall perish. Then shall all the earth rest from trouble, and all the world 
under heaven from war. Then shall Shem be glorified, because the Lord God, the 
Mighty One of Israel, shall appear upon earth as man,
and saved by Him Adam.
Then shall all the spirits of deceit be given to be trampled under foot, and men 
shall rule over the wicked spirits. Then will I arise in joy, and will bless the 
Most High because of His marvellous works, because God hath taken a body and 
eaten with men and saved men.
7. And now, my children, obey Levi, and in Judah shall ye be redeemed:
and be not lifted up against these two tribes, for from them shall arise to you 
the salvation of God. For the Lord shall raise up from Levi as it were a 
Priest,
and from Judah as it were a King, God and man.
So shall He save all the Gentiles and the race of Israel. Therefore I command 
you all things, in order that ye also may command your children, that they may 
observe them throughout their generations.
8. And Simeon made an end of commanding his sons, and slept with his fathers, 
being an hundred and twenty years old. And they laid him in a coffin of 
incorruptible wood, to take up his bones to Hebron. And they carried them up in 
a war of the Egyptians secretly: for the bones of Joseph the Egyptians guarded 
in the treasure-house of the palace; for the sorcerers told them that at the 
departure of the bones of Joseph there should be throughout the whole of Egypt 
darkness and gloom, and an exceeding great plague to the Egyptians, so that even 
with a lamp a man should not recognise his brother.
9. And the sons of Simeon bewailed their father according to the law of 
mourning, and they were in Egypt until the day of their departure from Egypt by 
the hand of Moses.
III.-The Testament of Levi Concerning the Priesthood and 
Arrogance.

III.-The Testament of Levi 
Concerning the Priesthood and Arrogance.
------------
1. The copy of the words of Levi, what things he appointed to his sons, 
according to all that they should do, and what things should befall them until 
the day of judgment. He was in sound health when he called them to him, for it 
had been shown to him that he should die. And when they were gathered together 
be said to them :-
2. I Levi was conceived in Haran and born there, and after that I came with 
my father to Shechem. And I was young, about twenty years of age, when with 
Simeon I wrought the vengeance on Hamor for our sister Dinah. And when we were 
feeding our flocks in Abel-Maul, a spirit of understanding of the Lord came upon 
me,
and I saw all men corrupting their way, and that unrighteousness had built to 
itself walls, and iniquity sat upon towers; and I grieved for the race of men, 
and I prayed to the Lord that I might be saved. Then there fell upon me a sleep, 
and I beheld a high mountain: this is the mountain of Aspis
in Abel-Maul. And behold, the heavens were opened, and an angel of God said to 
me, Levi, enter. And I entered from the first heaven into the second, and I saw 
there water hanging between the one and the other. And I saw a third heaven far 
brighter than those two, for there was in it a height without bounds. And I said 
to the angel, Wherefore is this? And the angel said to me, Marvel not at these, 
for thou shall see four other heavens brighter than these, and without 
comparison, when thou shall have ascended thither: because thou shalt stand near 
the Lord, and shalt be His minister, and shall declare His mysteries to men, and 
shalt proclaim concerning Him who shall redeem Israel; 
and by thee and Judah shall the Lord appear among men, saving in them every race 
of men; and of the portion of the Lord shall be thy life, and He shall be thy 
field and vineyard, fruits, gold, silver.
3. Hear, then, concerning the seven
heavens. The lowest is for this cause more gloomy, in that it is near all the 
iniquities of men. The second hath fire, snow, ice, ready for the day of the 
ordinance of the Lord, in the righteous judgment of God: in it are all the 
spirits of the retributions for vengeance on the wicked. In the third are the 
hosts of the armies which are ordained for the day of judgment, to work 
vengeance on the spirits of deceit and of Beliar. And the heavens up to the 
fourth above these are holy, for in the highest of all dwelleth the Great Glory, 
in the holy of holies, far above all holiness. In the heaven next to it are the 
angels of the presence of the Lord, who minister and make propitiation to the 
Lord for all the ignorances of the righteous; and they offer to the Lord a 
reasonable sweet-smelling savour, and a bloodless offering. And in the heaven 
below this are the angels who bear the answers to the angels of the presence of 
the Lord. And in the heaven next to this are thrones, dominions, in which hymns 
are ever offered to God. Therefore, whenever the Lord looketh upon us, all of us 
are shaken; yea, the heavens, and the earth, and the abysses, are shaken at the 
presence of His majesty; but the sons of men, regarding not these things, sin, 
and provoke the Most High.
4. Now, therefore, know that the Lord will execute judgment upon the sons of 
men; because when the rocks are rent, 
and the sun quenched, and the waters dried up, and the fire trembling, and all 
creation troubled, and the invisible spirits melting away, and the grave
spoiled in the suffering of the Most High,
men unbelieving will abide in their iniquity, therefore with punishment shall 
they be judged. Therefore the Most High hath heard thy prayer, to separate thee 
from iniquity, and that thou shouldest become to Him a son, and a servant, and a 
minister of His presence. A shining light of knowledge shalt thou shine in 
Jacob, and as the sun shalt thou be to all the seed of Israel. And a blessing 
shall be given to thee, and to all thy seed, until the Lord shall visit all the 
heathen in the tender mercies of His Son, even for ever. Nevertheless thy sons 
shall lay hands upon Him to crucify Him; and therefore have counsel and 
understanding been given thee, that thou mightest instruct thy sons concerning 
Him, because he that blesseth Him shall be blessed, but they that curse Him 
shall perish.
5. And the angel opened to me the gates of heaven, and I saw the holy temple, 
and the Most High upon a throne of glory. And He said to me, Levi, I have given 
thee the blessings of the priesthood until that I shall come and sojourn in the 
midst of Israel. Then the angel brought me to the earth, and gave me a shield 
and a sword, and said, Work vengeance on Shechem because of Dinah, and I will be 
with thee, because the Lord hath sent me. And I destroyed at that time the sons 
of Hamor, as it is written in the heavenly tablets.
And I said to Him, I pray Thee, O Lord, tell me Thy name, that I may call upon 
Thee in a day of tribulation. And He said, I am the angel who intercedeth for 
the race of Israel, that He smite them not utterly, because every evil spirit 
attacketh it. And after these things I was as it were awaked, and blessed the 
Most High, and the angel that intercedeth for the race of Israel, and for all 
the righteous.

6. And when I came to my father I found a brazen shield;
wherefore also the name of the mountain is Aspis, which is near Gebal, on the 
right side of Abila; and I kept these words in my heart. I took counsel with my 
father, and with Reuben my brother, that he should bid the sons of Hamor that 
they should be circumcised; for I was jealous because of the abomination which 
they had wrought in Israel. And I slew Shechem at the first, and Simeon slew 
Hamor. And after this our brethren came and smote the city with the edge of the 
sword; and our father heard it and was wroth, and he was grieved in that they 
had received the circumcision, and after that had been put to death, and in his 
blessings he dealt otherwise with us. For we sinned because we had done 
this thing against his will, and he was sick upon that day. But I knew that the 
sentence of God was for evil upon Shechem; for they sought to do to Sarah as 
they did to Dinah our sister, and the Lord hindered them. And so they persecuted 
Abraham our father when he was a stranger, and they harried his flocks when they 
were multiplied upon him; and Jeblae his servant, born in his house, they 
shamefully handled. And thus they did to all strangers, taking away their wives 
by force, and the men themselves driving into exile. But the wrath of the Lord 
came suddenly upon them to the uttermost.

7. And I said to my father, Be not angry, sir, because by thee will the Lord 
bring to nought the Canaanites, and will give their land to thee, and to thy 
seed after thee. For from this day forward shall Shechem be called a city of 
them that are without understanding; for as a man mocketh at a fool, so did we 
mock them, because they wrought folly in Israel to defile our sister. And we 
took our sister from thence, and departed, and came to Bethel.
8. And there I saw a thing again even as the former, after we had passed 
seventy days. And I saw seven men in white raiment saying to me, Arise, put on 
the robe of the priesthood, and the crown of righteousness, and the breastplate 
of understanding, and the garment of truth, and the diadem of faith, and the 
tiara of miracle, and the ephod of prophecy.
And each one of them bearing each of these things put them on me, and said, From 
henceforth become a priest of the Lord, thou and thy seed for ever. And the 
first anointed me with holy oil, and gave to me the rod of judgment. The second 
washed me with pure water, and fed me with bread and wine, the most holy 
things,
and clad me with a holy and glorious robe. The third clothed me with a linen 
vestment like to an ephod. The fourth put round me a girdle like unto purple. 
The fifth gave to me a branch of rich olive. The sixth placed a crown on my 
head. The seventh placed on my head a diadem of priesthood, and filled my hands 
with incense, so that I served as a priest to the Lord. And they said to me, 
Levi, thy seed shall be divided into three branches,
for a sign of the glory of the Lord who is to come; and first shall he be that 
hath been faithful; no portion shall be greater than his. The second shall be in 
the priesthood. The third-a new name shall be called over Him, because He shall 
arise as King from Judah, and shall establish a new priesthood, after the 
fashion of the Gentiles, to all the Gentiles.
And His appearing shall be unutterable, as of an exalted 
prophet of the seed of Abraham our father. Every desirable thing in Israel shall 
be for thee and for thy seed, and everything fair to look upon shall ye eat, and 
the table of the Lord shall thy seed apportion, and some of them shall be high 
priests, and judges, and scribes; for by their mouth shall the holy place be 
guarded. And when I awoke, I understood that this thing was like unto the 
former. And I hid this also in my heart, and told it not to any man upon the 
earth.
9. And after two days I and Judah went up to Isaac after
our father; and the father of my father blessed me according to all the words of 
the visions which I had seen: and he would not come with us to Bethel. And when 
we came to Bethel, my father Jacob saw in a vision concerning me, that I should 
be to them for a priest unto the Lord; and he rose up early in the morning, and 
paid tithes of all to the Lord through me. And we came to Hebron to dwell there, 
and Isaac called me continually to put me in remembrance of the law of the Lord, 
even as the angel of God showed to me. And he taught me the law of the 
priesthood, of sacrifices, whole burnt-offerings, first-fruits, free-will 
offerings, thank-offerings. And each day he was instructing me, and was busied 
for me before the Lord. And he said to me, Take heed, my child, of the spirit of 
fornication; for this shall continue, and shall by thy seed pollute the holy 
things. Take therefore to thyself, while yet thou art young, a wife, not having 
blemish, nor yet polluted, nor of the race of the Philistines or Gentiles. And 
before entering into the holy place, bathe;
and when thou offerest the sacrifice, wash; and again when thou finishest the 
sacrifice, wash. Of twelve trees ever having leaves, offer up the fruits 
to the Lord, as also Abraham taught me; and of every clean beast and clean bird 
offer a sacrifice to the Lord, and of every firstling and of wine offer 
first-fruits; and every sacrifice thou shalt salt with salt.

10. Now, therefore, observe whatsoever I command you, children; for 
whatsoever things I have heard from my fathers I have made known to you. I am 
clear from all your ungodliness and transgression which ye will do in the end of 
the ages against the Saviour of the world, acting ungodly, deceiving Israel, and 
raising up against it great evils from the Lord.
And ye will deal lawlessly with Israel, so that Jerusalem shall not endure your 
wickedness; but the veil of the temple shall be rent, so as not to cover your 
shame. And ye shall be scattered as captives among the heathen, and shall be for 
a reproach and for a curse, and for a trampling under foot. For the house which 
the Lord shall choose shall be called Jerusalem, as is contained in the book of 
Enoch the righteous.

11. Therefore, when I took a wife I was twenty-eight years old, and her name 
was Melcha. And she conceived and bare a son, and she called his name Gersham, 
for we were sojourners in our land: for Gersham is interpreted sojourning. And I 
saw concerning him that he would not be in the first rank. And Kohath was born 
in my thirty-fifth year, towards the east. And I saw in a vision that he was 
standing on high in the midst of all the congregation. Therefore I called his 
name Kohath, which meaneth, beginning of majesty and instruction. And thirdly, 
she bare to me Merari, in the fortieth year of my life; and since his mother 
bare him with difficulty, she called him Merari, which meaneth my bitterness, 
because he also died. And Jochebed was born in my sixty-fourth year, in Egypt, 
for I was renowned then in the midst of my brethren.
12. And Gersham took a wife, and she bare to him Lomni and Semei. And the 
sons of Kohath, Ambram, Isaar, Chebro, and Ozel. And the sons of Merari, Mooli 
and Homusi. And in my ninety-fourth year Ambram took Jochebed my daughter to him 
to wife, for they were born in one day, he and my daughter. Eight years old was 
I when I went into the land of Canaan, and eighteen years when I slew Shechem, 
and at nineteen years I became priest, and at twenty-eight years I took a wife, 
and at forty years I went into Egypt. And behold, ye are my children, my 
children even of a third generation. In my hundred and eighteenth year 
Joseph died.
13. And now, my children, I command you that ye fear our Lord with your whole 
heart, and walk in simplicity according to all His 
law. And do ye also teach your children learning, that they may have 
understanding in all their life, reading unceasingly the law of God; for every 
one who shall know the law of God shall be honoured, and shall not be a stranger 
wheresoever he goeth. Yea, many friends shall he gain more than his forefathers; 
and many men shall desire to serve him, and to hear the law from his mouth. Work 
righteousness, my children, upon the earth, that ye may find treasure in 
the heavens, and sow good things in your souls, that ye may find them in your 
life. For if ye sow evil things, ye shall reap all trouble and affliction. Get 
wisdom in the fear of God with diligence; for though there shall be a leading 
into captivity, and cities be destroyed, and lands and gold and silver and every 
possession shall perish, the wisdom of the wise none can take away, save the 
blindness of ungodliness and the palsy of sin: for even among his enemies shall 
it be to him glorious, and in a strange country a home, and in the midst of foes 
shall it be found a friend. If a man teach these things and do them, he shall be 
enthroned with kings, as was also Joseph our brother.
14. And now, my children, I have learnt from the writing of Enoch that at the 
last ye will deal ungodly, laying your hands upon the Lord in all malice; and 
your brethren shall be ashamed because of you, and to all the Gentiles shall it 
become a mocking. For our father Israel shall be pure from the ungodliness of 
the chief priests who shall lay their hands upon the Saviour of the world. Pure 
is the heaven above the earth, and ye are the lights of the heaven as the sun 
and the moon. What shall all the Gentiles do if ye be darkened in ungodliness? 
So shall ye bring a curse upon our race for whom came the light of the world, 
which was given among you for the lighting up of every man. 
Him will ye desire to slay, teaching commandments contrary to the ordinances of 
God. The offerings of the Lord will ye rob, and from His portion will ye steal; 
and before ye sacrifice to the Lord, ye will take the choicest parts, in 
despitefulness eating them with harlots. Amid excesses
will ye teach the commandments of the Lord, the women that have husbands will ye 
pollute, and the virgins of Jerusalem will ye defile; and with harlots and 
adulteresses will ye be joined. The daughters of the Gentiles will ye take for 
wives, purifying them with an unlawful purification; and your union shall be 
like unto Sodom and Gomorrah in ungodliness. And ye will be puffed up because of 
the priesthood lifting yourselves up against men. And not only so, but being 
puffed up also against the commands of God, ye will scoff at the holy things, 
mocking in despitefulness.
15. Therefore the temple which the Lord shall choose shall be desolate in 
uncleanness, and ye shall be captives throughout all nations, and ye shall be an 
abomination among them, and ye shall receive reproach and everlasting shame from 
the righteous judgment of God; and all who see you shall flee from you. And were 
it not for Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob our fathers, not one from my seed should be 
left upon the earth.
16. And now I have learnt in the book of Enoch that for seventy weeks will ye 
go astray, and will profane the priesthood, and pollute the sacrifices, and 
corrupt the law, and set at nought the words of the prophets. In perverseness ye 
will persecute righteous men, and hate the godly; the words of the faithful will 
ye abhor, and the man who reneweth the law in the power of the Most High will ye 
call a deceiver; 
and at last, as ye suppose, ye will slay Him, not understanding His 
resurrection, wickedly taking upon your own heads the innocent blood.
Because of Him shall your holy places be desolate, polluted even to the ground, 
and ye shall have no place that is clean; but ye shall be among the Gentiles a 
curse and a dispersion, until He shall again look upon you, and in pity shall 
take you to Himself through faith and water.

17. And because ye have heard concerning the seventy weeks, hear also 
concerning the priesthood; for in each jubilee there shall be a priesthood. In 
the first jubilee, the first who is anointed into the priesthood shall be great, 
and shall speak to God as to a Father; and his priesthood shall be filled with 
the fear of the Lord, and in the day of his gladness shall he arise for the 
salvation of the world. In the second jubilee, he that is anointed shall be 
conceived in the sorrow of beloved ones; and his priesthood shall be honoured, 
and shall be glorified among all. And the third priest shall be held fast in 
sorrow; and the fourth shall be in grief, because unrighteousness shall be laid 
upon him exceedingly, and all Israel shall hate each one his neighbour. The 
fifth shall be held fast in darkness, likewise also the sixth and the seventh. 
And in the seventh there shall be such pollution as I am not able to express, 
before the Lord and men, for they shall know it who do these things. Therefore 
shall they be in captivity and for a prey, and their land and their substance 
shall be destroyed. And in the fifth week they shall return into their desolate 
country, and shall renew the house of the Lord. And in the seventh week shall 
come the priests, worshippers of idols, contentious, lovers of money, proud, 
lawless, lascivious, abusers of children and beasts.
18. And after their punishment shall have come from the Lord, then will the 
Lord raise up to the priesthood a new Priest, to whom all the words of the Lord 
shall be revealed; and He shall execute a judgment of truth upon the 
earth,
in the fulness of days. And His star shall arise in heaven,
as a king shedding forth the light of knowledge in the sunshine of day, and He 
shall be magnified in the world until His ascension. He shall shine forth as the 
sun in the earth, and shall drive away all darkness from the world under heaven, 
and there shall be peace in all the earth. The heavens shall rejoice in His 
days, and the earth shall be glad, and the clouds shall be joyful, and the 
knowledge of the Lord shall be poured forth upon the earth, as the water of 
seas; and the angels of the glory of the presence of the Lord shall be glad in 
Him. The heavens shall be opened, and from the temple of glory shall the 
sanctification come upon Him with the Father's voice, as from Abraham the father 
of Isaac. And the glory of the Most High shall be uttered over Him, and the 
spirit of understanding and of sanctification shall rest upon Him in the water. 
He shall give the majesty of the Lord to His sons in truth for evermore; and 
there shall none succeed Him for all generations, even for ever. 
And in His priesthood shall all sin come to an end, and the lawless shall rest 
from evil, and the just shall rest in Him. And He shall open the gates of 
paradise, and shall remove
the threatening sword against Adam; and He shall give to His saints to eat from 
the tree of life,
and the spirit of holiness shall be on them. And Beliar shall be bound by Him, 
and He shall give power to His children to tread upon the evil spirits.
And the Lord shall rejoice in His children, and the Lord shall be well pleased 
in His beloved for ever. Then shall Abraham and Isaac and Jacob be joyful, and I 
will be glad, and all the saints shall put on gladness.
19. And now, my children, ye have heard all; choose therefore for yourselves 
either the darkness or the light, either the law of the Lord or the works of 
Beliar. And we answered our father, saying, Before the Lord will we walk 
according to His law. And our father said, The Lord is witness, and His angels 
are witnesses, and I am witness, and ye are witnesses, concerning the word of 
your mouth. And we said, We are witnesses. And thus Levi ceased giving charge to 
his sons; and he stretched out his feet, and was gathered to his fathers, after 
he had lived a hundred and thirty-seven years. And they laid him in a coffin, 
and afterwards they buried him in Hebron, by the side of Abraham, and Isaac, and 
Jacob.
IV.-The Testament of Judah Concerning Fortitude, and Love of 
Money, and Fornication.

IV.-The Testament of Judah 
Concerning Fortitude, and Love of Money, and Fornication.
------------
1. The copy of the words of Judah, what things he spake to his sons before he 
died. They gathered themselves together, and came to him, and he said to them: I 
was the fourth son born to my father, and my mother called me Judah, saying, I 
give thanks to the Lord, because He hath given to me even a fourth son.
I was swift and active in my youth, and obedient to my father in everything. And 
I honoured my mother and my mother's sister. And it came to pass, when I became 
a man, that my father Jacob prayed over me, saying, Thou shall be a king, and 
prosperous in all things.
2. And the Lord showed me favour in all my works both in the field and at 
home. When I saw that I could run with the hind, then I caught it, and prepared 
meat for my father. I seized upon the roes in the chase, and all that was in the 
plains I outran. A wild mare I outran, and I caught it and tamed it; and I slew 
a lion, and plucked a kid out of its mouth. I took a bear by its paw, and rolled 
it over a cliff; and if any beast turned upon me, I rent it like a dog. I 
encountered the wild boar, and overtaking it in the chase, I tore it. A leopard 
in Hebron leaped upon the dog, and I caught it by the tail, and flung it from 
me, and it was dashed to pieces in the coasts of Gaza. A wild ox feeding in the 
field I seized by the horns; and whirling it round and stunning it, I cast it 
from me, and slew it.
3. And when the two kings of the Canaanites came in warlike array against our 
flocks, and much people with them, I by myself rustled upon King Sur and seized 
him; and I beat him upon the legs, and dragged him down, and so I slew him. And 
the other king, Taphue, 
I slew as he sat upon his horse, and so I scattered all the people. Achor the 
king, a man of giant stature, hurling darts before and behind as he sat on 
horseback, I slew; for I hurled a stone of sixty pounds weight, and cast it upon 
his horse, and killed him. And I fought with Achor for two hours, and I killed 
him; and I clave his shield into two parts, and I chopped off his feet. And as I 
stripped off his breastplate, behold, eight men his companions began to fight 
with me. I wound round therefore my garment in my hand; and I slang stones at 
them, and killed four of them, and the rest fled. And Jacob my father slew 
Beelisa, king of all the kings, a giant in strength, twelve cubits high; and 
fear fell upon them, and they ceased from making war with us. Therefore my 
father had no care in the wars when I was among my brethren. For he saw in a 
vision concerning me, that an angel of might followed me everywhere, that I 
should not be overcome.
4. And in the south there befell us a greater war than that in Shechem; and I 
joined in battle array with my brethren, and pursued a thousand men, and slew of 
them two hundred men and four kings. And I went up against them upon the wall, 
and two other kings I slew; and so we freed Hebron, and took all the captives of 
the kings.
5. On the next day we departed to Areta,
a city strong and walled and inaccessible, threatening us with death. Therefore 
I and Gad approached on the east side of the city, and Reuben and Levi on the 
west and south. And they that were upon the wall, thinking that we were alone, 
charged down upon us; and so our brethren secretly climbed up the wall on both 
sides by ladders, and entered into the city, while the men knew it not. And we 
took it with the edge of the sword; and those who had taken refuge in the 
tower,-we set fire to the tower, and took both it and them. And as we were 
departing the men of Thaffu set upon our captives, and we took it with our sons, 
and fought with them even to Thaffu; and we slew them, and burnt their city, and 
spoiled all the things that were therein.
6. And when I was at the waters of Chuzeba,
the men of Jobel came against us to battle, and we fought with them; and their 
allies from Selom
we slew, and we allowed them no means of escaping, and of coming against us. And 
the men of Machir
came upon us on the fifth day, to carry away our captives; and we attacked them, 
and overcame them in fierce battle: for they were a host and mighty in 
themselves, and we slew them before they had gone up the ascent of the hill. And 
when we came to their city, their women rolled upon us stones from the brow of 
the hill on which the city stood. And I and Simeon hid ourselves behind the 
town, and seized upon the heights, and utterly destroyed the whole city.
7. And the next day it was told us that the cities
of the two kings with a great host were coming against us. I therefore and Dan 
reigned ourselves to be Amorites, and went as allies into their city. And in the 
depth of night our brethren came, and we opened to them the gates; and we 
destroyed all the men and their substance, and we took for a prey all that was 
theirs, and their three walls we cast down. And we drew near to Thamna,
where was all the refuge of the hostile kings. Then having received hurt I was 
wroth, and charged upon them to the brow of the hill; and they slang at me with 
stones and darts; and had not Dan my brother aided me, they would have been able 
to slay me. We came upon them therefore with wrath, and they all fled; and 
passing by another way, they besought my father, and he made peace with them, 
and we did to them no hurt, but made a truce with them, and restored to them all 
the captives. And I built Thamna, and my father built Rhambael.
I was twenty years old when this war befell, and the Canaanites feared me and my 
brethren.
8. Moreover, I had much cattle, and I had for the chief of my herdsmen 
Iran
the Adullamite. And when I went to him I saw Barsan, king of Adullam, and he 
made us a feast; and he entreated me, and gave me his daughter Bathshua to wife. 
She bare me Er, and Onan, and Shelah; and the two of them the Lord smote that 
they died childless: for Shelah lived, and his children are ye.
9. Eighteen years we abode at peace, our father and we, with his brother 
Esau, and his sons with us, after that we came from Mesopotamia, from Laban. And 
when eighteen years were fulfilled, in the fortieth year of my life, Esau, the 
brother of my father, came upon us with much people and strong; and he fell by 
the bow of Jacob, and was taken up dead in Mount Seir: even as he went above 
Iramna
was he slain. And we pursued after the sons of Esau. Now they had a city with 
walls of iron and gates of brass; and we could not enter into it, and we 
encamped around, and besieged them. And when they opened not to us after twenty 
days, I set up a ladder in the sight of all, and with my shield upon my head I 
climbed up, assailed with stones of three talents' weight; and I climbed up, and 
slew four who were mighty among them. And the next day Reuben and Gad entered in 
and slew sixty others. Then they asked from us terms of peace; and being aware 
of our father's purpose, we received them as tributaries. And they gave us two 
hundred cors of wheat, five hundred baths of oil, fifteen hundred measures of 
wine, until we went down into Egypt.
10. After these things, my son Er took to wife Tamar, from Mesopotamia, a 
daughter of Aram.
Now Er was wicked, and he doubted concerning Tamar, because she was not of the 
land of Canaan. And on the third day an angel of the Lord smote him in the 
night, and he had not known her, according to the evil craftiness of his mother, 
for he did not wish to have children from her. In the days of the wedding-feast 
I espoused Onan to her; and he also in wickedness knew her not, though he lived 
with her a year. And when I threatened him, he lay with her, 
...according to the command of his mother, and he also died in his wickedness. 
And I wished to give Shelah also to her, but my wife Bathshua suffered it not; 
for she bore a spite against Tamar, because she was not of the daughters of 
Canaan, as she herself was.
11. And I knew that the race of Canaan was wicked, but the thoughts of youth 
blinded my heart. And when I saw her pouring out wine, in the drunkenness of 
wine was I deceived, and I fell before her. And while I was away, she went and 
took for Shelah a wife from the land of Caanan. And when I knew what she had 
done, I cursed her in the anguish of my soul, and she also died in the 
wickedness of her sons.
12. And after these things, while Tamar was a widow, she heard after two 
years that I was going up to shear my sheep; then she decked herself in bridal 
array, and sat over against the city by the gate. For it is a law of the 
Amorites, that she who is about to marry sit in fornication seven days by the 
gate.
I therefore, being drunk at the waters of Chozeb, recognised her not by reason 
of wine; and her beauty deceived me, through the fashion of her adorning. And I 
turned aside to her, and said, I would enter in to thee. And she said to me, 
What wilt thou give me? And I gave her my staff, and my girdle, and my royal 
crown; and I lay with her, and she conceived. I then, not knowing what she had 
done, wished to slay her; but she privily sent my pledges, and put me to shame. 
And when I called her, I heard also the secret words which I spoke when lying 
with her in my drunkenness; and I could not slay her, because it was from the 
Lord. For I said, Lest haply she did it in subtlety, and received the pledge 
from another woman: but I came near her no more till my death, because I had 
done this abomination in all Israel. Moreover, they who were in the city said 
that there was no bride in the city, because she came from another place, and 
sat for awhile in the gate, and she thought that no one knew that I had gone in 
to her.
And after this we came into Egypt to Joseph, because of the famine. Forty and 
six years old was I, and seventy and three years lived I there.
13. And now, my children, in what things so ever I command you hearken to 
your father, and keep all my sayings to perform the ordinances of the Lord, and 
to obey the command of the Lord God. And walk not after your lusts, nor in the 
thoughts of your imaginations in the haughtiness of your heart; and glory not in 
the works of the strength of youth, for this also is evil in the eyes of the 
Lord. For since I also gloried that in wars the face of no woman of goodly form 
ever deceived me, and upbraided Reuben my brother concerning Bilhah, the wife of 
my father, the spirits of jealousy and of fornication arrayed themselves within 
me, until I fell before Bathshua the Canaanite, and Tamar who was espoused to my 
sons, And I said to my father-in-law, I will counsel with my father, and so will 
I take thy daughter. And he showed me a boundless store of gold in his 
daughter's behalf, for he was a king. And he decked her with gold and pearls, 
and caused her to pour out wine for us at the feast in womanly beauty. And the 
wine led my eyes astray, and pleasure blinded my heart; and I loved her, and I 
fell, and transgressed the commandment of the Lord and the commandment of my 
fathers, and I took her to wife. And the Lord rewarded me according to the 
thought of my heart, insomuch that I had no joy in her children.
14. And now, my children, be not drunk with wine; for wine turneth the mind 
away from the truth, and kindleth in it the passion of lust, and leadeth the 
eyes into error. For the spirit of fornication hath wine as a minister to give 
pleasures to the mind; for these two take away the power from a man. For if a 
man drink wine to drunkenness, he disturbeth his mind with filthy thoughts to 
fornication, and exciteth his body to carnal union; and if the cause of the 
desire be present, he worketh the sin, and is not ashamed. Such is wine, my 
children; for he who is drunken reverenceth no man. For, lo, it made me also to 
err, so that I was not ashamed of the multitude in the city, because before the 
eyes of all I turned aside unto Tamar, and I worked a great sin, and I uncovered 
the covering of the shame of my sons. After that I drank wine I reverenced not 
the commandment of God, and I took a woman of Canaan to wife. Wherefore, my 
children, he who drinketh wine needeth discretion; and herein is discretion in 
drinking wine, that a man should drink as long as he keepeth decency; but if he 
go beyond this bound, the spirit of deceit attacketh his mind and worketh his 
will; and it maketh the drunkard to talk filthily, and to transgress and not to 
be ashamed, but even to exult in his dishonour, accounting himself to do 
well.
15. He that committeth fornication, and
uncovereth his nakedness, hath become the servant of fornication, and escapeth 
not
from the power thereof, even as I also was uncovered. For I gave my staff, that 
is, the stay of my tribe; and my girdle, that is, my power; and my diadem, that 
is, the glory of my kingdom. Then I repented for these things, and took no wine 
or flesh until my old age, nor did I behold any joy. And the angel of God showed 
me that for ever do women bear rule over king and beggar alike; and from the 
king they take away his glory, and from the valiant man his strength, and from 
the beggar even that little which is the stay of his poverty. 
16. Observe therefore, my children, moderation in wine; for there are in it 
four evil spirits-of (1) lust, of (2) wrath, of (3) riot, of (4) filthy lucre. 
If ye drink wine in gladness, with shamefacedness, with the fear of God, ye 
shall live. For if ye drink not with shamefacedness, and the fear of God 
departeth from you, then cometh drunkenness, and shamelessness stealeth in. 
But
even if ye drink not at all, take heed lest ye sin in words of outrage, 
and fighting, and slander, and transgression of the commandments of God; so 
shall ye perish before your time. Moreover, wine revealeth the mysteries of God 
and men to aliens, even as I also revealed the commandments of God and the 
mysteries of Jacob my father to the Canaanitish Bathshua, to whom God forbade to 
declare them. And wine also is a cause of war and confusion.
17. I charge you, therefore, my children, not to love money, nor to gaze upon 
the beauty of women; because for the sake of money and beauty I was led astray 
to Bathshua the Canaanite. For I know that because of these two things shall ye 
who are my race fall into wickedness; for even wise men among my sons shall they 
mar, and shall cause the kingdom of Judah to be diminished, which the Lord gave 
me because of my obedience to my father.
For I never disobeyed a word of Jacob my father, for all things whatsoever he 
commanded I did. And Abraham, the father of my father, blessed me that I should 
be king in Israel, and Isaac further blessed me in like manner. And I know that 
from me shall the kingdom be established.
18. For I have read also in the books of Enoch the righteous what evils ye 
shall do in the last days. Take heed, therefore, my children, of fornication and 
the love of money; hearken to Judah your father, for these things do withdraw 
you from the law of God, and blind the understanding of the soul, and teach 
arrogance, and suffer not a man to have compassion upon his neighbour: they rob 
his soul of all goodness, and bind him in toils and troubles, and take away his 
sleep and devour his flesh, and hinder the sacrifices of God; and he remembereth 
not blessing, and he hearkeneth not to a prophet when he speaketh, and is vexed 
at the word of godliness. For one who serveth two passions contrary to the 
commandments of God cannot obey God, because they have blinded his soul, and he 
walketh in the day-time as in the night.
19. My children, the love of money leadeth to idols; because, when led astray 
through money, men make mention of those who are no gods, and it causeth him who 
hath it to fall into madness. For the sake of money I lost my children, and but 
for the repentance of my flesh, and the humbling of my soul, and the prayers of 
Jacob my father, I should have died childless. But the God of my fathers, who is 
pitiful and merciful, pardoned me, because I did it in ignorance.
For the prince of deceit blinded me, and I was ignorant as a man and as flesh, 
being corrupted in sins; and I learnt my own weakness while thinking myself 
unconquerable.

20.
Learn therefore, my children, that two spirits wait upon man-the spirit of truth 
and the spirit of error; and in the midst is the spirit of the understanding of 
the mind, to which it belongeth to turn whithersoever it will. And the works of 
truth and the works of error are written upon the breast of men, and each one of 
them the Lord knoweth. And there is no time at which the works of men can be hid 
from Him; for on the bones of his breast hath he been written down before the 
Lord. And the spirit of truth testifieth all things, and accuseth all; and he 
who sinneth is burnt up by his own heart, and cannot raise his face unto the 
Judge.
21. And now, my children, love Levi, that ye may abide, and exalt not 
yourselves against him, lest ye be utterly destroyed. For to me the Lord gave 
the kingdom, and to him the priesthood, and He set the kingdom beneath the 
priesthood. To me He gave the things upon the earth; to him the things in the 
heavens. As the heaven is higher than the earth, so is the priesthood of God 
higher than the kingdom upon the earth. For the Lord chose him above thee, to 
draw near to Him, and to eat of His table and first-fruits, even the choice 
things of the sons of Israel, and thou shall be to them as a sea. For as, on the 
sea, just and unjust are tossed about, some taken into captivity while others 
are enriched, so also shall every race of men be in thee, some are in jeopardy 
and taken captive, and others shall grow rich by means of plunder. For they who 
rule will be as great sea-monsters, swallowing up men like fishes: free sons and 
daughters do they enslave; houses, lands, flocks, money, will they plunder; and 
with the flesh of many will they wrongfully feed the ravens and the cranes; and 
they will go on further in evil, advancing on still in covetousness. And there 
shall be false prophets like tempests, and they shall persecute all righteous 
men.
22. And the Lord shall bring upon them divisions one against another, and 
there shall be continual wars in Israel; and among men of other race shall my 
kingdom be brought to an end, until the salvation of Israel shall come, until 
the appearing of the God of righteousness, that Jacob and all the Gentiles may 
rest in peace.
And he shall guard the might of my kingdom for ever: for the Lord sware to me 
with an oath that the kingdom should never fail from me, and from my seed for 
all days, even for ever.
23. Now I have much grief, my children, because of your lewdness, and 
witchcrafts, and idolatries, which ye will work against the kingdom, following 
them that have familiar spirits ye
will make your daughters singing girls
and harlots for divinations and demons of error, and ye will be mingled in the 
pollutions of the Gentiles: for which things' sake the Lord shall bring upon you 
famine and pestilence, death and the sword, avenging siege, and dogs for the 
rending in pieces of enemies, and revilings of friends, destruction and 
blighting of eyes, children slaughtered, wives carried off, possessions 
plundered, temple of God in flames, your land desolated, your own selves 
enslaved among the Gentiles, and they shall make some of you eunuchs for their 
wives; and whenever ye will return to the Lord with humility of heart, repenting 
and walking in all the commandments of God, then will the Lord visit you in 
mercy and in love, bringing you from out of the bondage of your enemies.
24. And after these things shall a Star arise to you from Jacob in peace, and 
a Man shall rise from my seed, like the Sun of righteousness, walking with the 
sons of men
in meekness and righteousness, and no sin shall be found in Him. And the heavens 
shall be opened above Him, to shed forth the blessing of the Spirit from the 
Holy Father; and He shall shed forth a spirit of grace upon you, and ye shall be 
unto Him sons in truth, and ye shall walk in His commandments, the first and the 
last. This is the Branch of God Most High, and this the Well-spring unto life 
for all flesh.
Then shall the sceptre of my kingdom shine forth, and from your root shall arise 
a stem; and in it shall arise a rod of righteousness to the Gentiles, to judge 
and to save all that call upon the Lord.
25. And after these things shall Abraham and Isaac and Jacob arise unto life, 
and I and my brethren will be chiefs, even your sceptre in Israel: Levi first, I 
the second, Joseph third, Benjamin fourth, Simeon fifth, Issachar sixth, and so 
all in order. And the Lord blessed Levi; the Angel of the Presence, me; the 
powers of glory, 
Simeon; the heaven, Reuben; the earth, Issachar; the sea, Zebulun; the 
mountains, Joseph; the tabernacle, Benjamin; the lights of heaven, Dan; the 
fatness of earth, Naphtali; the sun, Gad; the olive, Asher: and there shall be 
one people of the Lord, and one tongue; and there shall no more be a spirit of 
deceit of Beliar, for he shall be cast into the fire for ever. And they who have 
died in grief shall arise in joy, and they who have lived in poverty for the 
Lord's sake shall be made rich, and they who have been in want shall be filled, 
and they who have been weak shall be made strong, and they who have been put to 
death for the Lord's sake shall awake in life.
And the harts of Jacob shall run in joyfulness, and the eagles of Israel shall 
fly in gladness; but the ungodly shall lament, and sinners all weep, and all the 
people shall glorify the Lord for ever.
26. Observe, therefore, my children, all the law of the Lord, for there is 
hope for all them who follow His way aright. And he said to them: I die before 
your eyes this day, a hundred and nineteen years old. Let no one bury me in 
costly apparel, nor tear open my bowels,
for this shall they who are kings do: and carry me up to Hebron with you. And 
Judah, when he had said these things, fell asleep; and his sons did according to 
all whatsoever he commanded them, and they buried him in Hebron with his 
fathers.

V.-The Testament of 
Issachar Concerning Simplicity.
------------
1. The record of the words of Issachar. He called his sons, and said to them: 
Hearken, my children, to Issachar your father; give ear to my words, ye who are 
beloved of the Lord. I was the fifth son born to Jacob, even the hire of the 
mandrakes. 
For Reuben
brought in mandrakes from the field, and Rachel met him and took them. And 
Reuben wept, and at his voice Leah my mother came forth. Now these mandrakes 
were sweet-smelling apples which the land of Aram produced on high ground below 
a ravine of water. And Rachel said, I will not give them to thee, for they shall 
be to me instead of children. Now there were two apples; and Leaf said, Let it 
suffice thee that thou hast taken the husband of my virginity: wilt thou also 
take these? And she said, Behold, let Jacob be to thee this night instead of the 
mandrakes of thy son. And Leah said to her, Boast not, and vaunt not thyself; 
for Jacob is mine, and I am the wife of his youth. But Rachel said, How so? for 
to me was he first espoused, and for my sake he served our father fourteen 
years. What shall I do to thee, because the craft and the subtlety of men are 
increased, and craft prospereth upon the earth? And were it not so, thou 
wouldest not now see the face of Jacob. For thou art not his wife, but in craft 
wert taken to him in my stead. And my father deceived me, and removed me on that 
night, and suffered me not to see him; for had I been there, it had not happened 
thus. And Rachel said, Take one mandrake, and for the other thou shalt hire him 
from me for one night. And Jacob knew Leah, and she conceived and bare me, and 
on account of the hire
I was called Issachar.
2. Then appeared to Jacob an angel of the Lord, saying, Two children shall 
Rachel bear; for she hath refused company with her husband, and hath chosen 
continency. And had not Leah my mother given up the two apples for the sake of 
his company, she would have borne eight sons; and for this thing she bare six, 
and Rachel two: because on account of the mandrakes the Lord visited her. For He 
knew that for the sake of children she wished to company with Jacob, and not for 
lust of pleasure.
For she went further, and on the morrow too gave up Jacob that she might receive 
also the other mandrake. Therefore the Lord hearkened to Rachel because of the 
mandrakes: for though she desired them, she ate them not, but brought them to 
the priest of the Most High who was at that time, and offered them up in the 
house of the Lord.
3. When, therefore, I grew up, my children, I walked in uprightness of heart, 
and I became a husbandman for my parents and my brethren, and I brought in 
fruits from the field according to their season; and my father blessed me, for 
he saw that I walked in simplicity. And I was not a busybody in my doings, nor 
malicious and slanderous against my neighbour. I never spoke against any one, 
nor did I censure the life of any man, but walked in the simplicity of my eyes. 
Therefore when I was thirty years old I took to myself a wife, for my labour 
wore away my strength, and I never thought upon pleasure with women; but through 
my labour my sleep sufficed me, and my father always rejoiced in my simplicity. 
For on whatever I laboured I offered first to the Lord, by the hands of the 
priests, of all my produce and all first-fruits; then to my father, and then 
took for myself. And the Lord increased twofold His benefits in my hands; and 
Jacob also knew that God aided my simplicity, for on every poor man and every 
one in distress I bestowed the good things of the earth in simplicity of 
heart.
4. And now hearken to me, my children, and walk in simplicity of heart, for I 
have seen in it all that is well-pleasing to the Lord. The simple coveteth not 
gold, defraudeth not his neighbour, longeth not after manifold dainties, 
delighteth not in varied apparel, doth not picture to himself to live a long 
life, but only waiteth for the will of God, and the spirits of error have no 
power against him. For he cannot allow within his mind a thought of female 
beauty, that he should not pollute his mind in corruption. No envy can enter 
into his thoughts, no jealousy melteth away his soul, nor doth he brood over 
gain with insatiate desire; for he walketh in uprightness of life, and beholdeth 
all things in simplicity, not admitting in his eyes malice from the error of the 
world, lest he should see the perversion of any of the commandments of the 
Lord.
5. Keep therefore the law of God, my children, and get simplicity, and walk 
in guilelessness, not prying over-curiously into the commands of God and the 
business of your neighbour; but love the Lord and your neighbour, have 
compassion on the poor and weak. Bow down your back unto husbandry, and labour 
in tillage of the ground in all manner of husbandry, offering gifts unto the 
Lord with thanksgiving; for with the first-fruits of the earth did the Lord 
bless me, even as He blessed all the saints from Abel even until now. For no 
other portion is given to thee than of the fatness of the earth, whose fruits 
are raised by toil; for our father Jacob blessed me with blessings of the earth 
and of first-fruits. And Levi and Judah were glorified by the Lord among the 
sons of Jacob; for the Lord made choice of them, and to the one He gave the 
priesthood, to the other the kingdom. Them therefore obey, and walk in the 
simplicity of your father; for unto Gad hath it been given to destroy the 
temptations that are coming upon Israel.
6. I know, my children, that in the last times your sons will forsake 
simplicity, and will cleave unto avarice, and leaving guilelessness will draw 
near to malice, and forsaking the commandments of the Lord will cleave unto 
Beliar, and leaving husbandry will follow after their wicked devices, and shall 
be dispersed among the Gentiles, and shall serve their enemies. And do you 
therefore command these things to your children, that if they sin they may the 
more quickly return to the Lord; for He is merciful, and will deliver them even 
to bring them back into their land.
7. I am a hundred and twenty-two years old, and I know not against myself a 
sin unto death. Except my wife, I have not known any woman. I never committed 
fornication in the haughtiness of my eyes; I drank not wine, to be led astray 
thereby; I coveted not any desirable thing that was my neighbour's; guile never 
entered in my heart; a lie never passed through my lips; if any man grieved, I 
wept with him, and I shared my bread with the poor. I never ate alone; I moved 
no landmark; in all my days I wrought godliness and truth. I loved the Lord with 
all my strength; likewise also did I love every man even as my own children. So 
ye also do these things, my children, and every spirit of Beliar shall flee from 
you, and no deed of malicious men shall rule over you; and every wild beast 
shall ye subdue, having with yourselves the God of heaven walking with men in 
simplicity of heart.
And he commanded them that they should carry him up to Hebron, and bury him 
there in the cave with his fathers. And he stretched out his feet and died, the 
fifth son of Jacob, in a good old age; and with every limb sound, and with 
strength unabated, he slept the eternal sleep.


VI.-The Testament of 
Zebulun Concerning Compassion and Mercy.
------------
1. The record of Zebulun, which he enjoined his children in the 
hundred
and fourteenth year of his life, thirty-two years after the death of Joseph. And 
he said to them: Hearken to me sons of Zebulun, attend to the words of your 
father. I am Zebulun, a good gift
to my parents. For when I was born our father was increased very exceedingly, 
both in flocks and herds, when with the streaked rods he had his portion. I know 
not, my children, that in all my days I have sinned, save only in thought. Nor 
do I remember that I have done any iniquity, except the sin of ignorance which I 
committed against Joseph; for I screened my brethren, not telling to my father 
what had been done. And I wept sore in secret, for I feared my brethren, because 
they had all agreed together, that if any one should declare the secret, he 
should be slain with the sword. But when they wished to kill him, I adjured them 
much with tears not to be guilty of this iniquity.
2. For Simeon and Gad came against Joseph to kill him. And Joseph fell upon 
his face, and said unto them, Pity me, my brethren, have compassion upon the 
bowels of Jacob our father lay not upon me your hands to shed innocent blood, 
for I have not sinned against you; yea, if I have sinned, with chastening 
chastise me, but lay not upon me your hand, for the sake of Jacob our father. 
And as he spoke these words, I pitied him and began to weep, and my heart melted 
within me, and all the substance of my bowels was loosened within my soul. And 
Joseph also wept, and I too wept with him; and my heart throbbed fast, and the 
joints of my body trembled, and I was not able to stand. And when he saw me 
weeping with him, and them coming against him to slay him, he fled behind me, 
beseeching them. And Reuben rose and said, My brethren, let us not slay him, but 
let us cast him into one of these dry pits which our fathers digged and found no 
water. For for this cause the Lord forbade that water should rise up in them, in 
order that Joseph might be preserved; and the Lord appointed it so, until they 
sold him to the Ishmaelites.
3. For in the price of Joseph, my children, I had no share; but Simeon and 
Gad and six other of our brethren took the price of Joseph, and bought 
sandals
for themselves, their wives, and their children, saying, We will not eat of it, 
for it is the price of our brother's blood, but will tread it down under foot, 
because he said that he was king over us, and so let us see what his dreams 
mean. Therefore is it written in the writing of the law of Enoch, that whosoever 
will not raise up seed to his brother, his sandal shall be unloosed, and they 
shall spit into his face.
And the brethren of Joseph wished not that their brother should live, and the 
Lord loosed unto them the sandal of Joseph. For when they came into Egypt they 
were unloosed by the servants of Joseph before the gate, and so made obeisance 
to Joseph after the fashion of Pharaoh. And not only did they make obeisance to 
him, but were spit upon also, falling down before him forthwith, and so they 
were put to shame before the Egyptians; for after this the Egyptians heard all 
the evils which we had done to Joseph.
4. After these things they brought forth food; for I through two days and two 
nights tasted nothing, through pity for Joseph. And Judah ate not with them, but 
watched the pit; for he feared lest Simeon and Gad should run back and slay him. 
And when they saw that I also ate not, they set me to watch him until he was 
sold. And he remained in the pit three days and three nights, and so was sold 
famishing. And when Reuben heard that while he was away Joseph had been sold, he 
rent his clothes about him, and mourned, saying, How shall I look in the face of 
Jacob my father? And he took the money, and ran after the merchants, and found 
no one; for they had left the main road, and journeyed hastily through rugged 
byways. 
And Reuben ate no food on that day, Dan therefore came to him, and said, Weep 
not, neither grieve for I have found what we can say to our father Jacob. Let us 
slay a kid of the goats, and dip in it the coat of Joseph; and we will say, 
Look, if this is the coat of thy son: for they stripped off from Joseph the coat 
of our father when they were about to sell him, and put upon him an old garment 
of a slave. Now Simeon had the coat, and would not give it up, wishing to rend 
it with his sword; for he was angry that Joseph lived, and that he had not slain 
him. Them we all rose up together against him, and said, If thou give it not up, 
we will say that thou alone didst this wickedness in Israel; and so he gave it 
up, and they did even as Dan had said.
5. And now, my children, I bid you to keep the commands of the Lord, and to 
show mercy upon your neighbour, and to have compassion towards all, not towards 
men only, but also towards beasts. For for this thing's sake the Lord blessed 
me; and when all my brethren were sick I escaped without sickness, for the Lord 
knoweth the purposes of each. Have therefore compassion in your hearts, my 
children, because even as a man doeth to his neighbour, even so also will the 
Lord do to him. For the sons of my brethren were sickening, were dying on 
account of Joseph, because they showed not mercy in their hearts; but my sons 
were preserved without sickness, as ye know. And when I was in Canaan, by the 
sea-coast, I caught spoil of fish for Jacob my father; and when many were choked 
in the sea, I abode unhurt.
6. I was the first who made a boat to sail upon the sea, for the Lord gave me 
understanding and wisdom therein; and I let down a rudder behind it, and I 
stretched a sail on an upright mast in the midst; and sailing therein along the 
shores, I caught fish for the house of my father until we went into Egypt; and 
through compassion, I gave of my fish to every stranger. And if any man were a 
stranger, or sick, or aged, I boiled the fish and dressed them well, and offered 
them to all men as every man had need, bringing them together and having 
compassion upon them. Wherefore also the Lord granted me to take much fish: for 
he that imparteth unto his neighbour, receiveth manifold more from the Lord. For 
five years I caught fish, and gave thereof to every man whom I saw, and brought 
sufficient for all the house of my father. In the summer I caught fish, and in 
the winter I kept sheep with my brethren.
7. Now I will declare unto you what I did, I saw a man in distress and 
nakedness in wintertime, and had compassion upon him, and stole away
a garment secretly from my house, and gave it to him who was in distress. Do you 
therefore, my children, from that which God bestoweth upon you, show compassion 
and mercy impartially to all men, and give to every man with a good heart. And 
if ye have not at the time wherewith to give to him that asketh you, have 
compassion for him in bowels of mercy. I know that my hand found not at the time 
wherewith to give to him that asked me, and I walked with him weeping for more 
than seven furlongs, and my bowels yearned towards him unto compassion.
8. Have therefore yourselves also, my children, compassion towards every man 
with mercy, that the Lord also may have compassion upon you, and have mercy upon 
you; because also in the last days God sendeth His compassion on the earth, and 
wheresoever He findeth bowels of mercy, He dwelleth in him. For how much 
compassion a man hath upon his neighbours, so much also hath the Lord upon him. 
For when we went down into Egypt, Joseph bore no malice against us, and when he 
saw me he was filled with compassion. And looking towards him, do ye also, my 
children, approve yourselves without malice, and love one another; and reckon 
not each one the evil of his brother, for this breaketh unity, and divideth all 
kindred, and troubleth the soul: for he who beareth malice hath not bowels of 
mercy.
9. Mark the waters, that they flow together, and sweep along stones, trees, 
sand; but if they are divided into many streams, the earth sucketh them up, and 
they become of no account. So also shall ye be if ye be divided. Divide not 
yourselves into two heads, for everything which the Lord made hath but one head; 
He gave two shoulders, hands, feet, but all the members are subject unto the one 
head. I have learnt by the writing of my fathers, that in the last days ye will 
depart from the Lord, and be divided in Israel, and ye will follow two kings, 
and will work every abomination, and every idol will ye worship, and your 
enemies shall lead you captive, and ye shall dwell among the nations with all 
infirmities and tribulations and anguish of soul. And after these things ye will 
remember the Lord, and will repent, and He will lead you back; for He is 
merciful and full of compassion, not imputing evil to the sons of men, because 
they are flesh, and the spirits of error deceive them in all their doings, And 
after these things shall the Lord Himself arise to you,
the Light of righteousness, and healing
and compassion shall be upon His wings. He shall redeem all captivity of the 
sons of men from Beliar, and every spirit of error shall be trodden down. And He 
shall bring back all the nations to zeal for Him, and ye shall see God in the 
fashion of a man 
whom the Lord shall choose, Jerusalem is His name. And again with the wickedness 
of your words will ye provoke Him to anger, and ye shall be cast away, even unto 
the time of consummation.
10. And now, my children, grieve not that I am dying, nor be troubled in that 
I am passing away from you. For I shall arise once more in the midst of you, as 
a ruler in the midst of his sons; and I will rejoice in the midst of my tribe, 
as many as have kept the law of the Lord, and the commandments of Zebulun their 
father.
But upon the ungodly shall the Lord bring everlasting fire, and will destroy 
them throughout all generations. I am hastening away unto my rest, as did my 
fathers; but do ye fear the Lord your God with all your strength all the days of 
your life. And when he had said these things he fell calmly asleep, and his sons 
laid him in a coffin; and afterwards they carried him up to Hebron, and buried 
him with his fathers.

VII.-The Testament of Dan 
Concerning Anger and Lying.
------------
1. The record of the words of Dan, which he spake to his sons in his last 
days. In the hundred and twenty-fifth year of his life he called together his 
family, and said: Hearken to my words, ye sons of Dan; give heed to the words of 
the mouth of your father. I have proved in my heart, and in my whole life, that 
truth with just dealing is good and well-pleasing to God, and that lying and 
anger are evil, because they teach man all wickedness. I confess this day to 
you, my children, that in my heart I rejoiced concerning the death of Joseph, a 
true and good man; and I rejoiced at the selling of Joseph, because his father 
loved him more than us. For the spirit of jealousy and of vainglory said to me, 
Thou also art his son. And one of the spirits of Beliar wrought with me, saying, 
Take this sword, and with it slay Joseph; so shall thy father love thee when he 
is slain. This is the spirit of anger that counselled me, that even as a leopard 
devoureth a kid, so should I devour Joseph. But the God of Jacob our father gave 
him not over into my hands that I should find him alone, nor suffered me to work 
this iniquity, that two tribes should be destroyed in Israel.

2. And now, my children, I am dying, and I tell you of a truth, that unless 
ye keep yourselves from the spirit of lying and of anger, and love truth and 
long-suffering, ye shall perish. There is blindness in anger, my children, and 
no wrathful man regardeth any, person with truth: for though it be a father or a 
mother, he behaveth towards them as enemies; though it be a brother, he knoweth 
him not; though it be a prophet of the Lord, he disobeyeth him; though a 
righteous man, he regardeth him not; a friend he doth not acknowledge. For the 
spirit of anger encompasseth him with the nets of deceit, and blindeth his 
natural eyes, and through lying darkeneth his mind, and giveth him a sight of 
his own making. And wherewith encompasseth he his eyes? In hatred of heart; and 
he giveth him a heart of his own against his brother unto envy.
3. My children, mischievous is anger, for it becometh as a soul to the soul 
itself; and the body of the angry man it maketh its own, and over his soul it 
getteth the mastery, and it bestoweth upon the body its own power, that it may 
work all iniquity; and whenever the soul doeth aught, it justifieth what has 
been done, since it seeth not. Therefore he who is wrathful, if he be a mighty 
man, hath a treble might in his anger; one by the might and aid of his servants, 
and a second by his wrath, whereby he persuadeth and overcometh in injustice: 
and having a third of the nature of his own body, and of his own self working 
the evil. And though the wrathful man be weak, yet hath he a might twofold of 
that which is by nature; for wrath ever aideth such in mischief. This spirit 
goeth always with lying at the right hand of Satan, that his works may be 
wrought with cruelty and lying.
4. Understand ye therefore the might of wrath, that it is vain. For it first 
of all stingeth him in word: then by deeds it strengtheneth him who is angry, 
and with bitter punishments disturbeth his mind, and so stirreth up with great 
wrath his soul. Therefore, when any one speaketh against you, be not
ye moved unto anger, And if any man praiseth you as good, be not lifted up nor 
elated, either to the feeling or showing of pleasure.
For first it pleaseth the hearing, and so stirreth up the understanding to 
understand the grounds for anger; and then, being wrathful, he thinketh that he 
is justly angry. If ye fall into any loss or ruin, my children, be hot troubled; 
for this very spirit maketh men desire that which hath perished, in order that 
they may he inflamed by the desire. If ye suffer loss willingly, be not vexed, 
for from vexation he raiseth up wrath with lying. And wrath with lying is a 
twofold mischief;
and they speak one with another that they may disturb the mind; and when the 
soul is continually, disturbed, the Lord departeth from it, and Beliar ruleth 
over it.
5. Observe, therefore, my children, the commandments of the Lord, and keep 
His law; and depart from wrath, and hate lying, that the Lord may dwell among 
you, and Beliar may flee from you. Speak truth each one with his neighbour, so 
shall ye not fall into lust and confusion; but ye shall be in peace, having the 
God of peace, so
shall no war prevail over yon. Love the Lord through all your life, unit one 
another with a true heart. For I know that in the last days ye will depart from 
the Lord, and will provoke Levi unto anger, and will fight against Judah; but ye 
shall not prevail against them. For an angel of the Lord shall guide them both; 
for by them shall Israel stand. And whensoever ye depart from the Lord, ye will 
walk in all evil, working the abominations of the Gentiles, going 
astray with women of them that are ungodly; and the spirits of error shall work 
in you with all malice. For I have read in the book of Enoch the righteous, that 
your prince is Satan, and that all the spirits of fornication and pride shall be 
subject unto Levi, to lay a snare for the sons of Levi, to came them to sin 
before the Lord. And my sons will draw near unto Levi, and sin with them in all 
things; and the sons of Judah will be covetous, plundering other men's goods 
like lions. Therefore shall ye be led away with them in captivity, and there 
shall ye receive all the plagues of Egypt, and all the malice of the Gentiles: 
and so, when ye return to the Lord, ye shall obtain mercy, and He shall bring 
you into His sanctuary, calling peace upon you; and there shall arise unto you 
from the tribe of Judah and of Levi the salvation of the Lord;
and He shall make war against Beliar, and He shall give the vengeance of victory 
to our coasts. And the captivity shall He take from Beliar, even the souls of 
the saints, and shall turn disobedient hearts unto the Lord, and shall give to 
them who call upon Him everlasting peace; and the saints shall rest in Eden, and 
the righteous shall rejoice in the new Jerusalem, which shall be unto the glory 
of God for ever and ever. And no longer shall Jerusalem endure desolation, nor 
Israel be led captive; for the Lord shall be in the midst of her, dwelling among 
men,
even the Holy One of Israel reigning over them 
in humility and in poverty;
and he who believeth on Him shall reign in truth in the heavens.
6. And now, my children, fear the Lord, and take heed unto yourselves of 
Satan and his spirits; and draw near unto God, and to the Angel
that intercedeth for you, for He is a Mediator between God and man for the peace 
of Israel. He shall stand up against the kingdom of the enemy; therefore is the 
enemy eager to destroy all that call upon the Lord. For he knoweth that in the 
day on which Israel shall believe,
the kingdom of the enemy shall be brought to an end; and the very angel of peace 
shall strengthen Israel, that it fall not into the extremity of evil. And it 
shall be in the time of the iniquity of Israel, that the Lord will depart from 
them, and will go after him that doeth His will, for unto none of His angels 
shall it be as unto him. And His name shall be in every place of Israel, and 
among the Gentiles-Saviour. Keep therefore yourselves, my children. from every 
evil work, and cast away wrath and all lying, and love truth and long-suffering; 
and the things which ye have heard from your father, do ye also impart to your 
children, that the Father of the Gentiles may receive you: for He is true and 
long-suffering, meek and lowly, and teacheth by His works the law of God. 
Depart, therefore, from all unrighteousness, and cleave unto, the righteousness 
of the law of the Lord: and bury me near my fathers.
7. And when he had said these things he kissed them, and slept the long 
sleep.
And his sons buried him, and after that they carried up his bones to the side of 
Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob. Nevertheless, as Dan had prophesied unto them 
that they should forget the law of their God, and should be alienated from the 
land of their inheritance, and from the race of Israel, and from their kindred, 
so also it came to pass. 

VIII.-The Testament of 
Naphtali Concerning Natural Goodness.
------------
1. The record of the testament of Naphtali, what things he ordained at the 
time of his death in the hundred and thirty-second year of his life. When his 
sons were gathered together in the seventh month, the fourth day of the month, 
he, being yet in good health, made them a feast and good cheer. And after he was 
awake in the morning, he said to them, I am dying; and they believed him not. 
And he blessed the Lord; and affirmed that after yesterday's feast he should 
die. He began then to say to his sons: Hear, my children; ye sons of Naphtali, 
hear the words of your father. I was born from Bilhah; and because Rachel dealt 
craftily, and gave Bilhah in place of herself to Jacob, and she bore me upon 
Rachel's lap, therefore was I called Naphtali.
And Rachel loved me because I was born upon her lap; and when I was of young and 
tender form, she was wont to kiss me, and say, Would that I might see a brother 
of thine from my own womb, like unto thee: whence also Joseph was like unto me 
in all things, according to the prayers of Rachel. Now my mother was Bilhah, 
daughter of Rotheus the brother of Deborah, Rebecca's nurse, and she was born on 
one and the self-same day with Rachel. And Rotheus was of the family of Abraham, 
a Chaldean, fearing God, free-born and noble; and he was taken captive, and was 
bought by Laban; and he gave him Aena his handmaid to wife, and she bore a 
daughter, and called her Zilpah, after the name of the village in which he had 
been taken captive. And next she bore Bilhah, saying, My daughter is eager after 
what is new, for immediately that she was born she was eager for the breast.
2. And since I was swift on my feet like a deer, my father Jacob appointed me 
for all errands and messages, and as a deer
did he give me his blessing. For as the potter knoweth the vessel, what it 
containeth, and bringeth clay thereto, so also doth the Lord make the body in 
accordance with the spirit, and according to the capacity of the body doth He 
implant the spirit, and the one is not deficient from the other by a third part 
of a hair; for by weight, and measure, and rule is every creature of the Most 
High.
And as the potter knoweth the use of each vessel, whereto it sufficeth, so also 
doth the Lord know the body, how far it is capable for goodness, and when it 
beginneth in evil; for there is no created thing and no thought which the Lord 
knoweth not, for He created every man after His own image. As man's strength, so 
also is his work; and as his mind, so also is his work; and as his purpose, so 
also is his doing; as his heart, so also is his mouth; as his eye, so also is 
his sleep; as his soul, so also is his word, either in the law of the Lord or in 
the law of Beliar. And as there is a division between light and darkness, 
between seeing and hearing, so also is there a division between man and man, and 
between woman and woman; neither is it to be said that there is any superiority 
in anything, either of the face or of other like things.
For God made all things good in their order, the five senses in the head, and He 
joineth on the neck to the head, the hair also for comeliness, the heart 
moreover for understanding, the belly for the dividing of the stomach, the 
calamus
for health, the liver for wrath, the gall for bitterness. the spleen for 
laughter, the reins for craftiness, the loins for power, the ribs for 
containing, the back for strength, and so forth. So then, my children, be ye 
orderly unto good things in the fear of God, and do nothing disorderly in scorn 
or out of its due season. For if thou bid the eye to hear, it cannot; so neither 
in darkness can ye do the works of light.
3. Be ye not therefore eager to corrupt your doings through excess, or with 
empty words to deceive your souls; because if ye keep silence in purity of 
heart, ye shall be able to hold fast the will of God, and to cast away the will 
of the devil. Sun and moon and stars change not their order; so also ye shall 
not change the law of God in the disorderliness of your doings. Nations went 
astray, and forsook the Lord, and changed their order, and followed stones and 
stocks, following after spirits of error. But ye shall not be so, my children, 
recognising in the firmament, in the earth, and in the sea, and in all created 
things, the Lord who made them all, that ye become not as Sodom, which changed 
the order of its nature. in like manner also the Watchers 
changed the order of their nature, whom also the Lord cursed at the flood, and 
for their sakes made desolate the earth, that it should be uninhabited and 
fruitless.
4. These things I say, my children, for I have read in the holy writing of 
Enoch that ye yourselves also will depart from the Lord, walking according to 
all wickedness of the Gentiles, and ye will do according to all the iniquity of 
Sodom. And the Lord will bring captivity upon you, and there shall ye serve your 
enemies, and ye shall be covered with all affliction and tribulation, until the 
Lord shall have consumed you all. And after that ye shall have been diminished 
and made few, ye will return and acknowledge the Lord your God; and He will 
bring you back into your own land, according to His abundant mercy. And it shall 
be, after that they shall come into the land of their fathers, they will again 
forget the Lord and deal wickedly; and the Lord shall scatter them upon the face 
of all the earth, until the compassion of the Lord shall come, a Man working 
righteousness and showing mercy unto all them that are afar off, and them that 
are near.
5. For in the fortieth year of my life, I saw in a vision that the sun 
and the moon were standing still on the Mount of Olives, at the east of 
Jerusalem. And behold Isaac, the father of my father, saith to us, Run and lay 
hold of them, each one according to his strength; and he that seizeth them, his 
shall be the sun and the moon. And we all of us ran together, and Levi laid hold 
of the sun, and Judah outstripped the others and seized the moon, and they were 
both of them lifted up with them. And when Levi became as a sun, a certain young 
man gave to him twelve branches of palm; and Judah was bright as the moon, and 
under his feet were twelve rays. And Levi and Judah ran, and laid hold each of 
the other. And, lo, a bull upon the earth, having two great horns, and an 
eagle's wings upon his back; and we wished to seize him, but could not. For 
Joseph outstripped us, and took him, and ascended up with him on high. And I 
saw, for I was there, and behold a holy writing appeared to us saying: 
Assyrians, Medes, Persians, Elamites, Gelachaeans, Chaldeans, Syrians, shall 
possess in captivity the twelve tribes of Israel.
6. And again, after seven months, I saw our father Jacob standing by the sea 
of Jamnia, and we his sons were with him. And, behold, there came a ship sailing 
by, full of dried flesh, without sailors or pilot: and there was written upon 
the ship, Jacob. And our father saith to us, Let us embark on our ship. And when 
we had gone on board, there arose a vehement storm, and a tempest of mighty 
wind; and our father, who was holding the helm, flew away from us. And we, being 
tost with the tempest, were borne along over the: sea; and the ship was filled 
with water and beaten about with a mighty wave, so that it was well-nigh broken 
in pieces. And Joseph fled away upon a little boat, and we all were divided upon 
twelve boards, and Levi and Judah were together. We therefore all were scattered 
even unto afar off. Then Levi, girt about with sackcloth, prayed for us all unto 
the Lord. And when the storm ceased, immediately the ship reached the land, as 
though in peace. And, lo, Jacob our father came, and we rejoiced with one 
accord.
7. These two dreams I told to my father; and he said to me, These things must 
be fulfilled in their season, after that Israel hath endured many things. Then 
my father saith unto me, I believe that Joseph liveth, for I see always that the 
Lord numbereth him with you. And he said, weeping, Thou livest, Joseph, my 
child, and I behold thee not, and thou seest not Jacob that begat thee. And he 
caused us also to weep at these words of his, and I burned in my heart to 
declare that he had been sold, but I feared my brethren.
8. Behold, my children, I have shown unto you the last times, that all shall 
come to pass in Israel. Do ye also therefore charge your children that they be 
united to Levi and to Judah. For through Judah shall salvation arise unto 
Israel, and in Him shall Jacob be blessed. For through his tribe shall God be 
seen dwelling among men on the earth, to save the race of Israel, and He shall 
gather together the righteous from the Gentiles. If ye work that which is good, 
my children, both men and angels will bless you; and God will be glorified 
through you among the Gentiles, and the devil will flee from you, and the wild 
beasts will fear you, and the angels will cleave to you. For as if a man rear up 
a child well, he hath a kindly remembrance thereof; so also for a good work 
there is a good remembrance with God. But him who doeth not that which is good, 
men and angels shall curse and God will be dishonoured among the heathen through 
him, and the devil maketh him his own as his peculiar instrument, and every wild 
beast shall master him, and the Lord will hate him. For the commandments of the 
law are twofold, and through prudence must they be fulfilled. For there is a 
season for a man to embrace his wife, and a season to abstain therefrom
for his prayer. So then there are two commandments; and unless they be done in 
due order, they bring about sin. So also is it with the other commandments. Be 
ye therefore wise in God, and prudent, understanding the order of the 
commandments. and the laws of every work, that the Lord may love you.
9. And when he had charged them with many such words, he exhorted them that 
they should remove his bones to Hebron, and should bury him with his fathers. 
And when he had eaten and drunken with a merry heart, he covered his face and 
died. And his sons did according to all things whatsoever Napthtali their father 
had charged them. 
IX.-The Testament of Gad 
Concerning Hatred.
------------
1. The record of the testament of Gad, what things he spake unto his sons, in 
the hundred and twenty-seventh year of his life, saying: I was the seventh son 
born to Jacob, and I was valiant in keeping the flocks. I guarded at night the 
flock; and whenever the lion came, or wolf, or leopard, or bear, or any wild 
beast against the fold, I pursued it, and with my hand seizing its foot, and 
whirling it round, I stunned it, and hurled it over two furlongs, and so killed 
it. Now Joseph was feeding the flock with us for about thirty days, and being 
tender, he fell sick by reason of the heat. And he returned to Hebron to his 
father, who made him lie down near him, because he loved him. And Joseph told 
our father that the sons of Zilpah and Bilhah were slaying the best of the 
beasts,
and devouring them without the knowledge of Judah and Reuben. For he saw that I 
delivered a lamb out of the mouth of the bear, and I put the bear to death; and 
the lamb I slew, being grieved concerning it that it could not live, and we ate 
it, and he told our father. And I was wroth with Joseph for that thing until the 
day that he was sold into Egypt. And the spirit of hatred was in me, and I 
wished not either to see Joseph or to hear him. And he rebuked us to our faces 
for having eaten of the flock without Judah. And whatsoever things he told our 
father, he believed him.
2. I confess now my sin, my children, that oftentimes I wished to kill him, 
because I hated him to the death, and there were in no wise in me bowels of 
mercy towards him. Moreover, I hated him yet more because of his dreams; and I 
would have devoured him out of the land of the living, even as a calf devoureth 
the grass from the earth. Therefore I and Judah sold him to the Ishmaelites for 
thirty
pieces of gold, and ten of them we hid, and showed the twenty to our brethren: 
and so through my covetousness I was fully bent on his destruction. And the God 
of my fathers delivered him from my hands, that I should not work iniquity in 
Israel.
3. And now, my children, hearken to the words of truth to work righteousness, 
and all the law of the Most High, and not go astray through the spirit of 
hatred, for it is evil in all the doings of men. Whatsoever a man doeth, that 
doth the hater abhor: though he worketh the law of the Lord, he praiseth him 
not; though he feareth the Lord, and taketh pleasure in that which is righteous, 
he loveth him not: he dispraiseth the truth, he envieth him that ordereth his 
way aright, he delighteth in evil-speaking, he loveth arrogance, for hatred hath 
blinded his soul; even as I also looked on Joseph.
4. Take heed therefore, my children, of hatred; for it worketh iniquity 
against the Lord Himself: for it will not hear the words of His commandments 
concerning the loving of one's neighbour, and it sinneth against God. For if a 
brother stumble, immediately it wisheth to proclaim it to all men, and is urgent 
that he should be judged for it, and be punished and slain. And if it be a 
servant, it accuseth him to his master, and with all affliction it deviseth 
against him, if it be possible to slay him. For hatred worketh in envy, and it 
ever sickeneth with envy against them that prosper in well-doing, when it seeth 
or heareth thereof. For as love would even restore to life the dead, and would 
call back them that are condemned to die, so hatred would slay the living, and 
those that have offended in a small matter it would not suffer to live. For the 
spirit of hatred worketh together with Satan through hastiness
of spirit in all things unto men's death; but the spirit of love worketh 
together with the law of God in long-suffering unto the salvation of men.

5. Hatred is evil, because it continually abideth with lying, speaking 
against the truth; and it maketh small things to be great, and giveth heed to 
darkness as to light, and calleth the sweet bitter, and teacheth slander, and 
war, and violence, and every excess of evil; and it filleth the heart with 
devilish poison. And these things I say to you from experience, my children, 
that ye may flee hatred, and cleave to the love of the Lord. Righteousness 
casteth out hatred, humility destroyeth hatred. For he that is just and humble 
is ashamed to do wrong, being reproved not of another, but of his own heart, 
because the Lord vieweth his intent: he speaketh not against any man, because 
the fear of the Most High overcometh hatred. For, fearing lest he should offend 
the Lord, he will not do any wrong to any man, no, not even in thought. These 
things I learnt at last, after that I had repented concerning Joseph. For true 
repentance after a godly sort destroyeth unbelief, and driveth away the 
darkness, and enlighteneth the eyes, and giveth knowledge to the soul, and 
guideth the mind to salvation; and those things which it hath not learnt from 
man, it knoweth through repentance. For God brought upon me a disease of the 
heart; and had not the prayers of Jacob my father intervened, it had hardly 
failed that my spirit had departed. For by what things a man transgresseth, by 
the same also is he punished.
For in that my heart was set mercilessly against Joseph, in my heart too I 
suffered mercilessly, and was judged for eleven months, for so long a thee as I 
had been envious against Joseph until he was sold.
6. And now, my children, love ye each one his brother, and put away hatred 
from your hearts, loving one another in deed, and in word, and in thought of the 
soul. For in the presence of our father I spake peaceably with Joseph; and when 
I had gone out, the spirit of hatred darkened my mind, and moved my soul to slay 
him.
Love ye therefore one another from your hearts; and if a man sin against thee, 
tell him of it gently, and drive out the poison of hatred, and foster not guile 
in thy soul. And if he confess and repent, forgive him; and if he deny it, 
strive not with him, lest he swear, and thou sin doubly. Let not a stranger hear 
your secrets amid your striving, lest he hate and become thy enemy, and work 
great sin against thee; for ofttimes he will talk guilefully
with thee, or evilly overreach thee, taking his poison from himself. Therefore, 
if he deny it, and is convicted and put to shame, and is silenced, do not tempt 
him on. For he who denieth repenteth, so that he no more doeth wrong against 
thee; yea also, he will honour thee, and fear thee, and be at peace with thee. 
But if he be shameless, and abideth in his wrongdoing, even then forgive him 
from the heart, and give the vengeance to God.
7. If a man prospereth more than you, be not grieved, but pray also for him, 
that he may have perfect prosperity. For perchance it is expedient for you thus; 
and if he be further exalted, be not envious, remembering that all flesh shall 
die: and offer praise to God, who giveth things good and profitable to all men. 
Seek out the judgments of the Lord, and so shall thy mind rest and he at peace. 
And though a man become rich by evil means, even as Esau the brother of my 
father, be not jealous; but wait for the end of the Lord. For either He taketh 
His benefits away from the wicked, or leaveth them still to the repentant, or to 
the unrepentant reserveth punishment for ever. For the poor man who is free from 
envy, giving thanks to the Lord in all things, is rich among all men, because he 
hath not evil jealousy of men. Put away, therefore, hatred from your souls, and 
love one another with uprightness of heart.
8. And do ye also tell these things to your children, that they honour Judah 
and Levi, for from them shall the Lord raise up a Saviour to Israel.
For I know that at the last your children shall depart from them, and shall walk 
in all wickedness, and mischief, and corruption before the Lord. And when he had 
rested for a little while, he said again to them, My children, obey your father, 
and bury me near to my fathers. And he drew up his feet, and fell asleep in 
peace. And after five years they carried him up, and laid him in Hebron with his 
fathers.

X.-The Testament of Asher 
Concerning Two Faces of Vice and Virtue.
------------
1. The record of the testament of Asher, what things he spake to his sons in 
the hundred and twentieth year of his life. While he was still in health, he 
said to them: Hearken, ye children of Asher, to your father, and I will declare 
to you all that is right in the sight of God. Two ways
hath God given to the sons of men, and two minds, and two doings, and two 
places, and two ends. Therefore all things are by twos, one corresponding to the 
other. There are two ways of good and evil, with which are the two minds in our 
breasts distinguishing them. Therefore if the soul take pleasure in good, all 
its actions are in righteousness; and though it sin, it straightway repenteth. 
For, having his mind set upon righteousness, and casting away maliciousness, he 
straightway overthroweth the evil, and uprooteth the sin. But if his mind turn 
aside in evil, all his doings are in maliciousness, and he driveth away the 
good, and taketh unto him the evil, and is ruled by Beliar; and even though he 
work what is good, he perverteth it in evil. For whenever he beginneth as though 
to do good, he bringeth the end of his doing to work evil, seeing that the 
treasure of the devil is filled with the poison of an evil spirit.
2. There is then, he saith, a soul which speaketh the good for the sake of 
the evil, and the end of the doing leadeth to mischief.
There is a man who showeth no compassion upon him who serveth his turn in evil; 
and this thing hath two aspects, but the whole is evil, And there is a man that 
loveth him that worketh evil; he likewise dwelleth in evil, because he chooseth 
even to die in an evil cause for his sake: and concerning this it is clear that 
it hath two aspects, but the whole is an evil work. And though there is love, it 
is but wickedness concealing the evil, even as it beareth a name that seemeth 
good, but the end of the doing tendeth unto evil. Another stealeth, worketh 
unjustly, plundereth, defraudeth, and withal pitieth the poor: this, too, hath a 
twofold aspect, but the whole is evil. Defrauding his neighbour he provoketh 
God, and sweareth falsely against the Most High, and yet pitieth the poor: the 
Lord who commandeth the law he setteth at nought and provoketh, and refresheth 
the poor; he defileth the soul, and maketh gay the body; he killeth many, and he 
pitieth a few: and this, too, hath a twofold aspect. Another committeth adultery 
and fornication, and abstaineth from meats; yet in his fasting he worketh evil, 
and by his power and his wealth perverteth many, and out of his excessive 
wickedness worketh the commandments: this, too, hath a twofold aspect, but the 
whole is evil. Such men are as swine or hares;
for they are half clean, but in very deed are unclean. For God in the 
Heavenly
Tablets hath thus declared.
3. Do not ye therefore, my children, wear two faces like unto them, of 
goodness and of wickedness; but cleave unto goodness only, for in goodness doth 
God rest, and men desire it. From wickedness flee away, destroying the devil by 
your good works; for they that are double-faced serve not God, but their own 
lusts, so that they may please Beliar and men like unto themselves.
4. For good men, even they that are single of face, though they be thought by 
them that are double-faced to err, arc just before God. For many in killing the 
wicked do two works, an evil by a good; but the whole is good, because he hath 
uprooted and destroyed that which is evil. One man hateth him that showeth 
mercy, and doeth wrong to the adulterer and the thief: this, too, is 
double-faced, but the whole work is good, because he followeth the Lord's 
example, in that he receiveth not that which seemeth good with that which is 
really bad.
Another desireth not to see good days with them that riot, lest he defile his 
mouth and pollute his soul: this, too, is double-faced, but the whole is good, 
for such men are like to stags and to hinds, because in a wild condition they 
seem to be unclean, but they are altogether clean; because they walk in a zeal 
for God, and abstain from what God also hateth and forbiddeth by His 
commandments, and they ward off the evil from the good.
5. Ye see therefore, my children, how that there are two in all things, one 
against the other, and the one is hidden by the other.
Death succeedeth to life, dishonour to glory, night to day, and darkness to 
light; and all things are under the day, and just things trader life: wherefore 
also everlasting life awaiteth death. Nor may it be said that truth is a lie, 
nor right wrong; for all truth is under the light, even as all things are under 
God. All these things I proved in my life, and I wandered not from the truth of 
the Lord, and I searched out the commandments of the Most High, walking with 
singleness of face according to all my strength unto that which is good.
6. Take heed therefore ye also, my children, to the commandments of the Lord, 
following the truth with singleness of face, for they that are double-faced 
receive twofold punishment. Hate the spirits of error, which strive against men. 
Keep the law of the Lord, and give not heed unto evil as unto good; but look 
unto the thing that is good indeed, and keep it in all commandments of the Lord, 
having your conversation unto Him, and resting in Him: for the ends at which men 
aim do show their righteousness, and know the angels of the Lord from the angels 
of Satan. For if the soul depart troubled, it is tormented by the evil spirit 
which also it served in lusts and evil works; but if quietly and with joy it 
hath known the angel of peace, it shall comfort him in life.
7. Become not, my children, as Sodom, which knew not the angels of the Lord, 
and perished for ever, For I know that ye will sin, and ye shall be delivered 
into the hands of your enemies, and your land shall be made desolate, and ye 
shall be scattered unto the four corners of the earth. And ye shall be set at 
nought in the Dispersion as useless water, until the Most High shall visit the 
earth; and He shall come as man, with men eating and drinking, and in peace 
breaking the head of the dragon through water. He shall save Israel and all 
nations, God speaking in the person of man. Therefore tell ye these things to 
your children, that they disobey Him not. For I have read in the Heavenly 
Tablets that in very deed ye will disobey Him, and act ungodly against Him, not 
giving heed to the law of God, but to the commandments of men. Therefore shall 
ye be scattered as Gad and as Dan my brethren, who shall know not their own 
lands, tribe, and tongue. But the Lord will gather you together in faith through 
the hope of His tender mercy, for the sake of Abraham, and Isaac, and 
Jacob.

8. And when he had said these things unto them, he charged them, saying: Bury 
me in Hebron. And he fell into a peaceful sleep, and died; and after this his 
sons did as he had charged them, and they carried him up and buried him with his 
fathers.

XI.-The Testament of 
Joseph Concerning Sobriety.
------------
1. The record of the testament of Joseph. When he was about to die he called 
his sons and his brethren together, and said to them: My children and brethren, 
hearken to Joseph the beloved of Israel; give ear, my sons, unto your father. I 
have seen in my life envy and death, and I wandered not in the truth of the 
Lord. These my brethren hated me, and the Lord loved me: they wished to slay me, 
and the God of my fathers guarded me: they let me down into a pit, and the Most 
High brought me up again: I was sold for a slave, and the Lord made me free: I 
was taken into captivity, and His strong hand succoured me: I was kept in 
hunger, and the Lord Himself nourished me: I was alone, and God comforted me: I 
was sick, and the Most High visited me: I was in prison, and the Saviour showed 
favour unto me; in bonds, and He released me; amid slanders, and He pleaded my 
cause; amid bitter words of the Egyptians, and He rescued me; amid envy and 
guile, and He exalted me.
2. And thus Potipha
the chief cook 
of Pharaoh entrusted to me his house, and I struggled against a shameless woman, 
urging me to transgress with her; but the God of Israel my father guarded me 
from the burning flame. I was cast into prison, I was beaten, I was mocked; and 
the Lord granted me to find pity in the sight of the keeper of the prison. For 
He will in no wise forsake them that fear Him, neither in darkness, nor in 
bonds, nor in tribulations, nor in necessities. For not as man is God ashamed, 
nor as the son of man is He afraid, nor as one that is earth-born is He weak, or 
can He be thrust aside; but in all places is He at hand, and in divers ways doth 
He comfort, departing for a little to try the purpose of the soul. In ten 
temptations He showed me approved, and in all of them I endured; for endurance 
is a mighty charm, and patience giveth many good things.
3. How often did the Egyptian threaten me with death! How often did she give 
me over to punishment, and then call me back, and threaten me when I would not 
company with her! And she said to me, Thou shalt be lord of me, and all that is 
mine, if thou wilt give thyself unto me, and thou shall be as our master. 
Therefore I remembered the words of the fathers of my father Jacob, and I 
entered into my chamber
and prayed unto the Lord; and I fasted in those seven years, and I appeared to 
my master as one living delicately, for they that fast for God's sake receive 
beauty of face. 
And if one gave me wine, I drank it not; and I fasted for three days, and took 
my food and gave it to the poor and sick. And I sought the Lord early, and wept 
for the Egyptian woman of Memphis, for very unceasingly did she trouble me, and 
at night she came to me under the pretence of visiting me; and at first, because 
she had no male child, she feigned to count me as a son. And I prayed unto the 
Lord, and she bare a male child; therefore for a thee she embraced me as a son, 
and I knew it not. Last of all, she sought to draw me into fornication. And when 
I perceived it, I sorrowed even unto death; and when she had gone out I came to 
myself, and I lamented for her many days, because I saw her guile and her 
deceit. And I declared unto her the words of the Most High, if haply she would 
turn from her evil lust.
4. How often has she fawned upon me with words as a holy man, with guile in 
her talk, praising my chastity before her husband, while desiring to destroy me 
when we were alone. She lauded me openly as chaste, and in secret she said unto 
me, Fear not my husband; for he is persuaded concerning thy chastity, so that 
even should one tell him concerning us he would in no wise believe. For all 
these things I lay upon the ground in sackcloth, and I besought God that the 
Lord would deliver me from the Egyptian. And when she prevailed nothing, she 
came again to me under the plea of instruction, that she might know the word of 
the Lord. And she said unto me, If thou wiliest that I should leave my idols, be 
persuaded by me, and I will persuade my husband to depart from his idols, and we 
will walk in the law of thy Lord. And I said unto her, The Lord willeth not that 
those who reverence Him should be in uncleanness, nor doth He take pleasure in 
them that commit adultery. And she held her peace, longing to accomplish her 
evil desire. And I gave myself yet more to fasting and prayer, that the Lord 
should deliver me from her.
5. And again at another time she said unto me, If thou wilt not commit 
adultery, I will kill my husband, and so will I lawfully take thee to be my 
husband. I therefore, when I heard this, rent my garment, and said, Woman, 
reverence the Lord, and do not this evil deed, lest thou be utterly destroyed; 
for I will declare thy ungodly thought unto all men. She therefore, being 
afraid, besought that I would declare to no one her wickedness. And she 
departed, soothing me with gifts, and sending to me every delight of the sons of 
men.
6. And she sendeth to me food sprinkled with enchantments. And when the 
eunuch who brought it came, I looked up and beheld a terrible man giving me with 
the dish a sword, and I perceived that her scheme was for the deception of my 
soul. And when he had gone out I wept, nor did I taste that or any other of her 
food. So then after one day she came to me and observed the food, and said unto 
me, What is this; that thou hast not eaten of the food? And I said unto her, It 
is because thou filledst it with death; and how saidst thou, I come not near to 
idols but to the Lord alone? Now therefore know that the God of my father hath 
revealed unto me by an angel thy wickedness, and I have kept it to convict thee, 
if haply thou mayest see it and repent. But that thou mayest learn that the 
wickedness of the ungodly hath no power over them that reverence God in 
chastity, I took it and ate it before her, saying, The God of my fathers and the 
Angel of Abraham shall be with me. And she fell upon her face at my feet, and 
wept; and I raised her up and admonished her, and she promised to do this 
iniquity no more.
7. But because her heart was set upon me to commit lewdness, she sighed, and 
her countenance fell. And when her husband saw her, he said unto her, Why is thy 
countenance fallen? And she said, I have a pain at my heart, and the groanings 
of my spirit do oppress me; and so he comforted her who was not sick. Then she 
rushed in to me while her husband was yet without, and said unto me, I will hang 
myself, or cast myself into a well or over a cliff, if thou wilt not consent 
unto me. And when I saw the spirit of Beliar was troubling her, I prayed unto 
the Lord, and said unto her, Why art thou troubled and disturbed, blinded in 
sins? Remember that if thou killest thyself, Sethon, the concubine of thy 
husband, thy rival, will beat thy children, and will destroy thy memorial from 
off the earth. And she said unto me, Lo then thou lovest me; this alone is 
sufficient for me, that thou carest for my life and my children: I have 
expectation that I shall enjoy my desire. And she knew not that because of my 
God I spake thus, and not because of her. For if a man hath fallen before the 
passion of a wicked desire, then by that hath he become enslaved, even as also 
was she. And if he hear any good thing with regard to the passion whereby he is 
vanquished, he receiveth it unto his wicked desire.
8. I declare unto you, my children, that it was about the sixth hour when she 
departed from me; and I knelt before the Lord all that day, and continued all 
the night; and about dawn I rose up weeping, and praying for a release from the 
Egyptian. At last, then, she laid hold of my garments, forcibly dragging me to 
have connection with her. When, therefore, I saw that in her madness she was 
forcibly holding my garments, I fled away naked. And she falsely accused me to 
her husband, and the Egyptian cast me into the prison in his house; and on the 
morrow, having scourged me, the Egyptian 
sent me into the prison in his house. When, therefore, I was in fetters, the 
Egyptian woman fell sick from her vexation, and listened to me how I sang 
praises unto the Lord while I was in the abode of darkness, and with glad voice 
rejoiced and glorified my God only because by a pretext I had been rid of the 
Egyptian woman.
9. How often hath she sent unto me, saying, Consent to fulfil my desire, and 
I will release thee from thy bonds, and I will free time from the darkness! And 
not even in thoughts did I incline unto her. For God loveth him who in a den of 
darkness fasteth with chastity, rather than him who in secret chambers liveth 
delicately without restraint. And whosoever liveth in chastity, and desireth 
also glory, and if the Most High knoweth that it is expedient for him, He 
bestoweth this also upon him, even as upon me. How often, though she were sick, 
did she come down to me at unlooked-for times, and listened to my voice as I 
prayed! And when I heard her groanings I held my peace. For when I was in her 
house she was wont to bare her arms, and breasts, and legs, that I might fall 
before her; for she was very beautiful, splendidly adorned for my deception. And 
the Lord guarded me from her devices.

10. Ye see therefore, my children, how great things patience worketh, and 
prayer with fasting. And if ye therefore follow after sobriety and purity in 
patience and humility of heart, the Lord will dwell among you, because He loveth 
sobriety. And wheresoever the Most High dwelleth, even though a man fall into 
envy, or slavery, or slander, the Lord who dwelleth in him, for his sobriety's 
sake not only delivereth him from evil, but also exalteth and glorifieth him, 
even as me. For in every way the man is guarded, whether in deed, or in word, or 
in thought. My brethren know how my father loved me, and I was not exalted in my 
heart; although I was a child, I had the fear of God in my thoughts. For I knew 
that all things should pass away, and I kept myself within bounds, and I 
honoured my brethren; and through fear of them I held my peace when I was sold, 
and revealed not my family to the Ishmaelites, that I was the son of Jacob, a 
great man and a mighty.
11. Do ye also, therefore, have the fear of God in your works, and honour 
your brethren. For every one who worketh the law of the Lord shall be loved by 
Him. And when I came to the Indocolpitae with the Ishmaelites, they asked me, 
and I said that I was a slave from their house, that I might not put my brethren 
to shame. And the eldest of them said unto me, Thou art not a slave, for even 
thy appearance doth make it manifest concerning thee. And he threatened me even 
unto death. But I said that I was their slave. Now when we came into Egypt, they 
strove concerning me. which of them should buy me and take me. Therefore it 
secured good to all that I should remain in Egypt with a merchant of their 
trade, until they should return bringing merchandise. And the Lord gave me 
favour in the eyes of the merchant, and he entrusted unto me his house. And the 
Lord blessed him by my means, and increased him in silver and gold, and I was 
with him three months and five days.
12. About that time the Memphian wife of Potiphar passed by with great pomp, 
and cast her eyes upon me, because her eunuchs told her concerning me. And she 
told her husband concerning the merchant, that he had become rich by means of a 
young Hebrew, saying, And they say that men have indeed stolen him out of the 
land of Canaan. Now therefore execute judgment with him, and take away the youth 
to be thy steward; so shall the God of the Hebrews bless thee, for grace from 
heaven is upon him.
13. And Potiphar was persuaded by her words, and commanded the merchant to be 
brought, and said unto him, What is this that I hear, that thou stealest souls 
out of the land of the Hebrews, and sellest them for slaves? The merchant 
therefore fell upon his face, and besought him, saying, I beseech thee, my lord, 
I know not what thou sayest. And he said, Whence then is thy Hebrew servant? And 
he said, The Ishmaelites entrusted him to me until they should return. And he 
believed him not, but commanded him to be stripped and beaten. And when he 
persisted, Potiphar said, Let the youth be brought. And when I was brought in, I 
did obeisance to the chief of the eunuchs-for he was third in rank with Pharaoh, 
being chief of all the eunuchs, and having wives and children and concubines. 
And he took me apart from him, and said unto me, Art thou a slave or free? And I 
said, A slave. And he said unto me, Whose slave art thou? And I said unto him, 
The Ishmaelites' And again he said unto me, How becamest thou their slave? And I 
said, They bought me out of the land of Canaan. And he believed me not, and 
said, Thou liest: and he commanded me to be stripped and beaten.
14. Now the Memphian woman was looking through a window while I was being 
beaten, and she sent unto her husband, saying, Thy judgment is unjust; for thou 
dost even punish a free man who hath been stolen, as though he were a 
transgressor. And when I gave no other answer though I was beaten, he commanded 
that we should be kept in guard, until, said he, the owners of the boy shall 
come. And his wife said unto him, Wherefore dost thou detain in captivity this 
noble child, who ought rather to be set at liberty, and wait upon thee? For she 
wished to see me in desire of sin, and I was ignorant concerning all these 
things. Then said he to his wife, It is not the custom of the Egyptians to take 
away that which belongeth to others before proof is given. This he said 
concerning the merchant, and concerning me, that I must be imprisoned.
15. Now, after four and twenty days came the Ishmaelites; and having heard 
that Jacob my father was mourning because of me, they said unto me, How is it 
that thou saidst that thou wept a slave? and lo, we have learnt that thou art 
the son of a mighty man in the land of Canaan, and thy father grieveth for thee 
in sackcloth. And again I would have wept, but I restrained myself, that I 
should not put my brethren to shame. And I said, I know not, I am a slave. Then 
they take counsel to sell me, that I should not be found in their hands. For 
they feared Jacob, lest he should work upon them a deadly vengeance. For it had 
been heard that he was mighty with the Lord and with men. Then said the merchant 
unto them, Release me from the judgment of Potiphar. They therefore came and 
asked for me, saying, He was bought by us with money, And he sent us away.
16. Now the Memphian woman pointed me out to her husband, that he should buy 
me; for I hear, said she, that they are selling him. And she sent a eunuch to 
the Ishmaelites, and asked them to sell me; and since he was not willing to 
traffic with them, he returned. So when the eunuch had made trial of them, he 
made known to his mistress that they asked a large price for their slave. And 
she sent another eunuch, saying, Even though they demand two minae of gold, take 
heed not to spare the gold; only buy the boy, and bring him hither. And he gave 
them eighty pieces of gold for me, and told his mistress that a hundred had been 
given for me. And when I saw it I held my peace, that the eunuch should not be 
punished.
17. Ye see, my children, what great things I endured that I should not put my 
brethren to shame. Do ye also love one another, and with long-suffering hide ye 
one another's faults. For God delighteth in the unity of brethren, and in the 
purpose of a heart approved unto love. And when my brethren came into Egypt, and 
learnt that I returned their money unto them, and upbraided them not, yea, that 
I even comforted them, and after the death of Jacob I loved them more 
abundantly, and all things whatsoever he commanded I did very abundantly, then 
they marvelled. For I suffered them not to be afflicted even unto the smallest 
matter; and all that was in my hand I gave unto them. Their children were my 
children, and my children were as their servants; their life was my life, and 
all their suffering was my suffering, and all their sickness was my infirmity. 
My land was their land, my counsel their counsel, and I exalted not myself among 
them in arrogance because of my worldly glory, but I was among them as one of 
the least.
18. If ye also therefore walk in the commandments of the Lord, my children, 
He will exalt you there, and will bless you with good things for ever and ever. 
And if any one seeketh to do evil unto you, do ye by well-doing pray for him, 
and ye shall be redeemed of the Lord from all evil. For, behold, ye see that 
through long-suffering I took unto wife even the daughter of my
master. And a hundred talents of gold were given me with her; for the Lord made 
them to serve me. And He gave me also beauty as a flower above the beautiful 
ones of Israel; and He preserved me unto old age in strength and in beauty, 
because I was like in all things to Jacob.
19. Hear ye also, my children, the visions which I saw. There were twelve 
deer feeding, and the nine were divided and scattered in the land, likewise also 
the three. And I saw that from Judah was born a virgin wearing a linen 
garment, and from her went forth a Lamb, without spot, and on His left hand 
there was as it were a lion; and all the beasts rushed against Him, and the lamb 
overcame them, and destroyed them, and trod them under foot. And because of Him 
the angels rejoiced, and men, and all the earth. And these things shall take 
place in their season, in the last days. Do ye therefore, my children, observe 
the commandments of the Lord, and honour Judah and Levi; for from them shall 
arise unto you the Lamb of God, by grace saving all the Gentiles and Israel. For 
His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, which shall not be shaken; but my kingdom 
among yogi shall come to an end as a watcher's
hammock, which after the summer will not appear.
20. I know that after my death the Egyptians will afflict you, but God will 
undertake your cause, and will bring you into that which He promised to your 
fathers. But carry ye up my bones with you;
for when my bones are taken up, the Lord will be with you in light, and Beliar 
shall be in darkness with the Egyptians. And carry ye up Zilpah your mother, and 
lay her near Bilhah, by the hippodrome, by the side of Rachel. 
And when he had said these things, he stretched out his feet, and slept the long 
sleep. And all Israel bewailed him, and all Egypt, with a great lamentation. For 
he felt even for the Egyptians even as his own members, and showed them 
kindness, aiding them in every work, and counsel, and matter.

XII.-The Testament of 
Benjamin Concerning a Pure Mind.
------------
1. The record of the words of Benjamin, which he set forth to his sons, after 
he had lived a hundred and twenty years. And he kissed them, and said: As Isaac 
was born to Abraham in his hundredth year, so also was I to Jacob. Now since 
Rachel died in giving me birth, I had no milk; therefore I was suckled by Bilhah 
her handmaid. For Rachel remained barren for twelve years after that she had 
borne Joseph: and she prayed the Lord with fasting twelve days, and she 
conceived and bare me. For our father loved Rachel dearly, and prayed that he 
might see two sons born from her: therefore was I called the son of days, which 
is Benjamin.

2. When therefore I went into Egypt, and Joseph my brother recognised me, he 
said unto me, What did they tell my father in that they sold me? And I said unto 
him, They dabbled thy coat with blood and sent it, and said, Look if this is the 
coat of thy son. And he said to me, Even so, brother; for when the Ishmaelites 
took me, one of them stripped off my coat, and gave me a girdle, and scourged 
me, and bade me run. And as he went away to hide my garment, a lion met him, and 
slew him; and so his fellows were afraid, and sold me to their companions.
3. Do ye also therefore, my children, love the Lord God of heaven, and keep 
His commandments, and be followers of the good and holy man Joseph; and let your 
mind be unto good, even as ye know me. He that hath his mind good seeth all 
things rightly. Fear ye the Lord, and love your neighbour; and even though the 
spirits of Beliar allure you into all troublous wickedness, yet shall no 
troublous wickedness have dominion over you, even as it bad not over Joseph my 
brother. How many men wished to slay him, and God shielded him! For he that 
feareth God and loveth his neighbour cannot be smitten by Beliar's spirit of the 
air, being shielded by the fear of God; nor can he be ruled over by the device 
of men or of beasts, for he is aided by the love of the Lord which he hath 
towards his neighbour. For he even besought our father Jacob that he would pray 
for our brethren, that the Lord would not impute to them the evil that they 
devised concerning Joseph. And thus Jacob cried out, My child Joseph, thou hast 
prevailed over the bowels of thy father Jacob. And he embraced him, and kissed 
him for two hours, saying, In thee shall be fulfilled the prophecy of heaven 
concerning the Lamb of God, even the Saviour of the world, that spotless shall 
He be delivered up for transgressors, and sinless
shall He be put to death for ungodly men in the blood of the covenant, for the 
salvation 
of the Gentiles and of Israel, and shall destroy Beliar, and them that serve 
him.
4. Know ye, my children, the end of the good man? Be followers of his 
compassion in a good mind, that ye also may wear crowns of glory. The good man 
hath not a dark eye; for he showeth mercy to all men, even though they be 
sinners, even though they devise evil concerning him. So he that doeth good 
overcometh the evil, being shielded by Him that is good; and he loveth the 
righteous as his own soul. If any one is glorified, he envieth him not; if any 
one is enriched, he is not jealous; if any one is valiant, he praiseth him; he 
trusteth and laudeth him that is sober-minded; he showeth mercy to the poor; he 
is kindly disposed toward the weak; he singeth the praises of God; as for him 
who hath the fear of God, he protecteth him as with a shield; him that loveth 
God he aideth; him that rejecteth the Most High he admonisheth and turneth back; 
and him that hath the grace of a good spirit, he loveth even as his own 
soul.
5. If ye have a good mind, my children, then will both wicked men be at peace 
with you, and the profligate will reverence you and turn unto good; and the 
covetous shall not only cease from their inordinate desire, but shall even give 
the fruits of their covetousness to them that are afflicted. If ye do well, even 
the unclean spirits shall flee from you; yea, the very beasts shall flee from 
you in dread. For where the reverence for good works is present unto the mind, 
darkness fleeth away from him. For if any one is injurious to a holy man, he 
repenteth; for the holy man showeth pity on his reviler, and holdeth his peace. 
And if any one betray a righteous soul, and the righteous man, though praying, 
be humbled for a little while, yet not long after he appeareth far more 
glorious, even as was Joseph my brother.
6. The mind of the good man is not in the power of the deceit of the spirit 
of Beliar, for the angel of peace guideth his soul. He gazeth not passionately 
on corruptible things, nor gathereth together riches unto desire of pleasure; he 
delighteth not in pleasure, he hurteth not his neighbour, be pampereth not 
himself with food, he erreth not in the pride of his eyes, for the Lord is his 
portion. The good mind admitted not the glory and dishonour of men, neither 
knoweth it any guile or lie, fighting or reviling; for the Lord dwelleth in him 
and lighteth up his soul, and he rejoiceth towards all men at every time. The 
good mind hath not two tongues, of blessing and of cursing, of insult and of 
honour, of sorrow and of joy, of quietness and of trouble, of hypocrisy and of 
truth, of poverty and of wealth; but it hath one disposition, pure and 
un-corrupt, concerning all men. It hath no double sight, 
nor double hearing; for in everything which he doeth, or speaketh, or seeth, he 
knoweth that the Lord watcheth his soul, and he cleanseth his mind that he be 
not condemned by God and men. But of Beliar every work is twofold, and hath no 
singleness. 
7. Flee ye therefore, my children, the evil-doing of Beliar; for it giveth a 
sword to them that obeyeth, and the sword is the mother of seven evils. First 
the mind conceiveth through Beliar, and first there is envy; secondly, 
desperation; thirdly, tribulation; fourthly, captivity; fifthly, neediness; 
sixthly, trouble; seventhly, desolation. Therefore also Cain is delivered over 
to seven vengeances by God, for in every hundred years the Lord brought one 
plague upon him. Two hundred years he suffered, and in the nine hundredth year 
he was brought to desolation at the flood, for Abel his righteous brother's 
sake. In seven 
hundred years was Cain judged, and Lamech in seventy times seven; because for 
ever those who are likened unto Cain in envy unto hatred of brethren shall be 
judged with the same punishment.
8. Do ye also therefore, my children, flee ill-doing, envy, and hatred of 
brethren, and cleave to goodness and love. He that hath a pure mind in love, 
looketh not after a woman unto fornication; for he hath no defilement in his 
heart, because the Spirit of God resteth in him. For as the sun is not defiled 
by shining over dung and mire, but rather drieth up both and driveth away the 
ill smell: so also the pure mind, constrained among the defilements of the 
earth, rather edifieth, and itself suffereth no defilement.
9. Now I suppose, from the words of the righteous Enoch, that there will be 
also evil-doings among you: for ye will commit fornication with the fornication 
of Sodom, and shall perish all save a few, and will multiply inordinate lusts 
with women; and the kingdom of the Lord shall not be among you, for forthwith He 
will take it away. Nevertheless the temple of God shall be built in your 
portion, and shall be glorious among you. For He shall take it, and the twelve 
tribes shall be gathered together there, and all the Gentiles, until the Most 
High shall send forth His salvation in the visitation of His only-begotten one. 
And He shall enter into the front
of the temple, and there shall the Lord be treated with outrage, and He shall be 
lifted up upon a tree. And the veil of the temple shall be rent, and the Spirit 
of God shall descend upon the Gentiles as fire poured forth. And He shall arise 
from the grave, and shall ascend from earth into heaven: and I know how lowly He 
all be upon the earth, and how glorious in the heaven.
10. Now when Joseph was in Egypt, I longed to see his visage and the form of 
his countenance; and through the prayers of Jacob my father I saw him, while 
awake in the daytime, in his full and perfect shape. Know ye therefore, my 
children, that I am dying. Work therefore truth and righteousness each one with 
his neighbour, and judgment unto faithful doing, and keep the law of the Lord 
and His commandments; for these things do I teach you instead of all 
inheritance. Do ye also therefore give them to your children for an everlasting 
possession; for so did both Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob. All these things they 
gave us for an inheritance, saying, Keep the commandments of God until the Lord 
shall reveal His salvation to all nations. Then shall ye see Enoch, Noah, and 
Shem, and Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, arising on the right hand in gladness. 
Then shall we also arise, each one over our tribe, worshipping the King of 
heaven, who appeared upon the earth in the form of a man of humility. And as 
many as believed on Him on the earth shall rejoice with Him;
and then shall all men arise, some unto glory and some unto shame. And the Lord 
shall judge Israel first, even for the wrong they did unto Him; for when He 
appeared as a deliverer, God in the flesh, they believed Him not. And then shall 
He judge all the Gentiles, as many as believed Him not when He appeared upon 
earth. And He shall reprove Israel among the chosen ones of the Gentiles, even 
as He reproved Esau among the Midianites, who deceived their brethren, so that 
they fell into fornication and idolatry; and they were alienated from God, and 
became as they that were no children in the portion of them that fear the Lord. 
But if ye walk in holiness in the presence of the Lord, ye shall dwell in hope 
again in me, and all Israel shall be gathered unto the Lord.
11. And I shall no longer be called a ravening wolf
on account of your ravages, but a worker of the Lord, distributing food to them 
that work what is good. And one
shall rise up from my seed in the latter times, beloved of the Lord, hearing 
upon the earth His voice, enlightening with new knowledge all the Gentiles, 
bursting in upon Israel for salvation with the light of knowledge, and tearing 
it away from it like a wolf, and giving it to the synagogue of the Gentiles. And 
until the consummation of the ages shall he be in the synagogues of the 
Gentiles, and among their rulers, as a strain of music in the mouth of 
all;
and he shall be inscribed in the holy books, both his work and his word, and he 
shall be a chosen one of God for ever; and because of him my father Jacob 
instructed me, saying, He shall fill up that which lacketh of thy tribe. 
12. And when he finished his words, he said: I charge you, my children, carry 
up my bones out of Egypt, and bury me at Hebron, near my fathers. So Benjamin 
died a hundred and twenty-five years old, in a good old age, and they placed him 
in a coffin. And in the ninety-first year of the departure of the children of 
Israel from Egypt, they and their brethren brought up the bones of their fathers 
secretly in a place which is called Canaan; and they buried them in Hebron, by 
the feet of their fathers. And they returned from the land of Canaan, and dwelt 
in Egypt until the day of their departing from the land of Egypt.

