
The Passing of Peregrinus





Lucian of Samosata : THE
PASSING OF PEREGRINUS



An account of the life and death of a Cynic
philosopher who for a time in his early life went over to Christianity,
practicing it to the point of imprisonment under a very tolerant administration,
and after returning to Cynicism became in his old age so enamoured of Indic
ideas and precedents that he cremated himself at Olympia, just after the games
of A.D. 165, even as Calanus had done at Susa in the
presence of Alexander the Great and as Zarmarus had done at Athens, after
initiation into the mysteries, in the presence of Augustus.

Writing soon after the event, of which he was a
witness, Lucian makes his main theme the story of what went on at Olympia. The
earlier life of Peregrinus is portrayed incidentally in a speech attributed by
Lucian to someone whose name he did not know, but clearly made by Lucian himself.

Lucian believes himself to be exposing a sham,
whose zeal was not at all for truth but only for applause and renown. Many
notable modern critics, including Zeller, Bernays, Croiset, and Wilamowitz,
dissent from his interpretation, discerning in the man an earnest seeker after
truth; for to them thirst for glory is not an adequate explanation of his final
act. This point of view hardly embodies sufficient recognition of the driving
force of that motive with Greeks, and particularly Greeks of the second century
(Nock, Conversion, p. 201). Greek
writers recognised it as a possible explanation of the behaviour of Calanus and
of Zarmarus. In this case, Lucian not only knew the man but knew others who knew
him: for instance, Demonax. Assuredly, the interpretation that he gives is not
his alone. Perhaps it is not so far wrong after all. Certainly there are
authentic features in it, like the attempt of Proteus to get back the
inheritance he had previously renounced and bestowed upon his native city, which
make it impossible to see in him the “earnest and steadfast man” that Aulus
Gellius thought him.


A.M. HARMON










Best wishes from Lucian to Cronius.
1.    Unlucky
Peregrinus,1 or, as he delighted to style himself, Proteus,2 has done
        exactly what Proteus in Homer did.3 After turning into everything for the sake
of notoriety and achieving any number of transformations, here at last he has
turned into fire; so great, it seems, was the love of notoriety that possessed
him. And now your genial friend has got himself carbonified after the fashion
of Empedocles, except that the latter at least tried to escape observation
when he threw himself into the crater,4 while this gentleman waited for that
one of the Greek festivals which draws the greatest. crowds, heaped up a very
large pyre, and leaped into it before all those, witnesses; he even addressed
the Greeks on the subject not many days before his venture.
2.    I think I
can see you laughing heartily at the old man’s drivelling idiocy—-indeed, I
hear you give tongue as you, naturally would: "Oh, the stupidity! Oh, the
vainglory! Oh"—everything else that we are in the habit of saying about it
all. Well, you are doing this at a distance and ‘with far greater security, but
I said it right by the fire and even earlier in a great crowd of listeners,
angering some of them—as many as admired the old man’s fool-hardiness; but
there were others beside myself who laughed at him. However, I narrowly missed
getting torn limb from limb for you by the Cynics just as Actaeon was by his
dogs or his cousin Pentheus by the Maenads.
3.     The
complete mise en scène of the affair
was as follows. You know, of course, what the playwright was like and what
spectacular performances he presented his whole life long, outdoing Sophocles
and Aeschylus. As for my part in it, as soon as I came to Elis, in going up5
by way of the gymnasium I overheard a Cynic bawling out the usual
street-corner invocations to Virtue in a loud, harsh voice, and abusing
everyone without exception. Then his harangue wound up with Proteus, and to the
best of my
ability I shall try to quote for you the very words he said. You will find the
style familiar, of course, as you have often stood near them while they were
ranting.
4.     “Does
anyone dare,”, he said, “to call Proteus vainglorious, O Earth, O sun, O
rivers, O sea, O Heracles, god of Our fathers !—Proteus, who was imprisoned in
Syria, who renounced five thousand talents in favour of his native hand, who
was banished from the city of Rome, who is more conspicuous than the sun, who
is able to rival Olympian Zeus himself? Because he has resolved to depart from
life by way of fire, are there people who attribute this to vainglory?’ Why,
did not Heracles do so? Did not Asclepius and Dionysus,6 by grace of the
thunderbolt? Did not Empedocles end by leaping into the crater?” 
5.    When
Theagenes7 —for that was the bawler’s name—said that, I asked a
bystander, “What is the meaning of his talk about fire, and what have Heracles
and Empedocles to do with Proteus?” “Before long,” he replied, Proteus is going
to burn himself up at the Olympic festival.” “How,” said I, “and why?” Then he
undertook to tell me, but the Cynic was bawling, so that it was impossible to
hear anyone else. I listened, therefore, while he flooded us with the
rest of his bilge-water and got off a lot of amazing hyperbole about - Proteus,
for, not deigning to compare him with the man of Sinope,8 or his teacher
Antisthenes, or even with Socrates himself, he summoned Zeus to the lists.
Then, however, he decided to keep them about equal, and thus concluded his
speech: 
6.      “These are the two noblest masterpieces that the world has seen—the
Olympian Zeus, and Proteus; of the one, the creator and artist was Phidias, of
the other, Nature. But now this holy image is about to depart from among men to
gods, borne on the wings of fire, leaving us bereft.” After completing this
discourse with copious perspiration, he shed tears in a highly ridiculous way
and tore his hair, taking care not to pull very hard; and at length he was led
away, sobbing as he went, by some of the Cynics, who strove to comfort him.
7.    After him,
another man went up at once,9 not permitting the throng to
disperse, but pouring a libation on the previous sacrificial offerings while
they were still ablaze. At first he laughed a long time, and obviously did it
from the heart. Then he began somewhat after this fashion: “Since that accursed
Theagenes terminated his pestilential remarks with the tears of Heraclitus, I,
on the contrary, shall begin with the laughter of Democritus.” And again he
went on laughing a long time, so that he drew most
of us into doing likewise; Then, changing countenance, he said, 
8.     “Pray, what
else, gentlemen, are we to do when we hear utterances so ridiculous, and see
old men all but standing on their heads, in public for the sake of a little
despicable notoriety? That you may know what manner of thing is this ‘holy
image' which is about to be burned up, give me your ears, for I have observed
his character and kept an eye on his career from the beginning, and have
ascertained various particulars from his fellow-citizens and people who cannot
have helped knowing him thoroughly.
9.     “This
creation and masterpiece of nature, this Polyclitan canon,10 as soon as he came
of age, was taken in adultery in Armenia and got a sound thrashing, but finally
jumped down from the roof and made his escape, with a radish stopping his vent.
Then he corrupted a handsome boy, and by paying three thousand drachmas to the
boy’s parents, who were poor, bought himself off from being brought before the
governor of the province of Asia.
10.    “All this
and the like of it I propose to pass over; for he was still unshapen clay, and
our ‘holy image’ had not yet been consummated for us. What he did to his
father, however, is very well worth hearing; but you all know it—you have heard
how he strangled the aged man, unable to tolerate his living beyond sixty
years. Then, when the affair had been noised abroad, he condemned himself to
exile and roamed about, going to one country after another.

11.    “It was
then that he learned the wondrous lore of the Christians, by associating with
their priests and scribes in Palestine.   And—how else could it be?—in
a trice he made them all look like children,
for he was prophet, cult-leader, head of the synagogue, and everything, all by
himself. He inter preted and explained some of their books and even composed
many, and they revered him as a god, made use of him as a lawgiver, and set him
down as a protector, next after that other, to be sure, whom11 they still
worship, the man who was crucified in Palestine because he introduced this new
cult into the world.
12.    "Then at length Proteus was apprehended
for this and thrown into prison, which itself gave him no little reputation as
an asset for his future career and the charlatanism and notoriety-seeking that
he was enamoured of. Well, when he had been imprisoned, the Christians,
regarding the incident as a calamity, left nothing undone in the effort to
rescue him Then, as this was impossible, every other form of attention was
shown him, not in any casual way but with assiduity, and from the very break of
day aged widows and orphan children could be seen waiting near the prison,
while their officials even slept inside with him after bribing the guards. Then
elaborate meals were brought in, and sacred books of theirs were read aloud,
and excellent Peregrinus—for he still went by that name—was called by them 'the
new Socrates.'



13.   “Indeed,
people came even from the cities in Asia, sent by the Christians at their
common expense, to succour and defend and encourage the hero. They show
incredible speed whenever any such public action is taken; for in no time they
lavish their all.  So it was
then in the case of Peregrinus; much money came to him from them by reason of
his imprisonment, and he procured not a little revenue from it. The poor
wretches have convinced themselves, first and foremost, that they are going to
be immortal and live for all time, in consequence of which they despise death
and even willingly give themselves into custody; most of them. Furthermore,
their first lawgiver12 persuaded them that they are all brothers of one another
after they have transgressed once, for all by denying the Greek gods and by
worshipping that crucified sophist himself and living under his laws. Therefore
they despise all things indiscriminately and consider them common property,
receiving such doctrines traditionally without any definite evidence. So if
any charlatan and trickster, able to profit by occasions, comes among them, he
quickly acquires sudden wealth by imposing upon simple folk.


14.    “However,
Peregrinus was freed by the then governor of Syria, a man who was fond of
philosophy.13 Aware of his recklessness and that he would
gladly die in order that he might leave behind him a reputation for it, he
freed him, not consider ing him worthy even of the usual chastisement.14
Upon returning to his home, he found that the matter of his father’s murder was
still at fever heat and that there were many who were for pressing the charge.
against him. Most of his possessions had been carried off during his absence,
and only his farms remained, amounting to fifteen talents; for the entire
property which the old man left had been worth perhaps thirty talents, not
five thousand as that utterly ridiculous Theagenes asserted. Even the entire
city of Parium,15 taking along with it the five that are its neighbours, would
not fetch that much, including the men, the cattle, and all the rest of their
belongings.
15.    “However,
the charge and complaint was still aglow, and it was probable that before long
somebody would appear. against him; above all,  the people themselves were
enraged, mourning over a good old man (as he was called by those who had seen
him) so impiously slain. But observe what a plan our clever Proteus discovered
to cope with all this, and, how he escaped the danger. Coming before the
assembly of the Parians—he wore his hair long by now, dressed in a dirty mantle,
had a wallet slung at ‘his side, the staff was in his hand, and in general he
was very histrionic in his get-up—manifesting himself to them in this guise, he
said that he relinquished to the state all
the property which had been left him by his father of blessed memory. When the
people, poor folk agape for largesses, heard that, they lifted their voices
forthwith: ‘The one and only philosopher! The one and only patriot! The one and
only rival of Diogenes and Crates!’ His enemies were muzzled, and anyone who
tried to mention the murder was at once pelted with stones.


16.    “He left
home, then, for the second time, to roam about, possessing an ample source of
funds in the Christians, through whose ministrations he lived in unalloyed
prosperity. For a time he battened himself thus; but then, after he had
transgressed in some way even against them—he was seen, I think, eating some of
the food that is forbidden them,16 they no
longer accepted him, and so, being at a loss, he thought he must sing a
palinode and demand his possessions back from his city. Submitting a petition,
he expected to recover them by order of the Emperor. Then, as the city sent
representatives to oppose the claim, he achieved nothing, but was directed to
abide by what he had once for all determined, under no compulsion from anyone.17.   
“Thereafter
he went away a third time, to Egypt, to visit Agathobulus,17 where he took that
wonderful course of training in asceticism, shaving one half of his head,
daubing his face with mud, and demonstrating what they call 'indifference' by
erecting his yard amid a
thronging mob of bystanders,18 besides giving and, taking blows on the
back-sides with a stalk of fennel, and playing the mountebank even more
audaciously in many other ways.
18.    “From
there, thus equipped, he set sail for Italy and immediately after disembarking
he fell to abusing. everyone, and in particular the Emperor,19 knowing
him to be mild and gentle, so that he was safe in making bold. The Emperor, as
one would expect, cared little for his libels and did not think fit to punish
for mere words a man who only used philosophy as a cloak, and above all, a man
who had made a profession of abusiveness. But in our friend’s case, even from
this his reputation grew, among simple folk any how, and he was a cynosure for
his recklessness, until finally the
city prefect, a wise man, packed him off for immoderate indulgence in the
thing, saying that the city had no need of any such philosopher. However, this
too made for his renown, and he was on everybody’s lips as the philosopher who
had been banished for his frankness and excessive freedom, so that in this
respect he approached Musonius, Dio, Epictetus, and anyone else who has been in
a similar predicament.
19.    “Coming at
last to Greece under these circum­stances, at one moment he abused the Eleans,
at another he counselled the Greeks to take up arms against the Romans,20 and at
another he libelled a man outstanding in literary attainments and position
because he had been a benefactor to Greece in many ways, and
particularly because he had brought water to Olympia and prevented the visitors
to the festival from dying of thirst, maintaining that he was making the Greeks
effeminate, for the spectators of the Olympic games ought to endure their
thirst—yes, by Heaven, and even to lose their lives, no doubt, many of them,
through the frequent distempers which formerly ran riot in the vast crowd on
account of the dryness of the place! 21 And he said this while he drank
that same water!

 



1.  The greeting marks Cronius as a Platonist. 
2.  Cf. Aulus Gellius, XII, 11: philosophum nomine Peregrinum, cui
postea cognomentum Proteus factum est, virum gravem et constantem, etc. 
Lucian calls him Peregrinus Proteus in Demonax, 21 (I., p.156), but
simply Proteus the Cynic in adu. Indoct., 14 (III, p.192), and he is
Proteus to the
Philostrati (of. Vit. Sophi II, 1, 33
and for the elder Philostratus the title of his lost work Proteus the Cynic; or, the
Sophist),  to Tatian (Orat. ad Graecos, 25), and to Athena goras (Legat. de Christian., 26). The name Peregrinus is used in Aulus
Gellius, VIII, 3, Ammianus Marcellinus, XXIX, 1, 39, Tertullian ad Martyres, 4,
and Eusebius, Chron., Vol. II, p. 170, Schöne. From the passage in Gellius cited above we can
infer only that he did not hear the sobriquet Proteus when he was in Athens.
The manner of its employment by Lucian is sufficient evidence that it did not
origmate with Lucian or after the death of Peregrinus. It was probably applied
to him towards the close of his career. That it bears a sense very like
what Lucian attributes to it is clear from Maximus of Tyre, VIII, 1. In § 27
Lucian professes to have heard that he wanted to change it to Phoenix after
his decision to immolate himself.
3. The
transformations of the sea-god in his effort to escape from Menelaus, who
wanted to consult him, are told in the Odyssey,
IV, 454-459.
4.  Of Aetna; it was said that the manner of his
death remained unknown until the mountain cast up one of his golden sandals.
        5.  To Olympia.6.  Who
achieved divinity after his mother had been so killed, rather than himself, as
with Asclepius.  An epigram in the Anthology (XVI, 185) similarly
links Dionysius with achieving immortality by fire.7.  We learn
elsewhere in this piece that Theagenes lived in Patras and had property worth
fifteen talents, obtained by lending money. Bernays (Lucian und die Kyniker,
pp. 13-18) is very likely right in thinking this to be the man whose death in
Rome is described by Galen (Meth. Med., 13, 15: X, 909 Kühn), but he makes
rather too much of that passage as an endorsement of Theagenes.8. 
Diogenes.

9.  Lucian himself, no doubt.  Evidently the cynic
had spoken from a high place (perhaps the portico of the gymnasium).10. 
The proportions of the statue of a naked youth carrying a spear (the doryphorus),
made by Polyclitus, were analysed by the
sculptor himself in a book called the Canon, and universally accepted as
canonical for the male figure.11. The sense of the unemended text here is
“protector; that great man, to be sure, they’ still worship,” etc.12.  From the
wording of this sentence the allusion is so obviously to Christ himself that
one is at a loss to under stand why Paul, let alone Moses, should have been
suggested. For the doctrine of brotherly love cf. Matt. 23, 8.

13.  The Roman
governor of the province of Syria is meant. Identification is impossible
because the date of the imprison ment of Peregrinus cannot be fixed.
14.  “The usual
chastisement” (Allinson’s phrase) was Scourging.
15.  A small
(but not really so contemptible) Greek town on the Hellespont, site of a Roman
colony since Augustus. See Sir W. Leaf, Strabo
on the Troad, pp. 80—85. 
16.  Probably what Lucian has in mind is pagan sacrificial
meats.  This is just a guess from the way he puts it, but if so, it is
highly plausible on account of the notorious
indifference of the Cynics towards what they ate. Peregrinus may have
signalised his relapse to Cynicism by sampling a “dinner of Hecate” at the
cross-roads.
17.  In Demonax, 3, Lucian alludes to
Agathobulus as one of those with whom Demonax had studied. The teacher of
Peregrinus was therefore reputable as well as famous.
18.  The
allusion is to that variety of “indifferent” action (i.e. neither good nor bad)
ascribed to Diogenes himself by Dio Chrysostom VI, 16-20 (pp. 203-204 r).
19.  Antoninus
Pius.
20. The life of
Antoninus Pius (Script. Hist. Aug.), § 5, notes suppression of a rebellion in
Achaia.
21. The man
was the famous Herodes Atticus. For the aqueduct built by him at Olympia see
Frazer’s Pausanias, Vol. IV, pp. 72 ff. Philostratus (Vit. Soph. II, 1, 33) records
that Herodes was often berated by Proteus, to whom on one occasion he hinted
that it might at least be done in Greek.
 



20.    “When they
almost killed him with stones, mobbing him with one accord, he managed to
escape death at the moment by fleeing to Zeus for sanctuary (stout fellow!),
and afterwards, at the next Olympiad, he gave the Greeks a speech which he had
composed during the four years that had intervened, praising the man who had
brought in the water and defending himself for running away at that time. 
    “At last,
he was disregarded by all and no longer so admired; for all his stuff was stale
and be could not turn out any further novelty with which to surprise those who
came in his way and make them marvel and stare at him—a thing for which he had
a fierce craving from the first. So he devised this ultimate venture of the
pyre, and spread a report among the Greeks immediately after the last Olympic
games that he would burn himself up at the next festival. [21].  And now, they say, he
is playing the mountebank over that very thing, digging a pit, collecting
logs, and promising really awesome fortitude.22
    “What he
should have done, I think, was first and foremost to await death and not to cut
and run from life, but if he had determined to be off, at all costs not to use
fire or any of these devices out of tragedy, but to choose for his departure
some other form of death out of the myriads that there are.  If, however, he is
partial to fire as something connected with Heracles, why in the world did he
not quietly select a well-wooded mountain and cremate himself upon it in
solitude,
taking along only one person such as Theagenes here for his Philoctetes? 23 On the
contrary, it is in Olympia,
at the height of the festival, all but in the theatre, that he plans to roast
himself— not undeservedly, by Heracles, if it is right for parricides and for
atheists to suffer for their hardinesses.24  And from that point of view he
seems to be getting about it very late in the day, he ought long ago to have
been flung into the bull of Phalaris25 to pay the fitting penalty
instead of opening his mouth to the flames once for all and expiring in a trice.
For people tell
me that no other form of death is quicker than that by fire, you have only to
open your mouth, and die forthwith.
22.     “The
spectacle is being planned, I suppose, as something awe-inspiring—a fellow
getting burnt up in a holy place where it is impious even to bury the others
who die.  But you have heard, no doubt, that long ago a man who wished to become
famous burned the temple of Ephesian Artemis, not being able to attain that end
in any other way.26  He himself has something similar in mind, so great is the
craving for fame that has penetrated him to the core.
23.    “He alleges,
however, that he is doing it for the sake of his fellow men, that he may teach
them to despise death and endure what is fearsome. For my part, I should like
to ask, not him but you, whether you would wish malefactors to become his
disciples in this fortitude of his, and to despise death and burning and
similar terrors. No, you would not, I am very sure.  How, then, is Proteus to
draw distinctions in this matter, and to benefit the good without making the
bad more adventurous and daring?
24.    “Nevertheless,
suppose it possible that only those will present themselves at this affair who
will see it to their advantage Once more I shall question you : would you desire
your children to become imitators of such a man? You will not say so. But why
did I ask that question, when even of his disciples themselves not
one would imitate him? In fact, the thing for which one might blame Theagenes
most of all is that although he copies the man in everything else, he does not
follow his teacher and take the road with him, now that he is off, as he says,
to join Heracles; why, he has the opportunity to attain absolute felicity
instanter by plunging headlong into the fire with him!

       “Emulation
is not a matter of wallet, staff, and mantle; all this is safe and easy and
within anyone’s power. One should emulate the consummation and culmination,
build a pyre of fig-wood logs as green as can be, and stifle one’s self in the
smoke of them. Fire itself belongs not only to Heracles and Asclepius, but to doers
of sacrilege and murder, who can be seen enduring it by judicial sentence.
Therefore it is better to employ smoke, which would be peculiar and belong only
to you and your like.
25.    “Besides,
if Heracles really did venture any such act, he did it because he was ailing,
because the blood of the Centaur, as the tragedy tells us, was preying upon
him; but for what reason does this man throw himself bodily into the fire? Oh,
yes! to demon­strate his fortitude, like the Brahmans, for Theagenes thought
fit to compare him with them, just as if there could not be fools and
notoriety-seekers even among the Indians. Well, then, let him at least imitate them. They do not leap into the fire (so
Onesicritus says, Alexander’s navigator, who saw Calanus burning), but when
they have built their pyre, they stand close beside it motionless and endure being
toasted; then, mounting upon it, they cremate themselves decorously without the
slightest alteration of the position in which they are lying.
    “In this man's case, what great thing will it be if he tumbles in and dies in the sudden
grip of the fire? It is not beyond expectation that he will jump out half
consumed, unless, as they say, he is going to see to it that the pyre is deep
down in a pit. [26]  There are people who say that he has even changed his mind, and
is telling certain dreams, to the effect that Zeus does not permit pollution of
a holy place.  But let him be assured on that score ; I would take my oath to it that
no one of the gods would be angry if Per egrinus should die a rogue s death.
Moreover, it is not easy for him to withdraw now, for his Cynic associates are
urging him on and pushing him into the fire and inflaming his resolution; they
will not let him shirk it. If he should pull a couple of them into the fire
along with him when he jumps in, that would be the only nice thing about his
performance.

 



22.  Thanks to Paul Graindor, the date of the Olympiads
mentioned in connection with Peregrinus can now be determined.  He has
deduced from the apparent ages of the children represented in the exedra erected
by Herodes on the completion of his aqueduct  that this took place in A.D.
153 (Herode Atticus et Sa Famille, pp. 87-88).  His deduction finds
support in the text of Lucian as soon as we recognise that Lucian is talking
about four different Olympiads, not three.  The first is that on which
Peregrinus criticised the aqueduct, which will be the year of its completion, A.
D. 153.  At the next, A.D. 157, he withdrew his criticism.  The
Olympiad just after which he announced his intention of cremating  himself
need not and cannot be identical with the one of A.
D. 157 it is called by the speaker the last
or previous, and the text clearly
implies a lapse of time. It must therefore be the one of A. D. 161. Then comes the
fourth, on which the cremation took place, dated by Eusebius in A. D. 165.
23.   Philoctetes had helped Heracles to cremate
himself on Mt Oeta by kindling the pyre for him
24.  As the cremation actually took place at
Harpina, two miles away from Olympia and on the day after the festival closed,
it may be that religious scruples (cf. § 26) caused Peregrinus to modify an
original plan which involved its taking place at Olympia itself while the
festival was in progress.
25.  See 
Phalaris I, 11-12 (Vol. I, pp. 17 ff.)
26.  Herostratus, in 356 B.C.  The Ephesians sought
to defeat his object by forbidding anyone for all time to mention his name (Valerius
Maximus, VIII, 14, 5).  The prohibition which very likely was
accompanied by a curse, was far from ineffective,
for nearly all ancient authors who mention the story, including Cicero and
Plutarch, omit the name just as Lucian does.




27.    “I have
heard that he no longer deigns to be called Proteus but has changed his name to
Phoenix, because the phoenix the Indian bird, is said to mount a pyre when it is
very far advanced in age Indeed, he even manufactures myths and repeats certain
oracles, ancient, of course, to the purport that he is to become a guardian
spirit of the night; it is plain, too, that he already covets altars and
expects to be imaged in gold.
28.     “By Zeus,
it would be nothing unnatural if, among all the dolts that there are, some
should be found to assert that
they were relieved of quartan fevers by him, and that in the dark they had
encountered the guardian spirit of the night! Then too these accursed disciples
of his will make an oracular shrine, I suppose, with a holy of holies, at the
site of the pyre, because the famous Proteus, son of Zeus, the progenitor of
his name, was given to soothsaying.27 I pledge my word, too, that priests of his
will be appointed, with whips or branding irons or some such flummy-diddle, or
even that a nocturnal mystery will be got up in his honour, including a torch
festival at the site of the pyre.

 



27.  Athenagoras reports that Parium, where Peregrinus was
born, cherished a statue of him from which oracles were derived (Leg. de
Christ., 26).



29.     “Theagenes,
as I have been told by one of my friends, recently said that the Sibyl had made
a prediction about all this, in fact, he quoted the verses from memory:

But when
the time shall come that Proteus, noblest of Cynics,
    Kindleth
fire in the precinct of Zeus, our Lord of the Thunder,
Leapeth
into the flame, and cometh to lofty Olympus,
    Then do I
bid all alike who eat the fruit of the ploughland
Honour to
pay unto him that walketh abroad in the night-time,
    Greatest of
spirits, thronéd with Heracles and Hephaestus.
  
 
  



 



30.    “That is
what Theagenes alleges he heard from the Sibyl. But I will quote him one of the
oracles of Bacis
dealing with these matters.28 Bacis expresses himself as follows,
with a very excellent moral

Nay, when
the time shall come that a Cynic with names that are many
      Leaps into
roaring flame, soul stirred by a passion for glory,
  Then it is
meet that the others, the jackals that follow his footsteps,
      Mimic the
latter end of the wolf that has taken departure.
  But if a
dastard among them shall shun the might of Hephaestus,
      Let him be pelted with stones forthwith by all the Achaeans,
  Learning,
the frigid fool, to abjure all fiery speeches,
      He that has
laden his wallet with gold by the taking of usance,
  Thrice five
talents he owns in the lovely city of Patras.
  

 
  


28.  Lucian gives the Cynic a Roland for his Oliver. 
Bacis was a title rather than a name, and in early Greece prophets who bore it
were little less numerous than the Sibyls.  Naturally it was a convenient
tag for a spurious oracle, whether composed with fraudulent intention or, as
often in Aristophanes, for fun.




What do you
think, gentlemen? That Bacis is a worse soothsayer than the Sibyl? It is high
time, then, for these wondrous followers of Proteus to look about for a place
in which to aerify themselves—for that
is the name they give to cremation.29

 


29.  Below (§29) Proteus speaks of being "commingled
with the ether."



31.    When he had
said these words all the bystanders shouted: “Let them be burned right now;
they deserve the flames!" And the man got down again laughing; but “Nestor
failed not to mark the din:"30  I mean Theagenes. When he heard the shouting he
came at once, took the platform, and fell to ranting and
telling countless malicious tales about the man who had just got down—I do not
know what that excellent gentleman s name was. For my part, I left him splitting
his lungs and went off to see the athletes, as the Hellanodicae were said to be
already in the Plethrium.31

 


30.  Iliad, XIV, 1.
31.  According to Pausanias (VI 23 2) a place in the Gym nasium of
Elis where the officials of the
games (Hellanodicae) determined by lot the matching of the athletes.



32.  Well, there
you have what happened at Elis, and when we reached Olympia, the rear chamber3 2 was
full of people criticising Proteus or praising his purpose, so that most of
them even came to blows Finally, Proteus himself appeared, escorted by a
countless multitude, after the contest of the heralds, and had somewhat to say
about himself, telling of the life that he had led and the risks that he had
run, and of all the troubles that he had endured for philosophy' s sake. His
speech was protracted, though I heard but little on account of the number of
bystanders. Afterwards, fearing to be crushed in such a throng, because I saw
this happening to many, I went away, bidding a long farewell to the sophist
enamoured of death who was pronouncing his own funeral oration before his
demise.

 



32. Of the
temple of Zeus as it was open at the end it formed a sort of portico Cf Runaways 7 Herodotus 1.



33.  This much
however I overheard, he said that he wanted to put a tip of gold on a golden
bow;33 for one who had lived as Heracles should die like Heracles and be
commingled with the ether. And I wish, said he, to benefit mankind by showing
them the way in
which one should despise death; wherefore all men ought to play Philoctetes to
me.” The more witless among the people began to shed tears and call out:
“Preserve your life for the Greeks!” but the more virile part bawled “Carry out
your purpose!” by which the old man was immoderately upset, because he hoped
that all would cling to him and not give him over to the fire, but retain him
in life—against his will, naturally! That “Carry out your purpose” assailing
him quite unexpectedly caused him to turn still paler, although his colour was
already deathly, and even to tremble slightly, so that he brought his speech to
an end.

 



33.  Pandarus
the Trojan (Iliad, IV, 111) put a tip
of gold on the bow he had fashioned of horn. The golden bow(bio) of Peregrinus is his life
(bio).




34.  You can
imagine, I expect, how I laughed; for it was not fitting to pity a man so
desperately in love with glory beyond all others who are driven by the same
Fury. Anyhow, he was being escorted by crowds and getting his fill of glory as
lie gazed at the number of his admirers, not knowing, poor wretch, that men on
their way to the cross or in the grip of the executioner have many more at
their heels.

 



 



35.  Soon the
Olympic games were ended, the most splendid Olympics that I have seen, though it
was then the fourth time that I had been a spectator. As it was not easy to
secure a carriage, since many were leaving at the same time, I lingered on
against my will, and Peregrinus kept making postponements, but at last had
announced a night on which he would stage his cremation; so, as one of my
friends had invited me to go along, I arose at midnight and took the road to
Harpina, where the pyre was. This is quite twenty furlongs from Olympia as one
goes past the
hippodrome towards the east. As soon as we arrived, we found a pyre built in a
pit about six feet deep. It was composed mostly of torchwood, and the
interstices filled with brush, that it might take fire quickly. When the moon
was rising—for she too had to witness this glorious deed—he came forward,
dressed in his usual fashion, and with him the leaders of the Cynics, in
particular, the gentleman from Patras, with a torch—no bad understudy. Proteus
too was bearing a torch. Men, approaching from this side and that, kindled the
fire into a very great flame, since it came from torchwood and brush. Per
egrinus—and give me your close attention now !—laying aside the wallet, the
cloak, and that notable Heracles-club, stood there in a shirt that was downright
filthy. Then he requested incense to throw on the fire, when someone had
proffered it, he threw it on, and gazing towards the south—even the south, too,
had to do with the show33—he said, "Spirits of my mother and my
father, receive me with favour." With that he leaped into the fire, he was not
visible, however, but was encompassed by the flames, which had risen to a great
height.

 



33.  Part of the Hindu element was the idea that the souls
after death were conducted to the South, the region of the Manes See Atharvaveda 18, 3, 13; 4, 40,
2.




37.  Once more I
see y ou laughing, Cronius, my urbane friend, at the denoument of the
play.  For my own part, when he called upon the guardian spirits of his
mother, I did not criticise him very strongly, but when he invoked those of his
father as well, I recalled the tales that had been told about his murder, and I
could not control my laughter.  The Cynics stood about the pyre, not
weeping, to be sure, but silently evincing a certain amount of grief as they
gazed into the fire, until my gorge rose at them, and I said, "Let us go
away, you simpletons.  It is not an agreeable spectacle to look at an old
man who has been roasted, getting our nostrils filled with a villanous
reek.  Or are you waiting for a painter to come and picture you as the
companions of Socrates in prison are portrayed beside him?"  They were
indignant and reviled me, and several even took to their sticks.  Then,
when I threatened to gather up a few of them and throw them into the fire, so
that they might follow their master, they checked themselves and kept the peace.
 


 




38.  As I returned, I was thinking busily, my friend, reflecting what a
strange thing love of glory isl how this passion alone is unescapeable even by
those who are considered wholly admirable, let alone that man who in other
respects had led a life that was insane and reckless, and not  undeserving
of the fire.  Then I encountered many people coming out to see the show
themselves, for they expected to find him still alive.  You see, on the day
before it had been given out that he would greet the rising sun, as in fact they
say the Brahmans do, before mountin the pyre. Well, I
turned back most of them by saying the deed had been done already, those to
whom it was not in itself highly desirable to see the actual spot, anyhow, and
gather up some relic of the fire. In that business I assure you, my friend, I
had no end of
trouble, telling the story to all while they asked questions and sought exact
information. Whenever I noticed a man of taste, I would tell him the facts
without embellishment, as I have to you, but for the benefit of the dullards,
agog to listen, I would thicken the plot a bit on my own account, saying that
when the pyre was kindled and Proteus flung himself bodily in, a great
earthquake first took place, accompanied by a bellowing of the ground, and then
a vulture, flying up out of the midst of the flames, went off to Heaven,34 saying,
in human speech, with a loud voice:
“I am
through with the earth; to Olympus I fare.”
They were
wonder-struck and blessed themselves with a shudder, and asked me whether the
vulture sped eastwards or westwards; I made them whatever reply occurred to me.

 



34.  At the death of Plato and of Augustus it was an
eagle;  in the case of Polycarp, a dove.



40.  On my
return to the festival, I came upon a grey-haired man whose face, I assure you,
inspired confidence in addition to his beard and his general air of
consequence, telling all about Proteus, and how, since his cremation, he had
beheld him in white raiment a little while ago, and had just now left him
walking about cheerfully in the Portico of the Seven Voices,35 wearing a garland
of wild olive. Then on top of it all, he put the vulture, swearing that he himself had seen it flying up out of
the pyre, when I myself had just previously let it fly to ridicule fools and
dullards.

 



35.  This was a portico on the east side of the Altis which
had a sevenfold echo (Pausan., V, 21, 17; Pliny, XXXVI, 100).




41.  Imagine
what is likely to happen in his honour hereafter, how many bees will not settle
on the place, what cicadas will not sing upon it, what crows will not fly to it,
as they did to the tomb of Hesiod36 and so forth!  As to statues, I
know that many will be set up right soon by the Eleans themselves and also by
the other Greeks, to whom he said he had sent letters.  The story is that he
despatched missives to almost all the famous cities—testamentary dispositions,
so
to speak, and exhortations and prescriptions—and he appointed a number of
ambassadors for this purpose from among his comrades, styling them " messengers
from the dead" and "underworld couriers.”37
42.  So ended
that poor wretch Proteus, a man who (to put it briefly) never fixed his gaze on
the verities, but always did and said everything with a view to glory and the
praise of the multitude, even to the extent of
leaping into fire, when he was sure not to enjoy the praise because he could
not hear it.
43.  I shall add
one thing more to my story before I stop, in order that you may be able to have
a good laugh. For of course you have long known that other tale of mine, as you
heard it from me at once, when on my return from Syria I recounted how I sailed
from the Troad in his company, and about his self-indulgence on the voyage,
and the handsome boy whom he had persuaded to turn Cynic that he too might
have an Alcibiades, and how, when we were disturbed during the night in
mid-Aegean by a tempest that descended and raised an enormous sea, this
wondrous person who was thought to be superior to death fell to wailing along
with the women! Well, a short time before his end, about nine days, it may be,
having eaten more than enough, I suppose, he was sick during the night and was
taken with a very violent fever. This was told me by Alexander the physician,
who had been called in to see him. He said that he found him rolling on the
ground, unable to stand the burning, pleading very passionately for a drink of
cold water, but that he would not give it to him. Moreover, he told him, he
said, that Death, if he absolutely wanted him, had come to his door
spontaneously, so that it would be well to go along, without asking any favour
from the fire; and Proteus replied: “But that way would not be so notable,
being common to all men.”
45.  That is Alexander’s story. And I myself not many days previously saw him smeared with
ointment in order that the sharp salve might relieve his vision by making him
shed tears. Do you get the idea? Aeacus is reluctant to receive people with
weak eyes! It is as if a man about to go up to the cross should nurse the
bruise on his finger. What do you think Democritus would have done, had he seen
this? Would not he have laughed at the man as roundly as he deserved? And yet,
where could he have got that much laughter? Well, my friend, you may have your
laugh also, particularly when you hear the rest of them admiring him.


36.  See
Pausanias (IX 38 3) when Orchomenus was afflicted by a plague the Delphic
priestess told its people that their only salvation was to bring there from
Naupactus the bones of Hesiod, and that a crow would show them the tomb. Her
words were borne out by the event.
37. In the
letters of Ignatius he recommends to the Church of Smyrna the election of a
special messenger, styled” ambas sador of God” ([Greek omitted]:  ad Smyrn., 11) or “courier of God
([Greek omitted]  ad Polyc. 7) to be sent to
Syria. The verbal coincidence is notable (cf. Lightfoot), and seems to indicate
a knowledge of these letters, but on the part of Peregrinus, not Lucian.





