
Acts of Perpetua and Felicitas











Vibia Perpetua, was executed in the arena in Carthage on 7 March 203.  The account of her martyrdom - technically a Passion -is apparently historical and has special interest as much of it was written [section 3-10], in Latin by Perpetua herself before her death. This makes it one of the earliest pieces of writing by a Christian woman.


PROLOGUE


1.  If ancient examples of faith kept, both testifying the grace

of God and working the edification of man, have to this end been

set in writing, that by their reading as though by the showing

of the deeds again, God may be glorified and man strengthened;

why should not new witnesses also be so set forth which likewise

serve either end? Yea, for these things also shall at some time

be ancient and necessary to our sons, though in their own present

time (through some reverence of antiquity presumed) they are made

of but slight account. But let those take heed who judge the one

power of the Holy Spirit according to the succession of times;

whereas those things which are later ought for their very lateness

to be thought the more eminent, according to the abundance of

grace appointed for the last periods of time. For In the last

days, says the Lord, I will pour my spirit upon

all flesh, and their sons and daughters shall prophesy; and
upon my servants and upon my handmaids I will pour forth
of my spirit; and the young men shall see visions, and the

old men shall dream dreams. [Acts 2:17, cf. Joel 2:28] 



We also therefore, by whom both the prophecies and the new visions

promised are received and honored, and by whom those other wonders

of the Holy Spirit are assigned unto the service of the Church,

to which also was sent the same Spirit administering all gifts

among all men, according as the Lord hath distributed unto

each [I.Cor 7:17]- do of necessity both write them and by

reading celebrate them to the glory of God; that no weakness or

failing of faith may presume that among those of old time only

was the grace of divinity present, whether in martyrs or in revelations

vouchsafed; since God ever works that which He has promised, for

a witness to them that believe not and a benefit to them that

believe. Wherefore we too, brethren and dear sons, declare

to you likewise that which we have heard and handled

[I Cor 15:1?]; that both you who were present may call

to mind the glory of the Lord, and you who now know by hearing

may have communion with those holy martyrs, and through them with

the Lord Jesus Christ, to whom is glory and honor for ever and

ever. Amen.



2. There were apprehended the young catechumens, Revocatus and

Felicity his fellow servant, Saturninus and Secundulus. With them

also was Vibia Perpetua, nobly born reared in a liberal manner,

wedded honorably; having a father and mother and two brothers,

one of them a catechumen likewise, and a son, a child at the breast;

and she herself was about twenty-two years of age. What follows

here shall she tell herself; the whole order of her martyrdom

as she left it written with her own hand and in her own words.



PERPETUA'S  ACCOUNT


3.  When, she said, we were still under legal surveillance and

my father was liked to vex me with his words and continually strove

to hurt my faith because of his  love: Father,  said I, Do you

see (for examples) this vessel lying, a pitcher or whatsoever

it may be? And he said, I see it. And I said to him, Can it be

called by any other name than that which it is? And he answered,

No. So can I call myself nought other than that which I am, a

Christian. 



Then my father angry with this word came upon me to tear out my

eyes; but he only vexed me, and he departed vanquished, he and

the arguments of the devil. Then because I was without my father

for a few days I gave thanks unto the Lord; and I was comforted

because of his absence. In this same space of a few days we were

baptised, and the Spirit declared to me, I must pray for nothing

else after that water save only endurance of the flesh. After

a few days  we were taken into prison, and I was much afraid because

I had never known such darkness. O bitter day! There was a great

heat because of the press, there was cruel handling of the soldiers.

Lastly I was tormented there by care for the child. 



Then Tertius and Pomponius, the blessed deacons who ministered

to us, obtained with money that for a few hours we should be taken

forth to a better part of the prison and be refreshed. Then all

of them going out from the dungeon took their pleasure; I suckled

my child that was now faint with hunger. And being careful for

him, I spoke to my mother and strengthened my brother and commended

my son unto them. I pined because I saw they pined for my sake.

Such cares I suffered for many days; and I obtained that the child

should abide with me in prison; and straightway I became well

and was lightened of my labour and care for the child; and suddenly

the prison was made a palace for me, so that I would sooner be

there than anywhere else.



4. Then said my brother to me: Lady my sister, you are now in

high honor, even such that you might ask for a vision; and it

should be shown you whether this be a passion or else a deliverance.

And I, as knowing that I conversed with the Lord, for Whose sake

I had suffered such things, did promise him nothing doubting;

and I said: Tomorrow I will  tell you. And I asked, and this was

shown me.



I beheld a ladder of bronze, marvelously great, reaching up to

heaven; and it was narrow, so that not more than one might go

up at one time. And in the sides of the ladder were planted all

manner of things of iron. There were swords there, spears, hooks,

and knives; so that if any that went up took not good heed or

looked not upward, he would be torn and his flesh cling to the

iron. And there was right at the ladder's foot a serpent lying,

marvelously great, which lay in wait for those that would go up,

and frightened them that they might not go up. Now Saturus went

up first (who afterwards had of his own free will given up himself

for our -sakes, because it was he who had edified us; and when

we were taken he had not been there). And he came to the ladder's

head; and he turned and said: Perpetua, I await you; but see that

serpent bite you not. And I said: it shall not hurt me, in the

name of Jesus Christ. And from beneath the ladder, as though it

feared me, it softly put forth its head; and as though I trod

on the first step I trod on its head. And I went up, and I saw

a very great space of garden, and in the midst a man sitting,

white-headed, in shepherd's clothing, tall milking his sheep;

and standing around in white were many thousands. And he raised

his head and beheld me and said to me: Welcome, child. And he

cried to me, and from the curd he had from the milk he gave me

as it were a morsel; and I took it with joined hands and ate it

up; and all that stood around said, Amen. And at the sound of

that word I awoke, yet eating I know not what of sweet.



And at once I told my brother, and we knew it should be a passion;

and we began to have no hope any longer in this world.



5.  A few days after, the report went abroad that we were to be

tried. Also my father returned from the city spent with weariness;

and he came up to me to cast down my faith saying: Have pity,

daughter, on my grey hairs; have pity on your father, if I am

worthy to be, called father by you; if with these hands I have

brought you unto this flower of youth- and I-have preferred you

before all your brothers; give me not over to the reproach of

men. Look upon your brothers; look upon your mother and mother's

sister; look upon your son, who will not endure to live after

you. Give up your resolution; do not destroy us all together;

for none of us will speak openly against men again if you suffer

aught. 



This he said fatherly in his love, kissing my hands and grovelling

at my feet; and with tears he named me, not daughter, but lady.

And I was grieved for my father's case because he would not rejoice

at my passion out of all my kin; and I comforted him, saying:

That shall be done at this tribunal, whatsoever God shall please;

for know that we are not established in our own power, but in

God's. And he went from me very sorrowful.



6. Another day as we were at meal we were suddenly snatched away

to be tried; and we came to the forum. Therewith a report spread

abroad through the parts near to the forum, and a very great multitude

gathered together. We went up to the tribunal. The others being

asked, confessed. So they came to me. And my father appeared there

also, with my son, and would draw me from the step, saying: Perform

the Sacrifice; have mercy on the child. And Hilarian the procurator

- he that after the death of Minucius Timinian the proconsul had

received in his room the right and power of the sword - said:

Spare your father's grey hairs; spare the infancy of the boy.

Make sacrifice for the Emperors' prosperity. And I answered: I

am a Christian. And when my father stood by me yet to cast down

my faith, he was bidden by Hilarian to be cast down and was smitten

with a rod. And I sorrowed for my father's harm as though I had

been smitten myself; so sorrowed I for his unhappy old age. Then

Hilarian passed sentence upon us all and condemned us to the beasts;

and cheerfully we went down to the dungeon. Then because my child

had been used to being breastfed and to staying with me in the

prison, straightway I sent Pomponius the deacon to my father,

asking for the child. But my father would not give him. And as

God willed, no longer did he need to be suckled, nor did I take

fever; that I might not be tormented by care for the child and

by the pain of my breasts.



7.  A few days after, while we were all praying, suddenly in the

midst of the prayer I uttered a word and named Dinocrates; and

I was amazed because he had never come into my mind save then;

and I sorrowed, remembering his fate. And straightway I knew that

I was worthy, and that I ought to ask for him. And I began to

pray for him long, and to groan unto the Lord. Immediately the

same night, this was shown me.



I beheld Dinocrates coming forth from a dark place, where were

many others also; being both hot and thirsty, his raiment foul,

his color pale; and the wound on his face which he had when he

died. This Dinocrates had been my brother in the flesh, seven

years old, who being diseased with ulcers of the face had come

to a horrible death, so that his death was abominated of all men.

For him therefore I had made my prayer; and between him and me

was a great gulf, so that either might not go to the other. There

was moreover, in the same place where Dinocrates was, a font full

of water, having its edge higher than was the boy's stature; and

Dinocrates stretched up as though to drink. I was sorry that the

font had water in it, and yet for the height of the edge he might

not drink.



And I awoke, and I knew that my brother was in travail. Yet I

was confident I should ease his travail; and I prayed for him

every day till we passed over into the camp prison. (For it was

in the camp games that we were to fight; and the time was the

feast of the Emperor Geta's birthday.) And I prayed for him day

and night with groans and tears, that he might be given me.



8.  On the day when we abode in the stocks, this was shown me.



I saw that place which I had before seen, and Dinocrates clean

of body, finely clothed, m comfort; and the font I had seen before,

the edge of it being drawn to the boy's navel; and he drew water

thence which flowed without ceasing. And on the edge was a golden

cup full of water; and Dinocrates came up and began to drink therefrom;

which cup failed not. And being satisfied he departed away from

the water and began to play as children will, joyfully.



And I awoke. Then I understood that he was translated from his

pains.



9. Then a few days after, Pudens the adjutant, in whose charge

the prison was, who also began to magnify us because he understood

that there was much grace in us, let in many to us that both we

and they in turn might be comforted. Now when the day of the games

drew near, there came in my father to me , spent with weariness,

and began to pluck out his beard and throw it on e ground and

to fall on his face cursing his years and saying such words as

might move all creation. I was grieved for his unhappy old age.



10.  The day before we fought, I saw in a vision that Pomponius

the deacon had come hither to the door of the prison, and knocked

hard upon it. And I went out to him and opened to him; he was

clothed in a white robe ungirdled, having shoes curiously wrought.

And he said to me: Perpetua, we await you; come. And he took my

hand, and we began to go through rugged and winding places. At

last with much breathing hard we came to the amphitheatre, and

he led me into the midst of the arena. And he said to me: Be not

afraid; I am here with you and labour together with you. And he

went away. And I saw much people watching closely. And because

I knew that I was condemned to the beasts I marvelled that beasts

were not sent out against me. And there came out against me a

certain ill-favored Egyptian with his helpers, to fight with me.

Also there came to me comely young men, my helpers and aiders.

And I was stripped naked, and I became a man. And my helpers began

to rub me with oil as their custom is for a contest; and over

against me saw that Egyptian wallowing in the dust. And there

came forth a man of very great stature, so that he overpassed

the very top of the amphitheatre, wearing a robe ungirdled, and

beneath it between the two stripes over the breast a robe of purple;

having also shoes curiously wrought in gold and silver; bearing

a rod like a master of gladiators, and a green branch whereon

were golden apples. And he besought silence and said: The Egyptian,

if shall conquer this woman, shall slay her with the sword; and

if she shall conquer him, she shall receive this branch. And he

went away. And we came nigh to each other, and began to buffet

one another. He tried to trip up my feet, but I with my heels

smote upon his face. And I rose up into the air and began so to

smite him as though I trod not the earth. But when I saw that

there was yet delay, I joined my hands, setting finger against

finger of them.  And I caught his head, and he fell upon his face;

and I trod upon his head. And the people began to shout, and my

helpers began to sing. And I went up to the master of gladiators

and received the branch. And he kissed me and said to me: Daughter,

peace be with you. And I began to go with glory to the gate called

the Gate of Life.



And I awoke; and I understood that I should fight, not with beasts

but against the devil; but I knew that mine was the victory.



Thus far I have written this, till the day before the games; but

the deed of the games tehmsleves let him write who will.



SATURUS' ACCOUNT


11. And blessed Saturus too delivered this vision which he himself

wrote down.



We had suffered, he said, and we passed out of the flesh, and

we began to be carried towards the east by four angels whose hand

touched us not. And we went not as though turned upwards upon

our backs, but as though we went up an easy hill. And passing

over the world's edge we saw a very great light; and I said to

Perpetua (for she was at my side): This which the Lord promised

us; we have received His promise. And while we were being carried

by these same four angels, a great space opened before us, as

it had been a having rose-trees and all kinds of flowers. The

height of the trees was after the manner of the cypress, and their

leaves sang without ceasing. And there in the garden were four

other angels, more glorious than the rest; who when they saw us

gave us honor and said to the other angels: Lo, here are they,

here are they: and marvelled. And the four angels who bore us

set us down trembling; and we passed on foot by a broad way  over

a plain. There we found Jocundus and Saturninus and Artaxius who

in the same persecution had been burned alive; and Quintus, a

martyr also, who in prison had departed this life; and we asked

of them where were the rest. The other angels said to us: Come

first, go in, and salute the Lord.



12.  And we came near to a place, of which place the walls were

such, they seemed built of light; and before the door of that

place stood four angels who clothed us when we went in with white

raiment. And we went in, and we heard as it were one voice crying

Sanctus, Sanctus, Sanctus, without any end. And we saw

sitting in that same place as it were a man, white-headed, having

hair like snow; youthful of countenance; whose feet we saw not.

And on his right hand and on his left, four elders; and behind

them stood many other elders. And we went in with wonder and stood

before the throne; and the four angels raised us up and we kissed

him, and with his hand he passed over our faces. And the other

elders said to us: Stand you. And we stood, and gave the kiss

of peace. And the elders said to us: Go you and play. And I said

to Perpetua: You have that which you desire. And she said to me:

Yes, God be thanked; so that I that was glad in the flesh am now

more glad.



13. And we went out, and we saw before the doors, on the right

Optatus the bishop, and on the left Aspasius the priest and teacher,

being apart and sorrowful. And they cast themselves at our feet

and said: Make peace between us, because you went forth and left

us thus. And we said to them: Are not you our Father, and you

our priest, that you should throw yourselves at our feet? And

we were moved, and embraced them. And Perpetua began to talk with

them in Greek; and we set them apart in the pleasure garden beneath

a rose tree. And while we yet spoke with them, the angels said

to them: Let these go and be refreshed; and whatsoever dissensions

you have between you, Put them away from you each for each. And

they made them to be confounded. And they said to Optatus: Correct

your people; for they come to you as those that return from the

games and wrangle concerning the parties there. And it seemed

to us as though they would shut the gates. And we began to know

many brothers there, martyrs also. And we were all sustained there

with a savour inexpressible which satisfied us. Then in joy I

awoke.



NARRATIVE OF MARTYRDOM


14.  These were the glorious visions of those martyrs themselves,

the most blessed Saturus and Perpetua, which they themselves wrote

down. But Secundulus by an earlier end God called from this world

while he was yet in prison; not without grace, that he should

escape the beasts. Yet if not his soul, his flesh at least knew

the sword.



15. As for Felicity, she too received this grace of the Lord.

For because she was now gone eight months (being indeed with child

when she was taken) she was very sorrowful as the day of the games

drew near, fearing lest for this cause she should be kept back

(for it is not lawful for women that are with child to be brought

forth for torment) and lest she should shed her holy and innocent

blood after the rest, among strangers and malefactors. Also her

fellow martyrs were much afflicted lest they should leave behind

them so good a friend and as it were their fellow-traveller on

the road of the same hope. Wherefore with joint and united groaning

they poured out their prayer to the Lord, three days before the

games. Incontinently after their prayer her pains came upon her.

And when by reason of the natural difficulty of the eighth month

she was oppressed with her travail and made complaint, there said

to her one of the servants of the keepers of the door: You that

thus make complaint now, what wilt you do when you are thrown

to the beasts, which you didst contemn when you would not sacrifice?

And she answered, I myself now suffer that which I suffer, but

there another shall be in me who shall suffer for me, because

I am to suffer for him. So she was delivered of a daughter, whom

a sister reared up to be her own daughter.



16.  Since therefore the Holy Spirit has suffered, and suffering

has willed, that the order of the games also should be written;

though we are unworthy to finish the recounting of so great glory,

yet we accomplish the will of the most holy Perpetua, nay rather

her sacred trust, adding one testimony more of her own steadfastness

and height of spirit. When they were being more cruelly handled

by the tribune. because through advice of certain most despicable

men he feared lest by magic charms they might be withdrawn secretly

from the prison house, Perpetua answered him to his face: Why

do you not allow us to take some comfort, seeing we are victims

most noble, namely Caesar's, and on his feast day we are to fight?

Or is it not your glory that we should be taken out thither fatter

of flesh? The tribune trembled and blushed, and gave order that

they should be more gently handled, granting that her brothers

and the rest should come in and rest with them. Also the adjutant

of the prison now believed.



17. Likewise on the day before the games, when at the last feast

which they call Free they made (as far as they might) not a Free

Feast but a Love Feast*, with like hardihood they cast these words

at the people; threatening the judgment of the Lord, witnessing

to the felicity of their passion, setting at nought the curiosity

of those that ran together. And Saturus said: Is not tomorrow

sufficient for you? Why do you favorably behold that which you

hate? You are friends today, foes tomorrow. Yet mark our faces

diligently, that you may know us again on that day. So they began

all to go away thence astonished; of whom many believed.


[note: Apparently Roman, as with modern, custom the condemned

were allowed a choice of food. The martyrs used the opportunity

to celebrate an Agape, or Christian Love-Feast.]


18. Now dawned the day of their victory, and they went forth from

the prison into the amphitheatre as it were into heaven, cheerful

and bright of countenance; if they trembled at all, it was for

joy, not for fear. Perpetua followed behind, glorious of presence,

as a true spouse of Christ and darling of God; at whose piercing

look all cast down their eyes. Felicity likewise, rejoicing that

she had borne a child in safety, that she might fight with the

beasts, came now from blood to blood, from the midwife to the

gladiator, to wash after her travail in a second baptism. And

when they had been brought to the gate and were being compelled

to put on, the men the dress of the priests of Saturn, the women

the dress of the priestesses of Ceres, the noble Perpetua remained

of like firmness to the end, and would not. For she said: For

this cause came we willingly unto this, that our liberty might

not be obscured. For this cause have we devoted our lives, that

we might do no such thing as this; this we agreed with you. Injustice

acknowledged justice; the tribune suffered that they should be

brought forth as they were, without more ado. Perpetua began to

sing, as already treading on the Egyptian's head. Revocatus and

Saturninus and Saturus threatened the people as they gazed. Then

when they came into Hilarian's sight, they began to say to Hilarian,

stretching forth their hands and nodding their heads: You judge

us, they said,  and God you. At this the people being enraged

besought that they should be vexed with scourges before the line

of gladiators (those namely who fought with beasts). Then truly

they gave thanks because they had received somewhat of the sufferings

of the Lord.



19.  But He who had said Ask and you shall receive [John

16:24] gave to them asking that end which each had desired. For

whenever they spoke together of their desire in their martyrdom,

Saturninus for his part would declare that he wished to be thrown

to every kind of beast, that so indeed he might wear the more

glorious crown. At the beginning of the spectacle therefore himself

with Revocatus first had ado with a leopard and was afterwards

torn by a bear on a raised bridge. Now Saturus detested nothing

more than a bear, but was confident already he should die by one

bite of a leopard. Therefore when he was being given to a boar,

the gladiator instead who had bound him to the boar was torn asunder

by the same beast and died after the days of the games; nor was

Saturus more than dragged. Moreover when he had been tied on the

bridge to be assaulted by a bear, the bear would not come forth

from his den. So Saturus was called back unharmed a second time.



20.  But for the women the devil had made ready a most savage

cow, prepared for this purpose against all custom; for even in

this beast he would mock their sex. They were stripped therefore

and made to put on nets; and so they were brought forth. The people

shuddered, seeing one a tender girl, the other her breasts yet

dropping from her late childbearing. So they were called back

and clothed in loose robes. Perpetua was first thrown, and fell

upon her loins. And when she had sat upright, her robe being rent

at the side, she drew it over to cover her thigh, mindful rather

of modesty than of pain. Next, looking for a pin, she likewise

pinned up her dishevelled hair; for it was not meet that a martyr

should suffer with hair dishevelled, lest she should seem to grieve

in her glory. So she stood up; and when she saw Felicity smitten

down, she went up and gave her her hand and raised her up.. And

both of them stood up together and the (hardness of the people

being now subdued) were called back to the Gate of Life. There

Perpetua being received by one named Rusticus, then a catechumen,

who stood close at her side, and as now awakening from sleep (so

much was she in the Spirit and in ecstasy) began first to look

about her; and then (which amazed all there), When, forsooth,

 she asked, are we to be thrown to the cow? And when she heard

that this had been done already, she would not believe till she

perceived some marks of mauling on her body and on her dress.

Thereupon she called her brother to her, and that catechumen,

and spoke to them, saying: Stand fast in the faith, and love you

all one another; and be not offended because of our passion.



21. Saturus also at another gate exhorted Pudens the soldier,

saying: So then indeed, as I trusted and foretold, I have felt

no assault of beasts until now. And now believe with all your

heart. Behold, I go out thither and shall perish by one bite of

the leopard. And immediately at the end of the spectacle, the

leopard being released, with one bite of his he was covered with

so much blood that the people (in witness to his second baptism)

cried out to him returning: Well washed, well washed. Truly it

was well with him who had washed in this wise. Then said he to

Pudens the soldier: Farewell; remember the faith and me; and let

not these things trouble you, but strengthen you. And therewith

he took from Pudens' finger a little ring, and dipping it in his

wound gave it back again for an heirloom, leaving him a pledge

and memorial of his blood. Then as the breath left him he was

cast down with the rest in the accustomed place for his throat

to be cut. And when the people besought that they should be brought

forward, that when the sword pierced through their bodies their

eyes might be joined thereto as witnesses to the slaughter, they

rose of themselves and moved, whither the people willed them,

first kissing one another, that they might accomplish their martyrdom

with the rites of peace. The rest not moving and in silence received

the sword; Saturus much earlier gave up the ghost; for he had

gone up earlier also, and now he waited for Perpetua likewise.

But Perpetua, that she might have some taste of pain, was pierced

between the bones and shrieked out; and when the swordsman's hand

wandered still (for he was a novice), herself set it upon her

own neck. Perchance so great a woman could not else have been

slain (being feared of the unclean spirit) had she not herself

so willed it.



O most valiant and blessed martyrs! O truly called and elected

unto the glory of Our Lord Jesus Christ! Which glory he that magnifies,

honors and adores, ought to read these witnesses likewise, as

being no less than the old, unto the Church's edification; that

these new wonders also may testify that one and the same Holy

Spirit works ever until now, and with Him God the Father Almighty,

and His Son Jesus Christ Our Lord, to Whom is glory and power

unending for ever and ever. Amen.







From W.H. Shewring, trans.  The Passion of Perpetua and Felicity, (London: 1931). 



The translation has been modernized [not re-translated] for this etext version in the following ways:


Archaic tenses and forms have been altered.

Paragraphs have been introduced within sections to clarify

meaning. 

Some phrasing has been altered




Much of this was done with reference to Peter Dronke, Women Writers of the Middle Ages, (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1984), 2-4

