
Philemon






The Epistle of Paul to Philemon

1:1Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and 
Timothy our brother, to Philemon our beloved and fellow-worker, 1:2and 
to Apphia our sister, and to Archippus our fellow-soldier, and to the church in 
thy house: 1:3Grace to you and peace from God our 
Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 1:4I thank my God always, making mention of 
thee in my prayers, 1:5hearing of thy love, and of the faith 
which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus, and toward all the saints; 1:6that 
the fellowship of thy faith may become effectual, in the knowledge of every good 
thing which is in you, unto Christ. 1:7For I had much joy and comfort in thy 
love, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through thee, 
brother. 1:8Wherefore, though I have all boldness in 
Christ to enjoin thee that which is befitting, 1:9yet for love's sake 
I rather beseech, being such a one as Paul the aged, and now a prisoner also of 
Christ Jesus: 1:10I beseech thee for my child, whom I 
have begotten in my bonds, Onesimus, 1:11who once was unprofitable to thee, but 
now is profitable to thee and to me: 1:12whom I have sent back to thee in his 
own person, that is, my very heart: 1:13whom I would fain have kept with me, 
that in thy behalf he might minister unto me in the bonds of the gospel: 1:14but without thy mind I would do 
nothing; that thy goodness should not be as of necessity, but of free will. 1:15For perhaps he was therefore parted 
from thee for a season, that thou shouldest have him for ever; 1:16no 
longer as a servant, but more than a servant, a brother beloved, specially to 
me, but how much rather to thee, both in the flesh and in the Lord. 1:17If 
then thou countest me a partner, receive him as myself. 1:18But if he hath 
wronged the at all, or oweth thee aught, put that to mine account; 1:19I 
Paul write it with mine own hand, I will repay it: that I say not unto thee that 
thou owest to me even thine own self besides. 1:20Yea, brother, let 
me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh my heart in Christ. 1:21Having confidence 
in thine obedience I write unto thee, knowing that thou wilt do even beyond what 
I say. 1:22But withal prepare me also a lodging: 
for I hope that through your prayers I shall be granted unto you. 1:23Epaphras, my fellow-prisoner in Christ 
Jesus, saluteth thee; 1:24and so do Mark, Aristarchus, 
Demas, Luke, my fellow-workers. 1:25The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be 
with your spirit. Amen. 

