
Pliny the Younger











This is the first of a pair of documents, the letter from the magistrate Pliny the 
Younger to his emperor Trajan, asking for procedures in dealing with 
the large number of Christians who were being brought before him 
daily on charges of a) Refusing military service, b) refusing the do 
obeisance to the Emperor's Statue (about the equivalent of saluting 
the American flag or refusing to sign a Logalty Oath in the l950's), 
and c) having a strange new and secret religion which although 
harmless, seemed dangerous to the established Roman Way of Life.
This is the first reference to the "Christian Problem" in the Roman 
world, it is absolutely authentic and an apparently not-touched-up 
document. Here is the Latin text and below you will find an English 
translation.


 Lib. X, 96: C. PLINIUS TRAIANO IMPERATORI 

Sollemne est mihi, domine, omnia de quibus dubito ad te 
referre. Quis enim potest melius vel cunctationem meam 
regere vel ignorantiam instruere?
Cognitionibus de Christianis interfui numquam: ideo nescio 
quid et quatenus aut puniri soleat aut quaeri. Nec mediocriter 
haesitavi, sitne aliquod discrimen aetatum, an quamlibet 
teneri nihil a robustioribus differant; detur paenitentiae venia, 
an ei, qui omnino Christianus fuit, desisse non prosit; nomen 
ipsum, si flagitiis careat, an flagitia cohaerentia nomini 
puniantur. Interim, iis qui ad me tamquam Christiani 
deferebantur, hunc sum secutus modum. Interrogavi ipsos an 
essent Christiani. Confitentes iterum ac tertio interrogavi 
supplicium minatus; perseverantes duci iussi. Neque enim 
dubitabam, qualecumque esset quod faterentur, pertinaciam 
certe et inflexibilem obstinationem debere puniri.. 
Fuerunt alii similis amentiae, quos, quia cives Romani erant, 
adnotavi in urbem remittendos. Mox ipso tractatu, ut fieri 
solet, diffundente se crimine plures species inciderunt. 
Propositus est libellus sine auctore multorum nomina 
continens. Qui negabant esse se Christianos aut fuisse, cum 
praeeunte me deos appellarent et imagini tuae, quam propter 
hoc iusseram cum simulacris numinum afferri, ture ac vino 
supplicarent, praeterea male dicerent Christo, quorum nihil 
cogi posse dicuntur qui sunt re vera Christiani, dimittendos 
putavi. Alii ab indice nominati esse se Christianos dixerunt et 
mox negaverunt; fuisse quidem sed desisse, quidam ante 
triennium, quidam ante plures annos, non nemo etiam ante 
viginti. Hi quoque omnes et imaginem tuam deorumque 
simulacra venerati sunt et Christo male dixerunt. 
Affirmabant autem hanc fuisse summam vel culpae suae vel 
erroris, quod essent soliti stato die ante lucem convenire, 
carmenque Christo quasi deo dicere secum invicem seque 
sacramento non in scelus aliquod obstringere, sed ne furta ne 
latrocinia ne adulteria committerent, ne fidem fallerent, ne 
depositum appellati abnegarent. Quibus peractis morem sibi 
discedendi fuisse rursusque coeundi ad capiendum cibum, 
promiscuum tamen et innoxium; quod ipsum facere desisse 
post edictum meum, quo secundum mandata tua hetaerias 
esse vetueram. Quo magis necessarium credidi ex duabus 
ancillis, quae ministrae dicebantur, quid esset veri, et per 
tormenta quaerere. Nihil aliud inveni quam superstitionem 
pravam et immodicam. 
Ideo dilata cognitione ad consulendum te decucurri. Visa est 
enim mihi res digna consultatione, maxime propter 
periclitantium numerum. Multi enim omnis aetatis, omnis 
ordinis, utriusque sexus etiam vocantur in periculum et 
vocabuntur. Neque civitates tantum, sed vicos etiam atque 
agros superstitionis istius contagio pervagata est; quae videtur 
sisti et corrigi posse. Certe satis constat prope iam desolata 
templa coepisse celebrari, et sacra sollemnia diu intermissa 
repeti passimque venire carnem victimarum, cuius adhuc 
rarissimus emptor inveniebatur. Ex quo facile est opinari, quae 
turba hominum emendari possit, si sit paenitentiae locus. 

Lib. X, 97 TRAIANUS PLINIO 
Actum quem debuisti, mi Secunde, in excutiendis causis 
eorum, qui Christiani ad te delati fuerant, secutus es. Neque 
enim in universum aliquid, quod quasi certam formam habeat, 
constitui potest. Conquirendi non sunt; si deferantur et 
arguantur, puniendi sunt, ita tamen ut, qui negaverit se 
Christianum esse idque re ipsa manifestum fecerit, id est 
supplicando dis nostris, quamvis suspectus in praeteritum, 
veniam ex paenitentia impetret.
Sine auctore vero propositi libelli in nullo crimine locum 
habere debent. Nam et pessimi exempli nec nostri saeculi est. 
Sollemne est mihi, domine, omnia de quibus dubito ad te 
referre. 
Gaius Plinius to the Emperor Trajan
It is for me an important point of responsibility to refer to you 
as Head of State, things about which I have questions, since 
you are the person best able to set straight my hesitations and 
correct my lack of information.
Actually I have never been present at a Examination (cognitio) 
of Christians, so I do not know what punishment is required or 
how far it is to be carried out. Nor do I understand the legal 
grounds for a prosecution, or how stringently it is to be 
prosecuted. I am not clear about prosecutions in respect to the 
age of the persons, whether no distinction should be made 
between the young and the old, and furthermore whether a 
pardon should be granted in cases of recanting, or if there is 
no advantage for a person completely ceasing to be a Christian. 
Or is it the name "Christian" which is prosecutable, even if not 
involved in criminal actions, or is that "criminality" is 
automatically attached to the name?
In the meantime, I now handle it this way with those who are 
turned over to me as Christians. I ask them directly, in person, 
if they are Christian, I ask a second and third time to be sure, 
and indicate to them the danger of their situation. If they 
persist, I order them led dispatched (= executed). I have had 
no trouble with this, since whatever it was they admitted or 
professed, I decided that their obstinacy and unyielding 
inflexibility should be sufficient reason for punishment. Some 
others who were virtually insane with this cult, but Roman 
citizens, I sent back to Rome for trial.
As I continue with this handling of the situation, as often 
happens, the numbers and kinds of incriminations are 
becoming more widespread. An anonymous List has been 
brought out which contains the names of a great many 
persons. I decided to dismiss charges again any on this list 
who stated that they were now not, nor had ever been 
Christians, if they repeated after me a prayer of invocation to 
the Gods, and made an offering of wine and incense to your 
statue, which I had brought in to the court along with the 
statues of the Gods, for this purpose. And in addition they 
were to formally curse Christ, which I understand true 
Christians will never do. 

Other named by the anonymous List said they were 
Christians, and later changed their statement. Some said that 
they had been and then stopped, some three years before, 
some longer, some even twenty years before. All these 
reverenced your statue and those of the Gods, and cursed 
Christ. They stated that the sum total of their error or 
misjudgment, had been coming to a meeting on a given day 
before dawn, and singing responsively a hymn to Christ as to 
God, swearing with a holy oath not to commit any crime, never 
to steal or commit robbery, commit adultery, fail a sworn 
agreement or refuse to return a sum left in trust.
When all this was finished, it was their custom to go their 
separate ways, and later re-assemble to take food of an 
ordinary and simple kind. But after my edict which forbids all 
political Societies, they did in fact give this up.I thought at this 
point that it was necessary to get information from two slave 
women, whom they call Deaconesses (ministrae) about the 
actual truth, by means of torture. I found nothing worthy of 
blame other than the blind and over-wrought nature of their 
cult-superstition.

I have therefore postponed further Examinations 
(cognitiones) and made haste to come to you immediately for 
consultation. This situation seem to demand serious 
consultation, especially in view of the large number of people 
falling into this danger. A great many persons of every age, of 
every social class, men and women alike, are being brought in 
to trial, and this seems likely to continue. It is not only the 
cities, but also the towns and even the country villages which 
are being infected with this cult-contagion.

It seems possible to check and reverse this direction at this 
point, for it is quite clear that the Temples of the Gods which 
have been empty for so long, now begin to be filled again, the 
sacred rites which had lapsed are now being performed and 
flesh for sacrificial rites is now sold again at the shops, 
although for a while nobody would buy it.  So it seems 
reasonable to think that a great many people could be 
persuaded to reform, IF there were a legal procedure for 
Repentance. 

Emperor Trajan to Pliny:
You have done the right thing, my dear Pliny, in handling the 
cases of those who were brought to you under the charge of 
being Christians. But it is not possible to make hard and fast 
rule with one specific formula. These people must not be 
searched out, if they are brought before your court and the 
case against them is proved, they must be punished, but in 
the case of anyone who states that he is not a Christian and 
makes it perfectly clear that he is not, by offering prayers to 
out Gods, such a one is to be pardoned on the grounds of his 
present repentance, however suspect he may have been in 
the past. But anonymous lists must not have any place in the 
court proceedings. They are a terrible example and not at all 
in keeping with our times.

William HarrisProf. Em. Middlebury College

