
Polycarp












Polycrates 
Bishop of Ephesus.
------------

[a.d. 130-196.] This author 
  comes in as an appendix to the stories of Polycarp and Irenaeus and good 
  Anicetus, and his writings also bear upon the contrast presented by the less 
  creditable history of Victor. If, as I suppose, the appearance of our Lord to 
  St. John on "the Lord's day" was on the Paschal Sunday, it may at first seem 
  surprising that this Apostle can be claimed by Polycrates in behalf of the 
  Eastern custom to keep Easter, with the Jews, on the fourteenth day of the 
  moon. But to the Jews the Apostles became "as Jews" in all things tolerable, 
  so long as the Temple stood, and while the bishops of Jerusalem were labouring 
  to identify the Paschal Lamb with their Passover. The long survival of St. 
  John among Jewish Christians led them to prolong this usage, no doubt, as 
  sanctioned by his example. He foreknew it would quietly pass away. The wise 
  and truly Christian spirit of Irenaeus prepared the way for the ultimate 
  unanimity of the Church in a matter which lies at the base of "the Christian 
  Sabbath," and of our own observance of the first day of the week as a weekly 
  Easter. Those who in our own times have revived the observance of the Jewish 
  Sabbath, show us how much may be said on their side, 
  and elucidate the tenacity of the Easterns in resisting the abolition of the 
  Mosaic ordinance as to the Paschal, although they agreed to keep it "not with 
  the old leaven."
Our author belonged to a family in which he was the eighth Christian bishop; 
and he presided over the church of Ephesus, in which the traditions of St. John 
were yet fresh in men's minds at the date of his birth. He had doubtless known 
Polycarp, and Irenaeus also. He seems to have presided over a synod of Asiatic 
bishops (a.d. 196) which came together to consider this matter of the Paschal 
feast. It is surely noteworthy that nobody doubted that it was kept by a 
Christian and Apostolic ordinance. So St. Paul argues from its Christian 
observance, in his rebuke of the Corinthians. 
They were keeping it "unleavened" ceremonially, and he urges a spiritual 
unleavening as more important. The Christian hallowing of Pentecost connects 
with the Paschal argument. 
The Christian Sabbath hinges on these points.

From His Epistle to Victor and the 
  Roman Church Concerning the Day of Keeping the Passover. 
  
As for us, then, we scrupulously observe the exact day, 
neither adding nor taking away. For in Asia great luminaries 
have gone to their rest, who shall rise again in the day of the coming of the 
Lord, when He cometh with glory from heaven and shall raise again all the 
saints. I speak of Philip, one of the twelve apostles, 
who is laid to rest at Hierapolis; and his two daughters, who arrived at old age 
unmarried; 
his other daughter also, who passed her life 
under the influence of the Holy Spirit, and reposes at Ephesus; John, moreover, 
who reclined on the Lord's bosom, and who became a priest wearing the 
mitre, 
and a witness and a teacher-he rests at Ephesus. Then there is Polycarp, both 
bishop and martyr at Smyrna; and Thraseas from Eumenia, both bishop and martyr, 
who rests at Smyrna. Why should I speak of Sagaris, bishop and martyr, who rests 
at Laodicea? of the blessed Papirius, moreover? and of Melito the eunuch, 
who performed all his actions under the influence of the Holy Spirit, and lies 
at Sardis, awaiting the visitation 
from heaven, when he shall rise again from the dead? These all kept the passover 
on the fourteenth. day of the month, in accordance with the Gospel, 
without ever deviating from it, but keeping to the rule of faith.
Moreover I also, Polycrates, who am the least of you all, in accordance with 
the tradition of my relatives, some of whom I have succeeded-seven of my 
relatives were bishops, and I am the eighth, and my relatives always observed 
the day when the people put away 
the leaven-I myself, brethren, I say, who am sixty-five years old in the Lord, 
and have fallen in with the brethren in all parts of the world, and have read 
through all Holy Scripture, am not frightened at the things which are said to 
terrify us. For those who are greater than I have said, "We ought to obey God 
rather than men." 
...
I might also have made mention of the bishops associated with me, whom it was 
your own desire to have called together by me, and I called them together: whose 
names, if I were to write them down, would amount to a great number. These 
bishops, on coming to see me, unworthy as I am, 
signified their united approval of the letter, knowing that I wore these 
grey hairs not in vain, but have always regulated my conduct in obedience 
to the Lord Jesus.

