
Polycarp












(from: _Apostolic Fathers_, Kirsopp Lake, 1912 (Loeb Classical 
Library)) 
POLYCARP to the Philippians


CHAPTER 0 
Greeting 
1 Polycarp and the Elders with him to the Church of God sojourning in 
Philippi; mercy and peace from God Almighty and Jesus Christ our Saviour be 
multiplied to you. 


CHAPTER 1 
The hospitality of the Philippians -- Their faith 
1 I rejoice greatly with you in our Lord Jesus Christ that you have followed 
the pattern of true love, and have helped on their way, as opportunity was given 
you, those who were bound in chains, which become the saints, and are the 
diadems of those who have been truly chosen by God and our Lord. 2 I rejoice 
also that your firmly rooted faith, which was famous in past years, still 
flourishes and bears fruit unto our Lord Jesus Christ, who endured for our sins, 
even to the suffering of death, "whom God raised up, having loosed the pangs of 
Hades, 3 in whom, though you did not see him, you believed in unspeakable and 
glorified joy," -- into which joy many desire to come, knowing that "by grace ye 
are saved, not by works" but by the will of God through Jesus Christ. 


CHAPTER 2 
Exhortation to virtue -- The hope of resurrection -- The Lord's Teaching 

1 "Wherefore girding up your loins serve God in fear" and truth, putting 
aside empty vanity and vulgar error, "believing on him who raised up our Lord 
Jesus Christ from the dead and gave him glory," and a throne on his right hand, 
"to whom are subject all things in heaven and earth," whom all breath serves, 
who is coming as "the Judge of the living and of the dead," whose blood God will 
require from them who disobey him. 2 Now "he who raised him" from the dead "will 
also raise us up" if we do his will, and walk in his commandments and love the 
things which he loved, refraining from all unrighteousness, covetousness, love 
of money, evil speaking, false witness, "rendering not evil for evil, or railing 
for railing," or blow for blow, or curse for curse, 3 but remembering what the 
Lord taught when he said, "Judge not that ye be not judged, forgive and it shall 
be forgiven unto you, be merciful that ye may obtain mercy, with what measure ye 
mete, it shall be measured to you again," and, "Blessed are the poor, and they 
who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the Kingdom of God." 


CHAPTER 3 
Polycarp's reason for writing: the invitation ofthe Philippians 
1 These things, brethren, I write to you concerning righteousness, not at my 
own instance, but because you first invited me. 2 For neither am I, nor is any 
other like me, able to follow the wisdom of the blessed and glorious Paul, who 
when he was among you in the presence of the men of that time taught accurately 
and stedfastly the word of truth, and also when he was absent wrote letters to 
you, from the study of which you will be able to build yourselves up into the 
faith given you; 3 "which is the mother of us all" when faith follows, and love 
of God and Christ and neighbour goes before. For if one be in this company he 
has fulfilled the command of righteousness, for he who has love is far from all 
sin. 


CHAPTER 4 
Exhortations to virtue 
1 "But the beginning of all evils is the love of money." Knowing therefore 
that "we brought nothing into the world and we can take nothing out of it," let 
us arm ourselves with the armour of righteousness, and let us first of all teach 
ourselves to walk in the commandment of the Lord; 2 next teach our wives to 
remain in the faith given to them, and in love and purity, tenderly loving their 
husbands in all truth, and loving all others equally in all chastity, and to 
educate their children in the fear of God. 3 Let us teach the widows to be 
discreet in the faith of the Lord, praying ceaselessly for all men, being far 
from all slander, evil speaking, false witness, love of money, and all evil, 
knowing that they are the altar of God, and that all offerings are tested, and 
that nothing escapes him of reasonings or thoughts, or of "the secret things of 
the heart." 


CHAPTER 5 
Christian obligations to a virtuous life 
1 Knowing then that "God is not mocked," we ought to walk worthily of his 
commandment and glory. 2 Likewise must the deacons be blameless before his 
righteousness, as the servants of God and Christ and not of man, not slanderers, 
not double-tongued, not lovers of money, temperate in all things, compassionate, 
careful, walking according to the truth of the Lord, who was the "servant of 
all." For if we please him in this present world we shall receive from him that 
which is to come; even as he promised us to raise us from the dead, and that if 
we are worthy citizens of his community, "we shall also reign with him," if we 
have but faith. 3 Likewise also let the younger men be blameless in all things; 
caring above all for purity, and curbing themselves from all evil; for it is 
good to be cut off from the lust of the things in the world, because "every lust 
warreth against the Spirit, and neither fornicators nor the effeminate nor 
sodomites shall inherit the Kingdom of God," nor they who do iniquitous things. 
Wherefore it is necessary to refrain from all these things, and to be subject to 
the presbyters and deacons as to God and Christ. The virgins must walk with a 
blameless and pure conscience. 


CHAPTER 6 
The duties of the presbyters -- Forgiveness -- The service of God 
1 And let the presbyters also be compassionate, merciful to all, bringing 
back those that have wandered, caring for all the weak, neglecting neither widow 
nor orphan nor poor, but "ever providing for that which is good before God and 
man," refraining from all wrath, respect of persons, unjust judgment, being far 
from all love of money, not quickly believing evil of any, not hasty in 
judgment, knowing that "we all owe the debt of sin." 2 If then we pray 
the Lord to forgive us, we also ought to forgive, for we stand before the eyes 
of the Lord and of God, and "we must all appear before the judgment seat of 
Christ, and each must give an account of himself." 3 So then "let us serve him 
with fear and all reverence," as he himself commanded us, and as did the 
Apostles, who brought us the Gospel, and the Prophets who foretold the coming of 
our Lord. Let us be zealous for good, refraining from offence, and from the 
false brethren, and from those who bear the name of the Lord in hypocrisy, who 
deceive empty-minded men. 


1 The introductory formula "knowing that" renders it 
probable that these words are a quotation, but the source is 
unknown.


CHAPTER 7 
Warning against heresy 
1 "For everyone who does not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh 
is an anti-Christ"; and whosoever does not confess the testimony of the Cross is 
of the devil: and whosoever perverts the oracles of the Lord for his own lusts, 
and says that there is neither resurrection nor judgment, -- this man is the 
first-born of Satan. 2 Wherefore, 
leaving the foolishness of the crowd, and their false teaching, let us turn back 
to the word which was delivered to us in the beginning, "watching unto prayer" 
and persevering in fasting, beseeching the all-seeing God in our supplications 
"to lead us not into temptation," even as the Lord said, "The spirit is willing, 
but the flesh is weak." 


1 This phrase, according to Irenaeus (Adv. 
Haer. 3/3:4) was applied, presumably later, by Polycarp to 
Marcion.


CHAPTER 8 
Perseverance 
1 Let us then persevere unceasingly in our hope, and in the pledge of our 
righteousness, that is in Christ Jesus, "who bare our sins in his own body on 
the tree, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth," but for our 
sakes, that we might live in him, he endured all things. 2 Let us then be 
imitators of his endurance, and if we suffer for his name's sake let us glorify 
him. For this is the example which he gave us in himself, and this is what we 
have believed. 


CHAPTER 9 
The examples of the martyrs 
1 Now I beseech you all to obey the word of righteousness, and to endure with 
all the endurance which you also saw before your eyes, not only in the blessed 
Ignatius, and Zosimus, and Rufus, but also in others among yourselves, and in 
Paul himself, and in the other Apostles; 2 being persuaded that all of these 
"ran not in vain," but in faith and righteousness, and that they are with the 
Lord in the "place which is their due," with whom they also suffered. For they 
did not "love this present world" but him who died on our behalf, and was raised 
by God for our sakes. 


CHAPTER 10 
Perseverance in philanthropy and good works 
1 Stand fast therefore in these things and follow the example of the Lord, 
"firm and unchangeable in faith, loving the brotherhood, affectionate to one 
another," joined together in the truth, forestalling one another in the 
gentleness of the Lord, despising no man. 2 When you can do good defer it not, 
"for almsgiving sets free from death; be ye all subject one to the other, having 
your conversation blameless among the Gentiles," that you may receive praise 
"for your good works" and that the Lord be not blasphemed in you. 3 "But woe to 
him through whom the name of the Lord is blasphemed." Therefore teach sobriety 
to all and show it forth in your own lives. 


CHAPTER 11 
Valens -- Against avrice -- The treatment ofValens 
1 I am deeply sorry for Valens, who was once made a presbyter among you, that 
he so little understands the place which was given to him. I advise, therefore, 
that you keep from avarice, and be pure and truthful. Keep yourselves from all 
evil. 2 For how may he who cannot attain self-control in these matters enjoin it 
on another? If any man does not abstain from avarice he will be defiled by 
idolatry, and shall be judged as if he were among the Gentiles who "know not the 
judgment of God." Or do we "not know that the saints shall judge the world?" as 
Paul teaches. 3 But I have neither perceived nor heard any such thing among you, 
among whom the blessed Paul laboured, who are praised in the beginning of his 
Epistle. 
For concerning you he boasts in all the Churches who then alone had known the 
Lord, for we had not yet known him. 4 Therefore, brethren, I am deeply sorry for 
him [i.e. Valens] and for his wife, and "may the Lord grant them true 
repentance." Therefore be yourselves also moderate in this matter, and "do not 
regard such men as enemies," but call them back as fallible and straying 
members, that you may make whole the body of you all. For in doing this you 
edify yourselves. 


1 The Greek was perhaps  'tois ousin en 
arche epistolais autou', and ought to be rendered "who were his epistles in the 
beginning," with a reference to 2 Cor. 3:2.


CHAPTER 12 
The need of forgiveness -- Prayer for blessing 
1 For I am confident that you are well versed in the Scriptures, and from you 
nothing is hid; but to me this is not granted. Only, as it is said in these 
Scriptures, "Be ye angry and sin not," and "Let not the sun go down upon your 
wrath." Blessed is the man who remembers this, and I believe that it is so with 
you. 2 Now may God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the "eternal 
Priest" himself, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, build you up in faith and truth, 
and in all gentleness, and without wrath, and in patience, and in longsuffering, 
and endurance, and purity, and may he give you lot and part with his saints, and 
to us with you, and to all under heaven who shall believe in our Lord and God 
Jesus Christ and in his "Father who raised him from the dead." 3 "Pray for all 
the saints. Pray also for the Emperors," and for 
potentates, and princes, and for "those who persecute you and hate you," and for 
"the enemies of the Cross" that "your fruit may be manifest among all men, that 
you may be perfected" in him. 


1 Probably this ought to be regarded as a 
quotation from the letter of the Philippians to Polycarp.
2 "Pro regibus' is no doubt a translation of 
'huper basileon' and 'basileus' is regularly used as the title of the 
Emperor.

CHAPTER 13 
Ignatius and the Church in Syria 
1 Both you and Ignatius wrote to me that if anyone was going to Syria he 
should also take your letters. I will do this if I have a convenient 
opportunity, either myself or the man whom I am sending as a representative for 
you and me. 2 We send you, as you asked, the letters of Ignatius, which were 
sent to us by him, and others which we had by us. These are subjoined to this 
letter, and you will be able to benefit greatly from them. For they contain 
faith, patience, and all the edification which pertains to our Lord. Let us know 
anything further which you have heard about Ignatius himself and those who are 
with him. 


CHAPTER 14 
Final greetings 
1 I have written this to you by Crescens, whom I commended to you when I was 
present, and now commend again. For he has behaved blamelessly among us, and I 
believe that he will do the same with you. His sister shall be commended to you 
when she comes to you. Farewell in the Lord Jesus Christ in grace, with all who 
are yours. Amen. 

