
Ptolemy's Letter to Flora





John, the disciple of the Lord, intentionally spoke of the 
        origination of the entirety, by which the Father emitted all things. And 
        he assumes that the First Being engendered by God is a kind of 
        beginning; he has called it "Son" and "Only-Begotten God." In this (the 
        Only-Begotten) the Father emitted all things in a process involving 
        posterity. By this (Son), he says, was emitted the Word, in which was 
        the entire essence of the aions that the Word later personally formed.
        
Now since he is speaking of the first origination, he does well to 
        begin the teaching at the beginning, i.e with the Son and the Word. He 
        speaks as follows: "The Word was in the beginning, and the Word was with 
        God, and the Word was God. It was in the beginning, with God." [Jn 1:1] 
        First, he distinguishes three things: God; beginning; Word. Then he 
        unites them: this is to show forth both the emanation of the latter two, 
        i.e. the Son and the Word, and their union with one another, and 
        simultaneously with the Father. For the beginning was in the Father and 
        from the Father; and the Word was in the beginning and from the 
        beginning. Well did he say, "The Word was in the beginning", for it was 
        in the Son. "And the Word was with God." So was the beginning. "And the 
        word was God"; reasonably so, for what is engendered from God is God. 
        This shows the order of emanation. "The entirety was made through it, 
        and without it was not anything made." [Jn 1:3] For the Word became the 
        cause of the forming and origination of all the aions that came after 
        it. 
But furthermore (he says), "That which came into being in it was 
        Life."[Jn 1:4] Here he discloses a pair. For he says that the entirety 
        came into being through it, but Life is in it. Now, that which came into 
        being in it more intimately belongs to it than what came into being 
        through it: it is joined with it and through it it bears fruit. Indeed, 
        inasmuch as he adds, "and Life was the light of human beings", [Jn 1:4] 
        in speaking of human beings he has now disclosed also the Church by 
        means of a synonym, so that with a single word he might disclose the 
        partnership of the pair. For from the Word and Life, the Human Being and 
        the Church came into being. And he called Life the light of human beings 
        because they are enlightened by her, i.e. formed and made visible. Paul, 
        too, says this: "For anything that becomes visible is light." [Eph 5:13] 
        So since Life made the Human Being and the Church visible and engendered 
        them, she is said to be their light. 
Now among other things, John plainly made clear the second quartet, 
        i.e. the Word; Life; the Human Being; the Church. 
But what is more, he also disclosed the first quartet. describing the 
        Savior, now, and saying that all things outside the Fullness were formed 
        by him, he says that he is the fruit of the entire fullness. For he 
        calls him a light that "shines in the darkness" [Jn 1:5] and was not 
        overcome by it, inasmuch as after he had fitted together all things that 
        had derived from the passion they did not become acquainted with him. 
        And he calls him Son, Truth, Life, and Word become flesh. We have beheld 
        the latter's glory, he says. And its glory was like that of the Only- 
        Begotten, which was bestowed on him by the Father, "full of grace and 
        truth". [Jn 1:14] And he speaks as follows: "And the Word became flesh 
        and dwelt among us; we have beheld its glory, glory as of the 
        Only-Begotten from the Father." [Jn 1:14] So he precisely discloses also 
        the first quartet when he speaks of the Father; Grace; the 
        Only-Begotten; Truth. Thus did John speak of the first octet, the mother 
        of the entirety of aions. For he referred to the Father; Grace; the 
        Only-Begotten; Truth; the Word; Life; the Human Being; the Church. 
