
The Apocalypse of John












The Revelation to John 

1:1This is the Revelation of Jesus Christ, 
which God gave him to show to his servants the things which must happen soon, 
which he sent and made known by his angel to his servant, John, 1:2who 
testified to God's word, and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, about everything 
that he saw. 
1:3Blessed is he who reads and those who 
hear the words of the prophecy, and keep the things that are written in it, for 
the time is at hand. 
1:4John, to the seven assemblies that are 
in Asia: Grace to you and peace, from God, who is and who was and who is to 
come; and from the seven Spirits who are before his throne; 1:5and from Jesus 
Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the 
kings of the earth. To him who loves us, and washed us from our sins by his 
blood; 1:6and he made us to be a Kingdom, priests 
to his God and Father; to him be the glory and the dominion forever and ever. 
Amen. 
1:7Behold, he is coming with the clouds, 
and every eye will see him, including those who pierced him. All the tribes of 
the earth will mourn over him. Even so, Amen. 
1:8"I am the Alpha and 
the Omega,*" says the Lord God, "who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty."
1:9I John, your brother and partner with 
you in oppression, Kingdom, and perseverance in Christ Jesus, was on the isle 
that is called Patmos because of God's Word and the testimony of Jesus Christ. 
1:10I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, 
and I heard behind me a loud voice, like a trumpet 1:11saying, "*What you see, write in a book and send to the seven 
assemblies*: to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, 
and to Laodicea."
1:12I turned to see the voice that spoke 
with me. Having turned, I saw seven golden lampstands. 1:13And among the 
lampstands was one like a son of man, clothed with a robe reaching down to his 
feet, and with a golden sash around his chest. 1:14His head and his 
hair were white as white wool, like snow. His eyes were like a flame of fire. 1:15His feet were like burnished brass, as 
if it had been refined in a furnace. His voice was like the voice of many 
waters. 1:16He had seven stars in his right hand. 
Out of his mouth proceeded a sharp two-edged sword. His face was like the sun 
shining at its brightest. 1:17When I saw him, I fell at his feet like 
a dead man. 
He laid his right hand on me, saying, "Don't be afraid. I 
am the first and the last, 1:18and the Living one. 
I was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen. I have the keys of Death 
and of Hades. 1:19Write therefore the 
things which you have seen, and the things which are, and the things which will 
happen hereafter; 1:20the mystery of the 
seven stars which you saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands. The 
seven stars are the angels of the seven assemblies. The seven lampstands are 
seven assemblies. 
2:1To the angel of the 
assembly in Ephesus write: 
"He who holds the seven stars in his right hand, he who walks among the seven 
golden lampstands says these things: 
2:2"I know your works, 
and your toil and perseverance, and that you can't tolerate evil men, and have 
tested those who call themselves apostles, and they are not, and found them 
false. 2:3You have 
perseverance and have endured for my name's sake, and have* not grown weary. 2:4But I have this 
against you, that you left your first love. 2:5Remember therefore from where you have fallen, and repent and do 
the first works; or else I am coming to you swiftly, and will move your 
lampstand out of its place, unless you repent. 2:6But this you have, that you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, 
which I also hate. 2:7He who has an ear, 
let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. To him who overcomes I will 
give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the Paradise of my God. 
2:8"To the angel of the 
assembly in Smyrna write: 
"The first and the last, who was dead, and has come to life says these 
things: 
2:9"I know your works, 
oppression, and your poverty (but you are rich), and the blasphemy of those who 
say they are Jews, and they are not, but are a synagogue of Satan. 2:10Don't be afraid of 
the things which you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw 
some of you into prison, that you may be tested; and you will have oppression 
for ten days. Be faithful to death, and I will give you the crown of life. 
2:11He who has an ear, 
let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. He who overcomes won't be 
harmed by the second death. 
2:12"To the angel of 
the assembly in Pergamum write: 
"He who has the sharp two-edged sword says these things: 
2:13"I know your works 
and where you dwell, where Satan's throne is. You hold firmly to my name, and 
didn't deny my faith in the days of Antipas my witness, my faithful one, who was 
killed among you, where Satan dwells. 2:14But I have a few things against you, because you have there some 
who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to throw a stumbling block 
before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to commit 
sexual immorality. 2:15So you also have 
some who hold to the teaching of the Nicolaitans likewise*. 2:16Repent therefore, 
or else I am coming to you quickly, and I will make war against them with the 
sword of my mouth. 2:17He who has an ear, 
let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. To him who overcomes, to 
him I will give of the hidden manna, and I will give him 
a white stone, and on the stone a new name written, which no one knows but he 
who receives it. 
2:18"To the angel of 
the assembly in Thyatira write: 
"The Son of God, who has his eyes like a flame of fire, and his feet are like 
burnished brass, says these things: 
2:19I know your works, 
your love, faith, service, patient endurance, and that your last works are more 
than the first. 2:20But I have this 
against you, that you tolerate your woman, Jezebel, who 
calls herself a prophetess. She teaches and seduces my servants to commit sexual 
immorality, and to eat things sacrificed to idols. 2:21I gave her time to repent, but she refuses to repent of her sexual 
immorality. 2:22Behold, I will 
throw her into a bed, and those who commit adultery with her into great 
oppression, unless they repent of her works. 2:23I will kill her children with Death, and all the assemblies will 
know that I am he who searches the minds and hearts. I will give to each one of 
you according to your deeds. 2:24But to you I say, 
to the rest who are in Thyatira, as many as don't have this teaching, who don't 
know what some call 'the deep things of Satan,' to you I say, I am not putting 
any other burden on you. 2:25Nevertheless, hold 
firmly that which you have, until I come. 2:26He who overcomes, and he who keeps my works to the end, to him I 
will give authority over the nations. 2:27He will rule them with a rod of iron, shattering them like clay 
pots; as I also have received of my Father: 2:28and I will give him the morning star. 2:29He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the 
assemblies. 
3:1"And to the angel of 
the assembly in Sardis write: 
He who has the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars says these things: 
"I know your works, that you have a reputation of being alive, but you are 
dead. 3:2Wake up, and keep 
the things that remain, which you were about to throw away, for I have found no 
works of yours perfected before my God. 3:3Remember therefore how you have received and heard. Keep it, and 
repent. If therefore you won't watch, I will come as a thief, and you won't know 
what hour I will come upon you. 3:4Nevertheless you 
have a few names in Sardis that did not defile their garments. They will walk 
with me in white, for they are worthy. 3:5He who overcomes will be arrayed in white garments, and I will in 
no way blot his name out of the book of life, and I will confess his name before 
my Father, and before his angels. 3:6He who has an ear, 
let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. 
3:7"To the angel of the 
assembly in Philadelphia write: 
"He who is holy, he who is true, he who has the key of David, he who opens 
and no one can shut, and who shuts and no one opens, says these things: 
3:8"I know your works 
(behold, I have set before you an open door, which no one can shut), that you 
have a little power, and kept my word, and didn't deny my name. 3:9Behold, I give of 
the synagogue of Satan, of those who say they are Jews, and they are not, but 
lie. Behold, I will make them to come and worship before your feet, and to know 
that I have loved you. 3:10Because you kept my 
command to endure, I also will keep you from the hour of testing, which is to 
come on the whole world, to test those who dwell on the earth. 3:11I am coming 
quickly! Hold firmly that which you have, so that no one takes your crown. 
3:12He who overcomes, I 
will make him a pillar in the temple of my God, and he will go out from there no 
more. I will write on him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my 
God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven from my God, and my own 
new name. 3:13He who has an ear, 
let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies. 
3:14"To the angel of 
the assembly in Laodicea write: 
"The Amen, the Faithful and True Witness, the Head of God's creation, says 
these things: 3:15"I know your works, 
that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish you were cold or hot. 3:16So, because you are 
lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will vomit you out of my mouth. 3:17Because you say, 'I 
am rich, and have gotten riches, and have need of nothing;' and don't know that 
you are the wretched one, miserable, poor, blind, and naked; 3:18I counsel you to 
buy from me gold refined by fire, that you may become rich; and white garments, 
that you may clothe yourself, and that the shame of your nakedness may not be 
revealed; and eye salve to anoint your eyes, that you may see. 3:19As many as I love, 
I reprove and chasten. Be zealous therefore, and repent. 3:20Behold, I stand at 
the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, then I will 
come in to him, and will dine with him, and he with me. 3:21He who overcomes, I 
will give to him to sit down with me on my throne, as I also overcame, and sat 
down with my Father on his throne. 3:22He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the 
assemblies."
4:1After these things I looked and saw a 
door opened in heaven, and the first voice that I heard, like a trumpet speaking 
with me, was one saying, "Come up here, and I will show you the things which 
must happen after this." 
4:2Immediately I was in the Spirit. Behold, 
there was a throne set in heaven, and one sitting on the throne 4:3that 
looked like a jasper stone and a sardius. There was a rainbow around the throne, 
like an emerald to look at. 4:4Around the throne were twenty-four 
thrones. On the thrones were twenty-four elders sitting, dressed in white 
garments, with crowns of gold on their heads. 4:5Out of the throne 
proceed lightnings, sounds, and thunders. There were seven lamps of fire burning 
before his throne, which are the seven Spirits of God. 4:6Before the throne 
was something like a sea of glass, similar to crystal. In the midst of the 
throne, and around the throne were four living creatures full of eyes before and 
behind. 4:7The first creature was like a lion, and 
the second creature like a calf, and the third creature had a face like a man, 
and the fourth was like a flying eagle. 4:8The four living creatures, each one of 
them having six wings, are full of eyes around about and within. They have no 
rest day and night, saying, "Holy, holy, holy, holy, holy, 
holy, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God, the Almighty, who was and who is and 
who is to come!" 
4:9When the living creatures give glory, 
honor, and thanks to him who sits on the throne, to him who lives forever and 
ever, 4:10the twenty-four elders fall down before 
him who sits on the throne, and worship him who lives forever and ever, and 
throw their crowns before the throne, saying, 4:11"Worthy are you, 
our Lord and God, the Holy 
One, to receive the glory, the honor, and the power, for you created all 
things, and because of your desire they existed, and were created!" 
5:1I saw, in the right hand of him who sat 
on the throne, a book written inside and outside, sealed shut with seven seals. 
5:2I 
saw a mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice, "Who is worthy to open the 
book, and to break its seals?" 5:3No one in heaven above, or on the earth, 
or under the earth, was able to open the book, or to look in it. 5:4And 
I wept much, because no one was found worthy to open the book, or to look in it. 
5:5One of the elders said to me, "Don't 
weep. Behold, the Lion who is of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has 
overcome; he who opens the book and its seven seals." 5:6I saw in the midst 
of the throne and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, 
a Lamb standing, as though it had been slain, having seven horns, and seven 
eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God, sent out into all the earth. 5:7Then 
he came, and he took it out of the right hand of him who sat on the throne. 5:8Now 
when he had taken the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders 
fell down before the Lamb, each one having a harp, and golden bowls full of 
incense, which are the prayers of the saints. 5:9They sang a new 
song, saying, 
 "You are worthy to take the 
book,      And to open its seals: 
 For you were killed,      And bought 
us for God with your blood,      Out of every 
tribe, language, people, and nation, 
 5:10And made them kings and priests to our 
God,      And they reign on earth." 
5:11I saw, and I heard something like a 
voice of many angels around the throne, the living creatures, and the elders; 
and the number of them was ten thousands of ten thousands, and thousands of 
thousands; 5:12saying with a loud voice, "Worthy is 
the Lamb who has been killed to receive the power, wealth, wisdom, strength, 
honor, glory, and blessing!" 
5:13I heard every created thing which is in 
heaven, on the earth, under the earth, on the sea, and everything in them, 
saying, "To him who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb be the blessing, the 
honor, the glory, and the dominion, forever and ever! Amen!" 
5:14The four living creatures said, "Amen!" 
The *elders 
fell down and worshiped.*
6:1I saw that the Lamb opened one of the 
seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying, as with a 
voice of thunder, "Come and see!" 6:2And behold, a white horse, and he who 
sat on it had a bow. A crown was given to him, and he came forth conquering, and 
to conquer. 
6:3When he opened the second seal, I heard 
the second living creature saying, "Come!" 6:4Another came forth, 
a red horse. To him who sat on it was given power to take peace from the earth, 
and that they should kill one another. There was given to him a great sword. 
6:5When he opened the third seal, I heard 
the third living creature saying, "Come and see!" And behold, a black horse, and 
he who sat on it had a balance in his hand. 6:6I heard a voice in 
the midst of the four living creatures saying, "A choenix of wheat for a 
denarius, and three choenix of barley for a denarius! Don't damage the oil and 
the wine!" 
6:7When he opened the fourth seal, I heard 
the fourth living creature saying, "Come and see!" 6:8And behold, a pale 
horse, and he who sat on it, his name was Death. Hades followed with him. 
Authority over one fourth of the earth, to kill with the sword, with famine, 
with death, and by the wild animals of the earth was given to him. 
6:9When he opened the fifth seal, I saw 
underneath the altar the souls of those who had been killed for the Word of God, 
and for the testimony of the Lamb which they had. 6:10They cried with a 
loud voice, saying, "How long, Master, the holy and true, until you judge and 
avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?" 6:11A long white robe 
was given to each of them. They were told that they should rest yet for a while, 
until their fellow servants and their brothers, who would also 
be killed even as they were, should complete their course. 
6:12I saw when he opened the sixth seal, 
and there was a great earthquake. The sun became black as sackcloth made of 
hair, and the whole moon became as blood. 6:13The stars of the 
sky fell to the earth, like a fig tree dropping its unripe figs when it is 
shaken by a great wind. 6:14The sky was removed like a scroll when 
it is rolled up. Every mountain and island were moved out of their places. 6:15The kings of the earth, the princes, 
the commanding officers, the rich, the strong, and every slave and free person, 
hid themselves in the caves and in the rocks of the mountains. 6:16They told the mountains and the rocks, 
"Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him who sits on the throne, and from 
the wrath of the Lamb, 6:17for the great day of his wrath has 
come; and who is able to stand?" 
7:1After this, I saw four angels standing 
at the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, so that 
no wind would blow on the earth, or on the sea, or on any tree. 7:2I 
saw another angel ascend from the sunrise, having the seal of the living God. He 
cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was given to harm the 
earth and the sea, 7:3saying, "Don't harm the earth, neither 
the sea, nor the trees, until we have sealed the bondservants of our God on 
their foreheads!" 7:4I heard the number of those who were 
sealed, one hundred forty-four thousand, sealed out of every tribe of the 
children of Israel: 
 7:5Of the tribe of Judah were sealed twelve 
thousand, 
 Of the tribe of Reuben twelve thousand, 
 Of the tribe of Gad twelve thousand, 
 7:6Of the tribe of Asher twelve thousand, 
 Of the tribe of Naphtali twelve thousand, 
 Of the tribe of Manasseh twelve thousand, 
 7:7Of the tribe of Simeon twelve thousand, 
 Of the tribe of Levi twelve thousand, 
 Of the tribe of Issachar twelve thousand, 
 7:8Of the tribe of Zebulun twelve thousand, 

 Of the tribe of Joseph twelve thousand, 
 Of the tribe of Benjamin were sealed twelve thousand. 
7:9After these things I looked, and behold, 
a great multitude, which no man could number, out of every nation and of all 
tribes, peoples, and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, 
dressed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands. 7:10They cried with a 
loud voice, saying, "Salvation be to our God, who sits on the throne, and to the 
Lamb!" 
7:11All the angels were standing around the 
throne, the elders, and the four living creatures; and they fell on their faces 
before his throne, and worshiped God, 7:12saying, "Amen! Blessing, glory, wisdom, 
thanksgiving, honor, power, and might, be to our God forever and ever! Amen." 
7:13One of the elders answered, saying to 
me, "These who are arrayed in white robes, who are they, and from where did they 
come?" 
7:14I told him, "My lord, you know." 
He said to me, "These are those who came out of the great tribulation. They 
washed their robes, and made them white in the Lamb's blood. 7:15Therefore they are 
before the throne of God, they serve him day and night in his temple. He who 
sits on the throne will spread his tent over them. 7:16They will never be 
hungry, neither thirsty any more; neither will the sun beat on them, nor any 
heat; 7:17for the Lamb who is in the midst of the 
throne shepherds them, and leads them to springs of waters of life. And God will 
wipe away every tear from their eyes." 
8:1When he opened the seventh seal, there 
was silence in heaven for about half an hour. 8:2I saw the seven 
angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them. 8:3Another angel came and stood over the 
altar, having a golden censer. Much incense was given to him, that he should add 
it to the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar which was before the 
throne. 8:4The smoke of the incense, with the 
prayers of the saints, went up before God out of the angel's hand. 8:5The 
angel took the censer, and he filled it with the fire of the altar, and threw it 
on the earth. There followed thunders, sounds, lightnings, and an earthquake. 
8:6The seven angels who had the seven 
trumpets prepared themselves to sound. 8:7The first sounded, and there followed 
hail and fire, mixed with blood, and they were thrown to the earth. One third of the earth was 
burnt up, and one third of the trees were burnt up, and all green grass was 
burnt up. 
8:8The second angel sounded, and something 
like a great burning mountain was thrown into the sea. One third of the sea 
became blood, 8:9and one third of the living creatures 
which were in the sea died. One third of the ships were destroyed. 
8:10The third angel sounded, and a great 
star fell from the sky, burning like a torch, and it fell on one third of the 
rivers, and on the springs of the waters. 8:11The name of the 
star is called "Wormwood." One third of the waters became wormwood. Many people 
died from the waters, because they were made bitter. 
8:12The fourth angel sounded, and one third 
of the sun was struck, and one third of the moon, and one third of the stars; so 
that one third of them would be darkened, and the day wouldn't shine for one 
third of it, and the night in the same way. 8:13I saw, and I heard 
an eagle, flying in 
mid heaven, saying with a loud voice, "Woe! Woe! Woe for those who dwell on the 
earth, because of the other voices of the trumpets of the three angels, who are 
yet to sound!" 
9:1The fifth angel sounded, and I saw a 
star from the sky which had fallen to the earth. The key to the pit of the abyss 
was given to him. 9:2He opened the pit of the abyss, and 
smoke went up out of the pit, like the smoke from a* 
burning furnace. The sun and the air were darkened because of the smoke from the 
pit. 9:3Then out of the smoke came forth locusts 
on the earth, and power was given to them, as the scorpions of the earth have 
power. 9:4They were told that they should not hurt 
the grass of the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree, but only 
those people who don't have God's seal on their foreheads. 9:5They were given 
power not to kill them, but to torment them for five months. Their torment was 
like the torment of a scorpion, when it strikes a person. 9:6In those days people 
will seek death, and will in no way find it. They will desire to die, and death 
will flee from them. 9:7The shapes of the locusts were like 
horses prepared for war. On their heads were something like golden crowns, and 
their faces were like people's faces. 9:8They had hair like women's hair, and 
their teeth were like those of lions. 9:9They had breastplates, like breastplates 
of iron. The sound of their wings was like the sound of chariots, or of many 
horses rushing to war. 9:10They have tails like those of 
scorpions, and stings. In their tails they have power to harm men for five 
months. 9:11They have over them as king the angel 
of the abyss. His name in Hebrew is "Abaddon," but in Greek, 
he has the name "Apollyon." 9:12The first woe is past. Behold, there 
are still two woes coming after this. 
9:13The sixth angel sounded. I heard a 
voice from the horns of the golden altar which is before God, 9:14saying to the sixth angel who had one 
trumpet, "Free the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates!" 
9:15The four angels were freed who had been 
prepared for that hour and day and month and year, so that they might kill one 
third of mankind. 9:16The number of the armies of the 
horsemen was two hundred 
million. I heard the number of them. 9:17Thus I saw the horses in the vision, 
and those who sat on them, having breastplates of fiery red, hyacinth blue, and 
sulfur yellow; and the heads of lions. Out of their mouths proceed fire, smoke, 
and sulfur. 9:18By these three plagues were one third 
of mankind killed: by the fire, the smoke, and the sulfur, which proceeded out 
of their mouths. 9:19For the power of the horses is in their 
mouths, and in their tails. For their tails are like serpents, and have heads, 
and with them they harm. 9:20The rest of mankind, who were not 
killed with these plagues, didn't repent of the works of their hands, that they 
wouldn't worship demons, and the idols of gold, and of silver, and of brass, and 
of stone, and of wood; which can neither see, nor hear, nor walk. 9:21They didn't repent of their murders, 
nor of their sorceries, nor of their 
sexual immorality, nor of their thefts. 
10:1I saw a mighty angel coming down out of 
the sky, clothed with a cloud. A rainbow was on his head. His face was like the 
sun, and his feet like pillars of fire. 10:2He had in his hand a little open book. 
He set his right foot on the sea, and his left on the land. 10:3He cried with a 
loud voice, as a lion roars. When he cried, the seven thunders uttered their 
voices. 10:4When the seven thunders sounded, I was 
about to write; but I heard a voice from the sky saying, "Seal up the things 
which the seven thunders said, and don't write them." 
10:5The angel who I saw standing on the sea 
and on the land lifted up his right hand to the sky, 10:6and swore by him 
who lives forever and ever, who created heaven and the things that are in it, 
the earth and the things that are in it, and the sea and the things that are in 
it, that there will no longer be delay, 10:7but in the days of the voice of the 
seventh angel, when he is about to sound, then the mystery of God is finished, 
as he declared to his servants, the prophets. 10:8The voice which I 
heard from heaven, again speaking with me, said, "Go, take the book which is 
open in the hand of the angel who stands on the sea and on the land." 
10:9I went to the angel, telling him to 
give me the little book. 
He said to me, "Take it, and eat it up. It will make your stomach bitter, but 
in your mouth it will be as sweet as honey." 
10:10I took the little book out of the 
angel's hand, and ate it up. It was as sweet as honey in my mouth. When I had 
eaten it, my stomach was made bitter. 10:11They told me, "You must prophesy again 
over many peoples, nations, languages, and kings." 
11:1A reed like a rod was given to me. 
Someone said, "Rise, and measure God's temple, and the altar, and those who 
worship in it. 11:2Leave out the court which is outside of 
the temple, and don't measure it, for it has been given to the gentiles. They 
will tread the holy city under foot for forty-two months. 11:3I will give power 
to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy one thousand two hundred sixty days, 
clothed in sackcloth." 11:4These are the two olive trees and the 
two lampstands, standing before the Lord of the earth. 11:5If anyone desires 
to harm them, fire proceeds out of their mouth and devours their enemies. If 
anyone desires to harm them, he must be killed in this way. 11:6These have the 
power to shut up the sky, that it may not rain during the days of their 
prophecy. They have power over the waters, to turn them into blood, and to 
strike the earth with every plague, as often as they desire. 11:7When they have 
finished their testimony, the beast that comes up out of the abyss will make war 
with them, and overcome them, and kill them. 11:8Their dead bodies 
will be in the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and 
Egypt, where also their Lord was crucified. 11:9From among the 
peoples, tribes, languages, and nations people will look at their dead bodies 
for three and a half days, and will not allow their dead bodies to be laid in a 
tomb. 11:10Those who dwell on the earth rejoice 
over them, and they will be glad. They will give gifts to one another, because 
these two prophets tormented those who dwell on the earth. 11:11After the three 
and a half days, the breath of life from God entered into them, and they stood 
on their feet. Great fear fell on those who saw them. 11:12I heard a loud 
voice from heaven saying to them, "Come up here!" They went up into heaven in 
the cloud, and their enemies saw them. 11:13In that day there was a great 
earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell. Seven thousand people were killed in 
the earthquake, and the rest were terrified, and gave glory to the God of 
heaven. 11:14The second woe is past. Behold, the 
third woe comes quickly. 
11:15The seventh angel sounded, and great 
voices in heaven followed, saying, "The kingdom of the world has become the 
Kingdom of our Lord, and of his Christ. He will reign forever and ever!" 
11:16The twenty-four elders, who sit on 
their thrones before God's throne, fell on their faces and worshiped God, 11:17saying: "We give you thanks, Lord God, 
the Almighty, the one who is and who was*; 
because you have taken your great power, and reigned. 11:18The nations were 
angry, and your wrath came, as did the time for the dead to be judged, and to 
give your bondservants the prophets, their reward, as well as to the saints, and 
those who fear your name, to the small and the great; and to destroy those who 
destroy the earth." 
11:19God's temple that is in heaven was 
opened, and the ark of the Lord's covenant was seen in his temple. Lightnings, 
sounds, thunders, an earthquake, and great hail followed. 
12:1A great sign was seen in heaven: a 
woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown 
of twelve stars. 12:2She was with child. She cried out in 
pain, laboring to give birth. 12:3Another sign was seen in heaven. 
Behold, a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads 
seven crowns. 12:4His tail drew one third of the stars of 
the sky, and threw them to the earth. The dragon stood before the woman who was 
about to give birth, so that when she gave birth he might devour her child. 12:5She gave birth to a son, a male child, 
who is to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. Her child was caught up to 
God, and to his throne. 12:6The woman fled into the wilderness, 
where she has a place prepared by God, that there they may nourish her one 
thousand two hundred sixty days. 
12:7There was war in the sky. Michael and 
his angels made war on the dragon. The dragon and his angels made war. 12:8They didn't prevail, neither was a 
place found for him any more in heaven. 12:9The great dragon was thrown down, the 
old serpent, he who is called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole 
world. He was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with 
him. 12:10I heard a loud voice in heaven, 
saying, "Now is come the salvation, the power, and the Kingdom of our God, and 
the authority of his Christ; for the accuser of our brothers has been thrown 
down, who accuses them before our God day and night. 12:11They overcame him 
because of the Lamb's blood, and because of the word of their testimony. They 
didn't love their life, even to death. 12:12Therefore rejoice, heavens, and you 
who dwell in them. Woe to the earth and to the sea, because the devil has gone 
down to you, having great wrath, knowing that he has but a short time." 
12:13When the dragon saw that he was thrown 
down to the earth, he persecuted the woman who gave birth to the male child. 12:14Two wings of the great eagle were 
given to the woman, that she might fly into the wilderness to her place, so that 
she might be nourished for a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of 
the serpent. 12:15The serpent spewed water out of his 
mouth after the woman like a river, that he might cause her to be carried away 
by the stream. 12:16The earth helped the woman, and the 
earth opened its mouth and swallowed up the river which the dragon spewed out of 
his mouth. 12:17The dragon grew angry with the woman, 
and went away to make war with the rest of her seed, who keep God's commandments 
and hold Jesus' testimony. 
13:1Then I stood on the sand of the sea. I 
saw a beast coming up out of the sea, having ten horns and seven heads. On his 
horns were ten crowns, and on his heads, blasphemous names. 13:2The beast which I 
saw was like a leopard, and his feet were like those of a bear, and his mouth 
like the mouth of a lion. The dragon gave him his power, his throne, and great 
authority. 13:3One of his heads looked like it had 
been wounded fatally. His fatal wound was healed, and the whole earth marveled 
at the beast. 13:4They worshiped the dragon, because he 
gave his authority to the beast, and they worshiped the beast, saying, "Who is 
like the beast? Who is able to make war with him?" 13:5A mouth speaking 
great things and blasphemy was given to him. Authority to make war for forty-two 
months was given to him. 13:6He opened his mouth for blasphemy 
against God, to blaspheme his name, and his dwelling, those who dwell in heaven. 
13:7It was given to him to make war with 
the saints, and to overcome them. Authority over every tribe, people, language, 
and nation was given to him. 13:8All who dwell on the earth will worship 
him, everyone whose name has not been written from the foundation of the world 
in the book of life of the Lamb who has been killed. 13:9If anyone has an 
ear, let him hear. 13:10If anyone has captivity, he 
will go. If anyone is with the sword, he must be killed. Here is the 
endurance and the faith of the saints. 
13:11I saw another beast coming up out of 
the earth. He had two horns like a lamb, and he spoke like a dragon. 13:12He exercises all the authority of the 
first beast in his presence. He makes the earth and those who dwell in it to 
worship the first beast, whose fatal wound was healed. 13:13He performs great 
signs, even making fire come down out of the sky to the earth in the sight of 
people. 13:14He deceives my own people who dwell on 
the earth because of the signs he was granted to do in front of the beast; 
saying to those who dwell on the earth, that they should make an image to the 
beast who had the sword wound and lived. 13:15It was given to 
him to give breath to it, to the image of the beast, that the image of the beast 
should both speak, and cause as many as wouldn't worship the image of the beast 
to be killed. 13:16He causes all, the small and the 
great, the rich and the poor, and the free and the slave, to be given marks on 
their right hands, or on their foreheads; 13:17and that no one 
would be able to buy or to sell, unless he has that mark, the name of the beast 
or the number of his name. 13:18Here is wisdom. He who has 
understanding, let him calculate the number of the beast, for it is the number 
of a man. His number is six hundred sixty-six. 
14:1I saw, and behold, the Lamb standing on 
Mount Zion, and with him a number, one hundred forty-four thousand, having his 
name, and the name of his Father, written on their foreheads. 14:2I 
heard a sound from heaven, like the sound of many waters, and like the sound of 
a great thunder. The sound which I heard was like that of harpists playing on 
their harps. 14:3They sing a new song before the throne, 
and before the four living creatures and the elders. No one could learn the song 
except the one hundred forty-four thousand, those who had been redeemed out of 
the earth. 14:4These are those who were not defiled 
with women, for they are virgins. These are those who follow the Lamb wherever 
he goes. These were redeemed by Jesus from among men, the first fruits to God 
and to the Lamb. 14:5In their mouth was found no lie, for 
they are blameless.*
14:6I saw an angel flying in mid heaven, 
having an eternal Gospel to proclaim to those who dwell on the earth, and to 
every nation, tribe, language, and people. 14:7He said with a loud 
voice, "Fear the Lord, and give him glory; for the hour of his judgment has 
come. Worship him who made the heaven, the earth, the sea, and the springs of 
waters!" 
14:8Another, a second angel, followed, 
saying, "Babylon the great has fallen, which has made all the nations to drink 
of the wine of the wrath of her sexual immorality." 
14:9Another angel, a third, followed them, 
saying with a great voice, "If anyone worships the beast and his image, and 
receives a mark on his forehead, or on his hand, 14:10he also will drink 
of the wine of the wrath of God, which is prepared unmixed in the cup of his 
anger. He will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the holy 
angels, and in the presence of the Lamb. 14:11The smoke of their 
torment goes up forever and ever. They have no rest day and night, those who 
worship the beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name. 14:12Here is the patience of the saints, 
those who keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus." 
14:13I heard the voice from heaven saying, 
"Write, 'Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on.'" 
"Yes," says the Spirit, "that they may rest from their labors; for their 
works follow with them." 
14:14I looked, and behold, a white cloud; 
and on the cloud one sitting like a son of man, having on his head a golden 
crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle. 14:15Another angel came out from the 
temple, crying with a loud voice to him who sat on the cloud, "Send forth your 
sickle, and reap; for the hour to reap has come; for the harvest of the earth is 
ripe!" 14:16He who sat on the cloud thrust his 
sickle on the earth, and the earth was reaped. 
14:17Another angel came out from the temple 
which is in heaven. He also had a sharp sickle. 14:18Another angel came 
out from the altar, he who has power over fire, and he called with a great voice 
to him who had the sharp sickle, saying, "Send forth your sharp sickle, and 
gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for the earth's grapes are fully 
ripe!" 14:19The angel thrust his sickle into the 
earth, and gathered the vintage of the earth, and threw it into the great 
winepress of the wrath of God. 14:20The winepress was trodden outside of 
the city, and blood came out from the winepress, even to the bridles of the 
horses, as far as one 
thousand six hundred stadia.
15:1I saw another great and marvelous sign 
in the sky: seven angels having the seven last plagues, for in them God's wrath 
is finished. 15:2I saw something like a sea of glass 
mixed with fire, and those who overcame the beast, his image,* and 
the number of his name, standing on the sea of glass, having harps of God. 15:3They sang the song of Moses, the 
servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, 
 "Great and marvelous are your works, Lord God, the 
Almighty;      Righteous and true are your 
ways, you King of the nations. 
 15:4Who wouldn't fear you, 
Lord,      And glorify your name? 
 For you only are holy.      For all 
the nations will come and worship before 
you.      For your righteous acts have been 
revealed." 
15:5After these things I looked, and the 
temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened. 15:6The seven angels who had the seven 
plagues came out, clothed with pure, bright linen, and wearing golden sashes 
around their breasts. 
15:7One of the four living creatures gave 
to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God, who lives 
forever and ever. 15:8The temple was filled with smoke from 
the glory of God, and from his power. No one was able to enter into the temple, 
until the seven plagues of the seven angels would be finished. 
16:1I heard a loud voice out of the temple, 
saying to the seven angels, "Go and pour out the seven bowls of the wrath of God 
on the earth!" 
16:2The first went, and poured out his bowl 
into the earth, and it became a harmful and evil sore on the people who had the 
mark of the beast, and who worshiped his image. 
16:3The second angel poured out his bowl 
into the sea, and it became blood as of a dead man. Every living thing in the 
sea died. 
16:4The third poured out his bowl into the 
rivers and springs of water, and they became blood. 16:5I heard the angel 
of the waters saying, "You are righteous, who are and who were, you Holy One, 
because you have judged these things. 16:6For they poured out the blood of the 
saints and the prophets, and you have given them blood to drink. They deserve 
this." 16:7I heard the altar saying, "Yes, Lord 
God, the Almighty, true and righteous are your judgments." 
16:8The fourth poured out his bowl on the 
sun, and it was given to him to scorch men with fire. 16:9People were 
scorched with great heat, and people blasphemed the name of God who has the 
power over these plagues. They didn't repent and give him glory. 
16:10The fifth poured out his bowl on the 
throne of the beast, and his kingdom was darkened. They gnawed their tongues 
because of the pain, 16:11and they blasphemed the God of heaven 
because of their pains and their sores. They didn't repent of their works. 
16:12The sixth poured out his bowl on the 
great river, the Euphrates. Its water was dried up, that the way might be made 
ready for the kings that come from the sunrise. 16:13I saw coming out 
of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the 
mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits, something like frogs; 16:14for they are spirits of demons, 
performing signs; which go forth to the kings of the whole inhabited earth, to 
gather them together for the war of that great day of God, the Almighty. 
16:15"Behold, I come 
like a thief. Blessed is he who watches, and keeps his clothes, so that he 
doesn't walk naked, and they see his shame." 16:16He gathered them 
together into the place which is called in Hebrew, Megiddo. 
16:17The seventh poured out his bowl into 
the air. A loud voice came forth out of the temple of heaven, from the throne, 
saying, "It is done!" 16:18There were lightnings, sounds, and 
thunders; and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since there were men 
on the earth, so great an earthquake, so mighty. 16:19The great city was 
divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell. Babylon the great 
was remembered in the sight of God, to give to her the cup of the wine of the 
fierceness of his wrath. 16:20Every island fled away, and the 
mountains were not found. 16:21Great hailstones, about the weight of 
a talent, came down 
out of the sky on people. People blasphemed God because of the plague of the 
hail, for this plague is exceedingly severe. 
17:1One of the seven angels who had the 
seven bowls came and spoke with me, saying, "Come here. I will show you the 
judgment of the great prostitute who sits on many waters, 17:2with whom the kings 
of the earth committed sexual immorality, and those who dwell in the earth were 
made drunken with the wine of her sexual immorality." 17:3He carried me away 
in the Spirit into a wilderness. I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet-colored 
animal, full of blasphemous names, having seven heads and ten horns. 17:4The woman was dressed in purple and 
scarlet, and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having in her hand 
a golden cup full of abominations and the impurities of the sexual immorality of 
the earth. 17:5And on her forehead a name was written, 
"MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF THE PROSTITUTES AND OF THE 
ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH." 17:6I saw the woman drunken with the blood 
of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. When I saw her, I 
wondered with great amazement. 17:7The angel said to me, "Why do you 
wonder? I will tell you the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carries 
her, which has the seven heads and the ten horns. 17:8The beast that you 
saw was, and is not; and is about to come up out of the abyss and to go into 
destruction. Those who dwell on the earth and whose names have not been written 
in the book of life from the foundation of the world will marvel when they see 
that the beast was, and is not, and shall be present. 17:9Here is the mind that has wisdom. The 
seven heads are seven mountains, on which the woman sits. 17:10They are seven 
kings. Five have fallen, the one is, the other has not yet come. When he comes, 
he must continue a little while. 17:11The beast that was, and is not, is 
himself also an eighth, and is of the seven; and he goes to destruction. 17:12The ten horns that you saw are ten 
kings who have received no kingdom as yet, but they receive authority as kings, 
with the beast, for one hour. 17:13These have one mind, and they give 
their power and authority to the beast. 17:14These will war against the Lamb, and 
the Lamb will overcome them, for he is Lord of lords, and King of kings. They 
also will overcome who are with him, called and chosen and faithful." 17:15He said to me, "The waters which you 
saw, where the prostitute sits, are peoples, multitudes, nations, and languages. 
17:16The ten horns which you saw, and the 
beast, these will hate the prostitute, and will make her desolate, and will make 
her naked, and will eat her flesh, and will burn her utterly with fire. 17:17For God has put in their hearts to do 
what he has in mind, and to be of one mind, and to give their kingdom to the 
beast, until the words of God should be accomplished. 17:18The woman whom you 
saw is the great city, which reigns over the kings of the earth." 
18:1After these things, I saw another angel 
coming down out of the sky, having great authority. The earth was illuminated 
with his glory. 18:2He cried with a mighty voice, saying, 
"Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great, and she has become a habitation of demons, 
a prison of every unclean spirit, and a prison of every unclean and hateful 
bird! 18:3For all the nations have drunk of the 
wine of the wrath of her sexual immorality, the kings of the earth committed 
sexual immorality with her, and the merchants of the earth grew rich from the 
abundance of her luxury." 
18:4I heard another voice from heaven, 
saying, "Come out of her, my people, that you have no participation in her sins, 
and that you don't receive of her plagues, 18:5for her sins have 
reached to the sky, and God has remembered her iniquities. 18:6Return to her just 
as she returned, and repay her double as she did, and according to her works. In 
the cup which she mixed, mix to her double. 18:7However much she 
glorified herself, and grew wanton, so much give her of torment and mourning. 
For she says in her heart, 'I sit a queen, and am no widow, and will in no way 
see mourning.' 18:8Therefore in one day her plagues will 
come: death, mourning, and famine; and she will be utterly burned with fire; for 
the Lord God who has judged her is strong. 18:9The kings of the 
earth, who committed sexual immorality and lived wantonly with her, will weep 
and wail over her, when they look at the smoke of her burning, 18:10standing far away for the fear of her 
torment, saying, 'Woe, woe, the great city, Babylon, the strong city! For your 
judgment has come in one hour.' 18:11The merchants of the earth weep and 
mourn over her, for no one buys their merchandise any more; 18:12merchandise of 
gold, silver, precious stones, pearls, fine linen, purple, silk, scarlet, all 
expensive wood, every vessel of ivory, every vessel made of most precious wood, 
and of brass, and iron, and marble; 18:13and cinnamon, incense, perfume, 
frankincense, wine, olive oil, fine flour, wheat, sheep, horses, chariots, 
bodies, and people's souls. 18:14The fruits which your soul lusted 
after have been lost to you, and all things that were dainty and sumptuous have 
perished from you, and you will find them no more at all. 18:15The merchants of 
these things, who were made rich by her, will stand far away for the fear of her 
torment, weeping and mourning; 18:16saying, 'Woe, woe, the great city, she 
who was dressed in fine linen, purple, and scarlet, and decked with gold and 
precious stones and pearls! 18:17For in an hour such great riches are 
made desolate.' Every shipmaster, and everyone who sails anywhere, and mariners, 
and as many as gain their living by sea, stood far away, 18:18and cried out as 
they looked at the smoke of her burning, saying, 'What is like the great city?' 
18:19They cast dust on their heads, and 
cried, weeping and mourning, saying, 'Woe, woe, the great city, in which all who 
had their ships in the sea were made rich by reason of her great wealth!' For in 
one hour is she made desolate. 
18:20Rejoice over her, O heaven, you 
saints, apostles, and prophets; for God has judged your judgment on her." 18:21A mighty angel took up a stone like a 
great millstone and cast it into the sea, saying, "Thus with violence will 
Babylon, the great city, be thrown down, and will be found no more at all. 18:22The voice of harpists, minstrels, 
flute players, and trumpeters will be heard no more at all in you. No craftsman, 
of whatever craft, will be found any more at all in you. The sound of a mill 
will be heard no more at all in you. 18:23The light of a lamp will shine no more 
at all in you. The voice of the bridegroom and of the bride will be heard no 
more at all in you; for your merchants were the princes of the earth; for with 
your sorcery all the nations were deceived. 18:24In her was found 
the blood of prophets and of saints, and of all who have been slain on the 
earth." 
19:1After these things I heard something 
like a loud voice of a great multitude in heaven, saying, "Hallelujah! 
Salvation, power, and glory belong to our God: 19:2for true and 
righteous are his judgments. For he has judged the great prostitute, who 
corrupted the earth with her sexual immorality, and he has avenged the blood of 
his servants at her hand." 
19:3A second said, "Hallelujah! Her smoke 
goes up forever and ever." 19:4The twenty-four elders and the four 
living creatures fell down and worshiped God who sits on the throne, saying, 
"Amen! Hallelujah!" 
19:5A voice came forth from the throne, 
saying, "Give praise to our God, all you his servants, you who fear him, the 
small and the great!" 
19:6I heard something like the voice of a 
great multitude, and like the voice of many waters, and like the voice of mighty 
thunders, saying, "Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty, reigns! 19:7Let us rejoice and be exceedingly glad, 
and let us give the glory to him. For the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his 
wife has made herself ready." 19:8It was given to her that she would 
array herself in bright, pure, fine linen: for the fine linen is the righteous 
acts of the saints. 
19:9He said to me, "Write, 'Blessed are 
those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb.'" He said to me, 
"These are true words of God." 
19:10I fell down before his feet to worship 
him. He said to me, "Look! Don't do it! I am a fellow bondservant with you and 
with your brothers who hold the testimony of Jesus. Worship God, for the 
testimony of Jesus is the Spirit of Prophecy." 
19:11I saw the heaven opened, and behold, a 
white horse, and he who sat on it is called Faithful and True. In righteousness 
he judges and makes war. 19:12His eyes are a flame of fire, and on 
his head are many crowns. He has names written and a name written which no one 
knows but he himself. 19:13He is clothed in a garment sprinkled 
with blood. His name is called "The Word of God." 19:14The armies which 
are in heaven followed him on white horses, clothed in white, pure, fine linen. 
19:15Out of his mouth proceeds a sharp, 
double-edged sword, that with it he should strike the nations. He will rule them 
with a rod of iron. He treads the winepress of the fierceness of the wrath of 
God, the Almighty. 19:16He has on his garment and on his thigh 
a name written, "KING OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS." 
19:17I saw an angel standing in the sun. He 
cried with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that fly in the sky, "Come! Be 
gathered together to the great supper of God, 19:18that you may eat the flesh of kings, 
the flesh of captains, the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses and of 
those who sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and slave, and small 
and great." 19:19I saw the beast, and the kings of the 
earth, and their armies, gathered together to make war against him who sat on 
the horse, and against his army. 19:20The beast was taken, and with him the 
false prophet who worked the signs in his sight, with which he deceived those 
who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped his image. These 
two were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with sulfur. 19:21The rest were killed with the sword of 
him who sat on the horse, the sword which came forth out of his mouth. All the 
birds were filled with their flesh. 
20:1I saw an angel coming down out of 
heaven, having the key of the abyss and a great chain in his hand. 20:2He 
seized the dragon, the old serpent, which is the devil and Satan, who deceives 
the whole inhabited earth, and bound him for a thousand years, 20:3and cast him into the abyss, and shut 
it, and sealed it over him, that he should deceive the nations no more, until 
the thousand years were finished. After this, he must be freed for a short time. 
20:4I saw thrones, and they sat on them, 
and judgment was given to them. I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded 
for the testimony of Jesus, and for the word of God, and such as didn't worship 
the beast nor his image, and didn't receive the mark on their forehead and on 
their hand. They lived, and reigned with Christ for the thousand years. 20:5The rest of the dead didn't live until 
the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. 20:6Blessed and holy is he who has part in 
the first resurrection. Over these, the second death has no power, but they will 
be priests of God and of Christ, and will reign with him one thousand years. 
20:7And after the thousand years, Satan 
will be released from his prison, 20:8and he will come out to deceive the 
nations which are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather 
them together to the war; the number of whom is as the sand of the sea. 20:9They went up over the breadth of the 
earth, and surrounded the camp of the saints, and the beloved city. Fire came 
down out of heaven from God, and devoured them. 20:10The devil who 
deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur, where the beast and 
the false prophet are also. They will be tormented day and night forever and 
ever. 
20:11I saw a great white throne, and him 
who sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away. There was 
found no place for them. 20:12I saw the dead, the great and the 
small, standing before the throne, and they opened books. Another book was 
opened, which is the book of life. The dead were judged out of the things which 
were written in the books, according to their works. 20:13The sea gave up 
the dead who were in it. Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them. They 
were judged, each one according to his works. 20:14Death and Hades 
were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. 
20:15If anyone was not found written in the 
book of life, he was cast into the lake of fire. 
21:1I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for 
the first heaven and the first earth have passed away, and the sea is no more. 
21:2I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, 
coming down out of heaven from God, made ready like a bride adorned for her 
husband. 21:3I heard a loud voice out of heaven 
saying, "Behold, God's dwelling is with people, and he will dwell with them, and 
they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. 21:4He 
will wipe away from them every tear from their eyes. Death will be no more; 
neither will there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain, any more. The first things 
have passed away." 
21:5He who sits on the throne said, "Behold, I am making all things new." He said, "Write, for these words of God are faithful and true." 21:6He 
said to me, "It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the 
Beginning and the End. I will give freely to him who is thirsty from the spring 
of the water of life. 21:7He who overcomes, I 
will give him these things. I will be his God, and he will be my son. 21:8But for the 
cowardly, unbelieving, sinners, abominable, murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and 
all liars, their part is in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is 
the second death."
21:9One of the seven angels who had the 
seven bowls, who were loaded with the seven last plagues came, and he spoke with 
me, saying, "Come here. I will show you the wife, the Lamb's bride." 21:10He carried me away in the Spirit to a 
great and high mountain, and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out 
of heaven from God, 21:11having the glory of God. Her light was 
like a most precious stone, as if it was a jasper stone, clear as crystal; 21:12having a great and high wall; having 
twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels; and names written on them, which 
are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel. 21:13On the east were three gates; and on 
the north three gates; and on the south three gates; and on the west three 
gates. 21:14The wall of the city had twelve 
foundations, and on them twelve names of the twelve Apostles of the Lamb. 21:15He who spoke with me had for a 
measure, a golden reed, to measure the city, its gates, and its walls. 21:16The city lies foursquare, and its 
length is as great as its breadth. He measured the city with the reed, Twelve thousand twelve 
stadia. Its length, breadth, and height are equal. 21:17Its wall is one hundred forty-four 
cubits, by the measure of a man, that is, of an angel. 21:18The construction 
of its wall was jasper. The city was pure gold, like pure glass. 21:19The foundations of the city's wall 
were adorned with all kinds of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; 
the second, sapphire; 
the third, chalcedony; the fourth, emerald; 21:20the fifth, 
sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the 
ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprasus; the eleventh, jacinth; and the twelfth, 
amethyst. 21:21The twelve gates were twelve pearls. 
Each one of the gates was made of one pearl. The street of the city was pure 
gold, like transparent glass. 21:22I saw no temple in it, for the Lord 
God, the Almighty, and the Lamb, are its temple. 21:23The city has no 
need for the sun, neither of the moon, to shine, for the very glory of God 
illuminated it, and its lamp is the Lamb. 21:24The nations will 
walk in its light. The kings of the earth bring the glory and honor of the 
nations into it. 21:25Its gates will in no way be shut by 
day (for there will be no night there), 21:26and they shall bring the glory and the 
honor of the nations into it so that they may enter. 21:27There will in no 
way enter into it anything profane, or one who causes an abomination or a lie, 
but only those who are written in the Lamb's book of life. 
22:1He showed me a* 
river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God 
and of the Lamb, 22:2in the middle of its street. On this 
side of the river and on that was the tree of life, bearing twelve kinds of 
fruits, yielding its fruit every month. The leaves of the tree were for the 
healing of the nations. 22:3There will be no curse any more. The 
throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants serve him. 22:4They will see his face, and his name 
will be on their foreheads. 22:5There will be no night, and they need 
no lamp light; for the Lord God will illuminate them. They will reign forever 
and ever. 
22:6He said to me, "These words are 
faithful and true. The Lord God of the spirits of the prophets sent his angel to 
show to his bondservants the things which must happen soon." 
22:7"Behold, I come 
quickly. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book."
22:8Now I, John, am the one who heard and 
saw these things. When I heard and saw, I fell down to worship before the feet 
of the angel who had shown me these things. 22:9He said to me, "See 
you don't do it! I am a fellow bondservant with you and with your brothers, the 
prophets, and with those who keep the words of this book. Worship God." 22:10He said to me, "Don't seal up the 
words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is at hand. 22:11He who acts unjustly, let him act 
unjustly still. He who is filthy, let him be filthy still. He who is righteous, 
let him do righteousness still. He who is holy, let him be holy still." 
22:12"Behold, I come 
quickly. My reward is with me, to repay to each man according to his work. 
22:13I am the Alpha and 
the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End. 22:14Blessed are those 
who do his commandments, that they may have the right to the tree of life, and 
may enter in by the gates into the city. 22:15Outside are the dogs, the sorcerers, the sexually immoral, the 
murderers, the idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehood. 
22:16I, Jesus, have 
sent my angel to testify these things to you for the assemblies. I am the root 
and the offspring of David; the Bright and Morning Star."
22:17The Spirit and the bride say, "Come!" 
He who hears, let him say, "Come!" He who is thirsty, let him come. He who 
desires, let him take the water of life freely. 22:18I testify to 
everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book, if anyone adds to 
them, may God add to him the plagues which are written in this book. 22:19If anyone takes away from the words of 
the book of this prophecy, may God take away his part from the tree of life, and 
out of the holy city, which are written in this book. 22:20He who testifies 
these things says, "Yes, I come quickly."
Amen! Yes, come, Lord Jesus. 
22:21The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be 
with all the saints. Amen. 



Notes:
[1] back to 1:8 TR adds "the 
Beginning and the End"
[2] back to 1:8 TR omits 
"God"
[3] back to 1:11 TR adds "I 
am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last."
[4] back to 1:11 TR adds 
"which are in Asia"
[5] back to 2:3 TR adds 
"have labored and"
[6] back to 2:15 TR reads 
"which I hate" instead of "likewise"
[7] back to 2:17 Manna is 
supernatural food, named after the Hebrew for "What is it?". See Exodus 11:7-9.
[8] back to 2:20 TR, NU 
read "that" instead of "your"
[9] back to 4:8 TR and NU 
read "holy" 3 times instead of 9.
[10] back to 4:11 TR omits 
"and God, the Holy One,"
[11] back to 5:13 TR omits 
"Amen!"
[12] back to 5:14 TR adds 
"twenty-four"
[13] back to 5:14 TR adds 
"the one living forever and ever"
[14] back to 6:6 A choenix is 
a dry volume measure that is a little more than a litre (a little more than a 
quart).
[15] back to 6:11 The word 
for "brothers" here and where context allows may also be correctly translated 
"brothers and sisters" or "siblings."
[16] back to 8:7 TR omits 
"One third of the earth was burnt up"
[17] back to 8:13 TR reads 
"angel" instead of "eagle"
[18] back to 9:2 TR adds 
"great"
[19] back to 9:11 "Abaddon" 
is a Hebrew word that means ruin, destruction, or the place of destruction
[20] back to 9:11 "Apollyon" 
means "Destroyer."
[21] back to 9:16 literally, 
"ten thousands of ten thousands"
[22] back to 9:21 The word 
for "sorceries" (pharmakeia) also implies the use of potions, poisons, and drugs
[23] back to 11:17 TR adds 
"and who is coming"
[24] back to 13:10 TR reads 
"If anyone leads into captivity, into captivity he goes. If anyone will kill 
with the sword, he must be killed with a sword." instead of "If anyone has 
captivity, he goes away. If anyone is with the sword, he must be killed."
[25] back to 14:5 TR adds 
"before the throne of God"
[26] back to 14:20 1600 
stadia = 296 kilometers or 184 miles
[27] back to 15:2 TR adds 
"his mark,"
[28] back to 16:21 1 talent 
is about 34 kilograms or 75 pounds
[29] back to 17:8 TR reads 
"yet is" instead of "shall be present"
[30] back to 19:17 TR reads 
"supper of the great God" instead of "great supper of God"
[31] back to 21:8 The word 
for "sorcerers" here also includes users of potions and drugs.
[32] back to 21:16 12,012 
stadia = or 2,221 kilometers or 1,380 miles. TR reads 12,000 stadia instead of 
12,012 stadia.
[33] back to 21:17 144 
cubits is about 65.8 meters or 216 feet
[34] back to 21:19 or, 
lapis lazuli
[35] back to 22:1 TR adds 
"pure" 


[Index]   [Home]   [Report typo]
HTML generated 21 July 2001. 5479 visits since 10 March 2001. 


