
Fragments of Rhodon











Rhodon.
------------

[a.d. 180.] This Rhodon 
  was supposed by St. Jerome to have been the author of the work against the 
  Cataphrygians, ascribed to Asterius Urbanus more probably. 
  Eusebius 
  gives us the fragment from his work against Marcion, addressed to Callistion, 
  which is here translated. He tells us that he was a pupil of Tatian, and 
  expresses an intention of furnishing original solutions of Scriptural problems 
  sated by Tatian, 
  and by that author explained in a manner apparently unsatisfactory. He also 
  appears to have written against the blasphemous Apelles, 
  whose Hexaëmeron was an attempt to refute Moses; but whether he also 
  fulfilled his promise concerning an 'Epi/lusij of 
  Tatian's Problems (or Questions), seems doubtful. Routh has devoted to the 
  fragment here translated six pages of notes, 
  which he subjoins to the Greek text (of Eusebius) and a Latin version of the 
  same.
Wherefore also they 
disagree among themselves, maintaining as they do an opinion which has no 
consistency with itself. For one of their herd, Apelles, who prides himself on 
the strictness of his life, 
and on his age, admits that there is only one first principle, 
yet says that the prophecies have come from an opposing spirit, in which 
opinion he is influenced by the responses of a soothsaying 
maid named Philumene. But others, among whom are Potitus and Basilicus, like 
Marcion 
himself, introduce two first principles. These men, following the Pontic wolf, 
and not being able to discover any more than he the division of things, have had 
to recourse to rash assertion, and declared the existence of two first 
principles simply and without proof. Others of them, again, drifting from 
bad to worse, assume not two only, but even three natures. Of these men the 
leader and champion is Syneros, as those who adopt his teaching say....
For the old man Apelles entered into conversation with us, and was convicted 
of uttering many false opinions. For example, he asserted that men should on no 
account examine into their creed, 
but that every one ought to continue to the last in the belief he has once 
adopted. For he declared that those who had rested their hope on the Crucified 
One would be saved, provided only they were found living in the practice, of 
good works. But the most perplexing of all the doctrines laid down by him was, 
as we have remarked before, what he said concerning God: for he affirmed that 
there was only one first principle, precisely as our own faith 
teaches....
On asking him, "Where do you get proof of this? or how are you able to assert 
that there is only one first principle? tell us,"-he said that the 
prophecies refuted themselves, because they had uttered nothing at all that was 
true: for that they were discordant and false, and self-contradictory. As to the 
question, "How does it appear that there is one first principle? "he said he 
could not tell, only he was impelled to that belief. On my thereupon conjuring 
him to speak the truth, he solemnly declared that he was expressing his real 
sentiments; and that he did not know" how" there could be one uncreated God, but 
that he believed the fact. Here I burst into laughter and rebuked him, because 
he professed to be a teacher, and yet was unable to confirm by arguments 
what he taught.

