
Secret Mark











Letter of Clement of Alexandria on Secret Mark

Translated by Morton Smith.



From the letters of the most holy Clement, the author of the Stromateis.
To Theodore.

You did well in silencing the unspeakable teachings of the Carpocrations.
For these are the "wandering stars" referred to in the prophecy, who
wander from the narrow road of the commandments into a boundless abyss of
the carnal and bodily sins. For, priding themselves in knowledge, as they
say, "of the deep things of Satan", they do not know that they are
casting themselves away into "the nether world of the darkness" of
falsity, and boasting that they are free, they have become slaves of servile
desires. Such men are to be opposed in all ways and altogether. For, even
if they should say something true, one who loves the truth should not, even
so, agree with them. For not all true things are the truth, nor should that
truth which merely seems true according to human opinions be preferred to
the true truth, that according to the faith.

Now of the things they keep saying about the divinely inspired Gospel according
to Mark, some are altogether falsifications, and others, even if they do
contain some true elements, nevertheless are not reported truly. For the
true things, being mixed with inventions, are falsified, so that, as the
saying goes, even the salt loses its savor.

As for Mark, then, during Peter's stay in Rome he wrote an account of the
Lord's doings, not, however, declaring all of them, nor yet hinting at the
secret ones, but selecting what he thought most useful for increasing the
faith of those who were being instructed. But when Peter died a martyr, Mark
came over to Alexandria, bringing both his own notes and those of Peter,
from which he transferred to his former book the things suitable to whatever
makes for progress toward knowledge. Thus he composed a more spiritual Gospel
for the use of those who were being perfected. Nevertheless, he yet did not
divulge the things not to be uttered, nor did he write down the hierophantic
teaching of the Lord, but to the stories already written he added yet others
and, moreover, brought in certain sayings of which he knew the interpretation
would, as a mystagogue, lead the hearers into the innermost sanctuary of
that truth hidden by seven veils. Thus, in sum, he prepared matters, neither
grudgingly nor incautiously, in my opinion, and, dying, he left his composition
to the church in 1, verso Alexandria, where it even yet is most carefully
guarded, being read only to those who are being initiated into the great
mysteries.

But since the foul demons are always devising destruction for the race of
men, Carpocrates, instructed by them and using deceitful arts, so enslaved
a certain presbyter of the church in Alexandria that he got from him a copy
of the secret Gospel, which he both interpreted according to his blasphemous
and carnal doctrine and, moreover, polluted, mixing with the spotless and
holy words utterly shameless lies. From this mixture is drawn off the teaching
of the Carpocratians.

To them, therefore, as I said above, one must never give way; nor, when they
put forward their falsifications, should one concede that the secret Gospel
is by Mark, but should even deny it on oath. For, "Not all true things
are to be said to all men". For this reason the Wisdom of God, through
Solomon, advises, "Answer the fool from his folly", teaching that
the light of the truth should be hidden from those who are mentally blind.
Again it says, "From him who has not shall be taken away", and "Let
the fool walk in darkness". But we are "children of Light", having
been illuminated by "the dayspring" of the spirit of the Lord "from
on high", and "Where the Spirit of the Lord is", it says, "there
is liberty", for "All things are pure to the pure".

To you, therefore, I shall not hesitate to answer the questions you have
asked, refuting the falsifications by the very words of the Gospel. For example,
after "And they were in the road going up to Jerusalem" and what follows,
until "After three days he shall arise", the secret Gospel brings
the following material word for word:

"And they come into Bethany. And a certain woman whose brother had died
was there. And, coming, she prostrated herself before Jesus and says to him,
'Son of David, have mercy on me.' But the disciples rebuked her. And Jesus,
being angered, went off with her into the garden where the tomb was, and
straightway a great cry was heard from the tomb. And going near, Jesus rolled
away the stone from the door of the tomb. And straightaway, going in where
the youth was, he stretched forth his hand and raised him, seizing his hand.
But the youth, looking upon him, loved him and began to beseech him that
he might be with him. And going out of the tomb, they came into the house
of the youth, for he was rich. And after six days Jesus told him what to
do, and in the evening the youth comes to him, wearing a linen cloth over
his naked body. And he remained with him that night, for Jesus taught him
the mystery of the Kingdom of God. And thence, arising, he returned to the
other side of the Jordan."

After these words follows the text, "And James and John come to him",
and all that section. But "naked man with naked man," and the other
things about which you wrote, are not found.

And after the words, "And he comes into Jericho," the secret Gospel
adds only, "And the sister of the youth whom Jesus loved and his mother
and Salome were there, and Jesus did not receive them." But the many
other things about which you wrote both seem to be, and are, falsifications.

Now the true explanation, and that which accords with the true philosophy
...

