
The Paraphrase of Shem











Translated by Frederik Wisse

[The] paraphrase which was about the unbegotten Spirit.

What Derdekea< s> revealed to me, Shem, 5 according to the will of 
the Majesty. My thought which was in my body snatched me away from my race. It 
took me up to the top of the world, 10 which is close to the light 
that shone upon the whole area there. I saw no earthly likeness, but there was 
light. And my thought separated 15 from the body of darkness as 
though in sleep.
I 
heard a voice saying to me, Shem, since you are from an unmixed power 20
and you are the first being upon the earth, hear and understand what I 
shall say to you first concerning the great powers who were in existence in the 
beginning, before 25 I appeared. There was Light and Darkness and 
there was Spirit between  them. Since your root fell into 
forgetfulness – he who was 30 the unbegotten Spirit – I reveal to you 
the truth about the powers. The Light was thought full of hearing and word. They 
were 35 united into one form. And the Darkness was 2 wind in 
waters. He possessed the mind  wrapped in a chaotic fire. And the Spirit between 
them 5 was a gentle, humble light. These are the three roots. They 
reigned each in them­selves, alone. And they covered each other, each one with
10 its power.

But the Light, since he possessed a great power, knew the abase­ment of the 
Darkness and his disorder, namely that the root was not straight. 15 
But the crookedness of the Darkness was lack of per­ception, namely (the 
illusion that) there is no one above him. And as long as he was able to bear up 
under his evil, he was covered with the water. And he 20 stirred. And 
the Spirit was frightened by the sound. He lifted himself up to his station. And 
he saw a great, dark water. And he was nauseated. And 25 the thought 
of the Spirit stared down; he saw the infinite Light. But he was overlooked by 
the putrid root. And by the will of the great Light 30 the dark water 
separated. And the Darkness came up wrapped in vile ignorance, and (this was) in 
order that the mind might separate from him because he prided 35 
himself in it.

And when he stirred, 3 the light of the Spirit appeared to him. When he 
saw it he was astonished. He did not know that another Power was above him. And 
when he 5 saw that his likeness was dark compared with the Spirit, he 
felt hurt. And in his pain he lifted up to the height of the members of Darkness 
his mind which 10 was the eye of the bitterness of evil. He caused 
his mind to take shape in a member of the regions of the Spirit, thinking that, 
by staring (down) at his evil, he would be able 15 to equal the 
Spirit. But he was not able. For he wanted to do an impossible thing, and it did 
not take place. But in order that the mind of Darkness, which 20 is 
the eye of the bitterness of evil, might not be destroyed, since he was made 
par­tially similar, he arose and shone with a fiery light upon all of Ha­des, so 
that 25 the equality to the faultless Light might become ap­parent. 
For the Spirit made use of every form of Darkness because he appeared in his 
majesty. 30

And the exalted, infinite Light appeared, for he was very joyful.
He 
wished to reveal himself to the Spirit. And the likeness 35 of the 
exalted Light appeared to the unbegotten Spirit. 4  appeared. [I] am the 
son of the incorruptible, infinite Light.  appeared in the likeness 5 of the 
Spirit, for  am the ray of the universal Light. And his ap­pearance to me (was) 
in order that the mind of Darkness might not remain in Hades. 10 For 
the Darkness made himself like his mind in a part of the members. When , (O) 
Shem, appeared   in it (i.e. the like­ness), in order that the 
Darkness might become dark to himself, 15 ac­cording to the will of 
the Majesty – in order that the Darkness might become free from every aspect of 
the power which he possessed – the 
mind drew the chaotic fire, with which 20 it was covered, from the 
midst of the Darkness and the water. And from the Darkness the water became a 
cloud. and from  the cloud the womb took shape. 25 The 
chaotic fire which was a deviation  went there.

And when the Darkness saw it (i.e. the womb) he became unchaste and when he had 
aroused 30 the water, he rubbed the womb. His mind dissolved down to 
the depths of Nature. It mingled with the power of the bitterness of Darkness. 
And 35 her (i.e. the womb's) eye ruptured at the wickedness in order 
that she might not again bring forth the mind. For it was 5 a seed of 
Nature from the dark root.

And when Nature had taken to herself the mind by means of the dark power, 5
every likeness took shape in her. And when the Darkness  had acquired the 
likeness of the mind, it resembled the Spirit. For Nature rose up to expel it;
10 she was powerless against it, since she did not have a form from 
the Darkness. For she brought it forth in the cloud. And the cloud shone. A mind 
appeared in 15 it like a frightful, harmful fire. It (i.e. the mind) 
collided against the unbegotten Spirit
since 
it possessed a likeness from him. In order that 20 Nature might 
become empty of the chaotic fire, then immediately Nature  was 
divided into four parts. They became clouds which varied 25 in their 
appearance. They were called Hymen, Afterbirth, Power, (and) Water. And the 
Hymen and the Afterbirth and the Power were 30 chaotic fires. And it 
(i.e. the mind) was drawn from the midst of the Darkness and the water – since 
the mind was in the midst of Nature

and the dark power – 35 in order that the harmful waters might not 
cling to it. 6 Because of this Nature was divided, according to my will, 
in order that the mind may return to its power which the 5 dark root, 
which was mixed with it (i.e. the mind), had taken from it. And he (i.e. the 
dark root) appeared in the womb. And at the division of Nature he separated from 
the dark power 10 which he possessed from the mind. It (i.e. the 
mind) went into the midst of the power – this was the middle region of Nature.

And the Spirit of light, when the mind 15 burdened him, was 
aston­ished. And the force of his Astonishment cast off the burden. And it (i.e. 
the burden)  returned to its heat. It put on the light of the Spirit.
20 And when Nature moved away from the power of the light of the 
Spirit, the burden returned. And the Astonishment (of the) light cast off the 
burden. It stuck 25 to the cloud of the Hymen. And all the clouds of 
Darkness cried out, they who had separated from Hades, because of the alien 
Power. He is the Spirit of light who has come 30 in them. And by the 
will of the Majesty the Spirit gazed up at the in­finite Light, in order that 
his light may be pitied and 35 the likeness brought up from Hades.

And when the Spirit had looked,  flowed 7 out – , the son of the Majesty 
– like a wave of bright light and like a whirlwind of the immortal Spirit. And  
blew from 5 the cloud of the Hymen upon the As­tonishment of the 
unbegotten Spirit. It (i.e. the cloud) separated and cast light upon the clouds. 
These separated in order that the Spirit might return. Because of this the mind
10 took shape. Its repose was shat­tered. For the Hymen of Nature was 
a cloud which cannot be grasped; it is a great fire. Similarly, the Afterbirth
15 of Nature is the cloud of silence; it is an august fire. And the 
Power which was mixed with the mind, it, too, was a cloud of Nature which 
20 was joined with the Darkness that had aroused Nature to unchastity. And 
the dark water was a frightful cloud. And the root 25 of Nature, 
which was below, was crooked, since it is burdensome and harmful. The root was 
blind with respect to the light-bondage which was un­fathomable since 30
it had many appearances.

And  had pity on the light (of) the Spirit which the mind had re­ceived.  
returned to my position in order to pray 35 to the exalted, in­finite 
Light 8 that the power of the Spirit might increase on the place and 
might be filled without dark defilement. And 5 reverently  said, 
"Thou art the root of the Light. Thy hidden form has appeared, O exalted, 
infinite one. May the whole power of 10 the Spirit spread and may it 
be filled with its light, O infinite Light. (Then) he will not be able to join 
with the unbegotten Spirit, and the power of the Aston­ishment will not be able 
to 15 mix with Nature. According to the will of the Majesty," my 
prayer was accepted.

And the voice of the Word was heard saying through the Majesty to the 20
unbegotten Spirit, "Behold, the power has been completed. He 
who was revealed by me appeared in the Spirit. Again I shall appear. I am 
Derdekeas, the son 25 of the incorruptible, infinite Light."

The light of the infinite Spirit came down to a feeble nature for a short time 
until 30 all the impurity of nature became void, and in or­der that 
the darkness of Nature might be blamed. I put on my gar­ment which is the 
garment of the light 35 of the Majesty – which I am.
I 
came in the appearance of the 9 Spirit to consider the whole light which 
was in the depths of the Darkness. According to the will  of the 
Majesty, in order that the Spirit 5 by means of the Word might be 
filled with his light independently of the power of the infinite Light, and at 
my wish, the Spirit  arose by his (own) power. 10 His 
greatness was granted to him that he might be filled with his whole light and 
depart from the whole burden of the Darkness. For what was behind was a dark 
fire which blew 15 (and) pressed on the Spirit. And the Spirit 
re­joiced because he was protected from the frightful water. But his light was 
not equal to the Majesty. But <what> he was granted 20 by the 
infinite Light, (he was granted it) in order that in all his members he might 
appear as a single image of light. And when the Spirit arose above the water,
25 his black likeness became apparent. And the Spirit honored the 
exalted Light: "Surely thou alone art the infinite one, because thou art above
30 every unbegotten thing, for thou hast protected me from the 
Darkness. And at thy wish I arose above the power of darkness.

And that nothing might be hidden from you, Shem, the thought, 35 
which the Spirit from the greatness had contemplated, came into be­ing, 10
since the Darkness was not able [to] restrain his evil. But when it 
appeared, the three roots became known as they 5 were from the 
beginning. If the Darkness had been able to bear up under his evil, the mind 
would not have separated from him, and another power would not have appeared.
10
But 
from the time it appeared I was seen, the son of the Majesty, in order that the 
light of the Spirit might not become faint, and that Nature might not reign 
15 over it, because it gazed at me. And by the will of the greatness 
 my equality was revealed, that what is of the Power might
become apparent. You 20 are the great Power which came into being, 
and I am the perfect Light which is above the Spirit and the Darkness, the one 
who puts to shame the Darkness for the intercourse of the impure 25 
practice. For through the division of Na­ture the Majesty wished to be covered 
with honor up to the height of the Thought of the Spirit. And the Spirit 
received 30 rest in his power.

 For the image of the Light is inseparable from the unbegotten Spirit. And the 
lawgivers did not name him after all the clouds 35 of Nature, nor is 
it possible to name them. For every likeness 11 into which Nature had 
divided is a power of the chaotic fire which is the hylic seed. The one who took 
to himself 5 the power of the Darkness impris­oned it in the midst of 
its members.

And by the will of the Majesty, in order that the mind and the whole light of 
the Spirit might be protected 10 from every burden and (from) the 
toil of Nature, a voice came forth from the Spirit to the cloud of the Hymen. 
And the light of the astonishment began to re­joice with the voice 15 
which was granted to him. And the great Spirit of light was in the cloud of the 
Hymen. He honored the infinite Light and the universal likeness 20 
who I am, the son of the Majesty. It is said: "Anasses Duses, thou art the 
infinite Light who was given by the will 25 of the Majesty to 
establish every light of the Spirit upon the place, and to separate the mind 
from the Darkness. For it was not right 30 for the light of the 
Spirit to remain in Hades. For at thy wish the Spirit arose to behold thy 
greatness."

For I said these things to you, 35 Shem, that you might know 12 
that my likeness, the son of the Majesty, is from my infinite Thought, since I 
am for him a universal likeness 5 which does not lie, (and) I am 
above every truth and origin of the word. His appearance is in my beautiful 
garment of light which is the voice of the immeasurable Thought. 10 
We are that single, sole light which came into being. He appeared in another 
root in order that the power of the Spirit might be raised from the 15
feeble Nature. For by the will of the great Light I came forth from the 
exalted Spirit down to the cloud of the Hymen without my universal garment.

And the Word took 20 me to himself, from the Spirit, in the first 
cloud of the Hymen of Nature. And I put on this of which the Majes­ty and the 
unbegotten Spirit made me worthy. 25 And the threefold unity of my 
garment appeared in the cloud, by the will of the Majesty, in a single form. And 
my likeness was covered 30 with the light of my garment. And the 
cloud was disturbed, and it was not able to bear my likeness. It shed the first 
power, the one (which) it had taken from 35 the Spirit, that one 
which shone on him from the beginning, before (I) appeared in the word to the 
Spirit. The cloud 13 would not have been able to bear both of them. And 
the light which came forth from the cloud passed through the silence, until it 
came into the middle region. And, 5 by the will of the Majesty, the 
light mixed with him I (i.e.) the Spirit which exists in 
the silence, he who had been separated from the Spirit of light. It was 
separated from the light 10 by the cloud of the silence. The cloud 
was disturbed. It was he who gave rest to the flame of fire. He humbled the dark 
womb in order that she might not reveal 15 other seed from the 
darkness. He kept them back in the middle region of Nature in their position 
which was in the cloud. They were troubled since they did 20 not know 
where they were. For still they (did> not possess the universal understand­ing 
of the Spirit.

And when I prayed to the Majesty, toward the 25 infinite Light, that 
the chaotic power of the Spirit might go to and fro, and the dark womb might be 
idle, and that my likeness might appear 30 in the cloud of the Hymen, 
as if I were wrapped in the light of the Spirit which went before me, and by the 
will of the Majesty and through 35 the prayer I came in the cloud in 
order that through my garment –  which was from the power 14 of the 
Spirit – the pleroma of the word, might bring power to the members who possessed 
it in the Darkness. For because of them I appeared 5 in this 
insignificant place. For I am a helper of every one who has been given a name. 
For when I ap­peared in the cloud, the light 10 of the Spirit began 
to save itself from the frightful water, and (from) the clouds of fire which had 
been separated from dark Nature. And I gave them eternal honor 35 
that they might not again engage in the impure practice.

And the light which was in the Hymen was disturbed by my power, and it passed 
through my middle region. It 20 was filled with the uni­versal 
Thought. And through the word of the light of the Spirit it re­turned to  its 
repose. It received form in its root and shone 25 without deficiency. 
And the light which had come forth with it from the silence went in the middle 
region  and returned to the place. And the cloud shone. 30 
And from it came an unquenchable fire. And the part which separated from the 
astonishment put on forgetfulness. It was deceived by 35 the fire of 
darkness. And the shock of its astonishment cast off the burden of the 15 
cloud. It was evil since it was unclean. And the fire mixed with the water in 
order that the waters might become harmful. 5

And Nature which had been disturbed immediately arose from the idle waters. For 
her ascent was shameful. And Nature took to herself the 10 power of 
fire. She became strong because of the light of the Spirit which was in Nature. 
Her likeness appeared in the water in the form of a frightful beast 35
with many faces, which is crooked below. A light went down to chaos filled 
with mist and dust, in order to harm Nature. 20 And the light of the 
Astonishment which is in the middle region came to it after he cast off the 
burden of the Darkness. He rejoiced when the Spirit arose. For he looked 25
from the clouds down at the dark waters upon the light which was in the 
depths of Nature.

Therefore I appeared that I might 30 get an opportunity to go down to 
the nether world, to the light of the Spirit which was burden­ed, that I might 
protect him from the evil of the burden. And through 35 his looking 
down at the dark region the light once more 16 came up in order that the 
womb might again come up from the water. She (i.e. the womb) came up by my will. 
Guilefully the eye opened. 5 And the light which had appeared in the 
middle region (and) which had separated from the Astonishment rested and shone 
upon her. And the womb saw 10 things she had not seen, and she 
rejoiced joyful­ly in the light, although this was not hers — the one which 
appeared in the middle region, in her wickedness, when he (i.e. the light) shone 
15 upon her. And the womb saw things she had not seen, and she was brought down 
to the water, she was thinking that she had reached to the power of light. 
20 And she did not know that her root was made idle by the likeness of the 
Light, and that it was to her (i.e. the root) that he had run.

The light was astonished, the one which was in 25 the middle region 
and which was beginning and end. Therefore his thought gazed di­rectly up at the 
exalted Light. And he called out and said, 20 "Lord, have mercy on 
me, for my light and my effort went astray. For if thy goodness does not 
establish me, I do not know where I am." And when the Majesty 35 had 
heard him, he had mercy on him. '

And I appeared in the cloud of the Hymen, in the silence, 17 with­out my 
holy garment. With my will I honored my garment which has three forms in the 
cloud of the Hymen. 5 And the light which was in the silence, the one 
from the rejoicing Power, contained me. I wore it. And its two parts appeared
10 in a single form. Its other parts did not appear on account of the 
fire. I became unable to speak in the cloud of the Hymen, for its fire was 
frightful, 15 lifting itself up with­out humility. And in order that 
my greatness and the word might appear, I placed likewise my other garment in 
the cloud of the silence. 20 I went into the middle region and put on 
the light that was in it, that was sunk in forgetfulness and that was separated 
from the Spirit of astonishment, for he had cast off the burden. 25 
At my wish nothing mortal appeared to him, but they were all immortal things 
which the Spirit granted to him. And he said in 30 the thought of the 
Light, ai eis ai ou phar dou is ei ou: I have come in a great rest  in 
order that he may give rest to my light in 35 his root, and may bring 
it out of 18 harmful Nature.

Then, by the will of the Majesty, I took off my garment of light. I put on 
another garment 5 of fire which has no form, which is from the mind 
of the power,  which was separated, and which was  prepared for me, 
according to my will, in the middle region. For the middle region 30 
covered it with a dark power in order that I might come and put it on. I went 
down to chaos to save the whole light from it. For without 15 the 
power of darkness I could not oppose  Nature. But I rested myself upon her 
staring eye 20 which was a light from the Spirit. For it had been 
prepared for me as a garment and a rest by the Spirit. Through me he opened his 
eyes down to 25 Hades. He granted Nature his voice for a time. '

And my garment of fire, according to the will of the Majesty, went down to what 
is strong, and to the 30 unclean part of Nature which (the) power of 
darkness was covering. And my garment rubbed Na­ture in her covering. And her 
unclean 35 femininity was strong. And the wrathful womb came up 19 
and made the mind dry, resembling a fish which has a drop of fire and a power of 
fire. And when Nature 5 had cast off the mind, she was troubled and 
she wept. When she was hurt, and in her tears, she cast off the power of the 
Spirit 30 (and) remained as I. I put on the light of the Spirit and I rested 
with my garment on account of  the sight of the fish.

And in order that  the deeds of Nature might be condemned, 15
since she is blind, manifold animals came out of her, in accordance with 
the number of the fleeting winds. All of them came into being in Hades searching 
for the light 20 of the mind which took shape. They were not able to 
stand up against it.  I rejoiced over their ignorance. I 
They found me, the son of the Majesty, in 25 front of the womb which 
has many forms. I put on the beast, and laid before her a great request

that heaven and earth 30 might come into being, in order that the 
whole light might rise up. For in no other way could the power of the Spirit be 
saved from bondage except that I appear 35 to her in animal form. 
Therefore she was gracious to me 20 as if I were her son.

And on account of my request, Nature arose since she possesses of the power of 
the Spirit and the Darkness 5 and the fire. For she had taken off her 
forms. When she had cast it off, she blew upon the water. The heaven was 
created. And from the foam of the heaven 10 the earth came into 
being. And at my wish it brought forth all kinds of food in accordance with the 
number of the beasts. And it brought forth dew from the winds on account of you 
(pl.) and those 15 who will be begotten the second time upon the 
earth. For the earth pos­sessed a power of chaotic fire. Therefore it brought 
forth 20 every seed.

And when the heaven and the earth were created, my garment of fire arose in the 
midst of the cloud of Nature (and) shone upon the whole world 25 
until Nature became dry. The Darkness which was its (i.e. the earth's) garment 
was cast into the  harmful waters. The mid­dle region was cleansed 
from the Darkness. 30 But the womb grieved be­cause of what had 
happened. She perceived in her parts what was  water like a mirror. When she 
perceived (it), she wondered 25 how it had come into being. Therefore 
she remained a widow. It also was 21 astonished (that) it was not in her. 
For still the forms possessed a power of fire and light. It (i.e. the power) 
remained 5 in order that it might be in Nature until all the powers 
are taken away from her. For just as the light of the Spirit was completed in 
three clouds, it is nec­essary 10 that also the power which is in 
Hades will be completed at the appointed time. For, because of the grace of the 
Majesty, I came forth to her from the water for the second time. 15 
For my face pleased  her. Her face also was glad.

And I said to her, "May seed  and power come forth from you 20 
upon the earth." And she obeyed the will of the Spirit that she might be brought 
to naught. And when her forms returned, they rubbed  their tongue(s) with each 
other; they copulated; 25 they begot winds and demons and the power 
which is from the fire and the Darkness and the Spirit. But the form which 
remained alone cast the 30 beast from herself. She did not have 
intercourse, but she was the one who rubbed herself alone. And she brought forth 
a wind which  possessed a power 35 from the fire and the 
Darkness and the Spirit.

And in order that the 22 demons also might become free from the power 
which they possessed through the impure intercourse, a womb was with the winds
5 resembling water. And an unclean penis was with the demons in 
accordance with the example of the Darkness, and in the way he rubbed with the 
womb from the beginning. And after 10 the forms of Nature had been 
together, they separated from each other. They cast off the power, being 
astonished about the deceit which had happened to them. They grieved 15
with an eternal grief. They covered themselves with their power. 


And when I had put them to shame, I arose with my garment in the power and — 
which is above the beast which is a light, 20 in order that I might 
make Nature desolate. The mind which had appeared in the Nature of Darkness, 
(and) which was the eye of the heart of Darkness, at my wish reigned over 
25 the winds and the demons. And I gave him a likeness of fire, light, and 
attentiveness, and a share of guileless word. Therefore he was given of the 
greatness 30 in order to be strong in his power, independent of the 
power, independent of the light of the Spirit, and intercourse of Darkness, in 
order that, at the end of time, when 23 Nature will be destroyed, he may 
rest  in the honored place. For he will be found faithful, since he 
has loathed 5 the un­chastity of Nature with the Darkness. The strong 
power of the mind came into being from the mind and the unbegotten Spirit.

But the winds, which are demons 10 from water and fire and dark­ness 
and light, had intercourse unto perdition. And through this intercourse the 
winds received in their womb 15 foam from the penis of the demons. 
They conceived a power in their womb. From the breathing the wombs of the winds 
girded each other 20 until the times of the birth came. They went 
down to the water. And the power was delivered, through the breathing which 
moves the birth, in the midst of the practice. And 25 every form of 
the birth received shape in it. When the times of the birth were near, all the 
winds were gathered from the water which is near the 30 earth. They 
gave birth to all kinds of unchastity. And the place where the wind alone went 
was permeated with the unchastity. Barren wives came from it 35 and 
sterile hus­bands. 24 For just as they are born, so they bear.

Because of you (pl.), the image of the Spirit appeared in the earth and the 
water. 5 For you are like the Light. For you possess a share of the 
winds and the demons, and a thought from the Light of the power of the 
Astonishment. 10 For everything which he brought forth from the womb 
upon the earth  was not a good thing for her, but her groan and her 
pain, because of the image which appeared in 15 you from the Spirit. 
For you are exalted in your heart. And it is blessed­ness, Shem, if 20
a part is given to someone and if he departs from the soul to (go) to the 
thought of the Light. For the soul is a burden of the Darkness, and those who 
know where the root of the soul came from will be able to grope after Nature 
also. 25 For the soul is a work of unchastity and an (object of) 
scorn to the thought of Light. For I am the one who revealed concerning all that 
is unbegotten. 30

And in order that the sin of Nature might be filled, I made the womb, which was 
disturbed, pleasant – the blind wisdom – that I might be able to bring (it) to 
naught. And at my 25 wish, he plotted with the water of Darkness and also 
the Darkness, that they might wound every form of your (pl.) heart. For by 
5 the will of the light of the Spirit they surrounded you; they bound you 
in Faith. And in or­der that his plan might become idle, he sent a demon 10
that the plan of her wickedness might be proclaimed. And he caused a 
flood, and he destroyed your (pl.) race, in order to take the light and to take 
from 15 Faith. But I proclaimed quickly by the mouth of the demon 
that a tower  come to be up to the particle of the light, which was 
left in the demons and 20 their race – which was water – that the 
demon might be protected from the turbulent chaos. And the womb planned these 
things according to my will in order that she might 25 pour forth 
completely. A tower came to be through the demons. The Darkness was disturbed by 
his loss. He loosened the muscles of the womb. And the demon 30 who 
was going to enter the tower was protected in order that the races might 
continue and might acquire coherence through him. For he possesses power from 
every form. 35

Return henceforth, 26 O Shem, and rejoice [greatly] over your race and 
Faith, for without body and necessity it is protected from 5 every 
body of Darkness, bearing witness to the holy things of the greatness which was 
revealed to them in their thought by my will. And they shall rest in the 
unbegotten Spirit 10 without grief. But you, Shem, be­cause of this, 
you remained in (the) body outside the cloud of light that you might remain with 
Faith. And Faith 15 will come to you. Her thought will be taken and 
given to you with a consciousness of light. And I  told you these 
things for the benefit of your race from the cloud of light. 20 And 
likewise what I shall say to you concerning everything, I shall reveal to you 
completely that you may reveal them to those who will be upon the earth the 
25 second time.
O 
Shem, the disturbance which occurred at my wish happened in order that Nature 
might become empty. For the wrath of the Dark­ness subsided. 30 O
Shem, the Darkness' mouth was shut. No longer does the light which shone 
for the world appear in it, according to my will. And when Nature had said that
35 its wish was fulfilled, then every form was engulfed by the waters
27 in prideful ignorance. She (i.e. Nature) turned her dark vagina and 
cast from her the power of fire 5 which was in her from the beginning 
through the practice of the Darkness. 
It (masc.) lifted itself up and shone upon the whole world instead of the 
righteous one. And all her forms 10 sent forth a power  like 
a flame of fire up to heaven as a help to the corrupted light, which had lifted 
itself up. For they were members of the 15 chaotic fire. And she did 
not know that she had harmed herself. When she cast forth the power,  the 
power which she possessed, she cast it forth from the genitals. It was the 
demon, 20 a deceiver, who stirred up the womb in every form – .  And 
in her ignorance, as if she were doing a great thing, she grant­ed the demons
25 and the winds a star each. For without wind and star nothing 
happens upon the earth. For every power is filled by them after they were 
30 released from the Darkness and the fire and the power and the light. 
For in the place where their darkness and their fire were mixed with each other 
beasts were brought forth. And it was in the place 35 of the 
Darkness, and the fire, and the power 28 of the mind, and the light, that 
human beings came into existence. Being from the Spirit, the thought of the 
Light, my eye, exists not in every man. 5 For before the flood came 
from the winds and the demons, rain came to men. But then, in order that the 
power which is in the tower might be brought forth, 10 and might rest 
upon the earth  Nature, which had been disturbed,  wanted to harm the 
seed which will be upon the earth after the flood. 15 Demons were 
sent to them, and a deviation of the winds, and a burden of the angels, and a 
fear of the prophet, a condemnation of speech, that I may 20 teach 
you, O Shem, from what blindness your race is protected. When I have re­vealed 
to you all that has been spoken,  then the righteous one will 25 
shine upon the world with my garment. And the night and the day will  be 
separated. For I shall hasten down to the world to take the light  of 
that place, the one which 30 Faith possesses. And I shall appear to 
those who will acquire the thought of the light of the Spirit. For be­cause of 
them my majesty appeared.
When
35 he will have appeared, O Shem, upon the earth, [in] the place 
which will be 29 called Sodom, (then) safeguard the insight which I shall 
give you. For those whose heart was pure will con­gregate to you, 5 
because of the word which you will reveal. For when you appear  in 
the world, dark Nature will shake against you, 10 together with the 
winds and a demon,  that they may destroy the in­sight. But you, 
proclaim quickly to the Sodomites your universal teaching, 15 for 
they are your members. For the demon of human form will part from that place by 
my will, since he is ignorant. He will guard this utterance. But the 20
Sodomites, according to the will of the Majesty, will bear witness to the 
universal testimony. They  will rest with a pure conscience in the 
place 25 of their repose, which is the unbegotten Spirit. And as 
these things will happen, Sodom will be burned unjustly  by a base 
nature. 30 For the evil will not cease in order that your majesty may 
reveal that place.

Then 30 the demon will depart with Faith. And then he will appear in the 
four regions of the world. And when 5 Faith appears in the last 
likeness, then will her appearance become manifest. For the first­born is the 
demon who appeared in the union 10 of Nature with many faces, in 
order that Faith might appear in him. For when he appears in the world, evil 
passions will arise, 15 and earthquakes, and wars, and famines, and 
blasphemies. For because of him the whole world will be disturbed. For he will 
seek the power 20 of Faith and Light; he will not find it. For at 
that time the demon will also appear upon the river to baptize with an 25
imperfect baptism, and to trouble the world with a bondage of water. But 
it is necessary for me to appear in the members of the thought of Faith to 
30 reveal the great things of my power. I shall separate it from the demon 
who is Soldas. And the light which he possesses from the Spirit I shall mix 
35 with my in­vincible garment, as well as him whom I shall reveal 31 
in the darkness for your sake and for the sake of your race which will be 
protected from the evil Darkness.

Know, O Shem, that without 5 Elorchaios and Amoias and Stro­phaias 
and Chelkeak and Chelkea and Aileou, no one will be able to pass by this wicked 
region. For this is my memorial 10 that in it I have been victorious 
over the wicked region. And I have taken the light of the Spirit from the 
frightful water. For when the 15 appointed days of the demon draw 
near he who will baptize erringly – , then I shall appear in the baptism of the 
demon to reveal 20 with the mouth of Faith a testimony to those who 
belong to her. I testify of thee, Spark the unquenchable, Osei, the elect of
25 the Light, the eye of heaven, and Faith, the first and the last, 
and Sophia, and Saphaia, and Saphaina, and the righteous Spark, and the 3°
impure light. And you (sg.), east, and west, and north, and south, upper 
air and lower air, and all the powers and authorities, 32 you (pl.) are 
in Nature.

And you (sg.), Moluchtha and Soch are from every work and every impure effort of
5 Nature. Then I shall come from the demon down to the water. And 
whirlpools of water and flames of fire will rise up against me. Then I 10
shall come up from the water, having put on the light of Faith and the 
unquenchable fire, in order that through my help the power of the Spirit may 
cross, 15 she who has been cast in the world by the winds and the 
demons and the stars. And in them I every unchastity will be filled. 

Finally, O Shem, consider 20 yourself pleasing in the thought of the 
Light. Do not let your thought have dealings with the fire and the body of 
Darkness which was an unclean 25 work. These things which I teach you 
are right. 
This 
is the paraphrase: – For you did not remember that it is from the firmament that
30 your race has been protected. – Elorchaios is the name of the 
great Light, the place from which I have come, the Word which has no equal. And 
the likeness is my honored garment. 35 And Derderkeas is the name of 
his Word in 33 the voice of the Light. And Strophaia is the blessed 
glance which is the Spirit. and it is Chelkeach, who is my garment, 5 
who has come from the Astonishment, who was in the cloud of the Hymen which 
appeared, as a trimor­phic cloud. And Chelkea is my garment 10 which 
has two forms, he who was in the cloud of Silence. And Chelke is my garment 
which  was given him from every region; it was given him in a single form 15 
from the greatness, he who was in the cloud of the middle region. and the star 
of the Light which was mentioned is my invincible gar­ment which 20 I 
wore in Hades; this (i.e. the star of the Light) is the mercy which surpasses 
the thought and the testimony of those who bear witness. And the testimony which 
has been mentioned: 25 the First and the Last, Faith,  the 
Mind of the wind of darkness. And Sophaia and Saphaina are in the cloud of those 
who have been separ­ated from the chaotic fire. 30 And the righteous 
Spark is the cloud of light which has shone in your (pl.) midst. For in it (i.e. 
the cloud of light) my garment will go down to chaos.
But 
the 34 impure light, which appeared in the Darkness (and) which belongs 
to dark Nature, is a power. And the upper air and the lower air, and the 5
powers and the authorities, the demons and the stars, these possessed a 
particle of fire and a light from the Spirit.

And Moluchthas is a wind, 30 for without it nothing is brought forth 
upon the earth. He has a likeness of a serpent and a unicorn. His protrusion(s) 
are manifold wings. 15 And the remainder is the womb which has been 
disturbed. You are blessed, Shem, for your race has been protected from the dark 
wind which is many-faced. And they will 20 bear the universal 
testimony and (bear witness) to the impure  prac­tice of (Nature>. 
And they will become sublime through the reminder of the Light.
O 
Shem, 25 no one who wears the body will be able to complete these 
things. But through I remembrance he will be able to grasp  them, 
in order that, when his thought separates from the body, 30 then 
these things may be revealed to him. They have been revealed to your race. O 
Shem, it is difficult for someone wearing a body to complete [these things, as] 
I said to you. 35 And it is a small number that will' complete them, 
those who possess the particle of the mind and the thought of the light of the
5 Spirit. They will keep their mind from the impure practice. For 
many in the race of Nature will seek the security of the Power. They will not 
find it, nor 10 will they be able to do the will of Faith. For they 
are seed of the universal Darkness. And those who  find them are in much 
suffering. The winds 15 and the demons will hate them. And the 
bondage of the body is  severe. For where the winds, and the stars, 
and the demons cast forth from the power 20 of the Spirit, (there) 
repentance and testimony will appear upon them, and mercy will lead them to the 
unbegotten Spirit. 25 And those who are repentant will find rest 
 in the consummation and Faith, in the place of the Hymen. This is the 
Faith which will 30 fill the place which has been  left 
empty. But those who do not share in the Spirit of light and in Faith will 
dissolve in the [Darkness], the place 36 where repentance did not come. '
It 
is I who opened the eternal gates which were shut from the begin­ning. To those 
who long for the best of 5 life, and those who are wor­thy of the 
repose, he revealed them. I granted perception to those who perceive. I disclose 
to them 10 all the thoughts and the teaching  of the righteous ones. 
And I did not become their enemy at all. But when I had endured the wrath of the 
world, I was victorious. There was not 15 one of them who knew me. The gates of 
fire and endless smoke opened against me. All the winds rose up against me. The 
thunderings and the 20 lightning-flashes for a time will rise up 
against me. And they will bring  their wrath upon me. And on account 
of me according to the flesh, they  will rule over them according to 
kind. 25

And many who wear erring flesh will go down  to the harmful wat­ers 
through the winds and the demons. And they are bound by the water. 30 
And he will heal with a futile remedy. He will lead astray, and he will bind the 
world. And those that do the will of Nature, their part will [...] 37 two 
times in the day of the water and the forms of Nature. And it will not be 
granted them, when Faith disturbs them 5 in order to take to herself the 
righteous one. 
O 
Shem, it is necessary that the thought be called by the Word in order that the bondage of the power of the Spirit may be saved frog the 
frightful 10 water. And it is blessedness if it is granted someone to 
contemplate the exalted one, and to know the exalted time and the bondage. For 
the water is an 15 insignificant body. And men are not released, 
since they are bound in the water, just as from the beginn­ing the light of the 
Spirit was bound.
O 
Shem, they are deceived 20 by manifold demons, thinking that through 
baptism with the uncleanness of water, that which is dark, feeble, idle, 25
(and) disturbing, he will take away the sins. And they do not know that 
from the water to the water there is bondage, and error and unchastity, 30
envy, murder, adultery, false witness, heresies, 
robberies, lusts, babblings, wrath, bitterness, 35 great [...].


38 
Therefore there are many deaths which burden their thoughts. For I foretell it 
to those who have a heart. 5 They will refrain from the impure 
baptism. And those who take heart from the light of the Spirit will not have 
dealings with the impure practice. 10 And their heart will not 
expire, nor will they curse. And the water – <nor> will they be given honor. 
Where the curse is, there is the deficiency. 15 And the blindness is 
where the honor is. For if they mix with the evil ones, they become empty in the 
dark water.  For where the water has been 20 mentioned, 
there is Nature, and the oath, and the lie, and the loss. For only in the 
unbegotten Spirit, where the exalted Light rested, 25 has the water 
not been mentioned, nor can it be mentioned.
For 
this is my appearance: for when I have 30 completed the times which 
are assigned to me upon the earth, then I will cast from me [my garment of fire 
(?)]. And 39 my unequalled garment will come forth upon me, and also all 
my garments which I put on in all the clouds 5 which were from the 
Astonishment of the Spirit. For the air will tear my garment. For it (i.e. my 
garment) will shine, and it will divide all the clouds up to 10 the 
root of the Light. The repose is the mind and my garment. And my remaining 
garments, those on the left and those on the right, will shine 15 on 
the back in order that the image of the Light may appear. For my garments which 
I put on in the three clouds, in the last day they 20 will rest in 
their root, i.e. in the unbegotten Spirit, since they are without fault, through 
the divi­sion of (the) clouds.

Therefore I have appeared, 25 being faultless, on account of the 
clouds, because they are unequal, in order that the wickedness of Nature might 
be ended. For she wished at that time 30 to snare me. She was about 
to fix (to the cross) Soldas who is the dark flame, who attended on the [...] of 
error, 40 that he might snare me. She took care of her faith, being 
vainglorious.

And at that time 5 the light was about to separate from the 
Dark­ness, and a voice was heard in the world, saying, "Blessed is the eye which 
has seen thee, and the mind which has 10 supported thy majesty at my 
desire." It will be said by the exalted one, "Blessed is Rebouel among every 
race of men, for it is you (fern.) alone 15 who have seen." And she 
will listen. And they will behead the woman who has the perception, whom you 
will reveal upon the earth. And according to 20 my will she will bear 
witness, and she will cease from every vain effort of Nature and chaos. For the 
woman whom they will behead at that 25 time is the coherence of the 
power of the demon who will baptize the seed of darkness in severity, that it 
(i.e. the seed) may mix with unchastity. 30 He begot a woman. She was 
called Rebouel.

See, O Shem, how all the things I have said to you have been ful­filled. [And 
.... And the things which] you 41 lack, according to my will they will 
appear to you at that place upon the earth that you may reveal them 5 
as they are. Do not let your thought have dealings with the body. For I have 
said these things to you, through the voice of the fire, for I entered through
10 the midst of the clouds. And I spoke according to the language of 
each one. This is my language which I spoke to you. And it will be taken from 
you. And you will speak with the voice of the world is upon the 
earth. And it will appear to you with that appearance and voice, and all that I 
have said to you. Henceforth proceed with Faith 20 to shine in the 
depths of the world.

And I, Shem, awoke as if from a long sleep. I marveled when I re­ceived the 
power of the Light and his whole thought. 25 And I pro­ceeded with 
Faith to shine with me. And the righteous one followed us with my invincible 
garment. And all that he had told me 30 would happen upon the earth 
happened. Nature was handed over to Faith, that she (i.e. Faith) might overturn 
her and that she (i.e. Nature) might stand in the Darkness. She brought forth a
42 turning motion while wandering night and day without receiving rest 
with the souls. 

These things completed her 5 deeds.

Then I rejoiced in the thought of the Light. I came forth from the Darkness and 
I walked in Faith where the forms of 10 Nature are, up to the top of 
the earth, to the things which are prepared.

Thy Faith is upon the earth the whole day. For all night and day she surrounds 15 Nature to take to herself the righteous one. For 
Na­ture is  burdened, and she is troubled. For none will be able to 
open the forms of the Womb except the mind 20 alone who was entrusted 
with their likeness. For frightful is their likeness of the two forms  of 
Nature, the one which is blind.

But they who have 25 a free conscience remove themselves from the 
babbling of Nature. For they will bear witness to the universal tes­timony; 
30 they will strip off the burden of Darkness; they will put on the Word 
of the Light; and they will not be kept back 43 in the insig­nificant 
place. And what they possess from the power of the mind they will give to Faith. 
They will 5 be accepted without' grief. And the chaotic  fire 
which they possess they will place in the middle region of

Nature. And they will be received 10 by my garments, those which are 
in the clouds. It is they who guide their members. They will rest in the Spirit 
without suffering. And because of this the 15 appointed term of Faith 
appeared upon the earth for a short time, until the Dark­ness is taken away from 
her, and her testimony is revealed 20 which was revealed by me. They 
who will prove to be from her root will strip off the Darkness and the chaotic 
fire. 25 They will put on the light of the mind and they will bear 
witness. For all that I have said must happen.

After I cease to be upon the earth and 30 withdraw up to my rest, a 
great, evil error will come upon the world, and many evils in ac­cordance with 
the number of the forms of 44 Nature. Evil times will come. And when the 
era of Nature is approaching destruction, dark­ness will 5 come upon 
the earth. The number will be small. And a demon will come up from the power who 
has a likeness of fire. He will divide the heaven, (and) he will rest 10
in the depth of the east. For the whole world will quake. And the deceived 
world will be thrown into confusion. Many places will be flooded because of 
15 envy of the winds and the demons who have a name which is senseless: 
Phorbea, Chloerga. They are the ones who govern the world with their teach­ing. 
And they lead astray 20 many hearts because of their disorder and 
their unchastity. Many places will be sprinkled with blood. And five races by 
themselves 25 will eat their sons. But the regions of the south 
 will receive the Word of the Light. But they who are from the error of 
the world 30 and from the east – . A demon will come forth from (the) 
belly of the serpent. He was 45 in hiding in a desolate place. He will 
perform many wonders. Many will loathe him. A wind will come forth from his 
mouth with a female likeness. Her name will be called  Abalphe. He will reign 
over the world from the east to the west.

Then Nature will have 10 a final opportunity. And the stars will 
cease from the sky. The mouth of error will be opened in order that the evil 
Darkness may become idle and silent. And in the last day 15 the forms 
of Nature will be destroyed with the winds and all their demons; they' will 
become a dark lump, just as they were 20 from the beginning. And the 
sweet waters which were burdened by the demons will perish. For where the power 
of the Spirit has gone 25 there are my sweet waters. The other works 
of Nature will not be manifest. They will mix with the infinite waters of 
darkness. 30 And all her forms will cease from the middle region.
I,
 Shem, have completed these things. And my mind began to separate 
from the body of darkness. My 46 time was completed. And  my 
mind put on the immortal memorial. And I said, "I agree with thy 5 
memorial which thou hast revealed to me: Elorchaois, and thou, Amoiaiai, and 
thou, Sederkeas, and they guilelessness, Stro­phaias, and thou, Chelkeak, 
10 and thou, Chelkea, and Chelke and Elaie, you (pl.) are the immortal 
memorial. I testify to thee, Spark, the unquenchable one, who is an eye 15
of heaven and a voice of light,  and Sophaia, and Saphaia, and 
Saphaina, and the righteous Spark, and Faith, the first and the last, and the 
upper air and lower 20 air, ( and thou, Chelkeak, and Chelke and 
Elaie, you (pl.) are the immor­al memorial. I testify to thee, Spark, the 
unquenchable one, who is an eye of heaven 25 and a voice of light, 
and Sophaia, and Saphaia, and Saphaina, and the righteous Spark, and Faith, the 
First and the Last, and the upper air and the lower air, ) and 30 all 
the powers and the authorities that are in the world. And you, impure light, and 
you (sg.) also, east, and west, and south, and 35 north, you (pl.) 
are the zones 47 of the inhabited world. And you (fern. sg.) also 
Moluch­tha and Essoch, you (pl.) are the root of evil and every work and 5 
impure effort of Nature." 

These are the things which I completed while bearing witness. I am Shem. On the 
day that I was to come forth from (the) body, when my thought 10 
remained in (the) body, I awoke as if from a long sleep. And when I arose as it 
were from the burden of my body, I said, Just as Nature became old, 15
so is it also in the day of mankind. Blessed are they who knew, when they 
slept, in what power their thought rested. 20

And when the Pleiades separated, I saw clouds which I shall pass by. For the 
cloud of the Spirit is like a pure beryl. 25 And the cloud of the 
hymen is like a shining emerald. And the cloud of silence is like a flourishing 
amaranth. And 30 the cloud of the middle region is like a pure 
jacinth. And when the righteous one appeared in Nature, then – when Nature 
35 was angry – she felt hurt, and she granted 48 to Morphaia to 
visit heaven. The righteous one visits dur­ing twelve periods that he may visit 
them during one 5 period, in order that his time may be completed 
quickly, and Nature may become idle.

Blessed are they who guard themselves against the 10 heritage of 
death, which is the burdensome water of darkness. For it will not be possible to 
conquer them in a few moments, since they hasten to come forth from the error of 
the 15 world. And if they are conquered, they will be kept back from 
them and be tormented in the darkness until the time of the consummation. When 
the consummation 20 has come and Nature has been destroyed, then 
their thoughts will  separ­ate from the Darkness. Nature has burdened 
them for a short time. And they 25 will be in the ineffable light of 
the unbegotten Spirit without a form. And thus is the mind as I have said from
30 the first.

Henceforth, O Shem,  go in grace and continue in faith upon the 
earth. For every power of light and fire will be completed by me 49 
because of you. For without you they will not be revealed until you 
speak them openly. When you cease to be upon the earth, they will 5 
be given to the worthy ones. And apart from this proclamation, let them speak 
about you upon the earth, since they will take the care­free and agreeable land.
 
This translation was made by Frederik Wisse, excerpted from The Nag Hammadi Library in English edited by James M. Robinson, and transcribed for online publication originally at the Gnostic Society Library (gnosis.org).
