
The Shepherd of Hermas












The Shepherd of Hermas
First Book: Visions
First VisionAGAINST FILTHY AND PROUD THOUGHTS, AND THE CARELESSNESS 
OF HERMAS IN CHASTISING HIS SONS.
CHAPTER I
He who had brought me up, sold me to one Rhode in Rome. Many years after this 
I recognised her, and I began to love her as a sister. Some time after, I saw 
her bathe in the river Tiber; and I gave her my hand, and drew her out of the 
river. The sight of her beauty made me think with myself, "I should be a happy 
man if I could but get a wife as handsome and good as she is." This was the only 
thought that passed through me: this and nothing more. A short time after this, 
as I was walking on my road to the villages, and magnifying the creatures of 
God, and thinking how magnificent, and beautiful, and powerful they are, I fell 
asleep. And the Spirit carried me away, and took me through a pathless place, 
through which a man could not travel, for it was situated in the midst of rocks; 
it was rugged and impassible on account of water. Having passed over this river, 
I came to a plain. I then bent down on my knees, and began to pray to the Lord 
and to confess my sins. And as I prayed, the heavens were opened, and I see the 
woman whom I had desired saluting me from the sky, and saying, "Hail, Hermas!" 
And looking up to her, I said, "Lady, what doest thou here?" And she answered 
me, "I have been taken up here to accuse you of your sins before the Lord." 
"Lady," said I, "are you to be the subject of my accusation?" "No," said she; 
"but hear the words which I am going to speak to you. God, who dwells in the 
heavens, and made out of nothing the things that exist, and multiplied and 
increased them on account of His holy Church, is angry with you for having 
sinned against me." I answered her, "Lady, have I sinned against you? How? or 
when spoke I an unseemly word to you? Did I not always think of you as a lady? 
Did I not always respect you as a sister? Why do you falsely accuse me of this 
wickedness and impurity?" With a smile she replied to me, "The desire of 
wickedness arose within your heart. Is it not your opinion that a righteous man 
commits sin when an evil desire arises in his heart? There is sin in such a 
case, and the sin is great," said she; "for the thoughts of a righteous man 
should be righteous. For by thinking righteously his character is established in 
the heavens, and he has the Lord merciful to him in every business. But those 
who entertain wicked thoughts in their minds are bringing upon themselves death 
and captivity; and especially is this the case with those who set their 
affections on this world, and glory in their riches, and look not forward to the 
blessings of the life to come. For many will their regrets be; for they have no 
hope, but have despaired of themselves and their life. But do thou pray to God, 
and He will heal thy sins, and the sins of thy whole house, and of all the 
saints." 
CHAPTER II.
After she had spoken these words, the heavens were shut. I was overwhelmed 
with sorrow and fear, and said to myself, "If this sin is assigned to me, how 
can I be saved, or how shall I propitiate God in regard to my sins, which are of 
the grossest character? With what words shall I ask the Lord to be merciful to 
me? While I was thinking over these things, and discussing them in my mind, I 
saw opposite to me a chair, white, made of white wool, of great size. And there 
came up an old woman, arrayed in a splendid robe, and with a book in her hand; 
and she sat down alone, and saluted me, "Hail, Hermas!" And in sadness and tears 
I said to her, "Lady, hail!" And she said to me, "Why are you downcast, Hermas? 
for you were wont to be patient and temperate, and always smiling. Why are you 
so gloomy, and not cheerful? 
I answered her and said, "O Lady, I have been reproached by a very good 
woman, who says that I sinned against her." And she said, "Far be such a deed 
from a servant of God. But perhaps a desire after her has arisen within your 
heart. Such a wish, in the case of the servants of God, produces sin. For it is 
a wicked and horrible wish in an all-chaste and already well-tried spirit to 
desire an evil deed; and especially for Hermas so to do, who keeps himself from 
all wicked desire, and is full of all simplicity, and of great guilelessness. 
CHAPTER III.
"But God is not angry with you on account of this, but that you may convert 
your house, which have committed iniquity against the Lord, and against you, 
their parents. And although you love your sons, yet did you not warn your house, 
but permitted them to be terribly corrupted. On this account is the Lord angry 
with you, but He will heal all the evils which have been done in your house. 
For, on account of their sins and iniquities, you have been destroyed by the 
affairs of this world. But now the mercy of the Lord has taken pity on you and 
your house, and will strengthen you, and establish you in his glory. Only be not 
easy-minded, but be of good courage and comfort your house. For as a smith 
hammers out his work, and accomplishes whatever he wishes," so shall righteous 
daily speech overcome all iniquity. Cease not therefore to admonish your sons; 
for I know that, if they will repent with all their heart, they will be enrolled 
in the Books of Life with the saints." Having ended these words, she said to me, 
"Do you wish to hear me read?" I say to her, "Lady, I do." "Listen then, and 
give ear to the glories of God." And then I heard from her, magnificently and 
admirably, things which my memory could not retain. For all the words were 
terrible, such as man could not endure. The last words, however, I did remember; 
for they were useful to us, and gentle. "Lo, the God of powers, who by His 
invisible strong power and great wisdom has created the world, and by His 
glorious counsel has surrounded His creation with beauty, and by His strong word 
has fixed the heavens and laid the foundations of the earth upon the waters, and 
by His own wisdom and providence has created His holy Church, which He has 
blessed, lo! He removes the heavens and the mountains, the hills and the seas, 
and all things become plain to His elect, that He may bestow on them the 
blessing which He has promised them, with much glory and joy, if only they shall 
keep the commandments of God which they have received in great faith." 
CHAPTER IV.
When she had ended her reading, she rose from the chair, and four young men 
came and carried off the chair and went away to the east. And she called me to 
herself and touched my breast, and said to me," Have you been pleased with my 
reading?" And I say to her, "Lady, 11 
the last words please me, but the first are cruel and harsh." Then she said 
to me, "The last are for the righteous: the first are for heathens and 
apostates." And while she spoke to me, two men appeared and raised her on their 
shoulders, and they went to where the chair was in the east. With joyful 
countenance did she depart; and as she went, she said to me, "Behave like a man, 
Hermas." 

Second Vision
AGAIN, OF HIS NEGLECT IN CHASTISING HIS TALKATIVE WIFE AND HIS LUSTFUL SONS, AND OF HIS CHARACTER.
CHAPTER I.
As I was going to the country about the same time as on the 
previous year, in my walk I recalled to memory the vision of that 
year. And again the Spirit carried me away, and took me to the same 
place where I had been the year before. On coming to that place, I 
bowed my knees and began to pray to the Lord, and to glorify His 
name, because He had deemed me worthy, and had made known to me my 
former sins. On rising from prayer, I see opposite me that old 
woman, whom I had seen the year before, walking and reading some 
book. And she says to me, "Can you carry a report of these things to 
the elect of God?" I say to her, "Lady, so much I cannot retain in 
my memory, but give me the book and I shall transcribe it." "Take 
it," says she, "and you will give it back to me." Thereupon I took 
it, and going away into a certain part of the country, I transcribed 
the whole of it letter by letter; but the syllables of it I did not 
catch. No sooner, however, had I finished the writing of the book, 
than all of a sudden it was snatched from my hands; but who the 
person was that snatched it, I saw not. 

CHAPTER II.
Fifteen days after, when I had fasted and prayed much to the 
Lord, the knowledge of the writing was revealed to me. Now the 
writing was to this effect: "Your seed, O Hermas, has sinned against 
God, and they have blasphemed against the Lord, and in their great 
wickedness they have betrayed their parents. And they passed as 
traitors of their parents, and by their treachery did they not reap 
profit. And even now they have added to their sins lusts and 
iniquitous pollutions, and thus their iniquities have, been filled 
up. But make known these words to all your children, and to your 
wife, who is to be your sister. For she does not restrain her 
tongue, with which she commits iniquity; but, on hearing these 
words, she will control herself, and will obtain mercy. For after 
you have made known to them these words which my Lord has commanded 
me to reveal to you, then shall they be forgiven all the sins 
which in former times they committed, and forgiveness will be 
granted to all the saints who have sinned even to the present day, 
if they repent with all their heart, and drive all doubts from their 
minds. For the Lord has sworn by His glory, in regard to His 
elect, that if any one of them sin after a certain day which has 
been fixed, he shall not be saved. For the repentance of the 
righteous has limits. Filled up are the days of repentance to 
all the saints; but to the heathen, repentance will be possible even 
to the last day. You will tell, therefore, those who preside over 
the Church, to direct their ways in righteousness, that they may 
receive in full the promises with great glory. Stand stedfast, 
therefore, ye who work righteous, ness, and doubt not, that 
your passage may be with the holy angels. Happy ye who endure 
the great tribulation that is coming on, and happy they who shall 
not deny their own life. For the Lord hath sworn by His Son, 
that those who denied their Lord have abandoned their life in 
despair, for even now these are to deny Him in the days that are 
coming. To those who denied in earlier times, God became 
gracious, on account of His exceeding tender mercy. 

CHAPTER III.
"But as for you, Hermas, remember not the wrongs done to you by 
your children, nor neglect your sister, that they may be cleansed 
from their former sins. For they will be instructed with righteous 
instruction, if you remember not the wrongs they have done you. For 
the remembrance of wrongs worketh death. And you, Henna, have 
endured great personal tribulations on account of the 
transgressions of your house, because you did not attend to them, 
but were careless and engaged in your wicked transactions. But 
 you are saved, because you did not depart from the living God, 
and on account of your simplicity and great self-control. These have 
saved you, if you remain stedfast. And they will save all who act in 
the same manner, and walk in guilelessness and simplicity. Those who 
possess such virtues will wax strong against every form of 
wickedness, and will abide unto eternal life. Blessed are all they 
who practise righteousness, for they shall never be destroyed. Now 
you will tell Maximus: Lo! tribulation cometh on. If it seemeth 
good to thee, deny again. The Lord is near to them who return unto 
Him, as it is written in Eldad and Modat, who prophesied to the 
people in the wilderness." 

CHAPTER IV.
Now a revelation was given to me, my brethren, while I slept, by 
a young man of comely appearance, who said to me, "Who do you think 
that old woman is from whom you received the book?" And I said, "The 
Sibyl." "You are in a mistake," says he; "it is not the Sibyl." "Who 
is it then?" say I. And he said, "It is the Church." And I said 
to him, "Why then is she an old woman? "Because," said he, "she was 
created first of all. On this account is she old. And for her sake 
was the world made." After that I saw a vision in my house, and that 
old woman came and asked me, if I had yet given the book to the 
presbyters. And I said that I had not. And then she said, "You have 
done well for I have some words to add. But when I finish all the 
words, all the elect will then become acquainted with them through 
you. You will write therefore two books, and you will send the one 
to Clemens and the other to Grapte. And Clemens will send his to 
foreign countries, for permission has been granted to him to do so. 
 And Grapte will admonish the widows and the orphans. But you 
will read the words in this city, along with the presbyters who 
preside over the Church. 

Third Vision CONCERNING THE BUILDING OF THE TRIUMPHANT CHURCH, AND THE VARIOUS CLASSES OF REPROBATE MEN.
CHAPTER I.
The vision which I saw, my brethren, was of the following 
nature. Having fasted frequently, and having prayed to the Lord that 
He would show me the revelation which He promised to show me through 
that old woman, the same night that old woman appeared to me, and 
said to me, "Since you are so anxious and eager to know all things, 
go into the part of the country where you tarry; and about the fifth 
 hour I shall appear unto you, and show you all that you ought 
to see." I asked her, saying "Lady, into what part of the country am 
I to go?" And she said, "Into any part you wish." Then I chose a 
spot which was suitable, and retired. Before, however, I began to 
speak and to mention the place, she said to me, "I will come where 
you wish." Accordingly, I went to the country, and counted the 
hours, and reached the place where I, had promised to meet her. And 
I see an ivory seat ready placed, and on it a linen cushion, and 
above the linen cushion was spread a covering of fine linen. 
Seeing these laid out, and yet no one in the place, I began to feel 
awe, and as it were a trembling seized hold of me, and my hair stood 
on end, and as it were a horror came upon me when I saw that I was 
all alone. But on coming back to myself and calling to mind the 
glory of God, I took courage, bent my knees, and again confessed my 
sins to God as I had done before. Whereupon the old woman 
approached, accompanied by six young men whom I had also seen 
before; and she stood behind me, and listened to me, as I prayed and 
confessed my sins to the Lord. And touching me she said, "Hermas, 
cease praying continually for your sins; pray for righteousness, 
 that you may 13 

have a portion of it immediately in your house." On this, she 
took me up by the hand, and brought me to the seat, and said to the 
young men, "Go and build." When the young men had gone and we were 
alone, she said to me, "Sit here." I say to her, "Lady, 'permit my 
elders to be seated first." "Do what I bid you," said she; "sit 
down." When I would have sat down on her right, she did not permit 
me, but with her hand beckoned to me to sit down on the left. While 
I was thinking about this, and feeling vexed that she did not let me 
sit on the right, she said, "Are you vexed, Hermas? The place to the 
right is for others who have already pleased God, and have suffered 
for His name's sake; and you have yet much to accomplish before you 
can sit with them. But abide as you now do in your simplicity, and 
you will sit with them, and with all who do their deeds and bear 
what they have borne." 

CHAPTER II.
"What have they borne?" said I. "Listen," said she: "scourges, 
prisons, great tribulations, crosses, wild beasts, for God's 
name's sake. On this account is assigned to them the division of 
santification on the right hand, and to every one who shall suffer 
for God's name: to the rest is assigned the division on the left. 
But both for those who sit on the right, and those who sit on the 
left, there are the same gifts and promises; only those sit on the 
right, and have some glory. You then are eager to sit on the right 
with them, but your shortcomings are many. But you will be cleansed 
from your shortcomings; and all who are not given to doubts shall be 
cleansed from all their iniquities up till this day." Saying this, 
she wished to go away. But falling down at her feet, I begged her by 
the Lord that she would show me the vision which she had promised to 
show me. And then she again took hold of me by the hand, and raised 
me, and made me sit on the seat to the left; and lifting up a 
splendid rod, she said to me, "Do you see something great?" And 
I say, "Lady, I see nothing." She said to me, "Lo! do you not see 
opposite to you a great tower, built upon the waters, of splendid 
square stones?" For the tower was built square by those six 
young men who had come with her. But myriads of men were carrying 
stones to it, some dragging them from the depths, others removing 
them from the land, and they handed them to these six young men. 
They were taking them and building; and those. of the stones that 
were dragged out of the depths, they placed in the building just as 
they were: for they were polished and fitted exactly into the other 
stones, and became so united one with another that the lines of 
juncture could not be perceived. And in this way the building of 
the tower looked as if it were made out of one stone. Those stones, 
however, which were taken from the earth suffered a different fate; 
for the young men rejected some of them, some they fitted into the 
building, and some they cut down, and cast far away from the tower. 
Many other stones, however, lay around the tower, and the young men 
did not use them in building; for some of them were rough, others 
had cracks in them, others had been made too short, and others 
were white and round, but did not fit into the building of the 
tower. Moreover, I saw other stones thrown far away from the tower, 
and falling into the public road; yet they did not remain on the 
road, but were rolled into a pathless place. And I saw others 
falling into the fire and burning, others falling close to the 
water, and yet not capable of being rolled into the water, though 
they wished to be rolled down, and to enter the water. 

CHAPTER III.
On showing me these visions, she wished to retire. I said to 
her, "What is the use of my having seen all this, while I do not 
know what it means?" She said to me, "You are a cunning fellow, 
wishing to know everything that relates to the tower." "Even so, O 
Lady," said I, "that I may tell it to my brethren, that, hearing 
this, they may know the Lord in much glory." And she said, "Many 
indeed shall hear, and hearing, some shall be glad, and some shall 
weep. But even these, if they hear and repent, shall also rejoice. 
Hear, then, the parables of the tower; for I will reveal all to you, 
and give me no more trouble in regard to revelation: for these 
revelations have an end, for they have been completed. But you will 
not cease praying for revelations, for you are shameless. The 
tower which you see building is myself, the Church, who have 
appeared to you now and on the former occasion. Ask, then, whatever 
you like in regard to the tower, and I will reveal it to you, that 
you may rejoice with the saints." I said unto her, "Lady, since you 
have vouchsafed to reveal all to me this once, reveal it." She said 
to me, "Whatsoever ought to be revealed, will be revealed; only let 
your heart be with God, and doubt not whatsoever you shall see." 

14 

I asked her, "Why was the tower built upon the waters, O Lady?" 
She answered, "I told you before, and you still inquire 
carefully: therefore inquiring you shall find the truth. Hear then 
why the tower is built upon the waters. It is because your life has 
been, and will be, saved through water. For the tower was founder on 
the word of the almighty and glorious Name and it is kept together 
by the invisible power of the Lord." 

CHAPTER IV.
In reply I said to her, "This is magnificent and marvellous. But 
who are the six young men who are engaged in building?" And she 
said, "These are the holy angels of God, who were first created, and 
to whom the Lord handed over His whole creation, that they might 
increase and build up and rule over the whole creation. By these 
will the building of the tower be finished." "But who are the other 
persons who are engaged in carrying the stones?" These also are holy 
angels of the Lord, but the former six are more excellent than 
these. The building of the tower will be finished, and all will 
rejoice together around the tower, and they will glorify God, 
because the tower is finished." I asked her, saying, "Lady, I should 
like to know what became of the stones, and what was meant by the 
various kinds of stones?" In reply she said to me, "Not because you 
are more deserving than all others that this revelation should 
be made to you--for there are others before you, and better than 
you, to whom these visions should have been revealed--but that the 
name of God may be glorified, has the revelation been made to you, 
and it will be made on account of the doubtful who ponder in their 
hearts whether these things will be or not. Tell them that all these 
things are true, and that none of them is beyond the truth. All of 
them are firm and sure, and established on a strong foundation. 

CHAPTER V.
"Hear now with regard to the stones which are in the building. 
Those square white stones which fitted exactly into each other, are 
apostles, bishops, teachers, and deacons, who have lived in godly 
purity, and have acted as bishops and teachers and deacons chastely 
and reverently to the elect of God. Some of them have fallen asleep, 
and some still remain alive. And they have always agreed with 
each other, and been at peace among themselves, and listened to 
each other. On account of this, they join exactly into the building 
of the tower." "But who are the stones that were dragged from the 
depths, and which were laid into the building and fitted in with the 
rest of the stones previously placed in the tower?" "They are those 
 who suffered for the Lord's sake." "But I wish to know, O Lady, 
who are the other stones which were carried from the land." "Those," 
she said, "which go into the building without being polished, are 
those whom God has approved of, for they walked in the straight ways 
of the Lord and practised His commandments." "But who are those who 
are in the act of being brought and placed in the building?" "They 
are those who are young in faith and are faithful. But they are 
admonished by the angels to do good, for no iniquity has been found 
in them." "Who then are those whom they rejected and cast away?" 
"These are they who have sinned, and wish to repent. On this account 
they have not been thrown far from the tower, because they will yet 
be useful in the building, if they repent. Those then who are to 
repent, if they do repent, will be strong in faith, if they now 
repent while the tower is building. For if the building be finished, 
there will not be more room for any one, but he will be rejected. 
 This privilege, however, will belong only to him who has now 
been placed near the tower. 

CHAPTER VI.
"As to those who were cut down and thrown far away from the 
tower, do you wish to know who they are? They are the sons of 
iniquity, and they believed in hypocrisy, and wickedness did not 
depart from them. For this reason they are not saved, since they 
cannot be used in the building on account of their iniquities. 
Wherefore they have been cut off and cast far away on account of the 
anger of the Lord, for they have roused Him to anger. But I shall 
explain to you the other stones which you saw lying in great 
numbers, and not going into the building. Those which are rough are 
those who have known the truth and not remained in it, nor have they 
been joined to the saints. On this account are they unfit for 
use." "Who are those that have rents?" "These are they who are at 
discord in their hearts one with another, and are not at peace 
amongst themselves: they indeed keep peace before each other, but 
when they separate one from the other, their wicked thoughts remain 
in 15 

their hearts. These, then, are the rents which are in the 
stones. But those which are shortened are those who have indeed 
believed, and have the larger share of righteousness; yet they have 
also a considerable share of iniquity, and therefore they are 
shortened and not whole." "But who are these, Lady, that are white 
and round, and yet do not fit into the building of the tower?" She 
answered and said, "How long will you be foolish and stupid, and 
continue to put every kind of question and understand nothing? These 
are those who have faith indeed, but they have also the riches of 
this world. When, therefore, tribulation comes, on account of their 
riches and business they deny the Lord." I answered and said to 
her, "When, then, will they be useful for the building, Lady?"When 
the riches that now seduce them have been circumscribed, then will 
they be of use to God. For as a round stone cannot become square 
unless portions be cut off and cast away, so also those who are rich 
in this world cannot be useful to the Lord unless their riches be 
cut down. Learn this first from your own case. When you were rich, 
you were useless; but now you are useful and fit for life. Be ye 
useful to God; for you also will be used as one of these stones. 

CHAPTER VII,
"Now the other stones which you saw cast far away from the 
tower, and falling upon the public road and rolling from it into 
pathless places, are those who have indeed believed, but through 
doubt have abandoned the true road. Thinking, then, that they could 
find a better, they wander and become wretched, and enter upon 
pathless places. But those which fell into the fire and were burned? 
are those who have departed for ever from the living God; nor does 
the thought of repentance ever come into their hearts, on account of 
their devotion to their lusts and to the crimes which they 
committed. Do you wish to know who are the others which fell near 
the waters, but could not be rolled into them? These are they who 
have heard the word, and wish to be baptized in the name of the 
Lord; but when the chastity demanded by the truth comes into their 
recollection, they draw back, and again walk after their own 
wicked desires." She finished her exposition of the tower. But I, 
shameless as I yet was, asked her, "Is repentance possible for all 
those stones which have been cast away and did not fit into the 
building of the tower, and will they yet have a place in this 
tower?" "Repentance," said she, "is yet possible, but in this tower 
they cannot find a suitable place. But in another and much 
inferior place they will be laid, and that, too, only when they have 
been tortured and completed the days of their sins. And on this 
account will they be transferred, because they have partaken of the 
righteous Word. And then only will they be removed from their 
punishments when the thought of repenting of the evil deeds which 
they have done has come into their hearts. But if it does not come 
into their hearts, they will not be saved, on account of the 
hardness of their heart." 

CHAPTER VIII.
When then I ceased asking in regard to all these matters, she 
said to me, "Do you wish to see anything else?" And as I was 
extremely eager to see something more, my countenance beamed with 
joy. She looked towards me with a smile, and said, "Do you see seven 
women around the tower?" "I do, Lady," said I. "This tower," said 
she, "is supported by them according to the precept of the Lord. 
Listen now to their functions. The first of them, who is clasping 
her hands, is called Faith. Through her the elect of God are saved? 
Another, who has her garments tucked up and acts with vigour, is 
called Self-restraint. She is the daughter of Faith. Whoever then 
follows her will become happy in his life, because he will restrain 
himself from all evil works, believing that, if he restrain himself 
from all evil desire, he will inherit eternal life." "But the 
others," said I, "O Lady, who are they?" And she said to me, "They 
are daughters of each other. One of them is called Simplicity, 
another Guilelessness, another Chastity, another Intelligence, 
another Love. When then you do all the works of their mother, 
you will be able to live." "I should like to know," said I, "O Lady, 
what power each one of them possesses." "Hear," she said, "what 
power they have. Their powers are regulated by each other, and 
follow each other in the 16 

order of their birth. For from Faith arises Self-restraint; from 
Self-restraint, Simplicity; from Simplicity, Guilelessness; from 
Guilelessness, Chastity; from Chastity, Intelligence; and from 
Intelligence, Love. The deeds, then, of these are pure, and chaste, 
and divine. Whoever devotes himself to these, and is able to hold 
fast by their works, shall have his dwelling in the tower with the 
saints of God." Then I asked her in regard to the ages, if now there 
is the conclusion. She cried out with a loud voice, "Foolish man! do 
you not see the tower yet building? When the tower is finished and 
built, then comes the end; and I assure you it will be soon 
finished. Ask me no more questions. Let you and all the saints be 
content with what I have called to your remembrance, and with my 
renewal of your spirits. 

But observe that it is not for your own sake only that these 
revelations have been made to you, but they have been given you that 
you may show them to all. 

For after three days--this you will take care to remember--I 
Command you to speak all the words which I am to say to you into the 
ears of the saints, that hearing them and doing them, they may be 
cleansed from their iniquities, and you along with them." 

CHAPTER IX.
Give ear unto me, O Sons: I have brought you up in much 
simplicity, and guilelessness, and chastity, on account of the mercy 
of the Lord, who has dropped His righteousness down upon you, 
that ye may be made righteous and holy from all your iniquity 
and depravity; but you do not wish to rest from your iniquity. Now, 
therefore, listen to me, and be at peace one with another, and visit 
each other, and bear each other's burdens, and do not partake of 
God's creatures alone, but give abundantly of them to the needy. 
For some through the abundance of their food produce weakness in 
their flesh, and thus corrupt their flesh; while the flesh of others 
who have no food is corrupted, because they have not sufficient 
nourishment. And on this account their bodies waste away. This 
intemperance in eating is thus injurious to you who have abundance 
and do not distribute among those who are needy. Give heed to the 
judgment that is to come. Ye, therefore, who are high in position, 
seek out the hungry as long as the tower is not yet finished; for 
after the tower is finished, you will wish to do good, but will find 
no opportunity. Give heed, therefore, ye who glory in your wealth, 
lest those who are needy should groan, and their groans should 
ascend to the Lord, and ye be shut out with all your goods 
beyond the gate of the tower. Wherefore I now say to you who preside 
over the Church and love the first seats, "Be not like to 
drug-mixers. For the drug-mixers carry their drugs in boxes, but ye 
carry your drug and poison m your heart. Ye are hardened, and do not 
wish to cleanse your hearts, and to add unity of aim to purity of 
heart, that you may have mercy from the great King. Take heed, 
therefore, children, that these dissensions of yours do not deprive 
you of your life. How will you instruct the elect of the Lord, if 
you yourselves have not instruction? Instruct each other therefore, 
and be at peace among yourselves, that I also, standing joyful 
before your Father, may give an account of you all to your Lord." 
 

CHAPTER X.
On her ceasing to speak to me, those six young men who were 
engaged in building came and conveyed her to the tower, and other 
four lifted up the seat and carried it also to the tower. The faces 
of these last I did not see, for they were turned away from me. And 
as she was going, I asked her to reveal to me the meaning of the 
three forms in which she appeared to me. In reply she said to me: 
"With regard to them, you must ask another to reveal their meaning 
to you." For she had appeared to me, brethren, in the first vision 
the previous year under the form of an exceedingly old woman, 
sitting in a chair. In the second vision her face was youthful, but 
her skin and hair betokened age, and she stood while she spoke to 
me. She was also more joyful than on the first occasion. But in the 
third vision she was entirely youthful and exquisitely beautiful, 
except only that she had the hair of an old woman; but her face 
beamed with joy, and she sat on a seat. Now I was exceeding sad in 
regard to these appearances, for I longed much to know what the 
visions meant. Then I see the old woman in a vision of the night 
saying unto me: "Every prayer should be accompanied with humility: 
fast, therefore, and you will obtain from the Lord what you 
beg." I fasted therefore for one day. 

That very night there appeared to me a young man, who said, "Why 
do you frequently ask revelations in prayer? Take heed lest by 
asking many things you injure your flesh: be content 17 

with these revelations. Will you be able to see greater' 
revelations than those which you have seen?" I answered and said to 
him, "Sir, one thing only I ask, that in regard to these three forms 
the revelation may be rendered complete." He answered me, "How long 
are ye senseless? But your doubts make you senseless, because 
you have not your hearts turned towards the Lord." But I answered 
and said to him, "From you, sir, we shall learn these things more 
accurately." 

CHAPTER XI.
"Hear then," said he, "with regard to the three forms, 
concerning which you are inquiring. Why in the first vision did she 
appear to you as an old woman seated on a chair? Because your spirit 
is now old and withered up, and has lost its power in consequence of 
your infirmities and doubts. For, like elderly men who have no hope 
of renewing their strength, and expect nothing but their last sleep, 
so you, weakened by worldly occupations, have given yourselves up to 
sloth, and have not cast your cares upon the Lord. Your spirit 
therefore is broken, and you have grown old in your sorrows." "I 
should like then to know, sir, why she sat on a chair?" He answered, 
"Because every weak person sits on a chair on account of his 
weakness, that his weakness may be sustained. Lo! you have the form 
of the first vision. 

CHAPTER XII.
"Now in the second vision you saw her standing with a youthful 
countenance, and more joyful than before; still she had the skin and 
hair of an aged woman. Hear," said he, "this parable also. When one 
becomes somewhat old, he despairs of himself on account of his 
weakness and poverty, and looks forward to nothing but the last day 
of his life. Then suddenly an inheritance is left him: and hearing 
of this, he rises up, and becoming exceeding joyful, he puts on 
strength. And now he no longer reclines, but stands up; and his 
spirit, already destroyed by his previous actions, is renewed, 
and he no longer sits, but acts with vigour. So happened it with you 
on hearing the revelation which God gave you. For the Lord had 
compassion on you, and renewed your spirit, and ye laid aside your 
infirmities. Vigour arose within you, and ye grew strong in faith; 
and the Lord, seeing your strength, rejoiced. On this account He 
showed you the building of the tower; and He will show you other 
things, if you continue at peace with each other with all your 
heart. 

CHAPTER XIII.
"Now, in the third vision, you saw her still younger, and she 
was noble and joyful, and her shape was beautiful. For, just as 
when some good news comes suddenly to one who is sad, immediately he 
forgets his former sorrows, and looks for nothing else than the good 
news which he has heard, and for the future is made strong for good, 
and his spirit is renewed on account of the joy which he has 
received; so ye also have received the renewal of your spirits by 
seeing these good things. As to your seeing her sitting on a seat, 
that means that her position is one of strength, for a seat has four 
feet and stands firmly. For the world also is kept together by means 
of four elements. Those, therefore, who repent completely and with 
the whole heart, will become young and firmly established. You now 
have the revelation completely given you? Make no further demands 
for revelations. If anything ought to be revealed, it will be 
revealed to you." 

Fourth Vision CONCERNING THE TRIAL AND TRIBULATION THAT ARE TO COME UPON MEN.
CHAPTER I.
Twenty days after the former vision I saw another vision, 
brethren --a representation of the tribulation that is to 
come. I was going to a country house along the Campanian road. Now 
the house lay about ten furlongs from the public road. The district 
is one rarely traversed. And as I walked alone, I prayed the 
Lord to complete the revelations which He had made to me through His 
holy Church, that He might strengthen me, and give repentance 
to all His servants who were going astray, that His great and 
glorious name might be glorified because He vouchsafed to show me 
His marvels. And while I was glorifying Him and giving Him 
thanks, a voice, as it were, answered me, "Doubt not, Hermas;" and I 
began to think with myself, and to say, "What reason have I to 
doubt--I who have been established by the Lord, and who have seen 
such glorious sights?" I advanced a little, brethren, and, lo! I see 
dust rising even to the heavens. I began to say to myself, "Are 
cattle approaching and raising the dust?" It was about a furlong's 
distance from me. And, 18 

lo! I see the dust rising more and more, so that I imagined that 
it was something sent from God. But the sun now shone out a little, 
and, lo! I see a mighty beast like a whale, and out of its mouth 
fiery locusts proceeded. But the size of that beast was about a 
hundred feet, and it had a head like an urn. I began to weep, 
and to call on the Lord to rescue me from it. Then I remembered the 
word which I had heard, "Doubt not, O Hermas." Clothed, therefore, 
my brethren, with faith in the Lord? and remembering the great 
things which He had taught me, I boldly faced the beast. Now that 
beast came on with such noise and force, that it could itself have 
destroyed a city. I came near it, and the monstrous beast 
stretched itself out on the ground, and showed nothing but its 
tongue, and did not stir at all until I had passed by it. Now the 
beast had four colours on its head-black, then fiery and bloody, 
then golden, and lastly white. 

CHAPTER II.
Now after I had passed by the wild beast, and had moved forward 
about thirty feet, lo! a virgin meets me, adorned as if she were 
proceeding from the bridal chamber, clothed entirely in white, and 
with white sandals, and veiled up to her forehead, and her head was 
covered by a hood.s And she had white hair. I knew from my former 
visions that this was the Church, and I became more joyful. She 
saluted me, and said, "Hail, O man!" And I returned her salutation, 
and said, "Lady, hail!" And she answered. and said to me, "Has 
nothing crossed your path?" I say, "I was met by a beast of such a 
size that it could destroy peoples, but through the power of the 
Lord and His great mercy I escaped from it." "Well did you 
escape from it," says she, "because you cast your care on God, 
 and opened your heart to the Lord, believing that you can be 
saved by no other than by His great and glorious name. On this 
account the Lord has sent His angel, who has rule over the beasts, 
and whose name is Thegri, and has shut up its mouth, so that it 
cannot tear you. You have escaped from great tribulation on account 
of your faith, and because you did not doubt in the presence of such 
a beast. Go, therefore, and tell the elect of the Lord His 
mighty deeds, and say to them that this beast is a type of the great 
tribulation that is coming. If then ye prepare yourselves, and 
repent with all your heart, and turn to the Lord, it will be 
possible for you to escape it, if your heart be pure and spotless, 
and ye spend the rest of the days of your life in serving the Lord 
blamelessly. Cast your cares upon the Lord, and He will direct them. 
Trust the Lord, ye who doubt, for He is all-powerful, and can turn 
His anger away from you, and send scourges" on the doubters. Woe to 
those who hear these words, and despise them: better were it 
for them not to have been born." 

CHAPTER III.
I asked her about the four colours which the beast had on his 
head. And she answered, and said to me, "Again you are inquisitive 
in regard to such matters." "Yea, Lady, said I, "make known to me 
what they are." "Listen," 

said she: "the black is the world in which we dwell: but the 
fiery and bloody points out that the world must perish through blood 
and fire: but the golden part are you who have escaped from this 
world. For as gold is tested by fire, and thus becomes useful, so 
are you tested who dwell in it. Those, therefore, who continue 
stedfast, and are put through the fire, will be purified by means of 
it. For as gold casts away its dross, so also will ye cast away all 
sadness and straitness, and will be made pure so as to fit into the 
building of the tower. But the white part is the age that is to 
come, in which the elect of God will dwell, since those elected by 
God to eternal life will be spotless and pure. Wherefore cease not 
speaking these things into the ears of the saints. This then is the 
type of the great tribulation that is to come. If ye wish it, it 
will be nothing. Remember those things which were written down 
before." And saying this, she departed. But I saw not into what 
place she retired. There was a noise, however, and I turned round in 
alarm, thinking that that beast was coming. 

Fifth Vision CONCERNING THE COMMANDMENTS.
After I had been praying at home, and had sat down on my couch, 
there entered a man of 
glorious aspect, dressed like a shepherd, with a white goat's 
skin, a wallet on his shoulders, and a rod in his hand, and saluted 
me. I returned his salutation. And straightway he sat down beside 
me, and said to me, "I have been sent by a most venerable angel to 
dwell with you the remaining days of your life." And I thought that 
he had come to tempt me, and I said to him, "Who are you? For I know 
him to whom I have been entrusted." He said to me, "Do you not know 
me?" "No," said I. "I," said he, "am that shepherd to whom you have 
been entrusted." And as he was speaking, his figure was changed; and 
then I knew that it was he to whom I had been entrusted. And 
straightway I became confused, and fear took hold of me, and I was 
overpowered with deep sorrow that I had answered him so wickedly and 
foolishly. But he answered, and said to me, "Do not be confounded, 
but receive strength from the commandments which I am going to give 
you. For I have been sent," said he, "to show you again all the 
things which you saw before, especially those of them which are 
useful to you. First of all, then, write down my commandments and 
similitudes, and you will write the other things as I shall show 
you. For this purpose," said he, "I command you to write down the 
commandments and similitudes first, that you may read them easily, 
and be able to keep them." Accordingly I wrote down the 
commandments and similitudes, exactly as he had ordered me. If then, 
when you have heard these, ye keep them and walk in them, and 
practise them with pure minds, you will receive from the Lord all 
that He has promised to you. But if, after you have heard them, ye 
do not repent, but continue to add to your sins, then shall ye 
receive from the Lord the opposite things. All these words did the 
shepherd, even the angel of repentance, command me to write. 

Second Book: Commandments
First Commandment ON FAITH IN GOD.
FIRST Of all, believe that there is one God who created and 
finished all things, and made all things out of nothing. He alone is 
able to contain the whole, but Himself cannot be contained. Have 
faith therefore in Him, and fear Him; and fearing Him, exercise 
self-control. Keep these commands, and you will cast away from you 
all wickedness, and put on the strength of righteousness, and live 
to God, if you keep this commandment.

Second Commandment ON AVOIDING EVIL-SPEAKING, AND ON GIVING ALMS IN SIMPLICITY.
He said to me, "Be simple and guileless, and you will be as the 
children who know not the wickedness that ruins the life of men. 
First, then, speak evil of no one, nor listen with pleasure to any 
one who speaks evil of another. But if you listen, you will partake 
of the sin of him who speaks evil, if you believe the slander which 
you hear; for believing it, you will also have something to say 
against your brother. Thus, then, will you be guilty of the sin of 
him who slanders. For slander is evil and an unsteady demon. It 
never abides in peace, but always remains in discord. Keep yourself 
from it, and you will always be at peace with all. Put on a holiness 
in which there is no wicked cause of offence, but all deeds that are 
equable and joyful. Practise goodness; and from the rewards of your 
labours, which God gives you, give to all the needy in simplicity, 
not hesitating as to whom you are to give or not to give. Give to 
all, for God wishes His gifts to be shared amongst all. They who 
receive, will render an account to God why and for what they have 
received. For the afflicted who receive will not be condemned, 
but they who receive on false pretences will suffer punishment. He, 
then, who gives is guiltless. For as he received from the Lord, so 
has he accomplished his service in simplicity, not hesitating as to 
whom he should give and to whom he should not give. This service, 
then, if accomplished in simplicity, is glorious with God. He, 
therefore, who thus ministers in simplicity, will live to God. 
Keep therefore these commandments, as I have given them to you, that 
your repentance and the repentance of your house may be found in 
simplicity, and your heart may be pure and stainless." 

Third Commandment ON AVOIDING FALSEHOOD, AND ON THE REPENTANCE OF HERMAS FOR HIS DISSIMULATION.
Again he said to me, "Love the truth, and let nothing but truth 
proceed from your mouth, that the spirit which God has placed in 
your flesh may be found truthful before all men; and the Lord, who 
dwelleth in you, will be glorified, because the Lord is truthful 
in every word, and in Him is no falsehood. They therefore who lie 
deny the Lord, and rob Him, not giving back to Him the deposit which 
they have received. For they received from Him a spirit free from 
falsehood. If they give him back this spirit untruthful, they 
pollute the commandment of the Lord, and become robbers." On hearing 
these words, I wept most violently. When he saw me weeping, he said 
to me, "Why do you weep?" And I said, "Because, sir, I know not if I 
can be saved." "Why?" said he. And I said, "Because, sir, I never 
spake a true word in my life, but have ever spoken cunningly to all, 
 and have affirmed a lie for the truth to all; and no one ever 
contradicted me, but credit was given to my word. How then can I 
live, since I have acted thus?" And he said to me, "Your feelings 
are indeed right and sound, for you ought as a servant of God to 
have walked in truth, and not to have joined an evil conscience with 
the spirit of truth, nor to have caused sadness to the holy and true 
Spirit." s And I said to him, "Never, sir, did I listen to these 
words with so much attention." And he said to me, "Now you hear 
them, and keep them, that even the falsehoods which you formerly 
told in your transactions may come to be believed through the 
truthfulness of your present statements. For even they can become 
worthy of credit. If you keep these precepts, and from this time 
forward you speak nothing but the truth, it will be possible for 
you to obtain life. And whosoever shall hear this commandment, and 
depart from that great wickedness falsehood, shall live to God." 

Fourth Commandment ON PUTTING ONE'S WIFE AWAY FOR ADULTERY.
CHAPTER I.
"I charge you," said he, "to guard your chastity, and let no 
thought enter your heart of another man's wife, or of fornication, 
or of similar iniquities; for by doing this you commit a great sin. 
But if you always remember your own wife, you will never sin. For if 
this thought enter your heart, then you will sin; and if, in 
like manner, you think other wicked thoughts, you commit sin. For 
this thought is great sin in a servant of God. But if any one commit 
this wicked deed, he works death for himself. Attend, therefore, and 
refrain from this thought; for where purity dwells, there iniquity 
ought not to enter the heart of a righteous man." I said to him, 
"Sir, permit me to ask you a few questions." "Say on," said he. 
And I said to him, "Sir, if any one has a wife who trusts in the 
Lord, and if he detect her in adultery, does the man sin if he 
continue to live with her?" And he said to me, "As long as he 
remains ignorant of her sin, the husband commits no transgression in 
living with her. But if the husband know that his wife has gone 
astray, and if the woman does not repent, but persists in her 
fornication, and yet the husband continues to live with her, he also 
is guilty of her crime, and a sharer in her adultery." And I said to 
him, "What then, sir, is the husband to do, if his wife continue in 
her vicious practices?" And he said, "The husband should put her 
away, and remain by himself. But if he put his wife away and marry 
another, he also commits adultery." And I said to him, "What if 
the woman put away should repent, and wish to return to her husband: 
shall she not be taken back by her husband?" And he said to me, 
"Assuredly. If the husband do not take her back, he sins, and brings 
a great sin upon himself; for he ought to take back the sinner who 
has repented. But not frequently. For there is but one 
repentance to the servants of God. In case, therefore, that the 
divorced wife may repent, the husband ought not to marry another, 
when his wife has been put away. In this matter man and woman are to 
be treated exactly in the same way. Moreover, adultery is committed 
not only by those who pollute their flesh, but by those who imitate 
the heathen in their actions." Wherefore if any one 
persists in such deeds, and repents not, withdraw from him, and 
cease to live with him. Otherwise you are a sharer in his sin. 
Therefore has the injunction been laid on you, that you should 
remain by yourselves, both man and woman, for in such persons 
repentance can take place. But I do not," said he, "give opportunity 
for the doing of these deeds, but that he who has sinned may sin no 
more. But with regard to his previous transgressions, there is One 
who is able to provide a cure; for it is He, indeed, who has 
power over all." 

CHAPTER II.
I asked him again, and said, "Since the Lord has vouchsafed to 
dwell always with me, hear with me while I utter a few words; 
for I understand nothing, and my heart has been hardened by my 
previous mode of life. Give me understanding, for I am exceedingly 
dull, and I understand absolutely nothing." And he answered and said 
unto me, "I am set over repentance, and I give understanding to all 
who repent. Do you not think," he said, "that it is great wisdom to 
repent? for repentance is great wisdom. For he who has sinned 
understands that he acted wickedly in the sight of the Lord, and 
remembers the actions he has done, and he repents, and no longer 
acts wickedly, but does good munificently, and humbles and torments 
his soul because he has sinned. You see, therefore, that repentance 
is great wisdom." And I said to him, "It is for this reason, sir, 
that I inquire carefully into all things, especially because I am a 
sinner; that I may know what works I should do, that I may live: for 
my sins are many and various." And he said to me, "You shall live if 
you keep my commandments, and walk in them; and whosoever shall 
hear and keep these commandments, shall live to God." 

CHAPTER III.
And I said to him, "I should like to continue my questions." 
"Speak on," said he. And I said, "I heard, sir, some teachers 
maintain that there is no other repentance than that which takes 
place, when we descended into the water and received remission 
of our former sins." He said to me, "That was sound doctrine which 
you heard; for that is really the case. For he who has received 
remission of his sins ought not to sin any more, but to live in 
purity. Since, however, you inquire diligently into all things, I 
will point this also out to you, not as giving occasion for error to 
those who are to believe, or have lately believed, in the Lord. For 
those who have now believed, and those who are to believe, have not 
repentance for their sins; but they have remission of their previous 
sins. For to those who have been called before these days, the Lord 
has set repentance. For the Lord, knowing the heart, and foreknowing 
all things, knew the weakness of men and the manifold wiles of the 
devil, that he would inflict some evil on the servants of God, and 
would act wickedly towards them. The Lord, therefore, being 
merciful, has had mercy on the work of His hand, and has set 
repentance for them; and He has entrusted to me power over this 
repentance. And therefore I say to you, that if any one is tempted 
by the devil, and sins after that great and holy calling. in which 
the Lord has called His people to everlasting life, he has 
opportunity to repent but once. But if he should sin frequently 
after this, and then repent, to such a man his repentance will be of 
no avail; for with difficulty will he live." And I said, "Sir, I 
feel that life has come back to me in listening attentively to these 
commandments; for I know that I shall be saved, if in future I sin 
no more." And he said, "You will be saved, you and all who keep 
these commandments." 

CHAPTER IV.
And again I asked him, saying, "Sir, since you have been so 
patient in listening to me, will you show me this also?" "Speak," 
said he. And I said, "If a wife or husband die, and the widower or 
widow marry, does he or she commit sin?" "There is no sin in 
marrying again," said he; "but if they remain unmarried, they gain 
greater honour and glory with the Lord; but if they marry, they do 
not sin. Guard, therefore, your chastity and purity, and you 
will live to God. What commandments I now give you, and what I am to 
give, keep from henceforth, yea, from the very day when you were 
entrusted to me, and I will dwell in your house. And your former 
sins will be forgiven, if you keep my commandments. And all shall be 
forgiven who keep these my commandments, and walk in this chastity." 

Fifth Commandment OF SADNESS OF HEART, AND OF PATIENCE.
CHAPTER I.
"Be patient," said he, "and of good understanding, and you will 
rule over every wicked work, and you will work all righteousness. 
For if you be patient, the Holy Spirit that dwells in you will be 
pure. He will not be darkened by any evil spirit, but, dwelling in a 
broad region, he will rejoice and be glad; and with the vessel 
in which he dwells he will serve God in gladness, having great peace 
within himself. But if any outburst of anger take place, 
forthwith the Holy Spirit, who is tender, is straitened, not having 
a pure place, and He seeks to depart. For he is choked by the vile 
spirit, and cannot attend on the Lord as he wishes, for anger 
pollutes him. For the Lord dwells in long-suffering, but the devil 
in anger. The two spirits, then, when dwelling in the same 
habitation, are at discord with each other, and are troublesome to 
that man in whom they dwell. For if an exceedingly small piece 
of wormwood be taken and put into a jar of honey, is not the honey 
entirely destroyed, and does not the exceedingly small piece of 
wormwood entirely take away the sweetness of the honey, so that it 
no longer affords any gratification to its owner, but has become 
bitter, and lost its use? But if the wormwood be not put into the 
honey, then the honey remains sweet, and is of use to its owner. You 
see, then, that patience is sweeter than honey, and useful to God, 
and the Lord dwells in it. But anger is bitter and useless. Now, if 
anger be mingled with patience, the patience is polluted, and 
its prayer is not then useful to God." "I should like, sir," said I, 
"to know the power of anger, that I may guard myself against it." 
And he said, "If you do not guard yourself against it, you and your 
house lose all hope of salvation. Guard yourself, therefore, against 
it. For I am with you, and all will depart from it who repent with 
their whole heart. For I will be with them, and I will save them 
all. For all are justified by the most holy angel. 

CHAPTER II.
"Hear now," said he, "how wicked is the action of anger, and in 
what way it overthrows the servants of God by its action, and turns 
them from righteousness. But it does not turn away those who are 
full of faith, nor does it act on them, for the power of the Lord is 
with them. It is the thoughtless and doubting that it turns away. 
 For as soon as it sees such men standing stedfast, it throws 
itself into their hearts, and for nothing at all the man or woman 
becomes embittered on account of occurrences in their daily life, as 
for instance on account of their food, or some superfluous word that 
has been uttered, or on account of some friend, or some gift or 
debt, or some such senseless affair. For all these things are 
foolish and empty and unprofitable to the servants of God. But 
patience is great, and mighty, and strong, and calm in the midst of 
great enlargement, joyful, rejoicing, free from care, glorifying God 
at all times, having no bitterness in her, and abiding continually 
meek and quiet. Now this patience dwells with those who have 
complete faith. But anger is foolish, and fickle, and senseless. 
Now, of folly is begotten bitterness, and of bitterness anger, and 
of anger frenzy. This frenzy, the product of so many evils, ends in 
great and incurable sin. For when all these spirits dwell in one 
vessel in which the Holy Spirit also dwells, the vessel cannot 
contain them, but overflows. The tender Spirit, then, not being 
accustomed to dwell with the wicked spirit, nor with hardness, 
withdraws from such a man, and seeks to dwell with meekness and 
peacefulness. Then, when he withdraws from the man in whom he dwelt, 
the man is emptied of the righteous Spirit; and being henceforward 
filled with evil spirits, he is in a state of anarchy in every 
action, being dragged hither and thither by the evil spirits, and 
there is a complete darkness in his mind as to everything good. 
This, then, is what happens to all the angry. Wherefore do you 
depart from that most wicked spirit anger, and put on patience, and 
resist anger and bitterness, and you will be found in company with 
the purity which is loved by the Lord. Take care, then, that 
you neglect not by any chance this commandment: for if you obey this 
commandment, you will be able to keep all the other commandments 
which I am to give you. Be strong, then, in these commandments, and 
put on power, and 
let all put on power, as many as wish to walk in them." 

Sixth Commandment HOW TO RECOGNISE THE TWO SPIRITS ATTENDANT ON EACH MAN, AND HOW TO DISTINGUISH THE SUGGESTIONS OF THE ONE FROM THOSE OF THE OTHER.
CHAPTER I.
"I gave you," he said, "directions in the first commandment to 
attend to faith, and fear, and self-restraint." "Even so, sir," said 
I. And he said, "Now I wish to show you the powers of these, that 
you may know what power each possesses. For their powers are double, 
and have relation alike to the righteous and the unrighteous. Trust 
you, therefore, the righteous, but put no trust in the unrighteous. 
For the path of righteousness is straight, but that of 
unrighteousness is crooked. But walk in the straight and even way, 
and mind not the crooked. For the crooked path has no roads, but has 
many pathless places and stumbling-blocks in it, and it is rough and 
thorny. It is injurious to those who walk therein. But they who walk 
in the straight road walk evenly without stumbling, because it is 
neither rough nor thorny. You see, then, that it is better to walk 
in this road." "I wish to go by this road," said I. "You will go by 
it," said he; "and whoever turns to the Lord with all his heart will 
walk in it." 

CHAPTER II.
"Hear now," said he, "in regard to faith. There are two angels 
 with a man--one of righteousness, and the other of iniquity." 
And I said to him, "How, sir, am I to know the powers of these, for 
both angels dwell with me?" "Hear," said he, and "understand them. 
The angel of righteousness is gentle and modest, meek and peaceful. 
When, therefore, he ascends into your heart, forthwith he talks 
to you of righteousness, purity, chastity, contentment, and of every 
righteous deed and glorious virtue. When all these ascend into your 
heart, know that the angel of righteousness is with you. These are 
the deeds of the angel of righteousness. Trust him, then, and his 
works. Look now at the works of the angel of iniquity. First, he is 
wrathful, and bitter, and foolish, and his works are evil, and ruin 
the servants of God. When, then, he ascends into your heart, know 
him by his works." And I said to him, "How, sir, I shall perceive 
him, I donor know." "Hear and understand" said he. "When anger comes 
upon you, or harshness, know that he is in you; and you will know 
this to be the case also, when you are attacked by a longing after 
many transactions, and the richest delicacies, and drunken 
revels, and divers luxuries, and things improper, and by a hankering 
after women, and by overreaching, and pride, and blustering, and by 
whatever is like to these. When these ascend into your heart, know 
that the angel of iniquity is in you. Now that you know his works, 
depart from him, and in no respect trust him, because his deeds are 
evil, and unprofitable to the servants of God. These, then, are the 
actions of both angels. Understand them, and trust the angel of 
righteousness; but depart from the angel of iniquity, because his 
instruction is bad in every deed. For though a man be most 
faithful, and the thought of this angel ascend into his heart, 
that man or woman must sin. On the other hand, be a man or woman 
ever so bad, yet, if the works of the angel of righteousness ascend 
into his or her heart, he or she must do something good. You see, 
therefore, that it is good to follow the angel of righteousness, but 
to bid farewell to the angel of iniquity. 

"This commandment exhibits the deeds of faith, that you may 
trust the works of the angel of righteousness, and doing them you 
may live to God. But believe the works of the angel of iniquity are 
hard. If you refuse to do them, you will live to God." 

Seventh Commandment ON FEARING GOD, AND NOT FEARING THE DEVIL.
"Fear," said he, "the Lord, and keep His commandments. For 
if you keep the commandments of God, you will be powerful in every 
action, and every one of your actions will be incomparable. For, 
fearing the Lord, you will do all things well. This is the fear 
which you ought to have, that you may be saved. But fear not the 
devil; for, fearing the Lord, you will have dominion over the devil, 
for there is no power in him. But he in whom there is no power ought 
on no account to be an object of fear; but He in whom there is 
glorious power is truly to be feared. For every one that has power 
ought to be feared; but he who has not 
power is despised by all. Fear, therefore, the deeds of the 
devil, since they are wicked. For, fearing the Lord, you will not do 
these deeds, but will refrain from them. For fears are of two kinds: 
 for if you do not wish to do that which is evil, fear the Lord, 
and you will not do it; but, again, if you wish to do that which is 
good, fear the Lord, and you will do it. Wherefore the fear of the 
Lord is strong, and great, and glorious. Fear, then, the Lord, and 
you will live to Him, and as many as fear Him and keep His 
commandments will live to God." "Why," said I, "sir, did you say 
in regard to those that keep His commandments, that they will live 
to God?" "Because," says he, "all creation fears the Lord, but all 
creation does not keep His commandments. They only who fear the Lord 
and keep His commandments have life with God; but as to those 
who keep not His commandments, there is no life in them." 

Eighth Commandment WE OUGHT TO SHUN THAT WHICH IS EVIL, AND DO THAT WHICH IS GOOD.
"I told you," said he, "that the creatures of God are double, 
for restraint also is double; for in some cases restraint has to 
be exercised in others there is no need of restraint." "Make known 
to me, sir," say I, "in what cases restraint has to be exercised, 
and in what cases it has not." "Restrain yourself in regard to evil, 
and do it not; but exercise no restraint in regard to good, but do 
it. For if you exercise restraint in the doing of good, you will 
commit a great sin; but if you exercise restraint, so as not to 
do that which is evil, you are practising great righteousness. 
Restrain yourself, therefore, from all iniquity, and do that which 
is good." "What, sir," say I, "are the evil deeds from which we must 
restrain ourselves?" "Hear," says he: "from adultery and 
fornication, from unlawful revelling, from wicked luxury, from 
indulgence in many kinds of food and the extravagance of riches, and 
from boastfulness, and haughtiness, and insolence, and lies, and 
backbiting, and hypocrisy, from the remembrance of wrong, and from 
all slander. These are the deeds that are most wicked in the life of 
men. From all these deeds, therefore, the servant of God must 
restrain himself. For he who does not restrain himself from these, 
cannot live to God. Listen, then, to the deeds that accompany 
these." "Are there, sir," said I, "any other evil deeds?" 

"There are," says he; "and many of them, too, from which the 
servant of God must restrain himself--theft, lying, robbery, false 
witness, overreaching, wicked lust, deceit, vainglory, boastfulness, 
and all other vices like to these." "Do you not think that these are 
really wicked?""Exceedingly wicked in the servants of God. From all 
of these the servant of God must restrain himself. Restrain 
yourself, then, from all these, that you may live to God, and you 
will be enrolled amongst those who restrain themselves in regard to 
these matters. These, then, are the things from which you must 
restrain yourself. 

"But listen," says he, "to the things in regard to which you 
have not to exercise self-restraint, but which you ought to do. 
Restrain not yourself in regard to that which is good, but do it." 
"And tell me, sir," say I, "the nature of the good deeds, that I may 
walk in them and wait on them, so that doing them I can be saved." 
"Listen," says he, "to the good deeds which you ought to do, and in 
regard to which there is no self-restraint requisite. 

First of all there is faith, then fear of the Lord, love, 
concord, words of righteousness, truth, patience. Than these, 
nothing is better in the life of men. If any one attend to these, 
and restrain himself not from them, blessed is he in his life. Then 
there are the following attendant on these: helping widows, looking 
after orphans and the needy, rescuing the servants of God from 
necessities, the being hospitable--for in hospitality good-doing 
finds a field--never opposing any one, the being quiet, having fewer 
needs than all men, reverencing the aged, practising righteousness, 
watching the brotherhood, bearing insolence, being long-suffering, 
encouraging those who are sick in soul, not casting those who have 
fallen into sin from the faith, but turning them back and restoring 
them to peace of mind, admonishing sinners, not oppressing debtors 
and the needy, and if there are any other actions like these. Do 
these seem to you good?" says he. "For what, sir," say I, "is better 
than these?" "Walk then in them," says he, "and restrain not 
yourself from them, and you will live to God. Keep, therefore, 
this commandment. If you do good, and restrain not yourself from it, 
you will live to God. All who act thus will live to God. And, again, 
if you refuse to do evil, and restrain yourself from it, you will 
live to God. And all will live to God who keep these commandments, 
and walk in them." 

Ninth Commandment PRAYER MUST BE MADE TO GOD WITHOUT CEASING AND WITH UNWAVERING CONFIDENCE.
He says to me, "Put away doubting from you and do not hesitate 
to ask of the Lord, saying to yourself, 'How can I ask of the Lord 
and receive from Him, seeing I have sinned so much against Him?' Do 
not thus reason with yourself, but with all your heart turn to the 
Lord and ask of Him without doubting, and you will know the 
multitude of His tender mercies; that He will never leave you, but 
fulfil the request of your soul. For He is not like men, who 
remember evils done against them; but He Himself remembers not 
evils, and has compassion on His own creature, Cleanse, therefore, 
your heart from all the vanities of this world, and from the words 
already mentioned, and ask of the Lord and you will receive all, and 
in none of your requests will you be denied which you make to the 
Lord without doubting. But if you doubt in your heart, you will 
receive none of your requests. For those who doubt regarding God are 
double-souled, and obtain not one of their requests. But those 
who are perfect in faith ask everything, trusting in the Lord; and 
they obtain, because they ask nothing doubting, and not being 
double-souled. For every double-souled man, even if he repent, will 
with difficulty be saved. Cleanse your heart, therefore, from 
all doubt, and put on faith, because it is strong, and trust God 
that you will obtain from Him all that you ask. And if at any time, 
after you have asked of the Lord, you are slower in obtaining your 
request [than you expected], do not doubt because you have not soon 
obtained the request of your soul; for invariably it is on account 
of some temptation or some sin of which you are ignorant that you 
are slower in obtaining your request. Wherefore do not cease to make 
the request of your soul, and you will obtain it. But if you grow 
weary and waver in your request, blame yourself, and not Him who 
does not give to you. Consider this doubting state of mind, for it 
is wicked and senseless, and turns many away entirely from the 
faith, even though they be very strong. For this doubting is the 
daughter of the devil, and acts exceedingly wickedly to the servants 
of God. Despise, then, doubting, and gain the mastery over it in 
everything; clothing yourself with faith, which is strong and 
powerful. For faith promises all things, perfects all things; but 
doubt having no thorough faith in itself, fails in every work which 
it undertakes. You see, then," says he, "that, faith is from 
above--from the Lord --and has great power; but doubt is an 
earthly spirit, coming from the devil, and has no power. Serve, 
then, that which has power, namely faith, and keep away from doubt, 
which has no power, and you will live to God. And all will live to 
God whose minds have been set on these things." 

Second Book: CommandmentsTenth Commandment OF GRIEF, AND NOT GRIEVING THE SPIRIT OF GOD WHICH IS IN US.
CHAPTER I.
"Remove from you," says he, "grief; for she is the sister of 
doubt and anger." "How, sir," say I, "is she the sister of these? 
for anger, doubt, and grief seem to be quite different from each 
other." "You are senseless, O man. 

Do you not perceive that grief is more wicked than all the 
spirits, and most terrible to the servants of God, and more than all 
other spirits destroys man and crushes out the Holy Spirit, and yet, 
on the other hand, she saves him?" 

"I am senseless, sir," say I, "and do not understand these 
parables. For how she can crush out, and on the other hand save, I 
do not perceive." "Listen," 

says he. "Those who have never searched for the truth, nor 
investigated the nature of the Divinity, but have simply believed, 
when they devote themselves to and become mixed up with business, 
and wealth, and heathen friendships, and many other actions of this 
world, do not perceive the parables of Divinity; for their minds 
are darkened by these actions, and they are corrupted and become 
dried up. Even as beautiful vines, when they are neglected, are 
withered up by thorns and divers plants, so men who have believed, 
and have afterwards fallen away into many of those actions above 
mentioned, go astray in their minds, and lose all understanding in 
regard to righteousness; for if they hear of righteousness, their 
minds are occupied with their business, 

and they give no heed at all. Those, on the other hand, who have 
the fear of God, and search after Godhead and truth, and have their 
hearts turned to the Lord, quickly perceive and understand what is 
said to them, because they have the fear of the Lord in them. For 
where the Lord dwells, there is much understanding. Cleave, then, to 
the Lord, and you will understand and perceive all things. 

CHAPTER II.
"Hear, then," says he, "foolish man, how grief crushes out the 
Holy Spirit, and on the 27 

other hand saves. When the doubting man attempts any deed, and 
fails in it on account of his doubt, this grief enters into the man, 
and grieves the Holy Spirit, and crushes him out. Then, on the other 
hand, when anger attaches itself to a man in regard to any matter, 
and he is embittered, then grief enters into the heart of the man 
who was irritated, and he is grieved at the deed which he did, and 
repents that he has wrought a wicked deed. This grief, then, appears 
to be accompanied by salvation, because the man, after having done a 
wicked deed, repented. Both actions grieve the Spirit: doubt, 
because it did not accomplish its object; and anger grieves the 
Spirit, because it did what was wicked. Both these are grievous to 
the Holy Spirit--doubt and anger. Wherefore remove grief from you, 
and crush not the Holy Spirit which dwells in you, lest he entreat 
God against you, and he withdraw from you. For the Spirit of God 
which has been granted to us to dwell in this body does not endure 
grief nor straitness. Wherefore put on cheerfulness, which always is 
agreeable and acceptable to God, and rejoice in it. For every 
cheerful man does what is good, and minds what is good, and despises 
grief; but the sorrowful man always acts wickedly. First, he 
acts wickedly because he grieves the Holy Spirit, which was given to 
man a cheerful Spirit. Secondly, Grieving the Holy Spirit, he 
works iniquity, neither entreating the Lord nor confessing to 
Him. For the entreaty of the sorrowful man has no power to ascend to 
the altar of God." "Why," say I, "does not the entreaty of the 
grieved man ascend to the altar?" "Because," says he, "grief sits in 
his heart. Grief, then, mingled with his entreaty, does not permit 
the entreaty to ascend pure to the altar of God. For as vinegar and 
wine, when mixed in the same vessel, do not give the same pleasure 
[as wine alone gives], so grief mixed. with the Holy Spirit does not 
produce the same entreaty [as would be produced by the Holy Spirit 
alone]. Cleanse yourself from this wicked grief, and you will live 
to God; and all will live to God who drive away grief from them, and 
put on all cheerfulness." 

Eleventh Commandment THE SPIRIT AND PROPHETS TO BE TRIED BY THEIR WORKS; ALSO OF THE TWO KINDS OF SPIRIT.
He pointed out to me some men sitting on a seat, and one man 
sitting on a chair. And he says to me, "Do you see the persons 
sitting on the seat?" "I do, sir," said I. "These," says he, "are 
the faithful, and he who sits on the chair is a false prophet, 
ruining the minds of the servants of God. It is the doubters, 
not the faithful, that he ruins. These doubters then go to him as to 
a soothsayer, and inquire of him what will happen to them; and he, 
the false prophet, not having the power of a Divine Spirit in him, 
answers them according to their inquiries, and according to their 
wicked desires, and fills their souls with expectations, according 
to their own wishes. For being himself empty, he gives empty answers 
to empty inquirers; for every answer is made to the emptiness of 
man. Some true words he does occasionally utter; for the devil fills 
him with his own spirit, in the hope that he may be able to overcome 
some of the righteous. As many, then, as are strong in the faith of 
the Lord, and are clothed with truth, have no connection with such 
spirits, but keep away from them; but as many as are of doubtful 
minds and frequently repent, betake themselves to soothsaying, even 
as the heathen, and bring greater sin upon themselves by their 
idolatry. For he who inquires of a false prophet in regard to any 
action is an idolater, and devoid of the truth, and foolish. For no 
spirit given by God requires to be asked; but such a spirit having 
the power of Divinity speaks all things of itself, for it proceeds 
from above from the power of the Divine Spirit. But the spirit which 
is asked and speaks according to the desires of men is earthly, 
light, and powerless, and it is altogether silent if it is not 
questioned." "How then, sir," say I, "will a man know which of them 
is the prophet, and which the false prophet?" "I will tell you," 
says he, "about both the prophets, and then you can try the true and 
the false prophet according to my directions. Try the man who has 
the Divine Spirit by his life. First, he who has the Divine Spirit 
proceeding from above is meek, and peaceable, and humble, and 
refrains from, all iniquity and the vain desire of this world, and 
contents himself with fewer wants than those of other men, and when 
asked he makes no reply; nor does he speak privately, nor when man 
wishes the spirit to speak does the Holy Spirit speak, but it speaks 
only when God wishes it to speak. When, then, a man having the 
Divine Spirit comes into an assembly of righteous men who
have faith in the Divine Spirit, and this assembly of men offers 
up prayer to God, then the angel of the prophetic Spirit, who is 
destined for him, fills the man; and the man being filled with the 
Holy Spirit, speaks to the multitude as the Lord wishes. Thus, then, 
will the Spirit of Divinity become manifest. Whatever power 
therefore comes from the Spirit of Divinity belongs to the Lord. 
Hear, then," says he, "in regard to the spirit which is earthly, and 
empty, and powerless, and foolish. First, the man who seems to 
have the Spirit exalts himself, and wishes to have the first seat, 
and is bold, and impudent, and talkative, and lives in the midst of 
many luxuries and many other delusions, and takes rewards for his 
prophecy; and if he does not receive rewards, he does not prophesy. 
Can, then, the Divine Spirit take rewards and prophesy? It is not 
possible that the prophet of God should do this, but prophets of 
this character are possessed by an earthly spirit. Then it never 
approaches an assembly of righteous men, but shuns them. And it 
associates with doubters and the vain, and prophesies to them in a 
comer, and deceives them, speaking to them, according to their 
desires, mere empty words: 
for they are empty to whom it gives its answers. For the empty 
vessel, when placed along with the empty, is not Crashed, but they 
correspond to each other. When, therefore, it comes into an assembly 
of righteous men who have a Spirit of Divinity, and they offer up 
prayer, that man is made empty, and the earthly spirit tees from him 
through fear, and that man is made dumb, and is entirely crashed, 
being unable to speak. For if you pack closely a storehouse with 
wine or oil, and put an empty jar in the midst of the vessels of 
wine or oil, you will find that jar empty as when you placed it, if 
you should wish to clear the storehouse. So also the empty prophets, 
when they come to the spirits of the righteous, are found [on 
leaving] to be such as they were when they came. This, then, is the 
mode of life of both prophets. Try by his deeds and his life the man 
who says that he is inspired. But as for you, trust the Spirit which 
comes from God, and has power; but the spirit which is earthly and 
empty trust not at all, for there is no power in it: it comes from 
the devil. Hear, then, the parable which I am to tell you. Take a 
stone, and throw it to the sky, and see if you can touch it. Or 
again, take a squirt of water and squirt into the sky, and see if 
you can penetrate the sky." "How, sir," 
say I, "can these things take place? for both of them are 
impossible." "As these things," says he, "are impossible, so also 
are the earthly spirits powerless and pithless. But look, on the 
other hand, at the power which comes from above. Hail is of the size 
of a very small grain, yet when it falls on a man's head how much 
annoyance it gives him! Or, again, take the drop which falls from a 
pitcher to the ground, and yet it hollows a stone. You see, 
then, that the smallest things coming from above have great power 
when they fall upon the earth. Thus also is the Divine Spirit, 
which comes from above, powerful. Trust, then, that Spirit, but have 
nothing to do with the other." 

Twelfth Commandment ON THE TWOFOLD DESIRE. THE COMMANDMENTS OF GOD CAN BE KEPT, AND BELIEVERS OUGHT NOT TO FEAR THE DEVIL.
CHAPTER I.
He says to me, "Put away from you all wicked desire, and clothe 
yourself with good and chaste desire; for clothed with this desire 
you will hate wicked desire, and will rein yourself in even as 
you wish. For wicked desire is wild, and is with difficulty tamed. 
For it is terrible, and consumes men exceedingly by its wildness. 
Especially is the servant of God terribly consumed by it, if he 
falls into it and is devoid of understanding. Moreover, it consumes 
all such as have not on them the garment of good desire, but are 
entangled and mixed up with this world. These it delivers up to 
death." "What then, sir," say I, "are the deeds of wicked desire 
which deliver men over to death? Make them known to me, and I will 
refrain from them." "Listen, then, to the works in which evil desire 
slays the servants of God." 

CHAPTER II.
"Foremost of all is the desire after another's wife or husband, 
and after extravagance, and many useless dainties and drinks, and 
many other foolish luxuries; for all luxury is foolish and empty in 
the servants of God. These, then, are the evil desires which slay 
the servants of God. For this evil desire is the daughter of the 
devil. You must refrain from evil desires, that by refraining ye may 
live to God. But as many as are mastered by them, and do not 
resist them, will perish at last, for these desires are fatal. Put 
you on, then, the desire of righteousness; and arming yourself with 
the fear of the Lord, 29 

resist them. For the fear of the Lord dwells in good desire. But 
if evil desire see you armed with the fear of God, and resisting 
it, it will flee far from you, and it will no longer appear to you, 
for it fears your armour. Go, then, garlanded with the crown which 
you have gained for victory over it, to the desire of righteousness, 
and, delivering up to it the prize which you have received, serve it 
even as it wishes. If you serve good desire, and be subject to 
it, you will gain the mastery over evil desire, and make it subject 
to you even as you wish." 

CHAPTER III.
"I should like to how," say I, "in what way I ought to serve 
good desire." "Hear," says he: "You will practise righteousness and 
virtue, truth and the fear of the Lord, faith and meekness, and 
whatsoever excellences are like to these. Practising these, you will 
be a well-pleasing servant of God, and you will live to Him; and 
every one who shall serve good desire, shall live to God." 

He concluded the twelve commandments, and said to me, "You have 
now these commandments. Walk in them, and exhort your hearers that 
their repentance may be pure during the remainder of their life. 
Fulfil carefully this ministry which I now entrust to you, and you 
will accomplish much. For you will find favour among those who 
are to repent, and they will give heed to your words; for I will be 
with you, and will compel them to obey you." I say to him, "Sir, 
these commandments are great, and good, and glorious, and fitted to 
gladden the heart of the man who can perform them. But I do not know 
if these commandments can be kept by man, because they are exceeding 
hard." He answered and said to me, "If you lay it down as certain 
that they can be kept, then you will easily keep them, and they 
will not be hard. But if you come to imagine that they cannot be 
kept by man, then you will not keep them. Now I 

say to you, If you do not keep them, but neglect them, you will 
not be saved, nor your children, nor your house, since you have 
already determined for yourself that these commandments cannot be 
kept by man." 

CHAPTER IV.
These things he said to me in tones of the deepest anger, so 
that I was confounded and exceedingly afraid of him, for his figure 
was altered so that a man could not endure his anger. But seeing me 
altogether agitated and confused, he began to speak to me in more 
gentle tones; and he said: "O feel, senseless and doubting, do you 
not perceive how great is the glory of God, and how strong and 
marvellous, in that He created the world for the sake of man, 
and subjected all creation to him, and gave him power to rule over 
everything under heaven? If, then, man is lord of the creatures of 
God, and rules over all, is he not able to be lord also of these 
commandments? For," says he, "the man who has the Lord in his heart 
can also be lord of all, and of every one of these commandments. But 
to those who have the Lord only on their lips, but their hearts 
hardened, and who are far from the Lord, the commandments are 
hard and difficult. Put, therefore, ye who are empty and fickle in 
yoUr faith, the Lord in your heart, and ye will know that there is 
nothing easier or sweeter, or more manageable, than these 
commandments. Return, ye who walk in the commandments of the devil, 
in hard, and bitter, and wild licentiousness, and fear not the 
devil; for there is no power in him against you, for I will be with 
you, the angel of repentance, who am lord over him. The devil has 
fear only, but his fear has no strength. Fear him not, then, and 
he will flee from you." 

CHAPTER V.
I say to him, "Sir, listen to me for a moment." "Say what you 
wish," says he. "Man, sir," say I, "is eager to keep the 
commandments of God, and there is no one who does not ask of the 
Lord that strength may be given him for these commandments, and that 
he may be subject to them; but the devil is hard, and holds sway 
over them." "He cannot," says he, "hold sway over the servants of 
God, who with all their heart place their hopes in Him. The devil 
can wrestle against these, overthrow them he cannot. If, then, ye 
resist him, he will be conquered, and flee in disgrace from you. As 
many, therefore," says he, "as are empty, fear the devil, as 
possessing power. When a man has filled very suitable jars with good 
wine, and a few among those jars are left empty, then he comes 
to the jars, and does not look at the full jars, for he knows that 
they are full; but he looks at the empty, being afraid lest they 
have become sour. For empty jars quickly become sour, and the 
goodness of the wine is gone. So also the devil goes to all 30 

the servants of God to try them. As many, then, as are full in 
the faith, resist him strongly, and he withdraws from them, having 
no way by which he might enter them. He goes, then, to the empty, 
and finding a way of entrance, into them, he produces in them 
whatever he wishes, and they become his servants. 

CHAPTER VI.
"But I, the angel of repentance, say to you Fear not the devil; 
for I was sent," says he, "to be with you who repent with all your 
heart, and to make you strong in faith. Trust God, then, ye who 
on account of your sins have despaired of life, and who add to your 
sins and weigh down your life; for if ye return to the Lord with all 
your heart, and practise righteousness the rest of your days, 
and serve Him according to His will, He will heal your former sins, 
and you will have power to hold sway over the works of the devil. 
But as to the threats of the devil, fear them not at all, for he is 
powerless as the sinews of a dead man. Give ear to me, then, and 
fear Him who has all power, both to save and destroy, and keep 
His commandments, and ye will live to God." I say to him, "Sir, I am 
now made strong in all the ordinances of the Lord, because you are 
with me; and I know that you will crush all the power of the devil, 
and we shall have rule over him, and shall prevail against all his 
works. And I hope, sir, to be able to keep all these commandments s 
which you have enjoined upon me, the Lord strengthening me." "You 
will keep them," says he, "if your heart be pure towards the Lord; 
and all will keep them who cleanse their hearts from the vain 
desires of this world, and they will live to God." 

Third Book: Similitudes
First Similitude AS IN THIS WORLD WE HAVE NO ABIDING CITY, WE OUGHT TO 
SEEK ONE TO COME.
HE says to me, "You know that you who are the servants of God 
dwell in a strange land; for your city is far away from this one. 
 If, then," he continues, "you know your city in which you are to 
dwell, why do ye here provide lands, and make expensive 
preparations, and accumulate dwellings and useless buildings? He who 
makes such preparations for this city cannot return again to his 
own. Oh foolish, and unstable, and miserable man! Dost thou not 
understand that all these things belong to another, and are under 
the power of another? for the lord of this city will say, 'I do not 
wish thee to dwell in my city; but depart from this city, because 
thou obeyest not my laws.' Thou, therefore, although having fields 
and houses, and many other things, when cast out by him, what wilt 
thou do with thy land, and house, and other possessions which thou 
hast gathered to thyself? For the lord of this country justly says 
to thee, 'Either obey my laws or depart from my dominion.' What, 
then, dost thou intend to do, having a law in thine own city, on 
account of thy lands, and the rest of thy possessions? Thou 
shalt altogether deny thy law, and walk according to the law of this 
city. See lest it be to thy hurt to deny thy law; for if thou 
shalt desire to return to thy city, thou wilt not be received, 
because thou hast denied the law of thy city, but wilt be excluded 
from it. Have a care, therefore: as one living in a foreign land, 
make no further preparations for thyself than such merely as may be 
sufficient; and be ready, when the master of this city shall come to 
cast thee out for disobeying his law, to leave his city, and to 
depart to thine own, and to obey thine own law without being exposed 
to annoyance, but in great joy. Have a care, then, ye who serve the 
Lord, and have Him in your heart, that ye work the works of God, 
remembering His commandments and promises which He promised, and 
believe that He will bring them to pass if His commandments be 
observed. Instead of lands, therefore, buy afflicted souls, 
according as each one is able, and visit s widows and orphans, and 
do not overlook them; and spend your wealth and all your 
preparations, which ye received from the Lord, upon such lands and 
houses. For to this end did the Master make you rich, that you might 
perform these services unto Him; and it is much better to purchase 
such lands, and possessions, and houses, as you will find in your 
own city, when you come to reside in it. This is a noble and sacred 
expenditure, attended neither with sorrow nor fear, but with joy. Do 
not practise the expenditure of the heathen, 
for it is injurious to you who are 
the servants of God; but practise an expenditure of your own, in 
which ye can rejoice; and do not corrupt nor touch what is 
another's nor covet it, for it is an evil thing to covet the goods 
of other men; but work thine own work, and thou wilt be saved." 

Second Similitude AS THE VINE IS SUPPORTED BY THE ELM, SO IS THE RICH MAN HELPER BY THE PRAYER OF THE POOR.
AS I was walking in the field, and observing an elm and vine, 
and determining in my own, mind respecting them and their fruits, 
the Shepherd appears to me, and says, "What is it that you are 
thinking about the elm and vine?" "I am considering," I reply, "that 
they become each other exceedingly well." "These two trees," he 
continues, "are intended as an example for the servants of God." "I 
would like to know," said I, "the example which these trees you say, 
are intended to teach." "Do you see," he says, "the elm and the 
vine?" "I see them sir," I replied. "This vine," he continued, 
"produces fruit, and the elm is an unfruitful tree; but unless the 
vine be trained upon the elm, it cannot bear much fruit when 
extended at length upon the ground; and the fruit which it does 
bear is rotten, because the plant is not suspended upon the elm. 
When, therefore, the vine is cast upon the elm, it yields fruit 
both, from itself and from the elm. You see, moreover, that the elm 
also produces much fruit, not less than the vine, but even more; 
because," he continued, "the vine, when suspended upon the elm, 
yields much fruit, and good; but when thrown upon the ground, what 
it produces is small and rotten. This similitude, therefore, is 
for the servants of God--for the poor man and for the rich." "How 
so, sir?" said I; "explain the matter to me." "Listen," he said: 
"The rich man has much wealth, but is poor in matters relating to 
the Lord, because he is distracted about his riches; and he offers 
very few confessions and intercessions to the Lord, and those which 
he does offer are small and weak, and have no power above. But when 
the rich man refreshes the poor, and assists him in his 
necessities, believing that what he does to the poor man will be 
able to find its reward with God--because the poor man is rich in 
intercession and confession, and his intercession has great power 
with God--then the rich man helps the poor in all things without 
hesitation; and the poor man, being helped by the rich, intercedes 
for him, giving thanks to God for him who bestows gifts upon him. 
And he still continues to interest himself zealously for the poor 
man, that his wants may be constantly supplied. For he knows that 
the intercession of the poor man is acceptable and influential 
with God. Both, accordingly, accomplish their work. The poor man 
makes intercession; a work in which he is rich, which he received 
from the Lord, and with which he recompenses the master who helps 
him. And the rich man, in like manner, unhesitatingly bestows upon 
the poor man the riches which he received from the Lord. And this is 
a great work, and acceptable before God, because he understands the 
object of his wealth, and has given to the poor of the gifts of the 
Lord, and rightly discharged his service to Him. Among men, 
however, the elm appears not to produce fruit, and they do not know 
nor understand that if a drought come, the elm, which contains 
water, nourishes the vine l and the vine, having an unfailing supply 
of water, yields double fruit both for itself and for the elm. So 
also poor men interceding with the Lord on behalf of the rich, 
increase their riches; and the rich, again, aiding the poor in their 
necessities, satisfy their souls. Both, therefore, are partners in 
the righteous work. He who does these things shall not be deserted 
by God, but shall be enrolled in the books of the living. Blessed 
are they who have riches, and who understand that they are from the 
Lord. [For they who are of that mind will be able to do some good.]" 

Third Similitude AS IN WINTER GREEN TREES CANNOT BE DISTINGUISHED FROM WITHERED, SO IN THIS WORLD NEITHER CAN THE JUST FROM THE UNJUST.
He showed me many trees having no leaves,
but withered, as it seemed to me; for all were alike. And he 
said to me, "Do you see those trees?" "I see, sir," I replied, "that 
all are alike, and withered." He answered me, and said, "These trees 
which you see are those who dwell in this world." "Why, then, sir," 
I said, "are they withered, as it were, and alike?" "Because," 
he said, "neither are the righteous manifest in this life, nor 
sinners, but they are alike; for this life is a winter to the 
righteous, and they do not manifest themselves, because they dwell 
with sinners: for as in winter trees that have cast their leaves are 
alike, and it is not seen which are dead and which are living, so in 
this world neither do the righteous show themselves, nor sinners, 
but all are alike one to another." 

Fourth Similitude AS IN SUMMER LIVING TREES ARE DISTINGUISHED FROM WITHERED BY FRUIT AND LIVING LEAVES, SO IN THE WORLD TO COME THE JUST DIFFER FROM THE UNJUST IN HAPPINESS.
He showed me again many trees, some budding, and others 
withered. And he said to me, "Do you see these trees?" "I see, sir," 
I replied, "some putting forth buds, and others withered." "Those," 
he said, "which are budding are the righteous who are to live in the 
world to come; for the coming world is the summer of the 
righteous, but the winter of sinners. When, therefore, the mercy of 
the Lord shines forth, then shall they be made manifest who are the 
servants of God, and all men shall be made manifest. For as in 
summer the fruits of each individual tree appear, and it is 
ascertained of what sort they are, so also the fruits of the 
righteous shall be manifest, and all who have been fruitful in that 
world shall be made known. But the heathen and sinners, like the 
withered trees which you saw, will be found to be those who have 
been withered and unfruitful in that world, and shall be burnt as 
wood, and made manifest, because their actions were evil during 
their lives. For the sinners shall be consumed because they sinned 
and did not repent, and the heathen shall be burned because they 
knew not Him who created them. Do you therefore bear fruit, that in 
that summer your fruit may be known. And refrain from much business, 
and you will never sin: for they who are occupied with much business 
commit also many sins, being distracted about their affairs, and not 
at all serving their Lord. How, then," he continued, "can such a 
one ask and obtain anything from the Lord, if he serve Him not? They 
who serve Him shall obtain their requests, but they who serve Him 
not shall receive nothing. And in the performance even of a single 
action a man can serve the Lord; for his mind will not be perverted 
from the Lord, but he will serve Him, having a pure mind. If, 
therefore, you do these things, you shall be able to bear fruit for 
the life to come. And every one who will do these things shall bear 
fruit." 

Fifth Similitude OF TRUE FASTING AND ITS REWARD: ALSO OF PURITY OF BODY.
CHAPTER I.
While fasting and sitting on a certain mountain, and giving 
thanks to the Lord for all His dealings with me, I see the Shepherd 
sitting down beside me, and saying, "Why have you come hither 
early in the morning?" "Because, sir," I answered, "I have a 
station." "What is a station?" he asked. "I am fasting, sir," I 
replied. "What is this fasting," he continued, "which you are 
observing?" "As I have been accustomed, sir," I reply, "so I fast." 
"You do not know," he says, "how to fast unto the Lord: this useless 
fasting which you observe to HIm is of no value." "Why, sir," I 
answered, "do you say this?" "I say to you," he continued, "that the 
fasting which you think you observe is not a fasting. But I will 
teach you what is a full and acceptable fasting to the Lord. 
Listen," he continued: "God does not desire such an empty fasting? 
For fasting to God in this way you will do nothing for a righteous 
life; but offer to God a fasting of the following kind: Do no evil 
in your life, and serve the Lord with a pure heart: keep His 
commandments, walking in His precepts, and let no evil desire arise 
in your heart; and believe in God. If you do these things, and fear 
Him, and abstain from every evil thing, you will live unto God; and 
if you do these things, you will keep a great fast, and one 
acceptable before God. 

CHAPTER II.
"Hear the similitude which I am about to narrate to you relative 
to fasting. A certain man had a field and many slaves, and he 
planted a certain part of the field with a vineyard, and 
selecting a faithful and beloved and much valued slave, he called 
him to him, and said, 'Take 
this vineyard which I have planted, and stake it until I 
come, and do nothing else to the vineyard; and attend to this order 
of mine, and you shall receive your freedom from me.' And the master 
of the slave departed to a foreign country. And when he was gone, 
the slave took and staked the vineyard; and when he had finished the 
staking of the vines, he saw that the vineyard was full of weeds. He 
then reflected, saying, 'I have kept this order of my master: I will 
dig up the rest of this vineyard, and it will be more beautiful when 
dug up; and being free of weeds, it will yield more fruit, not being 
choked by them.' He took, therefore, and dug up the vineyard, and 
rooted out all the weeds that were in it. And that vineyard became 
very beautiful and fruitful, Having no weeds to choke it. And after 
a certain time the master of the slave and of the field returned, 
and entered into the vineyard. And seeing that the vines were 
suitably supported on stakes, and the ground, moreover, dug up, and 
all the weeds rooted out, and the vines fruitful, he was greatly 
pleased with the work of his slave. And calling his beloved son who 
was his heir, and his friends who were his councillors, he told them 
what orders he had given his slave, and what he had found performed. 
And they rejoiced along with the slave at the testimony which his 
master bore to him. And he said to them, 'I promised this slave 
freedom if he obeyed the command which I gave him; and he has kept 
my command, and done besides a good work to the vineyard, and has 
pleased me exceedingly. In return, therefore, for the work which he 
has done, I wish to make him co-heir with my son, because, having 
good thoughts, he did not neglect them, but carried them out.' With 
this resolution of the master his son and friends were well pleased, 
viz., that the slave should be co-heir with the son. After a few 
days the master made a feast, and sent to his slave many dishes 
from his table. And the slave receiving the dishes that were sent 
him from his master, took of them what was sufficient for himself, 
and distributed the rest among his fellow-slaves. And his 
fellow-slaves rejoiced to receive the dishes, and began to pray for 
him, that he might find still greater favour with his master for 
having so treated them. His master heard all these things that were 
done, and was again greatly pleased with his conduct. And the master 
again calling; together his friends and his son, reported to them 
the slave's proceeding with regard to the dishes which he had sent 
him. And they were still more satisfied that the slave should become 
co-heir with his son." 

CHAPTER III.
I said to him, "Sir, I do not see the meaning of these 
similitudes, nor am I able to comprehend them, unless you explain 
them to me." "I will explain them all to you," he said, "and 
whatever I shall mention in the course of our conversations I will 
show you. [Keep the commandments of the Lord, and you will be 
approved, and inscribed amongst the number of those who observe His 
commands.] And if you do any good beyond what is commanded by God, 
 you will gain for yourself more abundant glory, and will be more 
honoured by God than you would otherwise be. If, therefore, in 
keeping the commandments of God, you do, in addition, these 
services, you will have joy if you observe them according to my 
command." I said to him, "Sir, whatsoever you enjoin upon me I will 
observe, for I know that you are with me." "I will be with you," he 
replied, "because you have such a desire for doing good; and I will 
be with all those," he added, "who have such a desire. This 
fasting," he continued, "is very good, provided the commandments of 
the Lord be observed. Thus, then, shall you observe the fasting 
which you intend to keep. First of all, be on your guard 
against every evil word, and every evil desire, and purify your 
heart from all the vanities of this world. If you guard against 
these things, your fasting will be perfect. And you will do also as 
follows. Having fulfilled what is written, in the day on which 
you fast you will taste nothing but bread and water; and having 
reckoned up the price of the dishes of that day which you intended 
to have eaten, you will give it to a widow, or an orphan, or to some 
person in want, and thus you will exhibit humility of mind, so that 
he who has received benefit from your humility may fill his own 
soul, and pray for you to the Lord. If you observe fasting, as I 
have commanded you, your sacrifice 
will be acceptable to God, and this fasting will be written 
down; and the service thus performed is noble, and sacred, and 
acceptable to the Lord. These things, therefore, shall you thus 
observe with your children, and all your house, and in observing 
them you will be blessed; and as many as hear these words and 
observe them shall be blessed; and whatsoever they ask of the Lord 
they shall receive." 

CHAPTER IV.
I prayed him much that he would explain to me the similitude of 
the field, and of the master of the vineyard, and of the slave who 
staked the vineyard, and of the sakes, and of the weeds that were 
plucked out of the vineyard, and of the son, and of the friends who 
were fellow-councillors, for I knew that all these things were a 
kind of parable. And he answered me, and said, "You are exceedingly 
persistent with your questions. You ought not," he continued, 
"to ask any questions at all; for if it is needful to explain 
anything, it will be made known to you." I said to him "Sir 
whatsoever you show me, and do not explain, I shall have seen to no 
purpose, not understanding its meaning. In like manner, also, if you 
speak parables to me, and do not unfold them, I shall have heard 
your words in vain." And he answered me again, saying, "Every one 
who is the servant of God, and has his Lord in his heart, asks of 
Him understanding, and receives it, and opens up every parable; and 
the words of the Lord become known to him which are spoken in 
parables? But those who are weak and slothful in prayer, hesitate to 
ask anything from the Lord; but the Lord is full of compassion, and 
gives without fail to all who ask Him. But you, having been 
strengthened by the holy Angel, and having obtained from Him 
such intercession, and not being slothful, why do not you ask of the 
Lord understanding, and receive it from Him?" I said to him, "Sir, 
having you with me, I am necessitated to ask questions of you, for 
you show me all things, and converse with me; but if I 
were to see or hear these things without you, I would then ask 
the Lord to explain them." 

CHAPTER V.
"I said to you a little ago," he answered, "that you were 
cunning and obstinate in asking explanations of the parables; but 
since you are so persistent, I shall unfold to you the meaning of 
the similitudes of the field, and of all the others that follow, 
that you may make them known to every one. Hear now," he said, 
"and understand them. The field is this world; and the Lord of the 
field is He who created, and perfected, and strengthened all things; 
[and the son is the Holy Spirit; ] and the slave is the Son of 
God; and the vines are this people, whom He Himself planted; and the 
stakes are the holy angels of the Lord, who keep His people 
together; and the weeds that were plucked out of the vineyard are 
the iniquities of God's servants; and the dishes which He sent Him 
from His able are the commandments which He gave His people through 
His Son; and the friends and fellow-councillors are the holy angels 
who were first created; and the Master's absence from home is the 
time that remains until His appearing." I said to him, "Sir, all 
these are great, and marvellous, and glorious things. Could I, 
therefore," I continued, "understand them? No, nor could any other 
man, even if exceedingly wise. Moreover," I added, "explain to me 
what I am about to ask you." "Say what you wish," he replied. "Why, 
sir," I asked, "is the Son of God in the parable in the form of a slave?" 

CHAPTER VI.
"Hear," he answered: "the Son of God is not in the form of a 
slave, but in great power and might." "How so, sir?" I said; "I do 
not understand." "Because," he answered, "God planted the vineyard, 
that is to say, He created the people, and gave them to His Son; and 
the Son appointed His angels over them to keep them; and He Himself 
purged away their sins, having suffered many trials and undergone 
many labours, for no one is able to dig without labour and toil. He 
Himself, then, having purged away the sins of the people, showed 
them the paths of life by giving them the law which He received 
from His Father. [You see," he said, "that He is the Lord of the 
people, having received all authority from His Father. ] And why 
the Lord took His Son as councillor, and the glorious angels, 
regarding the heirship of the slave, listen. The holy, pre-existent 
Spirit, that created every creature, God made to dwell in flesh, 
which He chose. This flesh, accordingly, in which the Holy 
Spirit dwelt, was nobly subject to that Spirit, walking reli 36 

giously and chastely, in no respect defiling the Spirit; and 
accordingly, after living excellently and purely, and after 
labouring and co-operating with the Spirit, and having in everything 
acted vigorously and courageously along with the Holy Spirit, He 
assumed it as a partner with it. For this conduct of the flesh 
pleased Him, because it was not defiled on the earth while having 
the Holy Spirit. He took, therefore, as fellow-councillors His Son 
and the glorious angels, in order that this flesh, which had been 
subject to the body without a fault, might have some place of 
tabernacle, and that it might not appear that the reward [of its 
servitude had been lost ], for the flesh that has been found 
without spot or defilement, in which the Holy Spirit dwelt, [will 
receive a reward ]. You have now the explanation of this 
parable also." 

CHAPTER VII.
"I rejoice, sir," I said, "to hear this explanation." "Hear," 
again he replied: "Keep this flesh pure and stainless, that the 
Spirit which inhabits it may bear witness to it, and your flesh may 
be justified. See that the thought never arise in your mind that 
this flesh of yours is corruptible, and you misuse it by any act of 
defilement. If you defile your flesh, you will also defile the Holy 
Spirit; and if you defile your flesh [and spirit], you will not 
live." "And if any one, sir," I said, "has been hitherto 
ignorant, before he heard these words, how can such man be saved who 
has defiled his flesh?" "Respecting former sins of ignorance," 
he said, "God alone is able to heal them, for to Him belongs all 
power. [But be On your guard now, and the all-powerful and 
compassionate God will heal former transgressions ], if for the 
time to come you defile not your body nor your spirit; for both are 
common, and cannot be defiled, the one without the other: keep both 
therefore pure, and you will live unto God." 

Sixth Similitude OF THE TWO CLASSES OF VOLUPTUOUS MEN, AND OF THEIR DEATH, FALLING AWAY, AND THE DURATION OF THEIR PUNISHMENT.
CHAPTER I.
Sitting in my house, and glorifying the Lord for all that I had 
seen, and reflecting on the commandments, that they are excellent, 
and powerful, and glorious, and able to save a man's soul, I said 
within myself, "I shall be blessed if I walk in these commandments, 
and every one who walks in them will be blessed." While I was saying 
these words to myself, I suddenly see him sitting beside me, and 
hear him thus speak: "Why are you in doubt about the commandments 
which I gave you? They are excellent: have no doubt about them at 
all, but put on faith in the Lord, and you will walk in them, for I 
will strengthen you in them. These commandments are beneficial to 
those who intend to repent: for if they do not walk in them, their 
repentance is in vain You, therefore, who repent cast away the 
wickedness of this world which wears you out; and by putting on all 
the virtues of a holy life, you will be able to keep these 
commandments, and will no longer add to the number of your sins. 
Walk, therefore, in these commandments of mine, and you will 
live unto God. All these things have been spoken to you by me." And 
after he had uttered these words, he said to me, "Let us go into the 
fields, and I will show you the shepherds of the flocks." "Let us 
go, sir," I replied. And we came to a certain plain, and he showed 
me a young man, a shepherd, clothed in a suit of garments of a 
yellow colour: and he was herding very many sheep, and these sheep 
were feeding luxuriously, as it were, and riotously, and merrily 
skipping hither and thither. The shepherd himself was merry, because 
of his flock; and the appearance of the shepherd was joyous, and he 
was running about amongst his flock. [And other sheep I saw rioting 
and luxuriating in one place, but not, however, leaping about. ] 

CHAPTER II
And he said to me, "Do you see this shepherd?" "I see him, sir," 
I said. "This," he answered, "is the angel of luxury and 
deceit: he wears out the souls of the servants of God, and perverts them 
from the truth, deceiving them with wicked desires, through which 
they will perish; for they forget the commandments of the living 
God, and walk in deceits and empty luxuries; and they are ruined by 
the angel, some being brought to death, others to corruption:" I 
said to him, "Sir, I do not know the meaning of these words, 'to 
death, and to corruption.'" "Listen," he said. "The sheep which you 
saw merry and leaping about, are those which have tom themselves 
away from God for ever, and have delivered themselves over to 
luxuries and deceits [of this world. Among them there is no 
return to life through repentance, because they have added to their 
other sins, and blasphemed the name of the Lord. Such men therefore, 
are appointed unto death. And the sheep which you saw not 
leaping, but feeding in one place, are they who have delivered 
themselves over to luxury and deceit], but have committed no 
blasphemy against the Lord. These have been perverted from the 
truth: among them there is the hope of repentance, by which it is 
possible to live. Corruption, then, has a hope of a kind of renewal, 
 but death has everlasting ruin." Again I went forward a little 
way, and he showed me a tall shepherd, somewhat savage in his 
appearance, clothed in a white goatskin, and having a wallet on his 
shoulders, and a very hard staff with branches, and a large whip. 
And he had a very sour look, so that I was afraid of him, so 
forbidding was his aspect. This shepherd, accordingly, was receiving 
the sheep from the young shepherd, those, viz., that were rioting 
and luxuriating, but not leaping; and he cast them into a 
precipitous place, full of this ties and thorns, so that it was 
impossible to extricate the sheep from the thorns and thistles; but 
they were completely entangled amongst them. These, accordingly, 
thus entangled, pastured amongst the thorns and thistles, and were 
exceedingly miserable, being beaten by him; and he drove them hither 
and thither, and gave them no rest; and, altogether, these sheep 
were in a wretched plight. 

CHAPTER III.
Seeing them, therefore, so beaten and so badly used, I was 
grieved for them, because they were so tormented, and had no rest at 
all. And I said to the Shepherd who talked with me, "Sir, who is 
this shepherd, who is so pitiless and severe, and so completely 
devoid of compassion for these sheep?" 

"This," he replied, "is the angel of punishment; and he 
belongs to the just angels, and is appointed to punish. He 
accordingly takes those who wander away from God, and who have 
walked in the desires and deceits of this world, and chastises them 
as they deserve with terrible and diverse punishments." "I 
would know, sir," I said, "Of what nature are these diverse 
tortures and punishments?" "Hear," he said, "the various tortures 
and punishments. The tortures are such as occur during life. For 
some are punished with losses, others with want, others with 
sicknesses of various kinds, and others with all kinds of disOrder 
and confusion; others are insulted by unworthy persons, and exposed 
to suffering in many other ways: for many, becoming unstable in 
their plans, try many things, and none of them at all succeed, and 
they say they are not prosperous in their undertakings; and it does 
not occur to their minds that they have done evil deeds, but they 
blame the Lord. When, therefore, they have been afflicted with 
all kinds of affliction, then are they delivered unto me for good 
training, and they are made strong in the faith of the Lord; and 
for the rest of the days of their life they are subject to the Lord 
with pure hearts, and are successful in all their undertakings, 
obtaining from the Lord everything they ask; and then they glorify 
the Lord, that they were delivered to me, and no longer suffer any 
evil." 

CHAPTER IV.
I said to him, "Sir, explain this also to me." "What is it you 
ask?" he said. "Whether, sir," I continued, "they who indulge in 
luxury, and who are deceived, are tortured for the same period of 
time that they have indulged in luxury and deceit?" He said to me, 
"They are tortured in the same manner." ["They are tormented 
much less, sir," I replied;] "for those who are so 
luxurious and who forget God ought to be tortured seven-fold." He 
said to me "You are foolish, and do not understand the power of 
torment." "Why, sir," I said, "if I had understood it, I would not 
have asked you to show me." "Hear," he said, "the power of both. The 
time of luxury and deceit is one hour; but the hour of torment is 
equivalent to thirty days. If, accordingly, a man indulge in luxury 
for one day, and be deceived and be tortured for one day, the day of 
his torture is equivalent to a whole year. For all the days of 
luxury, therefore, there are as many years of torture to be 
undergone. You see, then," he continued, "that the time of luxury 
and deceit is very short, but that of punishment and torture 
long." 

CHAPTER V.
"Still," I said, "I do not quite understand about the time of 
deceit, and luxury, and torture; explain it to me more clearly." He 
answered, and said to me, "Your folly is persistent; and you do not 
wish to purify your heart, and serve God. Have a care," he added, 
"lest the time be fulfilled, and you be found foolish. Hear now," he 
added, "as you desire, that you may understand these things. He who 
indulges in luxury, and is deceived for one day, and who does what 
he wishes, is clothed with much foolishness, and does not understand 
the act which he does until the morrow; for he forgets what he did 
the day before. For luxury and deceit have no memories, on account 
of the folly with which they are clothed; but when punishment and 
torture cleave to a man for one day, he is punished and tortured for 
a year; for punishment and torture have powerful memories. While 
tortured and punished, therefore, for a whole year, he remembers at 
last a his luxury and deceit, and knows that an their account he 
suffers evil. Every man, therefore, who is luxurious and deceived is 
thus tormented, because, although having life, they have given 
themselves over to death." "What kinds of luxury, sir," I asked, 
"are hurtful?" "Every act of a man which he performs with pleasure," 
he replied, "is an act of luxury; for the sharp-tempered man, when 
gratifying his tendency, indulges in luxury; and the adulterer, and 
the drunkard, and the back-biter, and the liar, and the covetous 
man, and the thief, and he who does things like these, gratifies his 
peculiar propensity, and in so doing indulges in luxury. All these 
acts of luxury are hurtful to the servants of God. On account of 
these deceits, therefore, do they suffer, who are punished and 
tortured. And there are also acts of luxury which save men; for many 
who do good indulge in luxury, being carried away by their own 
pleasure: this luxury, however, is beneficial to the servants of 
God, and gains life for such a man; but the injurious acts of luxury 
before enumerated bring tortures and punishment upon them; and if 
they continue in them and do not repent, they bring death upon 
themselves." 

Seventh Similitude THEY WHO REPENT MUST BRING FORTH FRUITS WORTHY OF REPENTANCE.
After a few days I saw him in the same plain where I had also. 
seen the shepherds; and he said to me, "What do you wish with me?" I 
said to him, "Sir, that you would order the shepherd who punishes to 
depart out of my house, because he afflicts me exceedingly." "It is 
necessary," he replied, "that you be afflicted; for thus," he 
continued, "did the glorious angel command concerning you, as he 
wishes you to be tried." "What have I done which is so bad, sir," I 
replied, "that I should be delivered over to this angel?" 

"Listen," he said: "Your sins are many, but not so great as to 
require that you be delivered over to this angel; but your household 
has committed great iniquities and sins, and the glorious angel has 
been incensed at them on account of their deeds; and for this reason 
he commanded you to be afflicted for a certain time, that they also 
might repent, and purify themselves from every desire of this world. 
When, therefore, they repent and are purified, then the angel of 
punishment will depart." I said to him, "Sir, if they have done such 
things as to incense the glorious angel against them, yet what have 
I done?" He replied, "They cannot be afflicted at all, unless you, 
the head of the house, be afflicted: for when you are afflicted, of 
necessity they also suffer affliction; but if you are in comfort, 
they can feel no affliction." 

"Well, sir," I said, "they have repented with their whole 
heart." "I know, too," he answered, "that they have repented with 
their whole heart: do you think, however, that the sins of those who 
repent are remitted? Not altogether, but he who repents must 
torture his own soul, and be exceedingly humble in all his conduct, 
and be afflicted with many kinds of affliction; and if he endure the 
afflictions that come upon him, He who created all things, and 
endued them with power, will assuredly have compassion, and will 
heal him; and this will He do when He sees the heart
of every penitent pure from every evil thing: and it is 
profitable for you and for your house to suffer affliction now. But 
why should I say much to you? You must be afflicted, as that angel 
of the Lord commanded who delivered you to me. And for this give 
thanks to the Lord, because He has deemed you worthy of showing you 
beforehand this affliction, that, knowing it before it comes, you 
may be able to bear it with courage." I said to him, "Sir, be 
thou with me, and I will be able to bear all affliction." "I will be 
with you," he said, "and I will ask the angel of punishment to 
afflict you more lightly; nevertheless, you will be afflicted for a 
little time, and again you will be re-established in your house. 
Only continue humble, and serve the Lord in all purity of heart, you 
and your children, and your house, and walk in my commands which I 
enjoin upon you, and your repentance will be deep and pure; and if 
you observe these things with your household, every affliction will 
depart from you. And affliction," he added, "will depart from 
all who walk in these my commandments." 

Eighth Similitude THE SINS OF THE ELECT AND OF THE PENITENT ARE OF MANY KINDS, BUT ALL WILL BE REWARDED ACCORDING TO THE MEASURE OF THEIR REPENTANCE AND GOOD WORKS.
CHAPTER I.
He showed me a large willow tree overshadowing plains and 
mountains, and under the shade of this willow had assembled all 
those who were called by the name of the Lord. And a glorious angel 
of the Lord, who was very tall, was standing beside the willow, 
having a large, pruning-knife, and he was cutting little twigs from 
the willow and distributing them among the people that were 
overshadowed by the willow; and the twigs which he gave them were 
small, about a cubit, as it were, in length. And after they had all 
received the twigs, the angel laid down the pruning-knife, and that 
tree was sound, as I had seen it at first. And I marvelled within 
myself, saying, "How is the tree sound, after so many branches have 
been cut off?" And the Shepherd said to me, "Do not be surprised if 
the tree remains sound after so many branches were lopped off; [but 
wait, ] and when you shall have seen everything, then it will be 
explained to you what it means." The angel who had distributed the 
branches among the people again asked them from them, and in the 
order in which they had received them were they summoned to him, and 
each one of them returned his branch. And the angel of the Lord took 
and looked at them. From some he received the branches withered and 
moth-eaten; those who returned branches in that state the angel of 
the Lord ordered to stand apart. Others, again, returned them 
withered, but not moth-eaten; and these he ordered to stand apart. 
And others returned them half-withered, and these stood apart; and 
others returned their branches half-withered and having cracks in 
them, and these stood apart. [And others returned their branches 
green and having cracks in them; and these stood apart. ] And 
others returned their branches, one-half withered and the other 
green; and these stood apart. And others brought their branches 
two-thirds green and the remaining third withered; and these stood 
apart. And others returned them two-thirds withered and one-third 
green; and these stood apart. And others returned their branches 
nearly all green, the smallest part only, the top, being withered, 
but they had cracks in them; and these stood apart. And of others 
very little was green, but the remaining parts withered; and these 
stood apart. And others came bringing their branches green, as they 
had received them from the angel. And the majority of the crowd 
returned branches of that kind, and with these the angel was 
exceedingly pleased; and these stood apart. [And others returned 
their branches green and having offshoots; and these stood apart, 
and with these the angel was exceedingly delighted. ] And others 
returned their branches green and with offshoots, and the offshoots 
had some fruit, as it were; and those men whose branches were 
found to be of that kind were exceedingly joyful. And the angel was 
exultant because of them; and the Shepherd also rejoiced greatly 
because of them. 

CHAPTER II.
And the angel of the Lord ordered crowns to be brought; and 
there were brought crowns, formed, as it were, of palms; and he 
crowned the men who had returned the branches Which had offshoots 
and some fruit, and sent them away into the tower. And the others 
also he sent into the tower, those, namely, who had returned 
branches that were green and had offshoots but no fruit, having 
given them seals. And all who went into the tower had the same 
clothing--white as snow. And those who returned their 
branches green, as they had received them, he set free, giving them 
clothing and seals. Now after the angel had finished these things, 
he said to the Shepherd, "I am going away, and you will send these 
away within the walls, according as each one is worthy to have his 
dwelling. And examine their branches carefully, and so dismiss them; 
but examine them with care. See that no one escape you,". he added; 
"and if any escape you, I will try them at the altar." Having 
said these words to the Shepherd, he departed. And after the angel 
had departed, the Shepherd said to me, "Let us take the branches of 
all these and plant them, and see if any of them will live." I said 
to him, "Sir, how can these withered branches live?" He answered, 
and said, "This tree is a willow, and of a kind that is very 
tenacious of life. If, therefore, the branches be planted, and 
receive a little moisture, many of them will live. And now let us 
try, and pour waters upon them; and if any of them live I shall 
rejoice with them, and if they do not I at least will not be found 
neglectful." And the Shepherd bade me call them as each one was 
placed. And they came, rank by rank, and gave their branches to the 
Shepherd. And the Shepherd received the branches, and planted them 
in rows; and after he had planted them he poured much water upon 
them, so that the branches could not be seen for the water; and 
after the branches had drunk it in, he said to me, "Let us go, and 
return after a few days, and inspect all the branches; for He who 
created this tree wishes all those to live who received branches 
from it. And I also hope that the greater part of these branches 
which received moisture and drank of the water will live." 

CHAPTER III.
I said to him, "Sir, explain to me what this tree means, for I 
am perplexed about it, because, after so many branches have been cut 
off, it continues sound, and nothing appears to have been cut away 
from it. By this, now, I am perplexed." "Listen," he said: "This 
great tree that casts its shadow over plains, and mountains, and 
all the earth, is the law of God that was given to the whole world; 
and this law is the Son of God, proclaimed to the ends of the 
earth; and the people who are under its shadow are they who have 
heard the proclamation, and have believed upon Him. And the great 
and glorious angel Michael is he who has authority over this people, 
and governs them; for this is he who gave them the law into 
the hearts of believers: he accordingly superintends them to whom he 
gave it, to see if they have kept the same. And you see the branches 
of each one, for the branches are the law You see, accordingly, many 
branches that have been rendered useless, and you will know them 
all--those who have not kept the law; and you will see the dwelling 
of each one." I said to him, "Sir, why did he dismiss some into the 
tower, and leave others to you?" "All," he answered, "who 
transgressed the law which they received from him, he left under my 
power for repentance; but all who have satisfied the law, and kept 
it, he retains under his own authority." "Who, then," I continued, 
"are they who were crowned, and who go to the tower?" "These are 
they who have suffered on account of the law; but the others, and 
they who returned their branches green, and with offshoots, but 
without fruit, are they who have been afflicted on account of the 
law, but who have not suffered nor denied their law; and they 
who returned their branches green as they had received them, are the 
venerable, and the just, and they who have walked carefully in a 
pure heart, and have kept the commandments of the Lord. And the rest 
you will know when I have examined those branches which have been 
planted and watered." 

CHAPTER IV.
And after a few days we came to the place, and the Shepherd sat 
down in the angel's place, and I stood beside him. And he said to 
me, "Gird yourself with pure, undressed linen made of sackcloth;" 
and seeing me girded, and ready to minister to him, "Summon," he 
said, "the men to whom belong the branches that were planted, 
according to the order in which each one gave them in." So I went 
away to the plain, and summoned them all, and they all stood in 
their ranks. He said to them, "Let each one pull out his own branch, 
and bring it to me." The first to give in were those who had them 
withered and cut; and because they were found to be thus 
withered and cut, he commanded them to stand apart. And next they 
gave them in who had them withered, but not cut. And some of them 
gave in their branches green, and some withered and eaten as by a 
moth. Those that gave them in green, accordingly, he ordered to 
stand apart; and those who gave them in dry and cut, he ordered to 
stand along with the first. Next they gave them
in who had them half-withered and cracked; and many of them 
gave them in green and without crocks; and some green and with 
offshoots and fruits upon the offshoots, such as they had who went, 
after being crowned, into the tower. And some handed them in 
withered and eaten, and some withered and uneaten; and some as they 
were, half-withered and cracked. And he commanded them each one to 
stand apart, some towards their own rows, and others apart from 
them. 

CHAPTER V.
Then they gave in their branches who had them green, but 
cracked: all these gave them in green, and stood in their own row. 
And the Shepherd was pleased with these, because they were all 
changed, and had lost their cracks. And they also gave them in 
who had them half-green and half-withered: of some, accordingly, the 
branches were found completely green; of others, half-withered; of 
others, withered and eaten; of others, green, and having offshoots. 
All these were sent away, each to his own row. [Next they gave in 
who had them two parts green and one-third withered. Many of them 
gave them half-withered; and others withered and rotten; and others 
half-withered and cracked, and a few green. These all stood in their 
own row. ] And they gave them in who had them green, but to a 
very slight extent withered and cracked. Of these, some gave 
them in green, and others green and with offshoots. And these also 
went away to their own row. Next they gave them who had a very small 
part green and the other parts withered. Of these the branches were 
found for the most part green and having offshoots, and fruit upon 
the offshoots, and others altogether green. With these branches the 
Shepherd was exceedingly pleased, because they were found in this 
state. And these went away, each to his own row. 

CHAPTER VI.
After the Shepherd had examined the branches of them all, he 
said to me, "I told you that this tree was tenacious of life. You 
see," he continued, "how many repented and were saved." "I see, 
sir," I replied. "That you may behold," he added, "the great mercy 
of the Lord, that it is great and glorious, and that He has given 
His Spirit to those who are worthy of repentance." "Why then, sir," 
I said, "did not all these repent?" He answered, "To them whose 
heart He saw would become pure, and obedient to Him, He gave power 
to repent with the whole heart. But to them whose deceit and 
wickedness He perceived, and saw that they intended to repent 
hypocritically, He did not grant repentance, lest they should 
again profane His name." I said to him, "Sir, show me now, with 
respect to those who gave in the branches, of what sort they are, 
and their abode, in order that they hearing it who believed, and 
received the seal, and broke it, and did not keep it whole, may, on 
coming to a knowledge of their deeds, repent, and receive from you. 
a seal, and may glorify the Lord because He had compassion upon 
them, and sent you to renew their spirits." "Listen," he said: "they 
whose branches were found withered and moth-eaten are the apostates 
and traitors of the Church, who have blasphemed the Lord in their 
sins, and have, moreover, been ashamed of the name of the Lord by 
which they were called. These, therefore, at the end were lost 
unto God. And you see that not a single one of them repented, 
although they heard the words which I spake to them, which I 
enjoined upon you. From such life departed? And they who gave them 
in withered and undecayed, these also were near to them; for they 
were hypocrites, and introducers of strange doctrines, and 
subverters of the servants Of God, especially of those who had 
sinned, not allowing them to repent, but persuading them by foolish 
doctrines. These, accordingly, have a hope of repentance. And 
you see that many of them also have repented since I spake to them, 
and they will still repent. But all who will not repent have lost 
their lives; and as many of them as repented became good, and their 
dwelling was appointed within the first walls; and some of them 
ascended even into the tower. You see, then," he said, "that 
repentance involves life to sinners, but non-repentance death. 

CHAPTER VII.
"And as many as gave in the branches half-withered and cracked, 
hear also about them. They whose branches were half-withered to the 
same extent are the wavering; for they neither live, nor are they 
dead. And they who have them half-withered and cracked are both 
waverers and slanderers, [railing against the absent,] and never at 
peace with one another, but always at variance. And yet to these 
also," he continued, "repentance is possible. You see," he said, 
"that some of them have repented, and there is still remaining in 
them," he continued, "a hope of repentance. And as many of them," he 
added, "as have repented, shall have their 42 

dwelling in the tower. And those of them who have been slower in 
repenting shall dwell within the walls. And as many as do not repent 
at all, but abide in their deeds, shall utterly perish. And they who 
gave in their branches green and cracked were always faithful and 
good, though emulous of each other about the foremost places, and 
about fame: now all these are foolish, in indulging in such a 
rivalry. Yet they also, being naturally good, on hearing my 
commandments, purified themselves, and soon repented. Their 
dwelling, accordingly, was in the tower. But if any one relapse into 
strife, he will be east out of the tower, and will lose his life. 
 Life is the possession of all who keep the commandments of the 
Lord; but in the commandments there is no rivalry in regard to the 
first places, or glory of any kind, but in regard to patience and 
personal humility. Among such persons, then, is the life of the 
Lord, but amongst the quarrelsome and transgressors, death. 

CHAPTER VIII.
"And they who gave in their branches half-green and 
half-withered, are those who are immersed in business, and do not 
cleave to the saints. For this reason, the one half of them is 
living, and the other half dead. Many, accordingly, who heard my 
commands repented, and those at least who repented had their 
dwelling in the tower. But some of them at last fell away: these, 
accordingly, have not repentance, for on account of their business 
they blasphemed the Lord, and denied Him. They therefore lost their 
lives through the wickedness which they committed. And many of them 
doubted. These still have repentance in their power, if they repent 
speedily; and their abode will be in the tower. But if they are 
slower in repenting, they will dwell within the walls; and if they 
do not repent, they too have lost their lives. And they who gave in 
their branches two-thirds withered and one-third green, are those 
who have denied [the Lord] in various ways. Many, however, repented, 
but some of them hesitated and were in doubt. These, then, have 
repentance within their reach, if they repent quickly, and do not 
remain in their pleasures; but if they abide in their deeds, 
these, too, work to themselves death. 

CHAPTER IX.
"And they who returned their branches two-thirds withered and 
one-third green, are those that were faithful indeed; but after 
acquiring wealth, and becoming distinguished amongst the heathen, 
they clothed themselves with great pride, and became lofty-minded, 
and deserted the truth, and did not cleave to the righteous, but 
lived with the heathen, and this way of life became more agreeable 
to them. They did not, however, depart from God, but remained in 
the faith, although not working the works of faith. Many of them 
accordingly repented, and their dwelling was in the tower. And 
others continuing to live until the end with the heathen, and being 
corrupted by their vain glories, [departed from God, serving the 
works and deeds of the heathen. ] These were reckoned with the 
heathen. But others of them hesitated, not hoping to be saved on 
account of the deeds which they had done; while others were in 
doubt, and caused divisions among themselves. To those, therefore, 
who were in doubt on account of their deeds, repentance is still 
open; but their repentance ought to be speedy, that their dwelling 
may be in the tower. And to those who do not repent, but abide in 
their pleasures, death is near. 

CHAPTER X.
"And they who give in their branches green, but having the tips 
withered and cracked, these were always good, and faithful, and 
distinguished before God; but they sinned a very little through 
indulging small desires, and finding little faults with one another. 
But on hearing my words the greater part of them quickly repented, 
and their dwelling was upon the tower. Yet some of them were in 
doubt; and certain of them who were in doubt wrought greater 
dissension. Among these, therefore, is hope of repentance, because 
they were always good; and with difficulty will any one of them 
perish. And they who gave up their branches withered, but having 
a very small part green, are those who believed only, yet continue 
working the works of iniquity. They never, however, departed from 
God, but gladly bore His name, and joyfully received His servants 
into their houses. Having accordingly heard of this repentance, 
they unhesitatingly repented, and practise all virtue and 
righteousness; and some of them even [suffered, being willingly put 
to death ]. knowing their deeds which they had done. Of all 
these, therefore, the dwelling shall be in the tower." 

CHAPTER XI.
And after he had finished the explanations of
all the branches, he said to me, "Go and tell them to every one, 
that they may repent, and they shall live unto God. Because the 
Lord, having had compassion on all men, has sent me to give 
repentance, although some are not worthy of it on account of their 
works; but the Lord, being long-suffering, desires those who were 
called by His Son to be saved." I said to him, "Sir, I hope that 
all who have heard them will repent; for I am persuaded that each 
one, on coming to a knowledge of his own works, and fearing the 
Lord, will repent." He answered me, and said, "All who with their 
whole heart shall purify themselves from their wickedness before 
enumerated, and shah add no more to their sins, will receive healing 
from the Lord for their former transgressions, if they do not 
hesitate at these commandments; and they will live unto God. But do 
you walk in my commandments, and live." Having shown me these 
things, and spoken all these words, he said to me, "And the rest I 
will show you after a few days." 

Ninth Similitude THE GREAT MYSTERIES IN THE BUILDING OF THE MILITANT AND TRIUMPHANT CHURCH,
CHAPTER I
After I had written down the commandments and similitudes of the 
Shepherd, the angel of repentance, he came to me and said, "I wish 
to explain to you what the HOly Spirit that spake with you in 
the form of the Church showed you, for that Spirit is the Son of 
God. For, as you were somewhat weak in the flesh, it was not 
explained to you by the angel. When, however, you were strengthened 
by the Spirit, and your strength was increased, so that you were 
able to see the angel also, then accordingly was the building of the 
tower shown you by the Church. In a noble and solemn manner did you 
see everything as if shown you by a virgin; but now you see [them] 
through the same Spirit as if shown by an angel. You must, however, 
learn everything from me with greater accuracy. For I was sent for 
this purpose by the glorious angel to dwell in your house, that you 
might see all things with power, entertaining no fear, even as it 
was before." And he led me away into Arcadia, to a round hill; 
and he placed me on the top of the hill, and showed me a large 
plain, and round about the plain twelve mountains, all having 
different forms. The first was black as soot; and the second bare, 
without grass; and the third full of thorns and thistles; and the 
fourth with grass half-withered, the upper parts of the plants 
green, and the parts about the roots withered; and some of the 
grasses, when the sun scorched them, became withered. And the fifth 
mountain had green grass, and was ragged. And the sixth mountain was 
quite full of clefts, some small and others large; and the clefts 
were grassy, but the plants were not very vigorous, but rather, as 
it were, decayed. The seventh mountain, again, had cheerful 
pastures, and the whole mountain was blooming, and every kind of 
cattle and birds were feeding upon that mountain; and the more the 
cattle and the birds ate, the more the grass of that mountain 
flourished. And the eighth mountain was full of fountains, and every 
kind of the Lord's creatures drank of the fountains of that 
mountain. But the ninth mountain [had no water at all, and was 
wholly a desert, and had within it deadly serpents, which destroy 
men. And the tenth mountain ] had very large trees, and was 
completely shaded, and under the shadow of the trees sheep lay 
resting and ruminating. And the eleventh mountain was very thickly 
wooded, and those trees were productive, being adorned with various 
sons of fruits, so that any one seeing them would desire to eat of 
their fruits. The twelfth mountain, again, was wholly white, and its 
aspect was cheerful, and the mountain in itself was very beautiful. 

CHAPTER II
And in the middle of the plain he showed me a large white rock 
that had arisen out of the plain. And the rock was more lofty than 
the mountains, rectangular in shape, so as to be capable of 
containing the whole world: and that rock Was old, having a gate cut 
out of it; and the cutting out of the gate seemed to me as if 
recently done. And the gate glittered to such a degree under the 
sunbeams, that I marvelled at the splendour of the gate; and 
round about the gate were standing twelve virgins. The four who 
stood at the corners seemed to me more distinguished than the 
others--they were all, however, distinguished--and they were 
standing at the four parts of the gate; two virgins between each 
part. And they were clothed with linen tunics, and gracefully 
girded, having their right shoulders exposed, as if about to bear 
some burden. Thus they stood ready; for they were exceedingly 
cheerful and eager. After I had seen these things, I marvelled in 
myself,
because I was beholding great and glorious sights. And again I 
was perplexed about the virgins, because, although so delicate, they 
were standing courageously, as if about to carry the whole heavens. 
And the Shepherd said to me "Why are you reasoning in yourself, and 
perplexing your mind, and distressing yourself? for the things which 
you cannot understand, do not attempt to comprehend, as if you were 
wise; but ask the Lord, that you may receive understanding and know 
them. You cannot see what is behind you, but you see what is before. 
Whatever, then, you cannot see, let alone, and do not torment 
yourself about it: but what you see, make yourself master of it, and 
do not waste your labour about other things; and I will explain to 
you everything that I show you. Look therefore, on the things that 
remain." 

CHAPTER III
I saw six men come, tall, and distinguished, and similar in 
appearance, and they summoned, a multitude of men. And they who came 
were also tall men, and handsome, and powerful; and the six men 
commanded them to build a tower above the rock. And great was 
the noise of those men who came to build the tower, as they ran 
hither and thither around the gate. And the virgins who stood around 
the gate told the men to hasten to build the tower. Now the virgins 
had spread out their hands, as if about to receive something from 
the men. And the six men commanded stones to ascend out of a certain 
pit, and to go to the building of the tower. And there went up ten 
shining rectangular stones, not hewn in a quarry. And the six men 
called the virgins, and bade them carry all the stones that were 
intended for the building, and to pass through the gate, and give 
them to the men who were about to build the tower. And the virgins 
put upon one another the ten first stones which had ascended from 
the pit, and carried them together, each stone by itself. 

CHAPTER IV
And as they stood together around the gate, those who seemed to 
be strong carried them, and they stooped down under the corners of 
the stone; and the others stooped down under the sides of the 
stones. And in this way they carried all the stones. And they 
carried them through the gate as they were commanded, and gave them 
to the men for the tower; and they took the stones and proceeded 
with the building. Now the tower was built upon the great rock, and 
above the gate. Those ten stones were prepared as the foundation for 
the building of the tower. And the rock and gate were the support of 
the whole of the tower. And after the ten stones other twenty [five] 
came up out of the pit, and these were fired into the building of 
the tower, being carried by the virgins as before. And after these 
ascended thirty-five. And these in like manner were fitted into the 
tower. And after these other forty stones came up; and all these 
were cast into the building of the tower, [and there were four rows 
in the foundation of the tower, ] and they ceased ascending from 
the pit. And the builders also ceased for a little. And again the 
six men commanded the multitude of the crowd to bear stones from the 
mountains for the building of the tower. They were accordingly 
brought from all the mountains of various, colours, and being hewn 
by the men were given to the virgins; and the virgins carried them 
through the gate, and gave them for the building of the tower. And 
when the stones of various colours were placed in the building, they 
all became white alike, and lost their different colours. And 
certain stones were given by the men for the building, and these did 
not become shining; but as they were placed, such also were they 
found to remain: for they were not given by the virgins, nor carried 
through the gate. These stones, therefore, were not in keeping with 
the others in the building of the tower. And the six men, seeing 
these unsuitable stones in the building, commanded them to be taken 
away, and to be carried away down to their own place whence they had 
been taken; [and being removed one by one, they were laid aside; 
and] they say to the men who brought the stones, "Do not ye bring 
any stones at all for the building, but lay them down beside the 
tower, that the virgins may carry them through the gate, and may 
give them for the building. For unless," they said, "they be carried 
through the gate by the hands of the virgins, they cannot change 
their colours: do not toil, therefore," they said, "to no purpose." 

CHAPTER V
And on that day the building was finished, but the tower was not 
completed; for additional building was again about to be added, and 
there was a cessation in the building. And the six men commanded the 
builders all to withdraw a little distance, and to rest, but 
enjoined the virgins not to withdraw from the tower; and it seemed 
to me that the virgins had been left to guard the tower. Now after 
all had withdrawn, and were resting themselves, I said to the 
Shepherd, "What is the reason that the building of the tower was not 
finished? "The tower," he answered, "cannot be finished just yet, 
until the Lord of it come and examine the building, in 
order that, if any of the stones be found to be decayed, he may 
change them: for the tower is built according to his pleasure." "I 
would like to know, sir," I said, "what is the meaning of the 
building of this tower, and what the rock and gate, and the 
mountains, and the virgins mean, and the stones that ascended from 
the pit, and were not hewn, but came as they were to the building. 
Why, in the first place, were ten stones placed in the foundation, 
then twenty-five, then thirty-five, then forty? and I wish also to 
know about the stones that went to the building, and were again 
taken out and returned to their own place? On all these points put 
my mind at rest, sir, and explain them to me." "If you are not found 
to be curious about trifles," he replied, "you shall know 
everything. For after a few days [we shall come hither, and you will 
see the other things that happen to this tower, and will know 
accurately all the similitudes." After a few days ] we came to 
the place where we sat down. And he said to me, "Let us go to the 
tower; for the master of the tower is coming to examine it." And we 
came to the tower, and there was no one at all near it, save the 
virgins only. And the Shepherd asked the virgins if perchance the 
master of the tower had come; and they replied that he was about to 
come to examine the building. 

CHAPTER VI
And, behold, after a little I see an array of many men coming, 
and in the midst of them one man of so remarkable a size as to 
overtop the tower. And the six men who had worked upon the building 
were with him, and many other honourable men were around him. And 
the virgins who kept the tower ran forward and kissed him, and began 
to walk near him around the tower. And that man examined the 
building carefully, feeling every stone separately; and holding a 
rod in his hand, he struck every stone in the building three times. 
And when he struck them, some of them became black as soot, and some 
appeared as if covered with scabs, and some cracked, and some 
mutilated, and some neither white nor black, and some rough and not 
in keeping with the other stones, and some having Every many] 
stains: such were the varieties of decayed stones that were found in 
the building. He ordered all these to be taken out of the tower, and 
to be laid down beside it, and other stones to be brought and put in 
their stead. [And the builders asked him from what mountain he 
wished them to be brought and put in their place. ] And he did 
not command them to be brought from the mountains, [but he bade them 
be brought from a certain plain which was near at hand. ] And the 
plain was dug up, and shining rectangular stones were found, and 
some also of a round shape; and all the stones which were in that 
plain were brought, and carried through the gate by the virgins. And 
the rectangular stones were hewn, and put in place of those that 
were taken away; but the rounded stones were not put into the 
building, because they were hard to hew, and appeared to field 
slowly to the chisel; they were deposited, however, beside the 
tower, as if intended to be hewn and used in the building, for they 
were exceedingly brilliant. 

CHAPTER VII
The glorious man, the lord of the whole tower, having 
accordingly finished these alterations, called to him the Shepherd, 
and delivered to him all the stones that were lying beside the 
tower, that had been rejected from the building, and said to him, 
"Carefully clean all these stones, and put aside such for the 
building of the tower as may harmonize with the others; and those 
that do not, throw far away from the tower." [Having given these 
orders to the Shepherd, he departed from the tower ], with all 
those with whom he had come. Now the virgins were standing around 
the tower, keeping it. I said again to the Shepherd, "Can these 
stones return to the building of the tower, after being rejected?" 
He answered me, and said, "Do you see these stones?" "I 
see them, sir," I replied. "The greater part of these stones," 
he said, "I 
will hew, and put into the building, and they will harmonize 
with the others." 

"How, sir," I said, "can they, after being cut all round about, 
fill up the same space?" He answered, "Those that shall be found 
small will be thrown into the middle of the building, and those that 
are larger will be placed on the outside, and they will hold them 
together." Having spoken these words, he said to me, "Let us go, and 
after two days let us come and clean these stones, and cast them 
into the building; for all things around the tower must be cleaned, 
lest the Master come suddenly? and find the places about the tower 
dirty, and be displeased, and these stones be not returned for the 
building of the tower, and I also shall seem to be neglectful 
towards the Master." And after two days we came to the tower, and he 
said to me, "Let us examine all the stones, and ascertain those 
which may return to the building." I said to him, "Sir, let us 
examine them!" 

CHAPTER VIII,
And beginning, we first examined the black stones: And such as 
they had been taken out of the building, were they found to remain; 
and the Shepherd ordered them to be removed out of the tower, and to 
be placed apart. Next he examined those that had scabs; and he took 
and hewed many of these, and commanded the virgins to take them up 
and cast them into the building. And the virgins lifted them up, and 
put them in the middle of the building of the tower. And the rest he 
ordered to be laid down beside the black ones; for these, too, were 
found to be black. He next examined those that had cracks; and he 
hewed many of these, and commanded them to be carried by the virgins 
to the building: and they were placed on the outside, because they 
were found to be sounder than the others; but the rest, on account 
of the multitude of the cracks, could not be hewn, and for this 
reason, therefore, they were rejected from the building of the 
tower. He next examined the chipped stones, and many amongst these 
were found to be black, arid some to have great crocks. And these 
also he commanded to be laid down along with those which had been 
rejected. But the remainder, after being cleaned and hewn, he 
commanded to be placed in the building. And the virgins took them 
up, and fitted them into the middle of the building of the tower, 
for they were somewhat weak. He next examined those that were half 
white and half black, and many of them were found to be black. And 
he commanded these also to be taken away along with those which had 
been rejected. And the rest were all taken away by the virgins; for, 
being white, they were fitted by the virgins themselves into the 
building. And they were placed upon the outside, because they were 
found to be sound, so as to be able to support those which were 
placed in the middle, for no part of them at all was chipped. He 
next examined those that were rough and hard; and a few of them were 
rejected because they could not be hewn, as they were found 
exceedingly hard. But the rest of them were hewn, and carried by the 
virgins, and fitted into the middle of the building of the tower; 
for they were somewhat weak. He next examined those that had stains; 
and of these a very few were black, and were thrown aside with the 
others; but the greater part were found to be bright, and these were 
fitted by the virgins into the building, but on account of their 
strength were placed on the outside. 

CHAPTER IX
He next came to examine the white and rounded stones, and said 
to me, "What are we to do with these stones? "How do I know, sir? "I 
replied. "Have you no intentions regarding them? "Sir," I answered, 
"I am not acquainted with this art, neither am I a stone-cutter, nor 
can I tell." "Do you not see," he said, "that they are exceedingly 
round? and if I wish to make them ractangular, a large portion of 
them must be cut away; for some of them must of necessity be put 
into the building." "If therefore," I said, "they must, why do you 
torment yourself, and not at once choose for the building those 
which you prefer, and fit them into it?" He selected the larger ones 
among them, and the shining ones, and hewed them; and the virgins 
carried and fitted them into the outside parts of the building. And 
the rest which remained over were carded away, and laid down on the 
plain from which they were brought. They were not, however, 
rejected, "because," he said, "there remains yet a little addition 
to be built to the tower. And the lord of this tower wishes all the 
stones to be fitted into the building, because they are exceedingly 
bright." And twelve women were called, very beautiful in form, 
clothed in black, and with dishevelled hair. And these women seemed 
to me to be fierce. But the Shepherd commanded them to lift the 
stones that were rejected from the building, and to carry them away 
to the mountains from which they had been brought. And they were 
merry, and carded away all the stones, and put them in the place 
whence they had been taken. Now after all the stones were removed, 
and there was no longer a single one lying around the tower, he 
said, "Let us go round the tower and see, lest there be any defect 
in it." So I went round the tower along with him. And the Shepherd, 
seeing that the tower was beautifully built, rejoiced exceedingly; 
for the tower was built in such a way, that, on seeing it, I coveted 
the building of it, for it was constructed as if built of one stone, 
without a single joining. And the stone seemed as if hewn out of the 
rock; having to me the appearance of a monolith. 

CHAPTER X
And as I walked along with him, I was full of joy, beholding so 
many excellent things. And the Shepherd said to me, "Go and bring 
unslacked lime and fine-baked clay, that I may fill up the forms of 
the stones that were taken and thrown into the building; for 
everything about the tower must be smooth." And I did as he 
commanded me, and brought it to him. "Assist me," he said, "and the 
work will soon be finished." He accordingly filled up the forms of 
the stones that were returned to the building, and commanded the 
places around the tower to be swept and to be cleaned; and the 
virgins took brooms and swept the place, and carried all the dirt out of 
the tower, and brought water, and the ground around the tower became 
cheerful and very beautiful. Says the Shepherd to me, "Everything 
has been cleared away; if the lord of the tower come to inspect it, 
he can have no fault to find with us." Having spoken these words, he 
wished to depart; but I laid hold of him by the wallet, and began to 
adjure him by the Lord that he would explain what he had showed me. 
He said to me, "I must rest a little, and then I shall explain to 
you everything; wait for me here until I return." I said to him, 
"Sir, what can I do here alone?" "You are not alone," he said, "for 
these virgins are with you." "Give me in charge to them, then," I 
replied. The Shepherd called them to him, and said to them, "I 
entrust him to you until I come," and went away. And I was alone 
with the virgins; and they were rather merry, but were friendly to 
me, especially the four more distinguished of them. 

CHAPTER XI
The virgins said to me, "The Shepherd does not come here 
today." "What, then," said I, "am I to do?" They replied, "Wait for 
him until he comes; and if he comes he will converse with you, and 
if he does not come you will remain here with us until he does 
come." I said to them, "I will wait for him until it is late; and if 
he does not arrive, I will go away into the house, and come back 
early in the morning." And they answered and said to me, "You were 
entrusted to us; you cannot go away from us." "Where, then," I said, 
"am I to remain? "You will sleep with us," they replied, "as a 
brother, and not as a husband: for you are our brother, and for the 
time to come we intend to abide with you, for we love you 
exceedingly!" But I was ashamed to remain with them. And she who 
seemed to be the first among them began to kiss me. [And the others 
seeing her kissing me, began also to kiss me], and to lead me round 
the tower, and to play with me. And I, too, became like a young 
man, and began to play with them: for some of them formed a chorus, 
and others danced, and others sang; and I, keeping silence, walked 
with them around the tower, and was merry with them. And when it 
grew late I wished to go into the house; and they would not let me, 
but detained me. So I remained with them during the night, and slept 
beside the tower. Now the virgins spread their linen tunics on the 
ground, and made me lie down in the midst of them; and they did 
nothing at all but pray; and I without ceasing prayed with them, and 
not less than they. And the virgins rejoiced because I thus prayed. 
And I remained there with the virgins until the next day at the 
second hour. Then the Shepherd returned, and said to the virgins, 
"Did you offer him any insult? "Ask him," they said. I said to him, 
"Sir, I was delighted that I remained with them." "On what," he 
asked, "did you sup? "I supped, sir," I replied, "on the words of 
the Lord the whole night." "Did they receive you well?" he inquired. 
"Yes, sir," I answered. "Now," he said, "what do you wish to hear 
first?" "I wish to hear in the order," I said, "in which you showed 
me from the beginning. I beg of you, sir, that as I shall ask you, 
so also you will give me the explanation." "As you wish," he 
replied, "so also will I explain to you, and will conceal nothing at 
all from you." 

CHAPTER XII
"First of all, sir," I said, "explain this to me: What is the 
meaning of the rock and the gate?" "This rock," he answered, "and 
this gate are the Son of God." "How, sir?" I said; "the rock is old, 
and the gate is new." "Listen," he said, "and understand, O ignorant 
man. The Son of God is older than all His creatures, so that He was 
a fellow-councillor with the Father in His work of creation: for 
this reason is He old." "And why is the gate new, sir?" I said. 
"Because," he answered, "He became manifest in the last days of 
the dispensation: for this reason the gate was made new, that they 
who are to be saved by it might enter into the kingdom of God. You 
saw," he said, "that those stones which came in through the gate 
were used for the building of the tower, and that those which did 
not come, were again thrown back to their own place? "I saw, sir," I 
replied. "In like manner," he continued, "no one shall enter into 
the kingdom of God unless he receive His holy name. For if you 
desire to enter into a city, and that city is surrounded by a wall, 
and has but one gate, can you enter into that city save through the 
gate which it has?" "Why, how can it be otherwise, sir?" I said. 
"If, then, you cannot enter
into the city except through its gate, so, in like manner, a man 
cannot otherwise enter into the kingdom of God than by the name of 
His beloved Son. You saw," he added, "the multitude who were 
building the tower?" "I saw them, sir," I said. "Those," he said, 
"are all glorious angels, and by them accordingly is the Lord 
surrounded. And the gate is the Son of God. This is the one entrance 
to the Lord. In no other way, then, shall any one enter in to Him 
except through His Son. You saw," he continued, "the six men, and 
the tail and glorious man in the midst of them, who walked round the 
tower, and rejected the stones from the building? "I saw him, sir," 
I answered. "The glorious man," he said, "is the Son of God, and 
those six glorious angels are those who support Him on the right 
hand and on the left. None of these glorious angels," he continued, 
"will enter in unto God apart from Him. Whosoever does not receive 
His name, shall not enter into the kingdom of God." 

CHAPTER XIII
"And the tower," I asked, "what does it mean? "This tower," he 
replied, "is the Church." "And these virgins, who are they?" "They 
are holy spirits, and men cannot otherwise be found in the kingdom 
of God unless these have put their clothing upon them: for if you 
receive the name only, and do not receive from them the clothing, 
they are of no advantage to you. For these virgins are the powers of 
the Son of God. If you bear His name but possess not His power, it 
will be in vain that you bear His name. Those stones," he continued, 
"which you saw rejected bore His name, but did not put on the 
clothing of the virgins." "Of what nature is their clothing, sir?" I 
asked. "Their very names," he said, "are their clothing. Every one 
who bears the name of the Son of God, ought to bear the names also 
of these; for the Son Himself bears the names of these virgins. 
As many stones," he continued, "as you saw [come into the building 
of the tower through the hands ] of these virgins, and remaining, 
have been clothed with their strength. For this reason you see that 
the tower became of one stone with the rock. So also they who have 
believed on the Lord through His Son, and are clothed with these 
spirits, shall become one spirit, one body, and the colour of their 
garments shall be one. And the dwelling of such as bear the names of 
the virgins is in the tower." "Those stones, sir, that were 
rejected," I inquired, "on what account were they rejected? for they 
passed through the gate, and were placed by the hands of the virgins 
in the building of the tower." "Since you take an interest in 
everything," he replied, "and examine minutely, hear about the 
stones that were rejected. These all," he said, "received the name 
of God, and they received also the strength of these virgins. Having 
received, then, these spirits, they were made strong, and were with 
the servants of God; and theirs was one spirit, and one body, and 
one clothing. For they were of the same mind, and wrought 
righteousness. After a certain time, however, they were persuaded by 
the women whom you saw clothed in black, and having their shoulders 
exposed and their hair dishevelled, and beautiful in appearance. 
Having seen these women, they desired to have them, and clothed 
themselves with their strength, and put off the strength of the 
virgins. These, accordingly, were rejected from the house of God, 
and were given over to these women. But they who were not deceived 
by the beauty of these women remained in the house of God. You 
have," he said, "the explanation of those who were rejected." 

CHAPTER XIV
"What, then, sir," I said, "if these men, being such as they 
are, repent and put away their desires after these women, and return 
again to the virgins, and walk in their strength and in their works, 
shall they not enter into the house of God? "They shall enter in," 
he said, "if they put away the works of these women, and put on 
again the strength of the virgins, and walk in their works. For on 
this account was there a cessation in the building, in order that, 
if these repent, they may depart into the building of the tower. But 
if they do not repent, then others will come in their place, and 
these at the end will be cast out. For all these things I gave 
thanks to the Lord, because He had pity on all that call upon His 
name; and sent the angel of repentance to us who sinned against Him, 
and renewed our spirit; and when we were already destroyed, and had 
no hope of life, He restored us to newness of life." "Now, sir," I 
continued, "show me why the tower was not built upon the ground, but 
upon the rock and upon the gate." "Are you still," he said, "without 
sense and understanding? "I must, sir," I said, "ask you of all 
things, because I am wholly unable to understand them; for all these 
things are great and glorious, and difficult for man to understand." 
"Listen," he said: "the name of the Son of God is great, and cannot 
be contained, and supports the whole world. If, then, the whole 
creation is supported by the
Son of God, what think ye of those who are called by Him, and 
bear the name of the Son of God, and walk in His commandments? do 
you see what kind of persons He supports? Those who bear His name 
with their whole heart. He Himself, accordingly, became a foundation 
 to them, and supports them with joy, because they are not 
ashamed to bear His name." 

CHAPTER XV. 
"Explain to me, sir," I said, "the names of these virgins, and 
of those women who were clothed in black raiment." "Hear," he said, 
"the names of the stronger virgins who stood at the comers. The 
first is Faith, the second Continence, the third Power, the 
fourth Patience. And the others standing in the midst of these have 
the following names: Simplicity, Innocence, Purity, Cheerfulness, 
Truth, Understanding, Harmony, Love. He who bears these names and 
that of the Son of God will be able to enter into the kingdom of 
God. Hear, also," he continued, "the names of the women who had the 
black garments; and of these four are stronger than the rest. The 
first is Unbelief, the second: Incontinence, the third Disobedience, 
the fourth Deceit. And their followers are called Sorrow, 
Wickedness, Wantonness, Anger, Falsehood, Folly, Backbiting, Hatred. 
The servant of God who bears these names shall see, indeed, the 
kingdom of God, but shall not enter into it." "And the stones, sir," 
I said, "which were taken out of the pit and fitted into the 
building: what are they?" "The first," he said, "the ten, viz, that 
were placed as a foundation, are the first generation, and the 
twenty-five the second generation, of righteous men; and the 
thirty-five are the prophets of God and His ministers; and the forty 
are the apostles and teachers of the preaching of the Son of God." 
 "Why, then, sir," I asked, "did the virgins carry these stones 
also through the gate, and give them for the building of the tower?" 
"Because," he answered, "these were the first who bore these 
spirits, and they never departed from each other, neither the 
spirits from the men nor the men from the spirits, but the spirits 
remained with them until their falling asleep. And unless they had 
had these spirits with them, they would not have been of use for the 
building of this tower." 

CHAPTER XVI
"Explain to me a little further, sir," I said. "What is it that 
you desire?" he asked. "Why, sir," I said, "did these stones ascend 
out of the pit, and be applied to the building of the tower, after 
having borne these spirits? "They were obliged," he answered, "to 
ascend through water in order that they might be made alive; for, 
unless they laid aside the deadness of their life, they could not in 
any other way enter into the kingdom of God. Accordingly, those also 
who fell asleep received the seal of the Son of God. For," he 
continued, "before a man bears the name of the Son of God s he is 
dead; but when he receives the seal he lays aside his deadness, and 
obtains life. The seal, then, is the water: they descend into the 
water dead, and they arise alive. And to them, accordingly, was this 
seal preached, and they made use of it that they might enter into 
the kingdom of God." "Why, sir," I asked, "did the forty stones also 
ascend with them out of the pit, having already received the seal?" 
"Because," he said, "these apostles and teachers who preached the 
name of the Son of God, after falling asleep in the power and faith 
of the Son of God, preached it not only to those who were asleep, 
but themselves also gave them the seal of the preaching. Accordingly 
they descended with them into the water, and again ascended. [But 
these descended alive and rose up again alive; whereas they who had 
previously fallen asleep descended dead, but rose up again alive. 
] By these, then, were they quickened and made to know the name 
of the Son of God. For this reason also did they ascend with them, 
and were fitted along with them into the building of the tower, and, 
untouched by the chisel, were built in along with them. For they 
slept in righteousness and in great purity, but only they had not 
this seal. You have accordingly the explanation of these also." 

CHAPTER XVII
"I understand, sir," I replied. "Now, sir," I continued, 
"explain to me, with respect to the mountains, why their forms are 
various and diverse." 

"Listen," he said: "these mountains are the twelve tribes, which 
inhabit the whole world. The Son of God, accordingly, was 
preached unto them by the apostles." "But why are the mountains of 
various kinds, some having one form, and others another? Explain 
that to me, sir." "Listen," he answered: "these twelve tribes that 
inhabit the whole world are twelve nations. And they vary in 
prudence and understanding. As numerous, then, as are the varieties 
of the mountains which you saw,
are also the diversities of mind and understanding among these 
nations. And I will explain to you the actions of each one." "First, 
sir," I said, "explain this: why, when the mountains are so diverse, 
their stones, when placed in the building, became one colour, 
shining like those also that had ascended out of the pit." 
"Because," he said, "all the nations that dwell under heaven were 
called by hearing and believing upon the name of the Son of God. 
Having, therefore, received the seal, they had one understanding and 
one mind; and their faith became one, and their love one, and with 
the name they bore also the spirits of the virgins. On this 
account the building of the tower became of one colour, bright as 
the sun. But after they had entered into the same place, and became 
one body, certain of these defiled themselves, and were expelled 
from the race of the righteous, and became again what they were 
before, or rather worse." 

CHAPTER XVIII
"How, sir," I said, "did they become worse, after having known 
God?" "He that does not know God," he answered, "and practises 
evil, receives a certain chastisement for his wickedness; but he 
that has known God, ought not any longer to do evil, but to do good. 
If, accordingly, when he ought to do good, he do evil, does not he 
appear to do greater evil than he who does not know God? For this 
reason, they who have not known God and do evil are condemned to 
death; but they who have known God, and have seen His mighty works, 
and still continue in evil, shall be chastised doubly, and shall die 
for ever. In this way, then, will the Church of God be purified. 
For as you saw the stones rejected from the tower, and delivered to 
the evil spirits, and cast out thence, so [they also shall be cast 
out, and ] there shall be one body of the purified; as the tower 
also became, as it were, of one stone after its purification. In 
like manner also shall it be with the Church of God, after it has 
been purified, and has rejected the wicked, and the hypocrites, and 
the blasphemers, and the waverers, and those who commit wickedness 
of different kinds. After these have been cast away, the Church of 
God shall be one body, of one mind, of one understanding, of one 
faith, of one love. And then the Son of God will be exceeding glad, 
and shall rejoice over them, because He has received His people 
pure." "All these things, sir," I said, "are great and glorious. 

"Moreover, sir," I said, "explain to me the power and the 
actions of each one of the mountains, that every soul, trusting in 
the Lord, and hearing it, may glorify His great, and marvellous, and 
glorious name." "Hear," he said, "the diversity of the mountains and 
of the twelve nations. 

CHAPTER XIX
"From the first mountain, which was black, they that believed 
are the following: apostates and blasphemers against the Lord, and 
betrayers of the servants of God. To these repentance is not open; 
but death lies before them, and on this account also are they black, 
for their race is a lawless one. And from the second mountain, which 
was bare, they who believed are the following: hypocrites, and 
teachers of wickedness. And these, accordingly, are like the former, 
not having any fruits of righteousness; for as their mountain was 
destitute of fruit, so also such men have a name indeed, but are 
empty of faith, and there is no fruit of truth in them. They indeed 
have repentance in their power, if they repent quickly; but if they 
are slow in so doing, they shall die along with the former." "Why, 
sir," I said, "have these repentance, but the former not? for their 
actions are nearly the same." "On this account," 

he said, "have these repentance, because they did not blaspheme 
their Lord, nor become betrayers of the servants of God; but on 
account of their desire of possessions they became hypocritical, and 
each one taught according to the desires of men that were sinners. 
But they will suffer a certain punishment; and repentance is before 
them, because they were not blasphemers or traitors. 

CHAPTER XX
"And from the third mountain, which had thorns and thistles, 
they who believed are the following. There are some of them rich, 
and others immersed in much business. The thistles are the rich, and 
the thorns are they who are immersed in much business. Those, 
[accordingly, who are entangled in many various kinds of business, 
do not ] cleave to the servants of God, but wander away, being 
choked by their business transactions; and the rich cleave with 
difficulty to the servants of God, fearing lest these should ask 
something of them. Such persons, accordingly, shall have difficulty 
in entering the kingdom of God. For as it is disagreeable to walk 
among thistles with naked feet, so also it is hard for such to enter 
the kingdom of God. 

But to all these repentance, and that speedy, is open, in order 
that what they did not do in former 
times they may make up for in these days, and do some good, and 
they shall live unto God. But if they abide in their deeds, they 
shall be delivered to those women, who will put them to death. 

CHAPTER XXI
"And from the fourth mountain, which had much grass, the upper 
parts of the plants green, and the parts about the roots withered, 
and some also scorched by the sun, they who believed are the 
following: the doubtful, and they who have the Lord upon their lips, 
but have Him not in their heart. On this account their foundations 
are withered, and have no strength; and their words alone live, 
while their works are dead. Such persons are [neither alive nor ] 
dead. They resemble, therefore, the waverers: for the wavering are 
neither withered nor green, being neither living nor dead. For as 
their blades, on seeing the sun, were withered, so also the 
wavering, when they hear of affliction, on account of their fear, 
worship idols, and are ashamed of the name of their Lord. Such, 
then, are neither alive nor dead. But these also may yet live, if 
they repent quickly; and if they do not repent, they are already 
delivered to the women, who take away their life. 

CHAPTER XXII.
"And from the fifth mountain, which had green grass, and was 
rugged, they who believed are the following: believers, indeed, but 
slow to learn, and obstinate, and pleasing themselves, wishing to 
know everything, and knowing nothing at all. On account of this 
obstinacy of theirs, understanding departed from them, and foolish 
senselessness entered into them. And they praise themselves as 
having wisdom, and desire to become teachers, although destitute of 
sense. On account, therefore, of this loftiness of mind, many became 
vain, exalting themselves: for self-will and empty confidence is a 
great demon. Of these, accordingly, many were rejected, but some 
repented and believed, and subjected themselves to those that had 
understanding, knowing their own foolishness. And to the rest of 
this class repentance is open; for they were not wicked, but rather 
foolish, and without understanding. If these therefore repent, they 
will live unto God; but if they do not repent, they shall have their 
dwelling with the women who wrought wickedness among them. 

CHAPTER XXIII.
"And those from the sixth mountain, which had clefts large and 
small, and decayed grass in the clefts, who believed, were the 
following: they who occupy the small clefts are those who bring 
charges against one another, and by reason of their slanders have 
decayed in the faith. Many of them, however, repented; and the rest 
also will repent when they hear my commandments, for their slanders 
are small, and they will quickly repent. But they who occupy the 
large clefts are persistent in their slanders, and vindictive in 
their anger against each other. These, therefore, were thrown away 
from the tower, and rejected from having a part in its building. 
Such persons, accordingly, shall have difficulty in living. If our 
God and Lord, who rules over all things, and has power over all His 
creation, does not remember evil against those who confess their 
sins, but is merciful, does man, who is corruptible and full of 
sins, remember evil against a fellow-man, as if he were able to 
destroy or to save him? I, the angel of repentance, say unto 
you, As many of you as are of this way of thinking, lay it aside, 
and repent, and the Lord will heal your former sins, if you purify 
yourselves from this demon; but if not, you will be delivered over 
to him for death. 

CHAPTER XXIV.
"And those who believed from the seventh mountain, on which the 
grass was green and flourishing, and the whole of the mountain 
fertile, and every kind of cattle and the fowls of heaven were 
feeding on the grass on this mountain, and the grass on which they 
pastured became more abundant, were the following: they were always 
simple, and harmless, and blessed, bringing no charges against one 
another, but always rejoicing greatly because of the servants of 
God, and being clothed with the holy spirit of these virgins, and 
always having pity on every man, and giving aid from their own 
labour to every man, without reproach and without hesitation. 
The Lord, therefore, seeing their simplicity and all their meekness, 
multiplied them amid the labours of their hands, and gave them grace 
in all their doings. And I, the angel of repentance, say to you who 
are such, Continue to be such as these, and your seed will never be 
blotted out; for the Lord has made trial of you, and inscribed you 
in the number of us, and the whole of your seed will dwell with the 
Son of God; for ye have received of His Spirit. 

CHAPTER XXV.
"And they who believed from the eighth mountain, where were the 
many fountains, and where all the creatures of God drank of the 
fountains, were the following: apostles, and teachers, who preached 
to the whole world, and who taught solemnly and purely the word of 
the Lord, and
did not at all fall into evil desires, but walked always in 
righteousness and truth, according as they had received the Holy 
Spirit. Such persons, therefore, shall enter in with the angels. 

CHAPTER XXVI.
"And they who believed from the ninth mountain, which was 
deserted, and had in it creeping things and wild beasts which 
destroy men, were the following: they who had the stains as 
servants, who discharged their duty ill, and who plundered 
widows and orphans of their livelihood, and gained possessions for 
themselves from the ministry, which they had received. If, 
therefore, they remain under the dominion of the same desire, they 
are dead, and there is no hope of life for them; but if they repent, 
and finish their ministry in a holy manner, they shall be able to 
live. And they who were covered with scabs are those who have denied 
their Lord, and have not returned to Him again; but becoming 
withered and desert-like, and not cleaving to the servants of God, 
but living in solitude, they destroy their own souls. For as a vine, 
when left within an enclosure, and meeting with neglect, is 
destroyed, and is made desolate by the weeds, and in time grows 
wild, and is no longer of any use to its master, so also are such 
men as have given themselves up, and become useless to their Lord, 
from having contracted savage habits. These men, therefore, have 
repentance in their power, unless they are found to have denied from 
the heart; but if any one is found to have denied from the heart, I 
do not know if he may live. And I say this not for these present 
days, in order that any one who has denied may obtain repentance, 
for It is impossible for him to be saved who now intends to deny his 
Lord; but to those who denied Him long ago, repentance seems to be 
possible. If, therefore, any one intends to repent, let him do so 
quickly, before the tower is completed; for if not, he will be 
utterly destroyed by the women. And the chipped stones are the 
deceitful and the slanderers; and the wild beasts. which you saw on 
the ninth mountain, are the same. For as wild beasts destroy and 
kill a man by their poison, so also do the words of such men destroy 
and ruin a man. These, accordingly, are mutilated in their faith, on 
account of the deeds which they have done in themselves; yet some 
repented, and were saved. And the rest, who are of such a character, 
can be saved if they repent; but if they do not repent, they will 
perish with those women, whose strength they have assumed. 

CHAPTER XXVII.
"And from the tenth mountain, where were trees which 
overshadowed certain sheep, they who believed were the following: 
bishops given to hospitality, who always gladly received into 
their houses the servants of God, without dissimulation. And the 
bishops never failed to protect, by their service, the widows, and 
those who were in want, and always maintained a holy conversation. 
All these, accordingly, shall be protected by the Lord for ever. 
They who do these things are honourable before God, and their place 
is already with the angels, if they remain to the end serving God. 

CHAPTER XXVIII.
"And from the eleventh mountain, where were trees full of 
fruits, adorned with fruits of various kinds, they who believed were 
the following: they who suffered for the name of the Son of God, and 
who also suffered cheerfully with their whole heart, and laid down 
their lives." "Why, then, sir," I said, "do all these trees bear 
fruit, and some of them fairer than the rest? "Listen," he said: 
"all who once suffered for the name of the Lord are honourable 
before God; and of all these the sins were remitted, because they 
suffered for the name of the Son of God. And why their fruits 
are of various kinds, and some of them superior, listen. All," he 
continued, "who were brought before the authorities and were 
examined, and did not deny, but suffered cheerfully--these are held 
in greater honour with God, and of these the fruit is superior; but 
all who were cowards, and in doubt, and who reasoned in their hearts 
whether they would deny or confess, and yet suffered, of these the 
fruit is less, because that suggestion came into their hearts; for 
that suggestion--that a servant should deny his Lord--is evil. Have 
a care, therefore, ye who are planning such things, lest that 
suggestion remain in your hearts, and 
ye perish unto God. And ye who suffer for His name ought to 
glorify God, because He deemed you worthy to bear His name, that all 
your sins might be healed. [Therefore, rather deem yourselves 
happy], and think that ye have done a great thing, if any of you 
suffer on account of God. The Lord bestows upon you life, and ye do 
not understand, for your sins were heavy; but if you had not 
suffered for the name of the Lord, ye would have died to God on 
account of your sins. These things I say to you who are hesitating 
about denying or confessing: acknowledge that ye have the Lord, 
lest, denying Him, ye be delivered up to prison. If the heathen 
chastise their slaves, when one of them denies his master, what, 
think ye, will your Lord do, who has authority over all men? Put 
away these counsels out of your hearts, that you may live 
continually unto God. 

CHAPTER XXIX.
"And they who believed from the twelfth mountain, which was 
white, are the following: they are as infant children, in whose 
hearts no evil originates; nor did they know what wickedness is, but 
always remained as children. Such accordingly, without doubt, dwell 
in the kingdom of God, because they defiled in nothing the 
commandments of God; but they remained like children all the days of 
their life in the same mind. All of you, then, who shall remain 
stedfast, and be as children, without doing evil, will be more 
honoured than all who have been previously mentioned; for all 
infants are honourable before God, and are the first persons with 
Him. Blessed, then, are ye who put away wickedness from 
yourselves, and put on innocence. As the first of all will you live 
unto God." 

After he had finished the similitudes of the mountains, I said 
to him, "Sir, explain to me now about the stones that were taken out 
of the plain, and put into the building instead of the stones that 
were taken out of the tower; and about the round stones that were 
put into the building; and those that still remain round." 

CHAPTER XXX.
"Hear," he answered, "about all these also. The stones taken out 
of the plain and put into the building of the tower instead of those 
that were rejected, are the roots of this white mountain. When, 
therefore, they who believed from the white mountain were all found 
guileless, the Lord of the tower commanded those from the roots of 
this mountain to be cast into the building of the tower; for he knew 
that if these stones were to go to the building of the tower, they 
would remain bright, and not one of them become black. But if he 
had so resolved with respect to the other mountains, it would have 
been necessary for him to visit that tower again, and to cleanse it. 
Now all these persons were found white who believed, and who will 
yet believe, for they are of the same race. This is a happy race, 
because it is innocent. Hear now, further, about these round and 
shining stones. All these also are from the white mountain. Hear, 
moreover, why they were found round: because their riches had 
obscured and darkened them a little from the truth, although they 
never departed from God; nor did any evil word proceed out of their 
mouth, but all justice, virtue, and truth. When the Lord, therefore, 
saw the mind of these persons, that they were born good, and 
could be good, He ordered their riches to be cut down, not to be 
taken s away for ever, that they might be able to do some good with 
what was left them; and they will live unto God, because they are of 
a good race. Therefore were they rounded a little by the chisel, and 
put in the building of the tower. 

CHAPTER XXXI.
"But the other round stones, which had not yet been adapted to 
the building of the tower, and had not yet received the seal, were 
for this reason put back into their place, because they are 
exceedingly round. Now this age must be cut down in these things, 
and in the vanities of their riches, and then they will meet in the 
kingdom of God; for they must of necessity enter into the kingdom of 
God, because the Lord has blessed this innocent race. Of this race. 
therefore, no one will perish; for although any of them be tempted 
by the most wicked devil, and commit sin, he will quickly return to 
his Lord. 

I deem you happy, I, who am the messenger of repentance, whoever 
of you are innocent as children, because your part is good, and 
honourable before God. 

Moreover, I say to you all, who have received the seal of the 
Son of God, be clothed with simplicity, and be not mindful of 
offences, nor remain in wickedness. Lay aside, therefore, the 
recollection of your offences and bitternesses, and you will be 
formed in one spirit. And heal and take away from you those wicked 
schisms, that if the Lord of the flocks come, He may rejoice 
concerning you. And He will rejoice, if He find all things sound, 
and none of you shall perish. But if He find any one of these sheep 
strayed, woe to the shepherds! And if the shepherds themselves have 
strayed, what answer will they give Him for their flocks? 
Will they perchance say that they were harassed by their flocks? 
They will not be believed, for the thing is incredible that a 
shepherd could suffer from his flock; rather will he be punished on 
account of his falsehood. And I myself am a shepherd, and I am under 
a most stringent necessity of rendering an account of you. 

CHAPTER XXXII.
"Heal yourselves, therefore, while the tower is still building. 
The Lord dwells in men that love peace, because He loved peace; but 
from the contentious and the utterly wicked He is far distant. 
Restore to Him, therefore, a spirit sound as ye received it. For 
when you have given to a fuller a new garment, and desire to receive 
it back entire at the end, if, then, the fuller return you a torn 
garment, will you take it from him, and not rather be angry, and 
abuse him, saying, 'I gave you a garment that was entire: 

why have you rent it, and made it useless, so that it can be of 
no use on account of the rent which you have made in it?' Would you 
not say all this to the fuller about the rent which you found in 
your garment? If, therefore, you grieve about your garment, and 
complain because you have not received it entire, what do you think 
the Lord will do to you, who gave you a sound spirit, which you have 
rendered altogether useless, so that it can be of no service to its 
possessor? for its use began to be unprofitable, seeing it was 
corrupted by you. Will not the Lord, therefore, because of this 
conduct of yours regarding His Spirit, act in the same way, and 
deliver you over to death? Assuredly, I say, he will do the same to 
all those whom He shall find retaining a recollection of offences. 
 Do not trample His mercy under foot, He says, but rather honour 
Him, because He is so patient with your sins, and is not as ye are. 
Repent, for it is useful to you. 

CHAPTER XXXIII.
"All these things which are written above, I, the Shepherd, the 
messenger of repentance, have showed and spoken to the servants of 
God. If therefore ye believe, and listen to my words, and walk 
in them, and amend your ways, you shall have it in your power to 
live: but if you remain in wickedness, and in the recollection of 
offences, no sinner of that class will live unto God. All these 
words which I had to say have been spoken unto you." 

The Shepherd said to me," Have you asked me everything?" And I 
replied, "Yes, sir." "Why did you not ask me about the shape of the 
stones that were put into the building, that I might explain to you 
why we filled up the shapes?" And I said, "I forgot, sir." "Hear 
now, then," he said, "about this also. These are they who have now 
heard my commandments, and repented with their whole hearts. And 
when the Lord saw that their repentance was good and pure, and that 
they were able to remain in it, He ordered their former sins to be 
blotted out. For these shapes were their sins, and they were 
levelled down, that they might not appear." 

Tenth Similitude CONCERNING REPENTANCE AND ALMS-GIVING.
CHAPTER I.
After I had fully written down this book, that messenger who had 
delivered me to the Shepherd came into the house in which I was, and 
sat down upon a couch, and the Shepherd stood on his fight hand. He 
then called me, and spoke to me as follows: "I have delivered you 
and your house to the Shepherd, that you may be protected by him." 
"Yes, sir," I said. "If you wish, therefore, to be protected," he 
said, from all annoyance, and from all harsh treatment, and to have 
success in every good work and word, and to possess all the virtues 
of righteousness, walk in these commandments which he has given you, 
and you will be able to subdue all wickedness. For if you keep those 
commandments, every desire and pleasure of the world will be subject 
to you, and success will attend you in every good work. Take unto 
yourself his experience and moderation, and say to all that he is in 
great honour and dignity with God, and that he is a president with 
great power, and mighty in his office. To him alone throughout the 
whole world is the power of repentance assigned. Does he seem to you 
to be powerful? But you despise his experience, and the moderation 
which he exercises towards you." 

CHAPTER II.
I said to him, "Ask himself, sir, whether from the time that he 
has entered my house I have done anything improper, or have offended 
him in any respect." He answered, "I also know that you neither have 
done nor will do anything improper, and therefore I speak these 
words to you, that you may persevere. For he had a good report of 
you to me, and you will say these words to others, that they also 
who have either repented or will still repent may entertain the same 
feelings with you, and he may report well of these to me, and I to 
the Lord." And I 
said, "Sir, I make known to every man the great works of God: 
and I hope that all those who love them, and have sinned before, on 
heating these words, may repent, and receive life again." "Continue, 
therefore, in this ministry, and finish it. And all who follow out 
his commands shall have life, and great honour with the Lord. 
But those who do not keep his commandments, flee from his life, and 
despise him. But he has his own honour with the LOrd. All, 
therefore, who shall despise him, and not follow his commands, 
deliver themselves to death, and every one of them will be guilty of 
his own blood. 

But I enjoin you, that you obey his commands, and you will have 
a cure for your former sins. 

CHAPTER III.
"Moreover, I sent you these virgins, that they may dwell with 
you. For I saw that they were courteous to you. You will 
therefore have them as assistants, that you may be the better able 
to keep his commands: for it is impossible that these commandments 
can be observed without these virgins. I see, moreover, that they 
abide with you willingly; but I will also instruct them not to 
depart at all from your house: do you only keep your house pure, as 
they will delight to dwell in a pure abode. For they are pure, and 
chaste, and industrious, and have all influence with the Lord. 
Therefore, if they find your house to be pure, they will remain with 
you; but if any defilement, even a little, befall it, they will 
immediately withdraw from your house. For these virgins do not at 
all like any defilement." I said to him, "I hope, sir, that I will 
please them, so that they may always be willing to inhabit my house. 
And as he to whom you entrusted me has no complaint against me, so 
neither will they have." He said to the Shepherd, "I see that the 
servant of God wishes to live, and to keep these commandments, and 
will place these virgins in a pure habitation." When he had 
spoken these words he again delivered me to the Shepherd, and called 
those virgins, and said to them, "Since I see that you are willing 
to dwell in his house, I commend him and his house to you, asking 
that you withdraw not at all from it." And the virgins heard these 
words with pleasure. 

CHAPTER IV
The angel then said to me, "Conduct yourself manfully in 
this service, and make known to every one the great things of God, 
 and you will have favour in this ministry. Whoever, therefore, 
shall walk in these commandments, shall have life, and will be happy 
in his life; but whosoever shall neglect them shall not have life, 
and will be unhappy in this life. Enjoin all, who are able to act 
rightly, not to cease well-doing; for, to practise good works is 
useful to them. And I say that every man ought to be saved from 
inconveniences. For both he who is in want, and he who suffers 
inconveniences in his daily life, is in great torture and necessity. 
Whoever, therefore, rescues a soul of this kind from necessity, will 
gain for himself great joy. For he who is harassed by inconveniences 
of this kind, suffers equal torture with him who is in chains. 
Moreover many, on account of calamities of this sort, when they 
could not endure them, hasten their own deaths. Whoever, then, knows 
a calamity of this kind afflicting a man, and does not save him, 
commits a great sin, and becomes guilty of his blood. Do good 
works, therefore, ye who have received good from the Lord; lest, 
while ye delay to do them, the building of the tower be finished, 
and you be rejected from the edifice: there is now no other tower 
a-building. For on your account was the work of building suspended. 
Unless, then, you make haste to do rightly, the tower will be 
completed, and you will be excluded." 

After he had spoken with me he rose up from the couch, and 
taking the Shepherd and the virgins, he departed. But he said to me 
that he would send back the Shepherd and the virgins to my dwelling. 
Amen. 



