
The Signs Gospel













 Signs 

                  Gospel
Quoting Andrew Bernhard, author of The Lost Gospels,

                 "The following reconstruction 

                  of the hypothetical source employed by the author of the fourth 

                  gospel is derived from the analysis found in Robert Fortna's 

                  The Fourth Gospel and Its Predecessor. The text of the 

                  Signs Gospel has been reconstructed using the New Revised Standard 

                  Version (NRSV) of the Gospel of John; differences between the 

                  text of the Signs Gospel and the NRSV are printed in italics."


John 

                      1
 

(6) There 

                        was a man sent from God, whose name was John. (7) He came 

                        as a witness, so that all might believe through him.
(19) This 

                        is the testimony given by John when priests and Levites 

                        came to ask him, "Who are you?" 
(20) He 

                        confessed, "I am not the Messiah." 
(21) And they 

                        asked him, "What then? Are you Elijah?" 
He said, "I 

                        am not." 
"Are you the 

                        prophet?" 
He answered, 

                        "No." 
(22) Then 

                        they said to him, "Who are you? What do you say about 

                        yourself?" 
(23) He said, 

                        "I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness, 'Make 

                        straight the way of the Lord,' " as the prophet Isaiah 

                        said. I baptize with water. Among you stands (27) the 

                        one who is coming after me; I am not worthy to untie the 

                        thong of his sandal." 
(28) He saw 

                        Jesus coming toward him and declared, "Here is the Lamb 

                        of God. I came for this reason, that he might be revealed 

                        to Israel. I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like 

                        a dove on him. (34) And I myself have seen and have testified 

                        that this is the Son of God." 
 
 



 
 

(35) Now 

                        John was standing with two of his disciples who 

                        heard him say this, and they followed Jesus. (38) 

                        They said to him, "Rabbi, where are you staying?" 
(39) He said 

                        to them, "Come and see." They came and saw where he was 

                        staying, and they remained with him that day. It was about 

                        four o'clock in the afternoon. 
(40) One of 

                        the two who heard John speak and followed him was Andrew. 

                        (41) He first found his brother Simon and said to him, 

                        "We have found the Messiah." (42) 

                        
He brought 

                        Simon to Jesus, who looked at him and said, "You are Simon 

                        son of John. You are to be called Cephas."
He found Philip 

                        and Jesus said to him, "Follow me." (44) Now Philip 

                        was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.
(45) Philip 

                        found Nathanael and said to him, "We have found him about 

                        whom Moses in the law wrote, Jesus son of Joseph from 

                        Nazareth." 
(46) Nathanael 

                        said to him, "Can anything good come out of Nazareth?" 

                        
Philip said 

                        to him, "Come and see." 
(47) When 

                        Jesus saw Nathanael coming toward him, he said of him, 

                        "Here is truly an Israelite." 
(49) Nathanael 

                        replied, "Rabbi, you are the Son of God! You are the King 

                        of Israel!"
 
 



John 

                      2
 

(1) There 

                        was a wedding in Cana, and the mother of Jesus was there. 

                        (2) Jesus and his disciples had also been invited to the 

                        wedding. (3) When the wine gave out, the mother of Jesus 

                        said to the servants, "Do whatever he tells you." (6) 

                        Now standing there were six stone water jars, each holding 

                        twenty or thirty gallons. 
(7) Jesus 

                        said to them, "Fill the jars with water." And they filled 

                        them up to the brim. 
(8) He said 

                        to them, "Now draw some out, and take it to the chief 

                        steward." So they took it. 
(9) When the 

                        steward tasted the water that had become wine, the steward 

                        called the bridegroom (10) and said to him, "Everyone 

                        serves the good wine first, and then the inferior wine 

                        after the guests have become drunk. But you have kept 

                        the good wine until now." 
(11) Jesus 

                        did this, the first of his signs; and his disciples believed 

                        in him. 
 
(12) After 

                        this he went down to Capernaum with his disciples.



John 

                      4
 

(46) Now there 

                        was a royal official whose son lay ill in Capernaum. (47) 

                        He went and said to him, "Sir, come down before my little 

                        boy dies." 
(50) Jesus 

                        said, "Go; your son will live." 
The man started 

                        on his way. (51) As he was going down, his slaves met 

                        him and told him that his child was alive. (52) So he 

                        asked them the hour when he began to recover, and they 

                        said to him, "Yesterday at one in the afternoon the fever 

                        left him." (53) So he himself believed, along with his 

                        whole household. 
(54) Now this 

                        was the second sign that Jesus did. 
 
 



John 

                      21
 

 (2) Gathered 

                        there together were Simon Peter, Thomas called the Twin, 

                        Nathanael of Cana, the sons of Zebedee. (3) Simon Peter 

                        said to them, "I am going fishing." 
They said 

                        to him, "We will go with you." 
They went 

                        out and got into the boat, but that night they caught 

                        nothing. 
(4) Just after 

                        daybreak, Jesus stood on the beach. (6) He said to them, 

                        "Cast the net to the right side of the boat, and you will 

                        find some." 
So they cast 

                        it, and now they were not able to haul it in because there 

                        were so many fish. (7) Simon Peter put on some clothes 

                        and jumped into the sea (8) for they were not far from 

                        the land, only about a hundred yards off. (11) So Simon 

                        Peter went ashore and hauled the net ashore, full 

                        of large fish, a hundred fifty-three of them; and though 

                        there were so many, the net was not torn. (14) This was 

                        now the third sign that Jesus did before the 

                        disciples.
 
 



John 

                      6
 

(1) After 

                        this Jesus went to the other side of the Sea of Tiberias. 

                        (3) He went up the mountain and sat down there 

                        with his disciples. (5) When he looked up and saw a large 

                        crowd coming toward him, Jesus said to Philip, "Where 

                        are we to buy bread for these people to eat?" 
(7) Philip 

                        answered him, "Six months' wages would not buy enough 

                        bread for each of them to get a little." 
(8) One of 

                        his disciples said to him, (9) "There is a boy here who 

                        has five barley loaves and two fish. But what are they 

                        among so many people?" 
(10) Jesus 

                        said, "Make the people sit down." Now there was a great 

                        deal of grass in the place; so they sat down, about five 

                        thousand in all. (11) Then Jesus took the loaves, and 

                        when he had given thanks, he distributed them to those 

                        who were seated; so also the fish, as much as they wanted. 

                        
(13) And from 

                        the fragments of the five barley loaves, left by those 

                        who had eaten, they filled twelve baskets. (14) When the 

                        people saw the sign that he had done, they began to say, 

                        "This is indeed the prophet who is to come into the world." 

                        
(15) Jesus 

                        withdrew again to the mountain by himself. (16) When 

                        evening came, his disciples went down to the sea, (17) 

                        got into a boat, and started across the sea to Capernaum. 

                        (18) The sea became rough because a strong wind was blowing. 

                        (19) When they had rowed about three or four miles, they 

                        saw Jesus walking on the sea, and they were terrified. 

                        (20) But he said to them, "It is I; do not be afraid." 

                        (21) And immediately the boat reached the land toward 

                        which they were going. 
 
 



John 

                      11
 

(1) Now a 

                        certain Mary; (2) her brother Lazarus was ill. (3) She 

                        sent a message to Jesus, "Lord, he whom you love is 

                        ill." 
(7) He said 

                        to the disciples, "Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep. 

                        Let us go to him." 
(17) When 

                        Jesus arrived, he found that Lazarus had already been 

                        in the tomb four days. (32) When Mary saw him, she knelt 

                        at his feet and said to him, "Lord, if you had been here, 

                        my brother would not have died." 
(33) When 

                        Jesus saw her weeping, he was greatly disturbed in spirit 

                        and deeply moved. (34) He said, "Where have you laid him?" 

                        
They said 

                        to him, "Lord, come and see." 
(38) Then 

                        Jesus came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone was 

                        lying against it. (39) Jesus said, "Take away the stone." 

                        Then he cried with a loud voice, "Lazarus, come 

                        out!" 
(44) The dead 

                        man came out, his hands and feet bound with strips of 

                        cloth, and his face wrapped in a cloth. Jesus said to 

                        them, "Unbind him, and let him go." 
(45) Those 

                        who had seen what Jesus did, believed in him. 
 
 



John 

                      9
 

(1) As he 

                        walked along, he saw a man blind from birth. (6) He spat 

                        on the ground and made mud with the saliva and spread 

                        the mud on the man's eyes, (7) saying to him, "Go, wash 

                        in the pool of Siloam." Then he went and washed and 

                        came back able to see. (8) The neighbors and those who 

                        had seen him before as a beggar began to ask, "Is this 

                        not the man who used to sit and beg?" 
 
 



John 

                      5
 

(2) Now in 

                        Jerusalem by the Sheep Gate there is a pool, called in 

                        Hebrew Beth-zatha, which has five porticoes. (3) In these 

                        lay many invalids—blind, lame, and paralyzed. (5) One 

                        man was there who had been ill for thirty-eight years. 

                        (6) When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had 

                        been there a long time, he said to him, "Do you want to 

                        be made well?" 
(7) The sick 

                        man answered him, "Sir, I have no one to put me into the 

                        pool when the water is stirred up; and while I am making 

                        my way, someone else steps down ahead of me." 
(8) Jesus 

                        said to him, "Stand up, take your mat and walk." 
(9) At once 

                        the man was made well, and he took up his mat and began 

                        to walk. 
 
 



John 

                      2
 

(14) In the 

                        temple Jesus found people selling cattle, sheep, 

                        and doves, and the money changers seated at their tables. 

                        (15) Making a whip of cords, he drove all of them out 

                        of the temple, both the sheep and the cattle. He also 

                        poured out the coins of the money changers and overturned 

                        their tables. (16) He told those who were selling the 

                        doves, "Take these things out of here! Stop making my 

                        Father's house a marketplace!" 
(18) The Jews 

                        then said to him, "What sign can you show us for doing 

                        this?" 
19 Jesus answered 

                        them, "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise 

                        it up."
 
 



John 

                      11
 

(47) So the 

                        chief priests called a meeting of the council, and said, 

                        "This man is performing many signs. (48) If we let him 

                        go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and the 

                        Romans will come and destroy our nation." 
(49) But one 

                        of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said 

                        to them, (50) "It is better for you to have one man 

                        die for the people than to have the whole nation destroyed." 

                        (53) So from that day on they planned to put him to death. 

                        



John 

                      12
 

(37) Although 

                        he had performed so many signs, they did not believe in 

                        him. (38) This was to fulfill the word spoken by the prophet 

                        Isaiah: "Lord, who has believed our message, and to whom 

                        has the arm of the Lord been revealed?" (39) And so they 

                        could not believe, because Isaiah also said, (40) "He 

                        has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, so that 

                        they might not look with their eyes, and understand with 

                        their heart and turn— and I would heal them."
 
 
(1) Six days 

                        before the Passover Jesus came to Bethany, the home of 

                        Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. (2) There they 

                        gave a dinner for him. Martha served, and Lazarus was 

                        one of those at the table with him. (3) Mary took a pound 

                        of costly perfume made of pure nard, anointed Jesus, and 

                        wiped them with her hair. The house was filled with the 

                        fragrance of the perfume. 
(4) But Judas 

                        Iscariot, one of his disciples, said, (5) "Why was this 

                        perfume not sold for three hundred denarii and the money 

                        given to the poor?" 
(7) Jesus 

                        said, "She bought it so that she might keep it for the 

                        day of my burial. (8) You always have the poor with you, 

                        but you do not always have me." 
 
 
(12) The next 

                        day the great crowd that had come to the festival heard 

                        that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. (13) So they took 

                        branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, shouting, 

                        "Hosanna! Blessed is the one who comes in the name of 

                        the Lord— the King of Israel!" 
(14) Jesus 

                        found a young donkey and sat on it; as it is written: 

                        (15) "Do not be afraid, daughter of Zion. Look, your king 

                        is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt!"
 
 



John 

                      13
 

(1) Now before 

                        the festival of the Passover, Jesus knew that his hour 

                        had come to depart from this world and go to the Father. 

                        Having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them 

                        to the end. (2) The devil had already put it into the 

                        heart of Judas son of Simon Iscariot to betray him. And 

                        during supper (3) Jesus, knowing that the Father had given 

                        all things into his hands, and that he had come from God 

                        and was going to God, (4) got up from the table, took 

                        off his outer robe, and tied a towel around himself. (5) 

                        Then he poured water into a basin and began to wash the 

                        disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel that was 

                        tied around him. (6) He came to Simon Peter, who said 

                        to him, "Lord, are you going to wash my feet?" 
(7) Jesus 

                        answered, "You do not know now what I am doing, but later 

                        you will understand." 
(8) Peter 

                        said to him, "You will never wash my feet." 
Jesus answered, 

                        "Unless I wash you, you have no share with me." 
(9) Simon 

                        Peter said to him, "Lord, not my feet only but also my 

                        hands and my head!" 
(10) Jesus 

                        said to him, "One who has bathed does not need to wash, 

                        except for the feet, but is entirely clean. And you are 

                        clean, though not all of you." (11) For he knew who was 

                        to betray him; for this reason he said, "Not all of you 

                        are clean." 
(12) After 

                        he had washed their feet, had put on his robe, and had 

                        returned to the table, he said to them, "Do you know what 

                        I have done to you? (13) You call me Teacher and Lord—and 

                        you are right, for that is what I am. (14) So if I, your 

                        Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought 

                        to wash one another's feet. (15) For I have set you an 

                        example, that you also should do as I have done to you. 

                        (16) Very truly, I tell you, servants are not greater 

                        than their master, nor are messengers greater than the 

                        one who sent them. (17) If you know these things, you 

                        are blessed if you do them. (18) I am not speaking of 

                        all of you; I know whom I have chosen. But it is to fulfill 

                        the scripture, 'The one who ate my bread has lifted his 

                        heel against me.' (19) I tell you this now, before it 

                        occurs, so that when it does occur, you may believe that 

                        I am he. (20) Very truly, I tell you, whoever receives 

                        one whom I send receives me; and whoever receives me receives 

                        him who sent me." 
 
 



John 

                      18
 

(1) Jesus 

                        went out with his disciples across the Kidron valley to 

                        a place where there was a garden. (2) Now Judas, who betrayed 

                        him, also knew the place, because Jesus often met there 

                        with his disciples. (3) So Judas brought a detachment 

                        of soldiers together with police from the chief priests, 

                        and they came there with lanterns and torches and weapons. 

                        (4) Then Jesus asked them, "Whom are you looking for?" 

                        
(5) They answered, 

                        "Jesus of Nazareth." 
Jesus replied, 

                        "I am he." 
(10) 

                        Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, drew it, struck the 

                        high priest's slave, and cut off his right ear. The slave's 

                        name was Malchus. 
(11) Jesus 

                        said to Peter, "Put your sword back into its sheath. Am 

                        I not to drink the cup that the Father has given me?" 

                        (12) So the soldiers, their officer, and the Jewish police 

                        arrested Jesus and bound him. 
 
 
(13) First 

                        they took him to Annas, who was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, 

                        the high priest that year. (15) Simon Peter and another 

                        disciple followed Jesus. Since that disciple was known 

                        to the high priest, he went with Jesus into the courtyard 

                        of the high priest, (16) but Peter was standing outside 

                        at the gate. So the other disciple, who was known to the 

                        high priest, went out, spoke to the woman who guarded 

                        the gate, and brought Peter in. 
(17) The woman 

                        said to Peter, "You are not also one of this man's disciples, 

                        are you?" 
He said, "I 

                        am not." 
(18) Now the 

                        slaves and the police had made a charcoal fire because 

                        it was cold, and they were standing around it and warming 

                        themselves. Peter also was standing with them and warming 

                        himself. 
(19) Then 

                        the high priest questioned Jesus about his teaching. (20) 

                        Jesus answered, "I have always taught in the temple, where 

                        all come together. (21) Why do you ask me?" 
(22) When 

                        he had said this, one of the police standing nearby struck 

                        Jesus on the face, saying, "Is that how you answer the 

                        high priest?" 
(24) Then 

                        Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas the high priest. (25)They 

                        asked him, "You are not also one of his disciples, are 

                        you?" 
He denied 

                        it and said, "I am not." 
(26) One of 

                        the slaves of the high priest, a relative of the man whose 

                        ear Peter had cut off, asked, "Did I not see you in the 

                        garden with him?" 
(27) Again 

                        Peter denied it, and at that moment the cock crowed. 
 
 
(28) Then 

                        they took Jesus from Caiaphas to Pilate's headquarters. 

                        It was early in the morning. (29) Pilate said, "What accusation 

                        do you bring against this man?" 
(33) Then 

                        Pilate summoned Jesus and asked him, "Are you the King 

                        of the Jews?" 
Jesus answered, 

                        "You say that I am a king." 
(38) He told 

                        them, "I find no case against him. (39) But you have a 

                        custom that I release someone for you at the Passover. 

                        Do you want me to release for you the King of the Jews?" 

                        
(40) They 

                        shouted in reply, "Not this man, but Barabbas!" Now Barabbas 

                        was a bandit.



John 

                      19
 

(1) Then Pilate 

                        took Jesus and had him flogged. (2) And the soldiers wove 

                        a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and they dressed 

                        him in a purple robe. (3) They kept coming up to him, 

                        saying, "Hail, King of the Jews!" and striking him on 

                        the face. 
(6) And the 

                        police saw him, they shouted, "Crucify him! Crucify him!" 

                        
Pilate said 

                        to them, "I find no case against him." 
(13) Pilate 

                        brought Jesus outside and sat on the judge's bench at 

                        a place called The Stone Pavement, or in Hebrew Gabbatha. 

                        (14) Now it was the day of Preparation; and it was about 

                        noon. (16) Then he handed him over to them to be crucified. 

                        
 
 
So they took 

                        Jesus. (17) He went out to what is called The Place of 

                        the Skull, which in Hebrew is called Golgotha. (18) There 

                        they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either 

                        side. (19) And there was written, "Jesus of Nazareth, 

                        the King of the Jews." (20) And it was written in Hebrew, 

                        in Latin, and in Greek. 
(23) When 

                        the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his clothes 

                        and divided them into four parts, one for each soldier. 

                        They also took his tunic; now the tunic was seamless, 

                        woven in one piece from the top. (24) So they said to 

                        one another, "Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it 

                        to see who will get it." This was to fulfill what the 

                        scripture says, "They divided my clothes among themselves, 

                        and for my clothing they cast lots." 
(25) And that 

                        is what the soldiers did. Meanwhile, standing near the 

                        cross of Jesus were his mother, and his mother's sister, 

                        Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. (28) After 

                        this, he said (in order to fulfill the scripture), "I 

                        am thirsty." 
(29) A jar 

                        full of sour wine was standing there. So they put a sponge 

                        full of the wine on a branch of hyssop and held it to 

                        his mouth. 
(30) When 

                        Jesus had received the wine, he said, "It is finished." 

                        Then he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. 
(31) Since 

                        it was the day of Preparation, the Jews did not want the 

                        bodies left on the cross during the sabbath. So they asked 

                        Pilate to have the legs of the crucified men broken and 

                        the bodies removed. (32) Then the soldiers came and broke 

                        the legs of the first and of the other who had been crucified 

                        with him. (33) But when they came to Jesus and saw that 

                        he was already dead, they did not break his legs. (34) 

                        Instead, one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, 

                        and at once blood and water came out. (36) These things 

                        occurred so that the scripture might be fulfilled, "None 

                        of his bones shall be broken." 
(37) And again 

                        another passage of scripture says, "They will look on 

                        the one whom they have pierced." (38) After these things, 

                        Joseph of Arimathea, who was a disciple of Jesus, asked 

                        Pilate to let him take away the body of Jesus. Pilate 

                        gave him permission; so he came and removed his body and 

                        wrapped it with the spices in linen cloths. 
(41) Now there 

                        was a garden in the place where he was crucified, and 

                        in the garden there was a new tomb in which no one had 

                        ever been laid. (42) And so, because it was the day of 

                        Preparation, and the tomb was nearby, they laid Jesus 

                        there. 
 
 



John 

                      20
 

(1) Early 

                        on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the 

                        tomb and saw that the stone had been removed from the 

                        tomb. (2) So she ran and went to Simon Peter and said, 

                        "They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not 

                        know where they have laid him." 
(3) Then Peter 

                        set out and went toward the tomb and went into the tomb. 

                        (9) For as yet they did not understand the scripture, 

                        that he must rise from the dead. (10) Then he returned 

                        to his home. 
(11) But Mary 

                        stood weeping outside the tomb. As she wept, she bent 

                        over to look into the tomb; (12) and she saw two angels 

                        in white, sitting where the body of Jesus had been lying, 

                        one at the head and the other at the feet. (14) She turned 

                        around and saw Jesus standing there. 
(15) Jesus 

                        said to her, "Whom are you looking for, Mary?" 
She said to 

                        him in Hebrew, "Rabbouni!." 
(17) Jesus 

                        said to her, "Do not hold on to me. But go to my brothers." 

                        
(18) Mary 

                        Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, "I have 

                        seen the Lord." 
(19) When 

                        it was evening on that day and the doors of the house 

                        where the disciples had met were locked, Jesus came and 

                        stood among them and said, "Peace be with you." (20) He 

                        showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples 

                        rejoiced when they saw the Lord. 
(22) He breathed 

                        on them and said to them, "Receive the Holy Spirit."
(30) Now Jesus 

                        did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, 

                        which are not written in this book. (31) But these are 

                        written so that you may come to believe that Jesus is 

                        the Messiah, the Son of God.



 
 
 
 
 
 


