
Tatian's Address to the Greeks












FRAGMENTS OF TATIAN 
[TRANSLATED BY J. E. RYLAND.] 
I. 
IN his treatise, Concerning Perfection according to the Saviour, he writes, 
"Consent indeed fits for prayer, but fellowship in corruption weakens 
supplication. At any rate, by the permission he certainly, though delicately, 
forbids; for while he permits them to return to the same on account of Satan and 
incontinence, he exhibits a man who will attempt to serve two masters--God by 
the 'consent' (1 Cor. vii. 5), but by want of consent, incontinence, 
fornication, and the devil."--CLEM. ALEX: Strom., iii. C. 12. 
II. 
A certain person inveighs against generation, calling it corruptible and 
destructive; and some one does violence [to Scripture], applying to pro-creation 
the Saviour's words, "Lay not up treasure on earth, where moth and rust 
corrupt;" and he is not ashamed to add to these the words of the prophet: "You 
all shall grow old as a garment, and the moth shall devour you." 
And, in like manner, they adduce the saying concerning the resurrection of 
the dead, "The sons of that world neither marry nor are given in 
marriage."--CLEM. ALEX.: iii. c. 12, 86. 
III. 
Tatian, who maintaining the imaginary flesh of Christ, pronounces all sexual 
connection impure, who was also the very violent heresiarch of the Encratites, 
employs an argument of this sort: "If any one sows to the flesh, of the flesh he 
shall reap corruption;" but he sows to the flesh who is joined to a woman; 
therefore he who takes a wife and sows in the flesh, of the flesh he shall reap 
corruption.--HIERON.: Com. in Ep. ad Gal. 
IV. 
Seceding from the Church, and being elated and puffed up by a conceit of his 
teacher, as if he were superior to the rest, he formed his own peculiar type of 
doctrine. Imagining certain invisible AEons like those of Valentinus, and 
denouncing marriage as defilement and fornication in the same way as Marcion and 
Saturninus, and denying the salvation of Adam as an opinion of his 
own.--IRENAEUS: Adv. Hoer., i. 28. 
V. 
Tatian attempting from time to time to make use of Paul's language, that in 
Adam all die, but ignoring that "where sir, abounded, grace has much more 
abounded."--IRENAEUS: Adv. Heres., iii. 37. 
VI. 
Against Tatian, who says that the words, "Let there be light," are to be 
taken as a prayer. If He who uttered it knew a superior God, how is it that He 
says, "I am God, and there is none beside me"? >He said that there are 
punishments for blasphemies, foolish talking, and licentious words, which are 
punished and chastised by the Logos. And he said that women were punished on 
account of their hair and ornaments by a power placed over those things, which 
also gave strength to Samson by his hair, and punishes those who by the ornament 
of their hair are urged on to fornication.--CLEM. ALEX.: Frag. 
VII. 
But Tatian, not understanding that the expression "Let there be" is not 
always precative but sometimes imperative, most impiously imagined concerning 
God, who said "Let there be light," that He prayed rather than commanded light 
to be, as if, as he impiously thought, God was in darkness.--ORIGEN: De Orat. 
VIII. 
Tatian separates the old man and the new, but not, as we say, understanding 
the old man to be the law, and the new man to be the Gospel. We agree with him 
in saying the same thing, but not in the sense he wishes, abrogating the law as 
if it belonged to another God.--CLEM. ALEX.: Strom., iii. 12. 
IX. 
Tatian condemns and rejects not only marriage, but also meats which God has 
created for use.--HIERON.: Adv. Jovin., i. 3. 
X. 
"But ye gave the Nazarites wine to drink, and commanded the prophets, saying, 
Prophesy not." On this, perhaps, Tatian the chief of the Encratites endeavours 
to build his heresy, asserting that wine is not to be drunk, since it was 
commanded in the law that the Nazarites were not to drink wine, and now those 
who give the Nazarites wine are accused by the prophet.--HIERON.: Com. in Amos. 
XI. 
Tatian, the patriarch of the Encratites, who himself rejected some of Paul's 
Epistles, believed this especially, that is [addressed] to Tires, ought to be 
declared to be the apostle's, thinking little of the assertion of Marcion and 
others, who agree with him on this point.--HIERON.: Proef. in Com. ad Tit. 
XII. 
[Archelaus (A.D. 280), Bishop of Carrha in Mesopotamia, classes his 
countryman Tatian with "Marcion, Sabellius, and others who have made up for 
themselves a peculiar science," i.e., a theology of their own.--ROUTH: 
Reliquioe, tom. v. p. 137. But see Edinburgh Series of this work, vol. xx. p. 
267.] 


