
Tertullian












Tertullian 
To his wife
BOOK I. 
CHAP. I.--DESIGN OF THE TREATISE. 
DISAVOWAL OF PERSONAL MOTIVES IN WRITING IT. 
I HAVE thought it meet, my best beloved fellow-servant in the Lord, even from 
this early period, to provide for the course which you must pursue after my 
departure from the world, if I shall be called before you; (and) to entrust to 
your honour the observance of the provision. For in things worldly we are active 
enough, and we wish the good of each of us to be consulted. If we draw up wills 
for such matters, why ought we not much more to take forethought for our 
posterity in things divine and heavenly, and in a sense to bequeath a legacy to 
be received before the inheritance be divided,-- (the legacy, I mean, of) 
admonition and demonstration touching those (bequests) which are allotted out of 
(our) immortal goods, and from the heritage of the heavens? Only, that you may 
be able to receive in its entirety this feoffment in trust of my admonition, may 
God grant; whom be honour, glory, renown, dignity, and power, now and to the 
ages of the ages! 
The precept, therefore, which I give you is, that, with all the constancy you 
may, you do, after our departure, renounce nuptials; not that you will on that 
score confer any benefit on me, except in that you will profit yourself. 
But to Christians, after their departure from the world, no restoration of 
marriage is promised in the day of the resurrection, translated as they will be 
into the condition and sanctity of angels. Therefore no solicitude arising from 
carnal jealousy will, in the day of the resurrection, even in the case of her 
whom they chose to represent as having been married to seven brothers 
successively, wound any one of her so many husbands; nor is any (husband) 
awaiting her to put her to confusion. The question raised by the Sadducees has 
yielded to the Lord's sentence. Think not that it is for the sake of preserving 
to the end for myself the entire devotion of your flesh, that I, suspicious of 
the pain of (anticipated) slight, am even at this early period instilling into 
you the counsel of (perpetual) widowhood. There will at that day be no 
resumption of voluptuous disgrace between us. No such frivolities, no such 
impurities, does God promise to His (servants). But whether to you, or to any 
other woman whatever who pertains to God, the advice which we are giving shall 
be profitable, we take leave to treat of at large. 
CHAP. II.--MARRIAGE LAWFUL, BUT NOT POLYGAMY. 
We do not indeed forbid the union of man and woman, blest by God as the 
seminary of the human race, and devised for the replenishment of the earth and 
the furnishing of the world, and therefore permitted, yet Singly. For Adam was 
the one husband of Eve, and Eve his one wife, one woman, one rib. We grant, that 
among our ancestors, and the patriarchs themselves, it was lawful not only to 
marry, but even to multiply wives. There were concubines, too, (in those days.) 
But although the Church did come in figuratively in the synagogue, yet (to 
interpret simply) it was necessary to institute (certain things) which should 
afterward deserve to be either lopped off or modified. For the Law was (in due 
time) to supervene. (Nor was that enough:) for it was meet that causes for 
making up the deficiencies of the Law should have forerun (Him who was to supply 
those deficiencies). And so to the Law presently had to succeed the Word of God 
introducing the spiritual circumcision. Therefore, by means of the wide licence 
of those days, materials for subsequent emendations were furnished beforehand, 
of which materials the Lord by His Gospel, and then the apostle in the last days 
of the (Jewish) age, either cut off the redundancies or regulated the disorders. 

CHAP. III.--MARRIAGE GOOD: CELIBACY PREFERABLE. 
But let it not be thought that my reason for premising thus much concerning 
the liberty granted to the old, and the restraint imposed on the later time, is 
that I may lay a foundation for teaching that Christ's advent was intended to 
dissolve wedlock, (and) to abolish marriage talons; as if from this period 
onward I were prescribing an end to marrying. Let them see to that, who, among 
the rest of their perversities, teach the disjoining of the "one flesh in 
twain;" denying Him who, after borrowing the female from the male, recombined 
between themselves, in the matrimonial computation, the two bodies taken out of 
the consortship of the self-same material substance. In short, there is no place 
at all where we read that nuptials are prohibited; of course on the ground that 
they are "a good thing." What, however, is better than this "good," we learn 
from the apostle, who permits marrying indeed, but prefers abstinence; the 
former on account of the insidiousnesses of temptations, the latter on account 
of he straits of the times. Now, by looking into the reason thus given for each 
proposition, it is easily discerned that the ground on which the power of 
marrying is conceded is necessity; but whatever necessity grants, she by her 
very nature depreciates. In fact, in that it is written, "To marry is better 
than to burn," what, pray, is the nature of this "good" which is (only) 
commended by comparison with "evil," so that the reason why" marrying" is mare 
good is (merely) that "burning" is less? Nay, but how far better is it neither 
to marry nor to burn? Why, even in persecutions it is better to take advantage 
of the permission granted, and "flee from town to town," than, when apprehended 
and racked, to deny (the faith). And therefore more blessed are they who have 
strength to depart (this life) in blessed confession of their testimony. I may 
say, What is permitted is not goad. For how stands the case? I must of necessity 
die (if I be apprehended and confess my faith.) If I think (that fate) 
deplorable, (then flight) is good; but if I have a fear of the thing which is 
permitted, (the permitted thing) has some suspicion attaching to the cause of 
its permission. But that which is "better" no one (ever) "permitted," as being 
undoubted, and manifest by its own inherent purity. There are some things which 
are not to be desired merely because they are not forbidden, albeit they are in 
a certain sense forbidden when other things are preferred to them; for the 
preference given to the higher things is a dissuasion from the lowest. A thing 
is not "good" merely because it is not "evil," nor is it "evil" merely because 
it is not "harmful." Further: that which is fully "good" excels on this ground, 
that it is not only not harmful, but profitable into the bargain. For you are 
bound to prefer what is profitable to what is (merely) not harmful. For the 
first place is what every struggle aims at; the second has consolation attaching 
to it, but not victory. But if we listen to the apostle, forgetting what is 
behind, let us both strain after what is before, and be followers after the 
better rewards. Thus, albeit he does not "east a snare upon us," he points out 
what tends to utility when he says, "The unmarried woman thinks on the things of 
the Lord, that both in body and spirit she may be holy; but the married is 
solicitous how to please her husband." But he nowhere permits marriage in such a 
way as not rather to wish us to do our utmost in imitation of his own example. 
Happy the man who shall prove like Paul! 

CHAP. IV.--OF THE INFIRMITY OF THE FLESH, AND SIMILAR PLEAS. 
But we read "that the flesh is weak;" and hence we soothe ourselves in some 
cases. Yet we read, too, that "the spirit is strong;" for each clause occurs in 
one and the same sentence. Flesh is an earthly, spirit a heavenly, material. 
Why, then, do we, too prone to self-excuse, put forward (in our defence) the 
weak part of us, but not look at the strong? Why should not the earthly yield to 
the heavenly? If the spirit is stronger than the flesh, because it is withal of 
nobler origin, it is our own fault if we follow the weaker. Now there are two 
phases of human weakness which make marriages necessary to such as are disjoined 
from matrimony. The first and most powerful is that which arises from fleshly 
concupiscence; the second, from worldly concupiscence. But by us, who are 
servants of God, who renounce both voluptuousness and ambition, each is to be 
repudiated. Fleshly concupiscence claims the functions of adult age, craves 
after beauty's harvest, rejoices in its own shame, pleads the necessity of a 
husband to the female sex, as a source of authority and of comfort, or to render 
it safe from evil rumours. To meet these its counsels, do you apply the examples 
of sisters of ours whose names are with the Lord,--who, when their husbands have 
preceded them (to glory), give to no opportunity of beauty or of age the 
precedence over holiness. They prefer to be wedded to God. To God their beauty, 
to God their youth (is dedicated). With Him they live; with Him they converse; 
Him they "handle" by day and by night; to the Lord they assign their prayers as 
dowries; from Him, as oft as they desire it, they receive His approbation as 
dotal gifts. Thus they have laid hold for themselves of an eternal gift of the 
Lord; and while on earth, by abstaining from marriage, are already counted as 
belonging to the angelic family. Training yourself to an emulation of (their) 
constancy by the examples of such women, you will by spiritual affection bury 
that fleshly concupiscence, in abolishing the temporal and fleeting desires of 
beauty and youth by the compensating gain of immortal blessings. 
On the other hand, this worldly concupiscence (to which I referred) has, as 
its causes, glory, cupidity, ambition, want of sufficiency; through which causes 
it trumps up the "necessity" for marrying,--promising itself, forsooth, heavenly 
things in return--to lord it, (namely,) in another's family; to roost on 
another's wealth; to extort splendour from another's store to lavish expenditure 
which you do not feel! Far be all this from believers, who have no care about 
maintenance, unless it be that we distrust the promises of God, and (His) care 
and providence, who clothes with such grace the lilies of the field; who, 
without any labour on their part, feeds the fowls of the heaven; who prohibits 
care to be taken about to-morrow's food and clothing, promising that He knows 
what is needful for each of His servants--not indeed ponderous necklaces, not 
burdensome garments, not Gallic mules nor German bearers, which all add lustre 
to the glory of nuptials; but "sufficiency," which is suitable to moderation and 
modesty, Presume, I pray you, that you have need of nothing if you "attend upon 
the Lord;" nay, that you have all things, if you have the Lord, whose are all 
things. Think often on things heavenly, and you will despise things earthly. To 
widowhood signed and sealed before the Lord nought is necessary but 
perseverance. 
CHAP. V.--OF THE LOVE OF OFFSPRING AS A PLEA FOR MARRIAGE. 
Further reasons for marriage which men allege for themselves arise from 
anxiety for posterity, and the bitter, bitter pleasure of children. To us this 
is idle. For why should we be eager to bear children, whom, when we have them, 
we desire to send before us (to glory) (in respect, I mean, of the distresses 
that are now imminent); desirous as we are ourselves, too, to be taken out of 
this most wicked world, and received into the Lord's presence, which was the 
desire even of an apostle? To the servant of God, forsooth, offspring is 
necessary! For of our own salvation we are secure enough, so that we have 
leisure for children! Burdens must be sought by us for ourselves which are 
avoided even by the majority of the Gentiles, who are compelled by laws, who are 
decimated by abortions; burdens which, finally, are to us most of all 
unsuitable, as being perilous to faith! For why did the Lord foretell a "woe to 
them that are with child, and them that give suck," except because He testifies 
that in that day of disencumbrance the encumbrances of children will be an 
inconvenience? It is to marriage, of course, that those encumbrances appertain; 
but that ("woe") will not pertain to widows. (They) at the first trump of the 
angel will spring forth disencumbered--will freely bear to the end whatsoever 
pressure and persecution, with no burdensome fruit of marriage heaving in the 
womb, none in the bosom. 
Therefore, whether it be for the sake of the flesh, or of the world, or of 
posterity, that marriage is undertaken, nothing of all these "necessities" 
affects the servants of God, so as to prevent my deeming it enough to have once 
for all yielded to some one of them, and by one marriage appeased all 
concupiscence of this kind. Let us marry daily, and in the midst of our marrying 
let us be overtaken, like Sodom and Gomorrah, by that day of fear! For there it 
was not only, of course, that they were dealing in marriage and merchandise; but 
when He says, "They were marrying and buying," He sets a brand upon the very 
leading vices of the flesh and of the world, which call men off the most from 
divine disciplines--the one through the pleasure of rioting, the other though 
the greed of acquiring. And yet that "blindness" then was felt long before "the 
ends of the world." What, then, will the case be if God now keep us from the 
vices which of old were detestable before Him? "The time," says (the apostle), 
"is compressed. It remaineth that they who have wives act as if they had them 
not." 
CHAP. VI.--EXAMPLES OF HEATHENS URGED AS COMMENDATORY OF WIDOWHOOD AND 
CELIBACY. 
But if they who have (wives) are (thus) bound to consign to oblivion what 
they have, how much more are they who have not, prohibited from seeking a second 
time what they no longer have; so that she whose husband has departed from the 
world should thenceforward impose rest on her sex by abstinence from 
marriage--abstinence which numbers of Gentile women devote to the memory of 
beloved husbands! When anything seems difficult, let us survey others who cope 
with still greater difficulties. How many are there who from the moment of their 
baptism set the seal (of virginity) upon their flesh? How many, again, who by 
equal mutual consent cancel the debt of matrimony-voluntary eunuchs for the sake 
of their desire! after the celestial kingdom! But if, while the marriage-tie is 
still intact, abstinence is endured, how much more when it has been undone! For 
I believe it to be harder for what is intact to be quite forsaken, than for what 
has been lost not to be yearned after. A hard and arduous thing enough, surely, 
is the continence for God's sake of a holy woman after her husband's decease, 
when Gentiles, in honour of their own Satan, endure sacerdotal offices which 
involve both virginity and widowhood! At Rome, for instance, they who have to do 
with the type of that "inextinguishable fire," keeping watch over the omens of 
their own (future) penalty, in company with the (old) dragon himself, are 
appointed on the ground of virginity. To the Achaean Juno, at the town Aegium, a 
virgin is allotted; and the (priestesses) who rave at Delphi know not marriage. 
Moreover, we know that widows minister to the African Ceres; enticed away, 
indeed, from matrimony by a most stem oblivion: for not only do they withdraw 
from their still living husbands, but they even introduce other wives to them in 
their own room--the husbands, of course, smiling on it--all contact (with 
males), even as far as'the kiss of their sons, being forbidden them; and yet, 
with enduring practice, they persevere in such a discipline of widowhood, which 
excludes the solace even of holy affection. These precepts has the devil given 
to his servants, and he is heard! He challenges, forsooth, God's servants, by 
the continence of his own, as if on equal terms! Continent are even the priests 
of hell! For he has found a way to ruin men _ even in good pursuits; and with 
him it makes no difference to slay some by voluptuousness, some by continence. 
CHAP. VII.--THE DEATH OF A HUSBAND IS GOD'S CALL TO THE WIDOW TO CONTINENCE. 
FURTHER EVIDENCES FROM SCRIPTURE AND FROM HEATHENISM. 
To us continence has been pointed out by the Lord of salvation as an 
instrument for attaining eternity, and as a testimony of (our) faith; as a 
commendation of this flesh of ours, which is to be sustained for the "garment of 
immortality," which is one day to supervene; for enduring, in fine, the will of 
God. Besides, reflect, I advise you, that there is no one who is taken out of 
the world but by the will of God, if, (as is the case,) not even a leaf falls 
from off a tree without it. The same who brings us into the world? must of 
necessity take us out of it too. Therefore when, through the will of God, the 
husband is deceased, the marriage likewise, by the will of God, deceases. Why 
should you restore what GOD has put an end to? Why do you, by repeating the 
servitude of matrimony, spurn the liberty which is offered you? "You have been 
bound to a wife," sap the apostle; "seek not loosing. You have been loosed from 
a wife; seek not binding." For even if you do not "sin" in re-marrying, still he 
says "pressure of the flesh ensues." Wherefore, so far as we can, let us love 
the opportunity of continence; as soon as it offers itself, let us resolve to 
accept it, that what we have not had strength (to follow) in matrimony we may 
follow in widowhood. The occasion must be embraced which puts an end to that 
which necessity commanded. How detrimental to faith, how obstructive to 
holiness, second marriages are, the discipline of the Church and the 
prescription of the apostle declare, when he suffers not men twice married to 
preside (over a Church), when he would not grant a widow admittance into the 
order unless she had been "the wife of one man;" for it behoves God's altar to 
be set forth pure. That whole halo which encircles the Church is represented (as 
consisting) of holiness. Priesthood is (a function) of widowhood and of 
celibacies among the nations. Of course (this is) in conformity with the devil's 
principle of rivalry. For the king of heathendom, the chief pontiff, to marry a 
second time is unlawful. How pleasing must holiness be to God, when even His 
enemy affects it!--not, of course, as having any affinity with anything good, 
but as contumeliously affecting what is pleasing to God the Lord. 
CHAP. VIII.--CONCLUSION. 
For, concerning the honours which widowhood enjoys in the sight of God, there 
is a brief summary in one saying of His through the prophet: "Do thou justly to 
the widow and to the orphan; and come ye, let us reason, saith the LORD." These 
two names, left to the care of the divine mercy, in proportion as they are 
destitute of human aid, the Father of all undertakes to defend. Look how the 
widow's benefactor is put on a level with the widow herself, whose champion 
shall "reason with the LORD!" Not to virgins, I take it, is so great a gift 
given. Although in their case perfect integrity and entire sanctity shall have 
the nearest vision of the face of God, yet the widow has a task more toilsome, 
because it is easy not to crave after that which you know not, and to turn away 
from what you have never had to regret. More glorious is the continence which is 
aware of its own right, which knows what it has seen. The virgin may possibly be 
held the happier, but the widow the more hardly tasked; the former in that she 
has always kept "the good," the latter in that she has found "the good for 
herself." In the former it is grace, in the latter virtue, that is crowned. For 
some things there are which are of the divine liberality, some of our own 
working. The indulgences granted by the Lord are regulated by their own grace; 
the things which are objects of man's striving are attained by earnest pursuit. 
Pursue earnestly, therefore, the virtue of continence, which is modesty's agent; 
industry, which allows not women to be "wanderers;" frugality, which scorns the 
world. Follow companies and conversations worthy of God, mindful of that short 
verse, sanctified by the apostle's quotation of it, "Ill interviews good morals 
do corrupt." Talkative, idle, winebibbing, curious tent-fellows, do the very 
greatest hurt to the purpose of widow-hood. Through talkativeness there creep in 
words unfriendly to modesty; through idleness they seduce one from strictness; 
through winebibbing they insinuate any and every evil; through curiosity they 
convey a spirit of rivalry in lust. Not one of such women knows how to speak of 
the good of single-husbandhood; for their "god," as the apostle says, "is their 
belly;" and so, too, what is neighbour to the belly. 
These considerations, dearest fellow-servant, I commend to you thus early, 
handled throughout superfluously indeed, after the apostle, but likely to prove 
a solace to you, In that (if so it shall turn out) you will cherish my memory in 
them. 
BOOK II. 
CHAP. I.--REASONS WHICH LED TO THE WRITING OF THIS SECOND BOOK. 
Very lately, best beloved fellow-servant in the Lord, I, as my ability 
permitted, entered for your benefit at some length into the question what course 
is to be followed by a holy woman when her marriage has (in whatever way) been 
brought to an end. Let us now turn our attention to the next best advice, in 
regard of human infirmity; admonished hereto by the examples of certain, who, 
when an opportunity for the practice of Continence has been offered them, by 
divorce, or by the decease of the husband, have not only thrown away the 
opportunity of attaining so great a good, but not even in their remarriage have 
chosen to be mindful of the rule that "above all they marry in the Lord." And 
thus my mind has been thrown into confusion, in the fear that, having exhorted 
you myself to perseverance in single husbandhood and widowhood, I may now, by 
the mention of precipitate marriages, put "an occasion of falling" in your way. 
But if you are perfect in wisdom, you know, of course, that the course which is 
the more useful is the course which you must keep. But, inasmuch as that course 
is difficult, and not without its embarrassments, and on this account is the 
highest aim of (widowed) life, I have paused somewhat (in my urging you to it); 
nor would there have been any causes for my recurring to that point also in 
addressing you, had I not by this time taken up a still graver solicitude. For 
the nobler is the continence of the flesh which ministers to widowhood, the more 
pardonable a thing it seems if it be not persevered in. For it is then when 
things are difficult that their pardon is easy. But in as far as marrying "in 
the Lord" is permissible, as being within our power, so far more culpable is it 
not to observe that which you can observe. Add to this the fact that the 
apostle, with regard to widows and the unmarried, advises them to remain 
permanently in that state, when he says, "But I desire all to persevere in 
(imitation of) my example:" but touching marrying "in the Lord," he no longer 
advises, but plainly bids. Therefore in this case especially, if we do not obey, 
we run a risk, because one may with more impunity neglect an "advice" than an 
"order;" in that the former springs from counsel, and is proposed to the will 
(for acceptance or rejection): the other descends from authority, and is bound 
to necessity. In the former case, to disregard appears liberty, in the latter, 
contumacy. 
CHAP. lI.--OF THE APOSTLE'S MEANING IN I COR. VII. 12-14. 
Therefore, when in these days a certain woman removed her marriage from the 
pale of the Church, and united herself to a Gentile, and when I remembered that 
this had in days gone by been done by others: wondering at either their own 
waywardness or else the double-dealing of their advisers, in that there is no 
scripture which holds forth a licence of this deed,--"I wonder," said I, 
"whether they flatter themselves on the ground of that passage of the first 
(Epistle) to the Corinthians, where it is written: If any of the brethren has an 
unbelieving wife, and she consents to the matrimony, let him not dismiss her; 
similarly, let not a believing woman, married to an unbeliever, if she finds her 
husband agreeable (to their continued union), dismiss him: for the unbelieving 
husband is sanctified by the believing wife, and the unbelieving wife by the 
believing husband; else were your children unclean.' " It may be that, by 
understanding generally this monition regarding married believers, they think 
that licence is granted (thereby) to marry even unbelievers. God forbid that he 
who thus interprets (the passage) be wittingly ensnaring himself! But it is 
manifest that this scripture points to those believers who may have been found 
by the grace of God in (the state of) Gentile matrimony; according to the words 
themselves: "If," it says, "any believer has an unbelieving wife;" it does not 
say, "takes an unbelieving wife." It shows that it is the duty of one who, 
already living in marriage with an unbelieving woman, has presently been by the 
grace of God converted, to continue with his wife; for this reason, to be sure, 
in order that no one, after attaining to faith, should think that he must turn 
away from a woman who is now in some sense an "alien" and "stranger." 
Accordingly he subjoins withal a reason, that "we are called in peace unto the 
Lord God;" and that "the unbeliever may, through the use of matrimony, be gained 
by the believer." The very closing sentence of the period confirms (the 
supposition) that this is thus to be understood. "As each," it says, "is called 
by the Lord, so let him persevere." But it is Gentiles who "are called," I take 
it, not believers. 
But if he had been pronouncing absolutely, (in the words under discussion,) 
touching the marriage of believers merely, (then) had he (virtually) given to 
saints a permission to marry promiscuously. If, however, he had given such a 
permission, he would never have subjoined a declaration so diverse from and 
contrary to his own permission, saying: "The woman, when her husband is dead, is 
free: let her marry whom. she wishes, only in the Lord." Here, at all events, 
there is no need for reconsidering; for what there might have been 
reconsideration about, the Spirit has oracularly declared. For fear we should 
make an ill use of what he says, "Let her marry whom she wishes," he has added, 
"only in the Lord," that is, in the name of the Lord, which is, undoubtedly, "to 
a Christian." That "Holy Spirit," therefore, who prefers that widows and 
unmarried women should persevere in their integrity, who exhorts us to a copy of 
himself, prescribes no other manner of repeating marriage except "in the Lord:" 
to this condition alone does he concede the foregoing of continence. "Only," he 
says, "in the Lord:" he has added to his law a weight--"only." Utter that word 
with what tone and manner you may, it is weighty: it both bids and advises; both 
enjoins and exhorts; both asks and threatens. It is a concise, brief sentence; 
and by its own very brevity, eloquent. Thus is the divine voice wont (to speak), 
that you may instantly understand, instantly observe. For who but could 
understand that the apostle foresaw many dangers and wounds to faith in 
marriages of this kind, which he prohibits? sad that he took precaution, in the 
first place, against the defilement of holy flesh in Gentile flesh? At this 
point some one says, "What, then, is the difference between him who is chosen by 
the Lord to Himself in (the state of) Gentile marriage, and him who was of old 
(that is, before marriage) a believer, that they should not be equally cautious 
for their flesh?--whereas the one is kept from marriage with an unbeliever, the 
other bidden to continue in it. Why, if we are defiled by a Gentile, is not the 
one disjoined, just as the other is not bound?" I will answer, if the Spirit 
give (me ability); alleging, before all (other arguments), that the Lord holds 
it more pleasing that matrimony should not be contracted, than that it should at 
all be dissolved: in short, divorce He prohibits, except for the cause of 
fornication; but continence He commends. Let the one, therefore, have the 
necessity of continuing; the other, further, even the power of not marrying. 
Secondly, if, according to the Scripture, they who shall be "apprehended" "by 
the faith in (the state of) Gentile marriage are not defiled (thereby) for this 
reason, that, together with themselves, others also are sanctified: without 
doubt, they who have been sanctified before marriage, if they commingle 
themselves with "strange flesh," cannot sanctify that (flesh) in (union with) 
which they were not "apprehended." The grace of God, moreover, sanctifies that 
which it finds. Thus, what has not been able to be sanctified is unclean; what 
is unclean has no part with the holy, unless to defile and slay it by its own 
(nature). 
CHAP. III. -- REMARKS ON SOME OF THE "DANGERS AND WOUNDS" REFERRED TO IN THE 
PRECEDING CHAPTER. 
If these things are so, it is certain that believers contracting marriages 
with Gentiles are guilty of fornication, and are to be excluded from all 
communication with the brotherhood, in accordance with the letter of the 
apostle, who says that "with persons of that kind there is to be no taking of 
food even." Or shall we "in that day" produce (our) marriage certificates before 
the Lord's tribunal, and allege that a marriage such as He Himself has forbidden 
has beeb duly contracted? What is prohibited (in the pas sage just referred to) 
is not "adultery;" It is not "fornication." The admission of a strange man (to 
your couch) less violates "the temple of God," less commingles "the members of 
Christ" with the members of an adulteress. So far as I know, "'we are not our 
own, but bought with a price;" and what kind of price? The blood of God. In 
hurting this flesh of ours, therefore, we hurt Him directly. What did that man 
mean who said that "to wed a 'stronger' was indeed a sin, but a very small one?" 
whereas in other cases (setting aside the injury done to the flesh which 
pertains to the Lord) every voluntary sin against the Lord is great. For, in as 
far as there was a power of avoiding it, in so far is it burdened with the 
charge of contumacy. 
Let us now recount the other dangers or wounds (as I have said) to faith, 
foreseen by the apostle; most grievous not to the flesh merely, but likewise to 
the spirit too. For who would doubt that faith undergoes a daily process of 
obliteration by unbelieving intercourse? "Evil confabulations corrupt good 
morals;" how much more fellowship of life, and indivisible intimacy! Any and 
every believing woman must of necessity obey God. And how can she serve two 
lords__ the Lord, and her husband --a Gentile to boot? For in obeying a Gentile 
she will carry out Gentile practices,--personal attractiveness, dressing of the 
head, wordly elegancies, baser blandishments, the very secrets even of matrimony 
tainted: not, as among the saints, where the duties of the sex are discharged 
with honour (shown) to the very necessity (which makes them incumbent), with 
modesty and temperance, as beneath the eyes of God. 
CHAP. IV.--OF THE HINDRANCES WHICH AN UNBELIEVING HUSBAND PUTS IN HIS WIFE'S 
WAY. 
But let her see to (the question) how she discharges her duties to her 
husband. To the Lord, at all events, she is unable to give satisfaction 
according to the requirements of discipline; having at her side a servant of the 
devil, his lord's agent for hindering the pursuits and duties of believers: so 
that if a station is to be kept, the husband at daybreak makes an appointment 
with his wife to meet him at the baths; if there are fasts to be observed, the 
husbandthat same day holds a convivial banquet; if a charitable expedition has 
to be made, never is family business more urgent. For who would suffer his wife, 
for the sake of visiting the brethren, to go round from street to street to 
other men's, and indeed to all the poorer, cottages? Who will willingly bear her 
being taken from his side by nocturnal convocations, if need so be? Who, 
finally, will without anxiety endure her absence all the night long at the 
paschal solemnities? Who will, without some suspicion of his own, dismiss her to 
attend that Lord's Supper which they defame? Who will suffer her to creep into 
prison to kiss a martyr's bonds? nay, truly, to meet any one of the brethren to 
exchange the kiss? to offer water for the saints' feet? to snatch (somewhat for 
them) from her food, from her cup? to yearn (after them)? to have (them) in her 
mind? If a pilgrim brother arrive, what hospitality for him in an alien home? If 
bounty is to be distributed to any, the granaries, the storehouses, are 
foreclosed. 
CHAP. V.--OF SIN AND DANGER INCURRED EVEN WITH A "TOLERANT" HUSBAND. 
"But some husband does endure our (practices), and not annoy us." Here, 
therefore, there is a sin; in that Gentiles know our (practices); in that we are 
subject to the privity of the unjust; in that it is thanks to them that we do 
any (good) work. He who "endures" (a thing) cannot be ignorant of it; or else, 
if he is kept in ignorance because he does not endure, he is feared. But since 
Scripture commands each of two things--namely, that we work for the Lord without 
the privity of any second person, and without pressure upon ourselves, it 
matters not in which quarter you sin; whether in regard to your husband's 
privity, if he be tolerant, or else in regard of your own affliction in avoiding 
his intolerance. "Cast not," saith He, "your pearls to swine, lest they trample 
them to pieces, and turn round and overturn you also." "Your pearls" are the 
distinctive marks of even your daily conversation. The more care you take to 
conceal them, the more liable to suspicion you will make them, and the more 
exposed to the grasp of Gentile curiosity. Shall you escape notice when you sign 
your bed, your body; when you blow away some impurity; when even by night you 
rise to pray? Will you not be-thought to be engaged in some work of magic? Will 
not your husband know what it is which you secretly taste before (taking) any 
food? and if he knows it to be bread, does he not believe it to be that (bread) 
which it is said to be? And will every (husband), ignorant of the reason of 
these things, simply endure them, without murmuring, without suspicion whether 
it be bread or poison? Some, (it is true,) do endure (them); but it is that they 
may trample on, that they may make sport of such women; whose secrets they keep 
in reserve against the danger which they believe in, in case they ever chance to 
be hurt: they do endure (wives), whose dowries, by casting in their teeth their 
(Christian) name, they make the wages of silence; while they threaten them, 
forsooth, with a suit before some spy as arbitrator! which most women, not 
foreseeing, have been wont to discover either by the extortion of their 
property, or else by the loss of their faith. 
CHAP. VI.--DANGER OF HAVING TO TAKE PART IN 
HEATHENISH RITES, AND REVELS. 
The handmaid of God dwells amid alien labours; and among these (labours), on 
all the memorial days of demons, at all solemnities of kings, at the beginning 
of the year, at the beginning of the month, she will be agitated by the odour of 
incense. And she will have to go forth (from her house) by a gate wreathed with 
laurel, and hung with lanterns, as from some new consistory of public lusts; she 
will have to sit with her husband ofttimes in club meetings, oft-times in 
taverns; and, wont as she was formerly to minister to the "saints," will 
sometimes have to minister to the "unjust." And will she not hence recognise a 
prejudgment of her own damnation, in that she tends them whom (formerly) she was 
expecting to judge? whose hand will she yearn after? of whose cup will she 
partake? What will her husband sing to her, or she to her husband? From the 
tavern, I suppose, she who sups upon God will hear somewhat! From hell what 
mention of God (arises)? what invocation of Christ? Where are the fosterings of 
faith by the interspersion of the Scriptures (in conversation)? Where the 
Spirit? where refreshment? where the divine benediction? All things are strange, 
all inimical, all condemned; aimed by the Evil One for the attrition of 
salvation! 
CHAP, VII.--THE CASE OF A HEATHEN WHOSE WIFE IS CONVERTED AFTER MARRIAGE WITH 
HIM VERY DIFFERENT, AND MUCH MORE HOPEFUL. 
If these things may happen to those women also who, having attained the faith 
while in (the state of) Gentile matrimony, continue in that state, still they 
are excused, as having been "apprehended by God" in these very circumstances; 
and they are bidden to persevere in their married state, and are sanctified, and 
have hope of "making a gain" held out to them. "If, then, a marriage of this 
kind (contracted berate conversion) stands ratified before God, why should not 
(one contracted after conversion) too go prosperously forward, so as not to be 
thus harassed by pressures, and straits, and hindrances, and defilements, having 
already (as it has) the partial sanction of divine grace? " Because, on the one 
hand, the wife in the former case, called from among the Gentiles to the 
exercise of some eminent heavenly virtue, is, by the visible proofs of some 
marked (divine) regard, a terror to her Gentile husband, so as to make him less 
ready to annoy her, less active in laying snares for her, less diligent in 
playing the spy over her. He has felt "mighty works; he has seen experimental 
evidences; he knows her changed for the better: thus even he himself is, by his 
fear, a candidate for God. Thus men of this kind, with regard to whom the grace 
of God has established a familiar intimacy, are more easily "gained." But, on 
the other hand, to descend into forbidden ground unsolicited and spontaneously, 
is (quite) another thing. Things which are not pleasing to the Lord, of course 
offend the Lord, are of course introduced by the Evil One. A sign hereof is this 
fact, that it is wooers only who find the Christian name pleasing; and, 
accordingly, some heathen men are found not to shrink in horror from Christian 
women, just in order to exterminate them, to wrest them away, to exclude them 
from the faith. So long as marriage of this kind is procured by the Evil One, 
but condemned by God, you have a reason why you need not doubt that it can in no 
case be carded to a prosperous end. 
CHAP. VIII.--ARGUMENTS DRAWN EVEN FROM HEATHENISH LAWS TO DISCOUNTENANCE 
MARRIAGE WITH UNBELIEVERS. THE HAPPINESS OF UNION BETWEEN PARTNERS IN THE FAITH 
ENLARGED ON IN CONCLUSION. 
Let us further inquire, as if we were in very deed inquisitors of divine 
sentences, whether they be lawfully (thus condemned). Even among the nations, do 
not all the strictest lords and most tenacious of discipline interdict their own 
slaves from marrying out of their own house?--in order, of course, that they may 
not run into lascivious excess, desert their duties purvey their lords' goods to 
strangers. Yet, further, have not (the nations) decided that such women as have, 
after their lords' formal warning, persisted in intercourse with other men's 
slaves, may be claimed as slaves? Shall earthly disciplines be held more strict 
than heavenly prescripts; so that Gentile women, if united to strangers, lose 
their liberty; ours conjoin to themselves the devil's slaves, and continue in 
their (former) position? Forsooth, they will deny that any formal warning has 
been given them by the Lord through His own apostle! 
What am I to fasten on as the cause of this madness, except the weakness of 
faith, ever prone, to the concupiscences of worldly joys?--which, indeed, is 
chiefly found among the wealthier; for the more any is rich, and inflated with 
the name of "matron," the more capacious house does she require for her burdens, 
as it were a field wherein ambition may run its course. To such the churches 
look paltry. A rich man is a difficult thing (to find) in the house of God; and 
if such an one is (found there), difficult (is it to find such) unmarried. What, 
then, are they to do? Whence but from the devil are they to seek a husband apt 
for maintaining their sedan, and their mules, and their hair-curlers of 
outlandish stature? A Christian, even although rich, would perhaps not afford 
(all) these. Set before yourself, I beg of you, the examples of Gentiles. Most 
Gentile women, noble in extraction and wealthy in property, unite themselves 
indiscriminately with the ignoble and the mean, sought out for themselves for 
luxurious, or mutilated for licentious, purposes. Some take up with their own 
freedmen and slaves, despising public opinion, provided they may but have 
(husbands) from whom to fear no impediment to their own liberty. To a Christian 
believer it is irksome to wed a believer inferior to herself in estate, destined 
as she will be to have her wealth augmented in the person of a poor husband! For 
if it is "the pour," not the rich, "whose are the kingdoms of the heavens," the 
rich will find more in the poor (than she brings him, or than she would in the 
rich). She will be dowered with an ampler dowry from the goods of him who is 
rich in God. Let her be on an equality with him. on earth, who in the heavens 
will perhaps not be so. Is there need for doubt, and inquiry, and repeated 
deliberation, whether he whom God has entrusted with His own property is fit for 
dotal endowments? Whence are we to find (words) enough fully to tell the 
happiness of that marriage which the Church cements, and the oblation confirms, 
and the benediction signs and seals; (which) angels carry back the news of (to 
heaven), (which) the Father holds for ratified? For even on earth children do 
not rightly and lawfully wed without their fathers' consent. 
What kind of yoke is that of two believers, (partakers) of one hope, one 
desire, one discipline, one and the same service? Both (are) brethren, both 
fellow servants, no difference of spirit or of flesh; nay, (they are) truly "two 
in one flesh." Where the flesh is one, one is the spirit ton. 
Together they pray, together prostrate themselves, together perform their 
fasts; mutually teaching, mutually exhorting, mutually sustaining. Equally (are 
they) both (found) in the Church of God; equally at the banquet of God; equally 
in straits, in persecutions, in refreshments. Neither hides (ought) from the 
other; neither shuns the other; neither is troublesome to the other. The sick is 
visited, the indigent relieved, with freedom. Alms (are given) without (danger 
of ensuing) torment; sacrifices (attended) without scruple; daily diligence 
(discharged) without impediment: (there is) no stealthy signing, no trembling 
greeting, no mute benediction. Between the two echo psalms and hymns; and they 
mutually challenge each other which shall better chant to their Lord. Such 
things when Christ sees and hears, He joys. To these He sends His own I peace. 
Where two (are), there withal He Himself. Where He, there the Evil One is not. 
These are the things which that utterance of the apostle has, beneath its 
brevity, left to be understood by us. These things, if need shall be, suggest to 
your own mind. By these turn yourself away from the examples of some. To marry 
otherwise is, to believers, not "lawful;" is not "expedient." 
[TRANSLATED BY THE REV. S. THELWALL.] 

