
Tertullian












TERTULLIAN 
OF PATIENCE. 
(TRANSLATED BY THE REV. S. THELWALL.)
CHAP. I.--OF PATIENCE GENERALLY; AND TERTULLIAN'S OWN UNWORTHINESS TO 
TREAT OF IT. 
I FULLY confess unto the Lord God that it has been rash enough, if not even 
impudent, in me to have dared compose a treatise on Patience, for practising 
which I am all unfit, being a man of no goodness; whereas it were becoming that 
such as have addressed themselves to the demonstration and commendation of some 
particular thing, should themselves first be conspicuous in the practice of that 
thing, and should regulate the constancy of their commonishing by the authority 
of their personal conduct, for fear their words blush at the deficiency of their 
deeds. And would that this "blushing" would bring a remedy, so that shame for 
not exhibiting that which we go to suggest to others should prove a tutorship 
into exhibiting it; except that the magnitude of some good things--just as of 
some ills too--is insupportable, so that only the grace of divine inspiration is 
effectual for attaining and practising them. For what is most good rests most 
with God; nor does any other than He who possesses it dispense it, as He deems 
meet to each. And so to discuss about that which it is not given one to enjoy, 
will be, as it were, a solace; after the manner of invalids, who since they are 
without health, know not how to be silent about its blessings. So I, most 
miserable, ever sick with the heats of impatience, must of necessity sigh after, 
and invoke, and persistently plead for, that health of patience which I possess 
not; while I recall to mind, and, in the contemplation of my own weakness, 
digest, the truth, that the good health of faith, and the soundness of the 
Lord's discipline, accrue not easily to any unless patience sit by his side. So 
is patience set over the things of God, that one can obey no precept, fulfil no 
work well-pleasing to the Lord, if estranged from it. The good of it, even they 
who live outside it, honour with the name of highest virtue. Philosophers 
indeed, who are accounted animals of some considerable wisdom, assign it so high 
a place, that, while they are mutually at discord with the various fancies of 
their sects and rivalries of their sentiments, yet, having a community of regard 
for patience alone, to this one of their pursuits they have joined in granting 
peace: for it they conspire; for it they league; it, in their affectation of 
virtue, they unanimously pursue; concerning patience they exhibit all their 
ostentation of wisdom. Grand testimony this is to it, in that it incites even 
the vain schools of the world unto praise and glory! Or is it rather an injury, 
in that a thing divine is bandied among worldly sciences? But let them look to 
that, who shall presently be ashamed of their wisdom, destroyed and disgraced 
together with the world (it lives in). 
CHAP. II.--GOD HIMSELF AN EXAMPLE OF PATIENCE.
To us no human affectation of canine equanimity, modelled by insensibility, 
furnishes the warrant for exercising patience; but the divine arrangement of a 
living and celestial discipline, holding up before us God 708 
Himself in the very first place as an example of patience; who scatters 
equally over just and unjust the bloom of this light; who suffers the good 
offices of the seasons, the services of the elements, the tributes of entire 
nature, to accrue at once to worthy and unworthy; bearing with the most 
ungrateful nations, adoring as they do the toys of the arts and the works of 
their own hands, persecuting His Name together with His family; bearing with 
luxury, avarice, iniquity, malignity, waxing insolent daily: so that by His own 
patience He disparages Himself; for the cause why many believe not in the Lord 
is that they are so long without knowing that He is wroth with the world. 
CHAP.III.--JESUS CHRIST IN HIS INCARNATION AND WORK A MORE IMITABLE 
EXAMPLE THEREOF.
And this species of the divine patience indeed being, as it were, at a 
distance, may perhaps be esteemed as among "things too high for us; " but what 
is that which, in a certain way, has been grasped by hand among men openly on 
the earth? God suffers Himself to be conceived in a mother's womb, and awaits 
the time for birth; and, when born, bears the delay of growing up; and, when 
grown up, is not eager to be recognised, but is furthermore contumelious to 
Himself, and is baptized by His own servant; and repels with words alone the 
assaults of the tempter; while from being" Lord" He becomes" Master," teaching 
man to escape death, having been trained to the exercise of the absolute 
forbearance of offended patience. He did not strive; He did not cry aloud; nor 
did any hear His voice in the streets. He did not break the bruised reed; the 
smoking flax He did not quench: for the prophet--nay, the attestation of God 
Himself, placing His own Spirit, together with patience in its entirety, in His 
Son--had not falsely spoken. There was none desirous of cleaving to Him whom He 
did not receive. No one's table or roof did He despise: indeed, Himself 
ministered to the washing of the disciples' feet; not sinners, not publicans, 
did He repel; not with that city even which had refused to receive Him was He 
wroth, when even the disciples had wished that the celestial fires should be 
forthwith hurled on so contumelious a town. He cared for the ungrateful; He 
yielded to His ensnarers. This were a small matter, if He had not had in His 
company even His own betrayer, and stedfastly abstained from pointing him out. 
Moreover, while He is being betrayed, while He is being led up "as a sheep for a 
victim," (for "so He no more opens His mouth than a lamb under the power of the 
shearer,")He to whom, had He willed it, legions of angels would at one word have 
presented themselves from the heavens, approved not the avenging sword of even 
one disciple The patience of the Lord was wounded in (the wound of) Malchus. And 
so, too, He cursed for the time to come the works of the sword; and, by the 
restoration of health, made satisfaction to him whom Himself had not hurt, 
through Patience, the mother of Mercy. I pass by in silence (the fact) that He 
is crucified, for this was the end for which He had come; yet had the death 
which must be undergone need of contumelies likewise? Nay, but, when about to 
depart, He wished to be sated with the pleasure of patience. He is spitted on, 
scourged, derided, clad foully, more foully crowned. Wondrous is the faith of 
equanimity! He who had set before Him the concealing of Himself in man's shape, 
imitated nought of man's impatience! Hence, even more than from any other trait, 
ought ye, Pharisees, to have recognised the Lord. Patience of this kind none of 
men would achieve. Such and so mighty evidences--the very magnitude of which 
proves to be among the nations indeed a cause for rejection of the faith, but 
among us its reason and rearing--proves manifestly enough (not by the sermons 
only, in enjoining, but likewise by the sufferings of the Lord in enduring) to 
them to whom it is given to believe, that as the effect and excellence of some 
inherent propriety, patience is God's nature. 
CHAP. IV.--DUTY OF IMITATING OUR MASTER TAUGHT US BY SLAVES. EVEN BY 
BEASTS.
OBEDIENT IMITATION IS FOUNDED ON PATIENCE.
Therefore, if we see all servants of probity and right feeling shaping their 
conduct suitably to the disposition of their lord; if, that is, the art of 
deserving favour is obedience, while the rule of obedience is a compliant 
subjection: how much more does it behove us to be found with a character in 
accordance with our Lord,--servants as we are of the 709 
living God, whose judgment on His servants turns not on a fetter or a cap of 
freedom, but on an eternity either of penalty or of salvation; for the shunning 
of which severity or the courting of which liberality there needs a diligence in 
obedience as great as are the comminations themselves which the severity utters, 
or the promises which the liberality freely makes. And yet we exact obedience 
not from men only, who have the bond of their slavery under their chin, or in 
any other legal way are debtors to obedience? but even from cattle, even from 
brutes; understanding that they have been provided and delivered for our uses by 
the Lord. Shall, then, creatures which God makes subject to us be better than we 
in the discipline of obedience? Finally, (the creatures) which obey, acknowledge 
their masters. Do we hesitate to listen diligently to Him to whom alone we are 
subjected--that is, the Lord? But how unjust is it, how ungrateful likewise, not 
to repay from yourself the same which, through the indulgence of your neighbour, 
you obtain from others, to him through whom you obtain it! Nor needs there more 
words on the exhibition of obedience due from us to the Lord God; for the 
acknowledgment of God understands what is incumbent on it. Lest, however, we 
seem to have inserted remarks on obedience as something irrelevant, (let us 
remember) that obedience" itself is drawn from patience. Never does an impatient 
man render it, or a patient fail to find pleasure in it. Who, then, could treat 
largely (enough) of the good of that patience which the Lord God, the 
Demonstrator and Acceptor of all good things, carried about in His own self? To 
whom, again, would it be doubtful that every good thing ought, because it 
pertains to God, to be earnestly pursued with the whole mind by such as pertain 
to God? By means of which (considerations) both commendation and exhortation on 
the subject of patience are briefly, and as it were in the compendium of a 
prescriptive rule, established. 
CHAP, V.--AS GOD IS THE AUTHOR OF PATIENCE
SO THE DEVIL IS OF IMPATIENCE.
Nevertheless, the proceeding of a discussion on the necessaries of faith is 
not idle, because it is not unfruitful. In edification no loquacity is base, if 
it be base at any time. And so, if the discourse be concerning some particular 
good, the subject requires us to review also the contrary of that good. For you 
will throw more light on what is to be pursued, if you first give a digest of 
what is to be avoided. 
Let us therefore consider, concerning Impatience, whether just as patience in 
God, so its adversary quality have been born and detected in our adversary, that 
from this consideration may appear how primarily adverse it is to faith. For 
that which has been conceived by God's rival, of course is not friendly to God's 
things. The discord of things is the same as the discord of their authors. 
Further, since God is best, the devil on the contrary worst, of beings, by their 
own very diversity they testify that neither works for the other; so that 
anything of good can no more seem to be effected for us by the Evil One, than 
anything of evil by the Good. Therefore I detect the nativity of impatience in 
the devil himself, at that very time when he impatiently bore that the Lord God 
subjected the universal works which He had made to His own image, that is, to 
man. For if he had endured (that), he would not have grieved; nor would he have 
envied man if he had not grieved. Accordingly he deceived him, because he had 
envied him; but he had envied because he had grieved: he had grieved because, of 
course, he had not patiently borne. What that angel of perdition" first 
was--malicious or impatient--I scorn to inquire: since manifest it is that 
either impatience took its rise together with malice, or else malice from 
impatience; that subsequently they conspired between themselves; and that they 
grew up indivisible in one paternal bosom. But, however, having been instructed, 
by his own experiment, what an aid unto sinning was that which he had been the 
first to feel, and by means of which he 710 
had entered on his course of delinquency, he called the same to his 
assistance for the thrusting of man into crime. The woman, immediately on being 
met by him--I may say so without rashness--was, through his very speech with 
her, breathed on by a spirit infected with impatience: so certain is it that she 
would never have sinned at all, if she had honoured the divine edict by 
maintaining her patience to the end. What (of the fact) that she endured not to 
have been met alone; but in the presence of Adam, not yet her husband, not yet 
bound to lend her his ears, she is impatient of keeping silence, and makes him 
the transmitter of that which she had imbibed from the Evil One? Therefore 
another human being, too, perishes through the impatience of the one; presently, 
too, perishes of himself, through his own impatience committed in each respect, 
both in regard of God's premonition and in regard of the devil's cheatery; not 
enduring to observe the former nor to refute the latter. Hence, whence (the 
origin) of delinquency, arose the first origin of judgment; hence, whence man 
was induced to offend, God began to be wroth. Whence (came)the first indignation 
in God, thence (came) His first patience; who, content at that time with 
malediction only, refrained in the devil's case from the instant infliction of 
punishment. Else what crime, before this guilt of impatience, is imputed to man? 
Innocent he was, and in intimate friendship with God, and the husbandman of 
paradise. But when once he succumbed to impatience, he quite ceased to be of 
sweet savour to God; he quite ceased to be able to endure things celestial. 
Thenceforward, a creature given to earth, and ejected from the sight of God, he 
begins to be easily turned by impatience unto every use offensive to God. For 
straightway that impatience conceived of the devil's seed, produced, in the 
fecundity of malice, anger as her son; and when brought forth, trained him in 
her own arts. For that very thing which had immersed Adam and Eve in death, 
taught their son, too, to begin with murder. It would be idle for me to ascribe 
this to impatience, if Cain, that first homicide and first fratricide, had borne 
with equanimity and not impatiently the refusal by the Lord of his own 
oblations--if he is not wroth with his own brother--if, finally, he took away no 
one's life. Since, then, he could neither have killed unless he had been wroth, 
nor have been wroth unless he had been impatient, he demonstrates that what he 
did through wrath must be referred to that by which wrath was suggested during 
this cradle-time of impatience, then (in a certain sense) in her infancy. But 
how great presently were her augmentations! And no wonder, If she has been the 
first delinquent, it is a consequence that, because she has been the first, 
therefore she is the only parent stem, too, to every delinquency, pouring down 
from her own fount various veins of crimes. Of murder we have spoken; but, being 
from the very beginning the outcome of anger, whatever causes besides it shortly 
found for itself it lays collectively on the account of impatience, as to its 
own origin. For whether from private enmities, or for the sake of prey, any one 
perpetrates that wickedness, the earlier step is his becoming impatient of" 
either the hatred or the avarice. Whatever compels a man, it is not possible 
that without impatience of itself it can be perfected in deed. Who ever 
committed adultery without impatience of lust? Moreover, if in females the sale 
of their modesty is forced by the price, of course it is by impatience of 
contemning gain that this sale is regulated. These (I mention) as the principal 
delinquencies in the sight of the Lord, for, to speak compendiously, every sin 
is ascribable to impatience. "Evil" is "impatience of good." None immodest is 
not impatient of modesty; dishonest of honesty; impious of piety; unquiet of 
quietness. In order that each individual may become evil he will be unable to 
persevere in being good. How, therefore, can such a hydra of delinquencies fail 
to offend the Lord, the Disapprover of evils? Is it not manifest that it was 
through impatience that Israel himself also always failed in his duty toward 
God, from that time when, forgetful of the heavenly arm whereby he had been 
drawn out of his Egyptian affliction, he demands from Aaron "gods as his 
guides;" when he pours down for an idol the contributions of his gold: for the 
so necessary delays of Moses, while he met with God, he had borne with 
impatience. After the edible rain 711 
of the manna, after the watery following of the rock, they despair of the 
Lord in not enduring a three-days' thirst; for this also is laid to their charge 
by the Lord as impatience. And--not to rove through individual cases--there was 
no instance in which it was not by failing in duty through impatience that they 
perished. How, moreover, did they lay hands on the prophets, except through 
impatience of hearing them? on the Lord moreover Himself, through impatience 
likewise of seeing Him? But had they entered the path of patience, they would 
have been set free. 
CHAP. VI.--PATIENCE BOTH ANTECEDENT AND
SUBSEQUENT TO FAITH.
Accordingly it is patience which is both subsequent and antecedent to faith. 
In short, Abraham believed God, and was accredited by Him with righteousness; 
but it was patience which proved his faith, when he was bidden to immolate his 
son, with a view to (I would not say the temptation, but) the typical 
attestation of his faith. But God knew whom He had accredited with 
righteousness. So heavy a precept, the perfect execution whereof was not even 
pleasing to the Lord, he patiently both heard, and (if God had willed) would 
have fulfilled. Deservedly then was he "blessed." because he was "faithful;" 
deservedly "faithful," because "patient." So faith, illumined by patience, when 
it was becoming propagated among the nations through" Abraham's seed, which is 
Christ," and was superinducing grace over the law, made patience her pre-eminent 
coadjutrix for amplifying and fulfilling the law, because that alone had been 
lacking unto the doctrine of righteousness. For men were of old wont to require 
"eye for eye, and tooth for tooth" and to repay with usury "evil with evil; " 
for, as yet, patience was not on earth, because faith was not either. Of course, 
meantime, impatience used to enjoy the opportunities which the law gave. That 
was easy, while the Lord and Master of patience was absent. But after He has 
supervened, and has united the grace of faith with patience, now it is no longer 
lawful to assail even with word, nor to say "fool" even, without "danger of the 
judgment." Anger has been prohibited, our spirits retained, the petulance of the 
hand checked, the poison of the tongue extracted. The law has found more than it 
has lost, while Christ says, "Love your personal enemies, and bless your 
cursers, and pray for your persecutors, that ye may be sons of your heavenly 
Father." Do you see whom patience gains for us as a Father? In this principal 
precept the universal discipline of patience is succinctly comprised, since 
evil-doing is not conceded even when it is deserved. 
CHAP.VII.--THE CAUSES OF IMPATIENCE, AND THEIR CORRESPONDENT PRECEPTS.
Now, however, while we run through the causes of impatience, all the other 
precepts also will answer in their own places. If our spirit is aroused by the 
loss of property, it is commonished by the Lord's Scriptures, in almost every 
place, to a contemning of the world; nor is there any more powerful exhortation 
to contempt of money submitted (to us), than (the fact) the Lord Himself is 
found amid no riches. He always justifies the poor, fore-condemns the rich. So 
He fore-ministered to patience "loss," and to opulence "contempt" (as portion); 
demonstrating, by means of (His own) repudiation of riches, that hurts done to 
them also are not to be much regarded. Of that, therefore, which we have not the 
smallest need to seek after, because the Lord did not seek after it either, we 
ought to endure without heart-sickness the cutting down or taking away. 
"Covetousness," the Spirit of the Lord has through the apostle pronounced "a 
root of all evils." Let us not interpret that covetousness as consisting merely 
in the concupiscence of what is another's: for even what seems ours is 
another's; for nothing is ours, since all things are God's, whose are we also 
ourselves. And so, if, when suffering from a loss, we feel impatiently, grieving 
for what is lost from what is not our own, we shall be detected as bordering on 
covetousness: we seek what is another's when we ill brook losing what is 
another's. He who is greatly stirred with impatience of a loss, does, by giving 
things earthly the precedence over things heavenly, sin directly against God; 
for the Spirit, which he has received from the Lord, he 712 
greatly shocks for the sake of a worldly matter. Willingly, therefore, let us 
lose things earthly, let us keep things heavenly. Perish the whole world, so I 
may make patience my gain! In truth, I know not whether he who has not made up 
his mind to endure with constancy the loss of somewhat of his, either by theft, 
or else by force, or else even by carelessness, would himself readily or 
heartily lay hand on his own property in the cause of almsgiving: for who that 
endures not at all to be cut by another, himself draws the sword on his own 
body? Patience in losses is an exercise in bestowing and communicating. Who 
fears not to lose, finds it not irksome to give. Else how will one, when he has 
two coats, give the one of them to the naked, unless he be a man likewise to 
offer to one who takes away his coat his cloak as well? How shall we fashion to 
us friends from mammon, if we love it so much as not to put up with its loss? We 
shall perish together with the lost mammon. Why do we find here, where it is our 
business to lose? To exhibit impatience at all losses is the Gentiles' business, 
who give money the precedence perhaps over their soul; for so they do, when, in 
their cupidities of lucre, they encounter the gainful perils of commerce on the 
sea; when, for money's sake, even in the forum, there is nothing which damnation 
(itself) would fear which they hesitate to essay; when they hire themselves for 
sport and the camp; when, after the manner of wild beasts, they play the bandit 
along the highway. But us, according to the diversity by which we are 
distinguished from them, it becomes to lay down not our soul for money, but 
money for our soul, whether spontaneously in bestowing or patiently in losing. 
CHAP. VIII.--OF PATIENCE UNDER PERSONAL
VIOLENCE AND MALEDICTION.
We who carry about our very soul, our very body, exposed in this world to 
injury from all, and exhibit patience under that injury; shall we be hurt at the 
loss of less important things? Far from a servant of Christ be such a defilement 
as that the patience which has been prepared for greater temptations should 
forsake him in frivolous ones. If one attempt to provoke you by manual violence, 
the monition of the Lord is at hand: "To him," He saith, "who smiteth thee on 
the face, turn the other cheek likewise." Let outrageousness be wearied out by 
your patience. Whatever that blow may be, conjoined with pain and contumely, it 
shall receive a heavier one from the Lord. You wound that outrageous one more by 
enduring: for he will be beaten by Him for whose sake you endure. If the 
tongue's bitterness break out in malediction or reproach, look back at the 
saying, "When they curse you, rejoice." The Lord Himself was "cursed" in the eye 
of the law; and yet is He the only Blessed One. Let us servants, therefore, 
follow our Lord closely; and be cursed patiently, that we may be able to be 
blessed. If I hear with too little equanimity some wanton or wicked word uttered 
against me, I must of necessity either myself retaliate the bitterness, or else 
I shall be racked with mute impatience. When, then, on being cursed, I smite 
(with my tongue,) how shall I be found to have followed the doctrine of the 
Lord, in which it has been delivered that "a man is defiled, not by the 
defilements of vessels, but of the things which are sent forth out of his 
mouth." Again, it is said that "impeachment awaits us for every vain and 
needless word." It follows that, from whatever the Lord keeps us, the same He 
admonishes us to bear patiently from another. I will add (somewhat) touching the 
pleasure of patience. For every injury, whether inflicted by tongue or hand, 
when it has lighted upon patience, will be dismissed with the same fate as, some 
weapon launched against and blunted on a rock of most stedfast hardness. For it 
will wholly fall then and there with bootless and fruitless labour; and 
sometimes will recoil and spend its rage on him who sent it out, with retorted 
impetus. No doubt the reason why any one hurts you is that you may be pained; 
because the hurter's enjoyment consists in the pain of the hurt. When, then, you 
have upset his enjoyment by not being pained, he must needs he pained by the 
loss of his enjoyment. Then you not only go 713 
unhurt away, which even alone is enough for you; but gratified, into the 
bargain, by your adversary's disappointment, and revenged by his pain. This is 
the utility and the pleasure of patience. 
CHAP. IX.--OF PATIENCE UNDER BEREAVEMENT.
Not even that species of impatience under the loss of our dear ones is 
excused, where some assertion of a right to grief acts the patron to it. For the 
consideration of the apostle's declaration must be set before us, who says, "Be 
not overwhelmed with sadness at the falling asleep of any one, just as the 
nations are who are without hope." And justly; or, believing the resurrection of 
Christ we believe also in our own, for whose sake He both died and rose again. 
Since, then, there is certainty as to the resurrection of the dead, grief for 
death is needless, and impatience of grief is needless. For why should you 
grieve, if you believe that (your loved one) is not perished? Why should you 
bear impatiently the temporary withdrawal of him who you believe will return? 
That which you think to be death is departure. He who goes before us is not to 
be lamented, though by all means to be longed for. That longing also must be 
tempered with patience. For why should you bear without moderation the fact that 
one is gone away whom you will presently follow? Besides, impatience in matters 
of this kind bodes ill for our hope, and is a dealing insincerely with the 
faith. And we wound Christ when we accept not with equanimity the summoning out 
of this world of any by Him, as if they were to be pitied. "I desire," says the 
apostle, "to be now received, and to be with Christ." How far better a desire 
does he exhibit! If, then, we grieve impatiently over such as have attained the 
desire of Christians, we show unwillingness ourselves to attain it. 
CHAP. X.--OF REVENGE.
There is, too, another chief spur of impatience, the lust of revenge, dealing 
with the business either of glory or else of malice. But "glory," on the one 
hand, is everywhere "vain;" and malice, on the other, is always odious to the 
Lord; in this case indeed most of all, when, being provoked by a neighbour's 
malice, it constitutes itself superior in following out revenge, and by paying 
wickedness doubles that which has once been done. Revenge, in the estimation of 
error, seems a solace of pain; in the estimation of truth, on the contrary, it 
is convicted of malignity. For what difference is there between provoker and 
provoked, except that the former is detected as prior in evil-doing, but the 
latter as posterior? Yet each stands impeached of hurting a man in the eye of 
the Lord, who both prohibits and condemns every wickedness. In evil doing there 
is no account taken of order, nor does place separate what similarity conjoins. 
And the precept is absolute, that evil is not to be repaid with evil. Like deed 
involves like merit. How shall we observe that principle, if in our loathing we 
shall not loathe revenge? What honour, moreover, shall we be offering to the 
Lord God, if we arrogate to ourselves the arbitrament of vengeance? We are 
corrupt--earthen vessels. With our own servant-boys, if they assume to 
themselves the right of vengeance on their fellow-servants, we are gravely 
offended; while such as make us the offering of their patience we not only 
approve as mindful of humility, of servitude, affectionately jealous of the 
right of their lord's honour; but we make them an ampler satisfaction than they 
would have pre-exacted for themselves. Is there any risk of a different result 
in the case of a Lord so just in estimating, so potent in executing? Why, then, 
do we believe Him a Judge, if not an Avenger too? This He promises that He will 
be to us in return, saying, "Vengeance belongeth to me, and I will avenge; " 
that is, Leave patience to me, and I will reward patience. For when He says, 
"Judge not, lest ye be judged," does He not require patience? For who will 
refrain from judging another, but he who shall be patient in not revenging 
himself? Who judges in order to pardon? And if he shall pardon, still he has 
taken care to indulge the impatience of a judger, and has taken away the honour 
of the one Judge, that is, God. How many mischances had impatience of this kind 
been wont to run into! How oft has it repented of its revenge! How oft has its 
vehemence been found worse than the causes which led to it!--inasmuch as nothing 
undertaken with impatience can be effected without impetuosity: nothing done 
with impetuosity fails either to stumble, or else to fall altogether, 714 
or else to vanish headlong. Moreover, if you avenge yourself too slightly, 
you will be mad; if too amply, you will have to bear the burden. What have I to 
do with vengeance, the measure of which, through impatience of pain, I am unable 
to regulate? Whereas, if I shall repose on patience, I shall not feel pain; if I 
shall not feel pain, I shall not desire to avenge myself. 
CHAP. XI.--FURTHER REASONS FOR PRACTISING PATIENCE. ITS CONNECTION WITH 
THE BEATITUDES.
After these principal material causes of impatience, registered to the best 
of our ability, why should we wander out of our way among the rest,--what are 
found at home, what abroad? Wide and diffusive is the Evil One's operation, 
hurling manifold irritations of our spirit, and sometimes trifling ones, 
sometimes very great. But the trifling ones you may contemn from their very 
littleness; to the very great ones you may yield in regard of their 
overpoweringness. Where the injury is less, there is no necessity for 
impatience; but where the injury is greater, there more necessary is the remedy 
for the injury--patience. Let us strive, therefore, to endure the inflictions of 
the Evil One, that the counter-zeal of our equanimity may mock the zeal of the 
foe. If, however, we ourselves, either by imprudence or else voluntarily, draw 
upon ourselves anything, let us meet with equal patience what we have to blame 
ourselves for. Moreover, if we believe that some inflictions are sent on us by 
the Lord, to whom should we more exhibit patience than to the Lord? Nay, He 
teaches us to give thanks and rejoice, over and above, at being thought worthy 
of divine chastisement. "Whom I love," saith He, "I chasten." O blessed servant, 
on whose amendment the Lord is intent! with whom He deigns to be wroth! whom He 
does not deceive by dissembling His reproofs! On every side, therefore, we are 
bound to the duty of exercising patience, from whatever quarter, either by our 
own errors or else by the snares of the Evil One, we incur the Lord's reproofs. 
Of that duty great is the reward--namely, happiness. For whom but the patient 
has the Lord called happy, in saying, "Blessed are the poor in spirit, for 
theirs is the kingdom of the heavens?" No one, assuredly, is "poor in spirit," 
except he be humble. Well, who is humble, except he be patient? For no one can 
abase himself without patience, in the first instance, to bear the act of 
abasement. "Blessed," saith He, "are the weepers and mourners." Who, without 
patience, is tolerant of such unhappinesses? And so to such, "consolation" and 
"laughter" are promised. "Blessed are the gentle:" under this term, surely, the 
impatient cannot possibly be classed. Again, when He marks "the peacemakers" 
with the same title of felicity, and names them "sons of God," pray have the 
impatient any affinity with "peace?" Even a fool may perceive that. When, 
however, He says, "Rejoice and exult, as often as they shall curse and persecute 
you; for very great is your reward in heaven," of course it is not to the 
patience of exultation that He makes that promise; because no one will "exult" 
in adversities unless he have first learnt to contemn them; no one will contemn 
them unless he have learnt to practise patience. 
CHAP. XII.--CERTAIN OTHER DIVINE PRECEPTS. THE APOSTOLIC DESCRIPTION OF 
CHARITY. THEIR CONNECTION WITH PATIENCE.
As regards the rule of peace, which is so pleasing to God, who in the world 
that is prone to impatience will even once forgive his brother, I will not say 
"seven times," or "seventy-seven times?" Who that is contemplating a suit 
against his adversary will compose the matter by agreement, unless he first 
begin by lopping off chagrin, hardheartedness, and bitterness, which are in fact 
the poisonous outgrowths of impatience? How will you "remit, and remission shall 
be granted" you? if the absence of patience makes you tenacious of a wrong? No 
one who is at variance with his brother in his mind, will finish offering his 
"duteous gift at the altar," unless he first, with intent to "re-conciliate his 
brother," return to patience. If "the sun go down over our wrath," we are in 
jeopardy: we are not allowed to remain one day without patience. But, however, 
since Patience takes the lead in every species of salutary discipline, what 715 
wonder that she likewise ministers to Repentance, (accustomed as Repentance 
is to come to the rescue of such as have fallen,) when, on a disjunction of 
wedlock (for that cause, I mean, which makes it lawful, whether for husband or 
wife, to persist in the perpetual observance of widowhood), she waits for, she 
yearns for, she persuades by her entreaties, repentance in all who are one day 
to enter salvation? How great a blessing she confers on each! 
The one she prevents from becoming an adulterer; the other she amends. So, 
to, she is found in those holy examples touching patience in the Lord's 
parables. 
The shepherd's patience seeks and finds the straying ewe: for Impatience 
would easily despise one ewe; but Patience undertakes the labour of the quest, 
and the patient burden-bearer carries home on his shoulders the forsaken sinner. 
That prodigal son also the father's patience receives, and clothes, and feeds, 
and makes excuses for, in the presence of the angry brother's impatience. He, 
therefore, who "had perished" is saved, because he entered on the way of 
repentance. Repentance perishes not, because it finds Patience (to welcome it). 
For by whose teachings but those of Patience is Charity--the highest sacrament 
of the faith, the treasure-house of the Christian name, which the apostle 
commends with the whole strength of the Holy Spirit--trained? "Charity," he 
says, "is long suffering;" thus she applies patience: "is beneficent;" Patience 
does no evil: "is not emulous;" that certainly is a peculiar mark of patience: 
"savours not of violence:" she has drawn her self-restraint from patience: "is 
not puffed up; is not violent;" for that pertains not unto patience: "nor does 
she seek her own" 
if, she offers her own, provided she may benefit her neighbours: "nor is 
irritable;" if she were, what would she have left to Impatience? Accordingly he 
says, "Charity endures all things; tolerates all things;" of course because she 
is patient. Justly, then, "will she never fail;" for all other things will be 
cancelled, will have their consummation. "Tongues, sciences, prophecies, become 
exhausted; faith, hope, charity, are permanent:" Faith, which Christ's patience 
introduced; hope, which man's patience waits for; charity, which Patience 
accompanies, with God as Master. 
CHAP. XIII.--OF BODILY PATIENCE.
Thus far, finally, of patience simple and uniform, and as it exists merely in 
the mind: though in many forms likewise I labour after it in body, for the 
purpose of "winning the Lord;" inasmuch as it is a quality which has been 
exhibited by the Lord Himself in bodily virtue as well; if it is true that the 
ruling mind easily communicates the gifts" of the Spirit with its bodily 
habitation. What, therefore, is the business of Patience in the body? In the 
first place, it is the affliction of the flesh--a victim able to appease the 
Lord by means of the sacrifice of humiliation--in making a libation to the Lord 
of sordid raiment, together with scantiness of food, content with simple diet 
and the pure drink of water in con joining fasts to all this; in inuring herself 
to sackcloth and ashes. This bodily patience adds a grace to our prayers for 
good, a strength to our prayers against evil; this opens the ears of Christ our 
God, dissipates severity, elicits clemency. Thus that Babylonish king, after 
being exiled from human form in his seven years' squalor and neglect., because 
he had offended the Lord; by the bodily immolation of patience not only 
recovered his kingdom, but--what is more to be desired by a man--made 
satisfaction to God. Further, if we set down in order the higher and happier 
grades of bodily patience, (we find that)it is she who is entrusted by holiness 
with the care of continence of the flesh: she keeps the widow, and sets on the 
virgin the seal and raises the self-made eunuch to the realms of heaven. That 
which springs from a virtue of the mind is perfected in the flesh; and, finally, 
by the patience of the flesh, does battle under persecution. If flight press 
hard, the flesh wars with the inconvenience of flight; if imprisonment over 716 
take us, the flesh (still was) in bonds, the flesh in the gyve, the flesh in 
solitude, and in that want of light, and in that patience of the world's 
misusage. When, however, it is led forth unto the final proof of happiness, unto 
the occasion of the second baptism, unto the act of ascending the divine seat, 
no patience is more needed there than badly patience. If the "spirit is willing, 
but the flesh," without patience, "weak," where, save in patience, is the safety 
of the spirit, and of the flesh itself? But when the Lord says this about the 
flesh, pronouncing it "weak," He shows what need there is of strengthening, 
it--that is by patience--to meet every preparation for subverting or punishing 
faith; that it may bear with all constancy stripes, fire, cross, beasts, sword; 
all which prophets and apostles, by enduring, conquered! 
CHAP. XIV.--THE POWER OF THIS TWOFOLD PATIENCE, THE SPIRITUAL AND THE 
BODILY.
EXEMPLIFIED IN THE SAINTS OF OLD.
With this strength of patience, Esaias is cut asunder, and ceases not to 
speak concerning the Lord; Stephen is stoned, and prays for pardon to his foes. 
Oh, happy also he who met all the violence of the devil by the exertion of every 
species of patience!--whom neither the driving away of his cattle nor those 
riches of his in sheep, nor the sweeping away of his children in one swoop of 
ruin, nor, finally, the agony of his own body in (one universal) wound, 
estranged from the patience and the faith which he had plighted to the Lord; 
whom the devil smote with all his might in vain. For by all his pains he was not 
drawn away from his reverence for God; but he has been set up as an example and 
testimony to us, for the thorough accomplishment of patience as well in spirit 
as in flesh, as well in mind as in body; in order that we succumb neither to 
damages of our worldly goods, nor to losses of those who are dearest, nor even 
to bodily afflictions. What a bier for the devil did God erect in the person of 
that hero! What a banner did He rear over the enemy of His glory, when, at every 
bitter message, that man uttered nothing out of his mouth but thanks to God, 
while he denounced his wife, now quite wearied with ills, and urging him to 
resort to crooked remedies! How did God smile, how was the evil one cut asunder, 
while Job with mighty equanimity kept scraping off the unclean overflow of his 
own ulcer, while he sportively replaced the vermin that brake out thence, in the 
same caves and feeding-places of his pitted flesh! And so, when all the darts of 
temptations had blunted themselves against the corslet and shield of his 
patience, that instrument of God's victory not only presently recovered from God 
the soundness of his body, but possessed in redoubled measure what he had lost. 
And if he had wished to have his children also restored, he might again have 
been called father; but he preferred to have them restored him "in that day." 
Such joy as that --secure so entirely concerning the Lord--he deferred; meantime 
he endured a voluntary bereavement, that he might not live without some 
(exercise of) patience. 
CHAP. XV.--GENERAL SUMMARY OF THE VIRTUES
AND EFFECTS OF PATIENCE.
So amply sufficient a Depositary of patience is God. If it be a wrong which 
you deposit in His care, He is an Avenger; if a loss, He is a Restorer; if pain, 
He is a Healer; if death, He is a Reviver. What honour is granted to Patience, 
to have God as her Debtor! And not without reason: for she keeps all His 
decrees; she has to do with all His mandates. She fortifies faith; is the pilot 
of peace; assists charity; establishes humility; waits long for repentance; sets 
tier seal on confession; rules the flesh; preserves the spirit; bridles the 
tongue; restrains the hand; tramples temptations under foot; drives away 
scandals; gives their crowning grace to martyrdoms; consoles the poor; teaches 
the rich moderation; overstrains not the weak; exhausts not the strong; is the 
delight of the believer; invites the Gentile; commends the servant to his lord, 
and his lord to God; adorns the woman; makes the man approved; is loved in 
childhood, praised in youth, looked up to in age; is beauteous in either sex, in 
every time of life. Come, now, see whether we have a general idea of her mien 
and habit. Her countenance is tranquil and peaceful; her brow serene contracted 
by no wrinkle of sadness or of anger; her eyebrows evenly relaxed 717 
in gladsome wise, with eyes downcast in humility, not in unhappiness; her 
mouth sealed with the honourable mark of silence; her hue such as theirs who are 
without care and without guilt; the motion of her head frequent against the 
devil, and her laugh threatening; her clothing, moreover, about her bosom white 
and well fitted to her person, as being neither inflated nor disturbed. For 
Patience sits on the throne of that calmest and gentlest Spirit, who is not 
found in the roll of the whirlwind, nor in the leaden hue of the cloud but is of 
soft serenity, open and simple, whom Elias saw at his third essay. For where God 
is, there too is His foster-child, namely Patience. When God's Spirit descends, 
then Patience accompanies Him indivisibly. If we do not give admission to her 
together with the Spirit, will always tarry with us? Nay, I know not whether He 
would remain any longer. Without His companion and handmaid, He must of 
necessity be straitened in every place and at every time. Whatever blow His 
enemy may inflict He will be unable to endure alone, being without the 
instrumental means of enduring. 
CHAP. XVI.--THE PATIENCE OF THE HEATHEN VERY DIFFERENT FROM CHRISTIAN 
PATIENCE. THEIRS DOOMED TO PERDITION. OURS DESTINED TO SALVATION.
This is the rule, this the discipline, these the works of patience which is 
heavenly and true; that is, of Christian patience, not false and disgraceful, 
like as is that patience of the nations of the earth. For in order that in this 
also the devil might rival the Lord, he has as it were quite on a par (except 
that the very diversity of evil and good is exactly on a par with their 
magnitude) taught his disciples also a patience of his own; that, I mean, which, 
making husbands venal for dowry, and teaching them to trade in panderings, makes 
them subject to the power of their wives; which, with feigned affection, 
undergoes. every toil of forced complaisance, with a view to ensnaring the 
childless; which makes the slaves of the belly submit to contumelious patronage, 
in the subjection of their liberty to their gullet. Such pursuits of patience 
the Gentiles are acquainted with; and they eagerly seize a name of so great 
goodness to apply it to foul practises: patient they live of rivals, and of the 
rich, and of such as give them invitations; impatient of God alone. But let 
their own and their leader's patience look to itself--a patience which the 
subterraneous fire awaits! Let us, on the other hand, love the patience of God, 
the patience of Christ; let us repay to Him the patience which He has paid down 
for us! Let us offer to Him the patience of the spirit, the patience of the 
flesh, believing as we do in the resurrection of flesh and spirit. 

