
Tertullian












TERTULLIAN

ON IDOLATRY.
 [TRANSLATED BY THE REV. S. THELWALL.]
CHAP. I.--WIDE SCOPE OF THE WORD IDOLATRY.
The principal crime of the human race, the highest guilt charged 
 upon the world, the whole procuring cause of judgment, is idolatry. 
 For, although each single fault retains its own proper feature, 
 although it is destined to judgment under its own proper name also, 
 yet it is marked off under the general account of idolatry. Set 
 aside names, examine works, the idolater is likewise a murderer. Do 
 you inquire whom he has slain? If it contributes ought to the 
 aggravation of the indictment, no stranger nor personal enemy, but 
 his own self. By what snares? Those of his error. By what weapon? 
 The offence done to God. By how many blows? As many as are his 
 idolatries. He who affirms that the idolater perishes not, will 
 affirm that the idolater has not committed murder. Further, you may 
 recognize in the same crime adultery and fornication; for he who 
 serves false gods is doubtless an adulterer of truth, because all 
 falsehood is adultery. So, too, he is sunk in fornication. For who 
 that is a fellow-worker with unclean spirits, does not stalk in 
 general pollution and fornication? And thus it is that the Holy 
 Scriptures use the designation of fornication in their upbraiding of 
 idolatry. The essence of fraud, I take it, is, that any should seize 
 what is another's, or refuse to another his due; and, of course, 
 fraud done toward matt is a name of greatest crime. Well, but 
 idolatry does fraud to God, by refusing to Him, and conferring on 
 others, His honours; so that to fraud it also conjoins contumely. 
 But if fraud, just as much as fornication and adultery, entails 
 death, then, in these cases, equally with the former, idolatry 
 stands unacquitted of the impeachment of murder. After such crimes, 
 so pernicious, so devouring of salvation, all other crimes also, 
 after some manner, and separately disposed in order, find their own 
 essence represented in idolatry. In it also are the cancupiscences 
 of the world. For what solemnity of idolatry is without the 
 circumstance of dress and ornament? In it are lasciviousnesses and 
 drunkennesses; since it is, for the most part, for the sake of food, 
 and stomach, and appetite, that these solemnities are frequented. In 
 it is unrighteousness. For what more unrighteous than it, which 
 knows not the Father of righteousness? In it also is vanity, since 
 its whole system is vain. In it is mendacity, for its whole 
 substance is false. Thus it comes to pass, that in idolatry all 
 crimes are detected, and in all crimes idolatry. Even otherwise, 
 since all faults savour of opposition to God, and there is nothing 
 which savours of opposition to God which is not assigned to demons 
 and unclean spirits, whose property idols are; doubtless, whoever 
 commits a fault is chargeable with idolatry, for he does that which 
 pertains to the proprietors of idols. 
 
CHAP. II.--IDOLATRY IN ITS MORE LIMITED SENSE. ITS COPIOUSNESS.
But let the universal names of crimes withdraw to the 
 specialities of their own works; let idolatry remain in that which 
 it is itself. Sufficient to itself is a name so inimical to God, a 
 substance of crime so copious, which
reaches forth so many branches, diffuses so many veins, that from 
 this name, for the greatest part, is drawn the material of all the 
 modes in which the expansiveness of idolatry has to be foreguarded 
 against by us, since in manifold wise it subverts the servants of 
 God; and this not only when unperceived, but also when cloaked over. 
 Most men simply regard idolatry as to be interpreted in these senses 
 alone, viz.: if one burn incense, or immolate a victim, or give a 
 sacrificial banquet, or be bound to some sacred functions or 
 priesthoods; just as if one were to regard adultery as to be 
 accounted in kisses, and in embraces, and in actual fleshly contact; 
 or murder as to be reckoned only in the shedding forth of blood, and 
 in the actual taking away of life. But how far wider an extent the 
 Lord assigns to those crimes we are sure: when He defines adultery 
 to consist even in concupiscence, "if one shall have cast an eye 
 lustfully on," and stirred his soul with immodest commotion; when He 
 judges murder to consist even in a word of curse or of reproach, and 
 in every impulse of anger, and in the neglect of charity toward a 
 brother just as John teaches, that he who hates his brother is a 
 murderer. Else, both the devil's ingenuity in malice, and God the 
 Lord's in the Discipline by which He fortifies us against the 
 devil's depths, would have but limited scope, if we were judged only 
 in such faults as even the heathen nations have decreed punishable. 
 How will our "righteousness abound above that of the Scribes and 
 Pharisees," as the Lord has prescribed, unless we shall have seen 
 through the abundance of that adversary quality, that is, of 
 unrighteousness? But if the head of unrighteousness is idolatry, the 
 first point is, that we be fore-fortified against the abundance of 
 idolatry, while we recognise it not only in its palpable 
 manifestations. 
 
CHAP. III.--IDOLATRY: ORIGIN AND MEANING OF THE NAME.
Idol in ancient times there was none. Before the artificers of 
 this monstrosity had bubbled into being, temples stood solitary and 
 shrines empty, just as to the present day in some places traces of 
 the ancient practice remain permanently. Yet idolatry used to be 
 practised, not under that name, but in that function; for even at 
 this day it can be practised outside a temple, and without an idol. 
 But when the devil introduced into the world artificers of statues 
 and of images, and of every kind of likenesses, that former rude 
 business of human disaster attained from idols both a name and a 
 development. Thenceforward every art which in any way produces an 
 idol instantly became a fount of idolatry. For it makes no 
 difference whether a moulder cast, or a carver grave, or an 
 embroiderer weave the idol; because neither is it a question of 
 material, whether an idol be formed of gypsum, or of colors, or of 
 stone, or of bronze, or of silver, or of thread. For since even 
 without an idol idolatry is committed, when the idol is there it 
 makes no difference of what kind it be, of what material, or what 
 shape; lest any should think that only to be held an idol which is 
 consecrated in human shape. 
 
To establish this point, the interpretation of the word is 
 requisite. Eidos, in Greek, signifies form; eidolon, derived 
 diminutively from that, by an equivalent process in our language, 
 makes formling. Every form or forming, therefore, claims to be 
 called an idol. Hence idolatry is "all attendance and service about 
 every idol." Hence also, every artificer of an idol is guilty of one 
 and the same crime, unless, the People which consecrated for itself 
 the likeness of a calf, and not of a man, fell short of incurring 
 the guilt of idolatry. 
 
CHAP. IV.--IDOLS NOT TO BE MADE, MUCH LESS WORSHIPPED. 
 IDOLS AND IDOLMAKERS IN THE SAME CATEGORY.
God prohibits an idol as much to be made as to be worshipped. In 
 so far as the making what may be worshipped is the prior act, so far 
 is the prohibition to make (if the worship is unlawful) the prior 
 prohibition. For this cause--the eradicating, namely, of the 
 material of idolatry--the divine law proclaims, "Thou shall make no 
 idol;" and by conjoining, "Nor a similitude of the things which are 
 in the heaven, and which are in the earth, and which are in the 
 sea," has interdicted the servants of God from acts of that kind all 
 the universe over. Enoch had preceded, predicting that "the demons, 
 and the spirits of the angelic apostates, would turn into idolatry all the elements, all the garniture of the universe, all 
 things contained in the heaven, in the sea, in the earth, that they 
 might be consecrated as God, in opposition to God." All things, 
 therefore, does human error worship, except the Founder of all 
 Himself. The images of those things are idols; the consecration of 
 the images is idolatry. Whatever guilt idolatry incurs, must 
 necessarily be imputed to every artificer of every idol. In short, 
 the same Enoch fore-condemns in general menace both idol-worshippers 
 and idol-makers together. And again: "I swear to you, sinners, that 
 against the day of perdition of blood repentance is being prepared. 
 Ye who serve stones, and ye who make images of gold, and silver, and 
 wood, and stones and clay, and serve phantoms, and demons, and 
 spirits in fanes, and all errors not according to knowledge, shall 
 find no help from them." But Isaiah says, "Ye are witnesses whether 
 there is a God except Me." "And they who mould and carve out at that 
 time were not: all vain! who do that which liketh them, which shall 
 not profit them!" And that whole ensuing discourse sets a ban as 
 well on the artificers as the worshippers: the close of which is, 
 "Learn that their heart is ashes and earth, and that none can free 
 his own soul." In which sentence David equally includes the makers 
 too. "Such," says he, "let them become who make them." And why 
 should I, a man of limited memory, suggest anything further? Why 
 recall anything more from the Scriptures? As if either the voice of 
 the Holy Spirit were not sufficient; or else any further 
 deliberation were needful, whether the Lord cursed and condemned by 
 priority the artIfi-cers of those things, of which He curses and 
 condemns the worshippers! 
 
CHAP. V.--SUNDRY OBJECTIONS OR EXCUSES DEALT WITH.
We will certainly take more pains in answering the excuses of 
 artificers of this kind, who ought never to be admitted into the 
 house of God, if any have a knowledge of that Discipline. To begin 
 with, that speech, wont to be cast in our teeth, "I have nothing 
 else whereby to live," may be more severely retorted, "You have, 
 then, whereby to live? If by your own laws, what have you to do with 
 God?" Then, as to the argument they have the hardihood to bring even 
 from the Scriptures, "that the apostle has said, 'As each has been 
 found, so let him persevere.'" We may all, therefore, persevere in 
 sins, as the result of that interpretation! for there is not any one 
 of us who has not been found as a sinner, since no other cause was 
 the source of Christ's descent than that of setting sinners free. 
 Again, they say the same apostle has left a precept, according to 
 his own example, "That each one work with his own hands for a 
 living." If this precept is maintained in respect to all hands, I 
 believe even the bath-thieves live by their hands, and robbers 
 themselves gain the means to live by their hands; forgers, again, 
 execute their evil handwritings, not of course with their feet, but 
 hands; actors, however, achieve a livelihood not with hands alone, 
 but with their entire limbs. Let the Church, therefore, stand open 
 to all who are supported by their hands and by their own work; if 
 there is no exception of arts which the Discipline of God receives 
 not. But some one says, in opposition to our proposition of 
 "similitude being interdicted," "Why, then, did Moses in the desert 
 make a likeness of a serpent out of bronze?" The figures, which used 
 to be laid as a groundwork for some secret future dispensation, not 
 with a view to the repeal of the law, but as a type of their own 
 final cause, stand in a class by themselves. Otherwise, if we should 
 interpret these things as the adversaries of the law do, do we, too, 
 as the Marcionites do, ascribe inconsistency to the Almighty, whom 
 they in this manner destroy as being mutable, while in one place He 
 forbids, in another commands? But if any feigns ignorance of the 
 fact that that effigy of the serpent of bronze, after the manner of 
 one uphung, denoted the shape of the Lord's cross," which

was to free us from serpents--that is, from the devil's 
 angels--while, through itself, it hanged up the devil slain; or 
 whatever other exposition of that figure has been revealed to 
 worthlet men no matter, provided we remember the apostle affirms 
 that all things happened at that time to the People figuratively. It 
 is enough that the same God, as by law He forbade the making of 
 similitude, did, by the extraordinary precept in the case of the 
 serpent, interdict similitude. If you reverence the same God, you 
 have His law, "Thou shall make no similitude." If you look back, 
 too, to the precept enjoining the subsequently made similitude, do 
 you, too, imitate Moses: make not any likeness in opposition to the 
 law, unless to you, too, God have bidden it. 
 
CHAP. VI.--IDOLATRY CONDEMNED BY BAPTISM. TO MAKE AN 
 IDOL IS, IN FACT, TO WORSHIP IT.
If no law of God had prohibited idols to be made by us; if no 
 voice of the Holy Spirit uttered general menace no less against the 
 makers than the worshippers of idols; from our sacrament itself we 
 would draw our interpretation that arts of that kind are opposed to 
 the faith. For how have we renounced the devil and his angels, if we 
 make them? What divorce have we declared from them, I say not with 
 whom, but dependent on whom, we live? What discord have we entered 
 into with those to whom we are under obligation for the sake of our 
 maintenance? Can you have denied with the tongue what with the hand 
 you confess? unmake by word what by deed you make? preach one God, 
 you who make so many? preach the true God, you who make false ones? 
 "I make," says one, "but I worship not;" as if there were some cause 
 for which he dare not worship, besides that for which he ought not 
 also to make,--the offence done to God, namely, in either case. Nay, 
 you who make, that they may be able to be worshipped, do worship; 
 and you worship, not with the spirit of some worthless perfume, but 
 with your own; nor at the expense of a beast's soul, but of your 
 own. To them you immolate your ingenuity; to them you make your 
 sweat a libation; to them you kindle the torch of your forethought. 
 More are you to them than a priest, since it is by your means they 
 have a priest; your diligence is their divinity. Do you affirm that 
 you worship not what you make? Ah! but they affirm not so, to whom 
 you slay this fatter, more precious and greater victim, your 
 salvation. 
 
CHAP. VII.---GRIEF OF THE FAITHFUL AT THE ADMISSION OF 
 IDOL-MAKERS INTO THE CHURCH; NAY, EVEN INTO THE MINISTRY.
A whole day the zeal of faith will direct its pleadings to this 
 quarter: bewailing that a Christian should come from idols into the 
 Church; should come from an adversary workshop into the house of 
 God; should raise to God the Father hands which are the mothers of 
 idols; should pray to God with the hands which, out of doors, are 
 prayed to in opposition to God; should apply to the Lord's body 
 those hands which confer bodies on demons. Nor is this sufficient. 
 Grant that it be a small matter, if from other hands they receive 
 what they contaminate; but even those very hands deliver to others 
 what they have contaminated. Idol-artificers are chosen even into 
 the ecclesiastical order. Oh wickedness! Once did the Jews lay 
 brands on Christ; these mangle His body daily. Oh hands to be cut 
 off! Now let the saying, "If thy hand make thee do evil, amputate 
 it," see to it whether it were uttered by way of similitude merely. 
 What hands more to be amputated than those in which scandal is done 
 to the Lord's body? 
 
CHAP. VIII.--OTHER ARTS MADE SUBSERVIENT TO IDOLATRY. 
 LAWFUL MEANS OF GAINING A LIVELIHOOD ABUNDANT.
There are also other species of very many arts which, although 
 they extend not to the making of idols, yet, with the same 
 criminality, furnish the adjuncts without which idols have no power. 
 For it matters not whether you erect or equip: if you have 
 embellished his temple, altar, or niche; if you have pressed out 
 gold-leaf, or have wrought his insignia, or even his house: 
 work of that kind, which confers not shape, but authority, is 
 more important. 
 
If the necessity of maintenance is urged so much, the arts have other species withal to 
 afford means of livelihood, without outstepping the path of 
 discipline, that is, without the confiction of an idol. The 
 plasterer knows both how to mend roofs, and lay on stuccoes, and 
 polish a cistern, and trace ogives, and draw in relief on 
 party-walls many other ornaments beside likenesses. The painter, 
 too, the marble mason, the bronze-worker, and every graver whatever, 
 knows expansions of his own art, of course much easier of execution. 
 For how much more easily does he who delineates a statue overlay a 
 sideboard! How much sooner does he who carves a Mars out of a 
 lime-tree, fasten together a chest! No art but is either mother or 
 kinswoman of some neighbour art: nothing is independent of its 
 neighbour. The veins of the arts are many as are the concupiscences 
 of men. "But there is difference in wages and the rewards of 
 handicraft;" therefore there is difference, too, in the labour 
 required. Smaller wages are compensated by more frequent earning. 
 How many are the party-walls which require statues? How many the 
 temples and shrines which are built for idols? But houses, and 
 official residences, and baths, and tenements, how many are they? 
 Shoe- and slipper-gilding is daily work not so the gilding of 
 Mercury and Serapis. Let that suffice for the gain of handicrafts. 
 Luxury and ostentation have more votaries than all superstition. 
 Ostentation will require dishes and cups more easily than 
 superstition. Luxury deals in wreaths, also, more than ceremony. 
 When, therefore, we urge men generally to such kinds of handicrafts 
 as do not come in contact with an idol indeed and with the things 
 which are appropriate to an idol; since, moreover, the things which 
 are common to idols are often common to men too; of this also we 
 ought to beware that nothing be, with our knowledge, demanded by any 
 person from our idols' service. For if we shall have made that 
 concession, and shall not have had recourse to the remedies so often 
 used, I think we are not free of the contagion of idolatry, we whose 
 (not unwitting) hands are found busied in the tendence, or in the 
 honour and service, of demons. 
 
CHAP. IX.--PROFESSIONS OF SOME KINDS ALLIED TO
IDOLATRY. OF ASTROLOGY IN PARTICULAR.
We observe among the arts also some professions liable to the 
 charge of idolatry. Of astrologers there should be no speaking even; 
 but since one in these days has challenged us, defending on his own 
 behalf perseverance in that profession, I will use a few words. I 
 allege not that he honours idols, whose names he has inscribed on 
 the heaven, to whom he has attributed all God's power; because men, 
 presuming that we are disposed of by the immutable arbitrament of 
 the stars, think on that account that God is not to be sought after. 
 One proposition I lay down: that those angels, the deserters from 
 God, the lovers of women, were likewise the discoverers of this 
 curious art, on that account also condemned by God. Oh divine 
 sentence, reaching even unto the earth in its vigour, whereto the 
 unwitting render testimony! The astrologers are expelled just like 
 their angels. The city and Italy are interdicted to the astrologers, 
 just as heaven to their angels. There is the same penalty of 
 exclusion for disciples and masters. "But Magi and astrologers came 
 from the east." We know the mutual alliance of magic and astrology. 
 The interpreters of the stars, then, were the first to announce 
 Christ's birth the first to present Him "gifts." By this bond, 
 [must] I imagine, they put Christ under obligation to themselves? 
 What then? Shall therefore the religion of those Magi act as patron 
 now also to astrologers? Astrology now-a-days, forsooth, treats of 
 Christ--is the science of the stars of Christ; not of Saturn, or 
 Mars, and whomsoever else out of the same class of the dead it pays 
 observance to and preaches? But, however, that science has been 
 allowed until the Gospel, in order that after Christ's birth no one 
 should thenceforward interpret any one's nativity by the heaven. For 
 they therefore offered to the then infant Lord that frankincense and 
 myrrh and gold, to be, as it were, the close of worldly sacrifice 
 and glory, which Christ was

about to do away. What, then? The dream--sent, doubtless, of the 
 will of God--suggested to the same Magi, namely, that they should go 
 home, but by another way, not that by which they came. It means 
 this: that they should not walk in their ancient path. Not that 
 Herod should not pursue them, who in fact did not pursue them; 
 unwitting even that they had departed by another way, since be was 
 withal unwitting by what way they came. Just so we ought to 
 understand by it the right Way and Discipline. And so the precept 
 was rather, that thenceforward they should walk otherwise. So, too, 
 that other species of magic which operates by miracles, emulous even 
 in opposition to Moses, tried God's patience until the Gospel. For 
 thenceforward Simon Magus, just turned believer, (since he was still 
 thinking somewhat of his juggling sect; to wit, that among the 
 miracles of his profession he might buy even the gift of the Holy 
 Spirit through imposition of hands) was cursed by the apostles, and 
 ejected from the faith. Both he and that other magician, who was 
 with Sergius Paulus, (since he began opposing himself to the same 
 apostles) was mulcted with loss of eyes. The same fate, I believe, 
 would astrologers, too, have met, if any had fallen in the way of 
 the apostles. But yet, when magic is punished, of which astrology is 
 a species, of course the species is condemned in the genus. After 
 the Gospel, you will nowhere find either sophists, Chaldeans, 
 enchanters, diviners, or magicians, except as clearly punished. 
 "Where is the wise, where the grammarian, where the disputer of this 
 age? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this age?" You know 
 nothing, astrologer, if you know not that you should be a Christian. 
 If you did know it, you ought to have known this also, that you 
 should have nothing more to do with that profession of yours which, 
 of itself, fore-chants the climacterics of others, and might 
 instruct you of its own danger. There is no part nor lot for you in 
 that system of yours. He cannot hope for the kingdom of the heavens, 
 whose finger or wand abuses the heaven. 
 
CHAP. X.--OF SCHOOLMASTERS AND THEIR DIFFICULTIES.
Moreover, we must inquire likewise touching schoolmasters; nor 
 only of them, but also all other professors of literature. Nay, on 
 the contrary, we must not doubt that they are in affinity with 
 manifold idolatry: first, in that it is necessary for them to preach 
 the gods of the nations, to express their names, genealogies, 
 honourable distinctions, all and singular; and further, to observe 
 the solemnities and festivals of the same, as of them by whose means 
 they compute their revenues. What schoolmaster, without a table of 
 the seven idols, will yet frequent the Quinquatria? The very first 
 payment of every pupil he consecrates both to the honour and to the 
 name of Minerva; so that, even though he be not said "to eat of that 
 which is sacrificed to idols" nominally (not being dedicated to any 
 particular idol), he is shunned as an idolater. What less of 
 defilement does he recur on that ground, than a business brings 
 which, both nominally and virtually, is consecrated publicly to an 
 idol? The Minervalia are as much Minerva's, as the Saturnalia 
 Saturn's; Saturn's, which must necessarily be celebrated even by 
 little slaves at the time of the Saturnalia. New-year's gifts 
 likewise must be caught at, and the Septimontium kept; and all the 
 presents of Midwinter and the feast of Dear Kinsmanship must be 
 exacted; the schools must be wreathed with flowers; the flamens' 
 wives and the aediles sacrifice; the school is honoured on the 
 appointed holy-days. The same thing takes place on an idol's 
 birthday; every pomp of the devil is frequented. Who will think that 
 these things are befitting to a Christian master, unless it be he 
 who shall think them suitable likewise to one who is not a master? 
 We know it may be said, "If teaching literature is not lawful to 
 God's servants, neither will learning be likewise;" and, "How could 
 one be trained unto ordinary human intelligence, or unto any sense 
 or action whatever, since literature is the means of training for 
 all life? How do we repudiate secular studies, without which divine 
 studies cannot be pursued?" Let us see, then, the necessity of 
 literary erudition; let us reflect that partly it cannot be 
 admitted, partly cannot be avoided. Learning literature is allowable 
 for believers, rather than teaching; for the principle of learning 
 and of teaching is different. If a believer teach literature, while 
 he is teaching doubtless he commends, while he delivers he affirms, 
 while he recalls he bears testimony to, the praises of idols 
 interspersed

therein. He seals the gods themselves with this name; whereas the 
 Law, as we have said, prohibits "the names of gods to be 
 pronounced," and this names to be conferred on vanity. Hence the 
 devil gets men's early faith built up from the beginnings of their 
 erudition. Inquire whether he who catechizes about idols commit 
 idolatry. But when a believer learns these things, if he is already 
 capable of understanding what idolatry is, he neither receives nor 
 allows them; much more if he is not yet capable. Or, when he begins 
 to understand, it behoves him first to understand what he has 
 previously learned, that is, touching God and the faith. Therefore 
 he will reject those things, and will not receive them; and will be 
 as safe as one who from one who knows it not, knowingly accepts 
 poison, but does not drink it. To him necessity is attributed as an 
 excuse, because he has no other way to learn. Moreover, the not 
 teaching literature is as much easier than the not learning, as it 
 is easier, too, for the pupil not to attend, than for the master not 
 to frequent, the rest of the defilements incident to the schools 
 from public and scholastic solemnities. 
 
CHAP. XI.--CONNECTION BETWEEN COVETOUSNESS AND 
 IDOLATRY. CERTAIN TRADES, HOWEVER GAINFUL, TO BE AVOIDED.
If we think over the rest of faults, tracing them from their 
 generations, let us begin with covetousness, "a root of all evils," 
 wherewith, indeed, some having been ensnared, "have suffered 
 shipwreck about faith." Albeit covetousness is by the same apostle 
 called idolatry. In the next place proceeding to mendacity, the 
 minister of covetousness (of false swearing I am silent, since even 
 swearing is not lawful)--is trade adapted for a servant of God? But, 
 covetousness apart, what is the motive for acquiring? When the 
 motive for acquiring ceases, there will be no necessity for trading. 
 Grant now that there be some righteousness in business, secure from 
 the duty of watchfulness against covetousness and mendacity; I take 
 it that that trade which pertains to the very soul and spirit of 
 idols, which pampers every demon, falls under the charge of 
 idolatry. Rather, is not that the principal idolatry? If the 
 selfsame merchandises--frankincense, I mean, and all other foreign 
 productions--used as sacrifice to idols, are of use likewise to men 
 for medicinal ointments, to us Christians also, over and above, for 
 solaces of sepulture, let them see to it. At all events, while the 
 pomps, while the priesthoods, while the sacrifices of idols, are 
 furnished by dangers, by losses, by inconveniences, by cogitations, 
 by runnings to and fro, or trades, what else are you demonstrated to 
 be but an idols' agent? Let none contend that, in this way, 
 exception may be taken to all trades. All graver faults extend the 
 sphere for diligence in watchfulness proportionably to the magnitude 
 of the danger; in order that we may withdraw not only from the 
 faults, but from the means through which they have being. For 
 although the fault be done by others, it makes no diference if it be 
 by my means. In no case ought I to be necessary to another, while he 
 is doing what to me is unlawful. Hence I ought to understand that 
 care must be taken by me, lest what I am forbidden to do be done by 
 my means. In short, in another cause of no lighter guilt I observe 
 that fore-judgment. In that I am interdicted from fornication, I 
 furnish nothing of help or connivance to others for that purpose; in 
 that I have separated my own flesh itself from stews, I 
 
acknowledge that I cannot exercise the trade of pandering, or 
 keep that kind of places for my neighbour's behoof. So, too, the 
 interdiction of murder shows me that a trainer of gladiators also is 
 excluded from the Church; nor will any one fail to be the means of 
 doing what he subministers to another to do. 
 
Behold, here is a more kindred fore-judgment: if a purveyor of 
 the public victims come over to the faith, will you permit him to 
 remain permanently in that trade? or if one who is already a 
 believer shall have undertaken that business, will you think that he 
 is to be retained in the Church? No, I take it; unless any one will 
 dissemble in the case of a frankincense-seller too. In sooth, the 
 agency of blood pertains to some, that of odours to others. If, 
 before idols were in the world, idolatry, hitherto shapeless, used 
 to be transacted by these wares; if, even now, the work of idolatry 
 is perpetrated, for the most part, without the idol, by burnings of 
 odours; the frankincense-seller is a something even more serviceable 
 even toward demons, for idolatry is more easily carried on without 
 the idol, than without the ware of the frankincense-seller. Let us 
 interrogate thoroughly

the conscience of the faith itself. With what mouth will a 
 Christian frankincense-seller, if he shall pass through temples, 
 with what mouth will he spit down upon and blow out the smoking 
 altars, for which himself has made provision? With what consistency 
 will he exorcise his own foster-children, to whom he affords his own 
 house as store-room? Indeed, if he shall have ejected a demon, let 
 him not congratulate himself on his faith, for he has not ejected an 
 enemy; he ought to have had his prayer easily granted by one whom he 
 is daily feeding. No art, then, no profession, no trade, which 
 administers either to equipping or forming idols, can be free from 
 the title of idolatry; unless we interpret idolatry to be altogether 
 something else than the service of idol-tendence. 
 
CHAP. XII.--FURTHER ANSWERS TO THE PLEA,
HOW AM I TO LIVE?
In vain do we flatter ourselves as to the necessities of human 
 maintenance, if--after faith sealed--we say, "I have no means to 
 live?" 
 
For here I will now answer more fully that abrupt proposition. It 
 is advanced too late. For after the similitude of that most prudent 
 builder, who first computes the costs of the work, together with his 
 own means, lest, when he has begun, he afterwards blush to find 
 himself spent, deliberation should have been made before. But even 
 now you have the Lord's sayings, as examples taking away from you 
 all excuse. For what is it you say? "I shall be in need." But the 
 Lord calls the needy" happy." "I shall have no food." But "think 
 not," 
 
says He, "about food;" and as an example of clothing we have the 
 lilies. 
 
"My work was my subsistence." Nay, but "all things are to be 
 sold, and divided to the needy." "But provision must be made for 
 children and posterity." "None, putting his hand on the plough, and 
 looking back, is fit "for work. "But I was under contract." "None 
 can serve two lords." If you wish to be the Lord's disciple, it is 
 necessary you "take your cross, and follow the Lord:" your cross; 
 that is, your own straits and tortures, or your body only, which is 
 after the manner of a cross. Parents, wives, children, will have to 
 be left behind, for God's sake. Do you hesitate about arts, and 
 trades, and about professions likewise, for the sake of children and 
 parents? Even there was it demonstrated to us, that both "dear 
 pledges," and handicrafts, and trades, are to be quite left behind 
 for the Lord's sake; while James and John, called by the Lord, do 
 leave quite behind both father and ship; while Matthew is roused up 
 from the toll-booth; while even burying a father was too tardy a 
 business for faith. None of them whom the Lord chose to Him said, "I 
 have no means to live." Faith fears not famine. It knows, likewise, 
 that hunger is no less to be contemned by it for God's sake, than 
 every kind of death. It has learnt not to respect life; how much 
 more food? [You ask] "How many have fulfilled these conditions?" But 
 what with men is difficult, with God is easy. Let us, however, 
 comfort ourselves about the gentleness and clemency of God in such 
 wise, as not to indulge our "necessities" up to the point of 
 affinities with idolatry, but to avoid even from afar every breath 
 of it, as of a pestilence. [And this] not merely in the cases 
 forementioned, but in the universal series of human superstition; 
 whether appropriated to its gods, or to the defunct, or to kings, as 
 pertaining to the selfsame unclean spirits, sometimes through 
 sacrifices and priesthoods, sometimes through spectacles and the 
 like, sometimes through holy-days. 
 
CHAP. XIII.--OF THE OBSERVANCE OF DAYS CONNECTED WITH 
 IDOLATRY.
But why speak of sacrifices and priesthoods? Of spectacles, 
 moreover, and pleasures of that kind, we have already filled a 
 volume of their own. In this place must be handled the subject of 
 holidays and other extraordinary solemnities, which we accord 
 sometimes to our wantonness, sometimes to our timidity, in 
 opposition to the common faith and Discipline. The first point, 
 indeed, on which I shall join issue is this: whether a servant of 
 God ought to share with the very

nations themselves in matters of his kind either in dress, or in 
 food, or in any other kind of their gladness. "To rejoice with the 
 rejoicing, and grieve with the grieving," is said.about brethren by 
 the apostle when exhorting to unanimity. But, for these purposes, 
 "There is nought of communion between light and darkness," between 
 life and death or else we rescind what is written, "The world shall 
 rejoice, but ye shall grieve." If we rejoice with the world, there 
 is reason to fear that with the world we shall grieve too. But when 
 the world rejoices, let us grieve; and when the world afterward 
 grieves, we shall rejoice. Thus, too, Eleazar in Hades, (attaining 
 refreshment in Abraham's bosom) and the rich man, (on the other 
 hand, set in the torment of fire) compensate, by an answerable 
 retribution, their alternate vicissitudes of evil and good. There 
 are certain gift-days, which with some adjust the claim of honour, 
 with others the debt of wages. "Now, then," you say, "I shall 
 receive back what is mine, or pay back what is another's." If men 
 have consecrated for themselves this custom from superstition, why 
 do you, estranged as you are from all their vanity, participate in 
 solemnities consecrated to idols; as if for you also there were some 
 prescript about a day, short of the observance of a particular day, 
 to prevent your paying or receiving what you owe a man, or what is 
 owed you by a man? Give me the form after which you wish to be dealt 
 with. For why should you skulk withal, when you contaminate your own 
 conscience by your neighbour's ignorance? If you are not unknown to 
 be a Christian, you are tempted, and you act as if you were not a 
 Christian against your neighbour's conscience; if, however, you 
 shall be disguised withal, you are the slave of the temptation. At 
 all events, whether in the latter or the former way, you are guilty 
 of being" ashamed of God." But "whosoever shall be ashamed of Me in 
 the presence of men, of him will I too be ashamed," says He, "in the 
 presence of my Father who is in the heavens." 
 
CHAP. XIV.--OF BLASPHEMY.ONE OF ST. PAUL'S SAYINGS.
But, however, the majority (of Christians) have by this time 
 induced the belief in their mind that it is pardonable if at any 
 time they do what the heathen do, for fear "the Name be blasphemed." 
 Now the blasphemy which must quite be shunned by us in every way is, 
 I take it, this: If any of us lead a heathen into blasphemy with 
 good cause, either by fraud, or by injury, or by contumely, or any 
 other matter of worthy complaint, in which "the Name" is deservedly 
 impugned, so that the Lord, too, be deservedly angry. Else, if of 
 all blasphemy it has been said, "By your means My Name is 
 blasphemed," we all perish at once; since the whole circus, with no 
 desert of ours, assails "the Name" with wicked suffrages. Let us 
 cease (to be Christians) and it will not be blasphemed! On the 
 contrary, while we are, let it be blasphemed: in the observance, not 
 the overstepping, of discipline; while we are being approved, not 
 while we are being reprobated. Oh blasphemy, bordering on martyrdom, 
 which now attests me to be a Christian, while for that very account 
 it detests me! The cursing of well-maintained Discipline is a 
 blessing of the Name. "If," says he, "I wished to please men, I 
 should not be Christ's servant." But the same apostle elsewhere bids 
 us take care to please all: "As I," he says, "please all by all 
 means." No doubt he used to please them by celebrating the 
 Saturnalia and New-year's day! [Was it so] or was it by moderation 
 and patience? by gravity, by kindness, by integrity? In like manner, 
 when he is saying, "I have become all things to all, that I may gain 
 all," does he mean "to idolaters an idolater? "to heathens a 
 heathen?" "to the worldly worldly?" But albeit he does not prohibit 
 us from having our conversation with idolaters and adulterers, and 
 the other criminals, saying, "Otherwise ye would go out from the 
 world," of course he does not so slacken those reins of conversation 
 that, since it is necessary for us both to live and to mingle with 
 sinners, we may be able to sin with them too. Where there is the 
 intercourse of life, which the apostle concedes, there is sinning, 
 which no one permits. To live with heathens is lawful, to die with 
 them is not. Let us live with all; let us be glad with them, out 
 of community of nature, not of superstition. We are peers in soul, 
 not in discipline; fellow-possessors of the world, not of error. But 
 if we have no right of communion in matters of this kind with 
 strangers, how far more wicked to celebrate them among brethren! Who 
 can maintain or defend this? The Holy Spirit upbraids the Jews with 
 their holy-days. "Your Sabbaths, and new moons, and ceremonies," 
 says He, "My soul hateth." By us, to whom Sabbaths are strange, and 
 the new moons and festivals formerly beloved by God, the Saturnalia 
 and New-year's and Midwinter's festivals and Matronalia are 
 frequented--presents come and go--New-year's gifts--games join their 
 noise--banquets join their din! Oh better fidelity of the nations to 
 their own sect, which claims no solemnity of the Christians for 
 itself! Not the Lord's day, not Pentecost, even it they had known 
 them, would they have shared with us; for they would fear lest they 
 should seem to be Christians. We are not apprehensive lest we seem 
 to be heathens! If any indulgence is to be granted to the flesh, you 
 have it. I will not say your own days, but more too; for to the 
 heathens each festive day occurs but once annually: you have a 
 festive day every eighth day. Call out the individual solemnities of 
 the nations, and set them out into a row, they will not be able to 
 make up a Pentecost. 
 
CHAP. XV.--CONCERNING FESTIVALS IN HONOUR OF EMPERORS, 
 VICTORIES, AND THE LIKE. EXAMPLES OF THE THREE CHILDREN AND DANIEL.
But "let your works shine," saith He; but now all our shops and 
 gates shine! You will now-a-days find more doors of heathens without 
 lamps and laurel-wreaths than of Christians. What does the case seem 
 to be with regard to that species (of ceremony) also? If it is an 
 idol's honour, without doubt an idol's honour is idolatry. If it is 
 for a man's sake, let us again consider that all idolatry is for 
 man's sake; let us again consider that all idolatry is a worship 
 done to men, since it is generally agreed even among their 
 worshippers that aforetime the gods themselves of the nations were 
 men; and so it makes no difference whether that superstitious homage 
 be rendered to men of a former age or of this. Idolatry is 
 condemned, not on account of the persons which are set up for 
 worship, but on account of those its observances, which pertain to 
 demons. "The things which are Caesar's are to be rendered to 
 Caesar." It is enough that He set in apposition thereto, "and to God 
 the things which are God's." What things, then, are Caesar's? Those, 
 to wit, about which the consultation was then held, whether the 
 poll-tax should be furnished to Caesar or no. Therefore, too, the 
 Lord demanded that the money should be shown Him, and inquired about 
 the image, whose it was; and when He had heard it was Caesar's, 
 said, "Render to Caesar what are Caesar's, and what are God's to 
 God;" that is, the image of Caesar, which is on the coin, to Caesar, 
 and the image of God, which is on man, to God; so as to render to 
 Caesar indeed money, to God yourself. Otherwise, what will be God's, 
 if all things are Caesar's? "Then," do you say, "the lamps before my 
 doors, and the laurels on my posts are an honour to God?" They are 
 there of course, not because they are an honour to God, but to him 
 who is honour in God's stead by ceremonial observances of that kind, 
 so far as is manifest, saving the religious performance, which is in 
 secret appertaining to demons. For we ought to be sure if there are 
 any whose notice it escapes through ignorance of this world's 
 literature, that there are among the Romans even gods of entrances; 
 Cardea (Hinge-goddess), called after hinges, and Forculus (Door-god) 
 after doors, and Limentinus (Threshold-god) after the threshold, and 
 Janus himself (Gate-god) after the gate: and of course we know that, 
 though names be empty and reigned, yet, when they are drawn down 
 into superstition, demons and every unclean spirit seize them for 
 themselves, through the bond of consecration. Otherwise demons have 
 no name individually, but they there find a name where they find 
 also a token. Among the Greeks likewise we read of Apollo Thyraeus, 
 i.e. of the door, and the Antelii, or Anthelii, demons, as presiders 
 over entrances. These things, therefore, the Holy Spirit foreseeing 
 from the beginning, fore-chanted, through the most ancient prophet 
 Enoch, that even entrances would come

into superstitious use. For we see too that other entrances are 
 adored in the baths. But if there are beings which are adored in 
 entrances, it is to them that both the lamps and the laurels will 
 pertain. To an idol you will have done whatever you shall have done 
 to an entrance. In this place I call a witness on the authority also 
 of God; because it is not safe to suppress whatever may have been 
 shown to one, of course for the sake of all. I know that a brother 
 was severely chastised, the same night, through a vision, because on 
 the sudden announcement of public rejoicings his servants had 
 wreathed his gates. And yet himself had not wreathed, or commanded 
 them to be wreathed; for he had gone forth from home before, and on 
 his return had reprehended the deed. So strictly are we appraised 
 with God in matters of this kind, even with regard to the discipline 
 of our family. Therefore, as to what relates to the honours due to 
 kings or emperors, we have a prescript sufficient, that it behoves 
 us to be in all obedience, according to the apostle's precept, 
 "subject to magistrates, and princes, and powers;" 
 
but within the limits of discipline, so long as we keep ourselves 
 separate from idolatry. For it is for this reason, too, that that 
 example of the three brethren has forerun us, who, in other respects 
 obedient toward king Nebuchodonosor rejected with all constancy the 
 honour to his image, proving that whatever is extolled beyond the 
 measure of human honour, unto the resemblance of divine sublimity, 
 is idolatry. So too, Daniel, in all other points submissive to 
 Darius, remained in his duty so long as it was free from danger to 
 his religion; for, to avoid undergoing that danger, he feared the 
 royal lions no more than they the royal fires. Let, therefore, them 
 who have no light, light their lamps daily; let them over whom the 
 fires of hell are imminent, affix to their posts, laurels doomed 
 presently to burn: to them the testimonies of darkness and the omens 
 of their penalties are suitable. You are a light of the world, and a 
 tree ever green. If you have renounced temples, make not your own 
 gate a temple. I have said too little. If you have renounced stews, 
 clothe not your own house with the appearance of a new brothel. 
 
CHAP. XVI.--CONCERNING PRIVATE FESTIVALS.
Touching the ceremonies, however, of private and social 
 solemnities--as those of the white toga, of espousals, of nuptials, 
 of name-givings--I should think no danger need be guarded against 
 from the breath of the idolatry which is mixed up with them. For the 
 causes are to be considered to which the ceremony is due. Those 
 above-named I take to be clean in themselves, because neither manly 
 garb, nor the marital ring or union, descends from honours done to 
 any idol. In short, I find no dress cursed by God, except a woman's 
 dress on a man: for "cursed," saith He, "is every man who clothes 
 himself in woman's attire." The toga, however, is a dress of manly 
 name as well as of manly use. God no more prohibits nuptials to be 
 celebrated than a name to be given. "But there are sacrifices 
 appropriated to these occasions." Let me be invited, and let not the 
 title of the ceremony be "assistance at a sacrifice," and the 
 discharge of my good offices is at the service of my friends. Would 
 that it were "at their service" indeed, and that we could escape 
 seeing what is unlawful for us to do. But since the evil one has so 
 surrounded the world with idolatry, it will be lawful for us to be 
 present at some ceremonies which see us doing service to a man, not 
 to an idol. Clearly, if invited unto priestly function and 
 sacrifice, I will not go, for that is service peculiar to an idol; 
 but neither will I furnish advice, or expense, or any other good 
 office m a matter of that kind. If it is on account of the sacrifice 
 that I be invited, and stand by, I shall be partaker of idolatry; if 
 any other cause conjoins me to the sacrificer, I shall be merely a 
 spectator of the sacrifice. 
 
CHAP. XVII.--THE CASES OF SERVANTS AND OTHER OFFICIALS. 
 WHAT OFFICES A CHRISTIAN MAN MAY HOLD.
But what shall believing servants or children do? officials 
 likewise, when attending on their lords, or patrons, or superiors, 
 when sacrificing? Well, if any one shall have handed the wine to a 
 sacrificer, nay, if by any

single word necessary or belonging to a sacrifice he shall have 
 aided him, he will be held to be a minister of idolatry. Mindful of 
 this rule, we can render service even "to magistrates and powers," 
 after the example of the patriarchs and the other forefathers, who 
 obeyed idolatrous kings up to the confine of idolatry. Hence arose, 
 very lately, a dispute whether a servant of God should take the 
 administration of any dignity or power, if he be able, whether by 
 some special grace, or by adroitness, to keep himself intact from 
 every species of idolatry; after the example that both Joseph and 
 Daniel, clean from idolatry, administered both dignity and power in 
 the livery and purple of the prefecture of entire Egypt or 
 Babylonia. And so let us grant that it is possible for any one to 
 succeed in moving, in whatsoever office, under the mere name of the 
 office, neither sacrificing nor lending his authority to sacrifices; 
 not farming out victims; not assigning to others the care of 
 temples; not looking after their tributes; not giving spectacles at 
 his own or the public charge, or presiding over the giving them; 
 making proclamation or edict for no solemnity; not even taking 
 oaths: moreover (what comes under the head of power), neither 
 sitting in judgment on any one's life or character, for you might 
 bear with his judging about money; neither condemning nor 
 fore-condemning; binding no one, imprisoning or torturing no one--if 
 it is credible that all this is possible. 
 
CHAP. XVIII.--DRESS AS CONNECTED WITH IDOLATRY.
But we must now treat of the garb only and apparatus of office. 
 There is a dress proper to every one, as well for daily use as for 
 office and dignity. That famous purple, therefore, and the gold as 
 an ornament of the neck, were, among the Egyptians and Babylonians, 
 ensigns of dignity, in the same way as bordered, or striped, or 
 palm-embroidered togas, and the golden wreaths of provincial 
 priests, are now; but not on the same terms. For they used only to 
 be conferred, under the name of honour, on such as deserved the 
 familiar friendship of kings (whence, too, such used to be styled 
 the "purpled-men" of kings, just as among us, some, from their white 
 toga, are called "candidates"); but not on the understanding that 
 that garb should be tied to priesthoods also, or to any 
 idol-ceremonies. For if that were the case, of course men of such 
 holiness and constancy would instantly have refused the defiled 
 dresses; and it would instantly have appeared that Daniel had been 
 no zealous slave to idols, nor worshipped Bel, nor the dragon, which 
 long after did appear. That purple, therefore, was simple, and used 
 not at that time to be a mark of dignity among the barbarians, but 
 of nobility. For as both Joseph, who had been a slave, and Daniel, 
 who through captivity had changed his state, attained the freedom of 
 the states of Babylon and Egypt through the dress of barbaric 
 nobility; so among us believers also, if need so be, the bordered 
 toga will be proper to be conceded to boys, and the stole to girls, 
 as ensigns of birth, not of power; of race, not of office; of rank, 
 not of superstition. But the purple, or the other ensigns of 
 dignities and powers, dedicated from the beginning to idolatry 
 engrafted on the dignity and the powers, carry the spot of their own 
 profanation; since, moreover, bordered and striped togas, and 
 broad-barred ones, are put even on idols themselves; and fasces 
 also, and rods, are borne before them; and deservedly, for demons 
 are the magistrates of this world: they bear the fasces and the 
 purples, the ensigns of one college. What end, then, will you 
 advance if you use the garb indeed, but administer not the functions 
 of it? In things unclean, none can appear clean. If you put on a 
 tunic defiled in itself, it perhaps may not be defiled through you; 
 but you, through it, will be unable to be clean. Now by this time, 
 you who argue about "Joseph" and "Daniel," know that things old and 
 new, rude and polished, begun and developed, slavish and free, are 
 not always comparable. For they, even by their circumstances, were 
 slaves; but you, the slave of none, in so far as you are the slave 
 of Christ alone, who has freed you likewise from the captivity of 
 the world, will incur the duty of acting after your Lord's pattern. 
 That Lord walked in humility and obscurity, with no definite home: 
 for "the Son of man," said He, "hath not where to lay His head;" 
 unadorned in dress, for else He had not said,

"Behold, they who are clad in soft raiment are in kings' houses:" 
 in short, inglorious in countenance and aspect, just as Isaiah 
 withal had fore-announced. If, also, He exercised no right of power 
 even over His own followers, to whom He discharged menial ministry; 
 if, in short, though conscious of His own kingdom, He shrank back 
 from being made a king, He in the fullest manner gave His own an 
 example for turning coldly from all the pride and garb, as well of 
 dignity as of power. For if they were to be used, who would rather 
 have used them than the Son of God? What kind and what number of 
 fasces would escort Him? what kind of purple would bloom from His 
 shoulders? what kind of gold would beam from His head, had He not 
 judged the glory of the world to be alien both to Himself and to 
 His? Therefore what He was unwilling to accept, He has rejected; 
 what He rejected, He has condemned; what He condemned, He has 
 counted as part of the devil's pomp. For He would not have condemned 
 things, except such as were not His; but things which are not God's, 
 can be no other's but the devil's. If you have forsworn "the devil's 
 pomp," know that whatever there you touch is idolatry. Let even this 
 fact help to remind you that all the powers and dignities of this 
 world are not only alien to, but enemies of, God; that through them 
 punishments have been determined against God's servants; through 
 them, too, penalties prepared for the impious are ignored. But "both 
 your birth and your substance are troublesome to you in resisting 
 idolatry." For avoiding it, remedies cannot be lacking; since, even 
 if they be lacking, there remains that one by which you will be made 
 a happier magistrate, not in the earth, but in the heavens. 
 
CHAP. XIX.--CONCERNING MILITARY SERVICE
In that last section, decision may seem to have been given 
 likewise concerning military service, which is between dignity and 
 power. But now inquiry is made about this point, whether a believer 
 may turn himself unto military service, and whether the military may 
 be admitted unto the faith, even the rank and file, or each inferior 
 grade, to whom there is no necessity for taking part in sacrifices 
 or capital punishments. There is no agreement between the divine and 
 the human sacrament, the standard of Christ and the standard of the 
 devil, the camp of light and the camp of darkness. One soul cannot 
 be due to two masters--God and Caesar. And yet Moses carried a rod, 
 
and Aaron wore a buckle, and John (Baptist) is girt with leather 
 and Joshua the son of Nun leads a line of march; and the People 
 warred: if it pleases you to sport with the subject. But how will a 
 Christian man war, nay, how will he serve even in peace, without a 
 sword, which the Lord has taken away? For albeit soldiers had come 
 unto John, and had received the formula of their rule; albeit, 
 likewise, a centurion had believed; still the Lord afterward, in 
 disarming Peter, unbe d every soldier. No dress is lawful among us, 
 if assigned to any unlawful action. 
 
CHAP. XX.--CONCERNING IDOLATRY IN WORDS.
But, however, since the conduct according to the divine rule is 
 imperilled, not merely by deeds, but likewise by words, (for, just 
 as it is written, "Behold the man and his deeds;" so, "Out of thy 
 own mouth shalt thou be justified"), we ought to remember that, even 
 in words, also the inroad of idolatry must be foreguarded against, 
 either from the defect of custom or of timidity. The law prohibits 
 the gods of the nations from being named, not of course that we are 
 not to pronounce their names, the speaking of which common 
 intercourse extorts from us: for this must very frequently be said, 
 "You find him in the temple of Aesculapius;" and, "I live in Isis 
 Street;" and, "He has been made priest of Jupiter;" and much else 
 after this manner, since even on men names of this kind are 
 bestowed. I do not honour Saturnus if I call a man so, by his own 
 name. I honour him no more than I do Marcus, if I call a man Marcus. 
 But it says, "Make not mention of the name of other gods, neither be 
 it heard from thy mouth." The precept it gives is

this, that we do not call them gods. For in the first part of the 
 law, too, "Thou shalt not," saith He, "use the name of the Lord thy 
 God in a vain thing," that is, in an idol. Whoever, therefore, 
 honours an idol with the name of God, has fallen into idolatry. But 
 if i speak of them as gods, something must be added to make it 
 appear that I do not call them gods. For even the Scripture names 
 "gods," but adds "their," viz. "of the nations:" just as David does 
 when he had named "gods," where he says, "But the gods of the 
 nations are demons." But this has been laid by me rather as a 
 foundation for ensuing observations. However, it is a defect of 
 custom to say, "By Hercules, "So help me the god of faith;" while to 
 the custom is added the ignorance of some, who are ignorant that it 
 is an oath by Hercules. Further, what will an oath be, in the name 
 of gods whom you have forsworn, but a collusion of faith with 
 idolatry? For who does not honour them in whose name he swears? 
 
CHAP. XXI.--OF SILENT ACQUIESCENCE IN HEATHEN FORMULARIES.
But it is a mark of timidity, when some other man binds you in 
 the name of his gods, by the making of an oath, or by some other 
 form of attestation, and you, for fear of discovery, remain quiet. 
 For you equally, by remaining quiet, affirm their majesty, by reason 
 of which majesty you will seem to be bound. What matters it, whether 
 you affirm the gods of the nations by calling them gods, or by 
 hearing them so called? Whether you swear by idols, or, when adjured 
 by another, acquiesce? Why should we not recognize the subtleties of 
 Satan, who makes it his aim that, what he cannot effect by our 
 mouth, he may effect by the mouth of his servants, introducing 
 idolatry into us through our ears? At all events, whoever the 
 adjurer is, he binds you to himself either in friendly or unfriendly 
 conjunction. If in unfriendly, you are now challenged unto battle, 
 and know that you must fight. If in friendly, with how far greater 
 security will you transfer your engagement unto the Lord, that you 
 may dissolve the obligation of him through whose means the Evil One 
 was seeking to annex you to the honour of idols, that is, to 
 idolatry! All sufferance of that kind is idolatry. You honour those 
 to whom, when imposed as authorities, you have rendered respect. I 
 know that one (whom the Lord pardon!), when it had been said to him 
 in public during a law-suit, "Jupiter be wroth with you," 
 
answered, "On the contrary, with you." What else would a heathen 
 have done who believed Jupiter to be a god? For even had he not 
 retorted the malediction by Jupiter (or other such like), yet, by 
 merely returning a curse, he would have confirmed the divinity of 
 Jove, showing himself irritated by a malediction in Jove's name. For 
 what is there to be indignant at, (if cursed) in the name of one 
 whom you know to be nothing? For if you rave, you immediately affirm 
 his existence, and the profession of your fear will be an act of 
 idolatry. How much more, while you are returning the malediction in 
 the name of Jupiter himself, are you doing honour to Jupiter in the 
 same way as he who provoked you! But a believer ought to laugh in 
 such cases, not to rave; nay, according to the precept, not to 
 return a curse in the name of God even, but dearly to bless in the 
 name of God, that you may both demolish idols and preach God, and 
 fulfil discipline. 
 
CHAP. XXII.--OF ACCEPTING BLESSING IN THE NAME OF IDOLS.
Equally, one who has been initiated into Christ will not endure 
 to be blessed in the name of the gods of the nations, so as not 
 always to reject the unclean benediction, and to cleanse it out for 
 himself by converting it Godward. To be blessed in the name of the 
 gods of the nations is to be cursed in the name of God. If I have 
 given an alms, or shown any other kindness, and the recipient pray 
 that his gods, or the Genius of the colony, may be propitious to me, 
 my oblation or act will immediately be an honour to idols, in whose 
 name he returns me the favour of blessing. But why should he not 
 know that I have done it for God's sake; that God may rather be 
 glorified, and demons may not be honoured in that which I have done 
 for the sake of God? If God sees that I have done it for His sake, 
 He equally sees that I have been unwilling to shaw that I did it for 
 His sake, and have m a manner made His precept a sacrifice to idols. 
 Many say, "No one ought to divulge himself;" 
 
but I think neither ought he to dory himself. For whoever 
 dissembles in any cause whatever, by being held as a heathen,

does deny; and, of course, all denial is idolatry, just as all 
 idolatry is denial, whether in deeds or in words. 
 
CHAP. XXIII.--WRITTEN CONTRACTS IN THE NAME OF IDOLS. 
 TACIT CONSENT.
But there is a certain species of that class, doubly sharpened in 
 deed and word, and mischievous on either side, although it flatter 
 you, as if it were free of danger in each; while it does not seem to 
 be a deed, because it is not laid hold of as a word. In borrowing 
 money from heathens under pledged securities, Christians give a 
 guarantee under oath, and deny themselves to have done so. Of 
 course, the time of the prosecution, and the place of the judgment 
 seat, and the person of the presiding judge, decide that they knew 
 themselves to have so dane. Christ prescribes that there is to be no 
 swearing. "I wrote," says the debtor, "but I said nothing. It is the 
 tongue, not the written letter, which kills." Here I call Nature and 
 Conscience as my witnesses: Nature, because even if the tongue in 
 dictating remains motionless and quiet, the hand can write nothing 
 which the soul has not dictated; albeit even to the tongue itself 
 the soul may have dictated either something conceived by itself, or 
 else something delivered by another. Now, lest it be said, "Another 
 dictated," I here appeal to Conscience whether, what another 
 dictated, the soul entertains, and transmits unto the hand, whether 
 with the concomitance or the inaction of the tongue. Enough, that 
 the Lord has said faults are committed in the mind and the 
 conscience. If concupiscence or malice have ascended into a man's 
 heart, He saith it is held as a deed. You therefore have given a 
 guarantee; which clearly has "ascended into your heart," which you 
 can neither contend you were ignorant of nor unwilling; for when you 
 gave the guarantee, you knew that you did it; when you knew, of 
 course you were willing: you did it as well in act as in thought; 
 nor can you by the lighter charge exclude the heavier, so as to say 
 that it is clearly rendered false, by giving a guarantee I for what 
 you do not actually perform. "Yet I have not denied, because I have 
 not sworn." But you have sworn, since, even if you had done no such 
 thing, you would still be said to swear, if you have even consented 
 to so doing. Silence of voice is an unavailing plea in a case of 
 writing; and muteness of sound in a case of letters. For Zacharias, 
 when punished with a temporary privation of voice, holds colloquy 
 with his mind, and, passing by his bootless tongue, with the help of 
 his hands dictates from his heart, and without his mouth pronounces 
 the name of his son. Thus, in his pen there speaks a hand clearer 
 than every sound, in his waxen tablet there is heard a letter more 
 vocal that every mouth. Inquire whether a man have spoken who is 
 understood to have spoken. Pray we the Lord that no necessity for 
 that kind of contract may ever encompass us; and if it should so 
 fall out, may He give our brethren the means of helping us, or give 
 us constancy to break off all suck necessity, lest those denying 
 letters, the substitutes for our mouth, be brought forward against 
 us in the day of judgment, sealed with the seals, not now of 
 witnesses, but of angels! 
 
CHAP. XXIV.--GENERAL CONCLUSION.
Amid these reefs and inlets, amid these shallows and straits of 
 idolatry, Faith, her sails filled by the Spirit of God, navigates; 
 safe if cautious, secure if intently watchful. But to such as are 
 washed overboard is a deep whence is no out-swimming; to such as are 
 run aground is inextricable shipwreck; to such as are engulphed is a 
 whirlpool, where there is no breathing--even in idolatry. All waves 
 thereof whatsoever suffocate; every eddy thereof sucks down unto 
 Hades. Let no one say, "Who will so safely foreguard himself? We 
 shall have to go out of the world!" As if it were not as well worth 
 while to go out, as to stand in the world as an idolater! Nothing 
 can be easier than caution against idolatry, if the fear of it be 
 our leading fear; any "necessity" whatever
is too trifling compared to such a peril. The reason why the Holy 
 Spirit did, when the apostles at that time were consulting, relax 
 the bond and yoke for us, was that we might be free to devote 
 ourselves to the shunning of idolatry. This shall be our Law, the 
 more fully to be administered the more ready it is to hand; (a Law) 
 peculiar to Christians, by means whereof we are recognised and 
 examined by heathens. This Law must be set before such as approach 
 unto the Faith, and inculcated on such as are entering it; that, in 
 approaching, they may deliberate; observing it, may persevere; not 
 observing it, may renounce their name. We will see to it, if, after 
 the type of the Ark, there shall be in the Church raven, kite, dog, 
 and serpent. At all events, an idolater is not found in the type of 
 the Ark: no animal has been fashioned to represent an idolater. Let 
 not that be in the Church which was not in the Ark. 

