
Tertullian












TERTULLIAN 
AN ANSWER TO THE JEWS. 
TRANSLATED BY THE REV. S. THELWALL.
CHAP. I.--OCCASION OF WRITING. RELATIVE POSITION OF JEWS AND GENTILES 
ILLUSTRATED.
IT happened very recently a dispute was held between a Christian and a Jewish 
proselyte. Alternately with contentious cable they each spun out the day until 
evening. By the opposing din, moreover, of some partisans of the individuals, 
truth began to be overcast by a sort of cloud. It was therefore our pleasure 
that that which, owing to the confused noise of disputation, could be less fully 
elucidated point by point, should be more carefully looked into, and that the 
pen should determine, for reading purposes, the questions handled For the 
occasion, indeed, of claiming Divine grace even for the Gentiles derived a 
pre-eminent fitness from this fact, that the man who set up to vindicate CoWs 
Law as his own was of the Gentiles, and not a Jew "of the stock of the 
Israelites." For this fact--that Gentiles are admissible to God's Law--is enough 
to prevent Israel from priding himself on the notion that "the Gentiles are 
accounted as a little drop of a bucket," or else as "dust out of a 
threshing-floor:" although we have God Himself as an adequate engager and 
faithful promiser, in that He promised to Abraham that "in his seed should be 
blest all nations of the earth;" and that out of the womb of Rebecca "two 
peoples and two nations were about to proceed,"--of course those of the Jews, 
that is, of Israel; and of the Gentiles, that is ours. Each, then, was called a 
people and a nation; lest, from the nuncupative appellation, any should dare to 
claim for himself the privilege of grace. For God ordained "two peoples and two 
nations" as about to proceed out of the womb of one woman: nor did grace make 
distinction in the nuncupative appellation, but in the order of birth; to the 
effect that, which ever was to be prior in proceeding from the womb, should be 
subjected to "the less," that is, the posterior. For thus unto Rebecca did God 
speak: "Two nations are in thy womb, and two peoples shall be divided from thy 
bowels; and people shall overcome people, and the greater shall serve the less." 
Accordingly, since the people or nation of the Jews is anterior in time, and 
"greater" through the grace of primary favour in the Law, whereas ours is 
understood to be "less" in the age of times, as having in the last era of the 
world attained the knowledge of divine mercy: beyond doubt, through the edict of 
the divine utterance, the prior and "greater" people--that is, the Jewish--must 
necessarily serve the "less;" and the "less" people--that is, the 
Christian--overcome the "greater." 
For, withal, according to the memorial records of the divine Scriptures, the 
people of the Jews--that is, the more ancient--quite forsook God, and did 
degrading service to idols, and, abandoning the Divinity, was surrendered to 
images; while "the people" said to Aaron, "Make us gods to go before us." 
And when the gold out of the necklaces of the women and the rings of 152 
the men had been wholly smelted by fire, and there had come forth a calf-like 
head, to this figment Israel with one consent (abandoning God) gave honour, 
saying, "These are the gods who brought us from the land of Egypt." For thus, in 
the later times in which kings were governing them, did they again, in 
conjunction with Jeroboam, worship golden kine, and groves, and enslave 
themselves to Baal. Whence is proved that they have ever been depicted, out of 
the volume of the divine Scriptures, as guilty of the crime of idolatry; whereas 
our "less"--that is, posterior--people, quitting the idols which formerly it 
used slavishly to serve, has been converted to the same God from whom Israel, as 
we have above related, had departed. For thus has the "less"--that is, 
posterior--people overcome the"greater people," while it attains the grace of 
divine favour, from which Israel has been divorced. 
CHAP. II.--THE LAW ANTERIOR TO MOSES.
Stand we, therefore, foot to foot, and determine we the sum and substance of 
the actual question within definite lists. 
For why should God, the founder of the universe, the Governor of the whole 
world, the Fashioner of humanity,the Sower of universal nations be believed to 
have given a law through Moses to one people, and not be said to have assigned 
it to all nations? For unless He had given it to all by no means would He have 
habitually permitted even proselytes out of the nations to have access to it. 
But--as is congruous with the goodness of God, and with His equity, as the 
Fashioner of mankind--He gave to all nations the selfsame law, which at definite 
and stated times He enjoined should be observed, when He willed, and through 
whom He willed, and as He willed. For in the beginning of the world He gave to 
Adam himself and Eve a law, that they were not to eat of the fruit of the tree 
planted in the midst of paradise; but that, if they did contrariwise, by death 
they were to die. Which law had continued enough for them, had it been kept. For 
in this law given to Adam we recognise in embryo all the precepts which 
afterwards sprouted forth when given through Moses; that is, Thou shalt love the 
Lord thy God from thy whole heart and out of thy whole soul; Thou shalt love thy 
neighbour as thyself; Thou shalt not kill; Thou shall not commit adultery; Thou 
shalt not steal; False witness thou shall not utter; Honour thy father and 
mother; and, That which is another's, shall thou not covet. For the primordial 
law was given to Adam and Eve in paradise, as the womb of all the precepts of 
God. In short, if they had loved the Lord their God, they would not have 
contravened His precept; if they had habitually loved their neighbour--that is, 
themselves--they would not have believed the persuasion of the serpent, and thus 
would not have committed murder upon themselves, by falling from immortality, by 
contravening God's precept; from theft also they would have abstained, if they 
had not stealthily tasted of the fruit of the tree, nor had been anxious to 
skulk beneath a tree to escape the view of the Lord their God; nor would they 
have been made partners with the falsehood-asseverating devil, by believing him 
that they would be "like God;" and thus they would not have offended God either, 
as their Father, who had fashioned them from clay of the earth, as out of the 
womb of a mother; if they had not coveted another's, they would not have tasted 
of the unlawful fruit. Therefore, in this general and primordial law of God, the 
observance of which, in the case of the tree's fruit, He had sanctioned, we 
recognise enclosed all the precepts specially of the posterior Law, which 
germinated when disclosed at their proper times. For the subsequent 
superinduction of a law is the work of the same Being who had before premised a 
precept; since it is His province withal subsequently to train, who had before 
resolved to form, righteous creatures. For what wonder if He extends a 
discipline who institutes it? if He advances who begins? In short, before the 
Law of Moses, written in stone-tables, I contend that there was a law unwritten, 
which was habitually understood naturally, and by the fathers was habitually 
kept. For whence was Noah "found righteous,"if in his case the righteousness of 
a natural law had not preceded? Whence was Abraham accounted "a friend of God," 
if not on the ground of equity and righteousness, (in the observance) of a 
natural law? Whence was Melchizedek named "priest of the most high God," if, 153 

before the priesthood of the Levitical law, there were not levites who were 
wont to offer sacrifices to God? For thus, after the above-mentioned patriarchs, 
was the Law given to Moses, at that (well-known) time after their exode from 
Egypt, after the interval and spaces of four hundred years. In fact, it was 
after Abraham's "four hundred and thirty years" that the Law was given. Whence 
we understand that God's law was anterior even to Moses, and was not first 
(given) in Horeb, nor in Sinai and in the desert, but was more ancient; 
(existing) first in paradise, subsequently reformed for the patriarchs, and so 
again for the Jews, at definite periods: so that we are not to give heed to 
Moses' Law as to the primitive law, but as to a subsequent, which at a definite 
period God has set forth to the Gentiles too and, after repeatedly promising so 
to do through the prophets, has reformed for the better; and has premonished 
that it should come to pass that, just as "the law was given through Moses" at a 
definite time, so it should be believed to have been temporarily observed and 
kept. And let us not annul this power which God has, which reforms the law's 
precepts answerably to the circumstances of the times, with a view to man's 
salvation. In fine, let him who contends that the Sabbath is still to be 
observed as a balm of salvation, and circumcision on the eighth day because of 
the threat of death, teach us that, for the time past, righteous men kept the 
Sabbath, or practised circumcision, and were thus rendered "friends of God." For 
if circumcision purges a man since God made Adam uncircumcised, why did He not 
circumcise him, even after his sinning, if circumcision purges? At all events, 
in settling him in paradise, He appointed one uncircumcised as colonist of 
paradise. Therefore, since God originated Adam uncircumcised, and inobservant of 
the Sabbath, consequently his offspring also, Abel, offering Him sacrifices, 
uncircumcised and inobservant of the Sabbath, was by Him commended; while He 
accepted what he was offering in simplicity of heart, and reprobated the 
sacrifice of his brother Cain, who was not rightly dividing what he was 
offering. Noah also, uncircumcised--yes, and inobservant of the Sabbath--God 
freed from the deluge. For Enoch, too, most righteous man, uncircumcised and 
in-observant of the Sabbath, He translated from this world; who did not first 
taste death, in order that, being a candidate for eternal life, he might by this 
time show us that we also may, without the burden of the law of Moses, please 
God. Melchizedek also, "the priest of the most high God," uncircumcised and 
inobservant of the Sabbath, was chosen to the priesthood of God. Lot, withal, 
the brother of Abraham, proves that it was for the merits of righteousness, 
without observance of the law, that he was freed from the conflagration of the 
Sodomites. 
CHAP. III.--OF CIRCUMCISION AND THE SUPERCESSION OF THE OLD LAW.
But Abraham, (you say,) was circumcised. Yes, but he pleased God before his 
circumcision; nor yet did he observe the Sabbath. For he had "accepted" 
circumcision; but such as was to be for "a sign" of that time, not for a 
prerogative title to salvation. In fact, subsequent patriarchs were 
uncircumcised, like Melchizedek, who, uncircumcised, offered to Abraham himself, 
already circumcised, on his return from battle, bread and wine. "But again," 
(you say) "the son of Moses would upon one occasion have been choked by an 
angel, if Zipporah, had not circumcised the foreskin of the infant with a 
pebble; whence, "there is the greatest peril if any fail to circumcise the 
foreskin of his flesh." Nay, but if circumcision altogether brought salvation, 
even Moses himself, in the case of his own son, would not have omitted to 
circumcise him on the eighth day; whereas it is agreed that Zipporah did it on 
the journey, at the compulsion of the angel. Consider we, accordingly, that one 
single infant's compulsory circumcision cannot have prescribed to every people, 
and rounded, as it were, a law for keeping this precept. For God, foreseeing 
that He was about to give this circumcision to the people of Israel for "a 
sign," not for salvation, urges the circumcision of the son of Moses, their 
future leader, for this reason; that, since He had begun, through him, to give 
the People the precept of cir 154 
cumcision, the people should not despise it, from seeing this example (of 
neglect) already exhibited conspicuously in their leader's son. For circumcision 
had to be given; but as "a sign," whence Israel in the last time would have to 
be distinguished, when, in accordance with their deserts, they should be 
prohibited from entering the holy city, as we see through the words of the 
prophets, saying, "Your land is desert; your cities utterly burnt with fire; 
your country, in your sight, strangers shall eat up; and, deserted and subverted 
by strange peoples, the daughter of Zion shall be derelict, like a shed in a 
vineyard, and like a watchhouse in a cucumber-field, and as it were a city which 
is being stormed." Why so? Because the subsequent discourse of the prophet 
reproaches them, saying, "Sons have I begotten and upraised, but they have 
reprobated me;" and again, "And if ye shall have outstretched hands, I will 
avert my face from you; and if ye shall have multiplied prayers, I will not hear 
you: for your hands are full of blood;" and again, "Woe! sinful nation; a people 
full of sins; wicked sons; ye have quite forsaken God, and have provoked unto 
indignation the Holy One of Israel." This, therefore, was God's foresight,--that 
of giving circumcision to Israel, for a sign whence they might be distinguished 
when the time should arrive wherein their above-mentioned deserts should 
prohibit their admission into Jerusalem: which circumstance, because it was to 
be, used to be announced; and, because we see it accomplished, is recognised by 
us. For, as the carnal circumcision, which was temporary, was inwrought for "a 
sign" in a contumacious people, so the spiritual has been given for salvation to 
an obedient people; while the prophet Jeremiah says, "Make a renewal for you, 
and sow not in thorns; be circumcised to God, and circumcise the foreskin of 
your heart:" and in another place he says, "Behold, days shall come, saith the 
Lord, and I will draw up, for the house of Judah and for the house of Jacob, a 
new testament; not such as I once gave their fathers in the day wherein I led 
them out from the land of Egypt." Whence we understand that the coming cessation 
of the former circumcision l then given, and the coming procession of a new law 
(not such as He had already given to the fathers), are announced: just as Isaiah 
foretold, saying that in the last days the mount of the Lord and the house of 
God were to be manifest above the tops of the mounts: "And it shall be exalted," 
he says, "above the hills; and there shall come over it all nations; and many 
shall walk, and say, Come, ascend we unto the mount of the Lord, and unto the 
house of the God of Jacob,"--not of Esau, the former son, but of Jacob, the 
second; that is, of our "people," whose "mount" is Christ, "praecised without 
concisors' hands, filling every land," shown in the book of Daniel. In short, 
the coming procession of a new law out of this "house of the God of Jacob" 
Isaiah in the ensuing words announces, saying, "For from Zion shall go out a 
law, and the word of the Lord out of Jerusalem, and shall judge among the 
nations,"--that is, among us, who have been called out of the nations,--"and 
they shall join to beat their glaives into ploughs, and their lances into 
sickles; and nations shall not take up glaive against nation, and they shall no 
more learn to fight." Who else, therefore, are understood but we, who, fully 
taught by the new law, observe these practices,--the old law being obliterated, 
the coming of whose abolition the action itself demonstrates? For the wont of 
the old law was to avenge itself by the vengeance of the glaive, and to pluck 
out "eye for eye," and to inflict retaliatory revenge for injury. But the new 
law's wont was to point to clemency, and to convert to tranquillity the pristine 
ferocity of "glaives" and "lances," and to remodel the pristine execution of 
"war" upon the rivals and foes of the law into the pacific actions of 
"ploughing" and "tilling" the land. Therefore as we have shown above that the 
coming cessation of the old law and of the carnal circumcision was declared, so, 
too, the observance of the new law and the spiritual circumcision has shone out 
into the voluntary obediences of peace. For "a people," he says, "whom I 
knew not hath served me; in obedience of the ear it hath obeyed me." Prophets 
made the announcement. But what is the "people" which was ignorant of God, but 
ours, who in days bygone knew not God? and who, in the 155 
hearing of the ear, gave heed to Him, but we, who, forsaking idols, have been 
converted to God? For Israel--who had been known to God, and who had by Him been 
"upraised" in Egypt, and was transported through the Red Sea, and who in the 
desert, fed forty years with manna, was wrought to the semblance of eternity, 
and not contaminated with human passions, or fed on this world's meats, but fed 
on "angel's loaves"--the manna--and sufficiently bound to God by His 
benefits--forgat his Lord and God, saying to Aaron: "Make us gods, to go before 
us: for that Moses, who ejected us from the land of Egypt, hath quite forsaken 
us; and what hath befallen him we know not." And accordingly we, who "were not 
the people of God" in days bygone, have been made His people, by accepting the 
new law above mentioned, and the new circumcision before foretold. 
CHAP. IV.--OF THE OBSERVANCE OF THE
SABBATH.
It follows, accordingly, that, in so far as the abolition of carnal 
circumcision and of the old law is demonstrated as having been consummated at 
its specific times, so also the observance of the Sabbath is demonstrated to 
have been temporary. 
For the Jews say, that from the beginning God sanctified the seventh day, by 
resting on it from all His works which He made; and that thence it was, 
likewise, that Moses said to the People: "REMEMBER the day of the sabbaths, to 
sanctify it: every servile work ye shall not do therein, except what pertaineth 
unto life." Whence we (Christians) understand that we still more ought to 
observe a sabbath from all "servile work" always, and not only every seventh 
day, but through all time. And through this arises the question for us, what 
sabbath God willed us to keep? For the Scriptures point to a sabbath eternal and 
a sabbath temporal. For Isaiah the prophet says, "Your sabbaths my soul hateth;" 
and in another place he says, "My sabbaths ye have profaned." Whence we discern 
that the temporal sabbath is human, and the eternal sabbath is accounted divine; 
concerning which He predicts through Isaiah: "And there shall be," He says, 
"month after month, and day after day, and sabbath after sabbath; and all flesh 
shall come to adore in Jerusalem, saith the Lord;" which we understand to have 
been fulfilled in the times of Christ, when "all flesh"--that is, every 
nation--"came to adore in Jerusalem" God the Father, through Jesus Christ His 
Son, as was predicted through the prophet: "Behold, proselytes through me shall 
go unto Thee." Thus, therefore, before this temporal sabbath, there was withal 
an eternal sabbath foreshown and foretold; just as before the carnal 
circumcision there was withal a spiritual circumcision foreshown. In short, let 
them teach us, as we have already premised, that Adam observed the sabbath; or 
that Abel, when offering to God a holy victim, pleased Him by a religious 
reverence for the sabbath; or that Enoch, when translated, had been a keeper of 
the sabbath; or that Noah the ark-builder observed, on account of the deluge, an 
immense sabbath; or that Abraham, in observance of the sabbath, offered Isaac 
his son; or that Melchizedek in his priesthood received the law of the sabbath. 
But the Jews are sure to say, that ever since this precept was given through 
Moses, the observance has been binding. Manifest accordingly it is, that the 
precept was not eternal nor spiritual, but temporary, which would one day cease. 
In short, so true is it that it is not in the exemption from work of the 
sabbath--that is, of the seventh day--that the celebration of this solemnity is 
to consist, that Joshua the son of Nun, at the time that he was reducing the 
city Jericho by war. stated that he had received from God a precept to order the 
People that priests should carry the ark of the testament of God seven days, 
making the circuit of the city; and thus, when the seventh day's circuit had 
been performed, the walls of the city would spontaneously fall. Which was so 
done; and when the space of the seventh day was finished, just as was predicted, 
down fell the walls of the city. Whence it is manifestly shown, that in the 
number of the seven days there intervened a sabbath-day. For seven days, 
whencesoever they may have commenced, must necessarily include within them a 
sabbath-day; on which day not only must the priests have worked, but the city 
must have been made a prey by the edge of the sword by all the people of Israel. 
Nor is it doubtful that they "wrought servile work," 
156 
when, in obedience to God's precept, they drave the preys of war. For in the 
times of the Maccabees, too, they did bravely in fighting on the sabbaths, and 
routed their foreign foes, and recalled the law of their fathers to the 
primitive style of life by fighting on the sabbaths. Nor should I think it was 
any other law which they thus vindicated, than the one in which they remembered 
the existence of the prescript touching "the day of the sabbaths." 
Whence it is manifest that the force of such precepts was temporary, and 
respected the necessity of present circumstances; and that it was not with a 
view to its observance in perpetuity that God formerly gave them such a law. 
CHAP. V.--OF SACRIFICES.
So, again, we show that sacrifices of earthly oblations and of spiritual 
sacrifices were predicted; and, moreover, that from the beginning the earthly 
were foreshown, in the person of Cain, to be those of the "elder son," 
that is, of Israel; and the opposite sacrifices demonstrated to be those of 
the "younger son," Abel, that is, of our people. For the elder, Cain, offered 
gifts to God from the fruit of the earth; but the younger son, Abel, from the 
fruit of his ewes. "God had respect unto Abel, and unto his gifts; but unto Cain 
and unto his gifts He had not respect. And God said unto Cain, Why is thy 
countenance fallen? hast thou not--if thou offerest indeed aright, but dost not 
divide aright--sinned? Hold thy peace. For unto thee shall thy conversion be and 
he shall lord it over thee. And then Cain said unto Abel his brother, Let us go 
into the field: and he went away with him thither, and he slew him. 
And then God said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I know 
not: am I my brother's keeper? To whom God said, The voice of the blood of thy 
brother crieth forth unto me from the earth. Wherefore cursed is the earth, 
which hath opened her mouth to receive the blood of thy brother. Groaning and 
trembling shalt thou be upon the earth, and every one who shall have found thee 
shall slay thee." From this proceeding we gather that the twofold sacrifices of 
"the peoples" were even from the very beginning foreshown. In short, when the 
sacerdotal law was being drawn up, through Moses, in Leviticus, we find it 
prescribed to the people of Israel that sacrifices should in no other place be 
offered to God than in the land of promise; which the Lord God was about to give 
to "the people" Israel and to their brethren, in order that, on Israel's 
introduction thither, there should there be celebrated sacrifices and 
holocausts, as well for sins as for souls; and nowhere else but in the holy 
land. Why, accordingly, does the Spirit afterwards predict, through the 
prophets, that it should come to pass that in every place and in every land 
there should be offered sacrifices to God? as He says through the angel Malachi, 
one of the twelve prophets: "I will not receive sacrifice from your hands; for 
from the rising sun unto the setting my Name hath been made famous among all the 
nations, saith the Lord Almighty: and in every place they offer clean sacrifices 
to my Name." Again, in the Pslams, David says: "Bring to God, ye countries of 
the nations"--undoubtedly because "unto every land" the preaching of the 
apostles had to "go out"--"bring to God fame and honour; bring to God the 
sacrifices of His name: take up victims and enter into His courts." For that it 
is not by earthly sacrifices, but by spiritual, that offering is to be made to 
God, we thus read, as it is written, An heart contribulate and humbled is a 
victim for God;" and elsewhere, "Sacrifice to God a sacrifice of praise, and 
render to the Highest thy vows." Thus, accordingly, the spiritual "sacrifices of 
praise" are pointed to, and "an heart contribulate" is demonstrated an 
acceptable sacrifice to God. And thus, as carnal sacrifices are understood to be 
reprobated--of which Isaiah withal speaks, saying, "To what end is the multitude 
of your sacrifices to me? saith the Lord"--so spiritual sacrifices are predicted 
as accepted, as the prophets announce. For, "even if ye shall have brought me," 
He says, "the finest wheat flour, it is a vain supplicatory gift: a thing 
execrable to me;" and again He says, "Your holocausts and sacrifices, and the 
fat of goats, and blood of bulls, I will not, not even if ye come to be seen by 
me: for who hath required these things from your hands?" for "from the rising 
sun unto the setting, my Name hath been made famous among all the nations, 157 
saith the Lord." But of the spiritual sacrifices He adds, saying, "And in 
every place they offer dean sacrifices to my Name, saith the Lord." 
CHAP. VI.--OF THE ABOLITION AND THE ABOLISHER OF THE OLD LAW.
Therefore, since it is manifest that a sabbath temporal was shown, and a 
sabbath eternal foretold; a circumcision carnal foretold, and a circumcision 
spiritual pre-indicated; a law temporal and a law eternal formally declared; 
sacrifices carnal and sacrifices spiritual foreshown; it follows that, after all 
these precepts had been given carnally, in time preceding, to the people Israel, 
there was to supervene a time whereat the precepts of the ancient Law and of the 
old ceremonies would cease, and the promise of the new law, and the recognition 
of spiritual sacrifices, and the promise of the New Testament, supervene; while 
the light from on high would beam upon us who were sitting in darkness, and were 
being detained in the shadow of death. And so there is incumbent on us a 
necessity s binding us, since we have premised that a new law was predicted by 
the prophets, and that not such as had been already given to their fathers at 
the time when He led them forth from the land of Egypt, to show and prove, on 
the one hand, that that old Law has ceased, and on the other, that the promised 
new law is now in operation. 
And, indeed, first we must inquire whether there be expected a giver of the 
new law, and an heir of the new testament, and a priest of the new sacrifices, 
and a purger of the new circumcision, and an observer of the eternal sabbath, to 
suppress the old law, and institute the new testament, and offer the new 
sacrifices, and repress the ancient ceremonies, and suppress the old 
circumcision together with its own sabbath, and announce the new kingdom which 
is not corruptible. Inquire, I say, we must, whether this giver of the new law, 
observer of the spiritual sabbath, priest of the eternal sacrifices, eternal 
ruler of the eternal kingdom, be come or no: that, if he is already come, 
service may have to be rendered him; if he is not yet come, he may have to be 
awaited, until by his advent it be manifest that the old Law's precepts are 
suppressed, and that the beginnings of the new law ought to arise. And, 
primarily, we must lay it down that the ancient Law and the prophets could not 
have ceased, unless He were come who was constantly announced, through the same 
Law and through the same prophets, as to come. 
CHAP. VII.--THE QUESTION WHETHER CHRIST
BE COME TAKEN UP. 
Therefore upon this issue plant we foot to foot, whether the Christ who was 
constantly announced as to come be already come, or whether His coming be yet a 
subject of hope. For proof of which question itself, the times likewise must be 
examined by us when the prophets announced that the Christ would come; that, if 
we succeed in recognising that He has come within the limits of those times, we 
may without doubt believe Him to be the very one whose future coming was ever 
the theme of prophetic song, upon whom we--the nations, to wit--were ever 
announced as destined to believe; and that, when it shall have been agreed that 
He is come, we may undoubtedly likewise believe that the new law has by Him been 
given, and not disavow the new testament in Him and through Him drawn up for us. 
For that Christ was to come we know that even the Jews do not attempt to 
disprove, inasmuch as it is to His advent that they are directing their hope. 
Nor need we inquire at more length concerning that matter, since in days bygone 
all the prophets have prophesied of it; as Isaiah: "Thus saith the Lord God to 
my Christ (the) Lord, whose right hand I have holden, that the nations may hear 
Him: the powers of kings will I burst asunder; I will open before Him the gates, 
and the cities shall not be closed to Him." Which very thing we see fulfilled. 
For whose right hand does God the Father hold but Christ's, His Son?--whom all 
nations have heard, that is, whom all nations have believed,--whose preachers, 
withal, the apostles, are pointed to in the Psalms of David: "Into the universal 
earth," says he, "is gone out their sound, and unto the ends of the earth their 
words." For upon whom else have the universal nations believed, but upon the 
Christ who is already come? For whom have the nations believed,--Parthians, 
Medes, Elamites, and they who inhabit Mesopotamia, Armenia, Phrygia, Cappadocia, 
and they who 158 
dwell in Pontus, and Asia, and Pamphylia, tarriers in Egypt, and inhabiters 
of the region of Africa which is beyond Cyrene, Romans and sojourners, yes, and 
in Jerusalem Jews, and all other nations; as, for instance, by this time, the 
varied races of the Gaetulians, and manifold confines of the Moors, all the 
limits of the Spains, and the diverse nations of the Gauls, and the haunts of 
the Britons--inaccessible to the Romans, but subjugated to Christ, and of the 
Sarmatians, and Dacians, and Germans, and Scythians, and of many remote nations, 
and of provinces and islands many, to us unknown, and which we can scarce 
enumerate? In all which places the name of the Christ who is already come 
reigns, as of Him before whom the gates of all cities have been opened, and to 
whom none are closed, before whom iron bars have been crumbled, and brazen gates 
opened. Although there be withal a spiritual sense to be affixed to these 
expressions,--that the hearts of individuals, blockaded in various ways by the 
devil, are unbarred by the faith of Christ,--still they have been evidently 
fulfilled, inasmuch as in all these places dwells the "people" of the Name of 
Christ. For who could have reigned over all nations but Christ, God's Son, who 
was ever announced as destined to reign over all to eternity? For if Solomon 
"reigned," why, it was within the confines of Judea merely: "from Beersheba unto 
Dan" the boundaries of his kingdom are marked. If, moreover, Darius "reigned" 
over the Babylonians and Parthians, he had not power over all nations; if 
Pharaoh, or whoever succeeded him in his hereditary kingdom, over the Egyptians, 
in that country merely did he possess his kingdom's dominion; if Nebuchadnezzar 
with his petty kings, "from India unto Ethiopia" he had his kingdom's 
boundaries; if Alexander the Macedonian he did not hold more than universal 
Asia, and other regions, after he had quite conquered them; if the Germans, to 
this day they are not suffered to cross their own limits; the Britons are shut 
within the circuit of their own ocean; the nations of the Moors, and the 
barbarism of the Gaetulians, are blockaded by the Romans, lest they exceed the 
confines of their own regions. What shall I say of the Romans themselves, who 
fortify their own empire with garrisons of their own legions, nor can extend the 
might of their kingdom beyond these nations? But Christ's Name is extending 
everywhere, believed everywhere, worshipped by all the above-enumerated nations, 
reigning everywhere, adored everywhere, conferred equally everywhere upon all. 
No king, with Him, finds greater favour, no barbarian lesser joy; no dignities 
or pedigrees enjoy distinctions of merit; to all He is equal, to all King, to 
all Judge, to all "God and Lord." Nor would you hesitate to believe what we 
asseverate, since you see it taking place. 
CHAP. VIII.--OF THE TIMES OF CHRIST'S BIRTH AND PASSION, AND OF 
JERUSALEM'S DESTRUCTION.
Accordingly the times must be inquired into of the predicted and future 
nativity of the Christ, and of His passion, and of the extermination of the city 
of Jerusalem, that is, its devastation. For Daniel says, that "both the holy 
city and the holy place are exterminated together with the coming Leader, and 
that the pinnacle is destroyed unto ruin." And so the times of the coming 
Christ, the Leader, must be inquired into, which we shall trace in Daniel; and, 
after computing them, shall prove Him to be come, even on the ground of the 
times prescribed, and of competent signs and operations of His. 
Which matters we prove, again, on the ground of the consequences which were 
ever announced as to follow His advent; in order that we may believe all to have 
been as well fulfilled as foreseen. 
In such wise, therefore, did Daniel predict concerning Him, as to show both 
when and in what time He was to set the nations free; and how, after the passion 
of the Christ, that city had to be exterminated. For he says thus: "In the first 
year under Darius, son of Ahasuerus, of the seed of the Medes, who reigned over 
the kingdom of the Chaldees, I Daniel understood in the books the number of the 
years. ... And while I was yet speaking in my prayer, behold, the man Gabriel, 
whom I saw in the vision in the beginning, flying; and he touched me, as it 
were, at the hour of the evening sacrifice, and made me understand, and spake 
with me, and said, Daniel I am now come out to imbue thee with understanding; in 
the beginning of thy supplication went out a word. And I am come to announce to 
thee, because thou art a man 159 
of desires; and ponder thou on the word, and understand in the vision. 
Seventy hebdomads have been abridged upon thy commonalty, and upon the holy 
city, until delinquency be made inveterate, and sins sealed, and righteousness 
obtained by entreaty, and righteousness eternal introduced; and in order that 
vision and prophet may be sealed, and an holy one of holy ones anointed. And 
thou shalt know, and thoroughly see, and understand, from the going forth of a 
word for restoring and rebuilding Jerusalem unto the Christ, the Leader, 
hebdomads (seven and an half, and) lxii and an half: and it shall convert, and 
shall be built into height and entrenchment, and the times shall be renewed: and 
after these lxii hebdomads shall the anointing be exterminated, and shall not 
be; and the city and the holy place shall he exterminate together with the 
Leader, who is making His advent; and they shall be cut short as in a deluge, 
until (the) end of a war, which shall be cut short unto ruin. And he shall 
confirm a testament in many. In one hebdomad and the half of the hebdomad shall 
be taken away my sacrifice and libation, and in the holy place the execration of 
devastation, (and) until the end of (the) time consummation shall be given with 
regard to this devastation." 
Observe we, therefore, the limit,--how, in truth, he predicts that there are 
to be lxx hebdomads, within which if they receive Him, "it shall be built into 
height and entrenchment, and the times shall be renewed." But God, foreseeing 
what was to be--that they will not merely not receive Him, but will both 
persecute and deliver Him to death--both recapitulated, and said, that in lx and 
ii and an half of an hebdomad He is born, and an holy one of holy ones is 
anointed; but that when vii hebdomads and an half were fulfilling, He had to 
suffer, and the holy city had to be exterminated after one and an half 
hebdomad--whereby namely, the seven and an half hebdomads have been completed. 
For he says thus: "And the city and the holy place to be exterminated together 
with the leader who is to come; and they shall be cut short as in a deluge; and 
he shall destroy the pinnacle unto ruin." Whence, therefore, do we showy that 
the Christ came within the lxii and an half hebdomads? We shall count, moreover, 
from the first year of Darius, as at this particular time is shown to Daniel 
this particular vision; for he says, "And understand and conjecture that at the 
completion of thy word I make thee these answers." Whence we are bound to 
compute from the first year of Darius, when Daniel saw this vision. 
Let us see, therefore, how the years are filled up until the advent of the 
Christ:- For Darius reigned . . xviiii years. 
Artaxerxes reigned . . xl and i years. 
Then King Ochus (who is also called Cyrus) reigned . xxiiii years. 
Argus ....one year. 
Another Darius, who is also named Melas, ...xxi years. 
Alexander the Macedonian, .xii years. 
Then, after Alexander,who had reigned over both Medes and Persians, whom he 
had reconquered, and had established his kingdom firmly in Alexandria, when 
withal he called that (city) by his own name; after him reigned, (there, in 
Alexandria,) 
Soter,. . . . .xxxv years. 
To whom succeeds Philadelphus, reigning xxx and viii years. 
To him succeeds Euergetes, .xxv years. 
Then Philopator . . .xvii years 
After him Epiphanes, . . xxiiii years. 
Then another Euergetes, . . .xxviiii years. 
Then another Soter, . . . .xxxviii years. 
Ptolemy . . . .xxxvii years. 
Cleopatra, . . .xx years v months (20 5-12). 
Yet again Cleopatra reigned joint ly with Augustus . xiii years (13.) 
After Cleopatra, Augus tus reigned other . xliii years. 
For all the years of the empire of Augustus were lvi years. 
Let us see, moreover, how in the forty-first year of the empire of Augustus, 
when he has been reigning for xx and viii years after the death of Cleopatra, 
the Christ is born. (And the same Augustus survived, after Christ is born, xv 
years; and the remaining times of years to the day of the birth of Christ will 
160 
bring us to the xl first year, which is the xx and viiith of Augustus after 
the death of Cleopatra.) There are, (then,) made up cccxxx and vii years, v 
months: (whence are filled up lxii hebdomads and an half: which make up 
ccccxxxvii years, vi months:) on the day of the birth of Christ. And (then) 
"righteousness eternal" was manifested, and "an Holy One of holy ones was 
anointed"--that is, Christ--and "sealed was vision and prophet," and "sins" were 
remitted, which, through faith in the name of Christ, are washed away for all 
who believe on Him. But what does he mean by saying that "vision and prophecy 
are sealed?" That all prophets ever announced of Him that He was to come and had 
to suffer. Therefore, since the prophecy was fulfilled through His advent, for 
that reason he said that "vision and prophecy were sealed;" inasmuch as He is 
the signet of all prophets, fulfilling all things which in days bygone they had 
announced of Him. For after the advent of Christ and His passion there is no 
longer "vision or prophet" to announce Him as to come. In short, if this is not 
so, let the Jews exhibit, subsequently to Christ, any volumes of prophets, 
visible miracles wrought by any angels, (such as those) which in bygone days the 
patriarchs saw until the advent of Christ, who is now come; since which event 
"sealed is vision and prophecy," that is, confirmed. And justly does the 
evangelist write, "The law and the prophets (were) until John" the Baptist. For, 
on Christ's being baptized, that is, on His sanctifying the waters in His own 
baptism, all the plenitude of bygone spiritual grace-gifts ceased in Christ, 
sealing as He did all vision and prophecies, which by His advent He fulfilled. 
Whence most firmly does he assert that His advent "seals visions and prophecy." 
Accordingly, showing, (as we have done,) both the number of the years, and 
the time of the lx two and an half fulfilled hebdomads, on completion of which, 
(we have shown) that Christ is come, that is, has been born, let us see what 
(mean) other "vii and an half hebdomads," which have been subdivided in the 
abscision of the former hebdomads; (let us see, namely,) in what event they have 
been fulfilled:- For, after Augustus who survived after the birth of Christ, are 
made up . xv years. 
To whom succeeded Tibe rius Caesar, and held the empire . . xx years, vii 
months, xxviii days (20 etc.). 
(In the fiftieth year of his empire Christ suffered. 
being about xxx years of age when he suffered.) 
Again Caius Caesar, also called Caligula, . . iii years, viii months, xiii 
days (3 etc.). 
Nero Caesar, . . xi years, ix months, xiii days (11 etc.). 
Galba . . . . vii months,vi days. (7 etc.). 
Otho . . . . iii days. 
Vitellius, . . . viii mos., xxvii days (8 mos.) 
Vespasian, in the first year of his empire, subdues the Jews in war; and 
there are made lii years, vi months. For he reigned xi years. And thus, in the 
day of their storming, the Jews fulfilled the lxx hebdomads predicted in Daniel. 

Therefore, when these times also were completed, and the Jews subdued, there 
afterwards ceased in that place "libations and sacrifices," which thenceforward 
have not been able to be in that place celebrated; for "the unction," too, was 
"exterminated" in that place after the passion of Christ. For it had been 
predicted that the unction should be exterminated in that place; as in the 
Psalms it is prophesied, "They exterminated my hands and feet." And the 
suffering of this "extermination" was perfected within the times of the lxx 
hebdomads, under Tiberius Caesar, in the consulate of Rubellius Geminus and 
Fufius Geminus, in the month of March, at the times of the passover, on the 
eighth day before the calends of April, on the first day of unleavened bread, on 
which they slew the lamb at even, just as had been enjoined by Moses. 
Accordingly, all the synagogue of Israel did slay Him, saying to Pilate, when he 
was desirous to dismiss Him, "His blood be upon us, and upon our children;" and, 
"If thou dismiss him, thou art not a friend of Caesar;" in order that all things 
might be fulfilled which had been written of Him. 
CHAP.IX.--OF THE PROPHECIES OF THE BIRTH AND ACHIEVEMENTS OF CHRIST
Begin we, therefore, to prove that the BIRTH 
161 
of Christ was announced by prophets; as Isaiah (e.g.,) foretells, "Hear ye, 
house of David; no petty contest have ye with men, since God is proposing a 
struggle. Therefore God Himself will give you a sign; Behold, the virgin shall 
conceive, and bear a son, and ye shall call his name Emmanuel" (which is, 
interpreted, "God with us"): "butter and honey shall he eat;": "since, ere the 
child learn to call father or mother, he shall receive the power of Damascus and 
the spoils of Samaria, in opposition to the king of the Assyrians." 
Accordingly the Jews say: Let us challenge that prediction of Isaiah, and let 
us institute a comparison whether, in the case of the Christ who is already 
come, there be applicable to Him, firstly, the name which Isaiah foretold, and 
(secondly) the signs of it which he announced of Him. 
Well, then, Isaiah foretells that it behoves Him to be called Emmanuel; and 
that subsequently He is to take the power of Damascus and the spoils of Samaria, 
in opposition to the king of the Assyrians. "Now," say they, "that (Christ) of 
yours, who is come, neither was called by that name, nor engaged in warfare." 
But we, on the contrary, have thought they ought to be admonished to recall to 
mind the context of this passage as well. For subjoined is withal the 
interpretation of Emmanuel--"God with us"--in order that you may regard not the 
sound only of the name, but the sense too. For the Hebrew sound, which is 
Emmanuel, has an interpretation, which is, God with us. Inquire, then, whether 
this speech, "God with us" (which is Emmanuel), be commonly applied to Christ 
ever since Christ's light has dawned, and I think you will not deny it. For they 
who out of Judaism believe in Christ, ever since their believing on Him, do, 
whenever they shall wish to say Emmanuel, signify that God is with us: and thus 
it is agreed that He who was ever predicted as Emmanuel is already come, because 
that which Emmanuel signifies is come--that is, "God with us." Equally are they 
led by the sound of the name when they so understand "the power of Damascus," 
and "the spoils of Samaria," and "the kingdom of the Assyrians," as if they 
portended Christ as a warrior; not observing that Scripture premises, "since, 
ere the child learn to call father or mother, he shall receive the power of 
Damascus and the spoils of Samaria, in opposition to the king of the Assyrians." 
For the first step is to look at the demonstration of His age, to see whether 
the age there indicated can possibly exhibit the Christ as already a man, not to 
say a general. Forsooth, by His babyish cry the infant would summon men to arms, 
and would give the signal of war not with clarion, but with rattle, and point 
out the foe, not from His charger's back or from a rampart, but from the back or 
neck of His suckler and nurse, and thus subdue Damascus and Samaria in place of 
the breast. (It is another matter if, among you, infants rush out into 
battle,--oiled first, I suppose, to dry in the sun, and then armed with satchels 
and rationed on butter,--who are to know how to lance sooner than how to 
lacerate the bosom!) Certainly, if nature nowhere allows this,-- (namely,) to 
serve as a soldier before developing into manhood, to take "the power of 
Damascus" before knowing your father,--it follows that the pronouncement is 
visibly figurative. "But again," say they, "nature suffers not a 'virgin' to be 
a parent; and yet the prophet must be believed." And deservedly so; for he 
bespoke credit for a thing incredible, by saying that it was to be a sign. 
"Therefore," he says, "shall A SIGN be given you. Behold, a virgin shall 
conceive in womb, and bear a son." But a sign from God, unless it had consisted 
in some portentous novelty, would not have appeared a sign. In a word, if, when 
you are anxious to cast any down from (a belief in) this divine prediction, or 
to convert whoever are simple, you have the audacity to lie, as if the Scripture 
contained (the announcement), that not "a virgin," but "a young female," was to 
conceive and bring forth; you are refuted even by this fact, that a daily 
occurrence--the pregnancy and parturition of a young female, namely--cannot 
possibly seem anything of a sign. And the setting before us, then, of a 
virgin-mother is deservedly believed to be a sign; but not equally so a 
warrior-infant. For there would not in this case again be involved the question 
of a sign; but, the sign of a novel birth having been awarded, the next step 
after the sign is, that there is enunciated a different ensuing ordering of the 
infant, who is to eat "honey and butter." Nor is this, of course, for a sign. It 
is natural to infancy. But that he 162 
is to receives "the power of Damascus and the spoils of Samaria in opposition 
to the king of the Assyrians," this is a wondrous sign. Keep to the limit of 
(the infant's) age, and inquire into the sense of the prediction; nay, rather, 
repay to truth what you are unwilling to credit her with, and the prophecy 
becomes intelligible by the relation of its fulfilment. Let those Eastern magi 
be believed, dowering with gold and incense the infancy of Christ as a king; and 
the infant has received "the power of Damascus" without battle and arms. For, 
besides the fact that it is known to all that the "power"--for that is the 
"strength"--of the East is wont to abound in gold and odours, certain it is that 
the divine Scriptures regard "gold" as constituting the "power" also of all 
other nations; as it says through Zechariah: "And Judah keepeth guard at 
Jerusalem, and shall amass all the vigour of the surrounding peoples, gold and 
silver." For of this gift of "gold" David likewise says, "And to Him shall be 
given of the gold of Arabia;" and again, "The kings of the Arabs and Saba shall 
bring Him gifts." For the East, on the one hand, generally held the magi (to be) 
kings; and Damascus, on the other hand, used formerly to be reckoned to Arabia 
before it was transferred into Syrophoenicia on the division of the Syrias: the 
"power" whereof Christ then "received" in receiving its ensigns,--gold, to wit, 
and odours. "The spoils," moreover, "of Samaria" (He received in receiving) the 
magi themselves, who, on recognising Him, and honouring Him with gifts, and 
adoring Him on bonded knee as Lord and King, on the evidence of the guiding and 
indicating star, became "the spoils of Samaria," that is, of idolatry--by 
believing, namely, on Christ. For (Scripture) denoted idolatry by the name of 
"Samaria," Samaria being ignominious on the score of idolatry; for she had at 
that time revolted from God under King Jeroboam. For this, again, is no novelty 
to the Divine Scriptures, figuratively to use a transference of name grounded on 
parallelism of crimes. For it calls your rulers "rulers of Sodore," and your 
people the "people of Gomorrha," when those dries had already long been extinct. 
And elsewhere it says, through a prophet, to the people of Israel, "Thy father 
(was) an Amorite, and thy mother an Hittite;" of whose race they were not 
begotten, but (were called their sons) by reason of their consimilarity in 
impiety, whom of old (God) had called His own sons through Isaiah the prophet: 
"I have generated and exalted sons." So, too, Egypt is sometimes understood to 
mean the whole world in that prophet, on the count of superstition and 
malediction. So, again, Babylon, in our own John, is a figure of the city Rome, 
as being equally great and proud of her sway, and triumphant over the saints. On 
this wise, accordingly, (Scripture) entitled the magi also with the appellation 
of "Samaritans,"--"despoiled" (of that) which they had had in common with the 
Samaritans, as we have said--idolatry in opposition to the Lord. (It adds), "in 
opposition," moreover, "to the king of the Assyrians,"--in opposition to the 
devil, who to this hour thinks himself to be reigning, if he detrudes the saints 
from the religion of God. 
Moreover, this our interpretation will be supported while (we find that) 
elsewhere as well the Scriptures designate Christ a warrior, as we gather from 
the names of certain weapons, and words of that kind. But by a comparison of the 
remaining senses the Jews shall be convicted. "Gird thee," says David, "the 
sword upon the thigh." But what do you read above concerning the Christ? 
"Blooming in beauty above the sons of men; grace is outpoured in thy lips." But 
very absurd it is if he was complimenting on the bloom of his beauty and the 
grace of his lips, one whom he was girding for war with a sword; of whom he 
proceeds subjunctively to say, "Outstretch and prosper, advance and reign!" And 
he has added, "because of thy lenity and justice." Who will ply the sword 
without practising the contraries to lenity and justice; that is, guile, and 
asperity, and injustice, proper (of course) to the business of battles? See we, 
then, whether that which has another action be not another sword,--that is, the 
Divine word of God, doubly sharpened with the two Testaments of the ancient law 
and the new law; sharpened by the equity of its own wisdom; rendering to each 
one according to his own action. Law 163 
ful, then, it was for the Christ of God to be precinct, in the Psalms, 
without warlike achievements, with the figurative sword of the word of God; to 
which sword is congruous the predicated "bloom," together with the "grace of the 
lips;" with which sword He was then "girt upon the thigh," in the eye of David, 
when He was announced as about to come to earth in obedience to God the Father's 
decree. "The greatness of thy right hand, he says, "shall conduct thee"--the 
virtue to wit, of the spiritual grace from which the recognition of Christ is 
deduced. "Thine arrows," he says, "are sharp,"--God's everywhere-flying precepts 
(arrows) threatening the exposure of every heart, and carrying compunction and 
transfixion to each conscience: "peoples shall fall beneath thee,"--of course, 
in adoration. Thus mighty in war and weapon-bearing is Christ; thus will He 
"receive the spoils," not of "Samaria" alone, but of all nations as well. 
Acknowledge that His "spoils" are figurative whose weapons you have learnt to be 
allegorical. And thus, so far, the Christ who is come was not a warrior, because 
He was not predicted as such by Isaiah. 
"But if the Christ," say they, "who is believed to be coming is not called 
Jesus, why is he who is come called Jesus Christ?" Well, each name will meet in 
the Christ of God, in whom is found likewise the appellation Jesus. Learn the 
habitual character of your error. In the course of the appointing of a successor 
to Moses, Oshea the son of Nun is certainly transferred from his pristine name, 
and begins to be called Jesus. Certainly, you say. This we first assert to have 
been a figure of the future. For, because Jesus Christ was to introduce the 
second people (which is composed of us nations, lingering deserted in the world 
aforetime) into the land of promise, "flowing with milk and honey" (that is, 
into the possession of eternal life, than which nought is sweeter); and this had 
to come about, not through Moses (that is, not through the Law's discipline), 
but through Joshua (that is, through the new law's grace), after our 
circumcision with "a knife of rock" (that is, with Christ's precepts, for Christ 
is in many ways and figures predicted as a rock); therefore the man who was 
being prepared to act as images of this sacrament was inaugurated under the 
figure of the Lord's name, even so as to be named Jesus. For He who ever spake 
to Moses was the Son of God Himself; who, too, was always seen. For God the 
Father none ever saw, and lived. And accordingly it is agreed that the Son of 
God Himself spake to Moses, and said to the people, "Behold, I send mine angel 
before thy"--that is, the people's--"face, to guard thee on the march, and to 
introduce thee into the land which I have prepared thee: attend to him, and be 
not disobedient to him; for he hath not escaped thy notice, since my name is 
upon him." For Joshua was to introduce the people into the land of promise, not 
Moses. Now He called him an "angel," on account of the magnitude of the mighty 
deeds which he was to achieve (which mighty deeds Joshua the son of Nun did, and 
you yourselves read), and on account of his office of prophet announcing (to 
wit) the divine will; just as withal the Spirit, speaking in the person of the 
Father, calls the forerunner of Christ, John, a future "angel," through the 
prophet: "Behold, I send mine angel before Thy"--that is, Christ's--"face, who 
shall prepare Thy way before Thee." Nor is it a novel practice to the Holy 
Spirit to call those "angels" whom God has appointed as ministers of His power. 
For the same John is called not merely an "angel" of Christ, but withal a "lamp" 
shining before Christ: for David predicts, "I have prepared the lamp for my 
Christ;" and him Christ Himself, coming "to fulfil the prophets," called so to 
the Jews. "He was," He says, "the burning and shining lamp;" as being he who not 
merely "prepared His ways in the desert," but withal, by pointing out "the Lamb 
of God," illumined the minds of men by his heralding, so that they understood 
Him 164 
to be that Lamb whom Moses was wont to announce as destined to suffer. Thus, 
too, (was the son of Nun called) JOSHUA, on account of the future mystery 
of his name: for that name (He who spake with Moses) confirmed as His own 
which Himself had conferred on him, because He had bidden him thenceforth be 
called, not "angel" nor "Oshea," but "Joshua." Thus, therefore, each name is 
appropriate to the Christ of God--that He should be called Jesus as well (as 
Christ). 
And that the virgin of whom it behoved Christ to be born (as we have above 
mentioned) must derive her lineage of the seed of David, the prophet in 
subsequent passages evidently asserts. "And there shall be born," he says, "a 
rod from the root of Jesse"--which rod is Mary--"and a flower shall ascend from 
his root: and there shall rest upon him the Spirit of God, the spirit of wisdom 
and understanding, the spirit of discernment and piety, the spirit of counsel 
and truth; the spirit of God's fear shall fill Him." For to none of men was the 
universal aggregation of spiritual credentials appropriate, except to Christ; 
paralleled as He is to a "flower" by reason of glory, by reason of grace; but 
accounted "of the root of Jesse," whence His origin is to be deduced,--to wit, 
through Mary. For He was from the native soil of Bethlehem, and from the house 
of David; as, among the Romans, Mary is described in the census, of whom is born 
Christ. 
I demand, again--granting that He who was ever predicted by prophets as 
destined to come out of Jesse's race, was withal to exhibit all humility, 
patience, and tranquillity--whether He be come? Equally so (in this case as in 
the former), the man who is shown to bear that character will be the very Christ 
who is come. For of Him the prophet says, "A man set in a plague, and knowing 
how to bear infirmity;" who "was led as a sheep for a victim; and, as a lamb 
before him who sheareth him, opened not His mouth." If He "neither did contend 
nor shout, nor was His voice heard abroad," who "crushed not the bruised 
reed"--Israel's faith, who "quenched not the burning flax"--that is, the 
momentary glow of the Gentiles--but made it shine more by the rising of His own 
light,--He can be none other than He who was predicted. The action, therefore, 
of the Christ who is come must be examined by being placed side by side with the 
rule of the Scriptures. For, if I mistake not, we find Him distinguished by a 
twofold operation,--that of preaching and that of power. 
Now, let each count be disposed of summarily. Accordingly, let us work out 
the order we have set down, teaching that Christ was announced as a preacher; 
as, through Isaiah: "Cry out," he says, "in vigour, and spare not; lift up, as 
with a trumpet, thy voice, and announce to my commonalty their crimes, and to 
the house of Jacob their sins. Me from day to day they seek, and to learn my 
ways they covet, as a people which hath done righteousness, and hath not 
forsaken the judgment of God," and so forth: that, moreover, He was to do acts 
of power from the Father: "Behold, our God will deal retributive judgment; 
Himself will come and save us: then shall the infirm be healed, and the eyes of 
the blind shall see, and the ears of the deaf shall hear, and the mutes' tongues 
shall be loosed, and the lame shall leap as an hart," and so on; which works not 
even you deny that Christ did, inasmuch as you were wont to say that, "on 
account of the works ye stoned Him not, but because He did them on the 
Sabbaths." 
CHAP. X.--CONCERNING THE PASSION OF CHRIST, AND ITS OLD TESTAMENT 
PREDICTIONS AND ADUMBRATIONS.
Concerning the last step, plainly, of His passion you raise a doubt; 
affirming that the passion of the cross was not predicted with reference to 
Christ, and urging, besides, that it is not credible that God should have 
exposed His own Son to that kind of death; because Himself said, "Cursed is 
every one who shall have hung on a tree." But the reason of the case 
antecedently explains the sense of this malediction; for He says in Deuteronomy: 
"If, moreover, (a man) shall have been (involved) in some sin incurring the 
judgment of death, and shall die, and ye shall suspend him on a tree, his body 
shall not remain on the tree, but with burial ye shall bury him on the very day; 
because cursed by God is every one who shall have been suspended on a tree; and 
ye shall not defile the land which the Lord thy God shall give thee for (thy) 
lot." Therefore He did not maledictively adjudge Christ to this passion, but 
drew a distinction, that whoever, in any sin, had incurred the judgment of 
death, and died suspended on a 165 
tree, he should be "cursed by God," because his own sins were the cause of 
his suspension on the tree. On the other hand, Christ, who spoke not guile from 
His mouth, and who exhibited all righteousness and humility, not only (as we 
have above recorded it predicted of Him) was not exposed to that kind of death 
for his own deserts, but (was so exposed) in order that what was predicted by 
the prophets as destined to come upon Him through your means might be fulfilled; 
just as, in the Psalms, the Spirit Himself of Christ was already singing, 
saying, "They were repaying me evil for good;" and, "What I had not seized I was 
then paying in full;" They exterminated my hands and feet;" and, "They put into 
my drink gall, and in my thirst they slaked me with vinegar;" "Upon my vesture 
they did cast (the) lot;" just as the other (outrages) which you were to commit 
on Him were foretold,--all which He, actually and thoroughly suffering, suffered 
not for any evil action of His own, but "that the Scriptures from the mouth of 
the prophets might be fulfilled." 
And, of course, it had been meet that the mystery of the passion itself 
should be figuratively set forth in predictions; and the more incredible (that 
mystery), the more likely to be "a stumbling-stone," if it had been nakedly 
predicted; and the more magnificent, the more to be adumbrated, that the 
difficulty of its intelligence might seek (help from) the grace of God. 
Accordingly, to begin with, Isaac, when led by his father as a victim, and 
himself bearing his own "wood," was even at that early period pointing to 
Christ's death; conceded, as He was, as a victim by the Father; carrying, as He 
did, the "wood" of His own passion. 
Joseph, again, himself was made a figure of Christ in this point alone (to 
name no more, not to delay my own course), that he suffered persecution at the 
hands of his brethren, and was sold into Egypt, on account of the favour of God; 
just as Christ was sold by Israel-- (and therefore,) "according to the flesh," 
by His "brethren"--when He is betrayed by Judas. For Joseph is withal blest by 
his father after this form: "His glory (is that) of a bull; his horns, the horns 
of an unicorn; on them shall he toss nations alike unto the very extremity of 
the earth." Of course no one-horned rhinoceros was there pointed to, nor any 
two-horned minotaur. But Christ was therein signified: "bull," by reason of each 
of His two characters,--to some fierce, as Judge; to others gentle, as Saviour; 
whose "horns" were to be the extremities of the cross. For even in a ship's 
yard--which is part of a cross--this is the name by which the extremities are 
called; while the central pole of the mast is a "unicorn." By this power, in 
fact, of the cross, and in this manner horned, He does now, on the one hand, 
"toss" universal nations through faith, wafting them away from earth to heaven; 
and will one day, on the other, "toss" them through judgment, casting them down 
from heaven to earth. 
He, again, will be the" bull" elsewhere too in the same scripture. When Jacob 
pronounced a blessing on Simeon and Levi, he prophesies of the scribes and 
Pharisees; for from them is derived their origin. For (his blessing) interprets 
spiritually thus: "Simeon and Levi perfected iniquity out of their sect," 
--whereby, to wit, they persecuted Christ: "into their counsel come not my 
soul! and upon their station rest not my heart! because in their indignation 
they slew men"--that is, prophets--"and in their concupiscence they hamstrung a 
bull!"--that is, Christ, whom--after the slaughter of prophets--they slew, and 
exhausted their savagery by transfixing His sinews with nails. Else it is idle 
if, after the murder already committed by them, he upbraids others, and not 
them, with butchery. 
But, to come now to Moses, why, I wonder, did he merely at the time when 
Joshua was battling against Amalek, pray sitting with hands expanded, when, in 
circumstances so critical, he ought rather, surely, to have com 166 
mended his prayer by knees bended, and hands beating his breast, and a face 
prostrate on the ground; except it was that there, where the name of the Lord 
Jesus was the theme of speech--destined as He was to enter the lists one day 
singly against the devil--the figure of the cross was also necessary, (that 
figure) through which Jesus was to win the victory? Why, again, did the same 
Moses, after the prohibition of any "likeness of anything," set forth a brazen 
serpent, placed on a "tree," in a hanging posture, for a spectacle of healing to 
Israel, at the time when, after their idolatry, they were suffering 
extermination by serpents, except that in this case he was exhibiting the Lord's 
cross on which the "serpent" the devil was "made a show of," and, for every one 
hurt by such snakes--that is, his angels--on turning intently from the peccancy 
of sins to the sacraments of Christ's cross, salvation was outwrought? For he 
who then gazed upon that (cross) was freed from the bite of the serpents. 
Come, now, if you have read in the utterance of the prophet in the Psalms, 
"God hath reigned from the tree," I wait to hear what you understand thereby; 
for fear you may perhaps think some carpenter-king is signified, and not Christ, 
who has reigned from that time onward when he overcame the death which ensued 
from His passion of "the tree." 
Similarly, again, Isaiah says: "For a child is born to us, and to us is given 
a son." What novelty is that, unless he is speaking of the "Son" of God?--and 
one is born to us the beginning of whose government has been made "on His 
shoulder." What king in the world wears the ensign of his power on his shoulder, 
and does not bear either diadem on his head, or else sceptre in his hand, or 
else some mark of distinctive vesture? But the novel "King of ages," Christ 
Jesus, alone reared "on His shoulder" His own novel glory, and power, and 
sublimity,--the cross, to wit; that, according to the former prophecy, the Lord 
thenceforth "might reign from the tree." For of this tree likewise it is that 
God hints, through Jeremiah, that you would say, "Come, let us put wood into his 
bread, and let us wear him away out of the land of the living; and his name 
shall no more be remembered." Of course on His body that "wood" was put; for so 
Christ has revealed, calling His body "bread," whose body the prophet in bygone 
days announced under the term "bread." If you shall still seek for predictions 
of the Lord's cross, the twenty-first Psalm will at length be able to satisfy 
you, containing as it does the whole passion of Christ; singing, as He does, 
even at so early a date, His own glory. "They dug," He says, "my hands and 
feet"--which is the peculiar atrocity of the cross; and again when He implores 
the aid of the Father, "Save me," He says, out of the mouth of the lion"--of 
course, of death --"and from the horn of the unicorns my humility,"--from the 
ends, to wit, of the cross, as we have above shown; which cross neither David 
himself suffered, nor any of the kings of the Jews: that you may not think the 
passion of some other particular man is here prophesied than His who alone was 
so signally crucified by the People. 
Now, if the hardness of your heart shall persist in rejecting and deriding 
all these interpretations, we will prove that it may suffice that the death of 
the Christ had been prophesied, in order that, from the fact that the nature of 
the death had not been specified, it may be understood to have been affected by 
means of the cross and that the passion of the cross is not to be ascribed to 
any but Him whose death was constantly being predicted. For I 
desire to show, in one utterance of Isaiah, His death, and passion, and 
sepulture. "By the crimes," he says, "of my people was He led unto death; and I 
will give the evil for His sepulture, and the rich for His death, because He did 
not wickedness, nor was guile found in his mouth; and God willed to redeem His 
soul from death," and so forth. He says again, moreover: "His sepulture hath 
been taken away from the midst." For neither was He buried except He were dead, 
nor was His sepulture removed from the midst except through His resurrection. 
Finally, he subjoins: "Therefore He shall have many for an heritage, and of many 
shall He divide spoils:" who else (shall so do) but He who 167 
"was born," as we have above shown?--"in return for the fact that His soul 
was delivered unto death?" For, the cause of the favour accorded Him being 
shown,--in return, to wit, for the injury of a death which had to be 
recompensed,--it is likewise shown that He, destined to attain these rewards 
because of death, was to attain them after death--of course after resurrection. 
For that which happened at His passion, that mid-day grew dark, the prophet Amos 
announces, saying, "And it shall be," he says, "in that day, saith the Lord, the 
sun shall set at mid-day, and the day of light shall grow dark over the land: 
and I will convert your festive days into grief, and all your canticles into 
lamentation; and I will lay upon your loins sackcloth, and upon every head 
baldness; and I will make the grief like that for a beloved (son), and them that 
are with him like a day of mourning." For that you would do thus at the 
beginning of the first month of your new (years) even Moses prophesied, when he 
was foretelling that all the community of the sons of lsrael was to immolate at 
eventide a lamb, and were to eat this solemn sacrifice of this day (that is, of 
the passover of unleavened bread) with bitterness;" and added that "it was the 
passover of the Lord," that is, the passion of Christ. Which prediction was thus 
also fulfilled, that "on the first day of unleavened bread" you slew Christ; and 
(that the prophecies might be fulfilled) the day hasted to make an 
"eventide,"--that is, to cause darkness, which was made at mid-day; and thus 
"your festive days God converted into grief, and your canticles into 
lamentation." For after the passion of Christ there overtook you even captivity 
and dispersion, predicted before through the Holy Spirit. 
CHAP. XI.--FURTHER PROOFS, FROM EZEKIEL. SUMMARY OF THE PROPHETIC ARGUMENT 
THUS FAR.
For, again, it is for these deserts of yours that Ezekiel announces your ruin 
as about to come: and not only in this age--a ruin which has already 
befallen--but in the "day of retribution," which will be subsequent. From which 
ruin none will be freed but he who shall have been frontally sealed 
with the passion of the Christ whom you have rejected. For thus it is 
written: 
"And the Lord said unto me, Son of man, thou hast seen what the elders of 
Israel do, each one of them in darkness, each in a hidden bed-chamber: because 
they have said, The Lord seeth us not; the Lord hath derelinquished the earth. 
And He said unto me, Turn thee again, and thou shall see greater enormities 
which these do. And He introduced me unto the thresholds of the gate of the 
house of the Lord which looketh unto the north; and, behold, there, women 
sitting and bewailing Thammuz. And the Lord said unto me, Son of man, hast thou 
seen? Is the house of Judah moderate, to do the enormities which they have done? 
And yet thou art about to see greater affections of theirs. And He introduced me 
into the inner shrine of the house of the Lord; and, behold, on the thresholds 
of the house of the Lord, between the midst of the porch and between the midst 
of the altar, as it were twenty and five men have turned their backs unto the 
temple of the Lord, and their faces over against the east; these were adoring 
the sun. And He said unto me, Seest thou, son of man? Are such deeds trifles to 
the house of Judah, that they should do the enormities which these have done? 
because they have filled up (the measure of) 
their impieties, and, behold, are themselves, as it were, grimacing; I will 
deal with mine indignation, mine eye shall not spare, neither will I pity; they 
shall cry out unto mine ears with a loud voice, and I will not hear them, nay, I 
will not pity. And He cried into mine ears with a loud voice, saying, The 
vengeance of this city is at hand; and each one had vessels of extermination in 
his hand. And, behold, six men were coming toward the way of the high gate which 
was looking toward the north, and each one's double-axe of dispersion was in his 
hand: and one man in the midst of them, clothed with a garment reaching to the 
feet, and a girdle of sapphire about his loins: and they entered, and took their 
stand close to the brazen altar. And the glory of the God of Israel, which was 
over the house, in the open court of it, ascended from the cherubim: and the 
Lord called the man who was clothed with the garment reaching to the feet, who 
had upon his loins the girdle; and said unto him, 168 
Pass through the midst of Jerusalem, and write the sign Tau on the foreheads 
of the men who groan and grieve over all the enormities which are done in their 
midst. And while these things were doing, He said unto an hearer, Go ye after 
him into the city, and cut short; and spare not with your eyes, and pity not 
elder or youth or virgin; and little ones and women slay ye all, that they may 
be thoroughly wiped away; but all upon whom is the sign Tau approach ye not; and 
begin with my saints." Now the mystery of this "sign" was in various ways 
predicted; (a "sign") in which the foundation of life was forelaid for mankind; 
(a "sign") in which the Jews were not to believe: just as Moses beforetime kept 
on announcing in Exodus, saying, "Ye shall be ejected from the land into which 
ye shall enter; and in those nations ye shall not be able to rest: and there 
shall be instability of the prints of thy foot: and God shall give thee a 
wearying heart, and a pining soul, and failing eyes, that they see not: and thy 
life shall hang on the tree before thine eyes; and thou shalt not trust thy 
life." 
And so, since prophecy has been fulfilled through His advent--that is, 
through the nativity, which we have above commemorated, and the passion, which 
we have evidently explained--that is the reason withal why Daniel said, "Vision 
and prophet were sealed;" because Christ is the "signet" of all prophets, 
fulfilling all that had in days bygone been announced concerning Him: for, since 
His advent and personal passion, there is no longer "vision" or "prophet;" 
whence most emphatically he says that His advent "seals vision and prophecy." 
And thus, by showing "the number of the years, and the time of the lxii and an 
half fulfilled hebdomads," we have proved that at that specified time Christ 
came, that is, was born; and, (by showing the time) of the "seven and an half 
hebdomads," which are subdivided so as to be cut off from the former hebdomads, 
within which times we have shown Christ to have suffered, and by the consequent 
conclusion of the "lxx hebdomads," and the extermination of the city, (we have 
proved) that "sacrifice and unction" thenceforth cease. 
Sufficient it is thus far, on these points, to have meantime traced the 
course of the ordained path of Christ, by which He is proved to be such as He 
used to be announced, even on the ground of that agreement of Scriptures, which 
has enabled us to speak out, in opposition to the Jews, on the ground of the 
prejudgment of the major part. For let them not question or deny the writings we 
produce; that the fact also that things which were foretold as destined to 
happen after Christ are being recognised as fulfilled may make it impossible for 
them to deny (these writings) to be on a par with divine Scriptures. Else, 
unless He were come after whom the things which were wont to be announced had to 
be accomplished, would such as have been completed be proved? 
CHAP. XII.--FURTHER PROOFS FROM THE CALLING OF THE GENTILES.
Look at the universal nations thenceforth emerging from the vortex of human 
error to the Lord God the Creator and His Christ; and if you dare to deny that 
this was prophesied, forthwith occurs to you the promise of the Father in the 
Psalms, which says, "My Son art Thou; to-day have I begotten Thee. Ask of Me, 
and I will give Thee Gentiles as Thine heritage, and as Thy possession the 
bounds of the earth." For you will not be able to affirm that "son" to be David 
rather than Christ; or the "bounds of the earth" to have been promised rather to 
David, who reigned within the single (country of) Judea, than to Christ, who has 
already taken captive the whole orb with the faith of His gospel; as He says 
through Isaiah: "Behold, I have given Thee for a covenant of my family, for a 
light of Gentiles, that Thou mayst open the eyes of the blind"--of course, such 
as err--"to outloose from bonds the bound"--that is, to free them from 
sins--"and from the house of prison"--that is, of death--"such as sit in 
darkness"--of ignorance, to wit. And if these blessings accrue through Christ, 
they will not have been prophesied of another than Him through whom we consider 
them to have been accomplished. 
CHAP. XIII.--ARGUMENT FROM THE DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM AND DESOLATION OF 
JUDEA.
Therefore, since the sons of Israel affirm 
that we err in receiving the Christ, who is already come, let us put in a 
demurrer against them out of the Scriptures themselves, to the effect that the 
Christ who was the theme of prediction is come; albeit by the times of Daniel's 
prediction we have proved that the Christ is come already who was the theme of 
announcement. Now it behoved Him to be born in Bethlehem of Judah. For thus it 
is written in the prophet: "And thou, Bethlehem, are not the least in the 
leaders of Judah: for out of thee shall issue a Leader who shall feed my People 
lsrael." But if hitherto he has not been born, what "leader" was it who was thus 
announced as to proceed from the tribe of Judah, out of Bethlehem? For it 
behoves him to proceed from the tribe of Judah and from Bethlehem. But we 
perceive that now none of the race of Israel has remained in Bethlehem; and (so 
it has been) ever since the interdict was issued forbidding any one of the Jews 
to linger in the confines of the very district, in order that this prophetic 
utterance also should be perfectly fulfilled: "Your land is desert, your cities 
burnt up by fire,"--that is, (he is foretelling) what will have happened to them 
in time of war "your region strangers shall eat up in your sight, and it shall 
be desert and subverted by alien peoples." And in another place it is thus said 
through the prophet: "The King with His glory ye shall see,"--that is, Christ, 
doing deeds of power in the glory of God the Father; "and your eyes shall see 
the land from afar,"--which is what you do, being prohibited, in reward of your 
deserts, since the storming of Jerusalem, to enter into your land; it is 
permitted you merely to see it with your eyes from afar: "your soul," he says, 
"shall meditate terror,"--namely, at the time when they suffered the ruin of 
themselves. How, therefore, will a "leader" be born from Judea, and how far will 
he "proceed from Bethlehem," as the divine volumes of the prophets do plainly 
announce; since none at all is left there to this day of (the house of) Israel, 
of whose stock Christ could be born? 
Now, if (according to the Jews) He is hitherto not come, when He begins to 
come whence will He be anointed? For the Law enjoined that, in captivity, it was 
not lawful for the unction of the royal chrism to be compounded. But, if there 
is no longer "unction" there as Daniel prophesied (for he says, "Unction shall 
be exterminated"), it follows that they no longer have it, because neither have 
they a temple where was the "horn" from which kings were wont to be anointed. 
If, then, there is no unction, whence shall be anointed the "leader" who shall 
be born in Bethlehem? or how shall he proceed "from Bethlehem," seeing that of 
the seed of Israel none at all exists in Bethlehem. 
A second time, in fact, let us show that Christ is already come, (as 
foretold) through the prophets, and has suffered, and is already received back 
in the heavens, and thence is to come accordingly as the predictions prophesied. 
For, after His advent, we read, according to Daniel, that the city itself had to 
be exterminated; and we recognise that so it has befallen. For the Scripture 
says thus, that "the city and the holy place are simultaneously exterminated 
together with the leader,"--undoubtedly (that Leader) who was to proceed "from 
Bethlehem," and from the tribe of "Judah." Whence, again, it is manifest that 
"the city must simultaneously be exterminated" at the time when its "Leader" had 
to suffer in it, (as foretold) through the Scriptures of the prophets, who say: 
"I have outstretched my hands the whole day unto a People contumacious and 
gainsaying Me, who walketh in a way not good, but after their own sins." And in 
the Psalms, David says: "They exterminated my hands and feet: they counted all 
my bones; they themselves, moreover, contemplated and saw me, and in my thirst 
slaked me with vinegar." These things David did not suffer, so as to seem justly 
to have spoken of himself; but the Christ who was crucified. Moreover, the 
"hands and feet," are not "exterminated," except His who is suspended on a 
"tree." Whence, again, David said that "the Lord would reign from the tree:" for 
elsewhere, too, the prophet predicts the fruit of this "tree," saying "The earth 
hath given her blessings,"--of course that virgin-earth, not yet irrigated with 
rains, nor fertilized by 170 
showers, out of which man was of yore first formed, out of which now Christ 
through theflesh has been born of a virgin; "and the tree," he says, "hath 
brought his fruit,"--not that "tree" in paradise which yielded death to the 
protoplasts, but the "tree" of the passion of Christ, whence life, hanging, was 
by you not believed! For this "tree" in a mystery, it was of yore wherewith 
Moses sweetened the bitter water; whence the People, which was perishing of 
thirst in the desert, drank and revived; just as we do, who, drawn out from the 
calamities of the heathendom in which we were tarrying perishing with thirst 
(that is, deprived of the divine word), drinking, "by the faith which is on 
Him," the baptismal water of the "tree" of the passion of Christ, have 
revived,--a faith from which Israel has fallen away, (as foretold) through 
Jeremiah, who says, "Send, and ask exceedingly whether such things have been 
done, whether nations will change their gods (and these are not gods!). But My 
People hath changed their glory: whence no profit shall accrue to them: the 
heaven turned pale thereat" (and when did it turn pale? undoubtedly when Christ 
suffered), "and shuddered," he says, "most exceedingly;" and "the sun grew dark 
at mid-day:" (and when did it "shudder exceedingly" except at the passion of 
Christ, when the earth also trembled to her centre, and the veil of the temple 
was rent, and the tombs were burst asunder? "because these two evils hath My 
People done; Me," He says, "they have quite forsaken, the fount of water of 
life, and they have digged for themselves worn-out tanks, which will not be able 
to contain water." Undoubtedly, by not receiving Christ, the "fount of water of 
life," they have begun to have "worn-out tanks," that is, synagogues for the use 
of the "dispersions of the Gentiles," in which the Holy Spirit no longer 
lingers, as for the time past He was wont to tarry in the temple before the 
advent of Christ, who is the true temple of God. For, that they should withal 
suffer this thirst of the Divine Spirit, the prophet Isaiah had said, saying: 
"Behold, they who serve Me shall eat, but ye shall be hungry; they who serve 
Me shall drink, but ye shall thirst, and from general tribulation of spirit 
shall howl: for ye shall transmit your name for a satiety to Mine elect, but you 
the Lord shall slay; but for them who serve Me shall be named a new name, which 
shall be blessed in the lands." 
Again, the mystery of this "tree" we read as being celebrated even in the 
Books of the Reigns. For when the sons of the prophets were cutting "wood" with 
axes on the bank of the river Jordan, the iron flew off and sank in the stream; 
and so, on Elisha the prophet's coming up, the sons of the prophets beg of him 
to extract from the stream the iron which had sunk. And accordingly Elisha, 
having taken "wood," and cast it into that place where the iron had been 
submerged, forthwith it rose and swam on the surface, and the "wood" sank, which 
the sons of the prophets recovered. Whence they understood that Elijah's spirit 
was presently conferred upon him. What is more manifest than the mystery of this 
"wood,"--that the obduracy of this world had been sunk in the profundity of 
error, and is freed in baptism by the "wood" of Christ, that is, of His passion; 
in order that what had formerly perished through the "tree" in Adam, should be 
restored through the "tree" in Christ? while we, of course, who have succeeded 
to, and occupy, the room of the prophets, at the present day sustain in the 
world that treatment which the prophets always suffered on account of divine 
religion: for some they stoned, some they banished; more, however, they 
delivered to mortal slaughter,--a fact which they cannot deny. 
This "wood," again, Isaac the son of Abraham personally carried for his own 
sacrifice, when God had enjoined that he should be made a victim to Himself. 
But, because these had been mysteries which were being kept for perfect 
fulfilment in the times of Christ, Isaac, on the one hand, with his "wood," was 
reserved, the ram being of 171 
feted which was caught by the horns in the bramble; Christ, on the other 
hand, in His times, carried His "wood" on His own shoulders, adhering to the 
horns of the cross, with a thorny crown encircling His head. For Him it behoved 
to be made a sacrifice on behalf of all Gentiles, who "was led as a sheep for a 
victim, and, like a lamb voiceless before his shearer, so opened not His mouth" 
(for He, when Pilate interrogated Him, spake nothing); for "in humility His 
judgment was taken away: His nativity, moreover, who shall declare?" Because no 
one at all of human beings was conscious of the nativity of Christ at His 
conception, when as the Virgin Mary was found pregnant by the word of God; and 
because "His life was to be taken from the land." Why, accordingly, after His 
resurrection from the dead, which was effected on the third day, did the heavens 
receive Him back? It was in accordance with a prophecy of Hosea, uttered on this 
wise: "Before daybreak shall they arise unto Me, saying, Let us go and return 
unto the Lord our God, because Himself will draw us out and free us. After a 
space of two days, on the third day"--which is His glorious resurrection--He 
received back into the heavens (whence withal the Spirit Himself had come to the 
Virgin) Him whose nativity and passion alike the Jews have failed to 
acknowledge. Therefore, since the Jews still contend that the Christ is not yet 
come, whom we have in so many ways approved to be come, let the Jews recognise 
their own fate,-a fate which they were constantly foretold as destined to incur 
after the advent of the Christ, on account of the impiety with which they 
despised and slew Him. For first, from the day when, according to the saying of 
Isaiah, "a man cast forth his abominations of gold and silver, which they made 
to adore with vain and hurtful (rites),"--that is, ever since we Gentiles, with 
our breast doubly enlightened through Christ's truth, cast forth (let the Jews 
see it) our idols,--what follows has likewise been fulfilled. For "the Lord of 
Sabaoth hath taken away, among the Jews from Jerusalem," among the other things 
named, "the wise architect" too, who builds the church, God's temple, and the 
holy city, and the house of the Lord. For thenceforth God's grace desisted (from 
working) among them. And "the clouds were commanded not to rain a shower upon 
the vineyard of Sorek,"--the clouds being celestial benefits, which were 
commanded not to be forthcoming to the house of Israel; for it "had borne 
thorns"--whereof that house of Israel had wrought a crown for Christ--and not 
"righteousness, but a clamour,"--the clamour whereby it had extorted His 
surrender to the cross. And thus, the former gifts of grace being withdrawn, 
"the law and the prophets were until John,"and the fishpool of Bethsaida until 
the advent of Christ: thereafter it ceased curatively to remove from Israel 
infirmities of health; since, as the result of their perseverance in their 
frenzy, the name of the Lord was through them blasphemed, as it is written: "On 
your account the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles:" for it is from 
them that the infamy (attached to that name) began, and (was propagated during) 
the interval from Tiberius to Vespasian. And because they had committed these 
crimes, and had failed to understand that Christ "was to be found" in "the time 
of their visitation," their land has been made "desert, and their cities utterly 
burnt with fire, while strangers devour their region in their sight: the 
daughter of Sion is derelict, as a watch-tower in a vineyard, or as a shed in a 
cucumber garden,"--ever since the time, to wit, when "Israel knew not" the Lord, 
and "the People understood Him not;" but rather "quite forsook, and provoked 
unto indignation, the Holy One of Israel." So, again, we find a conditional 
threat of the sword: "If ye shall have been unwilling, and shall not have been 
obedient, the glaive shall eat you up." Whence we prove that the sword was 
CHRIST, by not hearing whom they perished; who, again, in the Psalm, demands of 
the Father their dispersion, saying, "Disperse them in Thy power;" who, withal, 
again through Isaiah prays for their utter burning. "On My account," He says, 
"have these things happened to you; in anxiety shall ye sleep." 
Since, therefore, the Jews were predicted as destined to suffer these 
calamities an Christ's account, and we find that they have suffered them, and 
see them sent into dispersion and 172 
abiding in it, manifest it is that it is on Christ's account that these 
things have befallen the Jews, the sense of the Scriptures harmonizing with the 
issue of events and of the order of the times. Or else, if Christ is not yet 
come, on whose account they were predicted as destined thus to suffer, when He 
shall have come it follows that they will thus suffer. And where will then be a 
daughter of Sion to be derelict, who now has no existence? where the cities to 
be exust, which are already exust and in heaps? where the dispersion of a race 
which is now in exile? Restore to Judea the condition which Christ is to find; 
and (then, if you will), contend that some other (Christ) is coming. 
CHAP. XIV.--CONCLUSION. CLUE TO THE ERROR OF THE JEWS.
Learn now (over and above the immediate question) the clue to your error. We 
affirm, two characters of the Christ demonstrated by the prophets, and as many 
advents of His forenoted: one, in humility (of course the first), when He has to 
be led "as a sheep for a victim; and, as a lamb voiceless before the shearer, so 
He opened not His mouth," not even in His aspect comely. For "we have 
announced," says the prophet, "concerning Him, (He is) as a little child, as a 
root in a thirsty land; and there was not in Him attractiveness or glory. And we 
saw Him, and He had not attractiveness or grace; but His mien was unhonoured, 
deficient in comparison of the sons of men," "a man set in the plague, and 
knowing how to bear infirmity:" to wit as having been set by the Father "for a 
stone of offence," and "made a little lower" by Him "than angels," He pronounces 
Himself "a worm, and not a man, an ignominy of man, and the refuse of the 
People." Which evidences of ignobility suit the FIRST ADVENT, just as those of 
sublimity do the SECOND; when He shall be made no longer "a stone of offence nor 
a rock of scandal," but "the highest corner-stone," after reprobation (on earth) 
taken up (into heaven) and raised sublime for the purpose of consummation, and 
that "rock"--so we must admit--which is read of in Daniel as forecut from a 
mount, which shall crush and crumble the image of secular kingdoms. Of which 
second advent of the same (Christ) Daniel has said: "And, behold, as it were a 
Son of man, coming with the clouds of the heaven, came unto the Ancient of days, 
and was present in His sight; and they who were standing by led (Him) unto Him. 
And there was given Him royal power; and all nations of the earth, according to 
their race, and all glory, shall serve Him: and His power is eternal, which 
shall not be taken away, and His kingdom one which shall not be corrupted." 
Then, assuredly, is He to have an honourable mien, and a grace not "deficient 
more than the sons of men;" for (He will then be) "blooming in beauty in 
comparison with the sons of men." "Grace," says the Psalmist, "hath been 
outpoured in Thy lips: wherefore God hath blessed Thee unto eternity. Gird Thee 
Thy sword around Thy thigh, most potent in Thy bloom and beauty!" while the 
Father withal afterwards, after making Him somewhat lower than angels, "crowned 
Him with glory and honour and subjected all things beneath His feet." And then 
shall they "learn to know Him whom they pierced, and shall beat their breasts 
tribe by tribe;" of course because in days bygone they did not know Him when 
conditioned in the humility of human estate. Jeremiah says: "He is a human 
being, and who will learn to know Him?" because, "His nativity," says Isaiah, 
"who shall declare?" So, too, in Zechariah, in His own person, nay, in the very 
mystery of His name withal, the most true Priest of the Father, His own Christ, 
is delineated in a twofold garb with reference to the TWO ADVENTS. First, He was 
clad in "sordid attire," that is, in the indignity of passible and mortal flesh, 
when the devil, withal, was opposing himself to Him--the instigator, to wit, of 
Judas the traitor--who even after His baptism had tempted Him. In the next 
place, He was stripped of His former sordid raiment, and adorned with a garment 
down to the foot, and with a turban and a clean mitre, that is, (with the garb) 
of the SECOND ADVENT; since He is demonstrated as having attained "glory and 
honour." Nor 173 
will you be able to say that the man (there depicted) is "the son of 
Jozadak," who was never at all clad in a sordid garment, but was always adorned 
with the sacerdotal garment, nor ever deprived of the sacerdotal function. But 
the "Jesus" there alluded to is CHRIST, the Priest of God the most high Father; 
who at His FIRST ADVENT came in humility, in human form, and passible, even up 
to the period of His passion; being Himself likewise made, through all (stages 
of suffering) a victim for us all; who after His resurrection was "clad with a 
garment down to the foot," and named the Priest of God the Father unto eternity. 
So, again, I will make an interpretation of the two goats which were habitually 
offered on the fast-day. Do not they, too, point to each successive stage in the 
character of the Christ who is already come? A pair, on the one hand, and 
consimilar (they were), because of the identity of the Lord's general 
appearance, inasmuch as He is not to come in some other form, seeing that He has 
to be recognised by those by whom He was once hurt. But the one of them, begirt 
with scarlet, amid cursing and universal spitting, and tearing, and piercing, 
was cast away by the People outside the city into perdition, marked with 
manifest tokens of Christ's passion; who, after being begirt with scarlet 
garment, and subjected to universal spitting, and afflicted with all 
contumelies, was crucified outside the city. The other, however: offered for 
sins, and given as food to the priests merely of the temple, gave signal 
evidences of the second appearance; in so far as, after the expiation of all 
sins, the priests of the spiritual temple, that is, of the church, were to enjoy 
a spiritual public distribution (as it were) of the Lord's grace, while all 
others are fasting from salvation. 
Therefore, since the vaticinations of the FIRST ADVENT obscured it with 
manifold figures, and debased it with every dishonour, while the SECOND (was 
foretold as) manifest and wholly worthy of God, it has resulted therefrom, that, 
by fixing their gaze on that one alone which they could easily understand and 
believe (that is, the SECOND, which is in honour and glory), they have been (not 
undeservedly) deceived as to the more obscure--at all events, the more 
unworthy--that is, the FIRST. And thus to the present moment they affirm that 
their Christ is not come, because He is not come in majesty; while they are 
ignorant of the fact that He was first to come in humility. 
Enough it is, meantime, to have thus far followed the stream downward of the 
order of Christ's course, whereby He is proved such as He was habitually 
announced: in order that, as a result of this harmony of the Divine Scriptures, 
we may understand; and that the events which used to be predicted as destined to 
take place after Christ may be believed to have been accomplished as the result 
of a divine arrangement. For unless He come after whom they had to be 
accomplished, by no means would the events, the future occurrence whereof was 
predictively assigned to His advent, have come to pass. 
Therefore, if you see universal nations thenceforth emerging from the 
profundity of human error to God the Creator and His Christ (which you dare not 
assert to have not been prophesied, because, albeit you were so to assert, there 
would forthwith--as we have already premised--occur to you the promise of the 
Father saying, "My Son art Thou; I this day have begotten Thee; ask of Me, and I 
will give Thee Gentiles as Thine heritage, and as Thy possession the boundaries 
of the earth." Nor will you be able to vindicate, as the subject of that 
prediction, rather the son of David, Solomon, than Christ, God's Son; nor "the 
boundaries of the earth," as promised rather to David's son, who reigned within 
the single land of Judea, than to Christ the Son of God, who has already 
illumined the whole world with the rays of His gospel. In short, again, a throne 
"unto the age" is more suitable to Christ, God's Son, than to Solomon,--a 
temporal king, to wit, who reigned over Israel alone. For at the present day 
nations are invoking Christ which used not to know Him; and peoples at the 
present day are fleeing in a body to the Christ of whom in days bygone they were 
ignorant), you cannot contend that is future which you see taking place. Either 
deny that these events were prophesied, while they are seen before your eyes; or 
else have been fulfilled, while you hear them read: or, on the other hand, if 
you fail to deny each position, they will have their fulfilment in Him with 
respect to whom they were prophesied. 

