
Tertullian












Tertullian 
On the Apparel of Women
BOOK I. 
CHAPTER I.--INTRODUCTION. MODESTY IN APPAREL BECOMING TO WOMEN, IN MEMORY OF 
THE INTRODUCTION OF SIN INTO THE WORLD THROUGH A WOMAN. 
If there dwelt upon earth a faith as great as is the reward of faith which is 
expected in the heavens, no one of you at all, best beloved sisters, from the 
time that she had first "known the Lord," and learned (the truth) concerning her 
own (that is, woman's) condition, would have desired too gladsome (not to say 
too ostentatious) a style of dress; so as not rather to go about in humble garb, 
and rather to affect meanness of appearance, walking about as Eve mourning and 
repentant, in order that by every garb of penitence she might the more fully 
expiate that which she derives from Eve,--the ignominy, I mean, of the first 
sin, and the odium (attaching to her as the cause) of human perdition. "In pains 
and in anxieties dost thou bear (children), woman; and toward thine husband thy 
inclination, and he lords It over thee." And do you not know that you are (each) 
an Eve? The sentence of God on this sex of yours lives in this age: the guilt 
must of necessity live too. You are the devil's gateway: you are the unsealer of 
that (forbidden) tree: you are the first deserter of the divine law: you are she 
who persuaded him whom the devil was not valiant enough to attack. You destroyed 
so easily God's image, man. On account of your desert--that is, death--even the 
Son of God had to die. And do you think about adorning yourself over and above 
your tunics of skins? Come, now; if from the beginning of the world the 
Milesians sheared sheep, and the Serians spun trees, and the Tyrians dyed, and 
the Phrygians embroidered with the needle, and the Babylonians with the loom, 
and pearls gleamed, and onyx-stones flashed; if gold itself also had already 
issued, with the cupidity (which accompanies it), from the ground; if the 
mirror, too, already had licence to lie so largely, Eve, expelled from paradise, 
(Eve) already dead, would also have coveted these things, I imagine! No more, 
then, ought she now to crave, or be acquainted with (if she desires to live 
again), what, when she was living, she had neither had nor known. Accordingly 
these things are all the baggage of woman in her condemned and dead state, 
instituted as if to swell the pomp of her funeral. 
CHAPTER II.--THE ORIGIN OF FEMALE ORNAMENTATION, TRACED BACK TO THE ANGELS 
WHO HAD FALLEN. 
For they, withal, who instituted them are assigned, under condemnation, to 
the penalty of death,--those angels, to wit, who rushed from heaven on the 
daughters of men; so that this ignominy also attaches to woman. For when to an 
age much more ignorant (than ours) they had disclosed certain well-concealed 
material substances, and several not well-revealed scientific arts--if it is 
true that they had laid bare the operations of metallurgy, and had divulged the 
natural properties of herbs, and had promulgated the powers of enchantments, and 
had traced out every curious art, even to the interpretation of the stars--they 
conferred properly and as it were peculiarly upon women that instrumental mean 
of womanly ostentation, the radiances of jewels wherewith necklaces are 
variegated, and the circlets of gold wherewith the arms are compressed, and the 
medicaments of orchil with which wools are coloured, and that black powder 
itself wherewith the eyelids and eyelashes are made prominent. What is the 
quality of these things may be declared meantime, even at this point, from the 
quality and condition of their teachers: in that sinners could never have either 
shown or supplied anything conducive to integrity, unlawful lovers anything 
conducive to chastity, renegade spirits anything conducive to the fear of God. 
If (these things) are to be called teachings, ill masters must of necessity have 
taught ill; if as wages of lust, there is nothing base of which the wages are 
honourable. But why was it of so much importance to show these things as well as 
to confer them? Was it that women, without material causes of splendour, and 
without ingenious contrivances of grace, could not please men, who, while still 
unadorned, and uncouth and--so to say--crude and rude, had moved (the mind of) 
angels? or was it that the lovers would appear sordid and--through gratuitous 
use--contumelious, if they had conferred no (compensating) gift on the women who 
had been enticed into connubial connection with them? But these questions admit 
of no calculation. Women who possessed angels (as husbands) could desire nothing 
more; they had, forsooth, made a grand match! Assuredly they who, of course, did 
sometimes think whence they had fallen, and, after the heated impulses of their 
lusts, looked up toward heaven, thus requited that very excellence of women, 
natural beauty, as (having proved) a cause of evil, in order that their good 
fortune might profit them nothing; but that, being turned from simplicity and 
sincerity, they, together with (the angels) themselves, might become offensive 
to God. Sure they were that all ostentation, and ambition, and love of pleasing 
by carnal means, was displeasing to God. And these are the angels whom we are 
destined to judge: these are the angels whom in baptism we renounce: these, of 
course, are the reasons why they have deserved to be judged by man. What 
business, then, have their things with their judges? What commerce have they who 
are to condemn with them who are to be condemned? The same, I take it, as Christ 
has with Belial. With what consistency do we mount that (future) judgment-seat 
to pronounce sentence against those whose gifts we (now) seek after? For you 
too, (women as you are,) have the self-same angelic nature promised as your 
reward, the self-same sex as men: the self-same advancement to the dignity of 
judging, does (the Lord) promise you. Unless, then, we begin even here to 
prejudge, by pre-condemning their things, which we are hereafter to condemn in 
themselves, they will rather judge and condemn us. 
CHAP. III.--CONCERNING THE GENUINENESS OF "THE PROPHECY OF ENOCH." 
I am aware that the Scripture of Enoch, which has assigned this order (of 
action) to angels, is not received by some, because it is not admitted into the 
Jewish canon either. I suppose they did not think that, having been published 
before the deluge, it could have safely survived that world-wide calamity, the 
abolisher of all things. If that is the reason (for rejecting it), let them 
recall to their memory that Noah, the survivor of the deluge, was the 
great-grandson of Enoch himself; and he, of course, had heard and remembered, 
from domestic renown and hereditary tradition, concerning his own 
great-grandfather's "grace in the sight of God," and concerning all his 
preachings; since Enoch had given no other charge to Methuselah than that he 
should hand on the knowledge of them to his posterity. Noah therefore, no doubt, 
might have succeeded in the trusteeship of (his) preaching; or, had the case 
been otherwise, he would not have been silent alike concerning the disposition 
(of things) made by God, his Preserver, and concerning the particular glory of 
his own house. 
If (Noah) had not had this (conservative power) by so short a route, there 
would (still) be this (consideration) to warrant our assertion of (the 
genuineness of) this Scripture: he could equally have renewed it, under the 
Spirit's inspiration, after it had been destroyed by the violence of the deluge, 
as, after the destruction of Jerusalem by the Babylonian storming of it, every 
document of the Jewish literature is generally agreed to have been restored 
through Ezra. 
But since Enoch in the same Scripture has preached likewise concerning the 
Lord, nothing at all must be rejected by us which pertains to us; and we read 
that "every Scripture suitable for edification is divinely inspired. By the yews 
it may now seem to have been rejected for that (very) reason, just like all the 
other (portions) nearly which tell of Christ. Nor, of course, is this fact 
wonderful, that they did not receive some Scriptures which spake of Him whom 
even in person, speaking in their presence, they were not to receive. To these 
considerations is added the fact that Enoch possesses a testimony in the Apostle 
Jude. 
CHAPTER IV.--WAIVING THE QUESTION OF THE AUTHORS, TERTULLIAN PROPOSES TO 
CONSIDER THE THINGS ON THEIR OWN MERITS. 
Grant now that no mark of pre-condemnation has been branded on womanly pomp 
by the (fact of the) fate of its authors; let nothing be imputed to those angels 
besides their repudiation of heaven and (their) carnal marriage: let us examine 
the qualities of the things themselves, in order that we may detect the purposes 
also for which they are eagerly desired. 
Female habit carries with it a twofold idea--dress and ornament. By "dress" 
we mean what they call "womanly gracing;" by "ornament," what it is suitable 
should be called "womanly disgracing." The former is accounted (to consist) in 
gold, and silver, and gems, and garments; the latter in care of the hair, and of 
the skin, and of those parts of the body which attract the eye. Against the one 
we lay the charge of ambition, against the other of prostitution; so that even 
from this early stage (of our discussion) you may look forward and see what, out 
of (all) these, is suitable, handmaid of God, to your discipline, inasmuch as 
you are assessed on different principles (from other women),--those, namely, of 
humility and chastity. 
CHAPTER V.--GOLD AND SILVER NOT SUPERIOR IN ORIGIN OR IN UTILITY TO OTHER 
METALS. 
Gold and silver, the principal material causes of worldly splendour, must 
necessarily be identical (in nature) with that out of which they have their 
being: (they must be) earth, that is; (which earth itself is) plainly more 
glorious (than they), inasmuch as it is only after it has been tearfully wrought 
by penal labour in the deadly laboratories of accursed mines, and there left its 
name of "earth" in the fire behind it, that, as a fugitive from the mine, it 
passes from torments to ornaments, from punishments to embellishments, from 
ignominies to honours. But iron, and brass, and other the vilest material 
substances, enjoy a parity of condition (with silver and gold), both as to 
earthly origin and metallurgic operation; in order that, in the estimation of 
nature, the substance of gold and of silver may be judged not a whit more noble 
(than theirs). But if it is from the quality of utility that gold and silver 
derive their glory, why, iron and brass excel them; whose usefulness is so 
disposed (by the Creator), that they not only discharge functions of their own 
more numerous and more necessary to human affairs, but do also none the less 
serve the turn of gold and silver, by dint of their own powers, in the service 
of juster causes. For not only are rings made of iron, but the memory of 
antiquity still preserves (the fame of) certain vessels for eating and drinking 
made out of brass. Let the insane plenteousness of gold and silver look to it, 
if it serves to make utensils even for foul purposes. At all events, neither is 
the field tilled by means of gold, nor the ship fastened together by the 
strength of silver. No mattock plunges a golden edge into the ground; no nail 
drives a silver point into planks. I leave unnoticed the fact that the needs of 
our whole life are dependent upon iron and brass; whereas those rich materials 
themselves, requiring both to be dug up out of mines, and needing a forging 
process in every use (to which they are put), are helpless without the laborious 
vigour of iron and brass. Already, therefore, we must judge whence it is that so 
high dignity accrues to gold and silver, since they get precedence over material 
substances which are not only cousin-german to them in point of origin, but more 
powerful in point of usefulness. 
CHAPTER VI.--OF PRECIOUS STONES AND PEARLS. 
But, in the next place, what am I to interpret those jewels to be which vie 
with gold in haughtiness, except little pebbles and stones and paltry particles 
of the self-same earth; but yet not necessary either for laying down 
foundations, or rearing party-walls, or supporting pediments, or giving density 
to roofs? The only edifice which they know how to rear is this silly pride of 
women: because they require slow rubbing that they may shine, and artful 
underlaying that they may show to advantage, and careful piercing that they may 
hang; and (because they) render to gold a mutual assistance in meretricious 
allurement. But whatever it is that ambition fishes up from the British or the 
Indian sea, it is a kind of conch not more pleasing in savour than--I do not say 
the oyster and the sea-snail, but--even the giant muscle. For let me add that I 
know conchs (which axe) sweet fruits of the sea. But if that (foreign) conch 
suffers from some internal pustule, that ought to be regarded rather as its 
defect than as its glory; and although it be called "pearl," still something 
else must be understood than some hard, round excrescence of the fish. Some say, 
too, that gems are culled from the foreheads of dragons, just as in the brains 
of fishes there is a certain stony substance. This also was wanting to the 
Christian woman, that she may add a grace to herself from the serpent! Is it 
thus that she will set her heel on the devil's head," while she heaps ornaments 
(taken) from his head on her own neck, or on her very head? 
CHAPTER VII.--RARITY THE ONLY CAUSE WHICH MAKES SUCH THINGS VALUABLE. 
It is only from their rarity and outlandishness that all these things possess 
their grace; in short, within their own native limits they are not held of so 
high worth. Abundance is always contumelious toward itself. There are some 
barbarians with whom, because gold is indigenous and plentiful, it is customary 
to keep (the criminals) in their convict establishments chained with gold, and 
to lade the wicked with riches--the more guilty, the more wealthy. At last there 
has really been found a way to prevent even gold from being loved! We have also 
seen at Rome the nobility of gems blushing in the presence of our matrons at the 
contemptuous usage of the Parthians and Medes, and the rest of their own 
fellow-countrymen, only that (their gems) are not generally worn with a view to 
ostentation. Emeralds lurk in their belts; and the sword (that hangs) below 
their bosom alone is witness to the cylindrical stones that decorate its hilt; 
and the massive single pearls on their boots are fain to get lifted out of the 
mud! In short, they carry nothing so richly gemmed as that which ought not to be 
gemmed if it is (either) not conspicuous, or else is conspicuous only that it 
may be shown to be also neglected. 
CHAPTER VIII.--THE SAME RULE HOLDS WITH REGARD TO COLOURS. GOD'S CREATURES 
GENERALLY NOT TO BE USED, EXCEPT FOR THE PURPOSES TO WHICH HE HAS APPOINTED 
THEM. 
Similarly, too, do even the servants of those barbarians cause the glory to 
fade from the colours of our garments (by wearing the like); nay, even their 
party-walls use slightingly, to supply the place of painting, the Tyrian and the 
violet-coloured and the grand royal hangings, which you laboriously undo and 
metamorphose. Purple with them is more paltry than red ochre; (and justly,) for 
what legitimate honour can garments derive from adulteration with illegitimate 
colours? That which He Himself has not produced is not pleasing to God, unless 
He was unable to order sheep to be born with purple and sky-blue fleeces! If He 
was able, then plainly He was unwilling: what God willed not, of course ought 
not to be fashioned. Those things, then, are not the best by nature which are 
not from God, the Author of nature. Thus they are understood to be from the 
devil, from the corrupter of nature: for there is no other whose they can be, if 
they are not God's; because what are not God's must necessarily be His rival's. 
But, beside the devil and his angels, other rival of God there is none. Again, 
if the material substances are of God, it does not immediately follow that such 
ways of enjoying them among men (are so too). It is matter for inquiry not only 
whence come conchs, but what sphere of embellishment is assigned them, and where 
it is that they exhibit their beauty. For all those profane pleasures of worldly 
shows--as we have already published a volume of their own about them-- (ay, and) 
even idolatry itself, derive their material causes from the creatures of God. 
Yet a Christian ought not to attach himself to the frenzies of the racecourse, 
or the atrocities of the arena, or the turpitudes of the stage, simply because 
God has given to man the horse, and the panther, and the power of speech: just 
as a Christian cannot commit idolatry with impunity either, because the incense, 
and the wine, and the fire which feeds (thereon), and the animals which are made 
the victims, are God's workmanship; since even the material thing which is 
adored is God's (creature). Thus then, too, with regard to their active use, 
does the origin of the material substances, which descends from God, excuse 
(that use) as foreign to God, as guilty forsooth of worldly glory! 
CHAPTER IX.--GOD'S DISTRIBUTION MUST REGULATE OUR DESIRES, OTHERWISE WE 
BECOME THE PREY OF AMBITION AND ITS ATTENDANT EVILS. 
For, as some particular things distributed by God over certain individual 
lands, and some one particular tract of sea, are mutually foreign one to the 
other, they are reciprocally either neglected or desired: (desired) among 
foreigners, as being rarities; neglected (rightly), if anywhere, among their own 
compatriots, because in them there is no such fervid longing for a glory which, 
among its own home-folk, is frigid. But, however, the rareness and 
outlandishness which arise out of that distribution of possessions which God has 
ordered as He willed, ever finding favour in the eyes of strangers, excites, 
from the simple fact of not having what God has made native to other places, the 
concupiscence of having it. Hence is educed another vice--that of immoderate 
having; because although, perhaps, having may be permissible, still a limit is 
bound (to be observed). This (second vice) will be ambition; and hence, too, its 
name is to be interpreted, in that from concupiscence ambient in the mind it is 
born, with a view to the desire of glory,--a grand desire, forsooth, which (as 
we have said) is recommended neither by nature nor by truth, but by a vicious 
passion of the mind,-- (namely,) concupiscence. And there are other vices 
connected with ambition and glory. Thus they have withal enhanced the cost of 
things, in order that (thereby) they might add fuel to themselves also; for 
concupiscence becomes proportionably greater as it has set a higher value upon 
the thing which it has eagerly desired. From the smallest caskets is produced an 
ample patrimony. On a single thread is suspended a million of sesterces. One 
delicate neck carries about it forests and islands. The slender lobes of the 
ears exhaust a fortune; and the left hand, with its every finger, sports with a 
several money-bag. Such is the strength of ambition-- (equal) to bearing on one 
small body, and that a woman's, the product of so copious wealth: 
BOOK II. 
CHAPTER I.--INTRODUCTION. MODESTY TO BE OBSERVED NOT ONLY IN ITS ESSENCE, BUT 
IN ITS ACCESSORIES. 
Handmaids of the living God, my fellow-servants and sisters, the right which 
I enjoy with you--I, the most meanest in that right of fellow-servantship and 
brotherhood--emboldens me to address to you a discourse, not, of course, of 
affection, but paving the way for affection in the cause of your salvation. That 
salvation--and not (the salvation) of women only, but likewise of men--consists 
in the exhibition principally of modesty. For since, by the introduction into an 
appropriation us of the Holy Spirit, we are all" the temple of God," Modesty is 
the sacristan and priestess of that temple, who is to suffer nothing unclean or 
profane to be introduced (into it), for fear that the God who inhabits it should 
be offended, and quite forsake the polluted abode. But on the present occasion 
we (are to speak) not about modesty, for the enjoining and exacting of which the 
divine precepts which press (upon us) on every side are sufficient; but about 
the matters which pertain to it, that is, the manner in which it behoves you to 
walk. For most women (which very thing I trust God may permit me, with a view, 
of course, to my own personal censure, to censure in all), either from simple 
ignorance or else from dissimulation, have the hardihood so to walk as if 
modesty consisted only in the (bare) integrity of the flesh, and in turning away 
from (actual) fornication; and there were no need for anything extrinsic to 
boot--in the matter (I mean) of the arrangement of dress and ornament, the 
studied graces of form and brilliance:--wearing in their gait the self-same 
appearance as the women of the nations, from whom the sense of true modesty is 
absent, because in those who know not God, the Guardian and Master of truth, 
there is nothing true. For if any modesty can be believed (to exist) in 
Gentiles, it is plain that it must be imperfect and undisciplined to such a 
degree that, although it be actively tenacious of itself in the mind up to a 
certain point, it yet allows itself to relax into licentious extravagances of 
attire; just in accordance with Gentile perversity, in craving after that of 
which it carefully shuns the effect. How many a one, in short, is there who does 
not earnestly desire even to look pleasing to strangers? who does not on that 
very account take care to have herself painted out, and denies that she has 
(ever) been an object of (carnal) appetite? And yet, granting that even this is 
a practice familiar to Gentile modesty-- (namely,) not actually to commit the 
sin, but still to be willing to do so; or even not to be willing, yet still not 
quite to refuse--what wonder? for all things which are not God's are perverse. 
Let those women therefore look to it, who, by not holding fast the whole good, 
easily mingle with evil even what they do hold fast. Necessary it is that you 
turn aside from them, as in all other things, so also in your gait; since you 
ought to be "perfect, as your Father who is in the heavens." 
CHAPTER II.--PERFECT MODESTY WILL ABSTAIN FROM WHATEVER TENDS TO SIN, AS WELL 
AS FROM SIN ITSELF. DIFFERENCE BETWEEN TRUST AND PRESUMPTION. IF SECURE 
OURSELVES, WE MUST NOT PUT TEMPTATION IN THE WAY OF OTHERS. WE MUST LOVE OUR 
NEIGHBOUR AS OURSELF. 
You must know that in the eye of perfect, that is, Christian, modesty, 
(carnal) desire of one's self (on the part of others) is not only not to be 
desired, but even execrated, by you: first, because the study of making personal 
grace (which we know to be naturally the inviter of lust) a mean of pleasing 
does not spring from a sound conscience: why therefore excite toward yourself 
that evil (passion)? why invite (that) to which you profess yourself a stranger? 
secondly, because we ought not to open a way to temptations, which, by their 
instancy, sometimes achieve (a wickedness) which God expels from them who are 
His; (or,) at all events, put the spirit into a thorough tumult by (presenting) 
a stumbling-block (to it). We ought indeed to walk so holily, and with so entire 
substantiality of faith, as to be confident and secure in regard of our own 
conscience, desiring that that (gift) may abide in us to the end, yet not 
presuming (that it will). For he who presumes feels less apprehension; he who 
feels less apprehension takes less precaution; he who takes less precaution runs 
more risk. Fear is the foundation of salvation; presumption is an impediment to 
fear. More useful, then, is it to apprehend that we may possibly fail, than to 
presume that we cannot; for apprehending will lead us to fear, fearing to 
caution, and caution to salvation. On the other hand, if we presume, there will 
be neither fear nor caution to save us. He who acts securely, and not at the 
same time warily, possesses no safe and firm security; whereas he who is wary 
will be truly able to be secure. For His own servants, may the Lord by His mercy 
take care that to them it may be lawful even to presume on His goodness! But why 
are we a (source of) danger to our neighbour? why do we import concupiscence 
into our neighbour? which concupiscence, if God, in "amplifying the law," do not 
dissociate in (the way of) penalty from the actual commission of fornication, I 
know not whether He allows impunity to him who has been the cause of perdition 
to some other. For that other, as soon as he has felt concupiscence after your 
beauty, and has mentally already committed (the deed) which his concupiscence 
pointed to, perishes; and you have been made the sword which destroys him: so 
that, albeit you be free from the (actual) crime, you are not free from the 
odium (attaching to it); as, when a robbery has been committed on some man's 
estate, the (actual) crime indeed will not be laid to the owner's charge, while 
yet the domain is branded with ignominy, (and) the owner himself aspersed with 
the infamy. Are we to paint ourselves out that our neighbours may perish? Where, 
then, is (the command), "Thou shall love thy neighbour as thyself?" "Care not 
merely about your own (things), but (about your) neighbour's?" No enunciation of 
the Holy Spirit ought to be (confined) to the subject immediately in hand 
merely, and not applied and carried out with a view to every occasion to which 
its application is useful. Since, therefore, both our own interest and that of 
others is implicated in the studious pursuit of most perilous (outward) 
comeliness, it is time for you to know that not merely must the pageantry of 
fictitious and elaborate beauty be rejected by you; but that of even natural 
grace must be obliterated by concealment and negligence, as equally dangerous to 
the glances of (the beholder's) eyes. For, albeit comeliness is not to be 
censured, as being a bodily happiness, as being an additional outlay of the 
divine plastic art, as being a kind of goodly garment of the soul; yet it is to 
be feared, just on account of the injuriousness and violence of suitors: which 
(injuriousness and violence) even the father of the faith, Abraham, greatly 
feared in regard of his own wife's grace; and Isaac, by falsely representing 
Rebecca as his sister, purchased safety by insult! 
CHAPTER III.--GRANT THAT BEAUTY BE NOT TO BE FEARED: STILL IT IS TO BE 
SHUNNED AS UNNECESSARY AND VAINGLORIOUS, 
Let it now be granted that excellence of form be not to be feared, as neither 
troublesome to its possessors, nor destructive to its desirers, nor perilous to 
its compartners; let it be thought (to be) not exposed to temptations, not 
surrounded by stumbling-blocks: it is enough that to angels of God it is not 
necessary. For, where modesty is, there beauty is idle; because properly the use 
and fruit of beauty is voluptuousness, unless any one thinks that there is some 
other harvest for bodily grace to reap. Are women who think that, in furnishing 
to their neighbour that which is demanded of beauty, they are furnishing it to 
themselves also, to augment that (beauty) when (naturally) given them, and to 
strive after it when not (thus) given? Some one will say, "Why, then, if 
voluptuousness be shut out and chastity let in, may not enjoy the praise of 
beauty alone, and glory in a bodily good?" Let whoever finds pleasure in 
"glorying in the flesh" see to that. To us in the first place, there is no 
studious pursuit of "glory," because "glory" is the essence of exaltation. Now 
exaltation is incongruous for professors of humility according to God's 
precepts. Secondly, if all "glory" is "vain" and insensate, how much more 
(glory) in the flesh, especially to us? For even if "glorying" is (allowable), 
we ought to wish our sphere of pleasing to lie in the graces of the Spirit, not 
in the flesh; because we are "suitors'' of things spiritual. In those things 
wherein our sphere of labour lies, let our joy lie. From the sources whence we 
hope for salvation, let us cull our "glory." Plainly, a Christian will "glory" 
even in the flesh; but (it will be) when it has endured laceration for Christ's 
sake, in order that the spirit may be crowned in it, not in order that it may 
draw the eyes and sighs of youths after it. Thus (a thing) which, from whatever 
point you look at it, is in your case superfluous, you may justly disdain if you 
have it not, and neglect if you have. Let a holy woman, if naturally beautiful, 
give none so great occasion (for carnal appetite). Certainly, if even she be so, 
she ought not to set off (her beauty), but even to obscure it. 
CHAPTER IV.--CONCERNING THE PLEA OF "PLEASING THE HUSBAND," 
As if I were speaking to Gentiles, addressing you with a Gentile precept, and 
(one which is) common to all, (I would say,) "You are bound to please your 
husbands only." But you will please them in proportion as you take no care to 
please others. Be ye without carefulness, blessed (sisters): no wife is "ugly" 
to her own husband. She "pleased" him enough when she was selected (by him as 
his wife); whether commended by form or by character. Let none of you think 
that, if she abstain from the care of her person, she will incur the hatred and 
aversion of husbands. Every husband is the exactor of chastity; but beauty, a 
believing (husband) does not require, because we are not captivated by the same 
graces which the Gentiles think (to be) graces: an unbelieving one, on the other 
hand, even regards with suspicion, just from that infamous opinion of us which 
the Gentiles have. For whom, then, is it that you cherish your beauty? If for a 
believer, he does not exact it: if for an unbeliever, he does not believe in it 
unless it be artless. Why are you eager to please either one who is suspicious, 
or else one who desires it not? 
CHAPTER V.--SOME REFINEMENTS IN DRESS AND PERSONAL APPEARANCE LAWFUL, SOME 
UNLAWFUL. PIGMENTS COME UNDER THE LATTER HEAD. 
These suggestions are not made to you, of course, to be developed into an 
entire crudity and wildness of appearance; nor are we seeking to persuade you of 
the good of squalor and slovenliness; but of the limit and norm and just measure 
of cultivation of the person. There must be no overstepping of that line to 
which simple and sufficient refinements limit their desires--that line which is 
pleasing to God. For they who rub their skin with medicaments, stain their 
cheeks with rouge, make their eyes prominent with antimony, sin against HIM. To 
them, I suppose, the plastic skill of God is displeasing! In their own persons, 
I suppose, they convict, they censure, the Artificer of all things! For censure 
they, do when they amend, when they add to, (His work;) taking these their 
additions, of course, from the adversary artificer. That adversary artificer is 
the devil. For who would show the way to change the body, but he who by 
wickedness transfigured man's spirit? He it is, undoubtedly, who adapted 
ingenious devices of this kind; that in your persons it may be apparent that 
you, in a certain sense, do violence to God. Whatever is born is the work of 
God. Whatever, then, is plastered on (that), is the devil's work. To superinduce 
on a divine work Satan's ingenuities, how criminal is it! Our servants borrow 
nothing from our personal enemies: soldiers eagerly desire nothing from the foes 
of their own general; for, to demand for (your own) use anything from the 
adversary of Him in whose hand you are, is a transgression. Shall a Christian be 
assisted in anything by that evil one? (If he do,) I know not whether this name 
(of "Christian") will continue (to belong) to him; for he will be his in whose 
lore he eagerly desires to be instructed. But how alien from your schoolings and 
professions are (these things)! How unworthy the Christian name, to wear a 
fictitious face, (you,) on whom simplicity in every form is enjoined!--to lie in 
your appearance, (you,) to whom (lying) with the tongue is not lawful!--to seek 
after what is another's, (you,) to whom is delivered (the precept of) abstinence 
from what is another's!--to practise adultery in your mien, (you,) who make 
modesty your study! Think, blessed (sisters), how will you keep God's precepts 
if you shall not keep in your own persons His lineaments? 
CHAPTER VI.--OF DYEING THE HAIR. 
I see some (women) turn (the colour of) their hair with saffron. They are 
ashamed even of their own nation, (ashamed) that their procreation did not 
assign them to Germany and to Gaul: thus, as it is, they transfer their hair 
(thither)! Ill, ay, most ill, do they augur for themselves with their 
flame-coloured head, and think that graceful which (in fact) they are polluting! 
Nay, moreover, the force of the cosmetics burns ruin into the hair; and the 
constant application of even any undrugged moisture, lays up a store of harm for 
the head; while the sun's warmth, too, so desirable for imparting to the hair at 
once growth and dryness, is hurtful. What "grace" is compatible with "injury?" 
What "beauty" with "impurities?" Shall a Christian woman heap saffron on her 
head, as upon an altar? For, whatever is wont to be burned to the honour of the 
unclean spirit, that--unless it is applied for honest, and necessary, and 
salutary uses, for which God's creature was provided--may seem to be a 
sacrifice. But, however, God saith, "Which of you can make a white hair black, 
or out of a black a white?" And so they refute the Lord! "Behold!" say they, 
"instead of white or black, we make it yellow,--more winning in grace." And yet 
such as repent of having lived to old age do attempt to change it even from 
white to black! O temerity! The age which is the object of our wishes and 
prayers blushes (for itself)! a theft is effected! youth, wherein we have 
sinned, is sighed after! the opportunity of sobriety is spoiled! Far from 
Wisdom's daughters be folly so great! The more old age tries to conceal itself, 
the more will it be detected. Here is a veritable eternity, in the (perennial) 
youth of your head! Here we have an "incorruptibility" to "put on," with a view 
to the new house of the Lord which the divine monarchy promises! Well do you 
speed toward the Lord; well do you hasten to be quit of this most iniquitous 
world, to whom it is unsightly to approach (your own) end! 
CHAPTER VII.--OF ELABORATE DRESSING OF THE HAIR IN OTHER WAYS, AND ITS 
BEARING UPON SALVATION. 
What service, again, does all the labour spent in arranging the hair render 
to salvation? Why is no rest allowed to your hair, which must now be bound, now 
loosed, now cultivated, now thinned out? Some are anxious to force their hair 
into curls, some to let it hang loose and flying; not with good simplicity: 
beside which, you affix I know not what enormities of subtle and textile 
perukes; now, after the manner of a helmet of undressed hide, as it were a 
sheath for the head and a covering for the crown; now, a mass (drawn) backward 
toward the neck. The wonder is, that there is no (open) contending against the 
Lord's prescripts! It has been pronounced that no one can add to his own 
stature. You, however, do add to your weight some kind of rolls, or 
shield-bosses, to be piled upon your necks! If you feel no shame at the 
enormity, feel some at the pollution; for fear you may be fitting on a holy and 
Christian head the slough of some one else's head, unclean perchance, guilty 
perchance and destined to hell. Nay, rather banish quite away from your "free" 
head all this slavery of ornamentation. In vain do you labour to seem adorned: 
in vain do you call in the aid of all the most skilful manufacturers of false 
hair. God bids you "be veiled." I believe (He does so) for fear the heads of 
some should be seen! And oh that in "that day" of Christian exultation, I, most 
miserable (as I am), may elevate my head, even though below (the level of) your 
heels! I shall (then) see whether you will rise with (your) ceruse and rouge and 
saffron, and in all that parade of headgear: whether it will be women thus 
tricked out whom the angels carry up to meet Christ in the air If these 
(decorations) are now good, and of God, they will then also present themselves 
to the rising bodies, and will recognise their several places. But nothing can 
rise except flesh and spirit sole and pure. Whatever, therefore, does not rise 
in (the form of) spirit and flesh is condemned, because it is not of God. From 
things which are condemned abstain, even at the present day. At the present day 
let God see you such as He will see you then. 
CHAP.VIII.--MEN NOT EXCLUDED FROM THESE REMARKS ON PERSONAL ADORNMENT. 
Of course, now, I, a man, as being envious of women, am banishing them quite 
from their own (domains). Are there, in our case too, some things which, in 
respect of the sobriety we are to maintain on account of the fear due to God, 
are disallowed? If it is true, (as it is,) that in men, for the sake of women 
(just as in women for the sake of men), there is implanted, by a defect of 
nature, the will to please; and if this sex of ours acknowledges to itself 
deceptive trickeries of form peculiarly its own,-- (such as) to cut the beard 
too sharply; to pluck it out here and there; to shave round about (the mouth); 
to arrange the hair, and disguise its hoariness by dyes; to remove all the 
incipient down all over the body; to fix (each particular hair) in its place 
with (some) womanly pigment; to smooth all the rest of the body by the aid of 
some rough powder or other: then, further, to take every opportunity for 
consulting the minor; to gaze anxiously into it:-while yet, when (once) the 
knowledge of God has put an end to all wish to please by means of voluptuous 
attraction, all these things are rejected as frivolous, as hostile to modesty. 
For where God is, there modesty is; there is sobriety? her assistant and ally. 
How, then, shall we practise modesty without her instrumental mean, that is, 
without sobriety? How, moreover, shall we bring sobriety to bear on the 
discharge of (the functions of) modesty, unless seriousness in appearance and in 
countenance, and in the general aspect of the entire man, mark our carriage? 
CHAPTER IX.--EXCESS IN DRESS, AS WELL AS IN PERSONAL CULTURE, TO BE SHUNNED. 
ARGUMENTS DRAWN FROM I COR. VII. 
Wherefore, with regard to clothing also, and all the remaining lumber of your 
self-elaboration, the like pruning off and retrenchment of too redundant 
splendour must be the object of your care. For what boots it to exhibit in your 
face temperance and unaffectedness, and a simplicity altogether worthy of the 
divine discipline, but to invest all the other parts of the body with the 
luxurious absurdities of pomps and delicacies? How intimate is the connection 
which these pomps have with the business of voluptuousness, and how they 
interfere with modesty, is easily discernible from the fact that it is by the 
allied aid of dress that they prostitute the grace of personal comeliness: so 
plain is it that if (the pomps) be wanting, they render (that grace) bootless 
and thankless, as if it were disarmed and wrecked. On the other hand, if natural 
beauty fails, the supporting aid of outward embellishment supplies a grace, as 
it were, from its own inherent power. Those times of life, in fact, which are at 
last blest with quiet and withdrawn into the harbour of modesty, the splendour 
and dignity of dress lure away (from that rest and that harbour), and disquiet 
seriousness by seductions of appetite, which compensate for the chili of age by 
the provocative charms of apparel. First, then, blessed (sisters), (take heed) 
that you admit not to your use meretricious and prostitutionary garbs and 
garments: and, in the next place, if there are any of you whom the exigencies of 
riches, or birth, or past dignities, compel to appear in public so gorgeously 
arrayed as not to appear to have attained wisdom, take heed to temper an evil of 
this kind; lest, under the pretext of necessity, you give the rein without stint 
to the indulgence of licence. For how will you be able to fulfil (the 
requirements of) humility, which our (school) profess, if you do not keep within 
bounds the enjoyment of your riches and elegancies, which tend so much to 
"glory?" Now it has ever been the wont of glory to exalt, not to humble. "Why, 
shall we not use what is our own?" Who prohibits your using it? Yet (it must be) 
in accordance with the apostle, who warns us "to use this world as if we abuse 
it not; for the fashion of this world is passing away." And "they who buy are so 
to act as if they possessed not." Why so? Because he had laid down the premiss, 
saying, "The time is wound up." If, then he shows plainly that even wives 
themselves are so to be had as if they be not had, on account of the straits of 
the times, what would be his sentiments about these vain appliances of theirs? 
Why, are there not many, withal, who so do, and seal themselves up to eunuchhood 
for the sake of the kingdom of God, spontaneously relinquishing a pleasure so 
honourable, and (as we know) permitted? Are there not some who prohibit to 
themselves (the use of) the very "creature of God," abstaining from wine and 
animal food, the enjoyments of which border upon no peril or solicitude; but 
they sacrifice to God the humility of their soul even in the chastened use of 
food? Sufficiently, therefore, have you, too, used your riches and your 
delicacies; sufficiently have you cut down the fruits of your dowries, before 
(receiving) the knowledge of saving disciplines. We are they "upon whom the ends 
of the ages have met, having ended their course." We have been predestined by 
God, before the world was, (to arise) in the extreme end of the times. And so we 
are trained by God for the purpose of chastising, and (so to say) emasculating, 
the world. We are the circumcision--spiritual and carnal--of all things; for 
both in the spirit and in the flesh we circumcise worldly principles. 
CHAPTER X.--TERTULLIAN REFERS AGAIN TO THE QUESTION OF THE ORIGIN OF ALL 
THESE ORNAMENTS AND EMBELLISHMENTS. 
It was God, no doubt, who showed the way to dye wools with the juices of 
herbs and the humours of conchs! It had escaped Him, when He was bidding the 
universe to come into being, to issue a command for (the production of) purple 
and scarlet sheep! It was God, too, who devised by careful thought the 
manufactures of those very garments which, light and thin (in themselves), were 
to be heavy in price alone; God who produced such grand implements of gold for 
confining or parting the hair; God who introduced (the fashion of) finely-cut 
wounds for the ears, and set so high a value upon the tormenting of His own work 
and the tortures of innocent infancy, learning to suffer with its earliest 
breath, in order that from those scars of the body--born for the steel!--should 
hang I know not what (precious) grains, which, as we may plainly see, the 
Parthians insert, in place of studs, upon their very shoes! 
And yet even the gold itself, the "glory" of which carries you away, serves a 
certain race (so Gentile literature. tells us) for chains! So true is it that it 
is not intrinsic worth, but rarity, which constitutes the goodness (of these 
things): the excessive labour, moreover, of working them with arts introduced by 
the means of the sinful angels, who were the revealers withal of the material 
substances themselves, joined with their rarity, excited their costliness, and 
hence a lust on the part of women to possess (that) costliness. But, if the 
self-same angels who disclosed both the material substances of this kind and 
their charms--of gold, I mean, and lustrous stones--and taught men how to work 
them, and by and by instructed them, among their other (instructions), in (the 
virtues of) eyelid-powder and the dyeings of fleeces, have been condemned by 
God, as Enoch tells us, how shall we please God while we joy in the things of 
those (angels) who, on these accounts, have provoked the anger and the vengeance 
of God? 
Now, granting that God did foresee these things; that God permitted them; 
that Esaias finds fault with no garment of purple, represses no coil, reprobates 
no crescent-shaped neck ornaments; still let us not, as the Gentiles do, flatter 
ourselves with thinking that God is merely a Creator, not likewise a Downlooker 
on His own creatures. For how far more usefully and cautiously shall we act, if 
we hazard the presumption that all these things were indeed provided at the 
beginning and placed in the world by God, in order that there should now be 
means of putting to the proof the discipline of His servants, in order that the 
licence of using should be the means whereby the experimental trials of 
continence should be conducted? Do not wise heads of families purposely offer 
and permit some things to their servants in order to try whether and how they 
will use the things thus permitted whether (they will do so) with honesty, or 
with moderation? But how far more praiseworthy (the servant) who abstains 
entirely; who has a wholesome fear even of his lord's indulgence! Thus, 
therefore, the apostle too: "All things," says he, "are lawful, but not all are 
expedient." How much more easily will he fear what is unlawful who has a 
reverent dread of what is lawful? 
CHAPTER XI.--CHRISTIAN WOMEN, FURTHER, HAVE NOT THE SAME CAUSES FOR APPEARING 
IN PUBLIC, AND HENCE FOR DRESSING IN FINE ARRAY AS GENTILES. ON THE CONTRARY, 
THEIR APPEARANCE SHOULD ALWAYS DISTINGUISH THEM FROM SUCH. 
Moreover, what causes have you for appearing in public in excessive grandeur, 
removed as you are from the occasions which call for such exhibitions? For you 
neither make the circuit of the temples, nor demand (to be present at) public 
shows, nor have any acquaintance with the holy days of the Gentiles. Now it is 
for the sake of all these public gatherings, and of much seeing and being seen, 
that all pomps (of dress) are exhibited before the public eye; either for the 
purpose of transacting the trade of voluptuousness, or else of inflating 
"glory." You, however, have no cause of appearing in public, except such as is 
serious. Either some brother who is sick is visited, or else the sacrifice is 
offered, or else the word of God is dispensed. 
Whichever of these you like to name is a business of sobriety and sanctity, 
requiring no extraordinary attire, with (studious) arrangement and (wanton) 
negligence. And if the requirements of Gentile friendships and of kindly offices 
call you, why not go forth clad in your own armour; (and) all the more, in that 
(you have to go) to such as are strangers to the faith? so that between the 
handmaids of God and of the devil there may be a difference; so that you may be 
an example to them, and they may be edified in you; so that (as the apostle 
says) "God may be magnified in your body." But magnified He is in the body 
through modesty: of course, too, through attire suitable to modesty. Well, but 
it is urged by some, "Let not the Name be blasphemed in us, if we make any 
derogatory change from our old style and dress." Let us, then, not abolish our 
old vices! let us maintain the same character, if we must maintain the same 
appearance (as before); and then truly the nations will not blaspheme! A grand 
blasphemy is that by which it is said, "Ever since she became a Christian, she 
walks in poorer garb!" Will you fear to appear poorer, from the time that you 
have been made more wealthy; and fouler, from the time when you have been made 
more clean? Is it according to the decree of Gentiles, or according to the 
decree of God, that it becomes Christians to walk? 
CHAPTER XII.--SUCH OUTWARD ADORNMENTS MERETRICIOUS, AND THEREFORE UNSUITABLE 
TO MODEST WOMEN. 
Let us only wish that we may be no cause for just blasphemy! But how much 
more provocative of blasphemy is it that you, who are called modesty's 
priestesses, should appear in public decked and painted out after the manner of 
the immodest? Else, (if you so do,) what inferiority would the poor unhappy 
victims of the public lusts have (beneath you)? whom, albeit some laws were 
(formerly) wont to restrain them from (the use of) matrimonial and matronly 
decorations, now, at all events, the daily increasing depravity of the age has 
raised so nearly to an equality with all the most honourable women, that the 
difficulty is to distinguish them. And yet, even the Scriptures suggest (to us 
the reflection), that meretricious attractivenesses of form are invariably 
conjoined with and appropriate to bodily prostitution. That powerful state which 
presides over the seven mountains and very many waters, has merited from the 
Lord the appellation of a prostitute. But what kind of garb is the instrumental 
mean of her comparison with that appellation? She sits, to be sure, "in purple, 
and scarlet, and gold, and precious stone." How accursed are the things without 
(the aid of) which an accursed prostitute could not have been described! It was 
the fact that Thamar "had painted out and adorned herself" that led Judah to 
regard her as a harlot, and thus, because she was hidden beneath her 
"veil,"--the quality of her garb belying her as if she had been a harlot,--he 
judged (her to be one), and addressed and bargained with (her as such). Whence 
we gather an additional confirmation of the lesson, that provision must be made 
in every way. against all immodest associations and suspicions. For why is the 
integrity of a chaste mind defiled by its neighbour's suspicion? Why is a thing 
from which I am averse hoped for in me? Why does not my garb pre-announce my 
character, to prevent my spirit from being wounded by shamelessness through (the 
channel of) nay ears? Grant that it be lawful to assume the appearance of a 
modest woman: to assume that of an immodest is, at all events, not lawful. 
CHAP.XIII.--IT IS NOT ENOUGH THAT GOD KNOW US TO BE CHASTE: WE MUST SEEM SO 
BEFORE MEN. ESPECIALLY IN THESE TIMES OF PERSECUTION WE MUST INURE OUR BODIES TO 
THE HARDSHIPS WHICH THEY MAY NOT IMPROBABLY BE CALLED TO SUFFER. 
Perhaps some (woman) will say: "To me it is not necessary to be approved by 
men; for I do not require the testimony of men: God is the inspector of the 
heart." (That) we all know; provided, however, we remember what the same (God) 
has said through the apostle: "Let your probity appear before men." For what 
purpose, except that malice may have no access at all to you, or that you may be 
an example and testimony to the evil? Else, what is (that): "Let your works 
shine?" Why, moreover, does the Lord call us the light of the world; why has He 
compared us to a city built upon a mountain; if we do not shine in (the midst 
of) darkness, and stand eminent amid them who are sunk down? If you hide your 
lamp beneath a bushel, you must necessarily be left quite in darkness, and be 
run against by many. The things which make us luminaries of the world are 
these--our good works. What is good, moreover, provided it be true and full, 
loves not darkness: it joys in being seen, and exults over the very pointings 
which are made at it. To Christian modesty it is not enough to be so, but to 
seem so too. For so great ought its plenitude to be, that it may flow out from 
the mind to the garb, and burst out from the conscience to the outward 
appearance; so that even from the outside it may gaze, as it were, upon its own 
furniture,-- (a furniture) such as to be suited to retain faith as its inmate 
perpetually. For such delicacies as tend by their softness and effeminacy to 
unman the manliness of faith are to be discarded. Otherwise, I know not whether 
the wrist that has been wont to be surrounded with the palmleaf-like bracelet 
will endure till it grow into the numb hardness of its own chain! I know not 
whether the leg that has rejoiced in the anklet will suffer itself to be 
squeezed into the gyve! I fear the neck, beset with pearl and emerald nooses, 
will give no room to the broadsword! Wherefore, blessed (sisters), let us 
meditate on hardships, and we shall not feel them; let us abandon luxuries, and 
we shall not regret them. Let us stand ready to endure every violence, having 
nothing which we may fear to leave behind. It is these things which are the 
bonds which retard our hope. Let us cast away earthly ornaments if we desire 
heavenly. Love not gold; in which (one substance) are branded all the sins of 
the people of Israel. You ought to hate what mined your fathers; what was adored 
by them who were forsaking God. Even then (we find) gold is food for the fire. 
But Christians always, and now more than ever, pass their times not in gold but 
in iron: the stoles of martyrdom are (now) preparing: the angels who are to 
carry us are (now) being awaited! Do you go forth (to meet them) already arrayed 
in the cosmetics and ornaments of prophets and apostles; drawing your whiteness 
from simplicity, your ruddy hue from modesty; painting your eyes with 
bashfulness, and your mouth with silence; implanting in your ears the words of 
God; fitting on your necks the yoke of Christ. Submit your head to your 
husbands, and you will be enough adorned. Busy your hands with spinning; keep 
your feet at home; and you will "please" better than (by arraying yourselves) in 
gold. Clothe yourselves with the silk of uprightness, the fine linen of 
holiness, the purple of modesty. Thus painted, you will have God as your Lover! 
[TRANSLATED BY THE REV. S. THELWALL.] 

