
Tertullian












TERTULLIAN 
THE PRESCRIPTION AGAINST HERETICS. 
[TRANSLATED BY THE REV. PETER HOLMES, D.D., F.R.A.S., ETC., 
ETC.]
CHAP. I.--INTRODUCTORY. HERESIES MUST EXIST, AND EVEN ABOUND; THEY ARE A 
PROBATION TO FAITH.
THE character of the times in which we live is such as to call forth from us 
even this admonition, that we ought not to be astonished at the heresies (which 
abound) neither ought their existence to surprise us, for it was foretold that 
they should come to pass; nor the fact that they subvert the faith of some, for 
their final cause is, by affording a trial to faith, to give it also the 
opportunity of being "approved." Groundless, therefore, and inconsiderate is the 
offence of the many who are scandalized by the very fact that heresies prevail 
to such a degree. How great (might their offence have been) if they had not 
existed. When it has been determined that a thing must by all means be, it 
receives the (final) cause for which it has its being. This secures the power 
through which it exists, in such a way that it is impossible for it not to have 
existence. 
CHAP, II.--ANALOGY BETWEEN FEVERS AND HERESIES. HERESIES NOT TO BE 
WONDERED AT: THEIR STRENGTH DERIVED FROM WEAKNESS OF MEN'S FAITH. THEY HAVE NOT 
THE TRUTH. SIMILE OF PUGILISTS AND GLADIATORS IN ILLUSTRATION.
Taking the similar case of fever, which is appointed a place amongst all 
other deadly and excruciating issues (of life) for destroying man: we are not 
surprised either that it exists, for there it is, or that it consumes man, for 
that is the purpose of its existence. In like manner, with respect to heresies, 
which are produced for the weakening and the extinction of faith, since we feel 
a dread because they have this power, we should first dread the fact of their 
existence; for as long as they exist, they have they have their power; and as 
long as they have their power, they, have their existence. But still fever, as 
being an evil both in its cause and in its power, as all know, we rather loathe 
than wonder at, and to the best of our power guard against, not having its 
extirpation in our power. Some men prefer wondering at heresies, however, which 
bring with them eternal death and the heat of a stronger fire, for possessing 
this power, instead of avoiding their power when they have the means of escape: 
but heresies would have no power, if (men) would cease to wonder that they have 
such power. For it either happens that, while men wonder, they fall into a 
snare, or, because they are ensnared, they cherish their surprise, as if 
heresies 244 
were so powerful because of some truth which belonged to them. It would no 
doubt be a wonderful thing that evil should have any force of its own, were it 
not that heresies are strong in those persons who are not strong in faith. In a 
combat of boxers and gladiators, generally speaking, it is not because a man is 
strong that he gains the victory, or loses it because he is not strong, but 
because he who is vanquished was a man of no strength; and indeed this very 
conqueror, when afterwards matched against a really powerful man, actually 
retires crest-fallen from the contest. In precisely the same way, heresies 
derive such strength as they have from the infirmities of individuals--having no 
strength whenever they encounter a really powerful faith. 
CHAP. III.--WEAK PEOPLE FALL AN EASY PREY TO HERESY, WHICH DERIVES 
STRENGTH FROM THE GENERAL FRAILTY OF MANKIND. EMINENT MEN HAVE FALLEN 
FROM FAITH; SAUL, DAVID, SOLOMON.THE CONSTANCY OF CHRIST.
It is usual, indeed, with persons of a weaker character, to be so built up 
(in confidence) by certain individuals who are caught by heresy, as to topple 
over into ruin themselves. How comes it to pass, (they ask), that this woman or 
that man, who were the most faithful, the most prudent, and the most approved in 
the church, have gone over to the other side? Who that asks such a question does 
not in fact reply to it himself, to the effect that men whom heresies have been 
able to pervert ought never to have been esteemed prudent, or faithful, or 
approved? This again is, I suppose, an extraordinary thing, that one who has 
been approved should afterwards fall back? Saul, who was good beyond all others, 
is afterwards subverted by envy. David, a good man "after the Lord's own heart," 
is guilty afterwards of murder and adultery. Solomon, endowed by the Lord with 
all grace and wisdom, is led into idolatry, by women. For to the Son of God 
alone was it reserved to persevere to the last without sin. But what if a 
bishop, if a deacon, if a widow, if a virgin, if a doctor, if even a martyr, 
have fallen from the rule (of faith), will heresies on that account appear to 
possess the truth? Do we prove the faith by the persons, or the persons by the 
faith? No one is wise, no one is faithful, no one excels in dignity, but the 
Christian; and no one is a Christian but he who perseveres even to the end. You, 
as a man, know any other man from the outside appearance. You think as you see. 
And you see as far only as you have eyes. But says (the Scripture), "the eyes of 
the Lord are lofty." "Man looketh at the outward appearance, but God looketh at 
the heart." "The Lord (beholdeth and) knoweth them that are His;" and "the plant 
which (my heavenly Father) hath not planted, He rooteth up;" and "the first 
shall," as He shows, "be last;" and He carries "His fan in His hand to purge His 
threshing-floor." Let the chaff of a fickle faith fly off as much as it will at 
every blast of temptation, all the purer will be that heap of corn which shall 
be laid up in the garner of the Lord. Did not certain of the disciples turn back 
from the Lord Himself, When they were offended? Yet the rest did not therefore 
think that they must turn away from following Him, but because they knew that He 
was the Word of Life, and was come from God, they continued in His company to 
the very last, after He had gently inquired of them whether they also would go 
away. It is a comparatively small thing, that certain men, like Phygellus, and 
Hermogenes, and Philetus, and Hymenaeus, deserted His apostle: the betrayer of 
Christ was himself one of the apostles. We are surprised at seeing His churches 
forsaken by some men, although the things which we suffer after the example of 
Christ Himself, show us to be Christians. "They went out from us," says (St. 
John,) "but they were not of us. If they had been of us, they would no doubt 
have continued with us." 
CHAP. IV.--WARNINGS AGAINST HERESY GIVEN US IN THE NEW TESTAMENT. SUNDRY 
PASSAGES ADDUCED. THESE IMPLY THE POSSIBILITY OF FALLING INTO HERESY.
But let us rather be mindful of the sayings of the Lord, and of the letters 
of the apostles; 245 
for they have both told us beforehand that there shall be heresies, and have 
given us, in anticipation, warnings to avoid them; and inasmuch as we are not 
alarmed because they exist, so we ought not to wonder that they are capable of 
doing that, on account of which they must be shunned. The Lord teaches us that 
many "ravening wolves shall come in sheep's clothing." Now, what are these 
sheep's clothing's, but the external surface of the Christian profession? Who 
are the ravening wolves but those deceitful senses and spirits which are lurking 
within to waste the flock of Christ? Who are the false prophets but deceptive 
predictors of the future? Who are the false apostles but the preachers of a 
spurious gospel? Who also are the Antichrists, both now and evermore, but the 
men who rebel against Christ? Heresies, at the present time, will no less rend 
the church by their perversion of doctrine, than will Antichrist persecute her 
at that day by the cruelty of his attacks, except that persecution makes even 
martyrs, (but) heresy only apostates. And therefore "heresies must needs be in 
order that they which are approved might be made manifest, both those who 
remained stedfast under persecution, and those who did not wander out of their 
way into heresy. For the apostle does not mean that those persons should be 
deemed approved who exchange their creed for heresy; although they contrariously 
interpret his words to their own side, when he says in another passage, "Prove 
all things; hold fast that which is good;" as if, after proving all things 
amiss, one might not through error make a determined choice of some evil thing. 
CHAP. V.--HERESY, AS WELL AS SCHISM AND DISSENSION, DISAPPROVED BY ST. 
PAUL, WHO SPEAKS OF THE NECESSITY OF HERESIES, NOT AS A GOOD, BUT, BY THE WILL 
OF GOD, SALUTARY TRIALS FOR TRAINING AND APPROVING THE FAITH OF 
CHRISTIANS.
Moreover, when he blames dissensions and schisms, which undoubtedly are 
evils, he immediately adds heresies likewise. Now, that which he subjoins to 
evil things, he of course confesses to be itself an evil; and all the greater, 
indeed, because he tells us that his belief of their schisms and dissensions was 
grounded on his knowledge that "there must be heresies also." For he shows us 
that it was owing to the prospect of the greater evil that he readily believed 
the existence of the lighter ones; and so far indeed was he from believing, in 
respect of evils (of such a kind), that heresies were good, that his object was 
to forewarn us that we ought not to be surprised at temptations of even a worse 
stamp, since (he said) they tended "to make manifest all such as were approved;" 
in other words, those whom they were unable to pervert. In short, since the 
whole passage points to the maintenance of unity and the checking of divisions, 
inasmuch as heresies sever men from unity no less than schisms and dissensions, 
no doubt he classes heresies under the same head of censure as he does schisms 
also and dissensions. And by so doing, he makes those to be "not approved," who 
have fallen into heresies; more especially when with reproofs he exhorts men to 
turn away from such, teaching them that they should "all speak and think the 
selfsame thing," the very object which heresies do not permit. 
CHAP. VI.--HERETICS ARE SELF-CONDEMNED. HERESY. IS SELF-WILL, WHILST FAITH 
IS SUBMISSION OF OUR WILL TO THE DIVINE AUTHORITY. THE HERESY OF APELLES.
On this point, however, we dwell no longer, since it is the same Paul who, in 
his Epistle to the Galatians, counts "heresies" among "the sins of the flesh," 
who also intimates to Titus, that "a man who is a heretic" must be "rejected 
after the first admonition," on the ground that "he that is such is perverted, 
and committeth sin, as a self-condemned man." Indeed, in almost every epistle, 
when enjoining on us (the duty) of avoiding false doctrines, he sharply condemns 
heresies. Of these the practical effects are false doctrines, called in Greek 
heresies, a word used in the sense of that choice which a man makes when he 
either teaches them (to others) or takes up with them (for himself). For this 
reason it is that he calls the heretic condemned, because he has himself chosen 
that 246 
for which he is condemned. We, however, are not permitted to cherish any 
object after our own will, nor yet to make choice of that which another has 
introduced of his private fancy. In the Lord's apostles we possess our 
authority; for even they did not of themselves choose to introduce anything, but 
faithfully delivered to the nations (of mankind) the doctrine which they had 
received from Christ. If, therefore, even "an angel from heaven should preach 
any other gospel" (than theirs), he would be called accursed 
by us. The Holy Ghost had even then foreseen that there would be in a certain 
virgin (called) Philumene an angel of deceit, "transformed into an angel of 
light," by whose miracles and illusions Apelles was led (when) he introduced his 
new heresy. 
CHAP. VII.--PAGAN PHILOSOPHY THE PARENT OF HERESIES. THE CONNECTION 
BETWEEN DEFLECTIONS FROM CHRISTIAN FAITH AND THE OLD SYSTEMS OF PAGAN 
PHILOSOPHY,
These are "the doctrines" of men and "of demons" produced for itching ears of 
the spirit of this world's wisdom: this the Lord called "foolishness," and 
"chose the foolish things of the world" to confound even philosophy itself. For 
(philosophy) it is which is the material of the world's wisdom, the rash 
interpreter of the nature and the dispensation of God. Indeed heresies are 
themselves instigated by philosophy. From this source came the AEons, and I 
known not what infinite forms, and the trinity of man in the system of 
Valentinus, who was of Plato's school. From the same source came Marcion's 
better god, with all his tranquillity; he came of the Stoics. Then, again, the 
opinion that the soul dies is held by the Epicureans; while the denial of the 
restoration of the body is taken from the aggregate school of all the 
philosophers; also, when matter is made equal to God, then you have the teaching 
of Zeno; and when any doctrine is alleged touching a god of fire, then 
Heraclitus comes in. The same subject-matter is discussed over and over again by 
the heretics and the philosophers; the same arguments are involved. Whence comes 
evil? Why is it permitted? What is the origin of man? and in what way does he 
come? Besides the question which Valentinus has very lately proposed--Whence 
comes God? Which he settles with the answer: From enthymesis and ectroma. 
Unhappy Aristotle! who invented for these men dialectics, the art of building up 
and pulling down; an art so evasive in its propositions, so far-fetched in its 
conjectures, so harsh, in its arguments, so productive of 
contentions--embarrassing even to itself, retracting everything, and really 
treating of nothing! Whence spring those "fables and endless genealogies," and 
"unprofitable questions," and "words which spread like a cancer?" From all 
these, when the apostle would restrain us, he expressly names philosophy as that 
which he would have us be on our guard against. Writing to the Colossians, he 
says, "See that no one beguile you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the 
tradition of men, and contrary to the wisdom of the Holy Ghost." He had been at 
Athens, and had in his interviews (with its philosophers) become acquainted with 
that human wisdom which pretends to know the truth, whilst it only corrupts it, 
and is itself divided into its own manifold heresies, by the variety of its 
mutually repugnant sects. What indeed has Athens to do with Jerusalem? What 
concord is there between the Academy and the Church? what between heretics and 
Christians? Our instruction comes from "the porch of Solomon," who had himself 
taught that "the Lord should be sought in simplicity of heart." 
Away with all attempts to produce a mottled Christianity of Stoic, Platonic, 
and dialectic composition! We want no curious disputation after possessing 
Christ Jesus, no inquisition after enjoying the gospel! With our faith, we 
desire no further belief. For this is our palmary faith, that there is nothing 
which we ought to believe besides. 
247 
CHAP. VIII.--CHRIST'S WORD, SEEK, AND YE SHALL FIND, NO WARRANT FOR 
HERETICAL DEVIATIONS FROM THE FAITH. ALL CHRIST'S WORDS TO THE JEWS ARE FOR US, 
NOT INDEED AS SPECIFIC COMMANDS, BUT AS PRINCIPLES TO BE APPLIED.
I come now to the point which (is urged both by our own brethren and by the 
heretics). Our brethren adduce it as a pretext for entering on curious 
inquiries, and the heretics insist on it for importing the scrupulosity (of 
their unbelief). It is written, they say, "Seek, and ye shall find." Let us 
remember at what time the Lord said this. I think it was at the very outset of 
His teaching, when there was still a doubt felt by all whether He were the 
Christ, and when even Peter had not yet declared Him to be the Son of God, and 
John (Baptist) had actually ceased to feel assurance about Him. With good 
reason, therefore, was it then said, "Seek, and ye shall find," when inquiry was 
still be to made of Him who was not yet become known. Besides, this was said in 
respect of the Jews. For it is to them that the whole matter of this reproof 
pertains, seeing that they had (a revelation) where they might seek Christ. 
"They have," says He, "Moses and Elias,"--in other words, the law and the 
prophets, which preach Christ; as also in another place He says plainly, "Search 
the Scriptures, in which ye expect (to find) salvation; for they testify of me;" 
which will be the meaning of "Seek, and ye shall find." For it is clear that the 
next words also apply to the Jews: "Knock, and it shall be opened unto you." The 
Jews had formerly been in covenant with God; but being afterwards cast off on 
account of their sins, they began to be without God. The Gentiles, on the 
contrary, had never been in covenant with God; they were only as "a drop from a 
bucket," and "as dust from the threshing floor, and were ever outside the door. 
Now, how shall he who was always outside knock at the place where he never was? 
What door does he know of, when he has passed through none, either by entrance 
or ejection? Is it not rather he who is aware that he once lived within and was 
thrust out, that (probably) found the door and knocked thereat? In like manner, 
"Ask, and ye shall receive," is suitably said to one who was aware from whom he 
ought to ask,--by whom also some promise had been given; that is to say, "the 
God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob." Now, the Gentiles knew nothing either 
of Him, or of any of His promises. Therefore it was to Israel that he spake when 
He said, "I am not sent but to the lost sheep of the house of Israel." Not yet 
had He "cast to the dogs the children's bread;" not yet did He charge them to 
"go into the way of the Gentiles." It is only at the last that He instructs them 
to "go and teach all nations, and baptize them," when they were so soon to 
receive "the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, who should guide them into all the 
truth." And this, too, makes towards the the same conclusion. 
If the apostles, who were ordained to be teachers to the Gentiles, were 
themselves to have the Comforter for their teacher, far more needless was it to 
say to us, "Seek, and ye shall find," to whom was to come, without research, our 
instruction by the apostles, and to the apostles themselves by the Holy Ghost. 
All the Lord's sayings, indeed, are set forth for all men; through the ears of 
the Jews have they passed on to us. Still most of them were addressed to Jewish 
persons; they therefore did not constitute instruction properly designed for 
ourselves, but rather an example. 
CHAP. IX.--THE RESEARCH AFTER DEFINITE TRUTH ENJOINED ON US. WHEN WE HAVE 
DISCOVERED THIS, WE SHOULD BE CONTENT.
I now purposely relinquish this ground of argument. Let it be granted, that 
the words, "Seek, and ye shall find," were addressed to all men (equally). Yet 
even here one's aim is carefully to determine the sense of the words 
consistently with (that reason), which is the guiding principle in all 
interpretation. (Now) no divine saying is so unconnected 
248 
and diffuse, that its words only are to be insisted on, and their connection 
left undetermined. But at the outset I lay down (this position) that there is 
some one, and therefore definite, thing taught by Christ, which the Gentiles are 
by all means bound to believe, and for that purpose to "seek," in order that 
they may be able, when they have "found" it, to believe. However, there can be 
no indefinite seeking for that which has been taught as one only definite thing. 
You must "seek" until you "find," and believe when you have found; nor have you 
anything further to do but to keep what you have believed provided you believe 
this besides, that nothing else is to be believed, and therefore nothing else is 
to be sought, after you have found and believed what has been taught by Him who 
charges you to seek no other thing than that which He has taught. When, indeed, 
any man doubts about this, proof will be forthcoming, that we have in our 
possession that which was taught by Christ. Meanwhile, such is my confidence in 
our proof, that I anticipate it, in the shape of an admonition to certain 
persons, not "to seek" anything beyond what they have believed--that this is 
what they ought to have sought, how to avoid interpreting, "Seek, and ye shall 
find," without regard to the rule of reason. 
CHAP. X.--ONE HAS SUCCEEDED IN FINDING DEFINITE TRUTH, WHEN HE BELIEVES. 
HERETICAL WITS ARE ALWAYS OFFERING MANY THINGS FOR VAIN DISCUSSION, BUT WE ARE 
NOT TO BE ALWAYS SEEKING.
Now the reason of this saying is comprised in three points: in the matter, in 
the time, in the limit. In the matter, so that you must consider what it is you 
have to seek; in the time, when you have to seek; in the limit, how long. What 
you have "to seek," then, is that which Christ has taught, (and you must go on 
seeking) of course for such time as you fail to find,--until indeed you find it. 
But you have succeeded in finding when you have believed. For you would not have 
believed if you had not found; as neither would you have sought except with a 
view to find. Your object, therefore, in seeking was to find; and your object in 
finding was to believe, All further delay for seeking and finding you have 
prevented by believing. The very fruit of your seeking has determined for you 
this limit. This boundary has He set for you Himself, who is unwilling that you 
should believe anything else than what He has taught, or, therefore, even seek 
for it. If, however, because so many other things have been taught by one and 
another, we are on that account bound to go on seeking, so long as we are able 
to find anything, we must (at that rate) be ever seeking, and never believe 
anything at all. For where shall be the end of seeking? where the stop's in 
believing? where the completion in finding? (Shall it be) with Marcion? But even 
Valentinus proposes (to us the) 
maxim, "Seek, and ye shall find." Then shall it be) with Valentinus? Well, 
but Apelles, too, will assail me with the same quotation; Hebion also, and 
Simon, and all in turn, have no other argument wherewithal to entice me, and 
draw me over to their side. Thus I shall be nowhere, and still be encountering 
(that challenge), "Seek, and ye shall find," precisely as if I had no 
resting-place; as if (indeed) I had never found that which Christ has 
taught--that which ought to be sought, that which must needs be believed. 
CHAP. XI.--AFTER WE HAVE BELIEVED, SEARCH SHOULD CEASE; OTHERWISE IT MUST 
END IN A DENIAL OF WHAT WE HAVE BELIEVED. NO OTHER OBJECT PROPOSED FOR OUR 
FAITH.
There is impunity in erring, if there is no delinquency; although indeed to 
err it is itself an act of delinquency. With impunity, I repeat, does a man 
ramble, when he (purposely) deserts nothing. But yet, if I have believed what I 
was bound to believe, and then afterwards think that there is something new to 
be sought after, I of course expect that there is something else to be found, 
although I should by no means entertain such 249 
expectation, unless it were because I either had not believed, although I 
apparently had become a believer, or else have ceased to believe. If I thus 
desert my faith, I am found to be a denier thereof. Once for all I would say, No 
man seeks, except him who either never possessed, or else has lost (what he 
sought). The old woman (in the Gospel) had lost one of her ten pieces of silver, 
and therefore she sought it; when, however, she found it, she ceased to look for 
it. The neighbour was without bread, and therefore he knocked; but as soon as 
the door was opened to him, and he received the bread, he discontinued knocking. 
The widow kept asking to be heard by the judge, because she was not admitted; 
but when her suit was heard, thenceforth she was silent. So that there is a 
limit both to seeking, and to knocking, and to asking. "For to every one that 
asketh," says He, "it shall be given, and to him that knocketh it shall be 
opened, and by him that seeketh it shall be found." Away with the man who is 
ever seeking because he never finds; for he seeks there where nothing can be 
found. Away with him who is always knocking because it will never be opened to 
him; for he knocks where there is none (to open). Away with him who is always 
asking because he will never be heard; for he asks of one who does not hear. 
CHAP. XII.--A PROPER SEEKING AFTER DIVINE KNOWLEDGE, WHICH WILL 
NEVER BE OUT OF PLACE OR EXCESSIVE, IS ALWAYS WITHIN THE RULE OF FAITH.
As for us, although we must still seek, and that always, yet where ought our 
search to be made? Amongst the heretics, where all things are foreign and 
opposed to our own verity, and to whom we are forbidden to draw near? What slave 
looks for food from a stranger, not to say an enemy of his master? What soldier 
expects to get bounty and pay from kings who are unallied, I might almost say 
hostile--unless forsooth he be a deserter, and a runaway, and a rebel? Even that 
old woman searched for the piece of silver within her own house. It was also at 
his neighbour's door that the persevering assailant kept knocking. Nor was it to 
a hostile judge, although a severe one, that the widow made her appeal. No man 
gets instruction from that which tends to destruction. No man receives 
illumination from a quarter where all is darkness. Let our "seeking," therefore 
be in that which is our own, and from those who are our own: and concerning that 
which is our own,--that, and only that, which can become an object of inquiry 
without impairing the rule of faith. 
CHAP. XIII.--SUMMARY OF THE CREED, OR RULE OF FAITH. NO QUESTIONS EVER 
RAISED ABOUT IT BY BELIEVERS. HERETICS ENCOURAGE AND pERPETUATE THOUGHT 
INDEPENDENT OF CHRIST'S TEACHING.
Now, with regard to this rule of faith--that we may from this point 
acknowledge what it is which we defend--it is, you must know, that which 
prescribes the belief that there is one only God, and that He is none other than 
the Creator of the world, who produced all things out of nothing through His own 
Word, first of all sent forth; that this Word is called His Son, and, under the 
name of God, was seen "in diverse manners" by the patriarchs, heard at all times 
in the prophets, at last brought down by the Spirit and Power of the Father into 
the Virgin Mary, was made flesh in her womb, and, being born of her, went forth 
as Jesus Christ; thenceforth He preached the new law and the new promise of the 
kingdom of heaven, worked miracles; having been crucified, He rose again the 
third day; (then) having ascended into the heavens, He sat at the right hand of 
the Father; sent instead of Himself the Power of the Holy Ghost to lead such as 
believe; will come with glory to take the saints to the enjoyment of everlasting 
life and of the heavenly promises, and to condemn the wicked to everlasting 
fire, after the resurrection of both these classes shall have happened, together 
with the restoration of their flesh. This rule, as it will be proved, was taught 
by Christ, and raises amongst ourselves no other questions than those which 
heresies introduce, and which make men heretics. 
CHAP. XIV.--CURIOSITY OUGHT NOT RANGE BEYOND THE RULE OF FAITH. 
RESTLESS CURIOSITY, THE FEATURE OF HERESY.
So long, however, as its form exists in its proper order, you may seek and 
discuss as 250 
much as you please, and give full rein to your curiosity, in whatever seems 
to you to hang in doubt, or to be shrouded in obscurity. You have at hand, no 
doubt, some learned brother gifted with the grace of knowledge, some one of the 
experienced class, some one of your close acquaintance who is curious like 
yourself; although with yourself, a seeker he will, after all, be quite aware 
that it is better for you to remain in ignorance, lest you should come to know 
what you ought not, because you have acquired the knowledge of what you ought to 
know. "Thy faith," He says, "hath saved thee" not observe your skill in the 
Scriptures. Now, faith has been deposited in the rule; it has a law, and (in the 
observance thereof) salvation. Skill, 
however, consists in curious art, having for its glory simply the readiness 
that comes from knack. Let such curious art give place to faith; let such glory 
yield to salvation. At any rate, let them either relinquish their noisiness. or 
else be quiet. To know nothing in opposition to the rule (of faith), is to know 
all things. (Suppose) that heretics were not enemies to the truth, so that we 
were not forewarned to avoid them, what sort of conduct would it be to agree 
with men who do themselves confess that they are still seeking? For if they are 
still seeking, they have not as yet found anything amounting to certainty; and 
therefore, whatever they seem for a while to hold, they betray their own 
scepticism, whilst they continue seeking. You therefore, who seek after their 
fashion, looking to those who are themselves ever seeking, a doubter to 
doubters, a waverer to waverers, must needs be "led, blindly by the blind, down 
into the ditch." But when, for the sake of deceiving us, they pretend that they 
are still seeking, in order that they may palm their essays upon us by the 
suggestion of an anxious sympathy,--when, in short (after gaining an access to 
us), they proceed at once to insist on the necessity of our inquiring into such 
points as they were in the habit of advancing, then it is high time for us in 
moral obligation to repel them, so that they may know that it is not Christ, but 
themselves, whom we disavow. For since they are still seekers, they have no 
fixed tenets yet; and being not fixed in tenet, they have not yet believed; and 
being not yet believers, they are not Christians. But even though they have 
their tenets and their belief, they still say that inquiry is necessary in order 
to discussion. Previous, however, to the discussion, they deny what they confess 
not yet to have believed, so long as they keep it an object of inquiry. When 
men, therefore, are not Christians even on their own admission, how much more 
(do they fail to appear such) to us! What sort of truth is that which they 
patronize, when they commend it to us with a lie? Well, but they actually treat 
of the Scriptures and recommend (their opinions) out of the Scriptures! To be 
sure they do. From what other source could they derive arguments concerning the 
things of the faith, except from the records of the faith? 
CHAP. XV.--HERETICS NOT TO BE ALLOWED TO ARGUE OUT OF THE SCRIPTURES. THE 
SCRIPTURES, IN FACT, DO NOT BELONG TO THEM.
We are therefore come to (the gist of) our position; for at this point we 
were aiming, and for this we were preparing in the preamble of our address 
(which we have just completed),--so that we may now join issue on the contention 
to which our adversaries challenge us. They put forward the Scriptures, and by 
this insolence of theirs they at once influence some. In the encounter itself, 
however, they weary the strong, they catch the weak, and dismiss waverers with a 
doubt. Accordingly, we oppose to them this step above ,all others, of not 
admitting them to any discussion of the Scriptures. 
If in these lie their resources, before they can use them, it ought to be 
clearly seen to whom belongs the possession of the Scriptures, that none may be 
admitted to the use thereof who has no title at all to the privilege. 
251 
CHAP. XVI.--APOSTOLIC SANCTION TO THIS EXCLUSION OF HERETICS FROM THE USE 
OF THE SCRIPTURES, HERETICS, ACCORDING TO THE APOSTLE, ARE NOT TO BE DISPUTED 
WITH, BUT TO BE ADMONISHED.
I might be thought to have laid down this position to remedy distrust in my 
case, or from a desire of entering on the contest in some other way, were there 
not reasons on my side, especially this, that our faith owes deference to the 
apostle, who forbids us to enter on "questions," or to lend our ears to 
new-fangled statements, or to consort with a heretic "after the first and second 
admonition," not, (be it observed,) after discussion. Discussion he has 
inhibited in this way, by designating admonition as the purpose of dealing with 
a heretic, and the first one too, because he is not a Christian; in order that 
he might not, after the manner of a Christian, seem to require correction again 
and again, and "before two or three witnesses," seeing that he ought to be 
corrected, for the very reason that he is not to be disputed with; and in the 
next place, because a controversy over the Scriptures can, clearly, produce no 
other effect than help to upset either the stomach or the brain. 
CHAP. XVII.--HERETICS, IN FACT, DO NOT USE BUT ONLY ABUSE, SCRIPTURE. NO 
COMMON GROUND BETWEEN THEM AND YOU.
Now this heresy of yours does not receive certain Scriptures; and whichever 
of them it does receive, it perverts by means of additions and diminutions, for 
the accomplishment of it own purpose; and such as it does receive, it receives 
not in their entirety; but even when it does receive any up to a certain point 
as entire, it nevertheless perverts even these by the contrivance of diverse 
interpretations. Truth is just as much opposed by an adulteration of its meaning 
as it is by a corruption of its text. Their vain presumptions must needs refuse 
to acknowledge the (writings) whereby they are refuted. They rely on those which 
they have falsely put together, and which they have selected, because their 
ambiguity. Though most skilled in the Scriptures, you will make no progress, 
when everything which you maintain is denied on the other side, and whatever you 
deny is (by them) maintained. As for yourself, indeed, you will lose nothing but 
your breath, and gain nothing but vexation from their blasphemy. 
CHAP. XVIII.--GREAT EVIL ENSUES TO THE WEAK IN FAITH, FROM ANY DISCUSSION 
OUT
OF THE SCRIPTURES. CONVICTION NEVER COMES TO THE HERETIC FROM SUCH A 
PROCESS.
But with respect to the man for whose sake you enter on the discussion of the 
Scriptures, with the view of strengthening him when afflicted with doubts, (let 
me ask) will it be to the truth, or rather to heretical opinions that he will 
lean? Influenced by the very fact that he sees you have made no progress, whilst 
the other side is on an equal footing (with yourself) in denying and in defence, 
or at any rate on a like standing he will go away confirmed in his uncertainty 
by the discussion, not knowing which side to adjudge heretical. For, no doubt, 
they too are able to retort these things on us. It is indeed a necessary 
consequence that they should go so far as to say that adulterations of the 
Scriptures, and false expositions thereof, are rather introduced by ourselves, 
inasmuch as they, no less than we maintain that truth is on their side. 
CHAP. XIX. APPEAL, IN DISCUSSION OF HERESY, LIES NOT TO THE SCRIPTURES. 
THE SCRIPTURES BELONG ONLY TO THOSE WHO HAVE THE RULE OF FAITH
Our appeal, therefore, must not be made to the Scriptures; nor must 
controversy be admitted on points in which victory will either be impossible, or 
uncertain, or not certain enough. But even if a discussion from the Scriptures 
should not turn out in such a way as to place both sides on a par, (yet) the 
natural order of things would require that this point should be first proposed, 
which is now the only one which we must discuss: "With whom lies that very faith 
to which the Scriptures belong. From what and through whom, and when, and to 
whom, has been handed down that rule, by which men become Christians?" For 
wherever it shall be manifest that the true Christian rule and faith shall be, 
252 
there will likewise be the true Scriptures and expositions thereof, and all 
the Christian traditions. 
CHAP. XX.--CHRIST FIRST DELIVERED THE FAITH. THE APOSTLES SPREAD IT; THEY 
FOUNDED CHURCHES AS THE DEPOSITORIES THEREOF. THAT FAITH, THEREFORE, IS 
APOSTOLIC, WHICH DESCENDED FROM THE APOSTLES, THROUGH APOSTOLIC CHURCHES.
Christ Jesus our Lord (may He bear with me a moment in thus expressing 
myself!), whosoever He is, of what God soever He is the Son, of what substance 
soever He is man and God, of what faith soever He is the, teacher, of what 
reward soever He is the Promiser, did, whilst He lived on earth, Himself declare 
what He was, what He had been, what the Father's will was which He was 
administering, what the duty of man was which He was prescribing; (and this 
declaration He made,) either openly to the people, or privately to His 
disciples, of whom He had chosen the twelve chief ones to be at His side, and 
whom He destined to be the teachers of the nations. Accordingly, after one of 
these had been struck off, He commanded the eleven others, on His departure to 
the Father, to "go and teach all nations, who were to be baptized into the 
Father, and into the Son, and into the Holy Ghost." Immediately, therefore, so 
did the apostles, whom this designation indicates as "the sent." Having, on the 
authority of a prophecy, which occurs in a psalm of David, chosen Matthias by 
lot as the twelfth, into the place of Judas, they obtained the promised power of 
the Holy Ghost for the gift of miracles and of utterance; and after first 
bearing witness to the faith in Jesus Christ throughout Judaea, and rounding 
churches (there), they next went forth into the world and preached the same 
doctrine of the same faith to the nations. They then in like manner rounded 
churches in every city, from which all the other churches, one after another, 
derived the tradition of the faith, and the seeds of doctrine, and are every day 
deriving them, that they may become churches. Indeed, it is on this account only 
that they will be able to deem themselves apostolic, as being the offspring of 
apostolic churches. Every sort of thing must necessarily revert to its original 
for its classification. Therefore the churches, although they are so many and so 
great, comprise but the one primitive church, (rounded) by the apostles, from 
which they all (spring). In this way all are primitive, and all are apostolic, 
whilst they are all proved to be one, in (unbroken) unity, by their peaceful 
communion, and title of brotherhood, and bond of hospitality,--privileges which 
no other rule directs than the one tradition of the selfsame mystery. 
CHAP. XXI.--ALL DOCTRINE TRUE WHICH COMES THROUGH THE CHURCH FROM THE 
APOSTLES, WHO WERE TAUGHT BY GOD THROUGH CHRIST. ALL OPINION WHICH HAS NO 
SUCH DIVINE ORIGIN AND APOSTOLIC TRADITION TO SHOW, IS IPSO FACTO FALSE.
From this, therefore, do we draw up our rule. Since the Lord Jesus Christ 
sent the apostles to preach, (our rule is) that no others ought to be received 
as preachers than those whom Christ appointed; for "no man knoweth the Father 
save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal Him." Nor does the Son 
seem to have revealed Him to any other than the apostles, whom He sent forth to 
preach--that, of course, which He revealed to them. Now, what that was which 
they preached--in other words, what it was which Christ revealed to them--can, 
as I must here likewise prescribe, properly be proved in no other way than by 
those very churches which the apostles rounded in person, by declaring the 
gospel to them directly themselves, both rivet race, as the phrase is, and 
subsequently by their epistles. If, then, these things are so, it is in the same 
degree manifest that all doctrine which agrees with the apostolic 
churches--those moulds and original sources of the faith must be reckoned for 
truth, as undoubtedly containing that which the (said) churches received from 
the apostles, the apostles from Christ, Christ from God. Whereas all doctrine 
must be prejudged as false which savours of contrariety to the truth of the 
churches and apostles of Christ and God. It remains, then, that we demonstrate 
whether this doctrine of ours, of which we have now given the rule, has its 
origin in the tradition of the apostles, and whether all other doctrines do not 
ipso facto proceed from falsehood. We hold communion with the apostolic churches 
because our doctrine is in no respect 253 
different from theirs. This is our witness of truth. 
CHAP. XXII.--ATTEMPT TO INVALIDATE THIS RULE OF FAITH REBUTTED. THE 
APOSTLES SAFE TRANSMITTERS OF THE TRUTH. SUFFICIENTLY TAUGHT AT FIRST, AND 
FAITHFUL IN THE TRANSMISSION.
But inasmuch as the proof is so near at hand, that if it were at once 
produced there would be nothing left to be dealt with, let us give way for a 
while to the opposite side, if they think that they can find some means of 
invalidating this rule, just as if no proof were forthcoming from us. They 
usually tell us that the apostles did not know all things: (but herein) they are 
impelled by the same madness, whereby they turn round to the very opposite 
point, and declare that the apostles certainly knew all things, but did not 
deliver all things to all persons,--in either case exposing Christ to blame for 
having sent forth apostles who had either too much ignorance, or too little 
simplicity. What man, then, of sound mind can possibly suppose that they were 
ignorant of anything, whom the Lord ordained to be masters (or teachers), 
keeping them, as He did, inseparable (from Himself) in their attendance, in 
their discipleship, in their society, to whom, "when they were alone, He used to 
expound" all things which were obscure, telling them that "to them it was given 
to know those mysteries," which it was not permitted the people to understand? 
Was anything withheld from the knowledge of Peter, who is called "the rock on 
which the church should be built," who also obtained "the keys of the kingdom of 
heaven," with the power of "loosing and binding in heaven and on earth?" Was 
anything, again, concealed from John, the Lord's most beloved disciple, who used 
to lean on His breast to whom alone the Lord pointed Judas out as the traitor, 
whom He commended to Mary as a son in His own stead? Of what could He have meant 
those to be ignorant, to whom He even exhibited His own glory with Moses and 
Elias, and the Father's voice moreover, from heaven? Not as if He thus 
disapproved of all the rest, but because "by three witnesses must every word be 
established." After the same fashion, too, (I suppose,) were they ignorant to 
whom, after His resurrection also, He vouchsafed, as they were journeying 
together, "to expound all the Scriptures." No doubt He had once said, "I have 
yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot hear them now;" but even then He 
added, "When He, the Spirit of truth, shall come, He will lead you into all 
truth." He (thus) shows that there was nothing of which they were ignorant, to 
whom He had promised the future attainment of all truth by help of the Spirit of 
truth. And assuredly He fulfilled His promise, since it is proved in the Acts of 
the Apostles that the Holy Ghost did come down. Now they who reject that 
Scripture can neither belong to the Holy Spirit, seeing that they cannot 
acknowledge that the Holy Ghost has been sent as yet to the disciples, nor can 
they presume to claim to be a church themselves who positively have no means of 
proving when, and with what swaddling-clothes this body was established. Of so 
much importance is it to them not to have any proofs for the things which they 
maintain, lest along with them there be introduced damaging exposures of those 
things which they mendaciously devise. 
CHAP. XXIII.--THE APOSTLES NOT IGNORANT. THE HERETICAL PRETENCE OF ST. 
PETER'S IMPERFECTION BECAUSE HE WAS REBUKED BY ST. PAUL. ST. PETER NOT REBUKED 
FOR ERROR IN TEACHING.
Now, with the view of branding the apostles with some mark of ignorance, they 
put forth the case of Peter and them that were with him having been rebuked by 
Paul. "Something therefore," they say, "was wanting in them." (This they 
allege,) in order that they may from this construct that other position of 
theirs, that a fuller knowledge may possibly have afterwards come over (the 
apostles,) such as fell to the share of Paul when he rebuked those who preceded 
him. I may here say to those who reject The Acts of the Apostles: "It is first 
necessary that you shows us who this Paul was,--both what he was before he was 
an apostle, and how he became an apostle,"--so very great is the use which they 
make of him in respect of other 254 
questions also. It is true that he tells us himself that he was a persecutor 
before he became an apostle, still this is not enough for any man who examines 
before he believes, since even the Lord Himself did not bear witness of Himself. 
But let them believe without the Scriptures, if their object is to believe 
contrary to the Scriptures. Still they should show, from the circumstance which 
they allege of Peter's being rebuked by Paul, that Paul added yet another form 
of the gospel besides that which Peter and the rest had previously set forth. 
But the fact is, having been converted from a persecutor to a preacher, he is 
introduced as one of the brethren to brethren, by brethren--to them, indeed, by 
men who had put on faith from the apostles' hands. Afterwards, as he himself 
narrates, he "went up to Jerusalem for the purpose of seeing Peter," because of 
his office, no doubt, and by right of a common belief and preaching. Now they 
certainly would not have been surprised at his having become a preacher instead 
of a persecutor, if his preaching were of something contrary; nor, moreover, 
would they have "glorified the Lord," because Paul had presented himself as an 
adversary to Him They accordingly even gave him "the right hand of fellowship," 
as a sign of their agreement with him, and arranged amongst themselves a 
distribution of office, not a diversity of gospel, so that they should severally 
preach not a different gospel, but (the same), to different persons, Peter to 
the circumcision, Paul to the Gentiles. Forasmuch, then, as Peter was rebuked 
because, after he had lived with the Gentiles, he proceeded to separate himself 
from their company out of respect for persons, the fault surely was one of 
conversation, not of preaching. For it does not appear from this, that any other 
God than the Creator, or any other Christ than (the son) of Mary, or any other 
hope than the resurrection, was (by him) announced. 
CHAP. XXIV.--ST. PETER'S FURTHER VINDICATION. ST. PAUL NOT SUPERIOR 
TO ST. PETER IN TEACHING. NOTHING IMPARTED TO THE FORMER IN THE THIRD HEAVEN 
ENABLED HIM TO ADD TO THE FAITH. HERETICS BOAST AS IF FAVOURED WITH SOME OF 
THE SECRETS IMPARTED TO HIM.
I have not the good fortune, or, as I must rather say, I have not the 
unenviable task, of setting apostles by the ears. But, inasmuch as our very 
perverse cavillers obtrude the rebuke in question for the set purpose of 
bringing the earlier doctrine into suspicion, I will put in a defence, as it 
were, for Peter, to the effect that even Paul said that he was "made all things 
to all men--to the Jews a Jew," to those who were not Jews as one who was not a 
Jew--"that he might gain all." Therefore it was according to times and persons 
and causes that they used to censure certain practices, which they would not 
hesitate themselves to pursue, in like conformity to times and persons and 
causes. Just (e.g.) as if Peter too had censured Paul, because, whilst 
for-bidding circumcision, he actually circumcised Timothy himself. Never mind 
those who pass sentence on apostles! It is a happy fact that Peter is on the 
same level with Paul in the very glory of martyrdom. Now, although Paul was 
carried away even to the third heaven, and was caught up to paradise, and heard 
certain revelations there, yet these cannot possibly seem to have qualified him 
for (teaching) another doctrine, seeing that their very nature was such as to 
render them communicable to no human being. If, however, that unspeakable 
mystery did leak out, and become known to any man, and if any heresy affirms 
that it does itself follow the same, (then) either Paul must be charged with 
having betrayed the secret, or some other man must actually be shown to have 
been afterwards "caught up into paradise," who had permission to speak out 
plainly what Paul was not allowed (even) to mutter. 
CHAP. XXV.--THE APOSTLES DID NOT KEEP BACK ANY OF THE DEPOSIT OF DOCTRINE 
WHICH CHRIST HAD ENTRUSTED TO THEM. ST. PAUL OPENLY COMMITTED HIS
WHOLEDOCTRINE TO TIMOTHY.
But here is, as we have said, the same madness, in their allowing indeed that 
the apostles were ignorant of nothing, and preached not any (doctrines) which 
contradicted one another, but at the same time insisting that they did not 
reveal all to all men, for that they proclaimed some openly and to 255 
all the world, whilst they disclosed others (only) in secret and to a few, 
because Paul addressed even this expression to Timothy: "O Timothy, guard that 
which is entrusted to thee;" and again: "That good thing which was committed 
unto thee keep." What is this deposit? Is it so secret as to be supposed to 
characterize a new doctrine? or is it a part of that charge of which he says, 
"This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy?" and also of that precept of which 
he says, "I charge thee in the sight of God, who quickeneth all things, and 
before Jesus Christ who witnessed a good confession under Pontius Pilate, that 
thou keep this commandment?" Now, what is (this) commandment and what is (this) 
charge? From the preceding and the succeeding contexts, it will be manifest that 
there is no mysterious hint darkly suggested in this expression about (some) 
far-fetched doctrine, but that a warning is rather given against receiving any 
other (doctrine) than that which Timothy had heard from himself, as I take it 
publicly: "Before many witnesess" is his phrase. Now, if they refuse to allow 
that the church is meant by these "many witnesses," it matters nothing, since 
nothing could have been secret which was produced "before many witnesses." Nor, 
again, must the circumstance of his having wished him to "commit these things to 
faithful men, who should be able to teach others also," be construed into a 
proof of there being some occult gospel. For, when he says "these things," he 
refers to the things of which he is writing at the moment. In reference, 
however, to occult subjects, he would have called them, as being absent, those 
things, not these things, to one who had a joint knowledge of them with himself. 

CHAP. XXVI.--THE APOSTLES DID IN ALL CASES TEACH THE WHOLE TRUTH TO THE 
WHOLE CHURCH. NO RESERVATION, NOR PARTIAL COMMUNICATION TO FAVOURITE 
FRIENDS.
Besides which, it must have followed, that, for the man to whom he committed 
the ministration of the gospel, he would add the injunction that it be not 
ministered in all places, and without respect to persons, in accordance with the 
Lord's saying, "Not to cast one's pearls before swine, nor that which is holy 
unto dogs." Openly did the Lord speak, without any intimation of a hidden 
mystery. He had Himself commanded that, "whatsoever they had heard in darkness" 
and in secret, they should "declare in the light and on the house-tops." He had 
Himself fore-shown, by means of a parable, that they should not keep back in 
secret, fruitless of interest, a single pound, that is, one word of His. He used 
Himself to tell them that a candle was not usually "pushed away under a bushel, 
but placed on a candlestick," in order to "give light to all who are in the 
house." These things the apostles either neglected, or failed to understand, if 
they fulfilled them not, by concealing any portion of the light, that is, of the 
word of God and the mystery of Christ. Of no man, I am quite sure, were they 
afraid,--neither of Jews nor of Gentiles in their violence; with all the greater 
freedom, then, would they certainly preach in the church, who held not their 
tongue in synagogues and public places. Indeed they would have found it 
impossible either to convert Jews or to bring in Gentiles, unless they "set 
forth in order" that which they would have them believe. Much less, when 
churches were advanced in the faith, would they have withdrawn from them 
anything for the purpose of committing it separately to some few others. 
Although, even supposing that among intimate friends, so to speak, they did hold 
certain discussions, yet it is incredible that these could have been such as to 
bring in some other rule of faith, differing from and contrary to that which 
they were proclaiming through the Catholic churches,--as if they spoke of one 
God in the Church, (and) another at home, and described one substance of Christ, 
publicly, (and) another secretly, and announced one hope of the resurrection 
before all men, (and) another before the few; although they themselves, in their 
epistles, besought men that they would all speak one and the same thing, and 
that there should be no divisions and dissensions in the church, seeing that 256 

they, whether Paul or others, preached the same things. Moreover, they 
remembered the words): "Let your communication be yea, yea; nay, nay; for 
whatsoever is more than this cometh of evil;" so that they were not to handle 
the gospel in a diversity of treatment. 
CHAP. XXVII.--GRANTED THAT THE APOSTLES TRANSMITTED THE WHOLE DOCTRINE OF 
TRUTH, MAY NOT THE CHURCHES HAVE BEEN UNFAITHFUL IN HANDING IT ON? INCONCEIVABLE 
THAT THIS CAN HAVE BEEN THE CASE.
Since, therefore, it is incredible that the apostles were either ignorant of 
the whole scope of the message which they had to declare, or failed to make 
known to all men the entire rule of faith, let us see whether, while the 
apostles proclaimed it, perhaps, simply and fully, the churches, through their 
own fault, set it forth otherwise than the apostles had done. All these 
suggestions of distrust you may find put forward by the heretics. They bear in 
mind how the churches were rebuked by the apostle: "O foolish Galatians, who 
hath bewitched you?" and, "Ye did run so well; who hath hindered you?" and how 
the epistle actually begins: "I marvel that ye are so soon removed from Him, who 
hath called you as His own in grace, to another gospel." That they likewise 
(remember), what was written to the Corinthians, that they "were yet carnal," 
who "required to be fed with milk," being as yet "unable to bear strong meat;" 
who also "thought that they knew somewhat, whereas they knew not yet anything, 
as they ought to know." When they raise the objection that the churches were 
rebuked, let them suppose that they were also corrected; let them also remember 
those (churches), concerning whose faith and knowledge and conversation the 
apostle "rejoices and gives thanks to God," which nevertheless even at this day, 
unite with those which were rebuked in the privileges of one and the same 
institution. 
CHAP. XXVIII.--THE ONE TRADITION OF THE FAITH, WHICH IS SUBSTANTIALLY 
ALIKE IN THE CHURCHES EVERYWHERE, A GOOD PROOF THAT THE TRANSMISSION HAS 
BEEN TRUE AND HONEST IN THE MAIN.
Grant, then, that all have erred; that the apostle was mistaken in giving his 
testimony; that the Holy Ghost had no such respect to any one (church) as to 
lead it into truth, although sent with this view by Christ, and for this asked 
of the Father that He might be the teacher of truth; grant, also, that He, the 
Steward of God, the Vicar of Christ, 
neglected His office, permitting the churches for a time to understand 
differently, (and) to believe differently, what He Himself was preaching by the 
apostles,--is it likely that so many churches, and they so great, should have 
gone astray into one and the same faith? No casualty distributed among many men 
issues in one and the same result. Error of doctrine in the churches must 
necessarily have produced various issues. When, however, that which is deposited 
among many is found to be one and the same, it is not the result of error, but 
of tradition. Can any one, then, be reckless enough to say that they were in 
error who handed on the tradition? 
CHAP. XXIX.--THE TRUTH NOT INDEBTED TO THE CARE OF THE HERETICS; IT HAD 
FREE COURSE BEFORE THEY APPEARED. PRIORITY OF THE CHURCH'S DOCTRINE A MARK OF 
ITS TRUTH.
In whatever manner error came,it reigned of course only as long as there was 
an absence of heresies? Truth had to wait for certain Marcionites and 
Valentinians to set it free. During the interval the gospel was wrongly 
preached; men wrongly believed; so many thousands were wrongly baptized; so many 
works of faith were wrongly wrought; so many miraculous gifts, so many spiritual 
endowments, were wrongly set in operation; so many priestly functions, so many 
ministries, were wrongly executed; and, to sum up the whole, so many martyrs 
wrongly received their crowns! Else, if not wrongly done, and to no purpose, how 
comes it to pass that the things of God were on their course before it was known 
to what God they belonged? that there were Christians before Christ was found? 
that there were heresies before true doctrine? Not so; for in all cases truth 
precedes its copy, the likeness succeeds the reality. Absurd enough, however, is 
it, that heresy should be deemed to have preceded its own prior doctrine, even 
on this account, because it is that (doctrine) itself which foretold that there 
257 
should be heresies against which men would have to guard! To a church which 
possessed this doctrine, it was written--yea, the doctrine itself writes to its 
own church--"Though an angel from heaven preach any other gospel than that which 
we have preached, let him be accursed." 
CHAP. XXX.--COMPARATIVE LATENESS OF HERESIES. MARClON'S HERESY. SOME 
PERSONAL FACTS ABOUT HIM. THE HERESY OF APELLES. CHARACTER OF THIS 
MAN; PHILUMENE; VALENTINUS; NIGIDIUS, AND HERMOGENES.
Where was Marcion then, that shipmaster of Pontus, the zealous student of 
Stoicism? Where was Valentinus then, the disciple of Platonism? For it is 
evident that those menlived not so long ago,--in the reign of Antoninus for the 
most part,--and that they at first were believers in the doctrine of the 
Catholic Church, in the church of Rome under the episcopate of the blessed 
Eleutherus, until on account of their ever restless curiosity,with which they 
even infected the brethren, they were more than once expelled. Marcion, indeed, 
[went] with the two hundred sesterces which which he had brought into the 
church, and, when banished at last to a permanent excommunication, they 
scattered abroad the poisons of their doctrines. Afterwards, it is true, 
Mar-cion professed repentance, and agreed to the conditions granted to him--that 
he should receive reconciliation if he restored to the church all the others 
whom he had been training for perdition: he was prevented, however, by death. It 
was indeed necessary that there should be heresies; and yet it does not follow 
from that necessity, that heresies are a good thing. As if it has not been 
necessary also that there should be evil! It was even necessary that the Lord 
should be betrayed; but woe to the traitor! So that no man may from this defend 
heresies. If we must likewise touch the descent 
of Apelles, he is far from being" one of the old school," like his instructor 
and moulder, Marcion; he rather forsook the continence of Marcion, by resorting 
to the company of a woman, and withdrew to Alexandria, out of sight of his most 
abstemious master. Returning therefrom, after some years, unimproved, except 
that he was no longer a Marcionite, he clave to another woman, the maiden 
Philumene (whom we have already mentioned), who herself afterwards became an 
enormous prostitute. Having been imposed on by her vigorous spirit, he committed 
to writing the revelations which he had learned of her. Persons are still living 
who remember them,--their own actual disciples and successors,--who cannot 
therefore deny the lateness of their date. But, in fact, by their own works they 
are convicted, even as the Lord said. For since Marcion separated the New 
Testament from the Old, he is (necessarily) subsequent to that which he 
separated, inasmuch as it was only in his power to separate what was 
(previously) united. Having then been united previous to its separation, the 
fact of its subsequent separation proves the subsequence also of the man who 
effected the separation. In like manner Valentinus, by his different expositions 
and acknowledged emendations, makes these changes on the express ground of 
previous faultiness, and therefore demonstrates the difference of the documents. 
These corrupters of the truth we mention as being more notorious and more public 
than others. There is, however, a certain man named Nigidius, and Hermogenes, 
and several others, who still pursue the course of perverting the ways of the 
Lord. Let them show me by what authority they come! If it be some other God they 
preach, how comes it that they employ the things and he writings and the names 
of that God against whom they preach? If it be the same God, why treat Him in 
some other way? Let them prove themselves to be new apostles! Let them maintain 
that Christ has come down a second time, taught in person a second time, has 
been twice crucified, twice dead, twice raised! For thus has the apostle 
described (the order of events in the life of Christ); for thus, too, is He 
accustomed to make His apostles--to give them, (that is), power besides of 
working the same miracles which He worked Himself. I would therefore have their 
mighty deeds also brought forward; except that I allow their 258 
mightiest deed to be that by which they perversely vie with the apostles. For 
whilst they used to raise men to life from the dead, these consign men to death 
from their living state. 
CHAP. XXXI.--TRUTH FIRST, FALSEHOOD AFTER WARDS, AS ITS PERVERSION. 
CHRIST'S PARABLE PUTS THE SOWING OF THE GOOD SEED BEFORE THE USELESS TARES.
Let me return, however, from this digression to discuss the priority of 
truth, and the comparative lateness of falsehood, deriving support for my 
argument even from that parable which puts in the first place the sowing by the 
Lord of the good seed of the wheat, but introduces at a later stage the 
adulteration of the crop by its enemy the devil with the useless weed of the 
wild oats. For herein is figuratively described the difference of doctrines, 
since in other passages also the word of God is likened unto seed. From the 
actual order, therefore, it becomes clear, that that which was first delivered 
is of the Lord and is true, whilst that is strange and false which was 
afterwards introduced. This sentence will keep its ground in opposition to all 
later heresies, which have no consistent quality of kindred knowledge inherent 
in them--to claim the truth as on their side. 
CHAP.XXXII.--NONE OF THE HERETICS CLAIM SUCCESSION FROM THE APOSTLES. NEW 
CHURCHES STILL APOSTOLIC, BECAUSE THEIR FAITH IS THAT WHICH THE APOSTLES TAUGHT 
AND HANDED DOWN. THE HERETICS CHALLENGED TO SHOW ANY APOSTOLIC
CREDENTIALS.
But if there be any (heresies) which are bold enough to plant themselves in 
the midst Of the apostolic age, that they may thereby seem to have been handed 
down by the apostles, because they existed in the time of the apostles, we can 
say: Let them produce the original records of their churches; let them unfold 
the roll of their bishops, running down in due succession from the beginning in 
such a manner that [that first bishop of theirs] bishop shall be able to show 
for his ordainer and predecessor some one of the apostles or of apostolic 
men,--a man, moreover, who continued stedfast with the apostles. For this is the 
manner in which the apostolic churches transmit their registers: as the church 
of Smyrna, which records that Polycarp was placed therein by John; as also the 
church of Rome, which makes Clement to have been ordained in like manner by 
Peter. In exactly the same way the other churches likewise exhibit (their 
several worthies), whom, as having been appointed to their episcopal places by 
apostles, they regard as transmitters of the apostolic seed. Let the heretics 
contrive something of the same kind. For after their blasphemy, what is there 
that is unlawful for them (to attempt)? But should they even effect the 
contrivance, they will not advance a step. For their very doctrine, after 
comparison with that of the apostles, will declare, by its own diversity and 
contrariety, that it had for its author neither an apostle nor an apostolic man; 
because, as the apostles would never have taught things which were 
self-contradictory, so the apostolic men would not have inculcated teaching 
different from the apostles, unless they who received their instruction from the 
apostles went and preached in a contrary manner. To this test, therefore will 
they be submitted for proof by those churches, who, although they derive not 
their founder from apostles or apostolic men (as being of much later date, for 
they are in fact being founded daily), yet, since they agree in the same faith, 
they are accounted as not less apostolic because they are akin in doctrine. Then 
let all the heresies, when challenged to these two tests by our apostolic 
church, offer their proof of how they deem themselves to be apostolic. But in 
truth they neither are so, nor are they able to prove themselves to be what they 
are not. Nor are they admitted to peaceful relations and communion by such 
churches as are in any way connected with apostles, inasmuch as they are in no 
sense themselves apostolic because of their diversity as to the mysteries of the 
faith. 
CHAP. XXXIII.--PRESENT HERESIES (SEEDLINGS OF THE TARES NOTED BY THE 
SACRED WRITERS) ALREADY CONDEMNED IN SCRIPTURE. THIS DESCENT OF LATER HERESY 
FROM THE EARLIER TRACED IN SEVERAL INSTANCES.
Besides all this, I add a review of the doctrines themselves, which, existing 
as they did 259 
in the days of the apostles, were both exposed and denounced by the said 
apostles. For by this method they will be more easily reprobated, when they are 
detected to have been even then in existence, or at any rate to have been 
seedlings of the (tares) which then were. Paul, in his first epistle to the 
Corinthians, sets his mark on certain who denied and doubted the resurrection. 
This opinion was the especial property of the Sadducees. A part of it, however, 
is maintained by Marcion and Apelles and Valentinus, and all other impugners of 
the resurrection. Writing also to the Galatians, he inveighs against such men as 
observed and defend circumcision and the (Mosaic) law. Thus runs Hebion's 
heresy. Such also as "forbid to marry" he reproaches in his instructions to 
Timothy. Now, this is the teaching of Marcion and his follower Apelles. (The 
apostle) directs a similar blow against those who said that "the resurrection 
was past already." Such an opinion did the Valentinians assert of themselves. 
When again he mentions "endless genealogies," one also recognises Valentinus, in 
whose system a certain AEon, whosoever he be, of a new name, and that not one 
only, generates of his own grace Sense and Truth; and these in like manner 
produce of themselves Word and Life, while these again afterwards beget Man and 
the Church. From these primary eight ten other AEons after them spring, and then 
the twelve others arise with their wonderful names, to complete the mere story 
of the thirty AEons. The same apostle, when disapproving of those who are "in 
bondage to elements," points us to some dogma of Hermogenes, who introduces 
matter as having no beginning, and then compares it with God, who has no 
beginning. By thus making the mother of the elements a goddess, he has it in his 
power "to be in bondage" to a being which he puts on a par with God. John, 
however, in the Apocalypse is charged to chastise those "who eat things 
sacrificed to idols," and "who commit fornication." There are even now another 
sort of Nicolaitans. 
Theirs is called the Gaian heresy. But in his epistle he especially 
designates those as "Antichrists" who "denied that Christ was come in the 
flesh," and who refused to think that Jesus was the Son of God. The one dogma 
Marcion maintained; the other, Hebion. The doctrine, however, of Simon's 
sorcery, which inculcated the worship of angels, was itself actually reckoned 
amongst idolatries and condemned by the Apostle Peter in Simon's own person. 
CHAP. XXXIV.--NO EARLY CONTROVERSY RESPECTING THE DIVINE CREATOR; NO 
SECOND GOD INTRODUCED AT FIRST. HERESIES CONDEMNED ALIKE BY THE SENTENCE AND 
THE SILENCE OF HOLY SCRIPTURE.
These are, as I suppose, the different kinds of spurious doctrines, which (as 
we are informed by the apostles themselves) existed in their own day. And yet we 
find amongst so many various perversions of truth, not one school which raised 
any controversy concerning God as the Creator of all things. No man was bold 
enough to surmise a second god. More readily was doubt felt about the Son than 
about the Father, until Marcion introduced, in addition to the Creator, another 
god of goodness only. Apelles made the Creator of some nondescript glorious 
angel, who belonged to the superior God, the god (according to him,) of the law 
and of Israel, affirming that he was fire. Valentinus disseminated his AEons, 
and traced the sin of one AEon to the production of God the Creator. To none, 
forsooth, except these, nor prior to these, was revealed the truth of the Divine 
Nature; and they obtained this especial honour and fuller favour from the devil, 
we cannot doubt, because he wished even in this respect to rival God, that he 
might succeed, by the poison of his doctrines, in doing himself what the Lord 
said could not be done--making "the disciples above their Master." Let the 
entire mass 
of heresies choose, therefore, for themselves the times when they should 
appear, provided that the when be an unimportant point; allowing, too, that they 
be not of the truth, and (as a matter of course) that such as had no exist 260 
ence in the time of the apostles could not possibly have had any connection 
with the apostles. If indeed they had then existed, their names would be extant, 
with a view to their own repression likewise. Those (heresies) indeed which did 
exist in the days of the apostles, are condemned in their very mention. If it be 
true, then, that those heresies, which in the apostolic times were in a rude 
form, are now found to be the same, only in a much more polished shape, they 
derive their condemnation from this very circumstance Or if they were not the 
same, but arose afterwards in a different form, and merely assumed from them 
certain tenets, then, by sharing with them an agreement in their teaching, they 
must needs partake in their condemnation, by reason of the above-mentioned 
definition, of lateness of date, which meets us on the very threshold. Even if 
they were free from any participation in condemned doctrine, they would stand 
already judged on the mere ground of time, being all the more spurious because 
they were not even named by the apostles. Whence we have the firmer assurance, 
that these were (the heresies) which even then, were announced as about to 
arise. 
CHAP. XXXV.--LET HERETICS MAINTAIN THEIR CLAIMS BY A DEFINITE AND 
INTELLIGIBLE
EVIDENCE.THIS THE ONLY METHOD OF SOLVING THEIR QUESTIONS. CATHOLICS 
APPEAL
ALWAYS TO EVIDENCE TRACEABLE TO APOSTOLIC SOURCES.
Challenged and refuted by us, according to these definitions, let all the 
heresies boldly on their part also advance similar rules to these against our 
doctrine, whether they be later than the apostles or contemporary with the 
apostles, provided they be different from them; provided also they were, by 
either a general or a specific censure, precondemned by them. For since they 
deny the truth of (our doctrine), they ought to prove that it also is heresy, 
refutable by the same rule as that by which they are themselves refuted; and at 
the same time to show us where we must seek the truth, which it is by this time 
evident has no existence amongst them. Our system is not behind any in date; on 
the contrary, it is earlier than all; and this fact will be the evidence of that 
truth which everywhere occupies the first place. The apostles, again, nowhere 
condemn it; they rather defend it,--a fact which will show that it comes from 
themselves. For that doctrine which they refrain from condemning, when they have 
condemned every strange opinion, they show to be their own, and on that ground 
too they defend it. 
CHAP. XXXVI.--THE APOSTOLIC CHURCHES THE VOICE OF THE APOSTLES, LET THE 
HERETICS EXAMINE THEIR APOSTOLIC CLAIMS, IN EACH CASE, INDISPUTABLE. THE CHURCH 
OF ROME DOUBLY APOSTOLIC; ITS EARLY EMINENCE AND EXCELLENCE. HERESY, AS
PERVERTING THE TRUTH, IS CONNECTED THEREWITH.
Come now, you who would indulge a better curiosity, if you would apply it to 
the business of your salvation, run over the apostolic churches, in which the 
very thrones of the apostles are still pre-eminent in their places, in which 
their own authentic writings are read, uttering the voice and representing the 
face of each of them severally. Achaia is very near you, (in which) you find 
Corinth. Since you are not far from Macedonia, you have Philippi; (and there 
too) you have the Thessalonians. Since you are able to cross to Asia, you get 
Ephesus. Since, moreover, you are close upon Italy, you have Rome, from which 
there comes even into our own hands the very authority (of apostles themselves). 
How happy is its church, on which apostles poured forth all their doctrine along 
with their blood! where Peter endures a passion like his Lord's! where Paul wins 
his crown in a death like John's where the Apostle John was first plunged, 
unhurt, into boiling oil, and thence remitted to his island-exile! See what she 
has learned, what taught, what fellowship has had with even (our) churches in 
Africa! One Lord God does she acknowledge, the Creator of the universe, and 
Christ Jesus (born) of the Virgin Mary, the Son of God the Creator; and the 
Resurrection of the flesh; the law and the prophets she unites in one volume 
with the writings of evangelists and apostles, from which she drinks in her 
faith. This she seals with the water (of baptism), arrays with the Holy 261 
Ghost, feeds with the Eucharist, cheers with martyrdom, and against such a 
discipline thus (maintained) she admits no gainsayer. This is the discipline 
which I no longer say foretold that heresies should come, but from which they 
proceeded. However, they were not of her, because they were opposed to her. Even 
the rough wild-olive arises from the germ of the fruitful, rich, and genuine 
olive; also from the seed of the mellowest and sweetest fig there springs the 
empty and useless wild-fig. In the same way heresies, too, come from our plant, 
although not of our kind; (they come) 
from the grain of truth, but, owing to their falsehood, they have only wild 
leaves to show. 
CHAP. XXXVII.--HERETICS NOT BEING CHRISTIANS, BUT RATHER PERVERTERS 
OF CHRIST'S TEACHING, MAY NOT CLAIM THE CHRISTIAN SCRIPTURES. THESE ARE A 
DEPOSIT, COMMITTED TO AND CAREFULLY KEPT BY THE CHURCH.
Since this is the case, in order that the truth may be adjudged to belong to 
us, "as many as walk according to the rule," which the church has handed down 
from the apostles, the apostles from Christ, and Christ from God, the reason of 
our position is clear, when it determines that heretics ought not to be allowed 
to challenge an appeal to the Scriptures, since we, without the Scriptures, 
prove that they have nothing to do with the Scriptures. For as they are 
heretics, they cannot be true Christians, because it is not from Christ that 
they get that which they pursue of their own mere choice, and from the pursuit 
incur and admit the name of heretics. Thus, not being Christians, they have 
acquired no right to the Christian Scriptures; and it may be very fairly said to 
them, "Who are you? When and whence did you come? As you are none of mine, what 
have you to do with that which is mine? Indeed, Marcion, by what right do you 
hew my wood? By whose permission, Valentinus, are you diverting the streams of 
my fountain? By what power, Apelles, are you removing my landmarks? This is my 
property. Why are you, the rest, sowing and feeding here at your own pleasure? 
This (I say) is my property. I have long possessed it; I possessed it before 
you. I hold sure title-deeds from the original owners themselves, to whom the 
estate belonged. I am the heir of the apostles. Just as they carefully prepared 
their will and testament, and committed it to a trust, and adjured (the trustees 
to be faithful to their charge), even so do I hold it. As for you, they have, it 
is certain, always held you as disinherited, and rejected you as strangers--as 
enemies. But on what ground are heretics strangers and enemies to the apostles, 
if it be not from the difference of their teaching, which each individual of his 
own mere will has either advanced or received in opposition to the apostles?" 
CHAP.XXXVIII.--HARMONY OF THE CHURCH AND THE SCRIPTURES.HERETICS 
HAVE TAMPERED WITH THE SCRIPTURES, AND MUTILATED, AND ALTERED THEM. CATHOLICS 
NEVER CHANGE THE SCRIPTURES, WHICH ALWAYS TESTIFY FOR THEM.
Where diversity of doctrine is found, there, then, must the corruption both 
of the Scriptures and the expositions thereof be regarded as existing. On those 
whose purpose it was to teach differently, lay the necessity of differently 
arranging the instruments of doctrine. They could not possibly have effected 
their diversity of teaching in any other way than by having a difference in the 
means whereby they taught. As in their case, corruption in doctrine could not 
possibly have succeeded without a corruption also of its instruments, so to 
ourselves also integrity of doctrine could not have accrued, without integrity 
in those means by which doctrine is managed. Now, what is there in our 
Scriptures which is contrary to us? What of our own have we introduced, that we 
should have to take it away again, or else add to it, or alter it, in order to 
restore to its natural soundness anything which is contrary to it, and contained 
in the Scriptures? What we are ourselves, that also the Scriptures are (and have 
been) from the beginning. Of 262 
them we have our being, before there was any other way, before they were 
interpolated by you. Now, inasmuch as all interpolation must be believed to be a 
later process, for the express reason that it proceeds from rivalry which is 
never in any case previous to nor home-born with that which it emulates, it is 
as incredible to every man of sense that we should seem to have introduced any 
corrupt text into the Scriptures, existing, as we have been, from the very 
first, and being the first, as it is that they have not in fact introduced it 
who are both later in date and opposed (to the Scriptures). One man perverts the 
Scriptures with his hand, another their meaning by his exposition. For although 
Valentinus seems to use the entire volume, he has none the less laid violent 
hands on the truth only with a more cunning mind and skill 
than Marcion. Marcion expressly and openly used the knife, not the pen, since 
he made such an excision of the Scriptures as suited his own subject-matter. 
Valentinus, however, abstained from such excision, because he did not invent 
Scriptures to square with his own subject-matter, but adapted his matter to the 
Scriptures; and yet he took away more, and added more, by removing the proper 
meaning of every particular word, and adding fantastic arrangements of things 
which have no real existence. 
CHAP. XXXIX.--WHAT ST. PAUL CALLS SPIRITUAL WICKEDNESSES DISPLAYED BY 
PAGAN AUTHORS, AND BY HERETICS, IN NO DISSIMILAR MANNER. HOLY SCRIPTURE 
ESPECIALLY LIABLE TO HERETICAL MANIPULATION. AFFORDS MATERIAL FOR 
HERESIES, JUST AS VIRGIL HAS BEEN THE GROUNDWORK OF LITERARY PLAGIARISMS, 
DIFFERENT IN PURPORT FROM THE ORIGINAL.
These were the ingenious arts of "spiritual wickednesses," wherewith we also, 
my brethren, may fairly expect to have "to wrestle," as necessary for faith, 
that the elect may be made manifest, (and) that the reprobate may be discovered. 
And therefore they possess influence, and a facility in thinking out and 
fabricating errors, which ought not to be wondered at as if it were a difficult 
and inexplicable process, seeing that in profane writings also an example comes 
ready to hand of a similar facility. You see in our own day, composed out of 
Virgil, a story of a wholly different character, the subject-matter being 
arranged according to the verse, and the verse according to the subject-matter. 
In short, Hosidius Geta has most completely pilfered his tragedy of Medea from 
Virgil. A near relative of my own, among some leisure productions of his pen, 
has composed out of the same poet The Table of Cebes. On the same principle, 
those poetasters are commonly called Homerocentones, "collectors of Homeric odds 
and ends," who stitch into one piece, patchwork fashion, works of their own from 
the lines of Homer, out of many scraps put together from this passage and from 
that (in miscellaneous confusion). Now, unquestionably, the Divine Scriptures 
are more fruitful in resources of all kinds for this sort of facility. Nor do I 
risk contradiction in saying that the very Scriptures were even arranged by the 
will of God in such a manner as to furnish materials for heretics, inasmuch as I 
read that "there must be heresies, which there cannot be without the Scriptures. 

CHAP. XL.--NO DIFFERENCE IN THE SPIRIT OF IDOLATRY AND OF HERESY. IN THE 
RITES OF IDOLATRY, SATAN IMITATED AND DISTORTED THE DIVINE INSTITUTIONS 
OF THE OLDER SCRIPTURES. THE CHRISTIAN SCRIPTURES CORRUPTED BY HIM IN THE 
PERVERSIONS OF THE VARIOUS HERETICS.
The question will arise, By whom is to be interpreted the sense of the 
passages which make for heresies? By the devil, of course, to whom pertain those 
wiles which pervert the truth, and who, by the mystic rites of his idols, vies 
even with the essential portions of the sacraments of God. He, too, baptizes 
some--that is, his own believers and faithful followers; he promises the putting 
away of sins by a layer (of his own); and if my memory still serves me, Mithra 
there, (in the kingdom of Satan,) sets his marks on the foreheads of his 
soldiers; celebrates also the oblation of bread, and introduces an image of a 
resurrec 263 
tion, and before a sword wreathes a crown. What also must we say to (Satan's) 
limiting his chief priest to a single marriage? He, too, has his virgins; he, 
too, has his proficients in continence. Suppose now we revolve in our minds the 
superstitions of Numa Pompilius, and consider his priestly offices and badges 
and privileges, his sacrificial services, too, and the instruments and vessels 
of the sacrifices themselves, and the curious rites of his expiations and vows: 
is it not clear to us that the devil imitated the well-known moroseness of the 
Jewish law? Since, therefore he has Shown such emulation in his great aim of 
expressing, in the concerns of his idolatry, those very things of which consists 
the administration of Christ's sacraments, it follows, of course, that the same 
being, possessing still the same genius, both set his heart upon, and succeeded 
in, adapting to his profane and rival creed the very documents of divine things 
and of the Christian saints--his interpretation from their interpretations, his 
words from their words, his parables from their parables. For this reason, then, 
no one ought to doubt, either that "spiritual wickednesses," from which also 
heresies come, have been introduced by the devil, or that there is any real 
difference between heresies and idolatry, seeing that they appertain both to the 
same author and the same work that idolatry does. They either pretend that there 
is another god in opposition to the Creator, or, even if they acknowledge that 
the Creator is the one only God, they treat of Him as a different being from 
what He is in truth. The consequence is, that every lie which they speak of God 
is in a certain sense a sort of idolatry CHAP. XLI.--THE CONDUCT OF HERETICS: 
ITS FRIVOLITY, WORLDLINESS, AND IRREGULARITY. THE NOTORIOUS WANTONNESS OF THEIR 
WOMEN.
I must not omit an account of the conduct also of the heretics--how frivolous 
it is, how worldly, how merely human, without seriousness, without authority, 
without discipline, as suits their creed. To begin with, it is doubtful who is a 
catechumen, and who a believer; they have all access alike, they hear alike, 
they pray alike--even heathens, if any such happen to come among them. "That 
which is holy they will cast to the dogs, and their pearls," although (to be 
sure) they are not real ones, "they will fling to the swine." Simplicity they 
will have to consist in the overthrow of discipline, attention to which on our 
part they call brothelry. Peace also they huddle up anyhow with all comers; for 
it matters not to them, however different be their treatment of subjects, 
provided only they can conspire together to storm the citadel of the one only 
Truth. All are puffed up, all offer you knowledge. Their catechumens are perfect 
before they are full-taught. The very women of these heretics, how wanton they 
are! For they are bold enough to teach, to dispute, to enact exorcisms, to 
undertake cures--it may be even to baptize. Their ordinations, are carelessly. 
administered, capricious, changeable. At one time they put novices in office; at 
another time, men who are bound to some secular employment; at another, persons 
who have apostatized from us, to bind them by vainglory, since they cannot by 
the truth. Nowhere is promotion easier than in the camp of rebels, where the 
mere fact of being there is a foremost service. And so it comes to pass that 
to-day one man is their bishop, to-morrow another; to-day he is a deacon who 
to-morrow is a reader; to-day he is a presbyter who tomorrow is a layman. For 
even on laymen do they impose the functions of priesthood. 
CHAP. XLII.--HERETICS WORK TO PULL DOWN AND TO DESTROY, NOT TO EDIFY AND 
ELEVATE. HERETICS DO NOT ADHERE EVEN TO THEIR OWN TRADITIONS, BUT HARBOUR 
DISSENT EVEN FROM THEIR OWN FOUNDERS.
But what shall I say concerning the ministry of the word, since they make it 
their business not to convert the heathen, but to subvert our people? This is 
rather the glory which they catch at, to compass the fall of those who stand, 
not the raising of those who are down. Accordingly, since the very work which 
they purpose to themselves comes not from the building up of their own society, 
but from the demolition of the truth, they undermine our edifices, that they may 
erect their own. Only 264 
deprive them of the law of Moses, and the prophets, and the divinity of the 
Creator, and they have not another objection to talk about. The consequence is, 
that they more easily accomplish the ruin of standing houses than the erection 
of fallen ruins. It is only when they have such objects in view that they show 
themselves humble and bland and respectful. Otherwise they know no respect even 
for their own leaders. Hence it is [supposed] that schisms seldom happen among 
heretics, because, even when they exist, they are not obvious. Their very unity, 
however, is schism. I am greatly in error if they do not amongst themselves 
swerve even from their own regulations, forasmuch as every man, just as it suits 
his own temper, modifies the traditions he has received after the same fashion 
as the man who handed them down did, when he moulded them according to his own 
will. The progress of the matter is an acknowledgment at once of its character 
and of the manner of its birth. That was allowable to the Valentinians which had 
been allowed to Valentinus; that was also fair for the Marcionites which had 
been done by Marcion--even to innovate on the faith, as was agreeable to their 
own pleasure. In short, all heresies, when throughly looked into, are detected 
harbouring dissent in many particulars even from their own founders. The 
majority of them have not even churches. Motherless, houseless, creedless, 
outcasts, they wander about in their own essential worthlessness. 
CHAP. XLIII.--LOOSE COMPANY PREFERRED BY HERETICS. UNGODLINESS THE EFFECT 
OF THEIR TEACHING THE VERY OPPOSITE OF CATHOLIC TRUTH, WHICH PROMOTES THE FEAR 
OF GOD, BOTH IN RELIGIOUS ORDINANCES AND PRACTICAL LIFE.
It has also been a subject of remark, how extremely frequent is the 
intercourse which heretics hold with magicians, with mountebanks, with 
astrologers, with philosophers; and the reason is, that they are men who devote 
themselves to curious questions. "Seek, and ye shall find," is everywhere in 
their minds. Thus, from the very nature of their conduct, may be estimated the 
quality of their faith. In their discipline we have an index of their doctrine. 
They say that God is not to be feared; therefore all things are in their view 
free and unchecked. Where, however is God not feared, except where He is not? 
Where God is not, there truth also is not. Where there is no truth, then, 
naturally enough, there is also such a discipline as theirs. But where God is, 
there exists "the fear of God, which is the beginning of wisdom." Where the fear 
of God is, there is seriousness, an honourable and yet thoughtful diligence, as 
well as an anxious carefulness and a well-considered admission (to the sacred 
ministry) and a safely-guarded communion, and promotion after good service, and 
a scrupulous submission (to authority), and a devout attendance, and a modest 
gait, and a united church, and God in all things. 
CHAP. XLIV.--HERESY LOWERS RESPECT FOR CHRIST, AND DESTROYS ALL FEAR OF 
HIS GREAT JUDGMENT. THE TENDENCY OF HERETICAL TEACHING ON THIS SOLEMN ARTICLE OF 
THE FAITH. THE PRESENT TREATISE AN INTRODUCTION TO CERTAIN OTHER
ANTI-HERETICAL WORKS OF OUR AUTHOR.
These evidences, then, of a stricter discipline existing among us, are an 
additional proof of truth, from which no man can safely turn aside, who bears in 
mind that future judgment, when "we must all stand before the judgment-seat of 
Christ, to render an account of our faith itself before all things. What, then, 
will they say who shall have defiled it, even the virgin which Christ committed 
to them with the adultery of heretics? I suppose they will allege that no 
injunction was ever addressed to them by Him or by His apostles concerning 
depraved and perverse doctrines assailing them, or about their avoiding and 
abhorring the same. (He and His apostles, perhaps,) will acknowledge that the 
blame rather lies with themselves and their disciples, in not having given us 
previous warning and instruction! They will, besides, add a good deal respecting 
the high authority of each doctor of heresy,--how that these mightily 
strengthened belief in their own doctrine; how that they raised the dead, 265 
restored the sick, foretold the future, that so they might deservedly be 
regarded as apostles. As if this caution were not also in the written record: 
that many should come who were to work even the greatest miracles, in defence of 
the deceit of their corrupt preaching. So, forsooth, they will deserve to be 
forgiven! If, however, any, being mindful of the writings and the denunciations 
of the Lord and the apostles, shall have stood firm in the integrity of the 
faith, I suppose they will run great risk of missing pardon, when the Lord 
answers: I plainly forewarned you that there should be teachers of false 
doctrine in my name, as well as that of the prophets and apostles also; and to 
my own disciples did I give a charge, that they should preach the same things to 
you. But as for you, it was not, of course, to be supposed that you would 
believe me! I once gave the gospel and the doctrine of the said rule (of life 
and faith) to my apostles; but afterwards it was my pleasure to make 
considerable changes in it! I had promised a resurrection, even of the flesh; 
but, on second thoughts, it struck me that I might not be able to keep my 
promise! I had shown myself to have been born of a virgin; but this seemed to me 
afterwards to be a discreditable thing. I had said that He was my Father, who is 
the Maker of the sun and the showers; but another and better father has adopted 
me! I had forbidden you to lend an ear to heretics; but in this I erred! Such 
(blasphemies), it is possible, do enter the minds of those who go out of the 
right path, and who do not defend the true faith from the danger which besets 
it. On the present occasion, indeed, our treatise has rather taken up a general 
position against heresies, (showing that they must) all be refuted on definite, 
equitable, and necessary rules, without 
any comparison with the Scriptures. For the rest, if God in His grace permit, 
we shall prepare answers to certain of these heresies in separate treatises. To 
those who may devote their leisure in reading through these (pages), in the 
belief of the truth, be peace, and the grace of our God Jesus Christ for ever. 

