
Tertullian












TERTULLIAN 
AD MARTYRAS. 
(TRANSLATED BY THE REV. S. THELWALL.)
CHAP. I. 
BLESSED Martyrs Designate,--Along with the provision which our lady mother 
the Church from her bountiful breasts, and each brother out of his private 
means, makes for your bodily wants in the prison, accept also from me some 
contribution to your spiritual sustenance; for it is not good that the flesh be 
feasted and the spirit starve: nay, if that which is weak be carefully looked 
to, it is but right that that which is still weaker should not be neglected. Not 
that I am specially entitled to exhort you; yet not only the trainers and 
overseers, but even the unskilled, nay, all who choose, without the slightest 
need for it, are wont to animate from afar by their cries the most accomplished 
gladiators, and from the mere throng of onlookers useful suggestions have 
sometimes come; first, then, O blessed, grieve not the Holy Spirit, who has 
entered the prison with you; for if He had not gone with you there, you would 
not have been there this day. Do you give all endeavour, therefore, to retain 
Him; so let Him lead you thence to your Lord. The prison, indeed, is the devil's 
house as well, wherein he keeps his family. But you have come within its walls 
for the very purpose of trampling the wicked one under foot in his chosen abode. 
You had already in pitched battle outside utterly overcome him; let him have no 
reason, then, to say to himself, "They are now in my domain; with vile hatreds I 
shall tempt them, with defections or dissensions among themselves." Let him fly 
from your presence, and skulk away into his own abysses, shrunken and torpid, as 
though he were an outcharmed or smoked-out snake. Give him not the success in 
his own kingdom of setting you at variance with each other, but let him find you 
armed and fortified with concord; for peace among you is battle with him. Some, 
not able to find this peace in the Church, have been used to seek it from the 
imprisoned martyrs. And so you ought to have it dwelling with you, and to 
cherish it, and to guard it, that you may be able perhaps to bestow it upon 
others. 
CHAP. II.
Other things, hindrances equally of the soul, may have accompanied you as far 
as the prison gate, to which also your relatives may have attended you. There 
and thenceforth you were severed from the world; how much more from the ordinary 
course of worldly life and all its affairs! Nor let this separation from the 
world alarm you; for if we reflect that the world is more really the prison, we 
shall see that you have gone out of a prison rather than into one. The world has 
the greater darkness, blinding men's hearts. The world imposes the more grievous 
fetters, binding men's very souls. The world breathes out the worst 
impurities--human lusts. The world contains the larger number of criminals, even 
the whole human race. Then, last of all, it awaits the judgment, not of the 
proconsul, but of God. Wherefore, O blessed, you may regard yourselves as having 
been translated from a prison to, we may say, a place of safety. It is full of 
darkness, but ye yourselves are light; it has bonds, but God has made you free. 
Unpleasant exhalations are there, but ye are an odour of sweetness. The 
judge is daily looked for, but ye shall judge the judges themselves. Sadness 
may be there for him who sighs for the world's enjoyments. The Christian outside 
the prison has renounced the world, but in the prison he has renounced a prison 
too. It is of no consequence where you are in the world--you who are not of it. 
And if you have lost some of life's sweets, it is the way of business to suffer 
present loss, that after gains may be the larger. Thus far I say nothing of the 
rewards to which God invites the martyrs. Meanwhile let us compare the life of 
the world and of the prison, and see if the spirit does not gain more in the 
prison than the flesh loses. Nay, by the care of the Church and the love of the 
brethren, even the flesh does not lose there what is for its good, while the 
spirit obtains besides important advantages. You have no occasion to look on 
strange gods, you do not run against their images; you have no part in heathen 
holidays, even by mere bodily mingling in them; you are not annoyed by the foul 
fumes of idolatrous solemnities; you are not pained by the noise of the public 
shows, nor by the atrocity or madness or immodesty of their celebrants; your 
eyes do not fall on stews and brothels; you are free from causes of offence, 
from temptations, from unholy reminiscences; you are free now from persecution 
too. The prison does the same service for the Christian which the desert did for 
the prophet. Our Lord Himself spent much of His time in seclusion, that He might 
have greater liberty to pray, that He might be quit of the world. It was in a 
mountain solitude, too, He showed His glory to the disciples. Let us drop the 
name of prison; let us call it a place of retirement. Though the body is shut 
in, though the flesh is confined, all things are open to the spirit. In spirit, 
then, roam abroad; in spirit walk about, not setting before you shady paths or 
long colonnades, but the way which leads to God. As often as in spirit your 
footsteps are there, so often you will not be in bonds. The leg does not feel 
the chain when the mind is in the heavens. The mind compasses the whole man 
about, and whither it wills it carries him. But where thy heart shall be, there 
shall be thy treasure. Be there our heart, then, where we would have our 
treasure. 
CHAP. III.
Grant now, O blessed, that even to Christians the prison is unpleasant; yet 
we were called to the warfare of the living God in our very response to the 
sacramental words. Well, no soldier comes out to the campaign laden with 
luxuries, nor does he go to action from his comfortable chamber, but from the 
light and narrow tent, where every kind of hardness, roughness and 
unpleasantness must be put up with. Even in peace soldiers inure themselves to 
war by toils and inconveniences--marching in arms, running over the plain, 
working at the ditch, making the testudo, engaging in many arduous labours. The 
sweat of the brow is on everything, that bodies and minds may not shrink at 
having to pass from shade to sunshine, from sunshine to icy cold, from the robe 
of peace to the coat of mail, from silence to clamour, from quiet to tumult. In 
like manner, O blessed ones, count whatever is hard in this lot of yours as a 
discipline of your powers of mind and body. You are about to pass through a 
noble struggle, in which the living God acts the part of superintendent, in 
which the Holy Ghost is your trainer, in which the prize is an eternal crown of 
angelic essence, citizenship in the heavens, glory everlasting. Therefore your 
Master, Jesus Christ, who has anointed you with His Spirit, and led you forth to 
the arena, has seen it good, before the day of conflict, to take you from a 
condition more pleasant in itself, and has imposed on you a harder treatment, 
that your strength might be the greater. 
For the athletes, too, are set apart to a more stringent discipline, that 
they may have their physical powers built up. They are kept from luxury, from 
daintier meats, from more pleasant drinks; they are pressed, racked, worn out; 
the harder their labours in the preparatory training, the stronger is the hope 
of victory. "And they," says the apostle, "that they may obtain a corruptible 
crown." We, with the crown eternal in our eye, look upon the prison as our 
training-ground, that at the goal of final judgment we may be brought forth well 
disciplined by many a trial; since virtue is built up by hardships, as by 
voluptuous indulgence it is overthrown. 
CHAP. IV.
From the saying of our Lord we know that the flesh is weak, the spirit 
willing. Let us not, withal, take delusive comfort from the Lord's 
acknowledgment of the weakness of the flesh. For precisely on this account He 
first declared the spirit willing, that He might show which of the two ought to 
be subject to the other--that the flesh might yield obedience to the spirit--the 
weaker to the stronger; the 
former thus from the latter getting strength. Let the spirit hold convene 
with the flesh about the common salvation, thinking no longer of the troubles of 
the prison, but of the wrestle and conflict for which they are the preparation. 
The flesh, perhaps, will dread the merciless sword, and the lofty cross, and the 
rage of the wild beasts, and that punishment of the flames, of all most 
terrible, and all the skill of the executioner in torture. But, on the other 
side, let the spirit set clearly before both itself and the flesh, how these 
things, though exceeding painful, have yet been calmly endured by many,--and, 
have even been eagerly desired for the sake of fame and glory; and this not only 
in the case of men, but of women too, that you, O holy women, may be worthy of 
your sex. It would take me too long to enumerate one by one the men who at their 
own self-impulse have put an end to themselves. As to women, there is a famous 
case at hand: the violated Lucretia, in the presence of her kinsfolk, plunged 
the knife into herself, that she might have glory for her chastity. Mucius 
burned his right hand on an altar, that this deed of his might dwell in fame. 
The philosophers have been outstripped,--for instance Heraclitus, who, smeared 
with cowdung, burned himself; and Empedocles, who leapt down into the fires of 
AEtna; and Peregrinus, who not long ago threw himself on the funeral pile. For 
women even have despised the flames. Dido did so, lest, after the death of a 
husband very dear to her, she should be compelled to marry again; and so did the 
wife of Hasdrubal, who, Carthage being on fire, that she might not behold her 
husband suppliant as Scipio's feet, rushed with her children into the 
conflagration, in which her native city was destroyed. Regulus, a Roman general, 
who had been taken prisoner by the Carthaginians, declined to be exchanged for a 
large number of Carthaginian captives, choosing rather to be given back to the 
enemy. He was crammed into a sort of chest; and, everywhere pierced by nails 
driven from the outside, he endured so many crucifixions. Woman has voluntarily 
sought the wild beasts, and even asps, those serpents worse than bear or bull, 
which Cleopatra applied to herself, that she might not fall into the hands of 
her enemy. But the fear of death is not so great as the fear of torture. And so 
the Athenian courtezan succumbed to the executioner, when, subjected to torture 
by the tyrant for having taken part in a conspiracy, still making no betrayal of 
her confederates, she at last bit off her tongue and spat it in the tyrant's 
face, that he might be convinced of the uselessness of his torments, however 
long they should be continued. Everybody knows what to this day is the great 
Lacedaemonian solemnity--the diamastugwsis, or scourging; in which sacred 
rite the Spartan youths are beaten with scourges before the altar, their parents 
and kinsmen standing by and exhorting them to stand it bravely out. For it will 
be always counted more honourable and glorious that the soul rather than the 
body has given itself to stripes. But if so high a value is put on the earthly 
glory, won by mental and bodily vigour, that men, for the praise of their 
fellows, I may say, despise the sword, the fire, the cross, the wild beasts, the 
torture; these surely are but trifling sufferings to obtain a celestial glory 
and a divine reward. If the bit of glass is so precious, what must the true 
pearl be worth? Are we not called on, then, most joyfully to lay out as much for 
the true as others do for the false? 
CHAP. V.
I leave out of account now the motive of glory. All these same cruel and 
painful conflicts, a mere vanity you find among men--in fact, a sort of mental 
disease--as trampled under foot. How many ease-lovers does the conceit of arms 
give to the sword? They actually go down to meet the very wild beasts in vain 
ambition; and they fancy themselves more winsome from the bites and scars of the 
contest. Some have sold themselves to fires, to run a certain distance in a 
burning tunic. Others, with most enduring shoulders, have walked about under the 
hunters' whips. The Lord has given these things a place in the world, O blessed, 
not without some reason: for what reason, but now to animate us, and on that day 
to confound us if we have feared to suffer for the truth, that we might be 
saved, what others out of vanity have eagerly sought for to their ruin? 
CHAP. VI.
Passing, too, from examples of enduring constancy having such an origin as 
this, let us turn to a simple contemplation of man's estate in its ordinary 
conditions, that mayhap from things which happen to us whether we will or no, 
and which we must set our minds to bear, we may get instruction. How often, 
then, have fires consumed the living! How often have wild beasts torn men in 
pieces, it may be in their own forests, or it may be in the heart of cities, 
when they have chanced to escape from their dens! How many have fallen by the 
robber's sword! How many have suffered at the hands of enemies the death of the 
cross, after having been tortured first, yes, and treated with every sort of 
contumely! One may even suffer in the cause of a man what he hesitates to suffer 
in the cause of God. In reference to this indeed, let the present time bear 
testimony, when so many persons of rank have met with death in a mere human 
being's cause, and that though from their birth and dignities and bodily 
condition and age such a fate seemed most unlikely; either suffering at his 
hands if they have taken part against him, or from his enemies if they have been 
his partisans. 

