
Tertullian












TERTULLIAN 
ON REPENTANCE. 
[TRANSLATED BY THE REV. S. THELWALL.]
CHAP. I.--OF HEATHEN REPENTANCE.
Repentance, men understand, so far as nature is able, to be an emotion of the 
mind arising from disgust' at some previously cherished worse sentiment: that 
kind of men I mean which even we ourselves were in days gone by--blind, without 
the Lord's light. From the reason of repentance, however, they are just as far 
as they are from the Author of reason Himself. Reason, in fact, is a thing of 
God, inasmuch as there is nothing which God the Maker of all has not provided, 
disposed, ordained by reason--nothing which He has not willed should be handled 
and understood by reason. All, therefore, who are ignorant of God, must 
necessarily be ignorant also of a thing which is His, because no treasure-house 
at all is accessible to strangers. And thus, voyaging all the universal course 
of life without the rudder of reason, they know not how to shun the hurricane 
which is impending over the world. Moreover, how irrationally they behave in the 
practice of repentance, it will be enough briefly to show just by this one fact, 
that they! exercise it even in the case of their good deeds. They repent of good 
faith, of love, of simple-heartedness, of patience, of mercy, just in proportion 
as any deed prompted by these feelings has fallen on thankless soil. They 
execrate their own selves for having done good; and that species chiefly of 
repentance which is applied to the best works they fix in their heart, making it 
their care to remember never again to do a good turn. On repentance for evil 
deeds, on the contrary, they lay lighter stress. In short, they make this same 
(virtue) a means of sinning more readily than a means of right-doing. 
CHAP. II.--TRUE REPENTANCE A THING DIVINE, ORIGINATED BY GOD, AND 
SUBJECT TO HIS LAWS.
But if they acted as men who had any part in God, and thereby in reason also, 
they would first weigh well the importance of repentance, and would never apply 
it in such a way as to make it a ground for convicting themselves of perverse 
self-amendment. In short, they would regulate the limit of their repentance, 
because they would reach (a limit) in sinning too--by fearing God, I mean. But 
where there is no fear, in like manner there is no amendment; where there is no 
amendment, repentance is of necessity vain, for it lacks the fruit for which God 
sowed it; that is, man's salvation. For God--after so many and so great sins of 
human temerity, begun by the first of the race, Adam, after the condemnation of 
man, together with the dowry of the world? after his ejection from paradise and 
subjection to death--when He had hasted back to His own mercy, did from that 
time onward inaugurate repentance in His own self, by rescinding the sentence of 
His first wrath, engaging to grant pardon to His own work and image. And so He 
gathered together a people for Himself, and fostered them with many liberal 
distributions of His bounty, and, after so often finding them most ungrateful, 
ever exhorted them to repentance and sent out the voices of the universal 
company of the prophets to prophesy. By and by, promising freely the grace which 
in the last times He was intending to pour as a flood of light on the universal 
world through His 658 
Spirit, He bade the baptism of repentance lead the way, with the view of 
first preparing, by means of the sign and seal of repentance, them whom He was 
calling, through grace, to (inherit) the promise surely made to Abraham. John 
holds not his peace, saying, "Enter upon repentance, for now shall salvation 
approach the nations"--the Lord, that is, bringing salvation according to God's 
promise. To Him John, as His harbinger, directed the repentance (which he 
preached), whose province was the purging of men's minds,that whatever 
defilement inveterate error had imparted, whatever contamination in the heart of 
man ignorance had engendered, that repentance should sweep and scrape away, and 
cast out of doors, and thus prepare the home of the heart, by making it clean, 
for the Holy Spirit, who was about to supervene, that He might with pleasure 
introduce Himself there-into, together with His celestial blessings. Of these 
blessings the title is briefly one the salvation of man--the abolition of former 
sins being the preliminary step. This is the (final) cause of repentance, this 
her work, in taking in hand the business of divine mercy. What is profitable to 
man does service to God. The rule of repentance, however, which we learn when we 
know the Lord, retains a definite form,--viz., that no violent hands so to 
speak, be ever laid on good deeds or thoughts. For God, never giving His 
sanction to the reprobation of good deeds, inasmuch as they are His own (of 
which, being the author, He must necessarily be the defender too), is in like 
manner the acceptor of them, and if the acceptor, likewise the rewarder. Let, 
then, the ingratitude of men see to it, if it attaches repentance even to good 
works; let their gratitude see to it too, if the desire of earning it be the 
incentive to well-doing: earthly and mortal are they each. For how small is your 
gain if you do good to a grateful man! or your loss if to an ungrateful! A good 
deed has God as its debtor, just as an evil has too; for a judge is rewarder of 
every cause. Well, since, God as Judge presides over the exacting and 
maintaining of justice, which to Him is most dear; and since it is with an eye 
to justice that He appoints all the sum of His discipline, is there room for 
doubting that, just as in all our acts universally, so also in the case of 
repentance, justice must be rendered to God?--which duty can indeed only be 
fulfilled on the condition that repentance be brought to bear only on sins. 
Further, no deed but an evil one deserves to be called sin, nor does any one err 
by well-doing. But if he does not err, why does he invade (the province of) 
repentance, the private ground of such as do err? Why does he impose on his 
goodness a duty proper to wickedness? Thus it comes to pass that, when a thing 
is called into play where it ought not, there, where it ought, it is neglected. 
CHAP. III.--SINS MAY BE DIVIDED INTO CORPOREAL AND SPIRITUAL. BOTH 
EQUALLY SUBJECT, IF NOT TO HUMAN, YET TO DIVINE INVESTIGATION AND 
PUNISHMENT
What things, then, they be for which repentance seems just and due--that is, 
what things are to be set down under the head of sin--the occasion indeed 
demands that I should note down; but (to do so) may seem to be unnecessary. For 
when the Lord is known, our spirit, having been" looked back upon" by its own 
Author, emerges unbidden into the knowledge of the truth; and being admitted to 
(an acquaintance with) the divine precepts, is by them forthwith instructed that 
"that from which God bids us abstain is to be accounted sin:" inasmuch as, since 
it is generally agreed that God is some great essence of good, of course nothing 
but evil would be displeasing to good; in that, between things mutually 
contrary, friendship there is none. Still it will not be irksome briefly to 
touch upon the fact that, of sins, some are carnal, that is, corporeal; some 
spiritual. For since man is composed of this combination of a two-fold 
substance, the sources of his sins are no other than the sources of his 
composition. But it is not the fact that body and spirit are two things that 
constitute the sins mutually different--otherwise they are on this account 
rather equal, because the two make up one--lest any make the distinction between 
their sins proportionate to the difference between their substances, so as to 
esteem the one lighter, or else heavier, than the other: if it be true, (as it 
is,) that both flesh and spirit are creatures of God; one wrought by His hand, 
one consummated by His afflatus. Since, then, they equally pertain to the Lord, 
whichever of them sins equally offends the Lord. Is it for you to distinguish 
the acts of the flesh and the spirit, whose communion and conjunction in life, 
in death, and in resurrection, are 659 
so intimate, that "at that time" they are equally raised up either for life 
or else for judgment; because, to wit, they have equally either sinned or lived 
innocently? This we would (once for all) premise, in order that we may 
understand that no less necessity for repentance is incumbent on either part of 
man, if in anything it have sinned, than on both. The guilt of both is common; 
common, too, is the Judge--God to wit; common, therefore, is withal the healing 
medicine of repentance. The source whence sins are named "spiritual" and 
"corporeal" is the fact that every sin is matter either of act or else of 
thought: so that what is in deed is "corporeal," because a deed, like a body, is 
capable of being seen and touched; what is in the mind is "spiritual," because 
spirit is neither seen nor handled:: by which consideration is shown that sins 
not of deed only, but of will too, are to be shunned, and by repentance purged. 
For if human finitude judges only sins of deed, because it is not equal to 
(piercing) the lurking-places of the will, let us not on that account make light 
of crimes of the will in God's sight. God is all-sufficient. Nothing from whence 
any sin whatsoever proceeds is remote from His sight; because He is neither 
ignorant, nor does He omit to decree it to judgment. He is no dissembler of, nor 
double-dealer with, His own clear-sightedness. What (shall we say of the fact) 
that will is the origin of deed? For if any sins are imputed to chance, or to 
necessity, or to ignorance, let them see to themselves: if these be excepted, 
there is no sinning save by will. Since, then, will is the origin of deed, is it 
not so much the rather amenable to penalty as it is first in guilt? Nor, if some 
difficulty interferes with its full accomplishment, is it even in that ease 
exonerated; for it is itself imputed to itself: nor; having done the work which 
lay in its own power, will it be excusable by reason of that miscarriage of its 
accomplishment. In fact, how does the Lord demonstrate Himself as adding a 
superstructure to the Law, except by interdicting sins of the will as well (as 
other sins); while He defines not only the man who had actually invaded 
another's wedlock to be an adulterer, but likewise him who had contaminated (a 
woman) by the concupiscence of his gaze? Accordingly it is dangerous enough for 
the mind to set before itself what it is forbidden to perform, and rashly 
through the will to perfect its execution. And since the power of this will is 
such that, even without fully sating its self-gratification, it stands for a 
deed; as a deed, therefore, it shall be punished. It is utterly vain to say, "I 
willed, but yet I did not." Rather you ought to carry the thing through, because 
you will; or else not to will, because you do not carry it through. But, by the 
confession of your consciousness, you pronounce your own condemnation. For if 
you eagerly desired a good thing, you would have been anxious to carry it 
through; in like manner, as you do not carry an evil thing through, you ought 
not to have eagerly desired it. Wherever you take your stand, you are fast bound 
by guilt; because you have either willed evil, or else have not fulfilled good. 
CHAP. IV.--REPENTANCE APPLICABLE TO ALL THE KINDS OF SIN. TO BE 
PRACTISED NOT ONLY, NOR CHIEFLY, FOR THE GOOD IT BRINGS, BUT 
BECAUSE GOD COMMANDS IT.
To all sins, then, committed whether by flesh or spirit, whether by deed or 
will, the same God who has destined penalty by means of judgment, has withal 
engaged to grant pardon by means of repentance, saying to the people, "Repent 
thee, and I will save thee;" and again, "I live, saith the Lord, and I will 
(have) repentance rather than death." Repentance, then, is "life," since it is 
preferred to "death." That repentance, O sinner, like myself (nay, rather, less 
than myself, for pre-eminence in sins I acknowledge to be mine), do you so 
hasten to, so embrace, as a shipwrecked man the protection of some plank. This 
will draw you forth when sunk in the waves of sins, and will bear you forward 
into the port of the divine clemency. Seize the opportunity of unexpected 
felicity: that you, who sometime were in God's sight nothing but "a drop of a 
bucket," and "dust of the threshing-floor," and "a potter's vessel," may 
thenceforward become that "tree which is sown beside the waters, is perennial in 
leaves, bears fruit at its own time," and shall not see fire," nor "axe." Having 
found "the truth," repent of errors; repent of having loved what God loves not: 
even we ourselves do not permit our slave-lads not to hate the things which 660 
are offensive to us; for the principle of voluntary obedience consists in 
similarity of minds. 
To reckon up the good, of repentance, the subject-matter is copious, and 
therefore should be committed to great eloquence. Let us, however, in proportion 
to our narrow abilities, inculcate one point,--that what God enjoins is good and 
best. I hold it audacity to dispute about the "good" of a divine precept; for, 
indeed, it is not the fact that it is good which binds us to obey, but the fact 
that God has enjoined it. To exact the rendering of obedience the majesty of 
divine power has the prior right; the authority of Him who commands is prior to 
the utility of him who serves. "Is it good to repent, or no?" Why do you ponder? 
God enjoins; nay, He not merely enjoins, but likewise exhorts. He invites by 
(offering) reward--salvation, to wit; even by an oath, saying "I live," He 
desires that credence may be given Him. Oh blessed we, for whose Sake God 
swears! Oh most miserable, if we believe not the Lord even when He swears! What, 
therefore, God so highly commends, what He even (after human fashion) attests on 
oath, we are bound of course to approach, and to guard with the utmost 
seriousness; that, abiding permanently in (the faith of) the solemn pledge of 
divine grace, we may be able also to persevere in like manner in its fruit and 
its benefit. 
CHAP. V.--SIN NEVER TO BE RETURNED TO AFTER REPENTANCE.
For what I say is this, that the repentance which, being shown us and 
commanded us through God's grace, recalls us to grace with the Lord, when once 
learned and undertaken by us ought never afterward to be cancelled by repetition 
of sin. No pretext of ignorance now remains to plead on your behalf; in that, 
after acknowledging the Lord, and accepting His precepts--in short, after 
engaging in repentance of (past) sins--you again betake you self to sins. Thus, 
in as far as you are removed from ignorance, in so far are you cemented to 
contumacy. For if the ground on which you had repented of having sinned was that 
you had begun to fear the Lord, why have you preferred to rescind what you did 
for fear's sake, except because you have ceased to fear? For there is no other 
thing but contumacy which subverts fear. Since there is no exception which 
defends from liability to penalty even such as are ignorant of the Lord--because 
ignorance of God, openly as He is set before men, and comprehensible as He is 
even on the score of His heavenly benefits, is not possible--how perilous is it 
for Him to be despised when known? Now, that man does despise Him, who, after 
attaining by His help to an understanding of things good and evil, often an 
affront to his own understanding--that is, to God's gift--by resuming what he 
understands ought to be shunned, and what he has already shunned: he rejects the 
Giver in abandoning the gift; he denies the Benefactor in not honouring the 
benefit. 
How can he be pleasing to Him, whose gift is displeasing to himself? Thus he 
is shown to be not only contumacious toward the Lord, but likewise ungrateful. 
Besides, that man commits no light sin against the Lord, who, after he had by 
repentance renounced His rival the devil, and had under this appellation 
subjected him to the Lord, again upraises him by his own return (to the enemy), 
and makes himself a ground of exultation to him; so that the Evil One, with his 
prey recovered, rejoices anew against the Lord. Does he not--what is perilous 
even to say, but must be put forward with a view to edification--place the devil 
before the Lord? For he seems to have made the comparison who has known each; 
and to have judicially pronounced him to be the better whose (servant) he has 
preferred again to be. Thus he who, through repentance for sins, had begun to 
make satisfaction to the Lord, will, through another repentance of his 
repentance, make satisfaction to the devil, and will be the more hateful to God 
in proportion as he will be the more acceptable to His rival. But some say that 
"God is satisfied if He be looked up to with the heart and the mind, even if 
this be not done in outward act, and that thus they sin without damage to their 
fear and their faith:" that is, that they violate wedlock without damage to 
their chastity; they mingle poison for their parent without damage to their 
filial duty! Thus, then, they will themselves withal be thrust down into hell 
without damage to their pardon, while they sin without damage to their fear! 
Here is a primary example of perversity: they sin, because they fear! I suppose, 
if they feared 661 
not, they would not sin! Let him, therefore, who would not have God offended 
not revere Him at all, if fear is the plea for offending But these dispositions 
have been wont to sprout from the seed of hypocrites, whose friendship with the 
devil is indivisible, whose repentance never faithful. 
CHAP. VI.--BAPTISM NOT TO BE PRESUMPTOUSLY RECEIVED, IT REQUIRES 
PRECEDING
REPENTANCE, MANIFESTED BY AMENDMENT OF LIFE.
Whatever, then, our poor ability has attempted to suggest with reference to 
laying hold of repentance once for all, and perpetually retaining it, does 
indeed bear upon all who are given up to the Lord, as being all competitors for 
salvation in earning the favour of God; but is chiefly urgent in the case of 
those young novices who are only just beginning to bedew their ears with divine 
discourses, and who, as whelps in yet early infancy, and with eyes not yet 
perfect, creep about uncertainly, and say indeed that they renounce their former 
deed, and assume (the profession of) repentance, but neglect to complete it. For 
the very end of desiring importunes them to desire somewhat of their former 
deeds; just as fruits, when they are already beginning to turn into the sourness 
or bitterness of age, do yet still in some part flatter their own loveliness. 
Moreover, a presumptuous confidence in baptism introduces all kind of vicious 
delay and tergiversation with regard to repentance; for, feeling sure of 
undoubted pardon of their sins, men meanwhile steal the intervening time, and 
make it for themselves into a holiday-time for sinning, rather than a time for 
learning not to sin. Further, how inconsistent is it to expect pardon of sins 
(to be granted) to a repentance which they have not fulfilled! This is to hold 
out your hand for merchandise, but not produce the price. For repentance is the 
price at which the Lord has determined to award pardon: He proposes the 
redemption of release from penalty at this compensating exchange of repentance. 
If, then, sellers first examine the coin with which they make their bargains, to 
see whether it be cut, or scraped, or adulterated, we believe likewise that the 
Lord, when about to make us the grant of so costly merchandise, even of eternal 
life, first institutes a probation of our repentance. "But meanwhile let us 
defer the reality of our repentance: it will then, I suppose, be clear that we 
are amended when we are absolved." By no means; (but our amendment should be 
manifested) while, pardon being in abeyance, there is still a prospect of 
penalty; while the penitent does not yet merit--so far as merit we can--his 
liberation; while God is threatening, not while He is forgiving. For what slave, 
after his position has been changed by reception of freedom, charges himself 
with his (past) thefts and desertions? What soldier, after his discharge, makes 
satisfaction for his (former) brands? A sinner is bound to bemoan himself before 
receiving pardon, because the time of repentance is coincident with that of 
peril and of fear. Not that I deny that the divine benefit--the putting away of 
sins, I mean--is in every way sure to such as are on the point of entering the 
(baptismal) water; but what we have to labour for is, that it may be granted us 
to attain that blessing. For who will grant to you, a man of so faithless 
repentance, one single sprinkling of any water whatever? To approach it by 
stealth, indeed, and to get the minister appointed over this business misled by 
your asseverations, is easy; but God takes foresight for His own treasure, and 
suffers not the unworthy to steal a march upon it. What, in fact, does He say? 
"Nothing hid which shall not be revealed." Draw whatever (veil of) darkness you 
please over your deeds, "God is light." But some think as if God were under a 
necessity of bestowing even on the unworthy, what He has engaged (to give); and 
they turn His liberality into slavery. But if it is of necessity that God grants 
us the symbol of death, then He does so unwilling. But who permits a gift to be 
permanently retained which he has granted unwillingly? For do not many afterward 
fall out of (grace)? is not this gift taken away from many? These, no doubt, are 
they who do steal a march upon (the treasure), who, after approaching to the 
faith of repentance, set up on the sands a house doomed to ruin. Let no one, 
then, flatter himself on the ground of being assigned to the "recruit-classes" 
of learners, as if on that account he have a licence even now to sin. As soon as 
you "know the Lord, you should fear Him; as soon as you have gazed on Him, you 
should reverence Him. But what difference does your "knowing" Him make, while 
you rest in the same practises as in days bygone, when you knew Him not? What, 
moreover, is it 662 
which distinguishes you from a perfected servant of God? Is there one Christ 
for the baptized, another for the learners? Have they some different hope or 
reward? some different dread of judgment? some different necessity for 
repentance? That baptismal washing is a sealing of faith, which faith is begun 
and is commended by the faith of repentance. We are not washed in order that we 
may cease sinning, but because we have ceased, since in heart we have been 
bathed already. For the first baptism of a learner is this, a perfect fear; 
thenceforward, in so far as you have understanding of the Lord faith is sound, 
the conscience having once for all embraced repentance. Otherwise, if it is 
(only) after the baptismal waters that we cease sinning, it is of necessity, not 
of free-will, that we put on innocence. Who, then, is pro-eminent in goodness? 
he who is not allowed, or he whom it displeases, to be evil? he who is bidden, 
or he whose pleasure it is, to be free from crime? Let us, then, neither keep 
our hands from theft unless the hardness of bars withstand us, nor refrain our 
eyes from the concupiscence of fornication unless we be withdrawn by guardians 
of our persons, if no one who has surrendered himself to the Lord is to cease 
sinning unless he be bound thereto by baptism. But if any entertain this 
sentiment, I know not whether he, after baptism, do not feel more sadness to 
think that he has teased from sinning, than gladness that he hath escaped from 
it. And so it is becoming that learners desire baptism, but do not hastily 
receive it: for he who desires it, honours it; he who hastily receives it, 
disdains it: in the one appears modesty, in the other arrogance; the former 
satisfies, the latter neglects it; the former covets to merit it, but the latter 
promises it to himself as a due return; the former takes, the latter usurps it. 
Whom would you judge worthier, except one who is more amended? whom more 
amended, except one who is more timid, and on that account has fulfilled the 
duty of true repentance? for he has feared to continue still in sin, lest he 
should not merit the reception of baptism. But the hasty receiver, inasmuch as 
he promised it himself (as his due), being forsooth secure (of obtaining it), 
could not fear: thus he fulfilled not repentance either, because he lacked the 
instrumental agent of repentance, that is, fear. Hasty reception is the portion 
of irreverence; it inflates the seeker, it despises the Giver. And thus it 
sometimes deceives, for it promises to itself the gift before it be due; whereby 
He who is to furnish the gift is ever offended. 
CHAP. VII.--OF REPENTANCE, IN THE CASE OF SUCH AS HAVE LAPSED AFTER 
BAPTISM.
So long, Lord Christ, may the blessing of learning or hearing concerning the 
discipline of repentance be granted to Thy servants, as is likewise behoves 
them, while learners, not to sin; in other words, may they thereafter know 
nothing of repentance, and require nothing of it. It is irksome to append 
mention of a second--nay, in that case, the last--hope; lest, by treating of a 
remedial repenting yet in reserve, we seem to be pointing to a yet further space 
for sinning. Far be it that any one so interpret our meaning, as if, because 
there is an opening for repenting, there were even now, on that account, an 
opening for sinning; and as if the redundance of celestial clemency constituted 
a licence for human temerity. Let no one be less good because God is more so, by 
repeating his sin as often as he is forgiven. Otherwise be sure he will find an 
end of escaping, when he shall not find one of sinning. We have escaped once: 
thus far and no farther let us commit ourselves to perils, even if we seem 
likely to escape a second time. Men in general, after escaping shipwreck, 
thenceforward declare divorce with ship and sea; and by cherishing the memory of 
the danger, honour the benefit conferred by God,--their deliverance, namely. I 
praise their fear, I love their reverence; they are unwilling a second time to 
be a burden to the divine mercy; they fear to seem to trample on the benefit 
which they have attained; they shun, with a solicitude which at all events is 
good, to make trial a second time of that which they have once learned to fear. 
Thus the limit of their temerity is the evidence of their fear. Moreover, man's 
fear is an honour to God. But however, that most stubborn foe (of ours) never 
gives his malice leisure; indeed, he is then most savage when he fully feels 
that a man is freed from his clutches; he then flames fiercest while he is fast 
becoming extinguished. Grieve and groan he must of necessity over the fact that, 
by the grant of pardon, so many works of death in man have been overthrown, so 
many marks of the condemnation which for 663 
merly was his own erased. He grieves that that sinner, (now) Christ's 
servant, is destined to judge him and his angels. And so he observes, assaults, 
besieges him, in the hope that he may be able in some way either to strike his 
eyes with carnal concupiscence, or else to entangle his mind with worldly 
enticements, or else to subvert his faith by fear of earthly power, or else to 
wrest him from the sure way by perverse traditions: he is never deficient in 
stumbling-blocks nor in temptations. These poisons of his, therefore, God 
foreseeing, although the gate of forgiveness has been shut and fastened up with 
the bar of baptism, has permitted it still to stand somewhat open. In the 
vestibule He has stationed the second repentance for opening to such as knock: 
but now once far all, because now for the second time; but never more because 
the last time it had been in vain. For is not even this once enough? You have 
what you now deserved not, for you had lost what you had received. If the Lord's 
indulgence grants you the means of restoring what you had lost, be thankful for 
the benefit renewed, not to say amplified; for restoring is a greater thing than 
giving, inasmuch as having lost is more miserable than never having received at 
all. However, if any do incur the debt of a second repentance, his spirit is not 
to be forthwith cut down and undermined by despair. Let it by all means be 
irksome to sin again, but let not to repent again be irksome: irksome to imperil 
one's self again, but not to be again set free. Let none be ashamed. Repeated 
sickness must have repeated medicine. You will show your gratitude to the Lord 
by not refusing what the Lord offers you. You have offended, but can still be 
reconciled. You have One whom you may satisfy, and Him willing. 
CHAP. VIII.--EXAMPLES FROM SCRIPTURE TO PROVE THE LORD'S WILLINGNESS 
TO
PARDON.
This if you doubt, unravels the meaning of "what the Spirit saith to the 
churches." He imputes to the Ephesians "forsaken love;" reproaches the 
Thyatirenes with "fornication," and "eating of things sacrificed to idols;" 
accuses the Sardians of "works not full; " censures the Pergamenes for teaching 
perverse things; upbraids the Laodiceans for trusting to their riches; and yet 
gives them all general monitions to repentance--under comminations, it is true; 
but He would not utter comminations to one un-repentant if He did not forgive 
the repentant. The matter were doubtful if He had not withal elsewhere 
demonstrated this profusion of His clemency. Saith He not, "He who hath fallen 
shall rise again, and he who hath been averted shall be converted?" He it is, 
indeed, who "would have mercy rather than sacrifices." The heavens, and the 
angels who are there, are glad at a man's repentance. Ho! you sinner, be of good 
cheer! you see where it is that there is joy at your return. What meaning for us 
have those themes of the Lord's parables? Is not the fact that a woman has lost 
a drachma, and seeks it and finds it, and invites her female friends to share 
her joy, an example of a restored sinner? There strays, withal, one little ewe 
of the shepherd's; but the flock was not more dear than the one: that one is 
earnestly sought; the one is longed for instead of all; and at length she is 
found, and is borne back on the shoulders of the shepherd himself; for much had 
she toiled in straying. That most gentle father, likewise, I will not pass over 
in silence, who calls his prodigal son home, and willingly receives him 
repentant after his indigence, slays his best fatted calf, and graces his joy 
with a banquet. Why not? He had found the son whom he had lost; he had felt him 
to be all the dearer of whom he had made a gain. Who is that father to be 
understood by us to be? God, surely: no one is so truly a Father; no one so rich 
in paternal love. He, then, will receive you, His own son, back, even if you 
have squandered what you had received from Him, even if you return naked--just 
because you have returned; and will joy more over your return than over the 
sobriety of the other; but only if you heartily repent--if you compare your own 
hunger with the plenty of your Father's "hired servants"--if you leave behind 
you the swine, that unclean herd--if you again seek your Father, offended though 
He be, saying, "I have sinned, nor am worthy any longer to be called Thine." 
Confession of sins lightens, as much as dissimulation aggravates them; for 
confession is counselled by 664 
(a desire to make) satisfaction, dissimulation by contumacy. 
CHAP. IX.--CONCERNING THE OUTWARD MANIFESTATIONS BY WHICH THIS 
SECOND REPENTANCE IS TO BE ACCOMPANIED.
The narrower, then, the sphere of action of this second and only (remaining) 
repentance, the more laborious is its probation; in order that it may not be 
exhibited in the conscience alone, but may likewise be carried out in some 
(external) act. This act, which is more usually expressed and commonly spoken of 
under a Greek name, is exomologhsis, whereby we confess our sins to the 
Lord, not indeed as if He were ignorant of them, but inasmuch as by confession 
satisfaction is settled, of confession repentance is born; by repentance God is 
appeased. And thus exomologesis is a discipline for man's prostration and 
humiliation, enjoining a demeanor calculated to move mercy. With regard also to 
the very dress and food, it commands (the penitent) 
to lie in sackcloth and ashes, to cover his body in mourning, to lay his 
spirit low in sorrows, to exchange for severe treatment the sins which he has 
committed; moreover, to know no food and drink but such as is plain,--not for 
the stomach's sake, to wit, but the soul's; for the most part, however, to feed 
prayers on fastings, to groan, to weep and make outcries unto the Lord your God; 
to bow before the feet of the presbyters, and kneel to God's dear ones; to 
enjoin on all the brethren to be ambassadors to bear his 
deprecatory supplication (before God). All this exomologesis (does), that it 
may enhance repentance; may honour God by its fear of the (incurred) danger; 
may, by itself pronouncing against the sinner, stand in the stead of God's 
indignation, and by temporal mortification (I will not say frustrate, but) 
expunge eternal punishments. Therefore, while it abases the man, it raises 
him; while it covers him with squalor, it renders him more clean; while it 
accuses, it excuses; while it condemns, it absolves. The less quarter you give 
yourself, the more (believe me) will God give you. 
CHAP. X.--OF MEN'S SHRINKING FROM THIS SECOND REPENTANCE AND 
EXOMOLOGESIS, AND OF THE UNREASONABLENESS OF SUCH SHRINKING.
Yet most men either shun this work, as being a public exposure of themselves, 
or else defer it from day to day. I presume (as being) more mindful of modesty 
than of salvation; just like men who, having contracted some malady in the more 
private parts of the body, avoid the privity of physicians, and so perish with 
their own bashfulness. It is intolerable, forsooth, to modesty to make 
satisfaction to the offended Lord! to be restored to its forfeited salvation! 
Truly you are honourable in your modesty; bearing an open forehead for sinning, 
but an abashed one for deprecating! I give no place to bashfulness when I am a 
gainer by its loss; when itself in some son exhorts the man, saying, "Respect 
not me; it is better that I perish through you, i.e. than you through me." At 
all events, the time when (if ever) its danger is serious, is when it is a butt 
for jeering speech in the presence of insulters, where one man raises himself on 
his neighbour's ruin, where there is upward clambering over the prostrate. But 
among. brethren and fellow-servants, where there is common hope, fear, joy, 
grief, suffering, because there is a common Spirit from a common Lord and 
Father, why do you think these brothers to be anything other than yourself? Why 
flee from the partners of your own mischances, as from such as will derisively 
cheer them? The body cannot feel gladness at the trouble of any one member, it 
must necessarily join with one consent in the grief, and in labouring for the 
remedy. In a company of two is the church; but the church is Christ. When, then, 
you cast yourself at the brethren's knees, you are handling Christ, you are 
entreating Christ. In like manner, when they shed tears over you, it is Christ 
who suffers, Christ who prays the Father for mercy. What a son asks is ever 
easily obtained. Grand indeed is the reward of modesty, which the concealment of 
our fault promises us! to wit, if we do hide somewhat from the knowledge of man, 
shall we equally conceal it from God? Are the judgment of men and the knowledge 
of God so put upon a par? Is it better to be damned in secret than absolved in 
public? But you say, "It is a miserable thing thus to come to exomologesis:" 
yes, for evil does bring to misery; but where repentance is to be made, the 
misery ceases, because it is turned into something 665 
salutary. Miserable it is to be cut, and cauterized, and racked with the 
pungency of some (medicinal) powder: still, the things which heal by unpleasant 
means do, by the benefit of the cure, excuse their own offensiveness, and make 
present injury bearable for the sake of the advantage to supervene. 
CHAP. XI.--FURTHER STRICTURES ON THE SAME SUBJECT.
What if, besides the shame which they make the most account of, men dread 
likewise the bodily inconveniences; in that, unwashen, sordidly attired, 
estranged from gladness, they must spend their time in the roughness of 
sackcloth, and the horridness of ashes, and the sunkenness of face caused by 
fasting? Is it then becoming for us to supplicate for our sins in scarlet and 
purple? Hasten hither with the pin for panning the hair, and the powder for 
polishing the teeth, and some forked implement of steel or brass for cleaning 
the nails. Whatever of false brilliance, whatever of feigned redness, is to be 
had, let him diligently apply it to his lips or cheeks. Let him furthermore seek 
out baths of more genial temperature in some gardened or seaside retreat; let 
him enlarge his expenses; let him carefully seek the rarest delicacy of fatted 
fowls; let him refine his old wine: and when any shall ask him, "On whom are you 
lavishing all this?" let him say, "I have sinned against God, and am in peril of 
eternally perishing: and so now I am drooping, and wasting and torturing myself, 
that I may reconcile God to myself, whom by sinning I have offended." Why, they 
who go about canvassing for the obtaining of civil office, feel it neither 
degrading nor irksome to struggle, in behalf of such their desires, with 
annoyances to soul and body; and not annoyances merely, but likewise contumelies 
of all kinds. What meannesses of dress do they not affect? what houses do they 
not beset with early and late visits?--bowing whenever they meet any high 
personage, frequenting no banquets, associating in no entertainments, but 
voluntarily exiled from the felicity of freedom and festivity: and all that for 
the sake of the fleeting joy of a single year! Do we hesitate, when eternity is 
at stake, to endure what the competitor for consulship or praetorship puts up 
with? and shall we be tardy in offering to the offended Lord a self-chastisement 
in food and raiment, which 
Gentiles lay upon themselves when they have offended no one at all? Such are 
they of whom Scripture makes mention: "Woe to them who bind their own sins as it 
were with a long rope." 
CHAP. XII.--FINAL CONSIDERATIONS TO INDUCE TO EXOMOLOGESIS.
If you shrink back from exomologesis, consider in your heart the hell, which 
exomologesis will extinguish for you; and imagine first the magnitude of the 
penalty, that you may not hesitate about the adoption of the remedy. What do we 
esteem that treasure-house of eternal fire to be, when small vent-holes of it 
rouse such blasts of flames that neighbouring cities either are already no more, 
or are in daily expectation of the same fate? The haughtiest mountains start 
asunder in the birth-throes of their inly-gendered fire; and--which proves to us 
the perpetuity of the judgment--though they start asunder, though they be 
devoured, yet come they never to an end. Who will not account these occasional 
punishments inflicted on the mountains as examples of the judgment which menaces 
the impenitent? Who will not agree that such sparks are but some few missiles 
and sportive darts of some inestimably vast centre of fire? Therefore, since you 
know that after the first bulwarks of the Lord's baptism there still remains for 
you, in exomologesis a second reserve of aid against hell, why do you desert 
your own salvation? Why are you tardy to approach what you know heals you? Even 
dumb irrational animals recognise in their time of need the medicines which have 
been divinely assigned them. The stag, transfixed by the arrow, knows that, to 
force out the steel, and its inextricable lingerings, he must heal himself with 
dittany. The swallow, if she blinds her young, knows how to give them eyes again 
by means of her own swallow-wort. Shall the sinner, knowing that exomologesis 
has been instituted by the Lord for his restoration, pass that by which restored 
the Babylonian king to his realms? Long time had he offered to the Lord his 
repentance, working out his exomologesis by a seven years' squalor, with his 
nails wildly growing after the eagle's fashion, and his unkempt hair wearing the 
shagginess of a lion. Hard handling! Him whom men were shuddering at, God was 
receiving back. But, on the other hand, the Egyptian emperor--who, after pur 
suing the once afflicted people of God, long denied to their Lord, rushed into 
the battle--did, after so many warning plagues, perish in the parted sea, (which 
was permitted to be passable to "the People" alone,) by the backward roll of the 
waves: for repentance and her handmaid exomologesis he had cast away. 
Why should I add more touching these two planks (as it were) of human 
salvation, caring more for the business of the pen than the duty of my 
conscience? For, sinner as I am of every dye, and born for nothing save 
repentance, I cannot easily be silent about that concerning which also the very 
head and fount of the human race, and of human offence, Adam, restored by 
exomologesis to his own paradise, is not silent. 

