
Tertullian












Tertullian 
DE FUGA IN PERSECUTIONE
1. My brother Fabius, you very lately asked, because some news or other were 
communicated, whether or not we ought to flee in persecution For my part, having 
on the spot made some observations in the negative suited to the place and time, 
I also, owing to the rudeness of some persons, took away with me the subject but 
half treated, meaning to set it forth now more fully by my pen; for your inquiry 
had interested me in it, and the state of the times had already on its own 
account pressed it upon me. As persecutions in increasing number threaten us, so 
the more are we called on to give earnest thought to the question of how faith 
ought to receive them, and the duty of carefully considering it concerns you no 
less, who no doubt, by not accepting the Comforter, the guide to all truth, 
have, as was natural, opposed us hitherto in regard to other questions also. We 
have therefore applied a methodical treatment, too, to your inquiry, as we see 
that we must first come to a decision as to how the matter stands in regard to 
persecution itself, whether it comes on us from God or from the devil, that with 
the less difficulty we may get on firm ground as to our duty to meet it; for of 
everything one's knowledge is clearer when it is known from whom it has its 
origin. It is enough indeed to lay it down, (in bar of all besides,) that 
nothing happens without the will of God. But lest we be diverted from the point 
before us, we shall not by this deliverance at once give occasion to the other 
discussions if one make answer--Therefore evil and sin are both from God; the 
devil henceforth, and even we ourselves, are entirely free. The question in hand 
is persecution. With respect to this, let me in the meantime say, that nothing 
happens without God's will; on the ground that persecution is especially worthy 
of God, and, so to speak, requisite, for the approving, to wit, or if you will, 
the rejection of His professing servants. For what is the issue of persecution, 
what other result comes of it, but the approving and rejecting of faith, in 
regard to which the Lord will certainly sift His people? Persecution, by means 
of which one is declared either approved or rejected, is just the judgment of 
the Lord. But the judging properly belongs to God alone. This is that fan which 
even now cleanses the Lord's threshing-floor--the Church, I mean--winnowing the 
mixed heap of believers, and separating the grain of the martyrs from the chaff 
of the deniers; and this is also the ladder of which Jacob dreams, on which are 
seen, some mounting up to higher places, and others going down to lower. So, 
too, persecution may be viewed as a contest. By whom is the conflict proclaimed, 
but by Him by whom the crown and the rewards are offered? You find in the 
Revelation its edict, setting forth the rewards by which He incites to 
victory--those, above all, whose is the distinction of conquering in 
persecution, in very deed contending in their victorious struggle not against 
flesh and blood, but against spirits of wickedness. So, too, you will see that 
the adjudging of the contest belongs to the same glorious One, as umpire, who 
calls us to the prize. The one great thing in persecution is the promotion of 
the glory of God, as He tries and casts away, lays on and takes off. But what 
concerns the glory of God will surely come to pass by His will. And when is 
trust in God more strong, than when there is a greater fear of Him, and when 
persecution breaks out? The Church is awe-struck. Then is faith both more 
zealous in preparation, and better disciplined in fasts, and meetings, and 
prayers, and lowliness, in brotherly-kindness and love, in holiness and 
temperance. There is no room, in fact, for ought but fear and hope. So even by 
this very thing we have it clearly proved that persecution, improving as it does 
the servants of God, cannot be imputed to the devil. 
2. If, because injustice is not from God, but from the devil, and persecution 
consists of injustice (for what more unjust than that the bishops of the true 
God, that all the followers of the truth, should be dealt with after the manner 
o the vilest criminals?), persecution therefore seems to proceed from the devil, 
by whom the injustice which constitutes persecution is perpetrated, we ought to 
know, as you have neither persecution without the injustice of the devil, nor 
the trial of faith without persecution, that the injustice necessary for the 
trial of faith does not give a warrant for persecution, but supplies an agency; 
that in reality, in reference to the trial of faith, which is the reason of 
persecution, the will of God goes first, but that as the instrument of 
persecution, which is the way of trial, the injustice of the devil follows. For 
in other respects, too, injustice in proportion to the enmity it displays 
against righteousness affords occasion for attestations of that to which it is 
opposed as an enemy, that so righteousness may be perfected in injustice, as 
strength is perfected in weakness. For the weak things of the world have been 
chosen by God to confound the strong, and the foolish things of the world to 
confound its wisdom. Thus even injustice is employed, that righteousness may be 
approved in putting unrighteousness to shame. Therefore, since the service is 
not of free-will, but of subjection (for persecution is the appointment of the 
Lord for the trial of faith, but its ministry is the injustice of the devil, 
supplied that persecution may be got up), we believe that persecution comes to 
pass, no question, by the devil's agency, but not by the devil's origination. 
Satan will not be at liberty to do anything against the servants of the 
living God unless the Lord grant leave, either that He may overthrow Satan 
himself by the faith of the elect which proves victorious in the trial, or in 
the face of the world show that apostatizers to the devil's cause have been in 
reality His servants. You have the case of Job, whom the devil, unless he had 
received authority from God, could not have visited with trial, not even, in 
fact, in his property, unless the Lord had said, "Behold, all that he has I put 
at your disposal; but do not stretch out your hand against himself." In short, 
he would not even have stretched it out, unless afterwards, at his request, the 
Lord had granted him this permission also, saying, "Behold, I deliver him to 
you; only preserve his life." So he asked in the case of the apostles likewise 
an opportunity to tempt them, having it only by special allowance, since the 
Lord in the Gospel says to Peter, "Behold, Satan asked that he might sift you as 
grain; but I have prayed for you that your faith fail not;" that is, that the 
devil should not have power granted him sufficient to endanger his faith. Whence 
it is manifest that both things belong to God shaking of faith as well as the 
shielding of it, when both are sought from Him--the shaking by the devil, the 
shielding by the Son. And certainly, when the Son of God has faith's protection 
absolutely committed to Him, beseeching it of the Father, from whom He receives 
all power in heaven and on earth, how entirely out of the question is it that 
the devil should have the assailing of it in his own power! But in the prayer 
prescribed to us, when we say to our Father, "Lead us not into temptation " (now 
what greater temptation is there than persecution?), we acknowledge that that 
comes to pass by His will whom we beseech to exempt us from it. For this is what 
follows, "But deliver us from the wicked one," that is, do not lead us into 
temptation by giving us up to the wicked one, for then are we delivered from the 
power of the devil, when we are not handed over to him to be tempted. Nor would 
the devil's legion have had power over the herd of swine unless they had got it 
from God; so far are they from having power over the sheep of God. I may say 
that the bristles of the swine, too, were then counted by God, not to speak of 
the hairs of holy men. The devil, it must be owned, seems indeed to have 
power--in this case really his own--over those who do not belong to God, the 
nations being once for all counted by God as a drop of the bucket, and as the 
dust of the threshing-floor, and as the spittle of the mouth, and so thrown open 
to the devil as, in a sense, a free possession. But against those who belong to 
the household of God he may not do ought as by any right of his own, because the 
cases marked out in Scripture show when--that is, for what reasons-- he may 
touch them. For either, with a view to their being approved, the power of trial 
is granted to him, challenged or challenging, as in the instances already 
referred to, or, to secure an opposite result, the sinner is handed over to him, 
as though he were an executioner to whom belonged the inflicting of punishment, 
as in the case of Saul. "And the Spirit of the LORD," says Scripture, "departed 
from Saul, and an evil spirit from the LORD troubled and stifled him; " or the 
design is to humble, as the apostle tells us, that there was given him a stake, 
the messenger of Satan, to buffet him; and even this son of thing is not 
permitted in the case of holy men, unless it be that at the same time strength 
of endurance may be perfected in weakness. For the apostle likewise delivered 
Phygellus and Hermogenes over to Satan that by chastening they might be taught 
not to blaspheme. You see, then, that the devil receives more suitably power 
even from the servants of God; so far is he from having it by any fight of his 
own. 
3. Seeing therefore, too, these cases occur in persecutions more than at 
other times, as there is then among us more of proving or rejecting, more of 
abusing or punishing, it must be that their general occurrence is permitted or 
commanded by Him at whose will they happen even partially; by Him, I mean, who 
says, "I am He who make peace and create evil,"--that is, war, for that is the 
antithesis of peace. But what other war has our peace than persecution? If in 
its issues persecution emphatically brings either life or death, either wounds 
or healing, you have the author, too, of this. "I will smite and heal I will 
make alive and put to death." "I will burn them," He says, "as gold is burned; 
and I will try them," He says, "as silver is tried," for when the flame of 
persecution is consuming as, then the stedfastness of our faith is proved. These 
will be the fiery darts of the devil, by which faith gets a ministry of burning 
and kindling; yet by the will of God. As to this I know not who can doubt, 
unless it be persons with frivolous and frigid faith, which seizes upon those 
who with trembling assemble together in the church. For you say, seeing we 
assemble without order, and assemble at the same time, and flock in large 
numbers to the church, the heathen are led to make inquiry about us, and we are 
alarmed lest we awaken their anxieties. Do ye not know that God is Lord of all? 
And if it is God's will, then you shall suffer persecution; but if it is not, 
the heathen will be still. Believe it most surely, if indeed you believe in that 
God without whose will not even the sparrow, a penny can buy, falls to the 
ground. But we, I think, are better than many sparrows. 
4. Well, then, if it is evident from whom persecution proceeds, we are able 
at once to satisfy your doubts, and to decide from these introductory remarks 
alone, that men should not flee in it. For if persecution proceeds from God, in 
no way will it be our duty to flee from what has God as its author; a twofold 
reason opposing; for what proceeds from God ought not on the one hand to be 
avoided, and it cannot be evaded on the other. It ought not to be avoided, 
because it is good; for everything must be good on which God has cast His eye. 
And with this idea has perhaps this statement been made in Genesis, "And God saw 
because it is good;" not that He would have been ignorant of its goodness unless 
He had seen it, but to indicate by this expression that it was good because it 
was viewed by God. There are many events indeed happening by the will of God, 
and happening to somebody's harm. 
Yet for all that, a thing is therefore good because it is of God, as divine, 
as reasonable; for what is divine, and not reasonable and good? What is good, 
yet not divine? But if to the universal apprehension of mankind this seems to be 
the case, in judging, man's faculty of apprehension does not predetermine the 
nature of things, but the nature of things his power of apprehension. For every 
several nature is a certain definite reality, and it lays it on the perceptive 
power to perceive it just as it exists. Now, if that which comes from God is 
good indeed in its natural state (for there is nothing from God which is not 
good, because it is divine, and reasonable), but seems evil only to the human 
faculty, all will be right in regard to the former; with the latter the fault 
will lie. In its real nature a very good thing is chastity, and so is truth, and 
righteousness; and yet they are distasteful to many. Is perhaps the real nature 
on this account sacrificed to the sense of perception? 
Thus persecution in its own nature too is good, because it is a divine and 
reasonable appointment; but those to whom it comes as a punishment do not feel 
it to be pleasant. You see that as proceeding from Him, even that evil has a 
reasonable ground, when one in persecution is cast out of a state of salvation, 
just as you see that you have a reasonable ground for the good also, when one by 
persecution has his salvation made more secure. Unless, as it depends on the 
Lord, one either perishes irrationally, or is irrationally saved, he will not be 
able to speak of persecution as an evil, which, while it is under the direction 
of reason, is, even in respect of its evil, good. So, if persecution is in every 
way a good, because it has a natural basis, we on valid grounds lay it down, 
that what is good ought not to be shunned by us, because it is a sin to refuse 
what is good; besides that, what has been looked upon by God can no longer 
indeed be avoided, proceeding as it does from God, from whose will escape will 
not be possible. Therefore those who think that they should flee, either 
reproach God with doing what is evil, if they flee from persecution as an evil 
(for no one avoids what is good); or they count themselves stronger than God: so 
they think, who imagine it possible to escape when it is God's pleasure that 
such events should occur. 

5. But, says some one, I flee, the thing it belongs to me to do, that I may 
not perish, if I deny; it is for Him on His part, if He chooses, to bring me, 
when I flee, back before the tribunal. First answer me this: Are you sure you 
will deny if you do not flee, or are you not sure? For if you are sure, you have 
denied already, because by presupposing that you will deny, you have given 
yourself up to that about which you have made such a presupposition; and now it 
is vain for you to think of flight, that you may avoid denying, when in 
intention you have denied already. But if you are doubtful on that point, why do 
you not, in the incertitude of your fear wavering between the two different 
issues, presume that you are able rather to act a confessor's part, and so add 
to your safety, that you may not flee, just as you presuppose denial to send you 
off a fugitive? The matter stands thus--we have either both things in our own 
power, or they wholly lie with God. If it is ours to confess or to deny, why do 
we not anticipate the nobler thing, that is, that we shall confess? If you are 
not willing to confess, you are not willing to suffer; and to be unwilling to 
confess is to deny. But if the matter is wholly in God's hand, why do we not 
leave it to His will, recognising His might and power in that, just as He can 
bring us back to trial when we flee, so is He able to screen us when we do not 
flee; yes, and even living in the very heart of the people? 
Strange conduct, is it not, to honour God in the matter of flight from 
persecution, because He can bring you back from your flight to stand before the 
judgment-seat; but in regard of witness-bearing, to do Him high dishonour by 
despairing of power at His hands to shield you from danger? Why do you not 
rather on this, the side of constancy and trust in God, say, I do my part; I 
depart not; God, if He choose, will Himself be my protector? It beseems us 
better to retain our position in submission to the will of God, than to flee at 
our own will. Rutilius, a saintly martyr, after having ofttimes fled from 
persecution from place to place, nay, having bought security from danger, as he 
thought, by money, was, notwithstanding the complete security he had, as he 
thought, provided for himself, at last unexpectedly seized, and being brought 
before the magistrate, was put to the torture and cruelly mangled,--a 
punishment, I believe, for his fleeing,--and thereafter he was consigned to the 
flames, and thus paid to the mercy of God the suffering which he had shunned. 
What else did the Lord mean to show us by this example, but that we ought not to 
flee from persecution because it avails us nothing if God disapproves? 
6. Nay, says some one, he fulfilled the command, when he fled from city to 
city. For so a certain individual, but a fugitive likewise. has chosen to 
maintain, and others have done the same who are unwilling to understand the 
meaning of that declaration of the Lord, that they may use it as a cloak for 
their cowardice, although it has had its persons as well as its times and 
reasons to which it specially applies. "When they begin," He says, "to persecute 
you, flee from city to city," We maintain that this belongs specially to the 
persons of the apostles, and to their times and circumstances, as the following 
sentences will show, which are suitable only to the apostles: "Do not go into 
the way of the Gentiles, and into a city of the Samaritans do not enter: but go 
rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel." But to us the way of the 
Gentiles is also open, as in it we in fact were found, and to the very last we 
walk; and no city has been excepted. 
So we preach throughout all the world; nay, no special care even for Israel 
has been laid upon us, save as also we are bound to preach to all nations, Yes, 
and if we are apprehended, we shall not be brought into Jewish councils, nor 
scourged in Jewish synagogues, but we shall certainly be cited before Roman 
magistrates and judgment-seats. So, then, the circumstances of the apostles even 
required the injunction to flee, their mission being to preach first to the lost 
sheep of the house of Israel. That, therefore, this preaching might be fully 
accomplished in the case of those among whom this behoved first of all to be 
carried out--that the sons might receive bread before the dogs, for that reason 
He commanded them to flee then for a time--not with the object of eluding 
danger, under the plea strictly speaking which persecution urges (rather He was 
in the habit of proclaiming that they would suffer persecutions, and of teaching 
that these must be endured); but in order to further the proclamation of the 
Gospel message, lest by their being at once put down, the diffusion of the 
Gospel too might be prevented. Neither were they to flee to any city as if by 
stealth, but as if everywhere about to proclaim their message; and for this, 
everywhere about to undergo persecutions, until they should fulfil their 
teaching. Accordingly the Saviour says, "Ye will not go over all the cities of 
Israel." So the command to flee was restricted to the limits of Judea. But no 
command that shows Judea to be specially the sphere for preaching applies to us, 
now that the Holy Spirit has been poured out upon all flesh. Therefore Paul and 
the apostles themselves, mindful of the precept of the Lord, bear this solemn 
testimony before Israel, which they had now filled with their doctrine--saying, 
"It was necessary that the word of God should have been first delivered to you; 
but seeing ye have rejected it, and have not thought yourselves worthy of 
eternal life, lo, we turn to the Gentiles." And from that time they turned their 
steps away, as those who went before them had laid it down, and departed into 
the way of the Gentiles, and entered into the cities of the Samaritans; so that, 
in very deed, their sound went forth into all the earth, and their words to the 
end of the world. If, therefore, the prohibition against setting foot in the way 
of the Gentiles, and entering into the cities of the Samaritans, has come to an 
end, why should not the command to flee, which was issued at the same time, have 
come also to an end? Accordingly, from the time when, Israel having had its full 
measure, the apostles went over to the Gentiles, they neither fled from city to 
city, nor hesitated to suffer. Nay, Paul too, who had submitted to deliverance 
from persecution by being let down from the wall, as to do so was at this time a 
matter of command, refused in like manner now at the close of his ministry, and 
after the injunction had come to an end, to give in to the anxieties of the 
disciples, eagerly entreating him that he would not risk himself at Jerusalem, 
because of the sufferings in store for him which Agabus had foretold; but doing 
the very opposite, it is thus he speaks, "What do ye, weeping and disquieting my 
heart? 
For I could wish not only to suffer bonds, but also to die at Jerusalem, for 
the name of my Lord Jesus Christ." And so they all said, "Let the will of the 
Lord be done." What was the will of the Lord? Certainly no longer to flee from 
persecution. Otherwise they who had wished him rather to avoid persecution, 
might also have adduced that prior will of the Lord, in which He had commanded 
flight. Therefore, seeing even in the days of the apostles themselves, the 
command to flee was temporary, as were those also relating to the other things 
at the same time enjoined, that [command] cannot continue with us which ceased 
with our teachers, even although it had not been issued specially for them; or 
if the Lord wished it to continue, the apostles did wrong who were not careful 
to keep fleeing to the last. 
7. Let us now see whether also the rest of our Lord's ordinances accord with 
a lasting command of flight. In the first place, indeed, if persecution is from 
God, what are we to think of our being ordered to take ourselves out of its way, 
by the very party who brings it on us? For if He wanted it to be evaded, He had 
better not have sent it, that there might not be the appearance of His will 
being thwarted by another will. 
For He wished us either to suffer persecution or to flee from it. If to flee, 
how to suffer? If to suffer, how to flee? In fact, what utter inconsistency in 
the decrees of One who commands to flee, and yet urges to suffer, which is the 
very opposite! "Him who will confess Me, I also will confess before My Father." 
How will he confess, fleeing? How flee, confessing? "Of him who shall be ashamed 
of Me, will I also be ashamed before My Father." If I avoid suffering, I am 
ashamed to confess. "Happy they who suffer persecution for My name's 
sake."Unhappy, therefore, they who, by running away, will not suffer according 
to the divine command. "He who shall endure to the end shall be saved." How 
then, when you bid me flee, do you wish me to endure to the end? If views so 
opposed to each other do not comport with the divine dignity, they clearly prove 
that the command to flee had, at the time it was given, a reason of its own, 
which we have pointed out. But it is said, the Lord, providing for the weakness 
of some of His people, nevertheless, in His kindness, suggested also the haven 
of flight to them. For He was not able even without flight--a protection so 
base, and unworthy, and servile--to preserve in persecution such as He knew to 
be weak! Whereas in fact He does not cherish, but ever rejects the weak, 
teaching first, not that we are to fly from our persecutors, but rather that we 
are not to fear them. "Fear not them who are able to kill the body, but are 
unable to do ought against the soul; but fear Him who can destroy both body and 
soul in hell." And then what does He allot to the fearful? "He who will value 
his life more than Me, is not worthy of Me; and he who takes not up his cross 
and follows Me, cannot be My disciple." Last of all, in the Revelation, He does 
not propose flight to the "fearful," but a miserable portion among the rest of 
the outcast, in the lake of brimstone and fire, which is the second death. 
8. He sometimes also fled from violence Himself, but for the same reason as 
had led Him to command the apostles to do so: that is, He wanted to fulfil His 
ministry of teaching; and when it was finished, I do not say He stood firm, but 
He had no desire even to get from His Father the aid of hosts of angels: finding 
fault, too, with Peter's sword. He likewise acknowledged, it is true, that His 
"soul was troubled, even unto death," and the flesh weak; with the design, 
(however,) first of all, that by having, as His own, trouble of soul and 
weakness of the flesh, He might show you that both the substances in Him were 
truly human; lest, as certain persons have now brought it in, you might be led 
to think either the flesh or the soul of Christ different from ours; and then, 
that, by an exhibition of their states, you might be convinced that they have no 
power at all of themselves without the spirit. And for this reason He puts first 
"the willing spirit," that, looking to the natures respectively of both the 
substances, you may see that you have in you the spirit's strength as well as 
the flesh's weakness; and even from this may learn what to do, and by what means 
to do it, and what to bring under what,--the weak, namely, under the strong, 
that you may not, as is now your fashion, make excuses on the ground of the 
weakness of the flesh, forsooth, but put out of sight the strength of the 
spirit. He also asked of His Father, that if it might be, the cup of suffering 
should pass from Him. So ask you the like favour; but as He did, holding your 
position,--merely offering supplication, and adding, too, the other words: "but 
not what I will, but what Thou wilt." But when you run away, how will you make 
this request? taking, in that case, into your own hands the removal of the cup 
from you, and instead of doing what your Father wishes, doing what you wish 
yourself. 
9. The teaching of the apostles was surely in everything according to the 
mind of God: they forgot and omitted nothing of the Gospel. Where, then, do you 
show that they renewed the command to flee from city to city? In fact, it was 
utterly impossible that they should have laid down anything so utterly opposed 
to their own examples as a command to flee, while it was just from bonds, or the 
islands in which, for confessing, not fleeing from the Christian name, they were 
confined, they wrote their letters to the Churches. Paul bids us support the 
weak, but most certainly it is not when they flee. For how can the absent be 
supported by you? By bearing with them? Well, he says that people must be 
supported, if anywhere they have committed a fault through the weakness of their 
faith, just as (he enjoins) that we should comfort the faint-hearted; he does 
not say, however, that they should be sent into exile. But when he urges us not 
to give place to evil, he does not offer the suggestion that we should take to 
our heels, he only teaches that passion should be kept under restraint; and if 
he says that the time must be redeemed, because the days are evil, he wishes us 
to gain a lengthening of life, not by flight, but by wisdom. Besides, he who 
bids us shine as sons of light, does not bid us hide away out of sight as sons 
of darkness. He commands us to stand stedfast, certainly not to act an opposite. 
part by fleeing; and to be girt, not to play the fugitive or oppose the Gospel. 
He points out weapons, too, which persons who intend to run away would not 
require. And among these he notes the shield too, that ye may be able to quench 
the darts of the devil, when doubtless ye resist him, and sustain his assaults 
in their utmost force. Accordingly John also teaches that we must lay down our 
lives for the brethren; much more, then, we must do it for the Lord. This cannot 
be fulfilled by those who flee. Finally, mindful of his own Revelation, in which 
he had heard the doom of the fearful, (and so) speaking from personal knowledge, 
he warns us that fear must be put away. "There is no fear," says he, "in love; 
but perfect love casteth out fear; because fear has torment"--the fire of the 
lake, no doubt. "He that feareth is not perfect in love"--to wit, the love of 
God. And yet who will flee from persecution, but he who fears? Who will fear, 
but he who has not loved? Yes; and if you ask counsel of the Spirit, what does 
He approve more than that utterance of the Spirit? For, indeed, it incites all 
almost to go and offer themselves in martyrdom, not to flee from it; so that we 
also make mention of it. If you are exposed to public infamy, says he, it is for 
your good; for he who is not exposed to dishonour among men is sure to be so 
before the Lord. Do not be ashamed; righteousness brings you forth into the 
public gaze. Why should you be ashamed of gaining glory? The opportunity is 
given you when you are before the eyes of men. So also elsewhere: seek not to 
die on bridal beds, nor in miscarriages, nor in soft fevers, but to die the 
martyr's death, that He may be glorified who has suffered for you. 
10. But some, paying no attention to the exhortations of God, are readier to 
apply to themselves that Greek versicle of worldly wisdom, "He who fled will 
fight again;" perhaps also in the battle to flee again. And when will he who, as 
a fugitive, is a defeated man, be conqueror? A worthy soldier he furnishes to 
his commander Christ, who, so amply armed by the apostle, as soon as he hears 
persecution's trumpet, runs off from the day of persecution. I also will produce 
in answer a quotation taken from the world: "Is it a thing so very sad to die?" 
He must die, in whatever way of it, either as conquered or as conqueror. But 
although he has succumbed in denying, he has yet faced and battled with the 
torture. I had rather be one to be pitied than to be blushed for. More glorious 
is the soldier pierced with a javelin in battle, than he who has a safe skin as 
a fugitive. Do you fear man, O Christian?--you who ought to be feared by the 
angels, since you are to judge angels; who ought to be feared by evil spirits, 
since you have received power also over evil spirits; who ought to be feared by 
the whole world, since by you, too, the world is judged. You are Christ-clothed, 
you who flee before the devil, since into Christ you have been baptized. Christ, 
who is in you, is treated as of small account when you give yourself back to the 
devil, by becoming a fugitive before him. But, seeing it is from the Lord you 
flee, you taunt all runaways with the futility of their purpose. A certain bold 
prophet also had fled from the Lord, he had crossed over from Joppa in the 
direction of Tarsus, as if he could as easily transport himself away from God; 
but I find him, I do not say in the sea and on the land, but, in fact, in the 
belly even of a beast, in which he was confined for the space of three days, 
unable either to find death or even thus escape from God. How much better the 
conduct of the man who, though he fears the enemy of God, does not flee from, 
but rather despises him, relying on the protection of the Lord; or, if you will, 
having an awe of God all the greater, the more that he has stood in His 
presence, says, "It is the Lord, He is mighty. All things belong to Him; 
wherever I am, I am in His hand: let Him do as He wills, I go not away; and if 
it be His pleasure that I die, let Him destroy me Himself, while I save myself 
for Him. I had rather bring odium upon Him by dying by His will, than by 
escaping through my own anger." 
II. Thus ought every servant of God to feel and act, even one in an inferior 
place, that he may come to have a more important one, if he has made some upward 
step by his endurance of persecution. But when persons in authority 
themselves--I mean the very deacons, and presbyters, and bishops--take to 
flight, how will a layman be able to see with what view it was said, Flee from 
city to city? Thus, too, with the leaders turning their backs, who of the common 
rank will hope to persuade men to stand firm in the battle? Most assuredly a 
good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep, according to the word of Moses, 
when the Lord Christ had not as yet been revealed, but was already shadowed 
forth in himself: "If you destroy this people," he says, "destroy me also along 
with it." But Christ, confirming these foreshadowings Himself, adds: "The bad 
shepherd is he who, on seeing the wolf, flees, and leaves the sheep to be torn 
in pieces." Why, a shepherd like this will be tuned off from the farm; the wages 
to have been given him at the time of his discharge will be kept from him as 
compensation; nay, even from his former savings a restoration of the master's 
loss will be required; for "to him who hath shall be given, but from him who 
hath not shall be taken away even that which he seemeth to have." Thus Zechariah 
threatens: "Arise, O sword, against the shepherds, and pluck ye out the sheep; 
and I will turn my hand against the shepherds." And against them both Ezekiel 
and Jeremiah declaim with kindred threatenings, for their not only wickedly 
eating of the Sheep,--they feeding themselves rather than those committed to 
their charge,--but also scattering the flock, and giving it over, shepherdless, 
a prey to all the beasts of the field. And this never happens more than when in 
persecution the Church is abandoned by the clergy. If any one recognises the 
Spirit also, he will hear him branding the runaways. But if it does not become 
the keepers of the flock to flee when the wolves invade it--nay, if that is 
absolutely unlawful (for He who has declared a shepherd of this sort a bad one 
has certainly condemned him; and whatever is condemned has, without doubt, 
become unlawful)--on this ground it will not be the duty of those who have been 
set over the Church to flee in the time of persecution. But otherwise, if the 
flock should flee, the overseer of the flock would have no call to hold his 
ground, as his doing so in that case would be, without good reason, to give to 
the flock protection, which it would not require in consequence of its liberty, 
forsooth, to flee. 
12. So far, my brother, as the question proposed by you is concerned, you 
have our opinion in answer and encouragement. But he who inquires whether 
persecution ought to be shunned by us must now be prepared to consider the 
following question also: Whether, if we should not flee from it, we should at 
least buy ourselves off from it. Going further than you expected, therefore, I 
will also on this point give you my advice, distinctly affirming that 
persecution, from which it is evident we must not flee, must in like manner not 
even be bought off. The difference lies in the payment; but as flight is a 
buying off without money, so buying off is money-flight. Assuredly you have here 
too the counselling of fear. Because you fear, you buy yourself off; and so you 
flee. As regards your feet, you have stood; in respect of the money you have 
paid, you have run away. Why, in this very standing of yours there was a fleeing 
from persecution, in the release from persecution which you bought; but that you 
should ransom with money a man whom Christ has ransomed with His blood, how 
unworthy is it of God and His ways of acting, who spared not His own Son for 
you, that He might be made a curse for us, because cursed is he that hangeth on 
a tree,--Him who was led as a sheep to be a sacrifice, and just as a lamb before 
its shearer, so opened He not His mouth; but gave His back to the scourges, nay, 
His cheeks to the hands of the smiter, and turned not away His face from 
spitting, and, being numbered with the transgressors, was delivered up to death, 
nay, the death of the cross. All this took place that He might redeem us from 
our sins. The sun ceded to us the day of our redemption; hell re-transferred the 
right it had in us, and our covenant is in heaven; the everlasting gates were 
lifted up, that the King of Glory, the Lord of might, might enter in, after 
having redeemed man from earth, nay, from hell, that he might attain to heaven. 
What, now, are we to think of the man who strives against that glorious One, 
nay, slights and defiles His goods, obtained at so great a ransom--no less, in 
truth, than His most precious blood? It appears, then, that it is better to flee 
than to fall in value, if a man will not lay out for himself as much as he cost 
Christ. And the Lord indeed ransomed him from the angelic powers which rule the 
world--from the spirits of wickedness, from the darkness of this life, from 
eternal judgment, from everlasting death. But you bargain for him with an 
informer, or a soldier or some paltry thief of a ruler--under, as they say, the 
folds of the tunic--as if he were stolen goods whom Christ purchased in the face 
of the whole world, yes, and set at liberty. Will you value, then, this free man 
at any price, and possess him at any price, but the one, as we have said, it 
cost the Lord,--namely, His own blood? (And if not,) why then do you purchase 
Christ in the man in whom He dwells, as though He were some human property? No 
otherwise did Simon even try to do, when he offered the apostles money for the 
Spirit of Christ. Therefore this man also, who in buying himself has bought the 
Spirit of Christ, will hear that word, "Your money perish with you, since you 
have thought that the grace of God is to be had at a price!" Yet who will 
despise him for being (what he is), a denier? For what says that extorter? Give 
me money: assuredly that he may not deliver him up, since he tries to sell you 
nothing else than that which he is going to give you for money. When you put 
that into his hands, it is certainly your wish not to be delivered up. But not 
delivered up, had you to be held up to public ridicule? 
While, then, in being unwilling to be delivered up, you are not willing to be 
thus exposed; by this unwillingness of yours you have denied that you are what 
you have been unwilling to have it made public that you are. Nay, you say, While 
I am unwilling to be held up to the public as being what I am, I have 
acknowledged that I am what I am unwilling to be so held up as being, that is, a 
Christian. Can Christ, therefore, claim that you, as a witness for Him, have 
stedfastly shown Him forth? He who buys himself off does nothing in that way. 
Before one it might, I doubt not, be said, You have confessed Him; so also, 
on the account of your unwillingness to confess Him before many you have denied 
Him. A man's very safety will pronounce that he has fallen while getting out of 
persecution's way. He has fallen, therefore, whose desire has been to escape. 
The refusal of martyrdom is denial. A Christian is preserved by his wealth, and 
for this end has his treasures, that he may not suffer, while he will be rich 
toward God. But it is the case that Christ was rich in blood for him. Blessed 
therefore are the poor, because, He says, the kingdom of heaven is theirs who 
have the soul only treasured up. If we cannot serve God and mammon, can we be 
redeemed both by God and by mammon? For who will serve mammon more than the man 
whom mammon has ransomed? Finally, of what example do you avail yourself to 
warrant your averting by money the giving of you up? 
When did the apostles, dealing with the matter, in any time of persecution 
trouble, extricate themselves by money? And money they certainly had from the 
prices of lands which were laid down at their feet, there being, without a 
doubt, many of the rich among those who believed--men, and also women, who were 
wont, too, to minister to their comfort. When did Onesimus, or Aquila, or 
Stephen, give them aid of this kind when they were persecuted? Paul indeed, when 
Felix the governor hoped that he should receive money for him from the 
disciples, about which matter he also dealt with the apostle in private, 
certainly neither paid it himself, nor did the disciples for him. Those 
disciples, at any rate. who wept because he was equally persistent in his 
determination to go to Jerusalem, and neglectful of all means to secure himself 
from the persecutions which had been foretold as about to occur there, at last 
say, "Let the will of the Lord be done." What was that will? No doubt that he 
should suffer for the name of the Lord, not that he should be bought off. For as 
Christ laid down His life for us, so, too, we should do for Him; and not only 
for the Lord Himself, nay, but likewise for our brethren on His account. This, 
too, is the teaching of John when he declares, not that we should pay for our 
brethren, but rather that we should die for them. It makes no difference whether 
the thing not to be done by you is to buy aft a Christian, or to buy one. And so 
the will of God accords with this. Look at the condition--certainly of God's 
ordaining, in whose hand the king's heart is--of kingdoms and empires. For 
increasing the treasury there are daily provided so many 
appliances--registerings of property, taxes in kind benevolences, taxes in 
money; but never up to this time has ought of the kind been provided by bringing 
Christians under some purchase-money for the person and the sect, although 
enormous gains could be reaped from numbers too great for any to be ignorant of 
them. Bought with blood, paid for with blood, we owe no money for our head, 
because Christ is our Head. It is not fit that Christ should cost us money. How 
could martyrdoms, too, take place to the glory of the Lord, if by tribute we 
should pay for the liberty of our sect? And so he who stipulates to have it at a 
price, opposes the divine appointment. Since, therefore, Caesar has imposed 
nothing on us after this fashion of a tributary sect--in fact, such an 
imposition never canbe made,--with Antichrist now close at hand, and gaping for 
the blood, not for the money of Christians--how can it be pointed out to me that 
there is the command, "Render to Caesar the things which are Caesar's?" A 
soldier, be he an informer or an enemy, extorts money from me by threats, 
exacting nothing on Caesar's behalf; nay, doing the very opposite, when for a 
bribe he lets me go--Christian as I am, and by the laws of man a criminal. Of 
another sort is the denarius which I owe to Caesar, a thing belonging to him, 
about which the question then was started, it being a tribute coin due indeed by 
those subject to tribute, not by children. Or how shall I render to God the 
things which are God's,--certainly, therefore, His own likeness and money 
inscribed with His name, that is, a Christian man? But what do I owe God, as I 
do Caesar the denarius, but the blood which His own Son shed for me? Now if I 
owe God, indeed, a human being and my own blood; but I am now in this juncture, 
that a demand is made upon me for the payment of that debt, I am undoubtedly 
guilty of cheating God if I do my best to withhold payment. I have well kept the 
commandment, if, rendering to Caesar the things which are Caesar's, I refuse to 
God the things which are God's! 
13. But also to every one who asks me I will give on the plea of charity, not 
under any intimidation. Who asks? He says. But he who uses intimidation does not 
ask. One who threatens if he does not receive, does not crave, but compels. It 
is not alms he looks for, who comes not to be pitied, but to be feared. I will 
give, therefore, because I pity, not because I fear, when the recipient honours 
God and returns me his blessing; not when rather he both believes that he has 
conferred a favour on me, and, beholding his plunder, says, "Guilt money." Shall 
I be angry even with an enemy? But enmities have also other grounds. Yet withal 
he did not say a, betrayer, or persecutor, or one seeking to terrify you by his 
threats. For how much more shall I heap coals upon the head of a man of this 
sort, if I do not redeem myself by money? "In like manner," says Jesus, "to him 
who has taken away your coat, grant even your cloak also." But that refers to 
him who has sought to take away my property, not my faith. The cloak, too, I 
will grant, if I am not threatened with betrayal. If he threatens, I will demand 
even my coat back again. Even now, the declarations of the Lord have reasons and 
laws of their own. They are not of unlimited or universal application. And so He 
commands us to give to every one who asks, yet He Himself does not give to those 
who ask a sign. Otherwise, if you think that we should give indiscriminately to 
all who ask, that seems to me to mean that you would give, I say not wine to him 
who has a fever, but even poison or a sword to him who longs for death. But how 
we are to understand," Make to yourselves friends of mummort," let the previous 
parable teach you. The saying was addressed to the Jewish people; inasmuch as, 
having managed ill the business of the Lord which had been entrusted to them, 
they ought to have provided for themselves out of the men of mammon, which we 
then were, friends rather than enemies, and to have delivered us from the dues 
of sins which kept us from God, if they bestowed the blessing upon us, for the 
reason given by the Lord, that when grace began to depart from them, they, 
betaking themselves to our faith, might be admitted into everlasting 
habitations. Hold now any other explanation of this parable and saying you like, 
if only you clearly see that there is no likelihood of our opposers, should we 
make them friends with mammon, then receiving us into everlasting abodes. But of 
what will not cowardice convince men? As if Scripture both allowed them to flee, 
and commanded them to buy off! Finally, it is not enough if one or another is so 
rescued. Whole Churches have imposed tribute en masse on themselves. I know not 
whether it is matter for grief or shame when among hucksters, and pickpockets, 
and bath-thieves, and gamesters, and pimps, Christians too are included as 
taxpayers in the lists of free soldiers and spies. Did the apostles, with so 
much foresight, make the office of overseer of this type, that the occupants 
might be able to enjoy their rule free from anxiety, under colour of providing 
(a like freedom for their flocks)? For such a peace, forsooth, Christ, returning 
to His Father, commanded to be bought from the soldiers by gifts like those you 
have in the Saturnalia! 
14. But how shall we assemble together? say you; how shall we observe the 
ordinances of the Lord? To be sure, just as the apostles also did, who were 
protected by faith, not by money; which faith, if it can remove a mountain, can 
much more remove a soldier. Be your safeguard wisdom, not a bribe. For you will 
not have at once complete security from the people also, should you buy off the 
interference of the soldiers. Therefore all you need for your protection is to 
have both faith and wisdom: if you do not make use of these, you may lose even 
the deliverance which you have purchased for yourself; while, if you do employ 
them, you can have no need of any ransoming. Lastly, if you cannot assemble by 
day, you have the night, the light of Christ luminous against its darkness. You 
cannot run about among them one after another. Be content with a church of 
threes. It is better that you sometimes should not see your crowds, than subject 
yourselves (to a tribute bondage). 
Keep pure for Christ His betrothed virgin; let no one make gain of her. These 
things, my brother, seem to you perhaps harsh and not to be endured; but recall 
that God has said, "He who receives it, let him receive it," that is, let him 
who does not receive it go his way. He who fears to suffer, cannot belong to Him 
who suffered. But the man who does not fear to suffer, he will be perfect in 
love--in the love, it is meant, of God; "for perfect love casteth out fear." 
"And therefore many are called, but few chosen." It is not asked who is ready to 
follow the broad way, but who the narrow. And therefore the Comforter is 
requisite, who guides into all truth, and animates to all endurance. And they 
who have received Him will neither stoop to flee from persecution nor to buy it 
off, for they have the Lord Himself, One who will stand by us to aid us in 
suffering, as well as to be our mouth when we are put to the question. 
[TRANSLATED BY THE REV. S. THELWALL.] 

