
Tertullian












TERTULLIAN 
TO SCAPULA. 
[TRANSLATED BY THE REV. S. THELWALL.]
CHAP. I.
WE are not in any great perturbation or alarm about the persecutions we 
suffer from the ignorance of men; for we have attached ourselves to this sect, 
fully accepting the terms of its covenant, so that, as men whose very lives are 
not their own, we engage in these conflicts, our desire being to obtain God's 
promised rewards, and our dread lest the woes with which He threatens an 
unchristian life should overtake us. Hence we shrink not from the grapple with 
your utmost rage, coming even forth of our own accord to the contest; and 
condemnation gives us more pleas-are than acquittal. We have sent, therefore, 
this tract to you in no alarm about ourselves, but in much concern for you and 
for all our enemies, to say nothing of our friends. For our religion commands us 
to love even our enemies, and to pray for those who persecute us, aiming at a 
perfection all its own, and seeking in its disciples something of a higher type 
than the commonplace goodness of the world. For all love those who love them; it 
is peculiar to Christians alone to love those that hate them. Therefore mourning 
over your ignorance, and compassionating human error, and looking on to that 
future of which every day shows threatening signs, necessity is laid on us to 
come forth in this way also, that we may set before you the truths you will not 
listen to openly. 
CHAP. II.
We are worshippers of one God, of whose existence and character Nature 
teaches all men; at whose lightnings and thunders you tremble, whose benefits 
minister to your happiness. You think that others, too, are gods, whom we know 
to be devils. However, it is a fundamental human right, a privilege of nature, 
that every man should worship according to his own convictions: one man's 
religion neither harms nor helps another man. It is assuredly no part of 
religion to compel religion--to which free-will and not force should lead 
us--the sacrificial victims even being required of a willing mind. You will 
render no real service to your gods by compelling us to sacrifice. For they can 
have no desire of offerings from the unwilling, unless they are animated by a 
spirit of contention, which is a thing altogether undivine. Accordingly the true 
God bestows His blessings alike on wicked men and on His own elect; upon which 
account He has appointed an eternal judgment, when both thankful and unthankful 
will have to stand before His bar. Yet you have never detected us--sacrilegious 
wretches though you reckon us to be--in any theft, far less in any sacrilege. 
But the robbers of your temples, all of them swear by your gods, and worship 
them; they are not Christians, and yet it is they who are found guilty of 
sacrilegious deeds. We have not time to unfold in how many other ways your gods 
are mocked and despised by their own votaries. So, too, treason is falsely laid 
to our charge, though no one has ever been able to find followers of Albinus, or 
Niger, or Cassius, among Christians; while the very men who had sworn by the 
genii of the emperors, who had offered and vowed sacrifices for their safety, 
who had often pronounced condemnation on Christ's disciples, are till this day 
found traitors to the imperial throne. A Christian is enemy to none, least of 
all to the Emperor of Rome, whom he knows to be appointed by his God, and so 
cannot but love and honour; and whose well-being moreover, he must needs desire, 
with that of the empire over which he reigns so long as the world shall 
stand--for so long as that shall Rome continue. To the emperor, therefore, we 
render 106 
such reverential homage as is lawful for us and good for him; regarding him 
as the human being next to God who from God has received all his power, and is 
less than God alone. And this will be according to his own desires. For thus--as 
less only than the true God--he is greater than all besides. Thus he is greater 
than the very gods themselves, even they, too, being subject to him. We 
therefore sacrifice for the emperor's safety, but to our God and his, and after 
the manner God has enjoined, in simple prayer. For God, Creator of the universe, 
has no need of odours or of blood. These things are the food of devils. But we 
not only reject those wicked spirits: we overcome them; we daily hold them up to 
contempt; we exorcise them from their victims, as multitudes can testify. So all 
the more we pray for the imperial well-being, as those who seek it at the hands 
of Him who is able to bestow it. And one would think it must be abundantly clear 
to you that the religious system under whose rules we act is one inculcating a 
divine patience; since, though our numbers are so great--constituting all but 
the majority in every city--we conduct ourselves so quietly and modestly; I 
might perhaps say, known rather as individuals than as organized communities, 
and remarkable only for the reformation of our former vices. For far be it from 
us to take it ill that we have laid on us the very things we wish, or in any way 
plot the vengeance at our own hands, which we expect to come from God. 
CHAP. III.
However, as we have already remarked, it cannot but distress us that no state 
shall bear unpunished the guilt of shedding Christian blood; as you see, indeed, 
in what took place during the presidency of Hilarian, for when there had been 
some agitation about places of sepulture for our dead, and the cry arose, "No 
areoe--no burial-grounds for the Christians," it came that their own areoe, 
their threshing-floors, were awanting, for they gathered in no harvests. As to 
the rains of the bygone year, it is abundantly plain of what they were intended 
to remind men--of the deluge, no doubt, which in ancient times overtook human 
unbelief and wickedness; and as to the fires which lately hung all night over 
the walls of Carthage, they who saw them know what they threatened; and what the 
preceding thunders pealed, they who were hardened by them can tell. All these 
things are signs of God's impending wrath, which we must needs publish and 
proclaim in every possible way; and in the meanwhile we must pray it may be only 
local. Sure are they to experience it one day in its universal and final form, 
who interpret otherwise these samples of it. That sun, too, in the metropolis of 
Utica, with light all but extinguished, was a portent which could not have 
occurred from an ordinary eclipse, situated as the lord of day was in his height 
and house. You have the astrologers, consult them about it. We can point you 
also to the deaths of some provincial rulers, who in their last hours had 
painful memories of their sin in persecuting the followers of Christ. Vigellius 
Saturninus, who first here used the sword against us, lost his eyesight. 
Claudius Lucius Herminianus in Cappadocia, enraged that his wife had become a 
Christian, had treated the Christians with great cruelty: well, left alone in 
his palace, suffering under a contagious malady, he boiled out in living worms, 
and was heard exclaiming, "Let nobody know of it, lest the Christians rejoice, 
and Christian wives take encouragement." Afterwards he came to see his error in 
having tempted so many from their stedfastness by the tortures he inflicted, and 
died almost a Christian himself. In that doom which overtook Byzantium, 
Caecilius Capella could not help crying out, "Christians, rejoice!" Yes, and the 
persecutors who seem to themselves to have acted with impunity shall not escape 
the day of judgment. For you we sincerely wish it may prove to have been a 
warning only, that, immediately after you had condemned Mavilus of Adrumetum to 
the wild beasts, you were overtaken by those troubles, and that even now for the 
same reason you are called to a blood-reckoning. But do not forget the future. 
CHAP. IV.
We who are without fear ourselves are not seeking to frighten you, but we 
would save all men if possible by warning them not to fight with God. You may 
perform the duties of your charge, and yet remember the claims of humanity; if 
on no other ground than that you are liable to punishment yourself, (you ought 
to do so). For is not your commission simply to condemn those who confess their 
guilt, and to give over to the torture those 107 
who deny? You see, then, how you trespass yourselves against your 
instructions to wring from the confessing a denial. It is, in fact, an 
acknowledgment of our innocence that you refuse to condemn us at once when we 
confess. In doing your utmost to extirpate us, if that is your object, it is 
innocence you assail. But how many rulers, men more resolute and more cruel than 
you are, have contrived to get quit of such causes altogether,--as Cincius 
Severus, who himself suggested the remedy at Thysdris, pointing out how the 
Christians should answer that they might secure an acquittal; as Vespronius 
Candidus, who dismissed from his bar a Christian, on the ground that to satisfy 
his fellow-citizens would break the peace of the community; as Asper, who, in 
the case of a man who gave up his faith under slight infliction of the torture, 
did not compel the offering of sacrifice, having owned before, among the 
advocates and assessors of court, that he was annoyed at having had to meddle 
with such a case. Pudens, too, at once dismissed a Christian who was brought 
before him, perceiving from the indictment that it was a case of vexatious 
accusation; tearing the document in pieces, he refused so much as to hear him 
without the presence of his accuser, as not being consistent with the imperial 
commands. All this might be officially brought Under your notice, and by the 
very advocates, who are themselves also under obligations to us, although in 
court they give their voice as it suits them. The clerk of one of them who was 
liable to be thrown upon the ground by an evil spirit, was set free from his 
affliction; as was also the relative of another, and the little boy of a third. 
How many men of rank (to say nothing of common people) have been delivered from 
devils, and healed of diseases! Even Severus himself, the father of Antonine, 
was graciously mindful of the Christians; for he sought out the Christian 
Proculus, surnamed Torpacion, the steward of Euhodias, and in gratitude for his 
having once cured him by anointing, he kept him in his palace till the day of 
his death. Antonine, too, brought up as he was on Christian milk, was intimately 
acquainted with this man. Both women and men of highest rank, whom Severus knew 
well to be Christians, were not merely permitted by him to remain uninjured; but 
he even bore distinguished testimony in their favour, and gave them publicly 
back to us from the hands of a raging populace. Marcus Aurelius also, in his 
expedition to Germany, by the prayers his Christian soldiers offered to God, got 
rain in that well-known thirst. 
When, indeed, have not droughts been put away by our kneelings and our 
fastings? At times like these, moreover, the people crying to "the God of gods, 
the alone Omnipotent," under the name of Jupiter, have borne witness to our God. 
Then we never deny the deposit placed in our hands; we never pollute the 
marriage bed; we deal faithfully with our wards; we give aid to the needy; we 
render to none evil for evil. As for those who falsely pretend to belong to us, 
and whom we, too, repudiate, let them answer for themselves. In a word, who has 
complaint to make against us on other grounds? To what else does the Christian 
devote himself, save the affairs of his own community, which during all the long 
period of its existence no one has ever proved guilty of the incest or the 
cruelty charged against it? It is for freedom from crime so singular, for a 
probity so great, for righteousness, for purity, for faithfulness, for truth, 
for the living God, that we are consigned to the flames; for this is a 
punishment you are not wont to inflict either on the sacrilegious, or on 
undoubted public enemies, or on the treason-tainted, of whom you have so many. 
Nay, even now our people are enduring persecution from the governors of Legio 
and Mauritania; but it is only with the sword, as from the first it was ordained 
that we should suffer. But the greater our conflicts, the greater our rewards. 
CHAP. V.
Your cruelty is our glory. Only see you to it, that in having such things as 
these to endure, we do not feel ourselves constrained to rush forth to the 
combat, if only to prove that we have no dread of them, but on the contrary, 
even invite their infliction. When Arrius Antoninus was driving things hard in 
Asia, the whole Christians of the province, in one united band, presented 
themselves before his judgment-seat; on which, ordering a few to be led forth to 
execution, he said to the rest, "O miserable men, if you wish to die, you have 
precipices or halters." If we should take it into our heads to do the same thing 
here, what will you make of so many thousands, of such a multitude of men and 
women, persons of every sex and every age and every rank, when they present 
themselves before you? How many fires, how many swords will be required? What 
will be the anguish of Carthage itself, which you will have to decimate, as each 
one recognises there his rela 108 
tives and companions, as he sees there it may be men of your own order, and 
noble ladies, and all the leading persons of the city, and either kinsmen or 
friends of those of your own circle? Spare thyself, if not us poor Christians! 
Spare Carthage, if not thyself! Spare the province, which the indication of your 
purpose has subjected to the threats and extortions at once of the soldiers and 
of private enemies. 
We have no master but God. He is before you, and cannot be hidden from you, 
but to Him you can do no injury. But those whom you regard as masters are only 
men, and one day they themselves must die. Yet still this community will be 
undying, for be assured that just in the time of its seeming overthrow it is 
built up into greater power. For all who witness the noble patience of its 
martyrs, as struck with misgivings, are inflamed with desire to examine into the 
matter in question; and as soon as they come to know the truth, they straightway 
enrol themselves its disciples. 

