
Tertullian












TERTULLIAN 
THE CHAPLET, OR DE CORONA. 
CHAP. I. 
VERY lately it happened thus: while the bounty of our most excellent emperors 
was dispensed in the camp, the soldiers, laurel-crowned, were approaching. One 
of them, more a soldier of God, more steadfast than the rest of his brethren, 
who had imagined that they could serve two masters, his head alone uncovered, 
the useless crown in his hand--already even by that peculiarity known to every 
one as a Christian--was nobly conspicuous. 
Accordingly, all began to mark him out, jeering him at a distance, gnashing 
on him near at hand. The murmur is wafted to the tribune, when the person had 
just left the ranks. The tribune at once puts the question to him, Why are you 
so different in your attire? He declared that he had no liberty to wear the 
crown with the rest. Being urgently asked for his reasons, he answered, I am a 
Christian. O soldier! boasting thyself in God. Then the case was considered and 
voted on; the matter was remitted to a higher tribunal; the offender was 
conducted to the prefects. At once he put away the heavy cloak, his disburdening 
commenced; he loosed from his foot the military shoe, beginning to stand upon 
holy ground; a he gave up the sword, which was not necessary either for the 
protection of our Lord; from his hand likewise dropped the laurel crown; and 
now, purple-clad with the hope of his own blood, shod with the preparation of 
the gospel, girt with the sharper word of God, completely equipped in the 
apostles' armour, and crowned more worthily with the white crown of martyrdom, 
he awaits in prison the largess of Christ. Thereafter adverse judgments began to 
be passed upon his conduct--whether on the part of Christians I do not know, for 
those of the heathen are not different--as if he were headstrong and rash, and 
too eager to die, because, in being taken to task about a mere matter of dress, 
he brought trouble on the bearers of the Name,--he, forsooth, alone brave among 
so many soldier-brethren, he alone a Christian. It is plain that as they have 
rejected the prophecies of the Holy Spirit, they are also purposing the refusal 
of martyrdom. So they murmur that a peace so good and long is endangered for 
them. Nor do I doubt that some are already turning their back on the Scriptures, 
are making ready their luggage, are equipped for flight from city to city; for 
that is all of the gospel they care to remember. I know, too, their pastors are 
lions in peace, deer in the fight. As to the questions asked for extorting 
confessions from us, we shall teach elsewhere. Now, as they forth also the 
objection--But where are we forbidden to be crowned?--I shall take this point 
up, as more suitable to be treated of here, being the essence, in fact, of the 
present contention. 
So that, on the one hand, the inquirers who are ignorant, but anxious, may be 
instructed; and on the other, those may be refuted who try to vindicate the sin, 
especially the laurel-crowned Christians themselves, to whom it is merely a 
question of debate, as if it might be regarded as either no trespass at all, or 
at least a doubtful one, because it may be made the subject of investigation. 
That it is neither sinless nor doubtful, I shall now, however, show. 
CHAP. II.
I affirm that not one of the Faithful has ever a crown upon his head, except 
at a time of trial. That is the case with all, from catechumens to confessors 
and martyrs, or (as the case may be) deniers. Consider, then, whence the custom 
about which we are now chiefly inquiring got its authority. But when the 
question is raised why it is observed, it is meanwhile evident that it is 
observed. Therefore that can neither be regarded as no offence, or an uncertain 
one, which is perpetrated against a practice which is capable of defence, on the 
ground even of its repute, and is sufficiently ratified by the support of 
general acceptance. It is undoubted, so that we ought to inquire into the reason 
of the thing; but without prejudice to the practice, not for the purpose of 
overthrowing it, but rather of building it up, that you may all the more 
carefully observe it, when you are also satisfied as to its reason. But what 
sort of procedure is it, for one to be bringing into debate a practice, when he 
has fallen from it, and to be seeking the explanation of his having ever had it, 
when he has left it off? Since, although he may wish to seem on this account 
desirous to investigate it, that he may show that he has not done wrong in 
giving it up, it is evident that he nevertheless transgressed previously in its 
presumptuous observance. If he has done no wrong to-day in accepting the crown 
he offended before in refusing it. This treatise, therefore, will not be for 
those who not in a proper condition for inquiry, but for those who, with the 
real desire of getting instruction, bring forward, not a question for debate, 
but a request for advice. For it is from this desire that a true inquiry always 
proceeds; and I praise the faith which has believed in the duty of complying 
with the rule, before it has learned the reason of it. An easy thing it is at 
once to demand where it is written that we should not be crowned. But is it 
written that we should be crowned? Indeed, in urgently demanding the warrant of 
Scripture in a different side from their own, men prejudge that the support of 
Scripture ought no less to appear on their part. For if it shall be said that it 
is lawful to be crowned on this ground, that Scripture does not forbid it, it 
will as validly be retorted that just on this ground is the crown unlawful, 
because the Scripture does not enjoin it. What shall discipline do? Shall it 
accept both things, as if neither were forbidden? Or shall it refuse both, as if 
neither were enjoined? But "the thing which is not forbidden is freely 
permitted." I should rather say that what has not been freely allowed is 
forbidden. 
CHAP. III.
And how long shall we draw the saw to and fro through this line, when we have 
an ancient practice, which by anticipation has made for us the state, i.e., of 
the question? If no passage of Scripture has prescribed it, assuredly custom, 
which without doubt flowed from tradition, has confirmed it. For how can 
anything come into use, if it has not first been handed down? Even in pleading 
tradition, written authority, you say, must be demanded. Let us inquire, 
therefore, whether tradition, unless it be written, should not be admitted. 
Certainly we shall say that it ought not to be admitted, if no cases of other 
practices which, without any written instrument, we maintain on the ground of 
tradition alone, and the countenance thereafter of custom, affords us any 
precedent. To deal with this matter briefly, I shall begin with baptism. When we 
are going to enter the water, but a little before, in the presence of the 
congregation and under the hand of the president, we solemnly profess that we 
disown the devil, and his pomp, and his angels. Hereupon we are thrice immersed, 
making a somewhat ampler pledge than the Lord has appointed in the Gospel. Then 
when we are taken up (as new-born children), we taste first of all a mixture of 
milk and honey, and from that day we refrain from the daily bath for a whole 
week. We take also, in congregations before daybreak, and from the hand of none 
but the presidents, the sacrament of the Eucharist, which the Lord both 
commanded to be eaten at meal-times, and enjoined to be taken by all alike. As 
often as the anniversary comes round, we make offerings for the dead as birthday 
honours. We count fasting or kneeling in worship on the Lord's day to be 
unlawful. We rejoice in the same privilege also from Easter to Whitsunday. We 
feel pained should any wine or bread, even though our own, be cast upon the 
ground. At every forward step and movement, at every going in and out, when we 
put on our our clothes and shoes, when we bathe, when we sit at table, when we 
light the lamps, on couch, on 95 
seat, in all the ordinary actions of daily life, we trace upon the forehead 
the sign. 
CHAP. IV.
If, for these and other such rules, you insist upon having positive Scripture 
injunction, you will find none. Tradition will be held forth to you as the 
originator of them, custom as their strengthener, and faith as their observer. 
That reason will support tradition, and custom, and faith, you will either 
yourself perceive, or learn from some one who has. Meanwhile you will believe 
that there is some reason to which submission is due. I add still one case more, 
as it will be proper to show you how it was among the ancients also. Among the 
Jews, so usual is it for their women to have the head veiled, that they may 
thereby be recognised. I ask in this instance for the law. I put the apostle 
aside. If Rebecca at once drew down her veil, when in the distance she saw her 
betrothed, this modesty of a mere private individual could not have made a law, 
or it will have made it only for those who have the reason which she had. Let 
virgins alone be veiled, and this when they are coming to be married, and not 
till they have recognised their destined husband. If Susanna also, who was 
subjected to unveiling on her trial, furnishes an argument for the veiling of 
women, I can say here also, the veil was a voluntary thing. She had come 
accused, ashamed of the disgrace she had brought on herself, properly concealing 
her beauty, even because now she feared to please. But I should not suppose 
that, when it was her aim to please, she took walks with a veil on in her 
husband's avenue. Grant, now, that she was always veiled. In this particular 
case, too, or, in fact, in that of any other, I demand the dress-law. If I 
nowhere find a law, it follows that tradition has given the fashion in question 
to custom, to find subsequently (its authorization in) the apostle's sanction, 
from the true interpretation of reason. This instances, therefore, will make it 
sufficiently plain that you can vindicate the keeping of even unwritten 
tradition established by custom; the proper witness for tradition when 
demonstrated by long-continued observance. But even in civil matters custom is 
accepted as law, when positive legal enactment is wanting; and it is the same 
thing whether it depends on writing or on reason, since reason is, in fact, the 
basis of law. But, (you say), if reason is the ground of law, all will now 
henceforth have to be counted law, whoever brings it forward, which shall have 
reason as its ground. Or do you think that every believer is entitled to 
originate and establish a law, if only it be such as is agreeable to God, as is 
helpful to discipline, as promotes salvation, when the Lord says, "But why do 
you not even of your own selves judge what is right?" And not merely in regard 
to a judicial sentence, but in regard to every decision in matters we are called 
on to consider, the apostle also says, "If of anything you are ignorant, God 
shall reveal it unto you;" he himself, too, being accustomed to afford counsel 
though he had not the command of the Lord, and to dictate of himself as 
possessing the Spirit of God who guides into all truth. Therefore his advice 
has, by the warrant of divine reason, become equivalent to nothing less than a 
divine command. Earnestly now inquire of this teacher, keeping intact your 
regard for tradition, from whomsoever it originally sprang; nor have regard to 
the author, but to the authority, and especially that of custom itself, which on 
this very account we should revere, that we may not want an interpreter; so that 
if reason too is God's gift, you may then learn, not whether custom has to be 
followed by you, but why. 
CHAP. V.
The argument for Christian practices becomes all the stronger, when also 
nature, which is the first rule of all, supports them. Well, she is the first 
who lays it down that a crown does not become the head. But I think ours is the 
God of nature, who fashioned man; and, that he might desire, (appreciate, become 
partaker of) the pleasures afforded by His creatures, endowed him with certain 
senses, (acting) through members, which, so to speak, are their peculiar 
instruments. The sense of hearing he has planted in the ears; that of sight, 
lighted up in the eyes; that of taste, shut up in the mouth; that of smell, 
wafted into the nose; that of touch, fixed in the tips of the fingers. By means 
of these organs of the outer man doing duty to the inner man, the enjoyments of 
the divine gifts are conveyed by the senses to the soul. What, then, in flowers 
affords you enjoyment? 
96 
For it is the flowers of the field which are the peculiar, at least the 
chief, material of crowns. Either smell, you say, or colour, or both together. 
What will be the senses of colour and smell? Those of seeing and smelling, I 
suppose. What members have had these senses allotted to them? The eyes and 
the nose, if I am not mistaken. With sight and smell, then, make use of flowers, 
for these are the senses by which they are meant to be enjoyed; use them by 
means of the eyes and nose, which are the members to which these senses belong. 
You have got the thing from God, the mode of it from the world; but an 
extraordinary mode does not prevent the use of the thing in the common way. 
Let flowers, then, both when fastened into each other and tied together in 
thread and rush, be what they are when free, when loose--things to be looked at 
and smelt. You count it a crown, let us say, when you have a bunch of them bound 
together in a series, that you may carry many at one time that you may enjoy 
them all at once. Well, lay them in your bosom if they are so singularly pure, 
and strew them on your couch if they are so exquisitely soft, and consign them 
to your cup if they are so perfectly harmless. Have the pleasure of them in as 
many ways as they appeal to your senses. But what taste for a flower, what sense 
for anything belonging to a crown but its band, have you in the head, which is 
able neither to distinguish colour, nor to inhale sweet perfumes, nor to 
appreciate softness? It is as much against nature to long after a flower with 
the head, as it is to crave food with the ear, or sound with the nostril. But 
everything which is against nature deserves to be branded as monstrous among all 
men; but with us it is to be condemned also as sacrilege against God, the Lord 
and Creator of nature. 
CHAP. VI.
Demanding then a law of God, you have that common one prevailing all over the 
world, engraven on the natural tables to which the apostle too is wont to 
appeal, as when in respect. of the woman's veil he says, "Does not even Nature 
teach you?"--as when to the Romans, affirming that the heathen do by nature 
those things which the law requires, he suggests both natural law and a 
law-revealing nature. Yes, and also in the first chapter of the epistle he 
authenticates nature, when he asserts that males and females changed among 
themselves the natural use of the creature into that which is unnatural, by way 
of penal retribution for their error. We first of all indeed know God Himself by 
the teaching of Nature, calling Him God of gods, taking for granted that He is 
good, and invoking Him as Judge. Is it a question with you whether for the 
enjoyment of His creatures, Nature should be our guide, that we may not be 
carried away in the direction in which the rival of God has corrupted, along 
with man himself, the entire creation which had been made over to our race for 
certain uses, whence the apostle says that it too unwillingly became subject to 
vanity, completely bereft of its original character, first by vain, then by 
base, unrighteous, and ungodly uses? It is thus, accordingly, in the pleasures 
of the shows, that the creature is dishonoured by those who by nature indeed 
perceive that all the materials of which shows are got up belong to God, but 
lack the knowledge to perceive as well that they have all been changed by the 
devil. But with this topic we have, for the sake of our own play-lovers, 
sufficiently dealt, and that, too, in a work in Greek. 
CHAP. VII.
Let these dealers in crowns then recognize in the meantime the authority of 
Nature, on the ground of a common sense as human beings, and the certifications 
of their peculiar religion, as, according to the last chapter, worshippers of 
the God of nature; and, as it were, thus over and above what is required, let 
them consider those other reasons too which forbid us wearing crowns, especially 
on the head, and indeed crowns of every sort. For we are obliged to turn from 
the rule of Nature, which we share with mankind in general, that we may maintain 
the whole peculiarity of our Christian discipline, in relation also to other 
kinds of crowns which seem to have been provided for different uses, as being 
composed of different substances, lest, because they do not consist of flowers, 
the use of which nature has indicated (as it does in the case of this military 
laurel one itself), they may be thought not to come Under the prohibition of our 
sect, since they have escaped any objections of nature. I see, then, that we 
must go into the matter both with more research, and more fully, from its 
beginnings on through its successive stages Of growth to its more erratic 
developments. For this we need to turn to heathen literature, for things 
belonging to the heathen must be proved from their own 97 
documents. The little of this I have acquired, will, I believe, be enough. If 
there really was a Pandora, whom Hesiod mentions as the first of women, hers was 
the first head the graces crowned, for she received gifts from all the gads 
whence she got her name Pandora. But Moses, a prophet, not a poet-shepherd, 
shows us the first woman Eve having her loins more naturally girt about with 
leaves than her temples with flowers. Pandora, then, is a myth. And so we have 
to blush for the origin of the crown, even on the ground of the falsehood 
connected with it; and, as will soon appear, on the ground no less of its 
realities. For it is an undoubted fact that certain persons either originated 
the thing, or shed lustre on it. Pherecydes relates that Saturn was the first 
who wore a crown; Diodorus, that Jupiter, after conquering the Titans, was 
honoured with this gift by the rest of the gods. To Priapus also the same author 
assigns fillets; and to Ariadne a garland of gold and of Indian gems, the gift 
of Vulcan, afterwards of Bacchus, and subsequently turned into a constellation. 
Callimachus has put a vine crown upon Juno. So too at Argos, her statue, 
vine-wreathed, with a lion's skin placed beneath her feet, exhibits the 
stepmother exulting over the spoils of her two step-sons. Hercules displays upon 
his head sometimes poplar, sometimes wild-olive, sometimes parsley. You have the 
tragedy of Cerberus; you have Pindar; and besides Callimachus, who mentions that 
Apollo, too when he had killed the Delphic serpent, as a suppliant, put on a 
laurel garland; for among the ancients suppliants were wont to be crowned. 
Harpocration argues that Bacchus the same as Osiris among the Egyptians, was 
designedly crowned with ivy, because it is the nature of ivy to protect the 
brain against drowsiness. But that in another way also Bacchus was the 
originator of the laurel crown (the crown) in which he celebrated his triumph 
over the Indians, even the rabble acknowledge, when they call the days dedicated 
to him the "great crown." If you open, again, the writings of the Egyptian Leo, 
you learn that Isis was the first who discovered and wore ears of corn upon her 
head--a thing more suited to the belly. Those who want additional information 
will find an ample exposition of the subject in Claudius Saturninus, a writer of 
distinguished talent who treats this question also, for he has a book on crowns, 
so explaining their beginnings as well as causes, and kinds, and rites, that you 
find all that is charming in the flower, all that is beautiful in the leafy 
branch, and every sod or vine-shoot has been dedicated to some head or other; 
making it abundantly clear how foreign to us we should judge the custom of the 
crowned head, introduced as it was by, and thereafter constantly managed for the 
honour of, those whom the world has believed to be gods. If the devil, a liar 
from the beginning, is even in this matter working for his false system of 
godhead (idolatry), he had himself also without doubt provided for his god-lie 
being carried out. What sort of thing, then, must that be counted among the 
people of the true God, which was brought in by the nations in honour of the 
devil's candidates, and was set apart from the beginning to no other than these; 
and which even then received its consecration to idolatry by idols and in idols 
yet alive? Not as if an idol were anything, but since the things which others 
offer up to idols belong to demons. But if the things which others offer to them 
belong to demons how much more what idols offered to themselves, when they were 
in life! The demons themselves, doubtless, had made provision for themselves by 
means of those whom they had possessed, while in a state of desire and craving, 
before provision had been actually made. 
CHAP. VIII.
Hold fast in the meantime this persuasion, while I examine a question which 
comes in our way. For I already hear it is said, that many other things as well 
as crowns have been invented by those whom the world believes to be gods, and 
that they are notwithstanding to be met with both in our present usages and in 
those of early saints, and in the service of God, and in Christ Himself, who did 
His work as man by no other than these ordinary instrumentalities of human life. 
Well, let it be so; nor shall I inquire any further back into the origin of this 
things. Let Mercury have been the first who taught the knowledge of letters; I 
will own that they are requisite both for the business and commerce of life, and 
for performing our devotion to God. Nay, if he also first strung the chord to 
give forth melody, I will not deny, when listening to David, that this invention 
has been in use with the saints, and has ministered to God. Let AEsculapius have 
been the first who sought and discovered cures: Esaias mentions that he ordered 
Hezekiah medicine when he was sick. Paul, too, knows that a little wine does the 
stomach good. Let Minerva have been the first who built a ship: I shall see 
Jonah and the apostles sailing. Nay, there is more than this: for even Christ, 
we shall find, has ordinary rai 98 
ment; Paul, too, has his cloak. If at once, of every article of furniture and 
each household vessel, you name some god of the world as the originator, well, I 
must recognise Christ, both as He reclines on a couch, and when He presents a 
basin for the feet of His disciples, and when He pours water into it from a 
ewer, and when He is girt about with a linen towel--a garment specially sacred 
to Osiris. It is thus in general I reply upon the point, admitting indeed that 
we use along with others these articles, but challenging that this be judged in 
the light of the distinction between things agreeable and things opposed to 
reason, because the promiscuous employment of them is deceptive, concealing the 
corruption of the creature, by which it has been made subject to vanity. For we 
affirm that those things only are proper to be used, whether by ourselves or by 
those who lived before us, and alone befit the service of God and Christ 
Himself, which to meet the necessities of human life supply what is simply; 
useful and affords real assistance and honourable comfort, so that they may be 
well believed to have come from God's own inspiration, who first of all no doubt 
provided for and taught and ministered to the enjoyment, I should suppose, of 
His own man. As for the things which are out of this class, they are not fit to 
be used among us, especially those which on that account indeed are not to be 
found either with the world, or in the ways of Christ. 
CHAP. IX.
In short, what patriarch, what prophet, what Levite, or priest, or ruler, or 
at a later period what apostle, or preacher of the gospel, or bishop, do you 
ever find the wearer of a crown? I think not even the temple of God itself was 
crowned; as neither was the ark of the testament, nor the tabernacle of witness, 
nor the altar, nor the candlestick crowned though certainly, both on that first 
solemnity of the dedication, and in that second rejoicing for the restoration, 
crowning would have been most suitable if it were worthy of God. But if these 
things were figures of us (for we are temples of God, and altars, and lights, 
and sacred vessels), this too they in figure set forth, that the people of God 
ought not to be crowned. The reality must always correspond with the image. If, 
perhaps, you object that Christ Himself was crowned, to that you will get the 
brief reply: Be you too crowned, as He was; you have full permission. Yet even 
that crown of insolent ungodliness was not of any decree of the Jewish people. 
It was a device of the Roman soldiers, taken from the practice of the world,--a 
practice which the people of God never allowed either on the occasion of public 
rejoicing or to gratify innate luxury: so they returned from the Babylonish 
captivity with timbrels, and flutes, and psalteries, more suitably than with 
crowns; and after eating and drinking, uncrowned, they rose up to play. Neither 
would the account of the rejoicing nor the exposure of the luxury have been 
silent touching the honour or dishonour of the crown. Thus too Isaiah, as he 
says, "With timbrels, and psalteries, and flutes they drink wine," would have 
added "with crowns," if this practice had ever had place in the things of God. 
CHAP. X.
So, when you allege that the ornaments of the heathen deities are found no 
less with God, with the object of claiming among these for general use the 
head-crown, you already lay it down for yourself, that we must not have among 
us, as a thing whose use we are to share with others, what is not to be found in 
the service of God. Well, what is so unworthy of God indeed as that which is 
worthy of an idol? But what is so worthy of an idol as that which is also worthy 
of a dead man? For it is the privilege of the dead also to be thus crowned, as 
they too straightway become idols, both by their dress and the service of 
deification, which (deification) is with us a second idolatry. Wanting, then, 
the sense, it will be theirs to use the thing for which the sense is wanting, 
just as if in full possession of the sense they wished to abuse it. When there 
ceases to be any reality in the use, there is no distinction between using and 
abusing. Who can abuse a thing, when the precipient nature with which he wishes 
to carry out his purpose is not his to use it? The apostle, moreover, forbids us 
to abuse, while he would more naturally have taught us not to use, unless on the 
ground that, where there is no sense for things, there is no wrong use of them. 
But the whole affair is meaningless, and is, in fact, a dead work so far as 
concerns the idols; though, without doubt, a living one as respects the demons 
to whom the religious rite belongs. "The idols of the heathen," says David, "are 
silver and gold." "They have eyes, and see not; a nose, and 99 
smell not; hands, and they will not handle." By means of these organs, 
indeed, we are to enjoy flowers; but if he declares that those who make idols 
will be like them, they already are so who use anything after the style of idol 
adornings. "To the pure all things are pure: so, likewise, all things to the 
impure are impure;" but nothing is more impure than idols. The substances are 
themselves as creatures of God without impurity, and in this their native state 
are free to the use of all; but the ministries to which in their use they are 
devoted, makes all the difference; for I, too, kill a cock for myself, just as 
Socrates did for Aesculapius; and if the smell of some place or other offends 
me, I burn the Arabian product myself, but not with the same ceremony, nor in 
the same dress, nor with the same pomp, with which it is done to idols. If the 
creature is defiled by a mere word, as the apostle teaches, "But if any one say, 
This is offered in sacrifice to idols, you must not touch it," much more when it 
is polluted by the dress, and rites, and pomp of what is offered to the gods. 
Thus the crown also is made out to be an offering to idols; for with this 
ceremony, and dress, and pomp, it is presented in sacrifice to idols, its 
originators, to whom its use is specially given over, and chiefly on this 
account, that what has no place among the things of God may not be admitted into 
use with us as with others. Wherefore the apostle exclaims, "Flee idolatry:" 
certainly idolatry whole and entire he means. Reflect on what a thicket it is, 
and how many thorns lie hid in it. 
Nothing must be given to an idol, and so nothing must be taken from one. If 
it is inconsistent with faith to recline in an idol temple, what is it to appear 
in an idol dress? What communion have Christ and Belial? Therefore flee from it; 
for he enjoins us to keep at a distance from idolatry--to have no close dealings 
with it of any kind. Even an earthly serpent sucks in men at some distance with 
its breath. Going still further, John says, "My little children, keep yourselves 
from idols,"--not now from idolatry, as if from the service of it, but from 
idols--that is, from any resemblance to them: for it is an unworthy thing that 
you, the image of the living God, should become the likeness of an idol and a 
dead man. Thus far we assert, that this attire belongs to idols, both from the 
history of its origin, and from its use by false religion; on this ground, 
besides, that while it is not mentioned as connected with the worship of God, it 
is more and more given over to those in whose antiquities, as well as festivals 
and services, it is found. In a word, the very doors, the very victims and 
altars, the very servants and priests, are crowned. You have, in Claudius, the 
crowns of all the various colleges of priests. We have added also that 
distinction between things altogether different from each other--things, namely, 
agreeable, and things contrary to reason--in answer to those who, because there 
happens to be the use of some things in common, maintain the right of 
participation in all things. With reference to this part of the subject, 
therefore, it now remains that the special grounds for wearing crowns should be 
examined, that while we show these to be foreign, nay, even opposed to our 
Christian discipline, we may demonstrate that none of them have any plea of 
reason to support it, on the basis of which this article of dress might be 
vindicated as one in whose use we can participate, as even some others may whose 
instances are cast up to us. 
CHAP. XI.
To begin with the real ground of the military crown, I think we must first 
inquire whether warfare is proper at all for Christians. What sense is there in 
discussing the merely accidental, when that on which it rests is to be 
condemned? Do we believe it lawful for a human oath to be superadded to one 
divine, for a man to come under promise to another master after Christ, and to 
abjure father, mother, and all nearest kinsfolk, whom even the law has commanded 
us to honour and love next to God Himself, to whom the gospel, too, holding them 
only of less account than Christ, has in like manner rendered honour? Shall it 
be held lawful to make an occupation of the sword, when the Lord proclaims that 
he who uses the sword shall perish by the sword? And shall the son of peace take 
part in the battle when it does not become him even to sue at law? And shall he 
apply the chain, and the prison, and the torture, and the punishment, who is not 
the avenger even of his own wrongs? Shall he, forsooth, either keep 
watch-service for others more than for Christ, or shall he do it on the Lord's 
day, when he does not even do it for Christ Himself? 
And shall he keep guard 100 
before the temples which he has renounced? And shall he take a meal where the 
apostle has forbidden him? And shall he diligently protect by night those whom 
in the day-time he has put to flight by his exorcisms, leaning and resting on 
the spear the while with which Christ's side was pierced? Shall he carry a flag, 
too, hostile to Christ? And shall he ask a watchword from the emperor who has 
already received one from God? Shall he be disturbed in death by the trumpet of 
the trumpeter, who expects to be aroused by the angel's trump? And shall the 
Christian be burned according to camp rule, when he was not permitted to burn 
incense to an idol, when to him Christ remitted the punishment of fire? Then how 
many other offences there are involved in the performances of camp offices, 
which we must hold to involve a transgression of God's law, you may see by a 
slight survey. The very carrying of the name over from the camp of light to the 
camp of darkness is a violation of it. Of course, if faith comes later, and 
finds any preoccupied with military service, their case is different, as in the 
instance of those whom John used to receive for baptism, and of those most 
faithful centurions, I mean the centurion whom Christ approves, and the 
centurion whom Peter instructs; yet, at the same time, when a man has become a 
believer, and faith has been sealed, there must be either an immediate 
abandonment of it, which has been the course with many; or all sorts of 
quibbling will have to be resorted to in order to avoid offending God, and that 
is not allowed even outside of military service; or, last of all, for God the 
fate must be endured which a citizen-faith has been no less ready to accept. 
Neither does military service hold out escape from punishment of sins, or 
exemption from martyrdom. Nowhere does the Christian change his character. There 
is one gospel, and the same Jesus, who will one day deny every one who denies, 
and acknowledge every one who acknowledges God,--who will save, too, the life 
which has been lost for His sake; but, on the other hand, destroy that which for 
gain has been saved to His dishonour. With Him the faithful citizen is a 
soldier, just as the faithful soldier is a citizen. A state of faith admits no 
plea of necessity; they are under no necessity to sin, whose one necessity is, 
that they do not sin. For if one is pressed to the offering of sacrifice and the 
sheer denial of Christ by the necessity of torture or of punishment, yet 
discipline does not connive even at that necessity; because there is a higher 
necessity to dread denying and to undergo martyrdom, than to escape from 
suffering, and to render the homage required. In fact, an excuse of this sort 
overturns the entire essence of our sacrament, removing even the obstacle to 
voluntary sins; for it will be possible also to maintain that inclination is a 
necessity, as involving in it, forsooth, a sort of compulsion. I have, in fact, 
disposed of this very allegation of necessity with reference to the pleas by 
which crowns connected with official position are vindicated, in support of 
which it is in common use, since for this very reason offices must be either 
refused, that we may not fall into acts of sin, or martyrdoms endured that we 
may get quit of offices. Touching this primary aspect of the question, as to the 
unlawfulness even of a military life itself, I shall not add more, that the 
secondary question may be restored to its place. Indeed, if, putting my strength 
to the question, I banish from us the military life, I 
should now to no purpose issue a challenge on the matter of the military 
crown. Suppose, then, that the military service is lawful, as far as the plea 
for the crown is concerned. 
CHAP. XII.
But I first say a word also about the crown itself. This laurel one is sacred 
to Apollo or Bacchus--to the former as the god of archery, to the latter as the 
god of triumphs. In like manner Claudius teaches; when he tells us that soldiers 
are wont too to be wreathed in myrtle. For the myrtle belongs to Venus, the 
mother of the AEneadae, the mistress also of the god of war, who, through Ilia 
and the Romuli is Roman. But I do not believe that Venus is Roman as well as 
Mars, because of the vexation the concubine gave her. When military service 
again is crowned with olive, the idolatry has respect to Minerva, who is equally 
the goddess of arms--but got a crown of the tree referred to, because of the 
peace she made with Neptune. In these respects, the superstition of the military 
garland will be everywhere defiled and all-defiling. And it is further defiled, 
I 
101 
should think, also in the grounds of it. Lo the yearly public pronouncing of 
vows, what does that bear on its face to be? It takes place first in the part of 
the camp where the general's tent is, and then in the temples. In addition to 
the places, observe the words also: "We vow that you, O Jupiter, will then have 
an ox with gold-decorated horns." What does the utterance mean? Without a doubt 
the denial (of Christ). Albeit the Christian says nothing in these places with 
the mouth, he makes his response by having the crown on his head. The laurel is 
likewise commanded (to be used) at the distribution of the largess. So you see 
idolatry is not without its gain, selling, as it does, Christ for pieces of 
gold, as Judas did for pieces of silver. Will it be "Ye cannot serve God and 
mammon" to devote your energies to mammon, and to depart from God? Will it be 
"Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's, and unto God the things which 
are God's," not only not to render the human being to God, but even to take the 
denarius from Caesar? Is the laurel of the triumph made of leaves, or of 
corpses? Is it adorned with ribbons, or with tombs? Is it bedewed with 
ointments, or with the tears of wives and mothers? It may be of some Christians 
too; for Christ is also among the barbarians. Has not he who has carried (a 
crown for) this cause on his head, fought even against himself? Another son of 
service belongs to the royal guards. And indeed crowns are called (Castrenses), 
as belonging to the camp; Munificoe likewise, from the Caesarean functions they 
perform. But even then you are still the soldier and the servant of another; and 
if of two masters, of God and Caesar: but assuredly then not of Caesar, when you 
owe yourself to God, as having higher claims, I should think, even in matters in 
which both have an interest. 
CHAP. XIII.
For state reasons, the various orders of the citizens also are crowned with 
laurel crowns; but the magistrates besides with golden ones, as at Athens, and 
at Rome. Even to those are preferred the Etruscan. This appellation is given to 
the crowns which, distinguished by their gems and oak leaves of gold, they put 
on, with mantles having an embroidery of palm branches, to conduct the chariots 
containing the images of the gods to the circus. There are also provincial 
crowns of gold, needing now the larger heads of images instead of those of men. 
But your orders, and your magistracies, and your very place of meeting, the 
church, are Christ's. You belong to Him, for you have been enrolled in the books 
of life. There the blood of the Lord serves for your purple robe, and your broad 
stripe is His own cross; there the axe is already laid to the trunk of the tree; 
there is the branch out of the root of Jesse. Never mind the state horses with 
their crown. Your Lord, when, according to the Scripture, He would enter 
Jerusalem in triumph, had not even an ass of His own. These (put their trust) in 
chariots, and these in horses; but we will seek our help in the name of the Lord 
our God. From so much as a dwelling in that Babylon of John's Revelation we are 
called away; much more then from its pomp. The rabble, too, are crowned, at one 
time because of some great rejoicing for the success of the emperors; at 
another, on account of some custom belonging to municipal festivals. For luxury 
strives to make her own every occasion of public gladness. But as for you, you 
are a foreigner in this world, a citizen of Jerusalem, the city above. Our 
citizenship, the apostle says, is in heaven. You have your own registers, your 
own calendar; you have nothing to do with the joys of the world; nay, you are 
called to the very opposite, for "the world shall rejoice, but ye shall mourn." 
And I think the Lord affirms, that those who mourn are happy, not those who are 
crowned. Marriage, too, decks the bridegroom with its crown; and therefore we 
will not have heathen brides, lest they seduce us even to the idolatry with 
which among them marriage is initiated. You have the law from the patriarchs 
indeed; you have the apostle enjoining people to marry in the Lord. You have a 
crowning also on the making of a freeman; but you have been already ransomed by 
Christ, and that at a great price. How shall the world manumit the servant of 
another? Though it seems to be liberty, yet it will come to be found bondage. In 
the world everything is nominal, and nothing real. For even then, as ransomed by 
Christ, you were under no bondage to man; and now, though man has given you 
liberty, you are the servant of Christ. If you think freedom of the world to be 
real, so that you even seal it with a crown, you have returned 102 
to the slavery of man, imagining it to be freedom; you have lost the freedom 
of Christ, fancying it is slavery. Will there be any dispute as to the cause of 
crown-wearing, which contests in the games in their turn supply, and which, both 
as sacred to the gods and in honour of the dead, their own reason at once 
condemns? It only remains, that the Olympian Jupiter, and the Nemean Hercules, 
and the wretched little Archemorus, and the hapless Antinous, should be crowned 
in a Christian, that he himself may become a spectacle disgusting to behold. We 
have recounted, as I think, all the various causes of the wearing of the crown, 
and there is not one which has any place with us: all are foreign to us, unholy, 
unlawful, having been abjured already once for all in the solemn declaration of 
the sacrament. For they were of the pomp of the devil and his angels, offices of 
the world, honours, festivals, popularity huntings, false vows, exhibitions of 
human servility, empty praises, base glories, and in them all idolatry, even in 
respect of the origin of the crowns alone, with which they are all wreathed. 
Claudius will tell us in his preface, indeed, that in the poems of Homer the 
heaven also is crowned with constellations, and that no doubt by God, no doubt 
for man; therefore man himself, too, should be crowned by God. But the world 
crowns brothels, and baths, and bakehouses, and prisons, and schools, and the 
very amphitheatres, and the chambers where the clothes are stripped from dead 
gladiators, and the very biers of the dead. How sacred and holy, how venerable 
and pure is this article of dress, determine not from the heaven of poetry 
alone, but from the traffickings of the whole world. But indeed a Christian will 
not even dishonour his own gate with laurel crowns, if so be he knows how many 
gods the devil has attached to doors; Janus so-called from gate, Limentinus from 
threshold, Forcus and Carna from leaves and hinges; among the Greeks, too, the 
Thyraean Apollo, and the evil spirits, the Antelii. 
CHAP. XIV.
Much less may the Christian put the service of idolatry on his own head--nay, 
I might have said, upon Christ, since Christ is the Head of the Christian man-- 
(for his head) is as free as even Christ is, under no obligation to wear a 
covernig, not to say a band. But even the head which is bound to have the veil, 
I mean woman's, as already taken possession of by this very thing, is not open 
also to a band. She has the burden of her own humility to bear. If she ought not 
to appear with her head uncovered on account of the angels, much more with a 
crown on it will she offend those (elders) who perhaps are then wearing crowns 
above. For what is a crown on the head of a woman, but beauty made seductive, 
but mark of utter wantonness,--a notable casting away of modesty, a setting 
temptation on fire? Therefore a woman, taking counsel from the apostles' 
foresight, will not too elaborately adorn herself, that she may not either be 
crowned with any exquisite arrangement of her hair. What sort of garland, 
however, I pray you, did He who is the Head of the man and the glory of the 
woman, Christ Jesus, the Husband of the church, submit to in behalf of both 
sexes? Of thorns, I think, and thistles,--a figure of the sins which the soil of 
the flesh brought forth for us, but which the power of the cross removed, 
blunting, in its endurance by the head of our Lord, death's every sting. Yes, 
and besides the figure, there is contumely with ready lip, and dishonour, and 
infamy, and the ferocity involved in the cruel things which then disfigured and 
lacerated the temples of the Lord, that you may now be crowned with laurel, and 
myrtle, and olive, and any famous branch, and which is of more use, with 
hundred-leaved roses too, culled from the garden of Midas, and with both kinds 
of lily, and with violets of all sorts, perhaps also with gems and gold, so as 
even to rival that crown of Christ which He afterwards obtained. For it was 
after the gall He tasted the honeycomb and He was not greeted as King of Glory 
in heavenly places till He had been condemned to the cross as King of the Jews, 
having first been made by the Father for a time a little less than the angels, 
and so crowned with glory and honour. If for these things, you owe your own head 
to Him, repay it if you can, such as He presented His for yours; or be not 
crowned with flowers at all, if you cannot be with thorns, because you may not 
be with flowers. 
CHAP. XV. 
Keep for God His own property untainted; He will crown it if He choose. Nay, 
then, He does even choose. He calls us to it. To him who conquers He says, "I 
will give a crown Of life." Be you, too, faithful unto 103 
death, and fight you, too, the good fight, whose crown the apostle feels so 
justly confident has been laid up for him. The angel also, as he goes forth on a 
white horse, conquering and to conquer, receives a crown of victory; and another 
is adorned with an encircling rainbow (as it were in its fair colours)--a 
celestial meadow. In like manner, the elders sit crowned around, crowned too 
with a crown of gold, and the Son of Man Himself flashes out above the clouds. 
If such are the appearances in the vision of the seer, of what sort will be the 
realities in the actual manifestation? Look at those crowns. Inhale those 
odours. Why condemn you to a little chaplet, or a twisted headband, the brow 
which has been destined for a diadem? For Christ Jesus has made us even kings to 
God and His Father. What have you in common with the flower which is to die? You 
have a flower in the Branch of Jesse, upon which the grace of the Divine Spirit 
in all its fulness rested--a flower undefiled, unfading, everlasting, by 
choosing which the good soldier, too, has got promotion in the heavenly ranks. 
Blush, ye fellow-soldiers of his, henceforth not to be condemned even by him, 
but by some soldier of Mithras, who, at his initiation in the gloomy cavern, in 
the camp, it may well be said, of darkness, when at the sword's point a crown is 
presented to him, as though in mimicry of martyrdom, and thereupon put upon his 
head, is admonished to resist and east it off, and, if you like, transfer it to 
his shoulder, saying that Mithras is his crown. And thenceforth he is never 
crowned; and he has that for a mark to show who he is, if anywhere he be 
subjected to trial in respect of his religion; and he is at once believed to be 
a soldier of Mithras if he throws the crown away--if he say that in his god he 
has his crown. Let us take note of the devices of the devil, who is wont to ape 
some of God's things with no other design than, by the faithfulness of his 
servants, to put us to shame, and to condemn us. 

