
Tertullian












The Passion of the Holy 
    MartyrsPerpetua and Felicitas
PREFACE
If ancient illustrations of faith which both testify to God's grace and 
    tend to man's edification are collected in writing, so that by the perusal 
    of them, as if by the reproduction of the facts, as well God may be 
    honoured, as man may be strengthened; why should not new instances be also 
    collected, that shall be equally suitable for both purposes — if only on the 
    ground that these modern examples will one day become ancient and available 
    for posterity, although in their present time they are esteemed of less 
    authority, by reason of the presumed veneration for antiquity? But let men 
    look to it, if they judge the power of the Holy Spirit to be one, 
    according to the times and seasons; since some things of later date must be 
    esteemed of more account as being nearer to the very last times, in 
    accordance with the exuberance of grace manifested to the final periods 
    determined for the world. For "in the last days, saith the Lord, I will pour 
    out of my Spirit upon all flesh; and their sons and their daughters shall 
    prophesy. And upon my servants and my handmaidens will I pour out of my 
    Spirit; and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream 
    dreams." And thus we — who both acknowledge and reverence, even as we do the 
    prophecies, modern visions as equally promised to us, and consider the other 
    powers of the Holy 
    Spirit as an agency of the Church for which also 
    He was sent, administering all gifts in all, even as 
    the Lord distributed to every one as well needfully collect them in writing, 
    as commemorate them in reading to God's glory; that so no weakness or 
    despondency of faith may suppose that the divine grace abode only among the 
    ancients, whether in respect of the condescension that raised up  
    martyrs, or that gave 
    revelations; since God always carries into effect what He has promised, for 
    a testimony to unbelievers, to believers for a benefit. And we therefore, 
    what we have heard and handled, declare also to you, brethren and little 
    children, that as well you who were concerned in these matters may be 
    reminded of them again to the glory of the Lord, as that you who know them 
    by report may have communion with the blessed 
    martyrs, and through 
    them with the Lord 
    Jesus Christ, to whom be glory and honour, for ever and ever.  
    Amen. 
    CHAPTER I WHEN THE SAINTS WERE 
    APPREHENDED, ST. PERPETUA SUCCESSFULLY RESISTED HER FATHER'S PLEADING, WAS 
    BAPTIZED WITH THE OTHERS, WAS THRUST INTO A FILTHY DUNGEON. ANXIOUS ABOUT 
    HER INFANT, BY A VISION GRANTED TO HER, SHE UNDERSTOOD THAT HER MARTYRDOM 
    WOULD TAKE PLACE VERY SHORTLY.
1. The young catechumens, Revocatus 
    and his fellow-servant Felicitas, Saturninus 
    and Secundulus, were apprehended. And among them also was 
    Vivia Perpetua, 
    respectably born, liberally educated, a married matron, having a father and 
    mother and two brothers, one of whom, like herself, was a 
    catechumen, and a son 
    an infant at the breast. She herself was about twenty-two years of age. From 
    this point onward she shall herself narrate the whole course of her  
    martyrdom, as she left 
    it described by her own hand and with her own mind. 
    2. "While" says she, "we were still with the persecutors, and my father, 
    for the sake of his affection for me, was persisting in seeking to turn me 
    away, and to cast me down from the faith — 'Father,' said I, 'do you see, 
    let us say, this vessel lying here to be a little pitcher, or something 
    else?' And he said, 'I see it to be so.' And I replied to him, 'Can it be 
    called by any other name than what it is?' And he said, 'No.' 'Neither can I 
    call myself anything else than what I am, a 
    Christian.' Then my 
    father, provoked at this saying, threw himself upon me, as if he would tear 
    my eyes out. But he only distressed me, and went away overcome by the
    devil's arguments. 
    Then, in a few days after I had been without my father, I gave thanks to the 
    Lord; and his absence became a source of consolation to me. In that same 
    interval of a few days we were baptized, and to me 
    the Spirit prescribed that in the water baptism nothing else was to be 
    sought for bodily endurance. After a few days we are taken into the dungeon, 
    and I was very much afraid, because I had never felt such darkness. O 
    terrible day! O the fierce heat of the shock of the soldiery, because of the 
    crowds! I was very unusually distressed by my anxiety for my infant. There 
    were present there Tertius and Pomponius, the blessed 
    deacons who ministered 
    to us, and had arranged by means of a gratuity that we might be refreshed by 
    being sent out for a few hours into a pleasanter part of the prison. Then 
    going out of the dungeon, all attended to their own wants. I suckled my 
    child, which was now enfeebled with hunger. In my anxiety for it, I 
    addressed my mother and comforted my brother, and commended to their care my 
    son. I was languishing because I had seen them languishing on my account. 
    Such solicitude I suffered for many days, and I obtained for my infant to 
    remain in the dungeon with me; and forthwith I grew strong and was relieved 
    from distress and anxiety about my infant; and the dungeon became to me as 
    it were a palace, so that I preferred being there to being elsewhere. 
    3. "Then my brother said to me, 'My dear sister, you are already in a 
    position of great dignity, and are such that you may ask for a
    vision, and that it 
    may be made known to you whether this is to result in a passion or an 
    escape.' And I, who knew that I was privileged to converse with the Lord, 
    whose kindnesses I had found to be so great, boldly promised him, and said, 
    'Tomorrow I will tell you.' And I asked, and this was what was shown me. I 
    saw a golden ladder of marvellous height, reaching up even to  
    heaven, and very 
    narrow, so that persons could only ascend it one by one; and on the sides of 
    the ladder was fixed every kind of iron weapon. There were there swords, 
    lances, hooks, daggers; so that if any one went up carelessly, or not 
    looking upwards, he would be torn to pieces and his flesh would cleave to 
    the iron weapons. And under the ladder itself was crouching a dragon of 
    wonderful size, who lay in wait for those who ascended, and frightened them 
    from the ascent. And Saturus went up first, who had subsequently delivered 
    himself up freely on our account, not having been present at the time that 
    we were taken prisoners. And he attained the top of the ladder, and turned 
    towards me, and said to me, Perpetua, I am waiting for you; but be careful 
    that the dragon do not bite you.' And I said, 'In the name of the  
    Lord Jesus Christ, he 
    shall not hurt me.' And from under the ladder itself, as if in fear of me, 
    he slowly lifted up his head; and as I trod upon the first step, I trod upon 
    his head. And I went up, and I saw an immense extent of garden, and in the 
    midst of the garden a white-haired man sitting in the dress of a shepherd, 
    of a large stature, milking sheep; and standing around were many thousand 
    white-robed ones. And he raised his head, and looked upon me, and said to 
    me, 'Thou are welcome, daughter.' And he called me, and from the cheese as 
    he was milking he gave me as it were a little cake, and I received it with 
    folded hands; and I ate it, and all who stood around said 
    Amen. And at 
    the sound of their voices I was awakened, still tasting a sweetness which I 
    cannot describe. And I immediately related this to my brother, and we 
    understood that it was to be a passion, and we ceased henceforth to have any 
    hope in this world. 
    CHAPTER IIPERPETUA, WHEN BESIEGED BY 
    HER FATHER, COMFORTS HIM. WHEN LED WITH OTHERS TO THE TRIBUNAL, SHE AVOWS 
    HERSELF A CHRISTIAN, AND IS CONDEMNED WITH THE REST TO THE WILD BEASTS. SHE 
    PRAYS FOR HER BROTHER DINOCRATES, WHO WAS DEAD.
I. "After a few days there prevailed a report that we should be heard. 
    And then my father came to me from the city, worn out with anxiety. He came 
    up to me, that he might cast me down, saying, 'Have pity my daughter, on my 
    grey hairs. Have pity on your father, if I am worthy to be called a father 
    by you. If with these hands I have brought you up to this flower of your 
    age, if I have preferred you to all your brothers, do not deliver me up to 
    the scorn of men. Have regard to your brothers, have regard to your mother 
    and your aunt, have regard to your son, who will not be able to live after 
    you. 
    Lay aside your courage, and do not bring us all to destruction; for none 
    of us will speak in freedom if you should suffer anything.' These things 
    said my father in his affection, kissing my hands, and throwing himself at 
    my feet; and with tears he called me not Daughter, but Lady. And I grieved 
    over the grey hairs of my father, that he alone of all my family would not 
    rejoice over my passion. And I comforted him, saying, 'On that scaffold 
    whatever God wills shall happen. For know that we are not placed in our own 
    power, but in that of God.' And he departed from me in sorrrow. 
    2. "Another day, while we were at dinner, we were suddenly taken away to 
    be heard, and we arrived at the town-hall. At once the rumour spread through 
    the neighbourhood of the public place, and an immense number of people were 
    gathered together. We mount the platform. The rest were interrogated, and 
    confessed. Then they came to me, and my father immediately appeared with my 
    boy, and withdrew me from the step, and said in a supplicating tone, 'Have 
    pity on your babe.' And Hilarianus the procurator, who had just received the 
    power of life and death in the place of the proconsul Minucius Timinianus, 
    who was deceased, said, 'Spare the grey hairs of your father, spare the 
    infancy of your boy, offer sacrifice for the well-being of the emperors.' 
    And I replied, 'I will not do so.' Hilarianus said, 'Are you a Christian?' 
    And I replied, 'I am a Christian.' 
    And as my father stood there to cast me down from the faith, he was 
    ordered by Hilarianus to be thrown down, and was beaten with rods. And my 
    father's misfortune grieved me as if I myself had been beaten, I so grieved 
    for his wretched old age. The procurator then delivers judgment on all of 
    us, and condemns us to the wild beasts, and we went down cheerfully to the 
    dungeon. Then, because my child had been used to receive suck from me, and 
    to stay with me in the prison, I send Pomponius the deacon to my father to 
    ask for the infant, but my father would not give it him. And even as God 
    willed it, the child no long desired the breast, nor did my breast cause me 
    uneasiness, lest I should be tormented by care for my babe and by the pain 
    of my breasts at once. 
    3. "After a few days, whilst we were all praying, on a sudden, in the 
    middle of our prayer, there came to me a word, and I named Dinocrates; and I 
    was amazed that that name had never come into my mind until then, and I was 
    grieved as I remembered his misfortune. And I felt myself immediately to be 
    worthy, and to be called on to ask on his behalf. And for him I began 
    earnestly to make supplication, and to cry with groaning to the Lord. 
    Without delay, on that very night, this was shown to me in a vision. I saw 
    Dinocrates going out from a gloomy place, where also there were several 
    others, and he was parched and very thirsty, with a filthy countenance and 
    pallid colour, and the wound on his face which he had when he died. This 
    Dinocrates had been my brother after the flesh, seven years of age? who died 
    miserably with disease — his face being so eaten out with cancer, that his 
    death caused repugnance to all men. For him I had made my prayer, and 
    between him and me there was a large interval, so that neither of us could 
    approach to the other. And moreover, in the same place where Dinocrates was, 
    there was a pool full of water, having its brink higher than was the stature 
    of the boy; and Dinocrates raised himself up as if to drink. And I was 
    grieved that, although that pool held water, still, on account of the height 
    to its brink, he could not drink. And I was aroused, and knew that my 
    brother was in suffering. But I trusted that my prayer would bring help to 
    his suffering; and I prayed for him every day until we passed over into the 
    prison of the camp, for we were to fight in the camp-show. Then was the 
    birthday of Geta Caesar, and I made my prayer for my brother day and night, 
    groaning and weeping that he might be granted to me. 
    4. "Then, on the day on which we remained in fetters, this was shown to 
    me. I saw that that place which I had formerly observed to be in gloom was 
    now bright; and Dinocrates, with a clean body well clad, was finding 
    refreshment. And where there had been a wound, I saw a scar; and that pool 
    which I had before seen, I saw now with its margin lowered even to the boy's 
    navel. And one drew water from the pool incessantly, and upon its brink was 
    a goblet filled with water; and Dinocrates drew near and began to drink from 
    it, and the goblet did not fail. And when he was satisfied, he went away 
    from the water to play joyously, after the manner of children, and I awoke. 
    Then I understood that he was translated from the  
    place of punishment. 
    CHAPTER IIIPERPETUA IS AGAIN TEMPTED BY 
    HER FATHER. HER THIRD VISION, WHEREIN SHE IS LED AWAY TO STRUGGLE AGAINST AN 
    EGYPTIAN. SHE FIGHTS, CONQUERS, AND RECEIVES THE REWARD.
1. "Again, after a few days, Pudens, a soldier, an assistant overseer of 
    the prison, who began to regard us in great esteem, perceiving that the 
    great power of God was in us, admitted many brethren to see us, that both we 
    and they might be mutually refreshed. And when the day of the exhibition 
    drew near my father, worn with suffering, came in to me, and began to tear 
    out his beard, and to throw himself on the earth, and to cast himself down 
    on his face, and to reproach his years, and to utter such words as might 
    move all creation. I grieved for his unhappy old age. 
    2. "The day before that on which we were to fight, I saw in a vision that 
    Pomponius the deacon came hither to the gate of the prison, and knocked 
    vehemently. I went out to him, and opened the gate for him; and he was 
    clothed in a richly ornamented white robe, and he had on manifold 
    calliculae. And he said to me, 'Perpetua, we are waiting for you; come!' And 
    he held his hand to me, and we began to go through rough and winding places. 
    Scarcely at length had we arrived breathless at the amphitheatre, when he 
    led me into the middle of the arena, and said to me, 'Do not fear, I am here 
    with you, and I am labouring with you;' and he departed. And I gazed upon an 
    immense assembly in astonishment. And because I knew that I was given to the 
    wild beasts, I marvelled that the wild beasts were not let loose upon me. 
    Then there came forth against me a certain Egyptian, horrible in appearance, 
    with his backers, to fight with me. And there came to me, as my helpers and 
    encouragers, handsome youths; and I was stripped, and became a man? Then my 
    helpers began to rub me with oil, as is the custom for contest; and I beheld 
    that Egyptian on the other hand rolling in the dust. And a certain man came 
    forth, of wondrous height, so that he even over-topped the top of the 
    amphitheatre; and he wore a loose tunic and a purple robe between two bands 
    over the middle of the breast; and he had on calliculae of varied form, made 
    of gold and silver; and he carried a rod, as if he were a trainer of 
    gladiators, and a green branch upon which were apples of gold. And he called 
    for silence, and said, 'This Egyptian, if he should overcome this woman, 
    shall kill her with the sword; and if she shall conquer him, she shall 
    receive this branch.' Then he departed. And we drew near to one another, and 
    began to deal out blows. He sought to lay hold of my feet, while I struck at 
    his face with my heels; and I was lifted up in the air, and began thus to 
    thrust at him as if spurning the earth. But when I saw that there was some 
    delay I joined my hands so as to twine my fingers with one another; and I 
    took hold upon his head, and he fell on his face, and I trod upon his head? 
    And the people began to shout, and my backers to exult. And I drew near to 
    the trainer and took the branch; and he kissed me, and said to me, 
    'Daughter, peace be with you:' and I began to go gloriously to the 
    Sanavivarian gate. Then I awoke, and perceived that I was not to fight with 
    beasts, but against the devil. Still I knew 
    that the victory was awaiting me. This, so far, I have completed several 
    days before the exhibition; but what passed at the exhibition itself let who 
    will write." 
    CHAPTER IVSATURUS, IN A VISION, AND 
    PERPETUA BEING CARRIED BY ANGELS INTO THE GREAT LIGHT, BEHOLD THE MARTYRS. 
    BEING BROUGHT TO THE THRONE OF GOD, ARE RECEIVED WITH A KISS. THEY RECONCILE 
    OPTATUS THE BISHOP AND ASPASIUS THE PRESBYTER.
1. Moreover, also, the blessed Saturus related this his vision, which he 
    himself committed to writing: — " We had suffered," says he, "and we were 
    gone forth from the flesh, and we were beginning to be borne by four angels 
    into the east; and their hands touched us not. And we floated not supine, 
    looking upwards, but as if ascending a gentle slope. And being set free, we 
    at length saw the first boundless light; and I said, 'Perpetua' (for she was 
    at my side), 'this is what the Lord promised to us; we have received the 
    promise.' And while we are borne by those same four angels, there appears to 
    us a vast space which was like a pleasure-garden, having rose-trees and 
    every kind of flower. And the height of the trees was after the measure of a 
    cypress, and their leaves were falling incessantly. Moreover, there in the 
    pleasure-garden four other angels appeared, brighter than the previous ones, 
    who, when they saw us, gave us honour, and said to the rest of the angels, 
    'Here they are! Here they are!' with admiration. And those four angels who 
    bore us, being greatly afraid, put us down; and we passed over on foot the 
    space of a furlong in a broad path. There we found Jocundus and Saturninus 
    and Artaxius, who having suffered the same persecution were burnt alive; and 
    Quintus, who also himself a martyr had departed in 
    the prison. And we asked of them where the rest were. And the angels said to 
    us, 'Come first, enter and greet your Lord.' 
    2. "And we came near to place, the walls of which were such as if they 
    were built of light; and before the gate of that place stood four angels, 
    who clothed those who entered with white robes. And being clothed, we 
    entered and saw the boundless light, and heard the united voice of some who 
    said without ceasing, Holy! Holy! Holy!' And in the midst of that place we 
    saw as it were a hoary man sitting, having snow-white hair, and with a 
    youthful countenance; and his feet we saw not. And on his right hand and on 
    his left were four-and-twenty elders, and behind them a great many others 
    were standing. We entered with great wonder, and stood before the throne; 
    and the four angels raised us up, and we kissed Him, and He passed His hand 
    over our face. And the rest of the elders said to us, 'Let us stand;' and we 
    stood and made peace. And the elders said to us, and enjoy.' And I said, 
    'Perpetua, you have what you wish.' And she said to me, 'Thanks be to God, 
    that joyous as I was in the flesh, I am now more joyous here.' 
    3. "And we went forth, and saw before the entrance Optatus the bishop at 
    the right hand, and Aspasius the presbyter, a teacher, at the left hand, 
    separate and sad; and they cast themselves at our feet, and said to us, 
    'Restore peace between us, because you have gone forth and have left us 
    thus.' And we said to them, 'Art not thou our father, and thou our 
    presbyter, that you should cast yourselves at our feet?" And we prostrated 
    ourselves, and we embraced them; and Perpetua began to speak with them, and 
    we drew them apart in the pleasure-garden under a rose-tree. And while we 
    were speaking with them, the angels said unto them, 'Let them alone, that 
    they may refresh themselves; and if you have any dissensions between you, 
    forgive one another.' And they drove them away. And they said to Optatus, 
    'Rebuke thy people, because they assemble to you as if returning from the 
    circus, and contending about factious matters.' And then it seemed to us as 
    if they would shut the doors. And in that place we began to recognise many 
    brethren, and moreover martyrs. We were all 
    nourished with an indescribable odour, which satisfied us. Then, I joyously 
    awoke." 
    CHAPTER VSECUNDULUS DIES IN THE PRISON. 
    FELICITAS IS PREGNANT, BUT WITH MANY PRAYERS SHE BRINGS FORTH IN THE EIGHTH 
    MONTH WITHOUT SUFFERING, THE COURAGE OF PERPETUA AND OF SATURUS 
    UNBROKEN.
1. The above were the more eminent visions of the blessed martyrs Saturus 
    and Perpetua themselves, which they themselves committed to writing. But God 
    called Secundulus, while he has yet in the prison, by an earlier exit from 
    the world, not without favour, so as to give a respite to the beasts. 
    Nevertheless, even if his soul did not acknowledge cause for thankfulness, 
    assuredly his flesh did. 
    2. But respecting Felicitas (for to her also the Lord's favour approached 
    in the same way), when she had already gone eight months with child (for she 
    had been pregnant when she was apprehended), as the day of the exhibition 
    was drawing near, she was in great grief lest on account of her pregnancy 
    she should be delayed — because pregnant women are not allowed to be 
    publicly punished — and lest she should shed her sacred and guiltless blood 
    among some who had been wicked subsequently. Moreover, also, her 
    fellow-martyrs were painfully saddened lest they should leave so excellent a 
    friend, and as it were companion, alone in the path of the same hope. 
    Therefore, joining together their united cry, they poured forth their prayer 
    to the Lord three days before the exhibition. Immediately after their prayer 
    her pains came upon her, and when, with the difficulty natural to an eight 
    months' delivery, in the labour of bringing forth she was sorrowing, some 
    one of the servants of the Cataractarii said to her, "You who are in such 
    suffering now, what will you do when you are thrown to the beasts, which you 
    despised when you refused to sacrifice?" And she replied, "Now it is I that 
    suffer what I suffer; but then there will be another in me, who will suffer 
    for me, because I also am about to suffer for Him." Thus she brought forth a 
    little girl, which a certain sister brought up as her daughter. 
    3. Since then the Holy Spirit permitted, 
    and by permitting willed, that the proceedings of that exhibition should be 
    committed to writing, although we are unworthy to complete the description 
    of so great a glory; yet we obey as it were the command of the most blessed 
    Perpetua, nay her sacred trust, and add one more testimony concerning her 
    constancy and her loftiness of mind. While they were treated with more 
    severity by the tribune, because, from the intimations of certain deceitful 
    men, he feared lest thay should be withdrawn from the prison by some sort of 
    magic incantations, Perpetua answered to his face, and said, "Why do you not 
    at least permit us to be refreshed, being as we are objectionable to the 
    most noble Caesar, and having to fight on his birthday? Or is it not your 
    glory if we are brought forward fatter on that occasion?" The tribune 
    shuddered and blushed, and commanded that they should be kept with more 
    humanity, so that permission was given to their brethren and others to go in 
    and be refreshed with them; even the keeper of the prison trusting them now 
    himself. 
    4. Moreover, on the day before, when in that last meal, which they call 
    the free meal, they were partaking as far as they could, not of a free 
    supper, but of an 
    agape; with the same 
    firmness they were uttering such words as these to the people, denouncing 
    against them the judgment of the Lord, bearing witness to the felicity of 
    their passion, laughing at the curiosity of the people who came together; 
    while Saturus said, "Tomorrow is not enough for you, for you to behold with 
    pleasure that which you hate. Friends today, enemies tomorrow. Yet note our 
    faces diligently, that you may recognise them on that day of judgment." Thus 
    all departed thence astonished, and from these things many believed. 
    CHAPTER VIFROM THE PRISON THEY ARE LED 
    FORTH WITH JOY INTO THE AMPHITHEATRE, ESPECIALLY PERPETUA AND FELICITAS. ALL 
    REFUSE TO PUT ON PROFANE GARMENTS. THEY ARE SCOURGED, THEY ARE THROWN TO THE 
    WILD BEASTS. SATURUS TWICE IS UNHURT. PERPETUA AND FELICITAS ARE THROWN 
    DOWN; THEY ARE CALLED BACK TO THE SANAVIVARIAN GATE. SATURUS WOUNDED BY A 
    LEOPARD, EXHORTS THE SOLDIER. THEY KISS ONE ANOTHER, AND ARE SLAIN WITH THE 
    SWORD.
1. The day of their victory shone forth, and they proceeded from the 
    prison into the amphitheatre, as if to an assembly, joyous and of brilliant 
    countenances; if prechance shrinking, it was with joy, and not with fear. 
    Perpetua followed with placid look, and with step and gait as a matron of 
    Christ, beloved of God; casting down the luster of her eyes from the gaze of 
    all. Moreover, Felicitas, rejoicing that she had safely brought forth, so 
    that she might fight with the wild beasts; from the blood and from the 
    midwife to the gladiator, to wash after childbirth with a second baptism. 
    And when they were brought to the gate, and were constrained to put on the 
    clothing — the men, that of the priests of Saturn, and the women, that of 
    those who were consecrated to Ceres — that noble-minded woman resisted even 
    to the end with constancy. For she said, "We have come thus far of our own 
    accord, for this reason, that our liberty might not be restrained. For this 
    reason we have yielded our minds, that we might not do any such thing as 
    this: we have agreed on this with you." Injustice acknowledged the justice; 
    the tribune yielded to their being brought as simply as they were. Perpetua 
    sang psalms, already treading under foot the head of the Egyptian; 
    Revocatus, and Saturninus, and Saturus uttered threatenings against the 
    gazing people about this martyrdom. When they 
    came within sight of Hilarianus, by gesture and nod, they began to say to 
    Hilarianus, "Thou judgest us," say they, "but God will judge thee." At this 
    the people, exasperated, demanded that they should be tormented with 
    scourges as they passed along the rank of the venatores. And they indeed 
    rejoiced that they should have incurred any one of their Lord's passions. 
    2. But He who had said, "Ask, and ye shall receive," gave to them when 
    they asked, that death which each one had wished for. For when at any time 
    they had been discoursing among themselves about their wish in respect of 
    their martyrdom, 
    Saturninus indeed had professed that he wished that he might be thrown to 
    all the beasts; doubtless that he might wear a more glorious crown. 
    Therefore in the beginning of the exhibition he and Revocatus made trial of 
    the leopard, and moreover upon the scaffold they were harassed by the bear. 
    Saturus, however, held nothing in greater abomination than a bear; but he 
    imagined that he would be put an end to with one bite of a leopard. 
    Therefore, when a wild boar was supplied, it was the huntsman rather who had 
    supplied that boar who was gored by that same beast, and died the day after 
    the shows. Saturus only was drawn out; and when he had been bound on the 
    floor near to a bear, the bear would not come forth from his den. And so 
    Saturus for the second time is recalled unhurt. 
    3. Moreover, for the young women the  
    devil prepared a very 
    fierce cow, provided especially for that purpose contrary to custom, 
    rivalling their sex also in that of the beasts. And so, stripped and clothed 
    with nets, they were led forth. The populace shuddered as they saw one young 
    woman of delicate frame, and another with breasts still dropping from her 
    recent childbirth. So, being recalled, they are unbound. Perpetua is first 
    led in. She was tossed, and fell on her loins; and when she saw her tunic 
    torn from her side, she drew it over her as a veil for her middle, rather 
    mindful of her modesty than her suffering. Then she was called for again, 
    and bound up her dishevelled hair; for it was not becoming for a  
    martyr to suffer with 
    dishevelled hair, lest she should appear to be mourning in her glory. So she 
    rose up; and when she saw Felicitas crushed, she approached and gave her her 
    hand, and lifted her up. And both of them stood together; and the brutality 
    of the populace being appeased, they were recalled to the Sanavivarian gate. 
    Then Perpetua was received by a certain one who was still a  
    catechumen, Rusticus 
    by name, who kept close to her; and she, as if aroused from sleep, so deeply 
    had she been in the 
    Spirit and in an ecstasy, began to look 
    round her, and to say to the amazement of all, "I cannot tell when we are to 
    be led out to that cow." And when she had heard what had already happened, 
    she did not believe it until she had perceived certain signs of injury in 
    her body and in her dress, and had recognised the catechumen. Afterwards 
    causing that catechumen and the 
    brother to approach, she addressed them, saying, "Stand fast in the faith, 
    and love one another, all of you, and be not offended at my sufferings." 
    4. The same Saturus at the other entrance exhorted the soldier Pudens, 
    saying, "Assuredly here I am, as I have promised and foretold, for up to 
    this moment I have felt no beast. And now believe with your whole heart. Lo, 
    I am going forth to that beast, and I shall be destroyed with one bite of 
    the leopard." And immediately at the conclusion of the exhibition he was 
    thrown to the leopard; and with one bite of his he was bathed with such a 
    quantity of blood, that the people shouted out to him as he was returning, 
    the testimony of his second baptism, "Saved and washed, saved and washed." 
    Manifestly he was assuredly saved who had been 
    glorified in such a spectacle. Then to the soldier Pudens he said, 
    "Farewell, and be mindful of my faith; and let not these things disturb, but 
    confirm you." And at the same time he asked for a little ring from his 
    finger, and returned it to him bathed in his wound, leaving to him an 
    inherited token and the memory of his blood. And then lifeless he is cast 
    down with the rest, to be slaughtered in the usual place. 
    And when the populace called for them into the midst, that as the sword 
    penetrated into their body they might make their eyes partners in the 
    murder, they rose up 
    of their own accord, and transferred themselves whither the people wished; 
    but they first kissed one another, that they might consummate their
    martyrdom with the 
    kiss of peace. The rest indeed, immoveable and in silence, received the 
    sword-thrust; much more Saturus, who also had first ascended the ladder, and 
    first gave up his spirit, for he also was waiting for Perpetua. But 
    Perpetua, that she might taste some pain, being pierced between the ribs, 
    cried out loudly, and she herself placed the wavering right hand of the 
    youthful gladiator to her throat. Possibly such a woman could not have been 
    slain unless she herself had willed it, because she was feared by the impure 
    spirit. 
    O most brave and blessed martyrs! O truly 
    called and chosen unto the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ! 
    whom whoever magnifies, and honours, and adores, assuredly ought to read 
    these examples for the edification of the  
    Church, not less than 
    the ancient ones, so that new virtues also may testify that one and the same 
    Holy Spirit is 
    always operating even until now, and God the Father Omnipotent, and His Son 
    Jesus Christ our 
    Lord, whose is the glory and infinite power for ever and ever. Amen. 

