
Tertullian












TERTULLIAN 
AGAINST THE VALENTINIANS.
IN WHICH THE AUTHOR GIVES A CONCISE ACCOUNT OF, TOGETHER WITH SUNDRY 
CAUSTIC ANIMADVERSIONS ON, THE VERY FANTASTIC THEOLOGY OF THE SECT. THIS 
TREATISE IS PROFESSEDLY TAKEN FROM THE WRITINGS OF JUSTIN, MILTIADES,
IRENAEUS, AND PROCULUS.
[TRANSLATED BY DR. ROBERTS.]
CHAP. I.--INTRODUCTORY. TERTULLIAN COMPARES THE HERESY TO THE OLD 
ELEUSINIAN MYSTERIES. BOTH SYSTEMS ALIKE IN PREFERRING CONCEALMENT OF ERROR AND 
SIN TO PROCLAMATION OF TRUTH AND VIRTUE.
The Valentinians, who are no doubt a very large body of heretics--comprising 
as they do so many apostates from the truth, who have a propensity for fables, 
and no discipline to deter them (therefrom) care for nothing so much as to 
obscure what they preach, if indeed they (can be said to) preach who obscure 
their doctrine. The officiousness with which they guard their doctrine is an 
officiousness which betrays their guilt. Their disgrace is proclaimed in the 
very earnestness with which they maintain their religious system. Now, in the 
case of those Eleusinian mysteries, which are the very heresy of Athenian 
superstition, it is their secrecy that is their disgrace. Accordingly, they 
previously beset all access to their body with tormenting conditions; and they 
require a long initiation before they enrol (their members), even instruction 
during five years for their perfect disciples, in order that they may mould 
their opinions by this suspension of full knowledge, and apparently raise the 
dignity of their mysteries in proportion to the craving for them which they have 
previously created. Then follows the duty of silence. Carefully is that guarded, 
which is so long in finding. All the divinity, however, lies in their secret 
recesses: there are revealed at last all the aspirations of the fully initiated, 
the entire mystery of the sealed tongue, the symbol of virility. But this 
allegorical representation, under the pretext of nature's reverend name, 
obscures a real sacrilege by help of an arbitrary symbol, and by empty images 
obviates the reproach of falsehood! In like manner, the heretics who are now the 
object of our remarks, the Valentinians, have formed Eleusinian dissipations of 
their own, consecrated by a profound silence, having nothing of the heavenly in 
them but their mystery. By the help of the sacred names and titles and arguments 
of true religion, they have fabricated the vainest and foulest figment for men's 
pliant liking, out of the affluent suggestions of Holy Scripture, since from its 
many springs many errors may well emanate. If you propose to them inquiries 
sincere and honest, they answer you with stern look and contracted brow, and 
say, "The subject is profound." If you try them with subtle questions, with the 
ambiguities of their double tongue, they affirm a community of faith (with 
yourself). If you intimate to them that you understand their opinions, they 
insist on knowing nothing themselves. If you come to a close engagement with 
them they destroy your own fond hope of a victory over them by a 
self-immolation. Not even to their own disciples do they commit a secret before 
they have made sure of them. They have the knack of persuading men before 
instructing them; although truth persuades by teaching, but does not teach by 
first persuading. 
CHAP. II.--THESE HERETICS BRAND THE CHRISTIANS AS SIMPLE PERSONS. THE 
CHARGE ACCEPTED, AND SIMPLICITY EULOGIZED OUT OF THE SCRIPTURES.
For this reason we are branded by them as simple, and as being merely so, 
without being wise also; as if indeed wisdom were compelled to be wanting in 
simplicity, whereas the Lord unites them both: "Be ye therefore wise as 
serpents, and simple as doves." Now if we, on our parts, be accounted foolish 
because we are simple, does it then follow that they are not simple because they 
are wise? Most perverse, however, are they who are not simple, even as they are 
most foolish who are not wise. And yet, (if I must choose) I should prefer 
taking the latter condition for the lesser fault; since it is perhaps better to 
have a wisdom which falls short in quantity, than that which is bad in 
quality--better to be in error than to mislead. Besides, the face of the Lord is 
patiently waited for by those who "seek Him in simplicity of heart," as says the 
very Wisdom--not of Valentinus, but--of Solomon. Then, again, infants have borne 
by their blood a testimony to Christ. (Would you say) that it was children who 
shouted "Crucify Him"? They were neither children nor infants; in other words, 
they were not simple. The apostle, too, bids us to "become children again" 
towards God, " to be as children in malice" by our simplicity, yet as being also 
"wise in our practical faculties." At the same time, with respect to the order 
of development in Wisdom, I have admitted that it flows from simplicity. In 
brief, "the dove" has usually served to figure Christ; "the serpent," to tempt 
Him. The one even from the first has been the harbinger of divine peace; the 
other from the beginning has been the despoiler of the divine image. 
Accordingly, simplicity alone will be more easily able to know and to declare 
God, whereas wisdom alone will rather do Him violence, and betray Him. 
CHAP. III.--THE FOLLY OF THIS HERESY. IT DISSECTS AND MUTILATES THE 
DEITY.
CONTRASTED WITH THE SIMPLE WISDOM OF TRUE RELIGION. TO EXPOSE THE 
ABSURDITIES
OF THE VALENTINIAN SYSTEM IS TO DESTROY IT.
Let, then, the serpent hide himself as much as he is able, and let him wrest 
all his wisdom in the labyrinths of his obscurities; let him dwell deep down in 
the ground; let him worm himself into secret holes; let him unroll his length 
through his sinuous joints; let him tortuously crawl, though not all at once, 
beast as he is that skulks the light. Of our dove, however, how simple is the 
very home!--always in high and open places, and facing the light! As the symbol 
of the Holy Spirit, it loves the (radiant) East, that figure of Christ. Nothing 
causes truth a blush, except only being hidden, because no man will be ashamed 
to give ear thereto. No man will be ashamed to recognise Him as God whom nature 
has already commended to him, whom he already perceives in all His works,--Him 
indeed who is simply, for this reason, imperfectly known; because man has not 
thought of Him as only one, because he has named Him in a plurality (of gods), 
and adored Him in other forms. Yet, to induce oneself to turn from this 
multitude of deities to another crowd, to remove from a familiar authority to an 
unknown one, to wrench oneself from what is manifest to what is hidden, is to 
offend faith on the very threshold. Now, even suppose that you are initiated 
into the entire fable, will it not occur to you that you have heard something 
very like it from your fond nurse when you were a baby, amongst 
the lullabies she sang to you about the towers of Lamia, and the horns of the 
sun? Let, however, any man approach the subject from a knowledge of the faith 
which he has otherwise learned, as soon as he finds so many names of Æons, so 
many marriages, so many offsprings, so many exits, so many issues, felicities 
and infelicities of a dispersed and mutilated Deity, will that man hesitate at 
once to pronounce that these are "the fables and endless genealogies" which the 
inspired apostle by anticipation condemned, whilst these seeds of heresy were 
even then shooting forth? Deservedly, therefore, must they be regarded as 
wanting in simplicity, and as merely prudent, who produce such fables not 
without difficulty, and defend them only indirectly, who at the same time do not 
thoroughly instruct those whom they teach. This, of course, shows their 
astuteness, if their lessons are disgraceful; their unkindness, if they are 
honourable. As for us, however, who are the simple folk, we know all about it. 
In short, this is the very first weapon with which we are armed for our 
encounter; it unmasks and brings to views the whole of their depraved system. 
And in this we have the first augury of our victory; because even merely to 
point out that which is concealed with so great an outlay of artifice, is to 
destroy it. 
CHAP. IV.--THE HERESY TRACEABLE TO VALENTINUS, AN ABLE BUT RESTLESS MAN. 
MANY SCHISMATICAL LEADERS OF THE SCHOOL MENTIONED. ONLY ONE OF THEM SHOWS 
RESPECT TO THE MAN WHOSE NAME DESIGNATES THE ENTIRE SCHOOL.
We know, I say, most fully their actual origin, and we are quite aware why we 
call them Valentinians, although they affect to disavow their name. They have 
departed, it is true, from their founder, yet is their origin by no means 
destroyed; and even if it chance to be changed, the very change bears testimony 
to the fact. Valentinus had expected to become a bishop, because he was an able 
man both in genius and eloquence. Being indignant, however, that another 
obtained the dignity by reason of a claim which confessorship had given him, he 
broke with the church of the true faith. Just like those (restless) spirits 
which, when roused by ambition, are usually inflamed with the desire of revenge, 
he applied himself with all his might to exterminate the truth; and finding the 
clue of a certain old opinion, he marked out a path for himself with the 
subtlety of a serpent. Ptolemaeus afterwards entered on the same path, by 
distinguishing the names and the numbers of the AEnons into personal substances, 
which, however, he kept apart from God. Valentinus had included these in the 
very essence of the Deity, as senses and affections of motion. Sundry bypaths 
were then struck off therefrom, by Heraclean and Secundus and the magician 
Marcus. Theotimus worked hard about "the images of the law." Valentinus, 
however, was as yet nowhere, and still the Valentinians derive their name from 
Valentinus. Axionicus at Antioch is the only man who at the present time does 
honour to the memory of Valentinus, by keeping his rules to the full. But this 
heresy is permitted to fashion itself into as many various shapes as a 
courtezan, who usually changes and adjusts her dress every day. And why not? 
When they review that spiritual seed of theirs in every man after this fashion, 
whenever they have hit upon any novelty, they forthwith call their presumption a 
revelation, their own perverse ingenuity a spiritual gift; but (they deny all) 
unity, admitting only diversity. And thus we clearly see that, setting aside 
their customary dissimulation, most of them are in a divided state, being ready 
to say (and that sincerely) of certain points of their belief, "This is not so;" 
and, "I take this in a different sense;" and, "I do not admit that." By this 
variety, indeed, innovation is stamped on the very face of their rules; besides 
which, it wears all the colourable features of ignorant conceits. 
CHAP. V.--MANY EMINENT CHRISTIAN WRITERS HAVE CAREFULLY AND FULLY REFUTED 
THE HERESY.THESE THE AUTHOR MAKES HIS OWN GUIDES.
My own path, however, lies along the original tenets of their chief teachers, 
not with the self-appointed leaders of their promiscuous followers. Nor shall we 
hear it said of us from any quarter, that we have of our own mind fashioned our 
own materials, since these have been already produced, both in respect of the 
opinions and their refutations, in carefully written volumes, by so many 
eminently 
holy and excellent men, not only those who have lived before us, but those 
also who were contemporary with the heresiarchs themselves: for instance Justin, 
philosopher and martyr; Miltiades, the sophist of the churches Irenaeus, that 
very exact inquirer into all doctrines; our own Proculus, the model of chaste 
old age and Christian eloquence. All these it would be my desire closely to 
follow in every work of faith, even as in this particular one. Now if there are 
no heresies at all but what those who refute them are supposed to have 
fabricated, then the apostle who predicted them s must have been guilty of 
falsehood. If, however, there are heresies, they can be no other than those 
which are the subject of discussion. No writer can be supposed to have so much 
time on his hands as to fabricate materials which are already in his possession. 

CHAP. VI.--ALTHOUGH WRITING IN LATIN HE PROPOSES TO RETAIN THE GREEK NAMES 
OF THE VALENTINIAN EMANATIONS OF DEITY. NOT TO DISCUSS THE HERESY BUT ONLY TO 
EXPOSE IT. THIS WITH THE RAILLERY WHICH ITS ABSURDITY MERITS.
In order then, that no one may be blinded by so many outlandish names, 
collected together, and adjusted at pleasure, and of doubtful import, I 
mean in this little work, wherein we merely undertake to propound this 
(heretical) mystery, to explain in what manner we are to use them. Now the 
rendering of some of these names from the Greek to as to produce an equally 
obvious sense of the word, is by no means an easy process: in the case of some 
others, the genders, are not suitable; while others, again, are more familiarly 
known in their Greek form. For the most part, therefore, we shall use the Greek 
names; their meanings will be seen on the margins of the pages. 
Nor will the Greek be unaccompanied with the Latin equivalents; only these 
will be marked in lines above, for the purpose of explaining the personal names, 
rendered necessary by the ambiguities of such of them as admit some different 
meaning. But although I must postpone all discussion, and be content at present 
with the mere exposition (of the heresy), still, wherever any scandalous feature 
shall seem to require a castigation, it must be attacked by all means, if only 
with a passing thrust. Let the reader regard it as the skirmish before the 
battle. It will be my drift to show how to wound rather than to inflict deep 
gashes. If in any instance mirth be excited, this will be quite as much as the 
subject deserves. There are many things which deserve refutation in such a way 
as to have no gravity expended on them. Vain and silly topics are met with 
especial fitness by laughter. Even the truth may indulge in ridicule, because it 
is jubilant; it may play with its enemies, because it is fearless. 0nly we must 
take care that its laughter be not unseemly, and so itself be laughed at; but 
wherever its mirth is decent, there it is a duty to indulge it. And so at last I 
enter on my task. 
CHAP. VII.--THE FIRST EIGHT EMANATIONS, OR AEONS, CALLED THE OGDOAD, ARE 
THE FOUNTAIN OF ALL THE OTHERS. THEIR NAMES AND DESCENT RECORDED.
Beginning with Ennius, the Roman poet, he simply spoke of "the spacious 
saloons of heaven,"--either on account of their elevated site, or because in 
Homer he had read about Jupiter banqueting therein. As for our heretics, 
however, it is marvellous what storeys upon storeys and what heights upon 
heights, they have hung up, raised and spread out as a dwelling for each several 
god of theirs. Even our Creator has had arranged for Him the saloons of Ennius 
in the fashion of private rooms? with chamber piled upon chamber, and assigned 
to each god by just as many staircases as there were heresies. The universe, in 
fact, has been turned into "rooms to let." Such storeys of the heavens you would 
imagine to be detached tenements in some happy isle of the blessed, I know not 
where. There the god even of the Valentinians has his dwelling in the attics. 
They call him indeed, as to his essence, Aiwn teleos (Perfect 
Æon), but in respect of his personality, Proarkh (Before the Beginning), 
H'Arkh (The Beginning), and sometimes Bythos (Depth), a name 
which is most unfit for one who dwells in the heights above! They describe 
him as unbegotten, immense, infinite, invisible, and eternal; as if, when they 
described him to be such as we know that he ought to be, they straightway prove 
him to be a being who may be said to have had such an existence even before all 
things else. I indeed insist upon it that he is such a being; and there is 
nothing which I detect in beings of this sort more obvious, than that they who 
are said to have been before all things--things, too, not their own--are found 
to be behind all things. Let it, however, be granted that this Bythos of theirs 
existed in the infinite ages of the past in the greatest and profoundest repose, 
in the extreme rest of a placid and, if I may use the expression, stupid 
divinity, such as Epicurus has enjoined upon us. And yet, although they would 
have him be alone, they assign to him a second person in himself and with 
himself, Ennoea (Thought), which they also call both Charis (Grace) and Sige 
(Silence). Other things, as it happened, conduced in this most agreeable repose 
to remind him of the need of by and by producing out of himself the beginning of 
all things. This he deposits in lieu of seed in the genital region, as it were, 
of the womb of his Sige. Instantaneous conception is the result: Sige becomes 
pregnant, and is delivered, of course in silence; and her offspring is Nus 
(Mind), very like his father and his equal in every respect. In short, he alone 
is capable of comprehending the measureless and incomprensible greatness of his 
father. Accordingly he is even called the Father himself, and the Beginning of 
all things, and, with great propriety, Monogenes (The Only-begotten). And yet 
not with absolute propriety, since he is not born alone. For along with him a 
female also proceeded, whose name was Veritas (Truth). But how much more 
suitably might Monogenes be called Protogenes (Firstbegotten), since he was 
begotten first! Thus Bythos and Sige, Nus. and Veritas, are alleged to be the 
first fourfold team of the Valentinian set (of gods) the parent stock and origin 
of them all. For immediately when Nus received the function of a procreation of 
his own, he too produces out of himself Sermo (the Word) and Vita (the Life). If 
this latter existed not previously, of course she existed not in Bythos. And a 
pretty absurdity would it be, if Life existed not in God! However, this 
offspring also produces fruit, having for its mission the initiation of the 
universe and the formation of the entire Pleroma: it procreates Homo (Man) and 
Ecclesia (the Church). Thus you have an Ogdoad, a double Tetra, out of the 
conjunctions of males and females--the cells (so to speak) of the primordial 
Æons, the fraternal nuptials of the Valentinion gods, the simple originals of 
heretical sanctity and majesty, a rabble--shall I say of criminals or of 
deities?--at any rate, the fountain of all ulterior fecundity. 
CHAP. VIII.--THE NAMES AND DESCENT OF OTHER AEONS; FIRST HALF A SCORE, 
THEN TWO MORE, AND ULTIMATELY A DOZEN BESIDES. THESE THIRTY CONSTITUTE THE 
PLEROMA. BUT WHY BE SO CAPRICIOUS AS TO STOP AT THIRTY?
For, behold, when the second Tetrad--Sermo and Vita, Homo and Ecclesia--had 
borne fruit to the Father's glory, having an intense desire of themselves to 
present to the Father something similar of their own, they bring other issue 
into being--conjugal of course, as the others were--by the union of the twofold 
nature. On the one hand, Sermo and Vita pour out at a birth a half-score of 
Æons; on the other hand, Homo and Ecclesia produce a couple more, so furnishing 
an equipoise to their parents, since this pair with the other ten make up just 
as many as they did themselves procreate. I now give the names of the half-score 
whom I have mentioned: Bythios (Profound) and Mixis (Mixture), Ageratos (Never 
old) and Henosis (Union), Autophyes (Essential nature) and Hedone (Pleasure), 
Acinetos (Immoveable) and Syncrasis (Commixture,) Monogenes (Only-begotten) and 
Macaria (Happiness). On the other hand, these will make up the number twelve (to 
which I have also referred): Paracletus (Comforter) and Pistis (Faith), Patricas 
(Paternal) and Elpis (Hope), Metricos (Maternal) and Agape (Love), Ainos 
(Praise) and Synesis (Intelligence), Ecclesiasticus (Son of Ecclesia) and 
Macariotes (Blessedness) Theletus (Perfect) and Sophia (Wisdom). I cannot help 
here quoting from a like example what may serve to show the import of 
these names. In the schools of Carthage there was once a certain Latin 
rhetorician, an excessively cool fellow, whose name was Phosphorus. He was 
personating a man of valour, and wound up with saying, "I come to you, excellent 
citizens, from battle, with victory for myself, with happiness for you, full of 
honour, covered with glory, the favourite of fortune, the greatest of men, 
decked with triumph." And forthwith his scholars begin to shout for the school 
of Phosphorus, feu (ah!) Are you a believer in Fortunata, and Hedone, and 
Acinetus, and Theletus? Then shout out your feu for the school of 
Ptolemy. This must be that mystery of the Pleroma, the fulness of the 
thirty-fold divinity. Let us see what special attributes belong to these 
numbers--four, and eight, and twelve. Meanwhile with the number thirty all 
fecundity ceases. The generating force and power and desire of the Æons is 
spent. As if there were not still left some strong rennet for curdling numbers. 
As if no other names were to be got out of the page's hall! For why are there 
not sets of fifty and of a hundred procreated? Why, too, are there no comrades 
and boon companions named for them? 
CHAP. IX.--OTHER CAPRICIOUS FEATURES IN ThE SYSTEM. THE AEONS UNEQUAL 
IN ATTRIBUTES. THE SUPERIORITY OF NUS; THE VAGARIES OF SOPHIA 
RESTRAINED BY HOROS. GRAND TITLES BORNE BY THIS LAST POWER.
But, further, there is an "acceptance of persons," inasmuch as Nus alone 
among them all enjoys the knowledge of the immeasurable Father, joyous and 
exulting, while they of course pine in sorrow. To be sure, Nus, so far as in him 
lay, both wished and tried to impart to the others also all that he had learnt 
about the greatness and incomprehensibility of the Father; but his mother, Sige, 
interposed--she who (you must know) imposes silence even on her own beloved 
heretics; although they affirm that this is done at the will of the Father, who 
will have all to be inflamed with a longing after himself. Thus, while they are 
tormenting themselves with these internal desires, while they are burning with 
the secret longing to know the Father, the crime is almost accomplished. For of 
the twelve Æons which Homo and Ecclesia had produced, the youngest by birth 
(never mind the solecism, since Sophia (Wisdom) is her name), unable to restrain 
herself, breaks away without the society of her husband Theletus, in quest of 
the Father and contracts that kind of sin which had indeed arisen amongst the 
others who were conversant with Nus but had flowed on to this Æon, that is, to 
Sophia; as is usual with maladies which, after arising in one part of the body, 
spread abroad their infection to some other limb. The fact is, under a pretence 
of love to the Father, she was overcome with a desire to rival Nus, who alone 
rejoiced in the knowledge of the Father. But when Sophia, straining after 
impossible aims, was disappointed of her hope, she is both overcome with 
difficulty, and racked with affection. Thus she was all but swallowed up by 
reason of the charm and toil (of her research), and dissolved into the remnant 
of his substance; nor would there have been any other alternative for her than 
perdition, if she had not by good luck fallen in with Horus (Limit). He too had 
considerable power. He is the foundation of the great 
universe, and, externally, the guardian thereof. To him they give the 
additional names of Crux (Cross), and Lytrotes (Redeemer,) and Carpistes 
(Emancipator). When Sophia was thus rescued from danger, and tardily persuaded, 
she relinquished further research after the Father, found repose, and laid aside 
all her excitement, or Enthymesis (Desire,) along with the passion which had 
come over her. 
CHAP. X.--ANOTHER ACCOUNT OF THE STRANGE ABERRATIONS OF SOPHIA, AND THE 
RESTRAINING SERVICES OF HORUS. SOPHIA WAS NOT HERSELF, AFTER ALL, EJECTED FROM 
THE PLEROMA, BUT ONLY HER ENTHYMESIS.
But some dreamers have given another account of the aberration and recovery 
of 
Sophia. After her vain endeavours, and the disappointment of her hope, she 
was, I suppose, disfigured with paleness and emaciation, and that neglect of her 
beauty which was natural to one who was deploring the denial of the Father,--an 
affliction which was no less painful than his loss. Then, in the midst of all 
this sorrow, she by herself alone, without any conjugal help, conceived and bare 
a female offspring. Does this excite your surprise? Well, even the hen has the 
power of being able to bring forth by her own energy. They say, too, that among 
vultures there are only females, which become parents alone. At any rate, she 
was another without aid from a male, and she began at last to be afraid that her 
end was even at hand. She was all in doubt about the treatment of her case, and 
took pains at self-concealment. Remedies could nowhere be found. For where, 
then, should we have tragedies and comedies, from which to borrow the process of 
exposing what has been born without connubial modesty? While the thing is in 
this evil plight, she raises her eyes, and turns them to the Father. Having, 
however, striven in vain, as her strength was failing her, she falls to praying. 
Her entire kindred also supplicates in her behalf, and especially Nus. Why not? 
What was the cause of so vast an evil? Yet not a single casualty befell Sophia 
without its effect. All her sorrows operate. Inasmuch as all that conflict of 
hers contributes to the origin of Matter. Her ignorance, her fear, her distress, 
become substances. Hereupon the Father by and by, being moved, produces in his 
own image, with a view to these circumstances the Horos whom we have mentioned 
above; (and this he does) by means of Monogenes Nus, a male-female (Æon), 
because there is this variation of statement about the Father's sex. They also 
go on to tell us that Horos is likewise called Metagogius, that is, "a conductor 
about," as well as Horothetes (Setter of Limits). By his assistance they declare 
that Sophia was checked in her illicit courses, and purified from all evils, and 
henceforth strengthened (in virtue), and restored to the conjugal state: (they 
add) that she indeed remained within the bounds of the Pleroma, but that her 
Enthymesis, with the accruing Passion, was banished by Horos, and crucified and 
cast out from the Pleroma,-- even as they say, Malum for as! (Evil, avaunt!) 
Still, that was a spiritual essence, as being the natural impulse of an Æon, 
although without form or shape, inasmuch as it had apprehended nothing, and 
therefore was pronounced to be an infirm and feminine fruit. 
CHAP. XI.--THE PROFANE ACCOUNT GIVEN OF THE ORIGIN OF CHRIST AND THE 
HOLY
GHOST STERNLY REBUKED. AN ABSURDITY RESPECTING THE ATTAINMENT OF THE 
KNOWLEDGE
OF GOD ABLY EXPOSED.
Accordingly, after the banishment of the Enthymesis, and the return of her 
mother Sophia to her husband, the (illustrious) Monogenes, the Nus, released 
indeed from all care and concern of the Father, in order that he might 
consolidate all things, and defend and at last fix the Pleroma, and so prevent 
any concussion of the kind again, once more emits a new couple (blasphemously 
named). I should suppose the coupling of two males to be a very shameful thing, 
or else the one must be a female, and so the male is discredited by the female. 
One divinity is assigned in the case of all these, to procure a complete 
adjustment among the Æons. Even from this fellowship in a common duty two 
schools actually arise, two chairs, and, to some extent, the inauguration of a 
division in the doctrine of Valentinus. It was the function of Christ to 
instruct the Æons in the nature of their conjugal relations (you see what the 
whole thing was, of course!), and how to form some guess about the unbegotten, 
and to give them the capacity of generating within themselves the knowledge of 
the Father; it being impossible to catch the idea of him, or comprehend him, or, 
in short, even to enjoy any perception of him, either by the eye or the ear, 
except through Monogenes (the Only-begotten). Well, I will even grant them what 
they allege about knowing the Father, so that they do not refuse us (the 
attainment of) the same. I would rather point out what is perverse in their 
doctrine, how they were taught that the incomprehensible part of the Father was 
the cause of their own perpetuity, whilst that which might be com 
prehended of him was the reason of their generation and formation. Now by 
these several positions the tenet, I suppose, is insinuated, that it is 
expedient for God not to be apprehended, on the very ground that the 
incomprehensibility of His character is the cause of perpetuity; whereas what in 
Him is comprehensible is productive, not of perpetuity, but rather of conditions 
which lack perpetuity-namely, nativity and formation. The Son, indeed, they made 
capable of comprehending the Father. The manner in which He is comprehended, the 
recently produced Christ fully taught them. To the Holy Spirit, however, 
belonged the special gifts, whereby they, having been all set on a complete par 
in respect of their earnestness to learn, should be enabled to offer up their 
thanksgiving, and be introduced to a true tranquillity. 
CHAP. XII.--THE STRANGE JUMBLE OF THE PLEROMA. THE FRANTIC DELIGHT 
OF THE MEMBERS THEREOF. THEIR JOINT CONTRIBUTION OF PARTS SET FORTH WITH 
HUMOROUS IRONY.
Thus they are all on the self-same footing in respect of form and knowledge, 
all of them having become what each of them severally is; none being a different 
being, because they are all what the others are. They are all turned into Nuses, 
into Homos, into Theletuses; and so in the case of the females, into Siges, into 
Zoes, into Ecclesias, into Forunatas, so that Ovid would have blotted out his 
own Metamorphoses if he had only known our larger one in the present day. 
Straightway they were reformed and thoroughly established, and being composed to 
rest from the truth, they celebrate the Father in a chorus of praise in the 
exuberance of their joy. The Father himself also revelled in the glad feeling; 
of course, because his children and grandchildren sang so well. And why should 
he not revel in absolute delight? Was not the Pleroma freed (from all danger)? 
What ship's captain fails to rejoice even with indecent frolic? Every day we 
observe the uproarious ebullitions of sailors' joys. Therefore, as sailors 
always exult over the reckoning they pay. in common, so do these Æons enjoy a 
similar pleasure, one as they now all are in form, and, as I may add, in feeling 
too. With the concurrence of even their new brethren and masters, they 
contribute into one common stock the best and most beautiful thing with which 
they are severally adorned. Vainly, as I suppose. For if they were all one by 
reason by the above-mentioned thorough equalization, there was no room for the 
process of a common reckoning, which for the most part consists of a pleasing 
variety. They all contributed the one good thing, which they all were. There 
would be, in all probability, a formal procedure in the mode or in the form of 
the very equalization in question. Accordingly, out of the donation which they 
contributed to the honour and glory of the Father, they jointly fashion the most 
beautiful constellation of the Pleroma, and its perfect fruit, Jesus. Him they 
also surname Soter (Saviour) and Christ, and Sermo (Word) after his ancestors; 
and lastly Omnia (All Things), as formed from a universally culled nosegay, like 
the jay of AEsop, the Pandora of Hesiod, the bowl of Accius, the honey-cake of 
Nestor, the miscellany of Ptolemy. How much nearer the mark, if these idle 
title-mongers had called him Pancarpian, after certain Athenian customs. By way 
of adding external honour also to their wonderful puppet, they produce for him a 
bodyguard of angels of like nature. If this be their mutual condition, it may be 
all right; if, however, they are consubstantial with Soter (for I have 
discovered how doubtfully the case is stated), where will be his eminence when 
surrounded by attendants who are co-equal with himself? 
CHAP. XIII.--FIRST PART OF THE SUBJECT, TOUCHING THE CONSTITUTION OF THE 
PLEROMA, BRIEFLY RECAPITULATED. TRANSITION' TO THE OTHER PART, WHICH IS 
LIKE A PLAY OUTSIDE THE CURTAIN.
In this series, then, is contained the first emanation of Æons, who are alike 
born, and are married, and produce offspring: there are the most dangerous 
fortunes of Sophia in her ardent longing for the Father, the most sea sonable 
help of Horos, the expiation of her 
Enthymesis and accruing Passion, the instruction of Christ and the Holy 
Spirit, their tutelar reform of the Æons, the piebald ornamentation of Sorer, 
the consubstantial retinue of the angels. All that remains, according to you, is 
the fall of the curtain and the clapping of hands. What remains in my opinion, 
however, is, that you should hear and take heed. At all events, these things are 
said to have been played out within the company of the Pleroma, the first scene 
of the tragedy. The rest of the play, however, is beyond the curtain--I mean 
outside of the Pleroma. And yet if it be such within the bosom of the Father, 
within the embrace of the guardian Horos, what must it be outside, in free 
space, where God did not exist? 
CHAP. XIV.--THE ADVENTURES OF ACHAMOTH OUTSIDE THE PLEROMA. THE MISSION OF 
CHRIST IN PURSUIT OF HER. HER LONGING FOR CHRIST. HOROS' HOSTILITY TO HER. HER 
CONTINUED SUFFERING.
For Enthymesis, or rather Achamoth--because by this inexplicable name alone 
must she be henceforth designated--when in company with the vicious Passion, her 
inseparable companion, she was expelled to places devoid of that light which is 
the substance of the Pleroma, even to the void and empty region of Epicurus, she 
becomes wretched also because of the place of her banishment. 
She is indeed without either form or feature, even an untimely and abortive 
production. Whilst she is in this plight, Christ descends from the heights, 
conducted by Horos, in order to impart form to the abortion, out of his own 
energies, the form of substance only, but not of knowledge also. Still she is 
left with some property. She has restored to her the odour of immortality, in 
order that she might, under its influence, be overcome with the desire of better 
things than belonged to her present plight. Having accomplished His merciful 
mission, not without the assistance of the Holy Spirit, Christ returns to the 
Pleroma. It is usual out of an abundance of things for names to be also 
forthcoming. Enthymesis came from action; 
whence Achamoth came is still a question; Sophia emanates from the Father, 
the Holy Spirit from an angel. She entertains a regret lot Christ immediately 
after she had discovered her desertion by him. Therefore she hurried forth 
herself, in quest of the light of Him Whom she did not at all discover, as He 
operated in an invisible manner; for how else would she make search for His 
light, which was as unknown to her as He was Himself? Try, however, she did, and 
perhaps would have found Him, had not the self-same Horos, who had met her 
mother so opportunely, fallen in with the daughter quite as unseasonably, so as 
to exclaim at her IAO! just as we hear the cry "Porro Quirites" ("Out of the 
way, Romans!"), or else Fidem Caesaris!" ("By the faith of Caesat!"), whence (as 
they will have it) the name IAO comes to be found is the Scriptures. Being thus 
hindered from proceeding further, and being unable to surmount the Cross, that 
is to say, Horos, because she had not yet practised herself in the part of 
Catullus' Laureolus, and given over, as it were, to that passion of hers in a 
manifold and complicated mesh, she began to be afflicted with every impulse 
thereof, with sorrow,--because she had not accomplished her enterprise, with 
fear,--lest she should lose her life, even as she had lost the light, with 
consternation, and then with ignorance. But not as her mother (did she suffer 
this), for she was an Æon. Hers, however, was a worse suffering, considering her 
condition; for another tide of emotion still overwhelmed her, even of conversion 
to the Christ, by Whom she had been restored to life, and had been directed to 
this very conversion. 
CHAP. XV.--STRANGE ACCOUNT OF THE ORIGIN OF MATTER, FROM THE VARIOUS 
AFFECTIONS OF ACHAMOTH. THE WATERS FROM HER TEARS; LIGHT FROM HER SMILE.
Well, now, the Pythagoreans may learn, the Stoics may know, Plato himself 
(may discover), whence Matter, which they will have to be unborn, derived both 
its origin and substance for all this pile of the world-- (a mystery) which not 
even the renowned Mercurius Trismegistus, master (as he was) of all 
physical philosophy, thought out. You have just heard of Conversion," one 
element in the "Passion" (we have so often mentioned). Out of this the whole 
life of the world, and even that of the Demiurge himself, our God, is said to 
have had its being. Again, you have heard of "sorrow" and "fear." From these all 
other created things took their beginning. For from her tears flowed the entire 
mass of waters. From this circumstance one may form an idea of the calamity 
which she encountered, so vast were the kinds of the tears wherewith she 
overflowed. She had salt tear-drops, she had bitter, and sweet, and warm, and 
cold, and bituminous, and ferruginous, and sulphurous, and even poisonous, so 
that the Nonacris exuded therefrom which killed Alexander; and the river of the 
Lyncestae flowed from the same source, which produces drunkenness; and the 
Salmacis was derived from the same source, which renders men effeminate. The 
rains of heaven Achamoth whimpered forth, and we on our part are anxiously 
employed in saving up in our cisterns the very wails and tears of another. In 
like manner, from the "consternation" and "alarm" (of which we have also heard), 
bodily elements were derived. And yet amidst so many circumstances of solitude, 
in this vast prospect of destitution, she occasionally smiled at the 
recollection of the sight of Christ, and from this smile of joy light flashed 
forth. How great was this beneficence of Providence, which induced her to smile, 
and all that we might not linger for ever in the dark! Nor need you feel 
astonished how from her joy so splendid an element could have beamed upon the 
world, when from her sadness even so necessary a provision flowed forth for man. 
O illuminating smile! O irrigating tear! And yet it might now have acted as some 
alleviation amidst the horror of her situation; for she might have shaken off 
all the obscurity thereof as often as she had a mind to smile, even not to be 
obliged to turn suppliant to those who had deserted her. 
CHAP. XVI.--ACHAMOTH PURIFIED FROM ALL IMPURITIES OF HER PASSION BY THE 
PARACLETE, ACTING THROUGH SOTER, WHO OUT OF THE ABOVE-MENTIONED IMPURITIES 
ARRANGES MATTER, SEPARATING ITS EVIL FROM THE BETTER QUALITIES.
She, too, resorts to prayers, after the manner of her mother. But Christ, Who 
now felt a dislike to quit the Pleroma, appoints the Paraclete as his deputy. To 
her, therefore, he despatches Soter, (who must be the same as Jesus, to whom the 
Father imparted the supreme power over the whole body of the Æons, by subjecting 
them all to him, so that "by him," as the apostle says, "all things were 
created" ), with a retinue and cortege of contemporary angels, and (as one may 
suppose) with the dozen fasces. Hereupon Achamoth, being quite struck with the 
pomp of his approach, immediately covered herself with a veil, moved at first 
with a dutiful feeling of veneration and modesty; but afterwards she surveys him 
calmly, and his prolific equipage. With such energies as she had derived from 
the contemplation, she meets him with the salutation, kurie kaire 
(" Hail, Lord ")! Upon this, I suppose, he receives her, confirms and conforms 
her in knowledge, as well as cleanses her from all the outrages of Passion, 
without, however, utterly severing them, with an indiscriminateness like that 
which had happened in the casualties which befell her mother. For such vices as 
had become inveterate and confirmed by practice he throws together; and when he 
had consolidated them in one mass, he fixes them in a separate body, so as to 
compose the corporeal condition of Matter, extracting out of her inherent, 
incorporeal passion such an aptitude of nature as might qualify it to attain to 
a reciprocity of bodily substances, which should emulate one another, so that a 
twofold condition of the substances might be arranged; one full of evil through 
its faults, the other susceptible of passion from conversion. This will prove to 
be Matter, which has set us in battle array against Hermogenes, and all others 
who presume to teach that God made all things out of Matter, not out of nothing. 

CHAP. XVII.--ACHAMOTH IN LOVE WITH THE ANGELS. A PROTEST AGAINST THE 
LASCIVIOUS FEATURES OF VALENTINIANISM. ACHAMOTH BECOMES THE MOTHER OF 
THREE NATURES.
Then Achamoth, delivered at length from all her evils, wonderful to tell goes 
on and 
bears fruit with greater results. For warmed with the joy of so great an 
escape from her unhappy condition, and at the same time heated with the actual 
contemplation of the angelic luminaries (one is ashamed) to use such language, 
but there is no other way of expressing one's meaning), she during the emotion 
somehow became personally inflamed with desire towards them, and at once grew 
pregnant with a spiritual conception, at the very image of which the violence of 
her joyous transport,and the delight of her prurient excitement had imbibed and 
impressed upon her. She at length gave birth to an offspring, and then there 
arose a leash of natures, from a triad of causes,--one material, arising from 
her passion; another animal, arising from her conversion; the third spiritual, 
which had its origin in her imagination. 
CHAP. XVIII.--BLASPHEMOUS OPINION CONCERNING THE ORIGIN OF THE DEMIURGE, 
SUPPOSED TO BE THE CREATOR OF THE UNIVERSE.
Having become a better proficient in practical conduct by the authority 
which, we may well suppose, accrued to her from her three children, she 
determined to impart form to each of the natures. The spiritual one however, she 
was unable to touch, inasmuch as she was herself spiritual. For a participation 
in the same nature has, to a very great extent, disqualified like and 
consubstantial beings from having superior power over one another. Therefore she 
applies herself solely to the animal nature, adducing the structions of Soter 
(for her guidance). And first of all (she does) what cannot be described and 
read, and heard of, without an intense horror at the blasphemy thereof: she 
produces this God of ours, the God of all except of the heretics, the Father and 
Creator and King of all things, which are inferior to him. For from him do they 
proceed. If, however, they proceed from him, and not rather from Achamoth, or if 
only secretly from her, without his perceiving her, he was impelled to all that 
he did, even like a puppet which is moved from the outside. In fact, it was 
owing to this very ambiguity about the personal agency in the works which were 
done, that they coined for him the mixed name of (Motherly Father), whilst his 
other appellations were distinctly assigned according to the conditions and 
positions of his works: so that they call him Father in relation to the animal 
substances to which they give the place of honour on his fight hand; whereas, in 
respect of the material substances which they banish to his left hand, they name 
him Demiurgus; whilst his title King designates his authority over both classes, 
nay over the universe. 
CHAP. XIX.--PALPABLE ABSURDITIES AND CONTRADICTIONS IN THE SYSTEM 
RESPECTING ACHAMOTH AND THE DEMIURGE.
And yet there is not any agreement between the propriety of the names and 
that of the works, from which all the names are suggested; since all of them 
ought to have borne the name of her by whom the things were done, unless after 
all it turn out that they were not made by her. For, although they say that 
Achamoth devised these forms in honour of the Æons, they yet transfer this work 
to Soter as its author, when they say that he operated through her, so far as to 
give her the very image of the invisible and unknown Father--that is, the image 
which was unknown and invisible to the Demiurge; whilst he formed this same 
Demiurge in imitation of Nus the son of Propator; and whilst the archangels, who 
were the work of the Demiurge, resembled the other Æons. Now, when I hear of 
such images of the three, I ask, do you not wish me to laugh at these pictures 
of their most extravagant painter? At the female Achamoth, a picture of the 
Father? At the Demiurge, ignorant of his mother, much more so of his father? At 
the picture of Nus, Ignorant of his father too, and the ministering angels, 
facsimiles of their lords? This is painting a mule from an ass, and sketching 
Ptolemy from Valentinus. 
CHAP. XX--THE DEMIURGE WORKS AWAY AT CREATION, AS THE DRUDGE OF HIS MOTHER 
ACHAMOTH, IN IGNORANCE ALL THE WHILE OF THE NATURE OF HIS OCCUPATION.
The Demiurge therefore, placed as he was without the limits of the Pleroma in 
the ignominious solitude of his eternal exile, rounded a new empire--this world 
(of ours)--by clear 
ing away the confusion and distinguishing the difference between the two 
substances which severally constituted it, the animal and the material. Out of 
incorporeal (elements) he constructs bodies, heavy, light, erect and stooping, 
celestial and terrene. He then completes the sevenfold stages of heaven itself, 
with his own throne above all. Whence he had the additional name of Sabbatum 
from the hebdomadal nature of his abode; his mother Achamoth, too, had the title 
Ogdoada, after the precedent of the primeval Ogdoada. These heavens, however, 
they consider to be intelligent, and sometimes they make angels of them, as 
indeed they do of the Demiurge himself; as also (they call) Paradise the fourth 
archangel, because they fix it above the third heaven, of the power of which 
Adam partook, when he sojourned there amidst its fleecy clouds and shrubs. 
Ptolemy remembered perfectly well the prattle of his boyhood, that apples grew 
in the sea, and fishes on the tree; after the same fashion, he assumed that 
nut-trees flourished in the skies. The Demiurge does his work in ignorance, and 
therefore perhaps he is unaware that trees ought to be planted only on the 
ground. His mother, of course, knew all about it: how is it, then, that she did 
not suggest the fact, since she was actually executing her own operation? But 
whilst building up so vast an edifice for her son by means of those works, which 
proclaim him at once to be father, god and, king before the conceits of the 
Valentinians, why she refused to let them be known to even him, is a question 
which I shall ask afterwards. 
CHAP. XXI.--THE VANITY AS WELL AS IGNORANCE OF THE DEMIURGE. ABSURD 
RESULTS FROM SO IMPERFECT A CONDITION.
Meanwhile you must believe that Sophia has the surnames of earth and of 
Mother--"Mother-Earth," of course--and (what may excite your laughter still more 
heartily) even Holy Spirit. In this way they have conferred all honour on that 
female, I suppose even a beard, not to say other things. Besides, the Demiurge 
had so little mastery over things, on the score, you must know, of his inability 
to approach spiritual essences, (constituted as he was) of animal elements, 
that, imagining himself to be the only being, he uttered this soliloquy: "I am 
God, and beside me there is none else." But for all that, he at least was aware 
that he had not himself existed before. He understood, therefore, that he had 
been created, and that there must be a creator of a creature of some sort or 
other. How happens it, then, that he seemed to himself to be the only being, 
notwithstanding his uncertainty, and although he had, at any rate, some 
suspicion of the existence of some creator? 
CHAP. XXII.--ORIGIN OF THE DEVIL, IN THE CRIMINAL EXCESS OF THE SORROW 
OF
ACHAMOTH. THE DEVIL, CALLED ALSO MUNDITENENS, ACTUALLY WISER THAN THE
DEMIURGE, ALTHOUGH HIS WORK.
The odium felt amongst them against the devil is the more excusable, even 
because the peculiarly sordid character of his origin justifies it. For he is 
supposed by them to have had his origin in that criminal excess of her sorrow, 
from which they also derive the birth of the angels, and demons, and all the 
wicked spirits. Yet they affirm that the devil is the work of the Demiurge, and 
they call him Munditenens (Ruler of the World), and maintain that, as he is of a 
spiritual nature, he has a better knowledge of the things above than the 
Demiurge, an animal being. He deserves from them the pre-eminence which all 
heresies provide him with. 
CHAP. XXIII.--THE RELATIVE POSITIONS OF THE PLEROMA. THE REGION OF 
ACHAMOTH, AND THE CREATION OF THE DEMIURGE. THE ADDITION OF FIRE TO THE VARIOUS 
ELEMENTS AND BODIES OF NATURE.
Their most eminent powers, moreover, they confine within the following 
limits, as in a citadel. In the most elevated of all summits presides the 
tricenary Pleroma, Horos marking off its boundary line. Beneath it, Achamoth 
occupies the intermediate space for her abode, treading down her son. For under 
her comes the Demiurge in his own Hebdomad, or rather the Devil, sojourning in 
this world in common with ourselves, formed, as has been said above, of the same 
elements 
and the same body, out of the most profitable calamities of Sophia; inasmuch 
as, (if it had not been for these,) our spirit would have had no space for 
inhaling and ejecting air--that delicate vest of all corporeal creatures, that 
revealer of all colours, that instrument of the seasons--if the sadness of 
Sophia had not filtered it, just as her fear did the animal existence, and her 
conversion the Demiurge himself. Into all these elements and bodies fire was 
fanned. Now, since they have not as yet explained to us the original sensation 
of this in Sophia, I will on my own responsibility conjecture that its spark was 
struck out of the delicate emotions of her (feverish grief). For you may be 
quite sure that, amidst all her vexations, she must have had a good deal of 
fever. 
CHAP. XXIV.--THE FORMATION OF MAN BY THE DEMIURGE. HUMAN FLESH NOT 
MADE OF THE GROUND, BUT OF A NONDESCRIPT PHILOSOPHIC SUBSTANCE.
Such being their conceits respecting: God, or, if you like, the gods, of what 
sort are their figments concerning man? For, after he had made the world, the 
Demiurge turns his hands to man, and chooses for him as his substance not any 
portion of "the dry land," as they say, of which alone we have any knowledge 
(although it was, at that time, not yet dried by the waters becoming separated 
from the earthy residuum, and only afterwards became dry), but of the invisible 
substance of that matter, which philosophy indeed dreams of, from its fluid and 
fusible composition, the origin of which I am unable to imagine, because it 
exists nowhere. Now, since fluidity and fusibility are qualities Of liquid 
matter, and since everything liquid flowed from Sophia's tears, we must, as a 
necessary conclusion, believe that muddy earth is constituted of Sophia's 
eye-rheums and viscid discharges, which are just as much the dregs of tears as 
mud is the sediment of waters. Thus does the Demiurge mould man as a potter does 
his clay, and animates him with his own breath. Made after his image and 
likeness, he will therefore be both material and animal. A fourfold being! For 
in respect of his "image," he must be deemed clayey, that is to say, material, 
although the Demiurge is not composed of matter; but as to his "likeness," he is 
animal, for such, too, is the Demiurge. You have two (of his constituent 
elements). Moreover, a coating of flesh was, as they allege, afterwards placed 
over the clayey substratum, and it is this tunic I of skin which is susceptible 
of sensation. 
CHAP. XXV.--AN EXTRAVAGANT WAY OF ACCOUNTING FOR THE COMMUNICATION OF THE 
SPIRITUAL NATURE TO MAN. IT WAS FURTIVELY MANAGED BY ACHAMOTH, THROUGH THE 
UNCONSCIOUS AGENCY OF HER SON.
In Achamoth, moreover, there was inherent a certain property of a spiritual 
germ, of her mother Sophia's substance; and Achamoth herself had carefully 
severed off (the same quality), and implanted it in her son the Demiurge, 
although he was actually unconscious of it. It is for you to imagine the 
industry of this clandestine arrangement. For to this end had she deposited and 
concealed (this germ), that, whenever the Demiurge came to impart life to Adam 
by his inbreathing, he might at the same time draw off from the vital principle 
the spiritual seed, and, as by a pipe, inject it into the clayey nature; in 
order that, being then fecundated in the material body as in a womb, and having 
fully grown there, it might be found fit for one day receiving the perfect Word. 
When, therefore, the Demiurge commits to Adam the transmission of his own vital 
principle, the spiritual man lay hid, although inserted by his breath, and at 
the same time introduced into the body, because the Demiurge knew no more about 
his mother's seed than about herself. To this seed they give the name of 
Ecclesia (the Church), the mirror of the church above, and the perfection of 
man; tracing this perfection from Achamoth, just as they do the animal nature 
from the Demiurge, the clayey material of the body (they derive) from the 
primordial substance, the flesh from Matter. So that you have a new Geryon here, 
only a fourfold (rather than a threefold) monster. 
CHAP.XXVI.--THE THREE SEVERAL NATURES--THE MATERIAL, THE ANIMAL, 
AND THE SPIRITUAL, AND THEIR SEVERAL DESTINATIONS. THE STRANGE VALENTINIAN 
OPINION ABOUT THE STRUCTURE OF SOTER'S NATURE.
In like manner they assign to each of them a separate end. To the material, 
that is to say the carnal (nature), which they also call "the left-handed," they 
assign undoubted 
destruction; to the animal (nature), which they also call "the right-handed," 
a doubtful issue, inasmuch as it oscillates between the material and the 
spiritual, and is sure to fall at last on the side to which it has mainly 
gravitated. As regards the spiritual, however, (they say) that it enters into 
the formation of the animal, in order that it may be educated in company with it 
and be disciplined by repeated intercourse with it. For the animal (nature) was 
in want of training even by the senses: for this purpose, accordingly, was the 
whole structure of the world provided; for this purpose also did Soter (the 
Saviour) present Himself in the world--even for the salvation of the animal 
(nature). By yet another arrangement they will have it that He, in some 
prodigious way, clothed Himself with the primary portions of those substances, 
the whole of which He was going. to restore to salvation; in such wise that He 
assumed the spiritual nature from Achamoth, whilst He derived the animal 
(being), Christ, afterwards from the Demiurge; His corporal substance, however, 
which was constructed of an animal nature (only with wonderful and indescribable 
skill), He wore for a dispensational purpose, in order that He might, in spite 
of His own unwillingness, be capable of meeting persons, and of being seen and 
touched by them, and even of dying. But there was nothing material assumed by 
Him, inasmuch as that was incapable of salvation. As if He could possibly have 
been more required by any others than by those who were in want of salvation! 
And all this, in order that by severing the condition of our flesh from Christ 
they may also deprive it of the hope of salvation! 
CHAP. XXVII.--THE CHRIST OF THE DEMIURGE, SENT INTO THE WORLD BY THE 
VIRGIN. NOT OF HER. HE FOUND IN HER, NOT A MOTHER, BUT ONLY A PASSAGE OR 
CHANNEL. JESUS DESCENDED UPON CHRIST, AT HIS BAPTISM, LIKE A DOVE; BUT, BEING 
INCAPABLE OF SUFFERING, HE LEFT CHRIST TO DIE ON THE CROSS ALONE.
I now adduce (what they say) concerning Christ, upon whom some of them 
engraft Jesus with so much licence, that they foist into Him a spiritual seed 
together with an animal inflatus. Indeed, I will not undertake to describe these 
incongruous crammings, which they have contrived in relation both to their men 
and their gods. Even the Demiurge has a Christ of His on--His natural Son. An 
animal, in short, produced by Himself, proclaimed by the prophets--His position 
being one which must be decided by prepositions; in other words, He was produced 
by means of a virgin, rather than of a virgin! On the ground that, having 
descended into the virgin rather in the manner of a passage through her than of 
a birth by her, He came into existence through her, not of her--not experiencing 
a mother in her, but nothing more than a way. Upon this same Christ, therefore 
(so they say.), Jesus descended in the sacrament of baptism, in the likeness of 
a dove. Moreover, there was even in Christ accruing from Achamoth the condiment 
of a spiritual seed, in order of course to prevent the corruption of all the 
other stuffing. For after the precedent of the principal Tetrad, they guard him 
with four substances--the spiritual one of Achamoth, the animal one of the 
Demiurge, the corporeal one, which cannot be described, and that of Soter, or, 
in other phrase, the columbine. As for Sorer Jesus), he remained in Christ to 
the last, impassible, incapable of injury, incapable of apprehension. By and by, 
when it came to a question of capture, he departed from him during the 
examination before Pilate. In like manner, his mother's seed did not admit of 
being injured, being equally exempt from all manner of outrage, and being 
undiscovered even by the Demiurge himself. The animal and carnal Christ, 
however, does suffer after the fashion of the superior Christ, who, for the 
purpose of producing Achamoth, had been stretched upon the cross, that is, 
Horos, in a substantial though not a cognizable form. In this manner do they 
reduce all things to mere images--Christians themselves being indeed nothing but 
imaginary beings! 
CHAP. XXVIII.--THE DEMIURGE CURED OF HIS IGNORANCE BY THE SAVIOUR'S 
ADVENT, FROM WHOM HE HEARS OF THE GREAT FUTURE IN STORE FOR HIMSELF.
Meanwhile the Demiurge, being still ignorant of everything, although he will 
actually have to make some announcement himself by the prophets, but is quite 
incapable of even this part of his duty (because they divide authority over the 
prophets between Achamoth, the Seed, and the Demiurge), no sooner 
heard of the advent of Sorer (Saviour) than he runs to him with haste and 
joy, with all his might, like the centurion in the Gospel. And being enlightened 
by him on all points, he learns from him also of his own prospect how that he is 
to succeed to his mother's place. Being thenceforth free from all care, he 
carries on the administration of this world, mainly under the plea of protecting 
the church, for as long a time as may be necessary and proper. 
CHAP. XXIX.--THE THREE NATURES AGAIN ADVERTED TO. THEY ARE ALL EXEMPLIFIED 
AMONGST MEN. FOR INSTANCE, BY CAIN, AND ABEL, AND SETH.
I will now collect from different sources, by way of conclusion, what they 
affirm concerning the dispensation of the whole human race. Having at first 
stated their views as to man's threefold nature--which was, however, united in 
one in the case of Adam--they then proceed after him to divide it (into three) 
with their especial characteristics, finding opportunity for such distinction in 
the posterity of Adam himself, in which occurs a threefold division as to moral 
differences. Cain and Abel, and Seth, who were in a certain sense the sources of 
the human race, become the fountain-heads of just as many qualities of nature 
and essential character. The material nature, which had become reprobate for 
salvation, they assign to Cain; the animal nature, which was poised between 
divergent hopes, they find in Abel; the spiritual, preordained for certain 
salvation, they store up in Seth. In this way also they make a twofold 
distinction among souls, as to their property of good and evil--according to the 
material condition derived from Cain, or the animal from Abel. Men's spiritual 
state they derive over and above the other conditions, from Seth adventitiously, 
not in the way of nature, but of grace, in such wise that Achamoth infuses it 
among superior beings like rain into good souls, that is, those who are enrolled 
in the animal class. Whereas the material class--in other words, those which are 
bad souls--they say, never receive the blessings of salvation; for that nature 
they have pronounced to be incapable of any change or reform in its natural 
condition. This grain, then, of spiritual seed is modest and very small when 
cast from her hand, but under her instruction increases and advances into full 
conviction, as we have already said; and the souls, on this very account, so 
much excelled all others, that the Demiurge, even then in his ignorance, held 
them in great esteem. For it was from their list that he had been accustomed to 
select men for kings and for priests; and these even now, if they have once 
attained to a full and complete knowledge of these foolish conceits of theirs, 
since they are already naturalized in the fraternal bond of the spiritual state, 
Will obtain a sure salvation, nay, one which is on all accounts their due. 
CHAP. XXX,--THE LAX AND DANGEROUS VIEWS OF THIS SECT RESPECTING GOOD 
WORKS, THAT THESE ARE UNNECESSARY TO THE SPIRITUAL MAN.
For this reason it is that they neither regard works as necessary for 
themselves, nor do they observe any of the calls of duty, eluding even the 
necessity of martyrdom on any pretence which may suit their pleasure. For this 
rule, (they say), is enjoined upon the animal seed, in order that the salvation, 
which we do not possess by any privilege of our state, we may work out by right 
of our conduct. Upon us, who are of an imperfect nature, is imprinted the mark 
of this (animal) seed, because we are reckoned as sprung from the loves of 
Theletus, and consequently as an abortion, just as their mother was. But woe to 
us indeed, should we in any point transgress the yoke of discipline, should we 
grow dull in the works of holiness and justice, should we desire to make our 
confession anywhere else, I know not where, and not before the powers of this 
world at the tribunals of the chief magistrates! As for them, however, they may 
prove their nobility by the dissoluteness of their life and their diligence in 
sin, since Achamoth fawns on them as her own; for she, too, found sin no 
unprofitable pursuit. Now it is held amongst them, that, for the purpose of 
honouring the celestial 
marriages, it is necessary to contemplate and celebrate the mystery always by 
cleaving to a companion, that, is to a woman; otherwise (they account any man) 
degenerate, and a bastard to the truth, who spends his life in the world without 
loving a woman or uniting himself to her. Then what is to become of the eunuchs 
whom we see amongst them? 
CHAP. XXXI.--AT THE LAST DAY GREAT CHANGES TAKE PLACE AMONGST THE AEONS AS 
WELL AS AMONG MEN. HOW ACHAMOTH AND THE DEMIURGE ARE AFFECTED THEN. IRONY ON THE 
SUBJECT.
It remains that we say something about the end of the world, and the 
dispensing of reward. As soon as Achamoth has completed the full harvest of her 
seed, and has then proceeded to gather it into her garner, or, after it has been 
taken to the mill and ground to flour, has hidden it in the kneading-trough with 
yeast until the whole be leavened, then shall the end speedily come. Then, to 
begin with, Achamoth herself removes from the middle region, from the second 
stage to the highest, since she is restored to the Pleroma: she is immediately 
received by that paragon of perfection 
Sorer, as her spouse of course, and they two afterwards consummate new 
nuptials. This must be the spouse of the Scripture, the Pleroma of espousals 
(for you might suppose that the Julian laws were interposing, since there are 
these migrations from place to place). In like manner, the Demiurge, too, will 
then change the scene of his abode from the celestial Hebdomad to the higher 
regions, to his mother's now vacant saloon--by this time knowing her, without 
however seeing her. (A happy coincidence!) For if he had caught a glance of her, 
he would have preferred never to have known her. 
CHAP. XXXII.--INDIGNANT IRONY EXPOSING THE VALENTINIAN FABLE ABOUT THE 
JUDICIAL TREATMENT OF MANKIND AT THE LAST JUDGMENT. THE IMMORALITY OF THE 
DOCTRINE.
As for the human race, its end will be to the following effect:--To all which 
bear the earthy" and material mark there accrues an entire destruction, because 
"all flesh is grass," and amongst these is the soul of moral man, except when it 
has found salvation by faith. The souls of just men, that is to say, our souls, 
will be conveyed to the Demiurge in the abodes of the middle region. We are duly 
thankful; we shall be content to be classed with our god, in whom lies our own 
origin. Into the palace of the Pleroma nothing of the animal nature is 
admitted--nothing but the spiritual swarm of Valentinus. 
There, then, the first process is the despoiling of men themselves, that is, 
men within the Pleroma. Now this despoiling consists of the putting off of the 
souls in which they appear to be clothed, which they will give back to their 
Demiurge as they had obtained them from him. They will then become wholly 
intellectual spirits--impalpable, invisible--and in this state will be 
readmitted invisibly to the Heroma--stealthily, if the case admits of the idea. 
What then? They will be dispersed amongst the angels, the attendants on Soter. 
As sons, do you suppose? Not at all. As servants, then? No, not even so. Well, 
as phantoms? Would that it were nothing more! Then in what capacity, if you are 
ashamed to tell us? In the capacity of brides. Then will they end their Sabine 
rapes with the sanction of wedlock. This will be the guerdon of the spiritual, 
this the recompense of their faith! Such fables have their use. Although but a 
Marcus or a Gaius, full-grown in this flesh of ours, with a beard and such like 
proofs (of virility,) it may be a stern husband, a father, a grandfather, a 
great-grandfather (never mind what, in fact, if only a male), you may perhaps in 
the bridal-chamber of the Pleroma--I have already said so tacitly--even become 
the parent by an angel of some Æon of high numerical rank. For the right 
celebration of these nuptials, instead of the torch and veil, I suppose that 
secret fire is then to burst forth, which, after devastating the whole existence 
of things, will itself also be reduced to nothing at last, after everything has 
been reduced to ashes; and so their fable too will be ended. But I, too, 
am no doubt a rash man, in having exposed: so great a mystery in so derisive 
a way: I ought to be afraid that Achamoth, who did not choose to make herself 
known even to her own son, would turn mad, that Theletus would be enraged, that 
Fortune would be irritated. But I am yet a liege-man of the Demiurge. I have to 
return after death to the place where there is no more giving in marriage, where 
I have to be clothed upon rather than to be despoiled,--where, even if I am 
despoiled of my sex, I am Glassed with angels--not a male angel, nor a female 
one. There will be no one to do aught against me, nor will they then find any 
male energy in me. 
CHAP. XXXIII.--THESE REMAINING CHAPTERS AN APPENDIX TO THE MAIN WORK. IN 
THIS
CHAPTER TERTULLIAN NOTICES A DIFFERENCE AMONG SUNDRY FOLLOWERS OF PTOLEMY, 
A
DISCIPLE OF VALENTINUS.
I shall now at last produce, by way of finale, after so long a story, those 
points which not to interrupt the course of it, and by the interruption distract 
the reader's attention, I have preferred reserving to this place. They have been 
variously advanced by those who have improved on the doctrines of Ptolemy. For 
there have been in his school "disciples above their master," who have 
attributed to their Bythus two wives--Cogitatio (Thought) and Voluntas (Will). 
For Cogitatio alone was not sufficient wherewith to produce any offspring, 
although from the two wives procreation was most easy to him. The former bore 
him Monogenes (Only-Begotten) and Veritas (Truth). Veritas was a female after 
the likeness of Cogitatio; Monogenes a male bearing a resemblance to Voluntas. 
For it is the strength of Voluntas which procures the masculine nature, inasmuch 
as she affords efficiency to Cogitatio. 
CHAP. XXXIV.--OTHER VARYING OPINIONS AMONG THE VALENTINIANS RESPECTING THE 
DEITY, CHARACTERISTIC RAILLERY.
Others of purer mind, mindful of the honour of the Deity, have, for the 
purpose of freeing him from the discredit of even single wedlock, preferred 
assigning no sex whatever to By-thus; and therefore very likely they talk of 
"this deity" in the neuter gender rather than "this god." Others again, on the 
other hand, speak of him as both masculine and feminine, so that the worthy 
chronicler Fenestella must not suppose that an hermaphrodite; was only to be 
found among the good people of Luna. 
CHAP. XXXV.--YET MORE DISCREPANCIES. JUST NOW THE SEX OF BYTHUS WAS AN 
OBJECT OF DISPUTE; NOW HIS RANK COMES IN QUESTION. ABSURD SUBSTITUTES FOR 
BYTHUS CRITICISED BY TERTULLIAN.
There are some who do not claim the first place for Bythus, but only a lower 
one. They put their Ogdoad in the foremost rank; itself, however, derived from a 
Tetrad, but under different names. For they put Proarche (Before the Beginning) 
first, Anennoetos (Inconceivable) second, Arrhetos (Indescribable) third, 
Aoratos (Invisible) fourth. Then after Proarche they say Arche (Beginning) came 
forth and occupied the first and the fifth place; from Anennoetos came 
Acataleptos (Incomprehensible) in the second and the sixth place; from Arrhetos 
came Anonomastos (Nameless) in the third and the seventh place; from Aoratos 
came Agennetos (Unbegotten) in the fourth and the eight place. Now by what 
method he arranges this, that each of these Æons should be born in two places, 
and that, too, at such intervals, I prefer to be ignorant of than to be 
informed. For what can be right in a system which is propounded with such absurd 
particulars? 
CHAP. XXXVI.--LESS REPREHENSIBLE THEORIES IN THE HERESY. BAD IS THE 
BEST OF VALENTINIANISM.
How much more sensible are they who, rejecting all this tiresome nonsense, 
have refused to believe that any one Æon has descended from another by steps 
like these, @which are really neither more nor less Gemonian; but that on a 
given signal the eight-fold emanation, of which we have heard, issued all at 
once from the Father and His Ennoea (Thought?--that it is, in fact, from His 
mere motion that they gain their designations. When, as they say, He thought of 
producing offspring, He on that account gained the name of FATHER. After 
producing, because the issue which He produced was true, He received the name of 
Truth. When He wanted Himself to be manifested, He on that account was announced 
as Man. Those, moreover, whom He preconceived in His thought when He produced 
them, were then designated the Church. As man, He uttered 
His Word; and so this Ward is His first-begotten Son, and to the Word was 
added Life. And by this process the first Ogdoad was completed. However, the 
whole of this tiresome story is utterly poor and weak. 
CHAP. XXXVII.--OTHER TURGID AND RIDICULOUS THEORIES ABOUT THE ORIGIN OF 
THE AEONS AND CREATION, STATED AND CONDEMNED.
Now listen to some other buffooneries of a master who is a great swell among 
them, and who has pronounced his dict with an even priestly authority. They run 
thus: There comes, says he, before all things Proarche, the inconceivable, and 
indescribable, and nameless, which I for my own part call Monotes (Solitude). 
With this was associated another power, to which also I give the name of Henotes 
(Unity). Now, inasmuch as Monotes and Henotes--that is to say, Solitude and 
Union--were only one being, they produced, and yet not in the way of production, 
the intellectual, innascible, invisible beginning of all things, which human 
language' has called Monad (Solitude). This has inherent in itself a 
consubstantial force, which it calls Unity? These powers, accordingly, Solitude 
or Solitariness, and Unity, or Union, propagated all the other emanations of 
Æons. Wonderful distinction, to be sure! Whatever change Union and Unity may 
undergo, Solitariness and Solitude is profoundly supreme. Whatever designation 
you give the power, it is one and the same. 
CHAP. XXXVIII.--DIVERSITY IN THE OPINIONS OF SECUNDUS, AS COMPARED WITH 
THE GENERAL DOCTRINE OF VALENTINUS.
Secundus is a trifle more human, as he is briefer: he divides the Ogdoad into 
a pair of Tetrads, a right hand one and a left hand one, one light and the other 
darkness. Only he is unwilling to derive the power which apostatized and fell 
away from any one of the Æons, but from the fruits which issued from their 
substance. 
CHAP. XXXIX.--THEIR DIVERSITY OF SENTIMENT AFFECTS THE VERY CENTRAL 
DOCTRINE OF CHRISTIANITY, EVEN THE PERSON AND CHARACTER OF THE LORD 
JESUS. THIS DIVERSITY VITIATES EVERY GNOSTIC SCHOOL.
Now, concerning even the Lord Jesus, into how great a diversity of opinion 
are they divided! One party form Him of the blossoms of all the Æons. 
Another party will have it that He is made up only of those ten whom the Word 
and the Life produced;` from which circumstance the titles of the Word and the 
Life were suitably transferred to Him. @Others, again, that He rather sprang 
from the twelve, the offspring of Man and the Church and therefore, they say, He 
was designated "Son of man." Others, moreover, maintain that He was formed by 
Christ and the Holy Spirit, who have to provide for the establishment of the 
universe, and that He inherits by right His Father's appellation. Some there are 
who have imagined that another origin must be found for the title "Son of man;" 
for they have had the presumption to call the Father Himself Man, by reason of 
the profound mystery of this title: so that what can you hope for more ample 
concerning faith in that God, with whom you are now yourself on a par? Such 
conceits are constantly cropping out amongst them, from the redundance of their 
mother's seed. And so it happens that the doctrines which have grown up amongst 
the Valentinians have already extended their rank growth to the woods of the 
Gnostics. 

