
Tertullian












TERTULLIAN 
ON THE FLESH OF CHRIST. 
THIS WAS WRITTEN BY OUR AUTHOR IN CONFUTATION OF CERTAIN HERETICS 
WHO DENIED THE REALITY OF CHRIST'S FLESH, OR AT LEAST ITS IDENTITY WITH HUMAN 
FLESH--FEARING THAT, IF THEY ADMITTED THE REALITY OF CHRIST'S FLESH, THEY 
MUST ALSO ADMIT HIS RESURRECTION IN THE FLESH; AND, CONSEQUENTLY,
THE RESURRECTION OF THE HUMAN BODY AFTER DEATH.
[TRANSLATED BY DR. HOLMES.]
CHAP. I.--THE GENERAL PURPORT OF THIS WORK. THE HERETICS, MARCION, 
APELLES,
AND VALENTINUS, WISHING TO IMPUGN THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION, 
DEPRIVE
CHRIST OF ALL CAPACITY FOR SUCH A CHANGE BY DENYING HIS FLESH.
THEY who are so anxious to shake that belief in the resurrection which was 
firmly settled' before the appearance of our modern Sadducees, as even to deny 
that the expectation thereof has any relation whatever to the flesh, have great 
cause for besetting the flesh of Christ also with doubtful questions, as if it 
either had no existence at all, or possessed a nature altogether different from 
human flesh. For they cannot but be apprehensive that, if it be once determined 
that Christ' flesh was human, a presumption would immediately arise in 
opposition to them, that that flesh must by all means rise again, which has 
already risen in Christ. Therefore we shall have to guard our belief in the 
resurrection 4 from the same armoury, whence they get their weapons of 
destruction. Let us examine our Lord's bodily substance, for about His spiritual 
nature all are agreed. It is 'His flesh that is in question. Its verity and 
quality are the points in dispute. Did it ever exist? 
whence was it derived? and of what kind was it? If we succeed in 
demonstrating it, we shall lay down a law for our own resurrection. Marcion, in 
order that he might deny the flesh of Christ, denied also His nativity, or else 
he denied His flesh in order that he might deny His nativity; because, of 
course, he was afraid that His nativity and His flesh bore mutual testimony to 
each other's reality, since there is no nativity without flesh, and no flesh 
without nativity. As if indeed, under the prompting of that licence which is 
ever the same in all heresy, he too might not very well have either denied the 
nativity, although admitting the flesh,--like Apelles, who was first a disciple 
of his, and afterwards an apostate,--or, while admitting both the flesh and the 
nativity, have interpreted them in a different sense, as did Valentinus, who 
resembled Apelles both in his discipleship and desertion of Martian. At all 
events, he who represented the flesh of Christ to be imaginary was equally able 
to pass off His nativity as a phantom; so that the virgin's conception, and 
pregnancy, and child-bearing, and then the whole course of her infant too, would 
have to be regarded as putative. These facts pertaining to the nativity of 
Christ would escape the notice of the same eyes and the same senses as failed to 
grasp the full idea of His flesh. 
522 
CHAP. II.--MARCION, WHO WOULD BLOT OUT THE RECORD OF CHRIST'S NATIVITY, 
IS
REBUKED FOR SO STARTLING A HERESY.
Clearly enough is the nativity announced by Gabriel. But what has he to do 
with the Creator's angel? The conception in the virgin's womb is also set 
plainly before us. But what concern has he with the Creator's prophet, Isaiah? 
He will not brook delay, since sudden/y (without any prophetic announcement) did 
he bring down Christ from heaven. "Away," says he, "with that eternal plaguey 
taxing of Caesar, and the scanty inn, and the squalid swaddling-clothes, and the 
hard stable. We do not care a jot for that multitude of the heavenly host which 
praised their Lord at night? Let the shepherds take better care of their flock, 
and let the wise men spare their legs so long a journey; let them keep their 
gold to themselves." Let Herod, too, mend his manners, so that Jeremy may not 
glory over him. Spare also the babe from circumcision, that he may escape the 
pain thereof; nor let him be brought into the temple, lest he burden his parents 
with the expense of the offering; nor let him be handed to Simeon, lest the old 
man be saddened at the point of death. Let that old woman also hold her tongue, 
lest she should bewitch the child.'' After such a fashion as this, I suppose you 
have had, O Marcion, the hardihood of blotting out the original records (of the 
history) of Christ that His flesh may lose the proofs of its reality. But, 
prithee, on what grounds (do you do this)? Show me your authority. If you are a 
prophet, foretell us a thing; if you are an apostle, open your message in 
public; if a follower of apostles, side with apostles in thought; if you are 
only a (private) Christian, believe what has been handed down to us: if, 
however, you are nothing of all this, then (as I have the best reason to say) 
cease to live. For indeed you are already dead, since you are no Christian, 
because you do not believe that which by being believed makes men 
Christian,--nay, you are the more dead, the more you are not a Christian; having 
fallen away, after you had been one, by rejecting what you formerly believed, 
even as you yourself acknowledge in a certain letter of yours, and as your 
followers do not deny, whilst our (brethren) can prove it. Rejecting, therefore, 
what you once` believed, you have completed the act of rejection, by now no 
longer believing: the fact, however, of your having ceased. to believe has not 
made your rejection of the faith right and proper; nay, rather, by your act of 
rejection you prove that what you believed previous to the said act was of a 
different character. What you believed to be of a different character, had been 
handed down just as you believed it. Now that which had been handed down was 
true, inasmuch as it had been transmitted by those whose duty it was to hand it 
down. Therefore, when rejecting that which had been handed down, you rejected 
that which was true. You had no authority for what you did. However, we have 
already in another treatise availed ourselves more fully of these prescriptive 
rules against all heresies. Our repetition of them hereafter that large 
(treatise) is superfluous, when we ask the reason why you have formed the 
opinion that Christ was not born. 
CHAP. III.--CHRIST'S NATIVITY BOTH POSSIBLE AND BECOMING. THE HERETICAL 
OPINION OF CHRIST'S APPARENT FLESH DECEPTIVE AND DISHONOURABLE TO GOD, EVEN 
ON MARCION'S PRINCIPLES.
Since you think that this lay within the competency of your own arbitrary 
choice, you must needs have supposed that being born was either impossible for 
God, or unbecoming to Him. With God, however, nothing is impossible but what He 
does not will. Let us consider, then, whether He willed to be born (for if He 
had the will, He also had the power, and was born). I put the argument very 
briefly. If God had willed not to be born, it matters not why, He would not have 
presented Himself in the likeness of man. Now who, when he sees a man, would 
deny that he had been born? What God therefore willed not to be, He would in no 
wise have willed the seeming to be. When a thing is distasteful, the very notion 
of it is scouted; because it makes no difference whether a thing exist or 523 
do not exist, if, when it does not exist, it is yet assumed to exist. It is 
of course of the greatest importance that there should be nothing false (or 
pretended) attributed to that which really does not exist. But, say you, His own 
consciousness (of the truth of His nature) was enough for Him. If any supposed 
that He had been born, because they saw Him as a man, that was their concern. 
Yet with how much more dignity and consistency would He have sustained the human 
character on the supposition that He was truly born; for if He were not born, He 
could not have undertaken the said character without injury to that 
consciousness of His which you on your side attribute to His confidence of being 
able to sustain, although not born, the character of having been born even 
against! His own consciousness! Why, I want to know, was it of so much 
importance, that Christ should, when perfectly aware what He really was, exhibit 
Himself as being that which He was not? You cannot express any apprehension 
that,s if He had been born and truly clothed Himself with man's nature, He would 
have ceased to be God, losing what He was, while becoming what He was not. For 
God is in no danger of losing His own state and condition. But, say you, I deny 
that God was truly changed to man in such wise as to be born and endued with a 
body of flesh, on this ground, that a being who is without end is also of 
necessity incapable of change. For being changed into something else puts an end 
to the former state. Change, therefore, is not possible to a Being who cannot 
come to an end. Without doubt, the nature of things which are subject to change 
is regulated by this law, that they have no permanence in the state which is 
undergoing change in them, and that they come to an end from thus wanting 
permanence, whilst they lose that in the process of change which they previously 
were. But nothing is equal with God; His nature is different from the condition 
of all things. 
If, then, the things which differ from God, and from which God differs, lose 
what existence they had whilst they are undergoing change, wherein will consist 
the difference of the Divine Being from all other things except in His 
possessing the contrary faculty of theirs,--in other words, that God can be 
changed into all conditions, and yet continue just as He is? On any other 
supposition, He would be on the, same level with those things which, when 
changed, lose the existence they had before; whose equal, of course, He is not 
in any other respect, as He certainly is not in the changeful issues of their 
nature. You have sometimes read and believed that the Creator's angels have been 
changed into human form, and have even borne about so veritable a body, that 
Abraham even washed their feet, and Lot was rescued from the Sodomites by their 
hands; an angel, moreover, wrestled with a man so strenuously with his body, 
that the latter desired to be let loose, so tightly was he held. Has it, then, 
been permitted to angels, which are inferior to God, after they have been 
changed into human bodily form, nevertheless to remain angels? and will you 
deprive God, their superior, of this faculty, as if Christ could not continue to 
be God, after His real assumption of the nature of man? Or else, did those 
angels appear as phantoms of flesh? You will not, however, have the courage to 
say this; for if it be so held in your belief, that the Creator's angels are in 
the same condition as Christ, then Christ will belong to the same God as those 
angels do, who are like Christ in their condition. If you had not purposely 
rejected in some instances, and corrupter in others, the Scriptures which are 
opposed to your opinion, you would have been confuted in this matter by the 
Gospel of John, when it declares that the Spirit descended in the body of a 
dove, and sat upon the Lord. When the said Spirit was in this condition, He was 
as truly a dove as He was also a spirit; nor did He destroy His own proper 
substance by the assumption of an extraneous substance. But you ask what becomes 
of the dove's body, after the return of the Spirit back to heaven, and similarly 
in the case of the angels. Their withdrawal was effected in the same manner as 
their appearance had been. If you had seen how their production out of nothing 
had been effected, you would have known also the process of their return to 
nothing. If the initial step was out of sight, so was also the final one. Still 
there was solidity in their bodily substance, whatever may have been the force 
by which the body became visible.What is written cannot but have been. 
524 
CHAP. IV.--GOD'S HONOUR IN THE INCARNATION OF HIS SON VINDICATED. 
MARCION'S DISPARAGEMENT OF HUMAN FLESH INCONSISTENT AS WELL AS IMPIOUS. 
CHRIST HAS CLEANSED THE FLESH.THE FOOLISHNESS OF GOD IS MOST WISE.
Since, therefore, you do not reject the assumption of a body' as impossible 
or as hazardous to the character of God, it remains for you to repudiate and 
censure it as unworthy of Him. Come now, beginning from the nativity itself, 
declaim against the uncleanness of the generative elements within the womb, the 
filthy concretion of fluid and blood, of the growth of the flesh for nine: 
months long out of that very mire. Describe the womb as it enlarges from day to 
day,heavy, troublesome, restless even in sleep, changeful in its feelings of 
dislike and desire. Inveigh now likewise against the shame itself of a woman in 
travail which, however, ought rather to be honoured in consideration of that 
peril, or to be held sacred in respect of (the mystery of) nature. Of course you 
are horrified also at the infant, which is shed into life with the 
embarrassments which accompany it from the womb; you likewise, of course, loathe 
it even after it is washed, when it is dressed out in its swaddling-clothes, 
graced with repeated anointing, smiled on with nurse's fawns. This reverend 
course of nature, you, O Marcion, (are pleased to) spit upon; and yet, in what 
way were you born? You detest a human being at his birth; then after what 
fashion do you love anybody? Yourself, of course, you had no love of, when you 
departed from the Church and the faith of Christ. But never mind? if you are not 
on good terms with yourself, or even if you were born in a way different from 
other people. Christ, at any rate, has loved even that man who was condensed in 
his mother's womb amidst all its uncleannesses, even that man who was brought 
into life out of the said womb, even that man who was nursed amidst the nurse's 
simpers. For his sake He came down (from heaven), for his sake He preached, for 
his sake "He humbled Himself even unto death--the death of the cross." He loved, 
of course, the being whom He redeemed at so great a cost. If Christ is the 
Creator's Son, it was with justice that He loved His own (creature); if He comes 
from another god, His love was excessive, since He redeemed a being who belonged 
to another. Well, then, loving man He loved his nativity also, and his flesh as 
well. Nothing can be loved apart from that through which whatever exists has its 
existence. Either take away nativity, and then show us your man; or else 
withdraw the flesh, and then present to our view the being whom God has 
redeemed--since it is these very conditions which constitute the man whom God 
has redeemed. And are you for turning these conditions into occasions of 
blushing to the very creature whom He has redeemed, (censuring them), too, us 
unworthy of Him who certainly would not have redeemed them had He not loved 
them? Our birth He reforms from death by a second birth from heaven; our flesh 
He restores from every harassing malady; when leprous, He cleanses it of the 
stain; when blind, He rekindles its light; when palsied, He renews its strength; 
when possessed with devils, He exorcises it; when dead, He reanimates it,--then 
shall we blush to own it? If, to be sure, He had chosen to be born of a mere 
animal, and were to preach the kingdom of heaven invested with the body of a 
beast either wild or tame, your censure (I 
imagine) would have instantly met Him with this demurrer: "This is 
disgraceful for God, and 'this is unworthy of the Son of God, and simply 
foolish." For no other reason than because one thus judges. It is of course 
foolish, if we are to judge God by our own conceptions. But, Marcion, consider 
well this Scripture, if indeed you have not erased it: "God hath chosen the 
foolish things of the world, to confound the wise." Now what are those foolish 
things? Are they the conversion of men to the worship of the true God, the 
rejection of error, the whole training in righteousness, chastity, mercy, 
patience, and innocence? These things certainly are not "foolish." Inquire 
again, then, of what things he spoke, and when you imagine that you have 
discovered what they are will you find anything to be so "foolish" as believing 
in a God that has been born, and that of a virgin, and of a fleshly nature too, 
who wallowed in all the before-mentioned humiliations of nature? 
But some one may say, 525 
"These are not the foolish things; they must be other things which God has 
chosen to confound the wisdom of the world." And yet, according to the world's 
wisdom, it is more easy to believe that Jupiter became a bull or a swan, if we 
listen to Marcion, than that Christ really became a man. 
CHAP. V.--CHRIST TRULY LIVED AND DIED IN HUMAN FLESH. INCIDENTS OF HIS 
HUMAN LIFE ON EARTH, AND REFUTATION OF MARCION'S DOCETIC PARODY OF THE SAME.
There are, to be sure, other things also quite as foolish (as the birth of 
Christ), which have reference to the humiliations and sufferings of God. Or 
else, let them call a crucified God "wisdom." But Marcion will apply the knife' 
to this doctrine also,, and even with greater reason. For which Is more unworthy 
of God, which is more likely to raise a blush of shame, that God should be born, 
or that He should die? that He should bear the flesh, or the cross? be 
circumcised, or be crucified? be cradled, or be coffined? be laid in a manger, 
or in a tomb? Talk of "wisdom!" You will show more of fiat if you refuse to 
believe this also. But, after all, you will not be "wise" unless you become a 
"fool" to the world, by believing" the foolish things of God." 
Have you, then, cut away all sufferings from Christ, on the ground that, as a 
mere phantom, He was incapable of experiencing them? We have said above that He 
might possibly have undergone the unreal mockeries of an imaginary birth and 
infancy. But answer me at once, you that murder truth: Was not God really 
crucified? And, having been really crucified, did He not really die? And, having 
indeed really died, did He not really rise again? Falsely did Paul 
"determine to know nothing amongst us but Jesus and Him crucified;'' 
falsely has he impressed upon us that He was buried; falsely inculcated that 
He rose again. False, therefore, is our faith also. And all that we hope for 
from Christ will be a phantom. O thou most infamous of men, who acquittest of 
all guilt the murderers of God! For nothing did Christ suffer from them, if He 
really suffered nothing at all. Spare the whole world's one only hope, thou who 
art destroying the indispensable dishonour of our faith? Whatsoever is unworthy 
of God, is of gain to me. I am safe, if I am not ashamed--my Lord. 
"Whosoever," says He, "shall be ashamed of me, of him will I also be 
ashamed." Other matters for shame find I r none which can prove me to be 
shameless t in a good sense, and foolish in a happy one, by my own contempt of 
shame. The Son of God was crucified; I am not ashamed because men must needs be 
ashamed of it. And the Son of God died; it is by all means to be believed, 
because it is absurd. And He was buried, and rose again; the fact is certain, 
because it is impossible. But how will all this be true in Him, if He was not 
Himself true--if He really had not in Himself that which might be crucified, 
might die, might be buried, and might rise again? I mean this flesh suffused 
with blood, built up with bones, interwoven with nerves, entwined with veins, a 
flesh which knew how to be born, and how to die, human without doubt, as born of 
a human being. It will therefore be mortal in Christ, because Christ is man and 
the Son of man. Else why is Christ man and the Son of man, if he has nothing of 
man, and nothing from man? Unless it be either that man is anything else than 
flesh, or man's flesh comes from any other source than man, or Mary is anything 
else than a human being, or Marcion's man is as Marcion's god. Otherwise Christ 
could not be described as being man without flesh, nor the Son of man without 
any human parent; just as He is not God without the Spirit of God, nor the Son 
of God without having God for His father. Thus the nature of the two substances 
displayed Him as man and God,--in one respect born, in the other unborn; l in 
one respect fleshly in the other spiritual; in one sense weak in the other 
exceeding strong; in on sense dying, in the other living. This property of the 
two states--the divine and the human--is distinctly asserted with equal truth of 
both natures alike, with the same belief both in respect of the Spirit '* and of 
the flesh. The powers of the Spirit, proved Him to be God, His sufferings 
attested the flesh of man. If His powers were not without the Spirit in like 
manner, were not His sufferings without the flesh. if His flesh with .its 
sufferings was fictitious, for the same reason was the Spirit false with all its 
powers. Wherefore halve Christ with a lie? He was wholly the truth. Believe me, 
He chose 526 
rather to be born, than in any part to pretend--and that indeed to His own 
detriment--that He was bearing about a flesh hardened without bones, solid 
without muscles, bloody without blood, clothed without the tunic of skin, hungry 
without appetite, eating without teeth, speaking without a tongue, so that His 
word was a phantom to the ears through an imaginary voice. A phantom, too, it 
was of course after the resurrection, when, showing His hands and His feet for 
the disciples to examine, He said, "Behold and see that it is I myself, for a 
spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have;" without doubt, hands, and 
feet, and bones are not what a spirit possesses, but only the flesh. How do you 
interpret this statement, Marcion, you who tell us that Jesus comes only from 
the most excellent God, who is both simple and good? See how He rather cheats, 
and deceives, and juggles the eyes of all, and the senses of all, as well as 
their access to and contact with Him! You ought rather to have brought Christ 
down, not from heaven, but from some troop of mountebanks, not as God besides 
man, but simply as a man, a magician; not as the High Priest of our salvation, 
but as the conjurer in a show; not as the raiser of the dead, but as the 
misleader of the living,--except that, if He were a magician, He must have had a 
nativity! 
CHAP. VI.--THE DOCTRINE OF APELLES REFUTED, THAT CHRIST'S BODY WAS OF 
SIDEREAL
SUBSTANCE, NOT BORN. NATIVITY AND MORTALITY ARE CORRELATIVE CIRCUMSTANCES, 
AND
IN CHRIST'S CASE HIS DEATH PROVES HIS BIRTH.
But certain disciples 4 of the heretic of Pontus, compelled to be wiser than 
their teacher, concede to Christ real flesh, without effect, however, on their 
denial of His nativity. He might have had, they say, a flesh which was not at 
all born. So we have found our way "out of a frying-pan," as the proverb runs, 
"into the fire,"--from Marcion to Apelles. This man having first fallen from the 
principles of Marcion into (intercourse with) a woman, in the flesh, and 
afterwards shipwrecked himself, in the spirit, on the virgin Philumene, 
proceeded from that time to preach that the body of Christ was of solid flesh, 
but without having been born. To this angel, indeed, of Philumene, the apostle 
will reply in tones like those in which he even then predicted him, saying, 
"Although an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you than that which 
we have preached unto you, let him be accursed." To the arguments, however, 
which have been indicated just above, we have now to show our resistance. They 
allow that Christ really had a body. Whence was the material of it, if not from 
the same sort of thing as that in which He appeared? Whence came His body, if 
His body were not flesh? Whence came His flesh, if it were not born? Inasmuch as 
that which is born must undergo this nativity in order to become flesh. He 
borrowed, they say, His flesh from the stars, and from the substances of the 
higher world. And they assert it for a certain principle, that a body without 
nativity is nothing to be astonished at, because it has been submitted to angels 
to appear even amongst ourselves in the flesh without the intervention of the 
womb. We admit, of course, that such facts have been related. But then, how 
comes it to pass that a faith which holds to a different rule borrows materials 
for its own arguments from the faith which it impugns? What has it to do with 
Moses, who has rejected the God of Moses? Since the God is a different one, 
everything belonging to him must be different also. But let the heretics always 
use the Scriptures of that God whose world they also enjoy. The fact will 
certainly recoil on them as a witness to judge them, that they maintain their 
own blasphemies from examples derived from Him. But it is an easy task for the 
truth to prevail without raising any such demurrer against them. When, 
therefore, they set forth the flesh of Christ after the pattern of the angels, 
declaring it to be not born, and yet flesh for all that, I should wish them to 
compare the causes, both in Christ's case and that of the angels, wherefore they 
came in the flesh. Never did any angel descend for the purpose of being 
crucified, of tasting death, and of rising again from the dead. Now, since there 
never was such a reason for angels becoming embodied, you have the cause why 
they assumed flesh without undergoing birth. They had not come to die, therefore 
they also (came not) to be born. Christ, however, having been sent to die, had 
necessarily to be also born, that He might be capable of death; for nothing is 
in the habit of dying but that 527 
which is born. Between nativity and mortality there is a mutual contrast. The 
law which makes us die is the cause of our being born. Now, since Christ died 
owing to the condition which undergoes death, but that undergoes death which is 
also born, the consequence was--nay,it was an antecedent necessity-that He must 
have been born also, by reason of the condition which undergoes birth; because 
He had to die in obedience to that very condition which, because it begins with 
birth, ends in death. It was not fitting for Him not to be born under the 
pretence that it was fitting for Him to die. But the Lord Himself at that very 
time appeared to Abraham amongst those angels without being born, and yet in the 
flesh without doubt, in virtue of the before-mentioned diversity of cause. You, 
however, cannot admit this, since you do not receive that Christ, who was even 
then rehearsing how to converse with, and liberate, and judge the human race, in 
the habit of a flesh which as yet was not born, because it did not yet mean to 
die until both its nativity and mortality were previously (by prophecy) 
announced. Let them, then, prove to us that those angels derived their flesh 
from the stars. If they do not prove it because it is not written, neither will 
the flesh of Christ get its origin therefrom, for which they borrowed the 
precedent of the angels. It is plain that the angels bore a flesh which was not 
naturally their own; their nature being of a spiritual substance, although in 
some sense peculiar to themselves, corporeal; and yet they could be transfigured 
into human shape, and for the time be able to appear and have intercourse with 
men. Since, therefore, it has not been told us whence they obtained their flesh, 
it remains for us not to doubt in our minds that a property of angelic power is 
this, to assume to themselves bodily Shape out of no material substance. How 
much more, you say, is it (within their competence to take a body) out of some 
material substance? That is true enough. But there is no evidence of this, 
because Scripture says nothing. Then, again, how should they who are able to 
form themselves into that which by nature they are not, be unable to do this out 
of no material substance? If they become that which they are not, why cannot 
they so become out of that which is not? But that which has not existence when 
it comes into existence, is made out of nothing. This is why it is unnecessary 
either to inquire or to demonstrate what has subsequently become of their 
bodies. What came out of nothing, came to nothing. They, who were able to 
convert themselves into flesh have it in their power to convert nothing itself 
into flesh. It is a greater thing to change a nature than to make matter. But 
even if it were necessary to suppose that angels derived their flesh from some 
material substance, it is surely more credible that it was from some earthly 
matter than from any kind of celestial substances, since it was composed of so 
palpably terrene a quality that it fed on earthly ailments. Suppose that even 
now a celestial flesh had fed on earthly aliments, although it was not itself 
earthly, in the same way that earthly flesh actually fed on celestial aliments, 
although it had nothing of the celestial nature (for we read of manna having 
been food for the people: "Man," says the Psalmist, "did eat angels' bread,") 
yet this does not once infringe the separate condition of the Lord's flesh, 
because of His different destination. For One who was to be truly a man, even 
unto death, it was necessary that He should be clothed with that flesh to which 
death belongs. Now that flesh to which death belongs is preceded by birth. 
CHAP. VII.--EXPLANATION OF THE LORD'S QUESTION ABOUT HIS MOTHER AND 
HIS BRETHREN. ANSWER TO THE CAVILS OF APELLES AND MARCION, WHO SUPPORT THEIR 
DENIAL OF CHRIST'S NATIVITY BY IT.
But whenever a dispute arises about the nativity, all who reject it as 
creating a presumption in favour of the reality of Christ's flesh, wilfully deny 
that God Himself was born, on the ground that He asked, "Who is my mother, and 
who are my brethren? " Let, therefore, Apelles hear what was our answer to 
Marcion in that little work, in which we challenged his own (favourite) gospel 
to the proof, even that the material circumstances of that remark (of the 
Lord's) should be considered. First of all, nobody would have told Him that His 
mother and brethren were standing outside, if he were not certain both that He 
had a mother and brethren, and that they were the very persons whom he was then 
announcing,--who had either been known to him before, or were then and there 
discovered by him; although heretics have removed this passage from the gospel, 
because those who were admiring His doctrine said that His 528 
supposed father, Joseph the carpenter, and His mother Mary, and His brethren, 
and His sisters, were very well known to them. But it was with the view of 
tempting Him, that they had mentioned to Him a mother and brethren which He did 
not possess. The Scripture says nothing of this, although it is not in other 
instances silent when anything was done against Him by way of temptation. 
"Behold," it says, "a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted Him." And in another 
passage: "The Pharisees also came unto Him, tempting Him." Who was to prevent 
its being in this place also indicated that this was done with the view of 
tempting Him? I do not admit what you advance of your own apart from Scripture. 
Then there ought to be suggested s some occasion for the temptation. What could 
they have thought to be in Him which required temptation? The question, to be 
sure, whether He had been born or not? For if this point were denied in His 
answer, it might come out on the announcement of a temptation. And yet no 
temptation, when aiming at the discovery of the point which prompts the 
temptation by its doubtfulness, falls upon one so abruptly, as not to be 
preceded by the question which compels the temptation whilst raising the doubt. 
Now, since the nativity of Christ had never come into question, how can you 
contend that they meant by their temptation to inquire about a point on which 
they had never raised a doubt? Besides, if He had to be tempted about His birth, 
this of course was not the proper way of doing it,--by announcing those persons 
who, even on the supposition of His birth, might possibly not have been in 
existence. We have all been born, and yet all of us have not either brothers or 
mother. He might with more probability have had even a father than a mother, and 
uncles more likely than brothers. Thus is the temptation about His birth 
unsuitable, for it might have been contrived without any mention of either His 
mother or His brethren. It is clearly more credible that, being certain that He 
had both a mother and brothers, they tested His divinity rather than His 
nativity, whether, when within, He knew what was without; being tried by the 
untrue announcement of the presence of persons who were not present. But the 
artifice of a temptation might have been thwarted thus: it might have happened 
that He knew that those whom they were announcing to be "standing without," were 
in fact absent by the stress either of sickness, or of business, or a journey 
which He was at the time aware of. No one tempts (another) in a way in which he 
knows that he may have himself to bear the shame of the temptation. There being, 
then, no suitable occasion for a temptation, the announcement that His mother 
and His brethren had actually turned up recovers its naturalness. But there is 
some ground for thinking that Christ's answer denies His mother and brethren for 
the present, as even Apelles might learn. "The Lord's brethren had not yet 
believed in Him." So is it contained in the Gospel which was published before 
Marcion's time; whilst there is at the same time a want of evidence of His 
mother's adherence to Him, although the Marthas and the other Marys were in 
constant attendance on Him. In this very passage indeed, their unbelief is 
evident. Jesus was teaching the way of life, preaching the kingdom of God and 
actively engaged in healing infirmities of body and soul; but all the while, 
whilst strangers were intent on Him, His very nearest relatives were absent. By 
and by they turn up, and keep outside; but they do not go in, because, forsooth, 
they set small store on that which was doing within; nor do they even wait, as 
if they had something which they could contribute more necessary than that which 
He was so earnestly doing; but they prefer to interrupt Him, and wish to call 
Him away from His great work Now, I ask you, Apelles, or will you Marcion, 
please (to tell me), if you happened to be at a stage play, or had laid a wager 
on a foot race or a chariot race, and were called away by such a message, would 
you not have exclaimed, "What are mother and brothers to me?" And did not 
Christ, whilst preaching and manifesting God, fulfilling the law and the 
prophets, and scattering the darkness of the long preceding age, justly employ 
this same form of words, in order to strike the unbelief of those who stood 
outside, or to shake off the importunity of those who would call Him away from 
His work? If, however, He had meant to deny His own nativity, He would have 
found place, time, and means for expressing Himself very differently, and not in 
words which might be uttered by one who had both a mother and brothers. When 
denying one's parents in indignation, one does not deny their existence, 529 
but censures their faults. Besides, He gave Others the preference; and since 
He shows their title to this favour--even because they listened to the word (of 
God)--He points out in what sense He denied His mother and His brethren. For in 
whatever sense He adopted as His own those who adhered to Him, in that' did He 
deny as His those who kept aloof from Him. Christ also is wont to do to the 
utmost that which He enjoins on others. How strange, then, would it certainly 
have been, if, while he was teaching others not to esteem mother, or father, or 
brothers, as highly as the word of God, He were Himself to leave the word of God 
as soon as His mother and brethren were announced to Him! He denied His parents, 
then, in the sense in which He has taught us to deny ours--for God's work. But 
there is also another view of the case: in the abjured mother there is a figure 
of the synagogue, as well as of the Jews in the unbelieving brethren. In their 
person Israel remained outside, whilst the new disciples who kept close to 
Christ within, hearing and believing, represented the Church, which He called 
mother in a preferable sense and a worthier brotherhood, with the repudiation of 
the carnal relationship. It was in just the same sense, indeed, that He also 
replied to that exclamation (of a certain woman), not denying His mother's "womb 
and paps," but designating those as more "blessed who hear the word of God." 
CHAP. VIII.--APELLES AND HIS FOLLOWERS, DISPLEASED WITH OUR EARTHLY 
BODIES, ATTRIBUTED TO CHRIST A BODY OF A PURER SORT. HOW CHRIST WAS HEAVENLY 
EVEN IN HIS EARTHLY FLESH.
These passages alone, in which Apelles and Marcion seem to place their chief 
reliance when interpreted according to the truth of the entire uncorrupted 
gospel, ought to have been sufficient for proving the human flesh of Christ by a 
defence of His birth. But since Apelles' precious set lay a very great stress on 
the shameful condition s of the flesh, which they will have to have been 
furnished with souls tampered with by the fiery author of evil, and so unworthy 
of Christ; and because they on that account suppose that a sidereal substance is 
suitable for Him, I am bound to refute them on their own ground. They mention a 
certain angel of great renown as having created this world of ours, and as 
having, after the creation, repented of his work. This indeed we have treated of 
in a passage by itself; for we have written a little work in opposition to them, 
on the question whether one who had the spirit, and will, and power of Christ 
for such operations, could have done anything which required repentance, since 
they describe the said angel by the figure of "the lost sheep." The world, then, 
must be a wrong thing, according to the evidence of its Creator's repentance; 
for all repentance is the admission of fault, nor has it indeed any existence 
except through fault. Now, if the world is a fault, as is the body, such must be 
its parts--faulty too; so in like manner must be the heaven and its celestial 
(contents), and everything which is conceived and produced out of it. And "a 
corrupt tree must needs bring forth evil fruit." The flesh of Christ, therefore, 
if composed of celestial elements, consists of faulty materials, sinful by 
reason of its sinful origin; so that it must be a part of that substance which 
they disdain to clothe Christ with, because of its sinfulness,--in other words, 
our own. Then, as there is no difference in the point of ignominy, let them 
either devise for Christ some substance of a purer stamp, since they are 
displeased with our own, or else let them recognise this too, than which even a 
heavenly substance could not have been better. We read in so many words:"The 
first man is of the earth, earthy; the second man is the Lord from heaven." This 
passage, however, has nothing to do with any difference of substance; it only 
contrasts with the once "earthy" 
substance of the flesh of the first man, Adam, the "heavenly" substance of 
the spirit of the second man, Christ. And so entirely does the passage refer the 
celestial man to the spirit and not to the flesh, that those whom it compares to 
Him evidently become celestial--by the Spirit, of course--even in this "earthy 
flesh." Now, since Christ is heavenly even in regard to the flesh, they could 
not be compared to Him, who are not heavenly in reference to their flesh. If, 
then, they who become heavenly, as Christ also was, carry about an "earthy" 
substance of flesh, the conclusion which is affirmed by this fact is, that 
Christ Himself also was heavenly, but in an "earthy" flesh, even as they are who 
are put on a level with Him. 
530 
CHAP. IX.--CHRIST'S FLESH PERFECTLY NATURAL, LIKE OUR OWN. NONE OF THE 
SUPERNATURAL FEATURES WHICH THE HERETICS ASCRIBED TO IT DISCOVERABLE, ON A 
CAREFUL VIEW.
We have thus far gone on the principle, that nothing which is derived from 
some other thing, however different it may be from that from which it is 
derived, is so different as not to suggest the source from which it comes. No 
material substance is without the witness of its own original, however great a 
change into new properties it may have undergone. There is this very body of 
ours, the formation of which out of the dust of the ground is a truth which has 
found its way into Gentile fables; it certainly testifies its own origin from 
the two elements of earth and water,--from the former by its flesh, from the 
latter by its blood. Now, although there is a difference in the appearance of 
qualities (in other words,that which proceeds from something else is in 
development different), yet, after all, what is blood but red fluid? what is 
flesh but earth in an especial form? Consider the respective qualities,--of the 
muscles as clods; of the bones as stones; the mamillary glands as a kind of 
pebbles. Look upon the close junctions of the nerves as propagations of roots, 
and the branching courses of the veins as winding rivulets, and the down (which 
covers us) as moss, and the hair as grass, and the very treasures of marrow 
within our bones as ores, of flesh. All these marks of the earthy origin were in 
Christ; and it is they which obscured Him as the Son of God, for He was looked 
on as man, for no other reason whatever than because He existed in the corporeal 
substance of a man. Or else, show us some celestial substance in Him purloined 
from the Bear, and the Pleiades, and the Hyades. Well, then, the characteristics 
which we have enumerated are so many proofs that His was an earthy flesh, as 
ours is; but anything new or anything strange I do not discover. Indeed it was 
from His words and actions only, from His teaching and miracles solely, that 
men, though amazed, owned Christ to be man. But if there had been in Him any new 
kind of flesh miraculously obtained (from the stars), it would have been 
certainly well known.s As the case stood, however, it was actually the ordinary 
condition of His terrene flesh which made all things else about Him wonderful, 
as when they said, "Whence hath this man this wisdom and these mighty works?" 
Thus spake even they who despised His outward form. His body did not reach even 
to human beauty, to say nothing of heavenly glory. Had the prophets given us no 
information whatever concerning His ignoble appearance, His very sufferings and 
the very contumely He endured bespeak it all. The sufferings attested His human 
flesh, the contumely proved its abject condition. Would any man have dared to 
touch even with his little finger, the body of Christ, if it had been of an 
unusual nature;, or to smear His face with spitting, if it had not invited it 
(by its abjectness)? Why talk of a heavenly flesh, when you have no grounds to 
offer us for your celestial theory? Why deny it to be earthy, when you have the 
best of reasons for knowing it to be earthy? He hungered under the devil's 
temptation; He thirsted with the woman of Samaria; He wept over Lazarus; He 
trembles at death (for "the flesh," as He says, "is weak "); at last, He pours 
out His blood. These, I suppose, are celestial marks? But how, I ask, could He 
have incurred contempt and suffering in the way I have described, if there had 
beamed forth in that flesh of His aught of celestial excellence? From this, 
therefore, we have a convincing proof that in it there was nothing of heaven, 
because it must be capable of contempt and suffering. 
CHAP. X.--ANOTHER CLASS OF HERETICS REFUTED. THEY ALLEGED THAT CHRIST'S 
FLESH
WAS OF A FINER TEXTURE, ANIMALIS, COMPOSED OF SOUL.
I now turn to another class, who are equally wise in their own conceit. They 
affirm that the flesh of Christ is composed of soul, that His soul became flesh, 
so that His flesh is soul; and as His flesh is of soul, so is His soul of flesh. 
But here, again, I must have some reasons. If, in order to save the soul, Christ 
took a soul within Himself, because it could not be saved except by Him having, 
it within Himself, I see no reason why, in clothing Himself with flesh, He 
should have made that flesh one of soul, as if He could not have saved the soul 
in any other way than by making flesh of it. For while He saves our souls, which 
are not only not of flesh, but are 531 
even distinct from flesh, how much more able was He to secure salvation to 
that soul which He took Himself, when it was also not of flesh? Again, since 
they assume it as a main tenet, that Christ came forth not to deliver the flesh, 
but only our soul, how absurd it is, in the first place, that, meaning to save 
only the soul, He yet made it into just that sort of bodily substance which He 
had no intention of saving! And, secondly, if He had undertaken deliver our 
souls by means of that which He carried, He ought, in that soul which He carried 
to have carried our soul, one (that is) of the same condition as ours; and 
whatever is the condition of our soul in its secret nature, it is certainly not 
one of flesh. However, it was not our soul which He saved, if His own was of 
flesh; for ours is not of flesh. Now, if He did not save our soul on the ground, 
that it was a soul of flesh which He saved, He is nothing to us, because He has 
not saved our soul. Nor indeed did it need salvation, for it was not our soul 
really, since it was, on the supposition, a soul of flesh. But yet it is evident 
that it has been saved. Of flesh, therefore, it was not composed, and it was 
ours; for it was our soul that was saved, since that was in peril of damnation. 
We therefore now conclude that as in Christ the soul was not of flesh, so 
neither could His flesh have possibly been composed of soul. 
CHAP. XI.--THE OPPOSITE EXTRAVAGANCE EXPOSED. THAT IS CHRIST WITH A SOUL 
COMPOSED OF FLESH--CORPOREAL, THOUGH INVISIBLE. CHRIST'S SOUL, LIKE OURS, 
DISTINCT FROM FLESH, THOUGH CLOTHED IN IT.
But we meet another argument of theirs, when we raise the question why 
Christ, in assuming a flesh composed of soul, should seem to have had a soul 
that was made of flesh? For God, they say, desired to make the soul visible to 
men, by enduing it with a bodily nature, although it was before invisible; of 
its own nature, indeed, it was incapable of seeing anything, even its own self, 
by reason of the obstacle of this flesh, so that it was even a matter of doubt 
whether it was born or not. The soul, therefore (they further say), was made 
corporeal in Christ, in order that we might see it when undergoing birth, and 
death, and (what is more) resurrection. But yet, how was this possible, that by 
means of the flesh the soul should demonstrate itself to itself or to us, when 
it could not possibly be ascertained that it would offer this mode of exhibiting 
itself by the flesh, until the thing came into existence to which it was 
unknown, that is to say, the flesh? It received darkness, forsooth, in order to 
be able to shine! Now, let us first turn our attention to this point, whether it 
was requisite that the soul should exhibit itself in the manner contended for; 
and next consider whether their previous position be that the soul is wholly 
invisible (inquiring further) whether this invisibility is the result of its 
incorporeality, or whether it actually possesses some sort of body peculiar to 
itself. And yet, although they say that it is invisible, they determine it to be 
corporeal, but having somewhat that is invisible. For if it has nothing 
invisible how can it be said to be invisible? But even its existence is an 
impossibility, unless it has that which is instrumental to its existence. Since, 
however, it exists, it must needs have a something through which it exists. If 
it has this something, it must be its body. Everything which exists is r a 
bodily existence sui generis. Nothing lacks bodily existence but that which is 
non-existent. If, then, the soul has an invisible body, He who had proposed to 
make it visible would certainly have done His work better if He had made that 
part of it which was accounted invisible, visible; because then there would have 
been no untruth or weakness in the case, and neither of these flaws is suitable 
to God. (But as the case stands in the hypothesis) there is untruth, since He 
has set forth the soul as being a different thing from what it really is; and 
there is weakness, since He was unable to make it appear to be that which it is. 
No one who wishes to exhibit a man covers him with a veil or a mask. This, 
however, is precisely what has been done to the soul, if it has been clothed 
with a covering belonging to something else, by being converted into flesh. But 
even if the soul is, on their hypothesis, supposed to be incorporeal, so that 
the soul, whatever it is, should by some mysterious force of the reason be quite 
unknown, only not be a body, then in that case it were not beyond the power of 
God--indeed it would be more consistent with His plan--if He displayed the soul 
in some new sort of body, different from that which we all have in common, one 
of which we should have quite a different notion, (being spared 532 
the idea that) He had set His mind on making, without an adequate cause, a 
visible soul instead of an invisible one--a fit incentive, no doubt, for such 
questions as they start, by their maintenance of a human flesh for it. Christ, 
however, could not have appeared among men except as a man. 
Restore, therefore, to Christ, His faith; believe that He who willed to walk 
the earth as a man exhibited even a soul of a thoroughly human condition, not 
making it of flesh, but clothing it with flesh. 
CHAP. XII.--THE TRUE FUNCTIONS OF THE SOUL. CHRIST ASSUMED IT IN HIS 
PERFECT HUMAN NATURE, NOT TO REVEAL AND EXPLAIN IT, BUT TO SAVE IT. ITS 
RESURRECTION WITH THE BODY ASSURED BY CHRIST.
Well, now, let it be granted that the soul is made apparent by the flesh, on 
the assumption that it was evidently necessary that it should be made apparent 
in some way or other, that is, as being incognizable to itself and to us: there 
is still an absurd distinction in this hypothesis, which implies that we are 
ourselves separate from our soul, when all that we are is soul. Indeed, without 
the soul we are nothing; there is not even the name of a human being, only that 
of a carcase. If, then, we are ignorant of the soul, it is in fact the soul that 
is ignorant of itself. Thus the only remaining question left for us to look into 
is, whether the soul was in this matter so ignorant of itself that it became 
known in any way it could. The soul, in my opinion, is sensual. Nothing, 
therefore, pertaining to the soul is unconnected with sense, nothing pertaining 
to sense is unconnected with the soul. And if I may use the expression for the 
sake of emphasis, I would say, "Animae anima sensus est"--"Sense is the soul's 
very soul." Now, since it is the soul that imparts the faculty of perception to 
all (that have sense), and since it is itself that perceives the very senses, 
not to say properties, of them all how is it likely that it did not itself 
receive sense as its own natural constitution? Whence is it to know what is 
necessary for itself under given circumstances, from the very necessity of 
natural causes, if it knows not its own property, and what is necessary for it? 
To recognise this indeed is within the competence of every soul; it has, I mean, 
a practical knowledge of itself, without which knowledge of itself no soul could 
possibly have exercised its own functions. I suppose, too, that it is especially 
suitable that man, the only rational animal, should have been furnished with 
such a soul as would make him the rational animal, itself being pre-eminently 
rational. Now, how can that soul which makes man a rational animal be itself 
rational if it be itself ignorant of its rationality, being ignorant of its own 
very self? So far, however, is it from being ignorant, that it knows its own 
Author, its own Master, and its own condition. Before it learns anything about 
God, it names the name of God. Before it acquires any knowledge of His judgment, 
it professes to commend itself to God. There is nothing one oftener hears of 
than that there is rio hope after death; and yet what imprecations or 
deprecations does not the soul use according as the man dies after a well or ill 
spent life! These reflections are more fully pursued in a short treatise which 
we have written, "On the Testimony of the Soul." Besides, if the soul was 
ignorant of itself from the beginning, there is nothing it could have learnt of 
Christ except its own quality. It was not its own form that it learnt of Christ, 
but its salvation. For this cause did the Son of God descend and take on Him a 
soul, not that the soul might discover itself in Christ, but Christ in itself. 
For its salvation is endangered, not by its being ignorant of itself, but of the 
word of God. "The life," says He, "was manifested," not the soul. And again, "I 
am come to save the soul. He did not say, "to explain" it. We could not know, of 
course, that the soul, although an invisible essence, is born and dies, unless 
it were exhibited corporeally. We certainly were ignorant that it was to rise 
again with the flesh. This is the truth which it will be found was manifested by 
Christ. But even this He did not manifest in Himself in a different way than in 
some Lazarus, whose flesh was no more composed of soul than his soul was of 
flesh. What further knowledge, therefore, have we received of the structure of 
the soul which we were ignorant of before? What invisible part was there 
belonging to it which wanted to be made visible by the flesh? 
533 
CHAP. XIII."--CHRIST'S HUMAN NATURE. THE FLESH AND THE SOUL BOTH FULLY AND 
UN-CONFUSEDLY CONTAINED IN IT.
The soul became flesh that the soul might become visible. Well, then, did the 
flesh likewise become soul that the flesh might be manifested? If the soul is 
flesh, it is no longer soul, but flesh. If the flesh is soul, it is no longer 
flesh, but soul. Where, then, there is flesh, and where there is soul, it has 
become both one and the other. Now, if they are neither in particular, although 
they become both one and the other, it is, to say the least, very absurd, that 
we should understand the soul when we name the flesh, and when we indicate the 
soul, explain ourselves as meaning the flesh. All things will be in danger of 
being taken in a sense different from their own proper sense, and, whilst taken 
in that different sense, of losing their proper one, if they are called by a 
name which differs from their natural designation. Fidelity in names secures the 
safe appreciation of properties. 
When these properties undergo a change, they are considered to possess such 
qualities as their names indicate. Baked clay, for instance, receives the name 
of brick. It retains not the name which designated its former state, 
because it has no longer a share in that state. Therefore, also, the soul of 
Christ having become flesh, cannot be anything else than that which it has 
become nor can it be any longer that which it once was, having become indeed 
something else. And since we have just had recourse to an illustration, we will 
put it to further use. Our pitcher, then, which was formed of the clay, is one 
body, and has one name indicative, of course, of that one body; nor can the 
pitcher be also called clay, because what it once was, it is no longer. Now that 
which is no longer (what it was) is also not an inseparable property. And the 
soul is not an inseparable property. Since, therefore, it has become flesh, the 
soul is a uniform solid body; it is also a wholly incomplex being, and an 
indivisible substance. But in Christ we find the soul and the flesh expressed in 
simple un-figurative terms; that is to say, the soul is called soul, and the 
flesh, flesh; nowhere is the soul termed flesh, or the flesh, soul; and yet they 
ought to have been thus (confusedly) named if such had been their condition. The 
fact, however, is that even by Christ Himself each substance has been separately 
mentioned by itself, conformably of course, to the distinction which exists 
between the properties of both, the soul by itself, and the flesh by itself." 
"My soul," says He, "is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death;" and "the bread 
that I will give is my flesh, (which I will give) for the life of the world. 
Now, if the soul had been flesh, there would have only been in Christ the soul 
composed of flesh, or else the flesh composed of soul. Since, however, He keeps 
the species distinct, the flesh and the soul, He shows them to be two. If two, 
then they are no longer one; if not one, then the soul is not composed of flesh, 
nor the flesh of soul. For the soul-flesh, or the flesh-soul, is but one; unless 
indeed He even had some other soul apart from that which was flesh, and bare 
about another flesh besides that which was soul. But since He had but one flesh 
and one soul,--that "soul which was sorrowful, even unto death," and that flesh 
which was the "bread given for the life of the world,"--the number is unimpaired 
of two substances distinct in kind, thus excluding the unique species of the 
flesh-comprised soul. 
CHAP. XIV.--CHRIST TOOK NOT ON HIM AN ANGELIC NATURE, BUT THE HUMAN. IT 
WAS MEN, NOT ANGELS, WHOM HE CAME TO SAVE.
But Christ, they say, bare (the nature of) an angel. For what reason? The 
same which induced Him to become man? Christ, then, was actuated by the motive 
which led Him to take human nature. Man's salvation was the motive, the 
restoration of that which had perished. Man had perished; his recovery had 
become necessary. No such cause, however, existed for Christ's taking on Him the 
nature of angels. For although there is assigned to angels also perdition in 
"the fire prepared for the devil and his angels," yet a restoration is never 
promised to them. No charge about the salvation of angels did Christ ever 
receive from the Father; and that which the Father neither promised nor 
commanded, Christ could not have undertaken. For what object, therefore, did He 
bear the angelic nature, if it were not (that He might have it) as a powerful 
helper wherewithal to execute the salvation of man? 
534 
The Son of God, in sooth, was not competent alone to deliver man, whom a 
solitary and single serpent had overthrown! There is, then, no longer but one 
God, but one Saviour, if there be two to contrive salvation, and one of them in 
need of the other. But was it His object indeed to deliver man by an angel? Why, 
then, come down to do that which He was about to expedite with an angel's help? 
If by an angel's aid, why come Himself also? If He meant to do all by Himself, 
why have an angel too? He has been, it is true, called "the Angel of great 
counsel," that is, a messenger, by a term expressive of official function, not 
of nature. For He had to announce to the world the mighty purpose of the Father, 
even that which ordained the restoration of man. But He is not on this account 
to be regarded as an angel, as a Gabriel or a Michael. For the Lord of the 
Vineyard sends even His Son to the labourers require fruit, as well as His 
servants. Yet the Son will not therefore be counted as one of the servants 
because He undertook the office of a servant. I may, then, more easily say, if 
such an expression is to be hazarded, that the Son is actually an angel, that 
is, a messenger, from the Father, than that there is an angel in the Son. 
Forasmuch, however, as it has been declared concerning the Son Himself, Thou 
hast made Him a little lower than the angels" how will it appear that He put on 
the nature of angels if He was made lower than the angels, having become man, 
with flesh and soul as the Son of man? As "the Spirit of God." however, and "the 
Power of the Highest," can He be regarded as lower than the angels,--He who is 
verily God, and the Son of God? Well, but as bearing human nature, He is so far 
made inferior to the angels; but as bearing angelic nature, He to the same 
degree loses that inferiority. This opinion will be very suitable for Ebion, who 
holds Jesus to be a mere man, and nothing more than a descendant of David, and 
not also the Son of God; although He is, to be sure, in one respect more 
glorious than the prophets, inasmuch as he declares that there was an angel in 
Him, just as there was in Zechariah. Only it was never said by Christ, "And the 
angel, which spake within me, said unto me." Neither, indeed, was ever used by 
Christ that familiar phrase of all the prophets, "Thus saith the Lord." For He 
was Himself the Lord, who openly spake by His own authority, prefacing His words 
with the formula, "Verily, verily, I say unto you." What need is there of 
further argument? Hear what Isaiah says in emphatic words, "It was no angel, nor 
deputy, but the Lord Himself who saved them." 
CHAP. XV.--THE VALENTINIAN FIGMENT OF CHRIST'S FLESH BEING OF A SPIRITUAL 
NATURE, EXAMINED AND REFUTED OUT OF SCRIPTURE.
Valentinus, indeed, on the strength of his heretical system, might 
consistently devise a spiritual flesh for Christ. Any one who refused to believe 
that that flesh was human might pretend it to be anything he liked, for--as much 
as (and this remark is applicable, to all heretics), if it was not human, and 
was not born of man, I do not see of what substance Christ Himself spoke when He 
called Himself man and the Son of man, saying: "But now ye seek to kill me, a 
man that hath told you the truth;" and "The Son of man is Lord of the 
Sabbath-day." (10 For it is of Him that Isaiah writes: "A man of suffering, and 
acquainted with the bearing of weakness;" and Jeremiah: "He is a man, and who 
hath known Him?" and Daniel: "Upon the clouds (He came) as the Son of man.'' The 
Apostle Paul likewise says: "The man Christ Jesus is the one Mediator between 
God and man." Also Peter, in the Acts of the Apostles, speaks of Him as verily 
human (when he says), "Jesus Christ was a man approved of God among you." These 
passages alone ought to suffice as a prescriptive testimony in proof that Christ 
had human flesh derived from man, and not spiritual, and that His flesh was not 
composed. of soul, nor of stellar substance, and that it was not an imaginary 
flesh; (and no doubt they would be sufficient) if heretics could only divest 
themselves of all their contentious warmth and artifice. For, as I have read in 
some writer of Valentinus' wretched faction, they refuse at the outset to 
believe that a human and earthly substance was created for Christ, lest the Lord 
should be regarded as inferior to the angels, who are not formed of earthly 
flesh; whence, too, it would be 535 
necessary that, if His flesh were like ours, it should be similarly born, not 
of the Spirit, nor of God, but of the will of man. Why, moreover, should it be 
born, not of corruptible [seed], but of incorruptible? Why, again, since His 
flesh has both risen and returned to heaven, is not ours, being like His, also 
taken up at once? Or else, why does not His flesh, since it is like ours, return 
in like manner to the ground, and suffer dissolution? Such objections even the 
heathen used constantly to bandy about. Was the Son of God reduced to such a 
depth of degradation Again, if He rose again as a precedent for our hope, how is 
it that nothing like it has been thought desirable (to happen) to ourselves? 
Such views are not improper for heathens and they are fit and natural for the 
heretics too. For, indeed, what difference is there between them, except it be 
that the heathen, in not believing, do believe; while the heretics, in 
believing, do not believe? Then, again, they read: "Thou madest Him a little 
less than angels;" and they deny the lower nature of that Christ who declares 
Himself to be, "not a man, but a worm;" who also had "no form nor comeliness, 
but His form was ignoble, despised more than all men, a man in suffering, and 
acquainted with the bearing of weakness." Here they discover a human being 
mingled with a divine one and so they deny the manhood. 
They believe that He died, and maintain that a being which has died was born 
of an incorruptible substance; as if, forsooth, corruptibility were something 
else than death! But our flesh, too, ought immediately to have risen again. Wait 
a while. Christ has not yet subdued His enemies, so as to be able to triumph 
over them in company with His friends. 
CHAP. XVI.--CHRIST'S FLESH IN NATURE, THE SAME AS OURS, ONLY SINLESS. THE 
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN CARNEM PECCATI AND PECCATUM CARNIS: IT IS THE LATTER WHICH 
CHRIST ABOLISHED. THE FLESH OF THE FIRST ADAM, NO LESS THAN THAT OF THE SECOND 
ADAM, NOT RECEIVED FROM HUMAN SEED, ALTHOUGH AS ENTIRELY HUMAN AS OUR OWN, WHICH 
IS DERIVED FROM IT. 
The famous Alexander, too, instigated by his love of disputation in the true 
fashion of heretical temper, has made himself conspicuous against us; he will 
have us say that Christ put on flesh of an earthly origin, in order that He 
might in His own person abolish sinful flesh. Now, even if we did assert this as 
our opinion, we should be able to defend it in such a way as completely to avoid 
the extravagant folly which he ascribes to us in making us suppose that the very 
flesh of Christ was in Himself abolished as being sinful; because we mention our 
belief (in public), that it is sitting at the right hand of the Father in 
heaven; and we further declare that it will come again from thence in all the 
pomp of the Father's glory: it is therefore just as impossible for us to say 
that it is abolished, as it is for us to maintain that it is sinful, and so made 
void, since in it there has been no fault. We maintain, moreover, that what has 
been abolished in Christ is not carnem peccati, "sinful flesh," but peccatum 
carnis, "sin in the flesh,"--not the material thing, but its condition; not the 
substance, but its flaw; and (this we aver) on the authority of the apostle, who 
says, "He abolished sin in the flesh." Now in another sentence he says that 
Christ was "in the likeness of sinful flesh,"not, however, as if He had taken on 
Him "the likeness of the flesh," in the sense of a semblance of body instead of 
its reality; but he means us to understand likeness to the flesh which sinned, 
because the flesh of Christ, which committed no sin itself, resembled that which 
had sinned,--resembled it in its nature, but not in the corruption it received 
from Adam; whence we also affirm that there was in Christ the same flesh as that 
whose nature in man is sinful. In the flesh, therefore, we say that sin has been 
abolished, because in Christ that same flesh is maintained without sin, which in 
than was not maintained without sin. 
Now, it would not contribute to the purpose of Christ's abolishing sin in the 
flesh, if He did not abolish it in that flesh in which was the nature of sin, 
nor (would it conduce) to His glory. For 536 
surely it would have been no strange thing if He had removed the stain of sin 
in some better flesh, and one which should possess a different, even a sinless, 
nature! Then, you say, if He took our flesh, Christ's was a sinful one. Do not, 
however, fetter with mystery a sense which is quite intelligible. For in putting 
on our flesh, He made it His own; in making it His own, He made it sinless. A 
word of caution, however, must be addressed to all who refuse to believe that 
our flesh was in Christ on the ground that it came not of the seed of a human 
father, let them remember that Adam himself received this flesh of ours without 
the seed of a human father. As earth was converted into this flesh of ours 
without the seed of a human father, so also was it quite possible for the Son of 
God to take to Himself' the substance of the selfsame flesh, without a human 
father's agency. 
CHAP, XVII.--THE SIMILARITY OF CIRCUMSTANCES BETWEEN THE FIRST AND 
THE SECOND ADAM, AS TO THE DERIVATION OF THEIR FLESH. AN ANALOGY ALSO PLEASANTLY 
TRACED BETWEEN EVE AND THE VIRGIN MARY.
But, leaving Alexander with his syllogisms, which he so perversely applies in 
his discussions, as well as with the hymns of Valentinus, which, with consummate 
assurance, he interpolates as the production of some respectable author, let us 
confine our inquiry to a single point--Whether Christ received flesh from the 
virgin?--that we may thus arrive at a certain proof that His flesh was human, if 
He derived its substance from His mother's womb, although we are at once 
furnished with clear evidences of the human character of His flesh, from its 
name and description as that of a man, and from the nature of its constitution, 
and from the system of its sensations, and from its suffering of death. Now, it 
will first by necessary to show what previous reason there was for the Son of 
God's being born of a virgin. He who was going to consecrate a new order of 
birth, must Himself be born after a novel fashion, concerning which Isaiah 
foretold how that the Lord Himself would give the sign. What, then, is the sign? 
"Behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a son." Accordingly, a virgin did 
conceive and bear "Emmanuel, God with us." This is the new nativity; a man is 
born in God. And in this man God was born, taking the flesh of an ancient race, 
without the help, however, of the ancient seed, in order that He might reform it 
with a new seed, that is, in a spiritual manner, and cleanse it by the re-moral 
of all its ancient stains. But the whole of this new birth was prefigured, as 
was the case in all other instances, in ancient type, the Lord being born as man 
by a dispensation in which a virgin was the medium. The earth was still in a 
virgin state, reduced as yet by no human labour, with no seed as yet cast into 
its furrows, when, as we are told, God made man out of it into a living soul. 
As, then, the first Adam is thus introduced to us, it is a just inference that 
the second Adam likewise, as the apostle has told us, was formed by God into a 
quickening spirit out of the ground,--in other words, out of a flesh which was 
unstained as yet by any human generation. But that I may lose no opportunity of 
supporting my argument from the name of Adam, why is Christ called Adam by the 
apostle, unless it be that, as man, He was of that earthly origin? And even 
reason here maintains the same conclusion, because it was by just the contrary 
operation that God recovered His own image and likeness, of which He had been 
robbed by the devil. For it was while Eve was yet a virgin, that the ensnaring 
word had crept into her ear which was to build the edifice of death. Into a 
virgin's soul, in like manner, must be introduced that Word of God which was to 
raise the fabric of life; so that what had been reduced to ruin by this sex, 
might by the selfsame sex be recovered to salvation. As Eve had believed the 
serpent, so Mary believed the angel. The delinquency which the one occasioned by 
believing, the other by believing effaced. But (it will be said) Eve did not at 
the devil's word conceive in her womb. Well, she at all events conceived; for 
the devil's word afterwards became as seed to her that she should conceive as an 
outcast, and bring forth in sorrow. Indeed she gave birth to a fratricidal 
devil; whilst Mary, on the contrary, bare one who was one day to secure 
salvation to Israel, His own brother after the flesh, and the murderer of 
Himself. God therefore sent down into the virgin's womb His Word, as the good 
Brother, who should blot out the memory of the evil brother. Hence it was 
necessary that Christ should come forth for the salvation of man, in that 
condition of flesh into which man had entered ever since his condemnation. 
537 
CHAP. XVIII.--THE MYSTERY OF THE ASSUMPTION OF OUR PERFECT HUMAN 
NATURE BY THE SECOND PERSON OF THE BLESSED TRINITY. HE IS HERE CALLED, AS OFTEN 
ELSEWHERE, THE SPIRIT.
Now, that we may give a simpler answer, it was not fit that the Son of God 
should be born of a human father's seed, lest, if He were wholly the Son of a 
man, He should fail to be also the Son of God, and have nothing more than "a 
Solomon" or "a Jonas,"'--as Ebion thought we ought to believe concerning Him. In 
order, therefore, that He who was already the Son of God--of God the Father's 
seed, that is to say, the Spirit--might also be the Son of man, He only wanted 
to assume flesh, of the flesh of man without the seed of a man; for the seed of 
a man was unnecessary s for One who had the seed of God. As, then, before His 
birth of the virgin, He was able to have God for His Father without a human 
mother, so likewise, after He was born of the virgin, He was able to have a 
woman for His mother without a human father. He is thus man with God, in short, 
since He is man's flesh with God's Spirit--flesh (I say) without seed from man, 
Spirit with seed from God. For as much, then, as the dispensation of God's 
purpose concerning His Son required that He should be born of a virgin, why 
should He not have received of the virgin the body which He bore from the 
virgin? Because, (forsooth) it is something else which He took from God, for 
"the Word "say they, "was made flesh." Now this very statement plainly shows 
what it was that was made flesh; nor can it possibly be that anything else than 
the Word was made flesh. Now, whether it was of the flesh that the Word was made 
flesh, or whether it was so made of the (divine) seed itself, the Scripture must 
tell us. As, however, the Scripture is silent about everything except what it 
was that was made (flesh), and says nothing of that from which it was so made, 
it must be held to suggest that from something else, and not from itself, was 
the Word made flesh. And if not from itself, but from something else, from what 
can we more suitably suppose that the Word became flesh than from that flesh in 
which it submitted to the dispensation? And (we have a proof of the same 
conclusion in the fact) that the Lord Himself sententiously and distinctly 
pronounced, "that which is born of the flesh is flesh," even because it is born 
of the flesh. But if He here spoke of a human being simply, and not of Himself, 
(as you maintain) then you must deny absolutely that Christ is man, and must 
maintain that human nature was not suitable to Him. And then He adds, "That 
which is born of the Spirit is spirit," because God is a Spirit, and He was born 
of God. Now this description is certainly even more applicable to Him than it is 
to those who believe in Him. But if this passage indeed apply to Him, then why 
does not the preceding one also? For you cannot divide their relation, and adapt 
this to Him, and the previous clause to all other men, especially as you do not 
deny that Christ possesses the two substances, both of the flesh and of the 
Spirit. Besides, as He was in possession both of flesh and of Spirit, He cannot 
possibly, when speaking of the condition of the two substances which He Himself 
bears, be supposed to have determined that the Spirit indeed was His own, but 
that the flesh was not His own. Forasmuch, therefore, as He is of the Spirit He 
is God the Spirit, and is born of God; just as He is also born of the flesh of 
man, being generated in the flesh as man. 
CHAP. XIX.--CHRIST, AS TO HIS DIVINE NATURE, AS THE WORD OF GOD, BECAME 
FLESH, NOT BY CARNAL CONCEPTION, NOR BY THE WILL OF THE FLESH AND OF MAN, BUT BY 
THE WILL OF GOD. CHRIST'S DIVINE NATURE, OF ITS OWN ACCORD, DESCENDED INTO THE 
VIRGIN'S WOMB.
What, then, is the meaning of this passage, "Born's not of blood, nor of the 
will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God?" I shall make more use of 
this passage after I have confuted those who have tampered with it. They 
maintain that it was written thus (in the plural)" Who were born, not of blood, 
nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God," as if 
designating those who were before mentioned as "believing in His name," in order 
to point out the existence of that mysterious seed of the elect and spiritual 
which they appropriate to themselves. But how can this be, when all who 538 
believe in the name of the Lord are, by reason of the common principle of the 
human race, born of blood, and of the will of the flesh, and of man, as indeed 
is Valentinus himself? The expression is in the singular number, as referring to 
the Lord, "He was born of God." And very properly, because Christ is the Word of 
God, and with the Word the Spirit of God, and by the Spirit the Power of God, 
and whatsoever else appertains to God. As flesh, however, He is not of blood, 
nor of the will of the flesh, nor of man, because it was by the will of God that 
the Word was made flesh. To the flesh, indeed, and not to the Word, accrues the 
denial of the nativity which is natural to us all as men, because it was as 
flesh that He had thus to be born, and not as the Word. Now, whilst the passage 
actually denies that He was born of the will of the flesh, how is it that it did 
not also deny (that He was born) of the substance of the flesh? For it did not 
disavow the substance of the flesh when it denied His being "born of blood" but 
only the matter of the seed,' which, as all know, is the warm blood as convected 
by ebullition into the coagulum of the woman's blood. In the cheese, it is from 
the coagulation that the milky substance acquires that consistency, which is 
condensed by infusing the rennet. We thus understand that what is denied is the 
Lord's birth after sexual intercourse (as is suggested by the phrase, "the will 
of man and of the flesh"), not His nativity from a woman's womb. Why, too, is it 
insisted on with such an accumulation of emphasis that He was not born of blood, 
nor of the will of the flesh, nor (of the will) of man, if it were not that His 
flesh was such that no man could have any doubt on the point of its being born 
from sexual intercourse? Again, although denying His birth from such 
cohabitation, the passage did not deny that He was born of real flesh; it rather 
affirmed this, by the very fact that it did not deny His birth in the flesh in 
the same way that it denied His birth from sexual intercourse. Pray, tell me, 
why the Spirit of Gods descended into a woman's womb at all, if He did not do so 
for the purpose of partaking of flesh from the womb. For He could have become 
spiritual flesh without such a process,--much more simply, indeed, without the 
womb than in it. He had no reason for enclosing Himself within one, if He was to 
bear forth nothing from it. Not without reason, however, did He descend into a 
womb. Therefore He received (flesh) therefrom; else, if He received nothing 
therefrom, His descent into it would have been without a reason, especially if 
He meant to become flesh of that sort which was not derived from a womb, that is 
to say, a spiritual one. 
CHAP. XX.--CHRIST BORN OF A VIRGIN, OF HER SUBSTANCE. THE PHYSIOLOGICAL 
FACTS
OF HIS REAL AND EXACT BIRTH OF A HUMAN MOTHER, AS SUGGESTED BY CERTAIN
PASSAGES OF SCRIPTURE.
But to what shifts you resort, in your attempt to rob the syllable ex of its 
proper force as a preposition, and to substitute another for it in a sense not 
found throughout the Holy Scriptures! You say that He was born through a virgin, 
not of" a virgin, and in a womb, not of a womb, because the angel in the dream 
said to Joseph, "That which is born in her" (not of her) "is of the Holy Ghost." 
But the fact is, if he had meant "of her," he must have said "in her;" for that 
which was of her, was also in her. The angel's expression, therefore, "in her," 
has precisely the same meaning as the phrase "of her." It is, however, a 
fortunate circumstance that Matthew also, when tracing down the Lord's descent 
from Abraham to Mary, says, "Jacob begat Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was 
born Christ." But Paul, too, silences these critics when he says, "God sent 
forth His Son, made of a woman." Does he mean through a woman, or in a woman? 
Nay more, for the sake of greater emphasis, he uses the word "made" rather than 
born, although the use of the latter expression would have been simpler. But by 
saying "made," he not only confirmed the statement, "The Word was made flesh," 
but he also asserted the reality of the flesh which was made of a virgin We 
shall have also the support of the Psalms on this point,not the "Psalms" indeed 
of Valentinus the apostate, and heretic, and Platonist, but the Psalms of David, 
the most illustrious saint and well-known prophet. He sings to us of Christ, and 
through his voice Christ indeed also sang concerning Himself. Hear, then, Christ 
the Lord speaking to God the Father: "Thou art He that didst draw me out of my 
539 
mother's womb." Here is the first point. "Thou art my hope from my mother's 
breasts; upon Thee have I been cast from the womb." Here is another point. "Thou 
art my God from my mother's belly." Here is a third point. Now let us carefully 
attend to the sense of these passages. "Thou didst draw me," He says, "out of 
the womb." Now what is it which is drawn, if it be not that which adheres, that 
which is firmly fastened to anything from which it is drawn in order to be 
sundered? If He clove not to the womb, how could He have been drawn from it? If 
He who clove thereto was drawn from it, how could He have adhered to it, if it 
were not that, all the while He was in the womb, He was tied to it, as to His 
origin, by the umbilical cord, which communicated growth to Him from the matrix? 
Even when one strange matter amalgamates with another, it becomes so entirely 
incorporated with that with which it amalgamates, that when it is drawn off from 
it, it carries with it some part of the body from which it is torn, as if in 
consequence of the severance of the union and growth which the constituent 
pieces had communicated to each other. But what were His "mother's breasts" 
which He mentions? No doubt they were those which He sucked. Midwives, and 
doctors, and naturalists, can tell us, from the nature of women's breasts, 
whether they usually flow at any other time than when the womb is affected with 
pregnancy, when the veins convey therefrom the blood of the lower parts to the 
mamilla, and in the act of transference convert the secretion into the 
nutritious substance of milk. Whence it comes to pass that during the period of 
lactation the monthly issues are suspended. But if the Word was made flesh of 
Himself without any communication with a womb, no mother's womb operating upon 
Him with its usual function and support, how could the lacteal fountain have 
been conveyed (from the womb) to the breasts, since (the womb) can only effect 
the change by actual possession of the proper substance? But it could not 
possibly have had blood for transformation into milk, unless it possessed the 
causes of blood also, that is to say, the severance (by birth) of its own flesh 
from the mother's womb. Now it is easy to see what was the novelty of Christ's 
being born of a virgin. It was simply this, that (He was born) of a virgin in 
the real manner which we have indicated, in order that our regeneration might 
have virginal purity,--spiritually cleansed from all pollutions through Christ, 
who was Himself a virgin, even in the flesh, in that He was born of a virgin's 
flesh. 
CHAP. XXI.--THE WORD OF GOD DID NOT BECOME FLESH EXCEPT IN THE VIRGIN'S 
WOMB
AND OF HER SUBSTANCE. THROUGH HIS MOTHER HE IS DESCENDED FROM HER 
GREAT
ANCESTOR DAVID. HE IS DESCRIBED BOTH IN THE OLD AND IN THE NEW TESTAMENT 
AS
"THE FRUIT OF DAVID'S LOINS."
Whereas, then, they contend that the novelty (of Christ's birth) consisted in 
this, that as the Word of God became flesh without the seed of a human father, 
so there should be no flesh of the virgin mother (assisting in the transaction), 
why should not the novelty rather be confined to this, that His flesh, although 
not born of seed, should yet have proceeded from flesh? I should like to go more 
closely into this discussion. "Behold," says he, "a virgin shall conceive in the 
womb." Conceive what? I ask. The Word of God, of course, and not the seed of 
man, and in order, certainly, to bring forth a son. "For," says he, "she shall 
bring forth a son." Therefore, as the act of conception was her own, so also 
what she brought forth was her own, also, although the cause of conception was 
not. If, on the other hand, the Word became flesh of Himself, then He both 
conceived and brought forth Himself, and the prophecy is stultified. For in that 
case a virgin did not conceive, and did not bring forth; since whatever she 
brought forth from the conception of the Word, is not her own flesh. But is this 
the only statement of prophecy which will be frustrated? Will not the angel's 
announcement also be subverted, that the virgin should "conceive in her womb and 
bring forth a son?" And will not in fact every scripture which declares that 
Christ had a mother? For how could she have been His mother, unless He had been 
in her womb? But then He received nothing from her womb which could make her a 
mother in whose womb He had been. Such a name as this a strange flesh ought not 
to assume. No flesh can speak of a mother's womb but that which is itself the 
offspring of that womb; nor can any be the offspring of the said womb if it owe 
its 540 
birth solely to itself. Therefore even Elisabeth must be silent although she 
is carrying in her womb the prophetic babe, which was already conscious of his 
Lord, and is, moreover, filled with the Holy Ghost. For without reason does she 
say, "and whence is this to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me?" If 
it was not as her son, but only as a stranger that Mary carried Jesus in her 
womb, how is it she says, "Blessed is the fruit of thy womb? 
What is this fruit of the womb, which received not its germ from the womb, 
which had not its root in the womb, which belongs not to her whose is the womb, 
and which is no doubt the real fruit of the womb--even Christ? Now, since He is 
the blossom of the stem which sprouts from the root of Jesse; since, moreover, 
the root of Jesse is the family of David, and the stem of the root is Mary 
descended from David, and the blossom of the stem is Mary's son, who is called 
Jesus Christ, will not He also be the fruit? For the blossom is the fruit, 
because through the blossom and from the blossom every product advances from its 
rudimental condition to perfect fruit. What then? They, deny to the fruit its 
blossom, and to the blossom its stem, and to the stem its root; so that the root 
fails to secures for itself, by means of the stem, that special product which 
comes from the stem, even the blossom and the fruit; for every step indeed in a 
genealogy is traced from the latest up to the first, so that it is now a 
well-known fact that the flesh of Christ is inseparable, not merely from Mary, 
but also from David through Mary, and from Jesse through David. "This fruit," 
therefore, "of David's loins," that is to say, of his posterity in the flesh, 
God swears to him that "He will raise up to sit upon his throne." If "of David's 
loins," how much rather is He of Mary's loins, by virtue of whom He is in "the 
loins of David?" 
CHAP. XXII.--HOLY SCRIPTURE IN THE NEW TESTAMENT, EVEN IN ITS VERY FIRST 
VERSE, TESTIFIES TO CHRIST'S TRUE FLESH. IN VIRTUE OF WHICH HE IS INCORPORATED 
IN THE HUMAN STOCK OF DAVID, AND ABRAHAM, AND ADAM.
They may, then, obliterate the testimony of the devils which proclaimed Jesus 
the son of David; but whatever unworthiness there be in this testimony, that of 
the apostles they will never be able to efface, There is, first of all, Matthew, 
that most faithful chronicler of the Gospel, because the companion of the Lord; 
for no other reason in the world than to show us clearly the fleshly original of 
Christ, he thus begins his Gospel: "The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, 
the son of David, the son of Abraham." With a nature issuing from such fountal 
sources, and an order gradually descending to the birth of Christ, what else 
have we here described than the very flesh of Abraham and of David conveying 
itself down, step after step, to the very virgin, and at last introducing 
Christ,--nay, producing Christ Himself of the virgin? Then, again, there is 
Paul, who was at once both a disciple, and a master, and a witness of the 
selfsame Gospel; as an apostle of the same Christ, also, he affirms that Christ 
"was made of the seed of David, according to the flesh,"--which, therefore, was 
His own likewise. 
Christ's flesh, then, is of David's seed. Since He is of the seed of David in 
consequence of Mary's flesh, He is therefore of Mary's flesh because of the seed 
of David. In what way so ever you torture the statement, He is either of the 
flesh of Mary because of the seed of David, or He is of the seed of David 
because of the flesh of Mary. The whole discussion is terminated by the same 
apostle, when he declares Christ to be "the seed of Abraham." And if of Abraham, 
how much more, to be sure, of David, as a more recent progenitor! 
For, unfolding the promised blessing upon all nations in the person of 
Abraham, "And in thy seed shall all nations of the earth be blessed," he adds, 
"He saith not, And to seeds, as of many; but as of one, And to thy seed, which 
is Christ." When we read and believe these things, what sort of flesh ought we, 
and can we, acknowledge in Christ? Surely none other than Abraham's, since 
Christ is "the seed of Abraham;" none other than Jesse's, since Christ is the 
blossom of "the stem of Jesse;" none other than David's, since Christ is "the 
fruit of David's loins;" none other than Mary's, since Christ came from Mary's 
womb; and, higher still, none other than Adam's, since Christ is "the second 
Adam." The consequence, therefore, is that they must either maintain, that those 
(ancestors) had a spiritual flesh, that so there might be derived to Christ the 
same condition of substance, or else allow that the flesh of Christ was not a 
spiritual one, since it is not traced from the origin of a spiritual stock. 
541 
CHAP. XXIII.--SIMEON'S "SIGN THAT SHOULD BE CONTRADICTED," APPLIED TO THE 
HERETICAL GAINSAYING OF THE TRUE BIRTH OF CHRIST. ONE OF THE HERETICS' 
PARADOXES TURNED IN SUPPORT OF CATHOLIC TRUTH.
We acknowledge, however, that the prophetic declaration of Simeon is 
fulfilled, which he spoke over the recently-born Saviour: "Behold, this child is 
set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel, and for a sign that shall 
be spoken against." The sign (here meant) is that of the birth of Christ, 
according to Isaiah: "Therefore the Lord Himself shall give you a sign: behold, 
a virgin shall conceive and bear a son." We discover, then, what the sign is 
which is to be spoken against--the conception and the parturition of the Virgin 
Mary, concerning which these sophists say: "She a virgin and yet not a virgin 
bare, and yet did not bear;" just as if such language, if indeed it must be 
uttered, would not be more suitable even for ourselves to use! For "she bare," 
because she produced offspring of her own flesh and "yet she did not bear," 
since she produced Him not from a husband's seed; she was "a virgin," so far as 
(abstinence) from a husband went, and "yet not a virgin," as regards her bearing 
a child. There is not, however, that parity of reasoning which the heretics 
affect: in other words it does not follow that for the reason "she did not 
bear," she who was "not a virgin" was "yet a virgin," even because she became a 
mother without any fruit of her own womb. But with us there is no equivocation, 
nothing twisted into a double sense. Light is light; and darkness, darkness; yea 
is yea; and nay, nay; "whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil." She who 
bare (really) bare; and although she was a virgin when she conceived, she was a 
wife when she brought forth her son. Now, as a wife, she was under the very law 
of "opening the womb," wherein it was quite immaterial whether the birth of the 
male was by virtue of a husband's co-operation or not; it was the same sex that 
opened her womb. Indeed, hers is the womb on account of which it is written of 
others also: "Every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy to the 
Lord." For who is really holy but the Son of God? Who properly opened the womb 
but He who opened a closed one? But it is marriage which opens the womb in all 
cases. The virgin's womb, therefore, was especially opened, because it was 
especially closed. Indeed she ought rather to be called not a virgin than a 
virgin, becoming a mother at a leap, as it were, before she was a wife. And what 
must be said more on this point? Since it was in this sense that the apostle 
declared that the Son of God was born not of a virgin, but "of a woman," he in 
that statement recognised the condition of the "opened womb" which ensues in 
marriage. We read in Ezekiel of "a heifer which brought forth, and still did not 
bring forth." Now, see whether it was not in view of your own future contentions 
about the womb of Mary, that even then the Holy Ghost set His mark upon you in 
this passage; otherwise He would not, contrary to His usual simplicity of style 
(in this prophet), have uttered a sentence of such doubtful import, especially 
when Isaiah says, "She shall conceive and bear a son." 
CHAP. XXIV.--DIVINE STRICTURES ON VARIOUS HERETICS DESCRIED IN VARIOUS 
PASSAGES OF PROPHETICAL SCRIPTURE. THOSE WHO ASSAIL THE TRUE DOCTRINE OF THE ONE 
LORD JESUS CHRIST, BOTH GOD AND MAN, THUS CONDEMNED.
For when Isaiah hurls denunciation against our very heretics, especially in 
his "Woe to them that call evil good, and put darkness for light," he of course 
sets his mark upon those amongst you who preserve not in the words they employ 
the light of their true significance, (by taking care) that the soul should mean 
only that which is so called, and the flesh simply that which is confest to our 
view and God none other than the One who is preached. Having thus Marcion in his 
prophetic view, he says, "I am God, and there is none else; there is no God 
beside me." And when in another passage he says, in like manner, "Before me 
there was no God," he strikes at those inexplicable genealogies of the 
Valentinian AEons. Again, there is an answer to Ebion in the Scripture: "Born, 
not of blood, nor 542 
of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God." In like 
manner, in the passage, "If even an angel of heaven preach unto you any other 
gospel than that which we have preached unto you, let him be anathema," he calls 
attention to the artful influence of Philumene, the virgin friend of Apelles. 
Surely he is antichrist who denies that Christ has come in the flesh. By 
declaring that His flesh is simply and absolutely true, and taken in the plain 
sense of its own nature, the Scripture aims a blow at all who make distinctions 
in it. In the same way, also, when it defines the very Christ to be but one, it 
shakes the fancies of those who exhibit a multiform Christ, who make Christ to 
be one being and Jesus another,--representing one as escaping out of the midst 
of the crowds, and the other as detained by them; one as appearing on a solitary 
mountain to three companions, clothed with glory in a cloud, the other as an 
ordinary man holding intercourse with all, one as magnanimous, but the other as 
timid; lastly, one as suffering death,the other as risen again, by means of 
which event they maintain a resurrection of their own also, only in another 
flesh. Happily, however, He who suffered "will come again from heaven," and by 
all shall He be seen, who rose again from the dead. They too who crucified Him 
shall see and acknowledge Him; that is to say, His very flesh, against which 
they spent their fury, and without which it would be impossible for Himself 
either to exist or to be seen; so that they must blush with shame who affirm 
that His flesh sits in heaven void of sensation, like a sheath only, Christ 
being withdrawn from it; as well as those who (maintain) that His flesh and soul 
are just the same thing, or else that His soul is all that exists? but that His 
flesh no longer lives. 
CHAP. XXV.--CONCLUSION.THIS TREATISE FORMS A PREFACE TO THE OTHER WORK, 
"ON "PROVING THE RESURRECTION OF THE FLESH," THE REALITY OF THE FLESH WHICH WAS 
TRULY BORN, AND DIED, AND ROSE AGAIN.
But let this suffice on our present subject; for I think that by this time 
proof enough has been adduced of the flesh in Christ having both been born of 
the virgin, and being human in its nature. And this discussion alone might have 
been sufficient, without encountering the isolated opinions which have been 
raised from different quarters. We have, however, challenged these opinions to 
the test, both of the arguments which sustain them, and of the Scriptures which 
are appealed to,and this we have done ex abundanti; so that we have, by showing 
what the flesh of Christ was, and whence it was derived, also predetermined the 
question, against all objectors, of what that flesh was not. The resurrection, 
however, of our own flesh will have to be maintained in another little treatise, 
and so bring to a close this present one, which serves as a general preface, and 
which will pave the way far the approaching subject now that it is plain what 
kind of body that was which rose again in Christ. 

