
Tertullian












TERTULLIAN 
THE FIVE BOOKS AGAINST MARCION.
[TRANSLATED BY DR. HOLMES.]
THE FIVE BOOKS AGAINST MARCION.
BOOK I. 
WHEREIN IS DESCRIBED THE GOD OF MARCION. HE IS SHOWN TO BE UTTERLY WANTING 
IN ALL THE ATTRIBUTES OF THE TRUE GOD.
CHAP. I.--PREFACE. REASON FOR A NEW WORK PONTUS LENDS ITS ROUGH CHARACTER 
TO THE HERETIC MARCION, A NATIVE. HIS HERESY CHARACTERIZED IN A BRIEF 
INVECTIVE.
WHATEVER in times past we have wrought in opposition to Marcion, is from the 
present moment no longer to be accounted of. It is a new work which we are 
undertaking in lieu of the old one. My original tract, as too hurriedly 
composed, I had subsequently superseded by a fuller treatise. This latter I 
lost, before it was completely published, by the fraud of a person who was then 
a brother, but became afterwards an apostate. He, as it happened, had 
transcribed a portion of it, full of mistakes, and then published it. The 
necessity thus arose for an amended work; and the occasion of the new edition 
induced me to make a considerable addition to the treatise. This present text, 
therefore, of my work--which is the third as superseding the second, but 
henceforward to be considered the first instead of the third--renders a preface 
necessary to this issue of the tract itself that no reader may be perplexed, if 
he should by chance fall in with the various forms of it which are scattered 
about. 
The Euxine Sea, as it is called, is self-contradictory in its nature, and 
deceptive in its name. As you would not account it hospitable from its 
situation, so is it severed from our more civilised waters by a certain stigma 
which attaches to its barbarous character. The fiercest nations inhabit it, if 
indeed it can be called habitation, when life is passed in waggons. They have no 
fixed abode; their life has no germ of civilisation; they indulge their 
libidinous desires without restraint, and for the most part naked. Moreover, 
when they gratify secret lust, they hang up their quivers on their car-yokes, to 
warn off the curious and rash observer. Thus without a blush do they prostitute 
their weapons of war. The dead bodies of their parents they cut up with their 
sheep, and devour at their feasts. They who have not died so as to become food 
for others, are thought to have died an accursed death. Their women are not by 
their sex softened to modesty. They uncover the breast, from which they suspend 
their battle-axes, and prefer warfare to marriage. In their climate, too, there 
is the same rude nature. The day-time is never clear, the sun never cheerful; 
the sky is uniformly cloudy; the whole year is wintry; the only wind that blows 
is the angry North. Waters melt only by fires; their rivers flow not by reason 
of the ice; their mountains are covered with heaps of snow. All things are 
torpid, all stiff with cold. Nothing there has the glow of life, but that 
ferocity which has given to scenic plays their stories of the sacrifices of the 
Taurians, and the loves of the Colchians, and the torments of the Caucasus. 
Nothing, however, in Pontus is so barbarous 272 
and sad as the fact that Marcion was born there, fouler than any Scythian, 
more roving than the waggon-life of the Sarmatian, more inhuman than the 
Massagete, more audacious than an Amazon, darker than the cloud, (of Pontus) 
colder than its winter, more brittle than its ice, more deceitful than the 
Ister, more craggy than Caucasus. Nay more, the true Prometheus, Almighty God, 
is mangled by Marcion's blasphemies. Marcion is more savage than even the beasts 
of that barbarous region. For what beaver was ever a greater emasculator than he 
who has abolished the nuptial bond? What Pontic mouse ever had such gnawing 
powers as he who has gnawed the Gospels to pieces? 
Verily, O Euxine, thou hast produced a monster more credible to philosophers 
than to Christians. For the cynic Diogenes used to go about, lantern in hand, at 
mid-day to find a man; whereas Marcion has quenched the light of his faith, and 
so lost the God whom he had found. His disciples will not deny that his first 
faith he held along with ourselves; a letter of his own proves this; so that for 
the future a heretic may from his case be designated as one who, forsaking that 
which was prior, afterwards chose out for himself that which was not in times 
past. For in as far as what was delivered in times past and from the beginning 
will be held as truth, in so far will that be accounted heresy which is brought 
in later. But another brief treatise will maintain this position against 
heretics, who ought to be refuted even without a consideration of their 
doctrines, on the ground that they are heretical by reason of the novelty of 
their opinions. Now, so far as any controversy is to be admitted, I will for the 
time (lest our compendious principle of novelty, being called in on all 
occasions to our aid, should be imputed to want of confidence) begin with 
setting forth our adversary's rule of belief, that it may escape no one what our 
main contention is to be. 
CHAP. II.--MARCION, AIDED BY CERDON, TEACHES A DUALITY OF GODS; HOW HE 
CONSTRUCTED THIS HERESY OF AN EVIL AND A GOOD GOD.
The heretic of Pontus introduces two Gods, like the twin Symplegades of his 
own shipwreck: One whom it was impossible to deny, i.e. our Creator; and one 
whom he will never be able to prove, i.e. his own god. The unhappy man gained 
the first idea of his conceit from the simple passage of our Lord's saying, 
which has reference to human beings and not divine ones, wherein He disposes of 
those examples of a good tree and a corrupt one; how that "the good tree 
bringeth not forth corrupt fruit, neither the corrupt tree good fruit." Which 
means, that an honest mind and good faith cannot produce evil deeds, any more 
than an evil disposition can produce good deeds. Now (like many other persons 
now-a-days, especially those who have an heretical proclivity), while morbidly 
brooding over the question of the origin of evil, his perception became blunted 
by the very irregularity of his researches; and when he found the Creator 
declaring, "I am He that createth evil," inasmuch as he had already concluded 
from other arguments, which are satisfactory to every perverted mind, that God 
is the author of evil, so he now applied to the Creator the figure of the 
corrupt tree bringing forth evil fruit, that is, moral evil, and then presumed 
that there ought to be another god, after the analogy of the good tree producing 
its good fruit. Accordingly, finding in Christ a different disposition, as it 
were--one of a simple and pure benevolence--differing from the Creator, he 
readily argued that in his Christ had been revealed a new and strange divinity; 
and then with a little leaven he leavened the whole lump of the faith, 
flavouring it with the acidity of his own heresy. 
He had, moreover, in one Cerdon an abettor of this blasphemy,--a circumstance 
which made them the more readily think that they saw most clearly their two 
gods, blind though they were; for, in truth, they had not seen the one God with 
soundness of faith. To men of diseased vision even one lamp looks like many. One 
of his gods, therefore, whom he was obliged to acknowledge, he destroyed by 
defaming his attributes in the 273 
matter of evil; the other, whom he laboured so hard to devise, he 
constructed, laying his foundation in the principle of good. In what articles he 
arranged these natures, we show by our own refutations of them. 
CHAP. III.--THE UNITY OF GOD. HE IS THE SUPREME BEING, AND THERE CANNOT BE 
A SECOND SUPREME.
The principal, and indeed the whole, contention lies in the point of number: 
whether two Gods may be admitted, by poetic licence (if they must be), or 
pictorial fancy, or by the third process, as we must now add, of heretical 
pravity. But the Christian verity has distinctly declared this principle, "God 
is not, if He is not one;" because we more properly believe that that has no 
existence which is not as it ought to be. In order, however, that you may know 
that God is one, ask what God is, and you will find Him to be not otherwise than 
one. So far as a human being can form a definition of God, I adduce one which 
the conscience of all men will also acknowledge,--that God is the great Supreme 
existing in eternity, unbegotten, unmade without beginning, without end. For 
such a condition as this must needs be ascribed to that eternity which makes God 
to be the great Supreme, because for such a purpose as this is this very 
attribute in God; and so on as to the other qualities: so that God is the great 
Supreme in form and in reason, and in might and in power. Now, since all are 
agreed on. this point (because nobody will deny that God is in some sense the 
great Supreme, except the man who shall be able to pronounce the opposite 
opinion, that God is but some inferior being, in order that he may deny God by 
robbing Him of an attribute of God), what must be the condition of the great 
Supreme Himself? Surely it must be that nothing is equal to Him, i.e. that there 
is no other great supreme; because, if there were, He would have an equal; and 
if He had an equal, He would be no longer the great Supreme, now that the 
condition and (so to say) our law, which permits nothing to be equal to the 
great Supreme, is subverted. That Being, then, which is the great Supreme, must 
needs be unique, by having no equal, and so not ceasing to be the great Supreme. 

Therefore He will not otherwise exist than by the condition whereby He has 
His being; that is, by His absolute uniqueness. Since, then, God is the great 
Supreme, our Christian verity has rightly declared, "God is not, if He is not 
one." Not as if we doubted His being God, by saying, He is not, if He is not 
one; but because we define Him, in whose being we thoroughly believe, to be that 
without which He is not God; that is to say, the great Supreme. But then` the 
great Supreme must needs be unique. This Unique Being, therefore, will be 
God--not otherwise God than as the great Supreme; and not otherwise the great 
Supreme than as having no equal; and not otherwise having no equal than as being 
Unique. Whatever other god, then, you may introduce, you will at least be unable 
to maintain his divinity under any other guise, than by ascribing to him too the 
property of Godhead--both eternity and supremacy over all. How, therefore, can 
two great Supremes co-exist, when this is the attribute of the Supreme Being, to 
have no equal,--an attribute which belongs to One alone, and can by no means 
exist in two? 
CHAP. IV..--DEFENCE OF THE DIVINE UNITY AGAINST OBJECTION. NO ANALOGY 
BETWEEN HUMAN POWERS AND GOD'S SOVEREIGNTY. THE OBJECTION OTHERWISE UNTENABLE, 
FOR WHY STOP AT TWO GODS?
But some one may contend that two great Supremes may exist, distinct and 
separate in their own departments; and may even adduce, as an example, the 
kingdoms of the world, which, though they are so many in number, are yet supreme 
in their several regions. Such a man will suppose that human circumstances are 
always comparable with divine ones. Now, if this mode of reasoning be at all 
tolerable, what is to prevent our introducing, I will not say a third god or a 
fourth, but as many as there are kings of the earth? Now it is God that is in 
question, whose main property it is to admit of no comparison with Himself. 
Nature itself, therefore, if not an Isaiah, or rather God speaking by Isaiah, 
will deprecatingly ask, "To whom will ye liken me?" Human circumstances may 
perhaps be compared with divine ones, but they may not be with God. God is one 
thing, and what belongs to God is another thing. Once more: you who apply the 
example of a king, as a great 274 
supreme, take care that you can use it properly. For although a king is 
supreme on his throne next to God, he is still inferior to God; and when he is 
compared with God, he will be dislodged from that great supremacy which is 
transferred to God. Now, this being the case, how will you employ in a 
comparison with God an object as your example, which fails in all the purposes 
which belong to a comparison? Why, when supreme power among kings cannot 
evidently be multifarious, but only unique and singular, is an exception made in 
the case of Him (of all others) who is King of kings, and (from the exceeding 
greatness of His power, and the subjection of all other ranks to Him) the very 
summit, as it were, of dominion? But even in the case of rulers of that other 
form of government, where they one by one preside in a union of authority, if 
with their petty prerogatives of royalty, so to say, they be brought on all 
points into such a comparison with one another as shall make it clear which of 
them is superior in the essential features 
and powers of royalty, it must needs follow that the supreme majesty will 
redound to one alone,--all the others being gradually, by the issue of the 
comparison, removed and excluded from the supreme authority. Thus, although, 
when spread out in several hands, supreme authority seems to be multifarious, 
yet in its own powers, nature, and condition, it is unique. It follows, then, 
that if two gods are compared, as two kings and two supreme authorities, the 
concentration of authority must necessarily, according to the meaning of the 
comparison, be conceded to one of the two; because it is clear from his own 
superiority that he is the supreme, his rival being now vanquished, and proved 
to be not the greater, however great. Now, from this failure of his rival, the 
other is unique in power, possessing a certain solitude, as it were, in his 
singular pre-eminence. The inevitable conclusion at which we arrive, then, on 
this point is this: either we must deny that God is the great Supreme, which no 
wise man will allow himself to do; or say that God has no one else with whom to 
share His power. 
CHAP. V.--THE DUAL PRINCIPLE FALLS TO THE GROUND; PLURALITY OF 
GODS, OF WHATEVER NUMBER, MORE CONSISTENT. ABSURDITY AND INJURY TO PIETY 
RESULTING FROM MARCION'S DUALITY.
But on what principle did Marcion confine his supreme powers to two? I would 
first ask, If there be two, why not more? Because if number be compatible with 
the substance of Deity, the richer you make it in number the better. Valentinus 
was more consistent and more liberal; for he, having once imagined two deities, 
Bythos and Sige, poured forth a swarm of divine essences, a brood of no less 
than thirty AEgons, like the sow of AEneas. Now, whatever principle refuses to 
admit several supreme begins, the same must reject even two, for there is 
plurality in the very lowest number after one. After unity, number commences. 
So, again, the same principle which could admit two could admit more. After two, 
multitude begins, now that one is exceeded. In short, we feel that reason 
herself expressly forbids the belief in more gods than one, because the 
self-same rule lays down one God and not two, which declares that God must be a 
Being to which, as the great Supreme, nothing is equal; and that Being to which 
nothing is equal must, moreover, be unique. But further, what can be the use or 
advantage in supposing two supreme beings, two co-ordinate powers? What 
numerical difference could there be when two equals differ not from one? For 
that thing which is the same in two is one. Even if there were several equals, 
all would be just as much one, because, as equals, they would not differ one 
from another. So, if of two beings neither differs from the other, since both of 
them are on the supposition supreme, both being gods, neither of them is more 
excellent than the other; and so, having no pre-eminence, their numerical 
distinction has no reason in it. Number, moreover, in the Deity ought to be 
consistent with the highest reason, or else His worship would be brought into 
doubt. For consider now, if, when I saw two Gods before me (who, being both 
Supreme Beings, were equal to each other), I were to worship them both, what 
should I be doing? I should be much afraid that the abundance of my homage would 
be deemed superstition rather than piety. Because, as both of them are so equal 
and are both included in either of the 275 
two, I might serve them both acceptably in only one; and by this very means I 
should attest their equality and unity, provided that I worshipped them mutually 
the one in the other, because in the one both are present to me. If I were to 
worship one of the two, I should be equally conscious of seeming to pour 
contempt on the uselessness of a numerical distinction, which was superfluous, 
because it indicated no difference; in other words, I should think it the safer 
course to worship neither of these two Gods than one of them with some scruple 
of conscience, or both of them to none effect. 
CHAP. VI.--MARCION UNTRUE TO HIS THEORY. HE PRETENDS THAT HIS GODS ARE 
EQUAL, BUT HE REALLY MAKES THEM DIVERSE. THEN, ALLOWING THEIR DIVINITY, DENIES 
THIS
DIVERSITY.
Thus far our discussion seems to imply that Marcion makes his two gods equal. 
For while we have been maintaining that God ought to be believed as the one only 
great Supreme Being, excluding from Him every possibility of equality, we have 
treated of these topics on the assumption of two equal Gods; but nevertheless, 
by teaching that no equals can exist according to the law of the Supreme Being, 
we have sufficiently affirmed the impossibility that two equals should exist. 
For the rest, however, we know full well that Marcion makes his gods unequal: 
one judicial, harsh, mighty in war; the other mild, placid, and simply good and 
excellent. Let us with similar care consider also this aspect of the question, 
whether diversity (in the Godhead) can at any rate contain two, since equality 
therein failed to do so. Here again the same rule about the great Supreme will 
protect us, inasmuch as it settles the entire condition of the Godhead. Now, 
challenging, and in a certain sense arresting the meaning of our adversary, who 
does not deny that the Creator is God, I most fairly object against him that he 
has no room for any diversity in his gods, because, having once confessed that 
they are on a par, he cannot now pronounce them different; not indeed that human 
beings may not be very different under the same designation, be because the 
Divine Being can be neither said nor believed to be God, except as the great 
Supreme. Since, therefore, he is obliged to acknowledge that the God whom he 
does not deny is the great Supreme, it is inadmissible that he should predicate 
of the Supreme Being such a diminution as should subject Him to another Supreme 
Being. For He ceases (to be Supreme), if He becomes subject to any. Besides, it 
is not the characteristic of God to cease from any attribute of His 
divinity--say, from His supremacy. For at this rate the supremacy would be 
endangered even in Marcion's more powerful god, if it were capable of 
depreciation in the Creator. When, therefore, two gods are pronounced to be two 
great Supremes, it must needs follow that neither of them is greater or less 
than the other, neither of them loftier or lowlier than the other. If you deny 
him to be God whom you call inferior, you deny the supremacy of this inferior 
being. But when you confessed both gods to be divine, you confessed then both to 
be supreme. Nothing will you be able to take away from either of them; nothing 
will you be able to add. By allowing their divinity, you have denied their 
diversity. 
CHAP. VII.--OTHER BEINGS BESIDES GOD ARE IN SCRIPTURE CALLED GOD. 
THIS OBJECTION FRIVOLOUS, FOR IT IS NOT A QUESTION OF NAMES. THE DIVINE ESSENCE 
IS THE THING AT ISSUE. HERESY, IN ITS GENERAL TERMS, THUS FAR TREATED.
But this argument you will try to shake with an objection from the name of 
God, by alleging that that name is a vague one, and applied to other beings 
also; as it is written, "God standeth in the congregation of the mighty; He 
judgeth among the gods." And again, "I have said, Ye are gods." As therefore the 
attribute of supremacy would be inappropriate to these, although they are called 
gods, so is it to the Creator. This is a foolish objection; and my answer to it 
is, that its author fails to consider that quite as strong an objection might be 
urged against the (superior) god of Marcion: he too is called god, but is not on 
that account proved to be divine, as neither are angels nor men, the Creator's 
handwork. If an identity of names affords a presumption in support of equality 
of condition, how often do worthless menials strut insolently in the names of 
kings--your Alexanders, Caesars, and Pompeys! This fact, 276 
however, does not detract from the real attributes of the royal persons, Nay 
more, the very idols of the Gentiles are called gods. Yet not one of them is 
divine because he is called a god. It is not, therefore, for the name of god, 
for its sound or its written form, that I am claiming the supremacy in the 
Creator, but for the essence to which the name belongs; and when I find that 
essence alone is unbegotten and unmade--alone eternal, and the maker of all 
things--it is not to its name, but its state, not to its designation, but its 
condition, that I ascribe and appropriate the attribute of the supremacy. And 
so, because the essence to which I ascribe it has come to be called god, you 
suppose that I ascribe it to the name, because I must needs use a name to 
express the essence, of which indeed that Being consists who is called God, and 
who is accounted the great Supreme because of His essence, not from His name. In 
short, Marcion himself, when he imputes this character to his god, imputes it to 
the nature, not to the word. That supremacy, then, which we ascribe to God in 
consideration of His essence, and not because of His name, ought, as we 
maintain, to be equal in both the beings who consist of that substance for which 
the name of God is given; because, in as far as they are called gods (i.e. 
supreme beings, on the strength, of course, of their unbegotten and eternal, and 
therefore great and supreme essence), in so far the attribute of being the great 
Supreme cannot be regarded as less or worse in one than in another great 
Supreme. If the happiness, and sublimity, and perfection of the Supreme Being 
shall hold good of Marcion's god, it will equally so of ours; and if not of 
ours, it will equally not hold of Marcion's. Therefore two supreme beings will 
be neither equal nor unequal: not equal, because the principle which we have 
just expounded, that the Surpeme Being admits of no comparison with Himself, 
forbids it; not unequal, because another principle meets us respecting the 
Supreme Being, that He is capable of no diminution. So, Marcion, you are caught 
in the midst of your own Pontic tide. The waves of truth overwhelm you on every 
side. You can neither set up equal gods nor unequal ones. For there are not two; 
so far as the question of number is properly concerned. Although the whole 
matter of the two gods is at issue, we have yet confined our discussion to 
certain bounds, within which we shall now have to contend about separate 
peculiarities. 
CHAP. VIII.--SPECIFIC POINTS. THE NOVELTY OF MARCION'S GOD FATAL TO HIS 
PRETENSIONS. GOD IS FROM EVERLASTING, HE CANNOT BE IN ANY WISE NEW.
In the first place, how arrogantly do the Marcionites build up their stupid 
system, bringing forward a new god, as if we were ashamed of the old one! So 
schoolboys are proud of their new shoes, but their old master beats their 
strutting vanity out of them. Now when I hear of a new god, who, in the old 
world and in the old time and under the old god was unknown and unheard of; 
whom, (accounted as no one through such long centuries back, and ancient in 
men's very ignorance of him), a certain "Jesus Christ," and none else revealed; 
whom Christ revealed, they say--Christ himself new, according to them, even, in 
ancient names--I feel grateful for this conceit of theirs. For by its help I 
shall at once be able to prove the heresy of their tenet of a new deity. It will 
turn out to be such a novelty "as has made gods even for the heathen by some new 
and yet again and ever new title for each several deification. What new god is 
there, except a false one? Not even Saturn will be proved to be a god by all his 
ancient fame, because it was a novel pretence which some time or other produced 
even him, when it first gave him godship. On the contrary, living and perfect 
Deity has its origin neither in novelty nor in antiquity, but in its own true 
nature. Eternity has no time. It is itself all time. It acts; it cannot then 
suffer. It cannot be born, therefore it lacks age. God, if old, forfeits the 
eternity that is to come; if new, the eternity which is past. The newness bears 
witness to a beginning; the oldness threatens an end. God, moreover, is as 
independent of beginning and end as He is of time, which is only the arbiter and 
measurer of a beginning and an end. 
277 
CHAP. IX.--MARCION'S GNOSTIC PRETENSIONS VAIN, FOR THE TRUE GOD IS NEITHER 
UNKNOWN NOR UNCERTAIN. THE CREATOR, WHOM HE OWNS TO BE GOD, ALONE SUPPLIES 
AN
INDUCTION, BY WHICH TO JUDGE OF THE TRUE GOD.
Now I know full well by what perceptive faculty they boast of their new god; 
even their knowledge. It is, however, this very discovery of a novel thing--so 
striking to common minds--as well as the natural gratification which is inherent 
in novelty, that I wanted to refute, and thence further to challenge a proof of 
this unknown god. For him whom by their knowledge they present to us as new, 
they prove to have been unknown previous to that knowledge. Let us keep, within 
the strict limits and measure of our argument. Convince me there could have been 
an unknown god. I find, no doubt, that altars have been lavished on unknown 
gods; that, however, is the idolatry of Athens. And on uncertain gods; but that, 
too, is only Roman superstition. Furthermore, uncertain gods are not well known, 
because no certainty about them exists; and because of this uncertainty they are 
therefore unknown. Now, which of these two titles shall we carve for Marcion's 
god? Both, I suppose, as for a being who is still uncertain, and was formerly 
unknown. For inasmuch as the Creator, being a known God, caused him to be 
unknown; so, as being a certain God, he made him to be uncertain. But I will not 
go so far out of my way, as to say: If God was unknown and concealed, He was 
overshadowed in such a region of darkness, as must have been itself new and 
unknown, and be even now likewise uncertain--some immense region indeed, one 
undoubtedly greater than the God whom it concealed. But I will briefly state my 
subject, and afterwards most fully pursue it, promising that God neither could 
have been, nor ought to have been, unknown. Could not have been, because of His 
greatness; ought not to have been, because of His goodness, especially as He is 
(supposed, by Marcion) more excellent in both these attributes than our Creator. 
Since, however, I observe that in some points the proof of every new and 
heretofore unknown god ought, for its test, to be compared to the form of the 
Creator, it will be my duty first of all to show that this very course is 
adopted by me in a settled plan, such as I might with greater confidence use in 
support of my argument. Before every other consideration, (let me ask) how it 
happens that you, who acknowledge the Creator to be God, and from your knowledge 
confess Him to be prior in existence, do not know that the other god should be 
examined by you in exactly the same course of investigation which has taught you 
how to find out a god in the first case? 
Every prior thing has furnished the rule for the latter. In the present 
question two gods are propounded, the unknown and the known. Concerning the 
known there is no question. It is plain that He exists, else He would not be 
known. The dispute is concerning the unknown god. Possibly he has no existence; 
because, if he had, he would have been known. Now that which, so long as it is 
unknown, is an object to be questioned, is an uncertainty so long as it remains 
thus questionable; and all the while it is in this state of uncertainty, it 
possibly has no existence at all. You have a god who is so far certain, as he is 
known; and uncertain, as unknown. This being the case, does it appear to you to 
be justly defensible, that uncertain ties should be submitted for proof to the 
rule, and form, and standard of certainties? Now, if to the subject before us, 
which is in itself full of uncertainty thus far, there be applied also arguments 
derived from uncertainties, we shall be involved in such a series of questions 
arising out of our treatment of these same uncertain arguments, as shall by 
reason of their uncertainty be dangerous to the faith, and we shall drift into 
those insoluble questions which the apostle has no affection for. If, again, in 
things wherein there is found a diversity of condition, they shall prejudge, as 
no doubt they will, uncertain, doubtful, and intricate points, by the certain, 
undoubted, and clear sides of their rule, it will probably happen that (those 
points) will not be submitted to the standard of certainties for determination, 
as being freed by the diversity of their essential condition from the 
application of such a standard in all other respects. As, therefore, it is two 
gods which are the subject of our proposition, their essential condition must be 
the same in both. For, as concerns their divinity, they are both unbegotten, 
unmade, eternal. This will be their essential condition. All other points 
Marcion 278 
himself seems to have made, light of, for he has placed them in a different 
category. They are subsequent in the order of treatment; indeed, they will not 
have to be brought into the discussion, since on the essential condition there 
is no dispute. Now there is this absence of our dispute, because they are both 
of them gods. Those things, therefore, whose community of condition is evident, 
will, when brought to a test on the ground of that common condition, have to be 
submitted, although they are uncertain, to the standard of those certainties 
with which they are classed in the community of their essential condition, so as 
on this account to share also in their manner of proof. I shall therefore 
contend with the greatest confidence that he is not God who is to-day uncertain, 
because he has been hitherto unknown; for of whomsoever it is evident that he is 
God, from this very fact it is (equally) evident, that he never has been 
unknown, and therefore never uncertain. 
CHAP. X.--THE CREATOR WAS KNOWN AS THE TRUE GOD FROM THE FIRST BY HIS 
CREATION. ACKNOWLEDGED BY THE SOUL AND CONSCIENCE OF MAN BEFORE HE WAS REVEALED 
BY MOSES.
For indeed, as the Creator of all things, He was from the beginning 
discovered equally with them, they having been themselves manifested that He 
might become known as God. For although Moses, some long while afterwards, seems 
to have been the first to introduce the knowledge of the God of the universe in 
the temple of his writings, yet the birthday of that knowledge must not on that 
account be reckoned from the Pentateuch. For the volume of Moses does not at all 
initiate the knowledge of the Creator, but from the first gives out that it is 
to be traced from Paradise and Adam, not from Egypt and Moses. The greater part, 
therefore, of the human race, although they knew not even the name of Moses, 
much less his writings, yet knew the God of Moses; and even when idolatry 
overshadowed the world with its extreme prevalence, men still spoke of Him 
separately by His own name as God, and the God of gods, and said, "If God 
grant," and, "As God pleases," and, "I commend you to God." Reflect, then, 
whether they knew Him, of whom they testify that He can do all things. To none 
of the writings of Moses do they owe this. The soul was before prophecy. From 
the beginning the knowledge of God is the dowry of the soul, one and the same 
amongst the Egyptians, and the Syrians, and the tribes of Pontus. For their 
souls call the God of the Jews their God. Do not, O barbarian heretic, put 
Abraham before the world. Even if the Creator had been the God of one family, He 
was yet not later than your god; even in Pontus was He known before him. Take 
then your standard from Him who came first: from the Certain (must be judged) 
the uncertain; from the Known the unknown. Never shall God be hidden, never 
shall God be wanting. Always shall He be understood, always be heard, nay even 
seen, in whatsoever way He shall wish. God has for His witnesses this whole 
being of ours, and this universe wherein we dwell. He is thus, because not 
unknown, proved to be both God and the only One, although another still tries 
hard to make out his claim. 
CHAP.XI.--THE EVIDENCE FOR GOD EXTERNAL TO HIM; BUT THE EXTERNAL 
CREATION
WHICH YIELDS THIS EVIDENCE IS REALLY NOT EXTRANEOUS, FOR ALL THINGS ARE 
GOD'S.
MARCION'S GOD, HAVING NOTHING TO SHOW FOR HIMSELF, NO GOD AT ALL. 
MARCION'S
SCHEME ABSURDLY DEFECTIVE, NOT FURNISHING EVIDENCE FOR HIS NEW GOD'S
EXISTENCE, WHICH SHOULD AT LEAST BE ABLE TO COMPETE WITH THE FULL EVIDENCE 
OF
THE CREATOR.
And justly so, they say. For who is there that is less well known by his own 
(inherent) qualities than by strange ones? No one. Well, I keep to this 
statement. How could anything be strange. to God, to whom, if He were personally 
existent, nothing would be strange? For this is the attribute of God, that all 
things are His, and all things belong to Him; or else this question would not so 
readily be heard from us: What has He to do with things strange to Him?--a point 
which will be more fully noticed in its proper place. It is now sufficient to 
observe, that no one is proved to exist to whom nothing is proved to belong. For 
as the Creator is shown to be God, God without any doubt, from the fact that all 
things are His, and nothing is strange to Him; so the rival god is seen to be no 
god, from the circumstance that nothing is his, and all things are therefore 
strange to 279 
him. Since, then, the universe belongs to the Creator, I see no room for any 
other god. All things are full of their Author, and occupied by Him. If in 
created beings there be any portion of space anywhere void of Deity, the void 
will be of a false deity clearly. By falsehood the truth is made clear. Why 
cannot the vast crowd of false gods somewhere find room for Marcion's god? This, 
therefore, I insist upon, from the character of the Creator, that God must have 
been known from the works of some world peculiarly His own, both in its human 
constituents, and the rest of its organic life; when even the error of the world 
has presumed to call gods those men whom it sometimes acknowledges, on the 
ground that in every such case something is. seen which provides for the uses 
and advantages of life. Accordingly, this also was believed from the character 
of God to be a divine function; namely, to teach or point out what is convenient 
and needful in human concerns. So completely has the authority which has given 
influence to a false divinity been borrowed from that source, whence it had 
previously flowed forth to the true one. One stray vegetable s at least 
Marcion's god ought to have produced as his own; so might he be preached up as a 
new Triptolemus. Or else state some reason which shall be worthy of a God, why 
he, supposing him to exist, created nothing; because he must, on supposition of 
his existence, have been a creator, on that very principle on which it is clear 
to us thai our God is no otherwise existent, than as having been the Creator of 
this universe of ours. 
For, once for all, the rule will hold good, that they cannot both acknowledge 
the Creator to be God, and also prove him divine whom they wish to be equally 
believed in as God, except they adjust him to the standard of Him whom they and 
all men hold to be God; which is this, that whereas no one doubts the Creator to 
be God on the express ground of His having made the universe, so, on the 
selfsame ground, no one ought to believe that he also is God who has made 
nothing--except, indeed, some good reason be forthcoming. And this must needs be 
limited to one of two: he was either unwilling to create, or else unable. There 
is no third reason. Now, that he was unable, is a reason unworthy of God. 
Whether to have been unwilling to be a worthy one, I 
want to inquire. Tell me, Marcion, did your god wish himself to be recognised 
at any time or not? With what other purpose did he come down from heaven, and 
preach, and having suffered rise again from the dead, if it were not that he 
might be acknowledged? And, doubtless, since he was acknowledged, he willed it. 
For no circumstance could have happened to him, if he had been unwilling. 
What indeed tended so greatly to the knowledge of himself, as his appearing 
in the humiliation of the flesh,--a degradation all the lower indeed if the 
flesh were only illusory? For it was all the more shameful if he, who brought on 
himself the Creator's curse by hanging on a tree, only pretended the assumption 
of a bodily substance. A far nobler foundation might he have laid for the 
knowledge of himself in some evidences of a creation of his own, especially when 
he had to become known in opposition to Him in whose territory he had remained 
unknown by any works from the beginning. For how happens it that the Creator, 
although unaware, as the Marcionites aver, of any god being above Himself, and 
who used to declare even with an oath that He existed alone, should have guarded 
by such mighty works the knowledge of Himself, about which, on the assumption of 
His being alone without a rival, He might have spared Himself all care; while 
the Superior God, knowing all the while how well furnished in power His inferior 
rival was, should have made no provision at all towards getting Himself 
acknowledged? Whereas He ought to have produced works more illustrious and 
exalted still, in order that He might, after the Creator's standard, both be 
acknowledged as God from His works, and even by nobler deeds show Himself to be 
more potent and more gracious than the Creator. 
CHAP. XII.--IMPOSSIBILITY OF ACKNOWLEDGING GOD WITHOUT THIS EXTERNAL 
EVIDENCE OF HIS EXISTENCE. MARCION'S REJECTION OF SUCH EVIDENCE FOR HIS GOD 
SAVOURS OF IMPUDENCE AND MALIGNITY.
But even if we were able to allow that he exists, we should yet be bound to 
argue that he is without a cause. For he who had nothing (to show for himself as 
proof of his existence),would be without a cause, since (such) proof is the 
whole cause that there exists 280 
some person to whom the proof belongs. Now, in as far as nothing ought to be 
without a cause, that is, without a proof (because if it be without a cause, it 
is all one as if it be not, not having the very proof which is the cause of a 
thing), in so far shall I more worthily believe that God does not exist, than 
that He exists without a cause. For he is without a cause who has not a cause by 
reason of not having a proof. God, however, ought not to be without a cause, 
that is to say, without a proof. Thus, as often as I show that He exists without 
a cause, although (I allow that) He exists, I do really determine this, that He 
does not exist; because, if He had existed, He could not have existed altogether 
without a cause. So, too, even in regard to faith itself, I say that he seeks to 
obtain it with out cause from man, who is otherwise accustomed to believe in God 
from the idea he gets of Him from the testimony of His works: (without cause, I 
repeat,) because he has provided no such proof as that whereby man has acquired 
the knowledge of God. 
For although most persons believe in Him, they do not believe at once by 
unaided reason, without having some token of Deity in works worthy of God. 
And so upon this ground of inactivity and lack of works he is guilty both of 
impudence and malignity: of impudence, in aspiring after a belief which is not 
due to him, and for which he has provided no foundation; of malignity, in having 
brought many persons under the charge of unbelief by furnishing to them no 
groundwork for their faith. 
CHAP.XIII.--THE MARCIONITES DEPRECIATE THE CREATION, WHICH, HOWEVER, IS A 
WORTHY WITNESS OF GOD. THIS WORTHINESS ILLUSTRATED BY REFERENCES TO THE HEATHEN 
PHILOSOPHERS, WHO WERE APT TO INVEST THE SEVERAL PARTS OF CREATION WITH DIVINE 
ATTRIBUTES.
While we are expelling from this rank (of Deity) a god who has no evidence to 
show for himself which is so proper and God-worthy as the testimony of the 
Creator, Marcion's most shameless followers with haughty impertinence fall upon 
the Creator's works to destroy them. To be sure, say they, the world is a grand 
work, worthy of a God. (90 Then is the Creator not at all a God? By all means He 
is God. Therefore the world is not unworthy of God, for God has made nothing 
unworthy of Himself; although it was for man, and not for Himself, that He made 
the world, (and) although every work is less than its maker. And yet, if to have 
been the author of our creation, such as it is, be unworthy of God, how much 
more unworthy of Him is it to have created absolutely nothing at all!--not even 
a production which, although unworthy, might yet have encouraged the hope of 
some better attempt. To say somewhat, then, concerning the alleged unworthiness 
of this world's fabric, to which among the Greeks also is assigned a name of 
ornament and grace, not of sordidness, those very professors of wisdom, from 
whose genius every heresy derives its spirit, called the said unworthy elements 
divine; as Thales did water, Heraclitus fire, Anaximenes air, Anaximander all 
the heavenly bodies, Strato the sky and earth, Zeno the air and ether, and Plato 
the stars, which he calls a fiery kind of gods; whilst concerning the world, 
when they considered indeed its magnitude, and strength, and power, and honour, 
and glory,--the abundance, too, the regularity, and law of those individual 
elements which contribute to the production, the nourishment, the ripening, and 
the reproduction of all things,--the majority of the philosophers hesitated to 
assign a beginning and an end to the said world, lest its constituent elements, 
great as they undoubtedly are, should fail to be regarded as divine, which are 
objects of worshsip with the Persian magi, the Egyptian hierophants, and the 
Indian gymnosophists. The very superstition of the crowd, inspired by the common 
idolatry, when ashamed of the names and fables of their ancient dead borne by 
their idols, has recourse to the interpretation of natural objects, and so with 
much ingenuity cloaks its own disgrace, figuratively reducing Jupiter to a 
heated substance, and Juno to an aerial one (according to the literal sense of 
the Greek words); Vesta, in like manner, to fire, and the Muses to waters, and 
the Great Mother to the earth, mowed as to its crops, ploughed up with lusty 
arms, and watered 281 
with baths. Thus Osiris also, whenever he is buried, and looked for to come 
to life again, and with joy recovered, is an emblem of the regularity wherewith 
the fruits of the ground return, and the elements recover life, and the year 
comes round; as also the lions of Mithras are philosophical sacraments of arid 
and scorched nature. It is, indeed, enough for me that natural elements, 
foremost in site and state, should have been more readily regarded as divine 
than as unworthy of God. I will, however, come down to humbler objects. A single 
floweret from the hedgerow, I say not from the meadows; a single little 
shellfish from any sea, I say not from the Red Sea; a single stray wing of a 
moorfowl, I say nothing of the peacock,--will, I presume, prove to you that the 
Creator was but a sorry artificer! 
CHAP. XIV.--ALL PORTIONS OF CREATION ATTEST THE EXCELLENCE OF THE 
CREATOR, WHOM MARCION VILIFIES. HIS INCONSISTENCY HEREIN EXPOSED. MARCION'S OWN 
GOD DID NOT HESITATE TO USE THE CREATOR'S WORKS
IN INSTITUTING HIS OWN RELIGION.
Now, when you make merry with those minuter animals, which their glorious 
Maker has purposely endued with a profusion. of instincts and 
resources,--thereby teaching us that greatness has its proofs in lowliness, just 
as (according to the apostle)there is power even in infirmity--imitate, if you 
can, the cells of the bee, the hills of the ant, the webs of the spider, and the 
threads of the silkworm; endure, too, if you know how, those very creatures 
which infest your couch and house, the poisonous ejections of the 
blister-beetle, the spikes of the fly, and the gnat's Sheath and sting. What of 
the greater animals, when the small ones so affect you with pleasure or pain, 
that you cannot even in their case despise their Creator? Finally, take a 
circuit round your own self; survey man within and without. Even this handiwork 
of our God will be pleasing to you, inasmuch as your own lord, that better god, 
loved it so well, and for your sake was at the pains of descending from the 
third heaven to these poverty-stricken elements, and for the same reason was 
actually crucified in this sorry apartment of the Creator. Indeed, up to the 
present time, he has not disdained the water which the Creator made wherewith he 
washes his people; nor the oil with which he anoints them; nor that union of 
honey and milk wherewithal he gives them the nourishment of children; nor the 
bread by which he represents his own proper body, thus requiring in his very 
sacraments the "beggarly elements" of the Creator. You, however, are a disciple 
above his master, and a servant above his lord; you have a higher reach of 
discernment than his; you destroy what he requires. I wish to examine whether 
you are at least honest in this, so as to have no longing for those things which 
you destroy. You are an enemy to the sky, and yet you are glad to catch its 
freshness in your houses. You disparage the earth, although the elemental parent 
of your own flesh, as if it were your undoubted enemy, and yet you extract from 
it all its fatness for your food. The sea, too, you reprobate, but are 
continually using its produce, which you account the more sacred diet. If I 
should offer you a rose, you will not disdain its Maker. You hypocrite, however 
much of abstinence you use to show yourself a Marcionite, that is, a repudiator 
of your Maker (for if the world displeased you, such abstinence ought to have 
been affected by you as a martyrdom), you will have to associate yourself with 
the Creator's material production, into what element soever you shall be 
dissolved. How hard is this obstinacy of yours! You vilify the things in which 
you both live and die. 
CHAP. XV.--THE LATENESS OF THE REVELATION OF MARCION'S GOD. THE 
QUESTION OF THE PLACE OCCUPIED BY THE RIVAL DEITIES. INSTEAD OF TWO GODS, 
MARCION REALLY (ALTHOUGH, AS IT WOULD SEEM, UNCONSCIOUSLY) HAD NINE GODS IN HIS 
SYSTEM.
After all, or, if you like, before all, since you have said that he has a 
creation of his own, and his own world, and his own sky; we shall see, indeed, 
about that third heaven, when we come to discuss even your own apos 282 
tle. Meanwhile, whatever is the (created) substance, it ought at any rate to 
have made its appearance in company with its own god. But now, how happens it 
that the Lord has been revealed since the twelfth year of Tiberius Caesar, while 
no creation of His at all has been discovered up to the fifteenth of the Emperor 
Severus; although, as being more excellent than the paltry works of the Creator, 
it should certainly have ceased to conceal itself, when its lord and author no 
longer lies hid? I ask, therefore, if it was unable to manifest itself in this 
world, how did its Lord appear in this world? If this world received its Lord, 
why was it not able to receive the created substance, unless perchance it was 
greater than its Lord? But now there arises a question about place, having 
reference both to the world above and to the God thereof. For, behold, if he has 
his own world beneath him, above the Creator, he has certainly fixed it in a 
position, the space of which was empty between his own feet and the Creator's 
head. Therefore God both Himself occupied local space, and caused the world to 
occupy local space; and this local space, too, will be greater than God and the 
world together. For in no case is that which contains not greater than that 
which is contained. And indeed we must look well to it that no small patches be 
left here and there vacant, in which some third god also may be able with a 
world of his own to foist himself in. Now, begin to reckon up your gods. There 
will be local space for a god, not only as being greater than God, but as being 
also unbegotten and unmade, and therefore eternal, and equal to God, in which 
God has ever been. Then, inasmuch as He too has fabricated a world out of some 
underlying material which is unbegotten, and unmade, and contemporaneous with 
God, just as Marcion holds of the Creator, you reduce this likewise to the 
dignity of that local space which has enclosed two gods, both God and matter. 
For matter also is a god according to the rule of Deity, being (to be sure) 
unbegotten, and unmade, and eternal. 
If, however, it was out of nothing that he made his world, this also (our 
heretic) will be obliged to predicate of the Creator, to whom he subordinates 
matter in the substance of the world. But it will be only right that he too 
should have made his world out of matter, because the same process occurred to 
him as God which lay before the Creator as equally God. And thus you may, if you 
please, reckon up so far, three gods as Marcion's,--the Maker, local space, and 
matter. Furthermore, he in like manner makes the Creator a god in local space, 
which is itself to be appraised on a precisely identical scale of dignity; and 
to Him as its lord he subordinates matter, which is notwithstanding unbegotten, 
and unmade, and by reason hereof eternal. With this matter he further associates 
evil, an unbegotten principle with an unbegotten object, an unmade with an 
unmade, and an eternal with an eternal; so here he makes a fourth God. 
Accordingly you have three substances of Deity in the higher instances, and in 
the lower ones four. When to these are added their Christs--the one which 
appeared in the time of Tiberius, the other which is promised by the 
Creator--Marcion suffers a manifest wrong from those persons who assume that he 
holds two gods, whereas he implies no less than nine. though he knows it not. 
CHAP. XVI.--MARCION ASSUMES THE EXISTENCE OF TWO GODS FROM THE ANTITHESIS 
BETWEEN THINGS VISIBLE AND THINGS INVISIBLE. THIS ANTITHETICAL PRINCIPLE IN FACT 
CHARACTERISTIC OF THE WORKS OF THE CREATOR, THE ONE GOD--MAKER OF ALL
THINGS VISIBLE AND INVISIBLE.
Since, then, that other world does not appear, nor its god either, the only 
resource left to them is to divide things into the two classes of visible and 
invisible, with two gods for their authors, and so to claim the invisible for 
their own, (the supreme) God. But who, except an heretical spirit, could ever 
bring his mind to believe that the invisible part of creation belongs to him who 
had previously displayed no visible thing, rather than to Him who, by His 
operation on the visible world, produced a belief in the invisible also, since 
it is far more 283 
reasonable to give one's assent after some samples (of a work) than after 
none? We shall see to what author even (your favourite) apostle attributes the 
invisible creation, when we come to examine him. At present (we withhold his 
testimony), for we are for the most part engaged in preparing the way, by means 
of common sense and fair arguments, for a belief in the future support of the 
Scriptures also. We affirm, then, that this diversity of things visible and 
invisible must on this ground be attributed to the Creator, even because the 
whole of His work consists of diversities--of things corporeal and incorporeal; 
of animate and inanimate; of vocal and mute of moveable and stationary; of 
productive and sterile; of arid and moist; of hot and cold. 
Man, too, is himself similarly tempered with diversity, both in his body and 
in his sensation. Some of his members are strong, others weak; some comely, 
others uncomely; some twofold, others unique; some like, others unlike. In like 
manner there is diversity also in his sensation: now joy, then anxiety; now 
love, then hatred; now anger, then calmness. Since this is the case, inasmuch as 
the whole of this creation of ours has been fashioned with a reciprocal rivalry 
amongst its several parts, the invisible ones are due to the visible, and not to 
be ascribed to any other author than Him to whom their counterparts are imputed, 
marking as they do diversity in the Creator Himself, who orders what He forbade, 
and forbids what He ordered; who also strikes and heals. Why do they take Him to 
be uniform in one class of things alone, as the Creator of visible things, and 
only them; whereas He ought to be believed to have created both the visible and 
the invisible, in just the same way as life and death, or as evil things and 
peace? And verily, if the invisible creatures are greater than the visible, 
which are in their own sphere great, so also is it fitting that the greater 
should be His to whom the great belong; because neither the great, nor indeed 
the greater, can be suitable property for one who seems to possess not even the 
smallest things. 
CHAP. XVII.--NOT ENOUGH, AS THE MARCIONITES PRETEND, THAT THE SUPREME GOD 
SHOULD RESCUE MAN; HE MUST ALSO HAVE CREATED HIM. THE EXISTENCE OF GOD PROVED BY 
HIS CREATION, A PRIOR CONSIDERATION TO HIS CHARACTER.
Pressed by these arguments, they exclaim: One work is sufficient for our god; 
he has delivered man by his supreme and most excellent goodness, which is 
preferable to (the creation of) all the locusts. What superior god is this, of 
whom it has not been possible to find any work so great as the man of the lesser 
god! Now without doubt the first thing you have to do is to prove that he 
exists, after the same manner that the existence of God must ordinarily be 
proved--by his works; and only after that by his good deeds. For the first 
question is, Whether he exists? and then, What is his character? The former is 
to be tested by his works, the other by the beneficence of them. It does not 
simply follow that he exists, because he is said to have wrought deliverance for 
man; but only after it shall have been settled that he exists, will there be 
room for saying that he has affected this liberation. And even this point also 
must have its own evidence, because it may be quite possible both that he has 
existence, and yet has not wrought the alleged deliverance. Now in that section 
of our work which concerned the question of the unknown god, two points were 
made clear enough--both that he had created nothing: and that he ought to have 
been a creator, in order to be known by his works; because, if he had existed, 
he ought to have been known, and that too from the beginning of things; for it 
was not fit that God should have lain hid. It will be necessary that I should 
revert to the very trunk of that question of the unknown god, that I may strike 
off into some of its other branches also. For it will be first of all proper to 
inquire, Why he, who afterwards brought himself into notice, did so--so late, 
and not at the very first? From creatures, with which as God he was indeed so 
closely connected (and the closer this connection was, the greater was his 
goodness), he ought never to have been hidden. For it cannot be pretended that 
there was not either any means of arriving at the knowledge of God, or a good 
reason for it, when from the beginning man was in the world, for whom the 
deliverance is now come; as was also that malevolence of the Creator, in 
opposition to which the good God has wrought the deliverance. He was therefore 
either ignorant of the good reason for and means of his own necessary 
manifestation, or doubted them; or else was either unable or unwilling to 
encounter them. All these alternatives are unworthy of God, especially the 
supreme 284 
and best. This topic, however, we shall afterwards more fully treat, with a 
condemnation of the tardy manifestation; we at present simply point it out. 
CHAP. XVIII.--NOTWITHSTANDING THEIR CONCEITS, THE GOD OF THE MARCIONITES 
FAILS IN THE VOUCHERS BOTH OF CREATED EVIDENCE AND OF ADEQUATE 
REVELATION.
Well, then, he has now advanced into notice, just when he willed, when he 
could, when the destined hour arrived. For perhaps he was hindered hitherto by 
his leading star, or some weird malignants, or Saturn in quadrature, or Mars at 
the trine. The Marcionites are very strongly addicted to astrology; nor do they 
blush to get their livelihood by help of the very stars which were made by the 
Creator (whom they depreciate). We must here also treat of the quality of the 
(new) revelation; whether Marcion's supreme god has become known in a way worthy 
of him, so as to secure the proof of his existence: and in the way of truth, so 
that he may be believed to be the very being who had been already proved to have 
been revealed in a manner worthy of his character. For things which are worthy 
of God will prove the existence of God. We maintain that God must first be known 
from nature, and afterwards authenticated by instruction: from nature by His 
works; by instruction, through His revealed announcements. Now, in a case where 
nature is excluded, no natural means (of knowledge) are furnished. He ought, 
therefore, to have carefully supplied a revelation of himself, even by 
announcements, especially as he had to be revealed in opposition to One who, 
after so many and so great works, both of creation and revealed announcement, 
had with difficulty succeeded in satisfying men's faith. In what manner, 
therefore, has the revelation been made? If by man's conjectural guesses, do not 
say that God can possibly become known in any other way than by Himself, and 
appeal not only to the standard of the Creator, but to the conditions both of 
God's greatness and man's littleness; so that man seem not by any possibility to 
be greater than God, by having somehow drawn Him out into public recognition, 
when He was Himself unwilling to become known by His own energies, although 
man's littleness has been able, according to experiments all over the world, 
more easily to fashion for itself gods, than to follow the true God whom men now 
understand by nature. As for the rest, if man shall be thus able to devise a 
god,--as Romulus did Consus, and Tatius Cloacina, and Hostilius Fear, and 
Metellus Alburnus, and a certain authority some time since Antinous,--the same 
accomplishment may be allowed to others. As for us, we have found our pilot in 
Marcion, although not a king nor an emperor. 
CHAP.XIX.--JESUS CHRIST, THE REVEALER OF THE CREATOR, COULD NOT BE THE 
SAME AS
MARCION'S GOD, WHO WAS ONLY MADE KNOWN BY THE HERETIC SOME CXV. YEARS 
AFTER
CHRIST, AND THAT, TOO, ON A PRINCIPLE UTTERLY UNSUITED TO THE TEACHING 
OF
JESUS CHRIST, I.E., THE OPPOSITION BETWEEN THE LAW AND THE GOSPELS.
Well, but our god, say the Marcionites, although he did not manifest himself 
from the beginning and by means of the creation, has yet revealed himself in 
Christ Jesus. A book will be devoted to Christ, treating of His entire state; 
for it is desirable that these subject-matters should be distinguished one from 
another, in order that they may receive a fuller and more methodical treatment. 
Meanwhile it will be sufficient if, at this stage of the question, I show--and 
that but briefly--that Christ Jesus is the revealer of none other god but the 
Creator. In the fifteenth year of Tiberius, Christ Jesus vouchsafed to come down 
from heaven, as the spirit of saving health. I cared not to inquire, indeed, in 
what particular year of the elder Antoninus. He who had so gracious a purpose 
did rather, like a pestilential sirocco, exhale this health or salvation, which 
Marcion teaches from his Pontus. Of this teacher there is no doubt that he is a 
heretic of the Antonine period, impious under the pious. Now, from Tiberius to 
Antoninus Pius, there are about 115 years and 6 1/2 months. Just such an 
interval do they place between Christ and Marcion. Inasmuch, then, as Marcion, 
as we have shown, 285 
first introduced this god to notice in the time of Antoninus, the matter 
becomes at once clear, if you are a shrewd observer. The dates already decide 
the case, that he who came to light for the first time in the reign of 
Antoninus, did not appear in that of Tiberius; in other words, that the God of 
the Antonine period was not the God of the Tiberian; and consequently, that he 
whom Marcion has plainly preached for the first time, was not revealed by Christ 
(who announced His revelation as early as the reign of Tiberius). Now, to prove 
clearly what remains of the argument, I shall draw materials from my very 
adversaries. Marcion's special and principal work is the separation of the law 
and the gospel; and his disciples will not deny that in this point they have 
their very best pretext for initiating and confirming themselves in his heresy. 
These are Marcion's Antitheses, or contradictory propositions, which aim at 
committing the gospel to a variance with the law, in order that from the 
diversity of the two documents which contain them, they may contend for a 
diversity of gods also. Since, therefore, it is this very opposition between the 
law and the gospel which has suggested that the God of the gospel is different 
from the God of the law, it is clear that, before the said separation, that god 
could not have been known who became known from the argument of the separation 
itself. He therefore could not have been revealed by Christ, who came before the 
separation, but must have been devised by Marcion, the author of the breach of 
peace between the gospel and the law. Now this peace, which had remained unhurt 
and unshaken from Christ's appearance to the time of Marcion's audacious 
doctrine, was no doubt maintained by that way of thinking, which firmly held 
that the God of both law and gospel was none other than the Creator, against 
whom after so long a time a separation has been introduced by the heretic of 
Pontus. 
CHAP.XX.--MARCION, JUSTIFYING HIS ANTITHESIS BETWEEN THE LAW AND THE 
GOSPEL BY THE CONTENTION OF ST. PAUL WITH ST. PETER, SHOWN TO HAVE 
MISTAKEN ST. PAUL'S POSITION AND ARGUMENT. MARCION'S DOCTRINE CONFUTED OUT OF 
ST. PAUL'S TEACHING, WHICH AGREES WHOLLY WITH THE CREATOR'S DECREES.
This most patent conclusion requires to be defended by us against the 
clamours of the opposite side. For they allege that Marcion did not so much 
innovate on the rule (of faith) by his separation of the law and the gospel, as 
restore it after it had been previously adulterated. O Christ, most enduring 
Lord, who didst bear so many years with this interference with Thy revelation, 
until Marcion forsooth came to Thy rescue! Now they adduce the case of Peter 
himself, and the others, who were pillars of the apostolate, as having been 
blamed by Paul for not walking uprightly, according to the truth of the 
gospel--that very Paul indeed, who, being yet in the mere rudiments of grace, 
and trembling, in short, lest he should have run or were still running in vain, 
then for the first time held intercourse with those who were apostles before 
himself. Therefore because, in the eagerness of his zeal against Judaism as a 
neophyte, he thought that there was something to be blamed in their 
conduct--even the promiscuousness of their conversation--but afterwards was 
himself to become in his practice all things to all men, that he might gain 
all,--to the Jews, as a Jew, and to them that were under the law, as under the 
law,--you would have his censure, which was merely directed against conduct 
destined to become acceptable even to their accuser, suspected of prevarication 
against God on a point of public doctrine. Touching their public doctrine, 
however, they had, as we have already said, joined hands in perfect concord, and 
had agreed also in the division of their labour in their fellowship of the 
gospel, as they had indeed in all other respects: "Whether it were I or they, so 
we preach." When, again, he mentioned "certain false brethren as having crept in 
unawares," who wished to remove the Galatians into another gospel, he himself 
shows that that adulteration of the gospel was not meant to transfer them to the 
faith of another god and christ, but rather to perpetuate the teaching of the 
law; because he blames them for maintaining circumcision, and observing times, 
and days, and months, and years, according to those Jewish ceremonies which they 
ought to have known were now abrogated, according to the new dispensation 
purposed by the Creator Himself, who of old foretold this very thing by His 
prophets. Thus He says by Isaiah: Old things have passed away. "Behold, I will 
do a new thing." And in another passage: "I will make a new covenant, not 
according to the covenant that I made with their fathers, when I brought them 
out of the land of 286 
Egypt." In like manner by Jeremiah: Make to yourselves a new covenant, 
"circumcise yourselves to the Lord, and take away the foreskins of your heart." 
It is this circumcision, therefore, and this renewal, which the apostle insisted 
on, when he forbade those ancient ceremonies concerning which their very founder 
announced that they were one day to cease; thus by Hosea: "I will also cause all 
her mirth to cease, her feast-days, her new moons, and her Sabbaths, and all her 
solemn feasts.'' So likewise by Isaiah: "The new moons, and Sabbaths, the 
calling of assemblies, I cannot away with; your holy days, and fasts, and 
feast-days, my soul hateth." Now, if even the Creator had so long before 
discarded all these things, and the apostle was now proclaiming them to be 
worthy of renunciation, the very agreement of the apostle's meaning with the 
decrees of the Creator proves that none other God was preached by the apostle 
than He whose purposes he now wished to have recognised, branding as false both 
apostles and brethren, for the express reason that they were pushing back the 
gospel of Christ the Creator from the new condition which the Creator had 
foretold, to the old one which He had discarded. 
CHAP. XXI.--ST. PAUL PREACHED NO NEW GOD, WHEN HE ANNOUNCED THE REPEAL OF 
SOME OE GOD'S ANCIENT ORDINANCES. NEVER ANY HESITATION ABOUT BELIEF IN 
THE CREATOR, AS THE GOD WHOM CHRIST REVEALED, UNTIL MARCION'S HERESY.
Now if it was with the view of preaching a new god that he was eager to 
abrogate the law of the old God, how is it that he prescribes no rule about the 
new god, but solely about the old law, if it be not because faith in the Creator 
was still to continue, and His law alone was to come to an end?--just as the 
Psalmist had declared: "Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their 
cords from us. Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing? The 
kings of the earth stand up, and the rulers take counsel together against the 
Lord, and against His Anointed." And, indeed, if another god were preached by 
Paul, there could be no doubt about the law, whether it were to be kept or not, 
because of course it would not belong to the new lord, the enemy of the law. The 
very newness and difference of the god would take away not only all question 
about the old and alien law, but even all mention of it. But the whole question, 
as it then stood, was this, that although the God of the law was the same as was 
preached in Christ, yet there was a disparagement of His law. Permanent still, 
therefore, stood faith in the Creator and in His Christ; manner of life and 
discipline alone fluctuated. Some disputed about eating idol sacrifices, others 
about the veiled dress of women, others again about marriage and divorce, and 
some even about the hope of the resurrection; but about God no one disputed. 
Now, if this question also had entered into dispute, surely it would be found in 
the apostle, and that too as a great and vital point. No doubt, after the time 
of the apostles, the truth respecting the belief of God suffered corruption, but 
it is equally certain that during the life of the apostles their teaching on 
this great article did not suffer at all; so that no other teaching will have 
the fight of being received as apostolic than that which is at the present day 
proclaimed in the churches of apostolic foundation. You will, however, find no 
church of apostolic origin but such as reposes its Christian faith in the 
Creator. But if the churches shall prove to have been corrupt from the 
beginning, where shall the pure ones be found? Will it be amongst the 
adversaries of the Creator? Show us, then, one of your churches, tracing its 
descent from an apostle, and you will have gained the day. Forasmuch then as it 
is on all accounts evident that there was from Christ down to Marcion's time no 
other God in the rule of sacred truth's than the Creator, the proof of our 
argument is sufficiently established, in which we have shown that the god of our 
heretic first became known by his separation of the gospel and the law. Our 
previous position is accordingly made good, that no god is to be believed whom 
any man has devised out of his own conceits; except indeed the man be a prophet, 
and then his own conceits would not be concerned in the matter. If Marcion, 
however, shall be able to lay claim to this inspired character, it will be 
necessary for it to be shown. There must be no doubt or paltering. For all 
heresy is thrust out by this wedge of the truth, that Christ is proved to be the 
revealer of no God else but the Creator. 
287 
CHAP. XXII.--GOD'S ATTRIBUTE OF GOODNESS CONSIDERED AS NATURAL; THE GOD OF 
MARCION FOUND WANTING HEREIN. IT CAME NOT TO MAN'S RESCUE WHEN FIRST WANTED.
But how shall (this) Antichrist be fully overthrown unless we relax our 
defence by mere prescription, and give ourselves scope for rebutting all his 
other attacks? Let us therefore next take the very person of God Himself, or 
rather His shadow or phantom, as we have it in Christ, and let Him be examined 
by that condition which makes Him superior to the Creator. And undoubtedly there 
will come to hand unmistakeable rules for examining God's goodness. My first 
point, however, iS to discover and apprehend the attribute, and then to draw it 
out into rules. Now, when I survey the subject in its aspects of time, I nowhere 
descry it from the beginning of material existences, or at the commencement of 
those causes, with which it ought to have been found, proceeding thence to do 
whatever had to be done. For there was death already, and Sin the sting of 
death, and that malignity too of the Creator, against which the goodness of the 
other god should have been ready to bring relief; falling in with this as the 
primary rule of the divine goodness (if it were to prove itself a natural 
agency), at once coming as a succour when the cause for it began. For in God all 
things should be natural and inbred, just like His own condition indeed, in 
order that they may be eternal, and so not be accounted casual and extraneous, 
and thereby temporary and wanting in eternity. In God, therefore, goodness is 
required to be both perpetual and unbroken, such as, being stored up and kept 
ready in the treasures of His natural properties, might precede its own causes 
and material developments; and if thus preceding, might underlie every first 
material cause, instead of looking at it from a distance, and standing aloof 
from it. In short, here too I must inquire, Why his goodness did not operate 
from the beginning? no less pointedly than when we inquired concerning himself, 
Why he was not revealed from the very first? Why, then, did it not? since he had 
to be revealed by his goodness if he had any existence. That God should at all 
fail in power must not be thought, much less that He should not discharge all 
His natural functions; for if these were restrained from running their course, 
they would cease to be natural. Moreover, the .nature of God Him self knows 
nothing of inactivity. Hence (His goodness) is reckoned as having a beginning, 
if it acts. It will thus be evident that He had no unwillingness to exercise His 
goodness at any time on account of His nature. Indeed, it is impossible that He 
should be unwilling because of His nature, since that so directs itself that it 
would no longer exist if it ceased to act. In Marcion's god, however, goodness 
ceased from operation at some time or other. A goodness, therefore, which could 
thus at any time have ceased its action was not natural, because with natural 
properties such cessation is incompatible. And if it shall not prove to be 
natural, it must no longer be believed to be eternal nor competent to Deity; 
because it cannot be eternal so long as, failing to be natural, it neither 
provides from the past nor guarantees for the future any means of perpetuating 
itself. Now as a fact it existed not from the beginning, and, doubtless, will 
not endure to the end. For it is possible for it to fail in existence some 
future time or other, as it has failed in some past period. Forasmuch, then, as 
the goodness of Marcion's god failed in the beginning (for he did not from the 
first deliver man), this failure must have been the effect of will rather than 
of infirmity. Now a wilful suppression of goodness will be found to have a 
malignant end in view. For what malignity is so great as to be unwilling to do 
good when one can, or to thwart what is useful, or to permit injury? The whole 
description, therefore, of Marcion's Creator will have to be transferred to his 
new god, who helped on the ruthless 
proceedings of the former by the retardation of his own goodness. For 
whosoever has it in his power to prevent the happening of a thing, is accounted 
responsible for it if it should occur. Man is condemned to death for tasting the 
fruit of one poor tree, and thence proceed sins with their penalties; and now 
all are perishing who yet never saw a single sod of Paradise. And all this your 
better god either is ignorant of, or else brooks. 
Is it that he might on this account be deemed the better, and the Creator be 
re 288 
garded as all that the worse? Even if this were his purpose he would be 
malicious enough, for both wishing to aggravate his rival's obloquy by 
permitting His (evil) works to be done, and by keeping the world harrassed by 
the wrong. What would you think of a physician who should encourage a disease by 
withholding the remedy, and prolong the danger by delaying his prescription, in 
order that his cure might be more costly and more renowned? Such must be the 
sentence to be pronounced against Marcion's god: tolerant of evil, encouraging 
wrong, wheedling about his grace, prevaricating in his goodness, which he did 
not exhibit simply on its own account, but which he must mean to exhibit purely, 
if he is good by nature and not by acquisition, if he is supremely good in 
attribute and not by discipline, if he is God from eternity and not from 
Tiberius, nay (to speak more truly), from Cerdon only and Marcion. As the case 
now stands, however, such a god as we are considering would have been more fit 
for Tiberius, that the goodness of the Divine Being might be inaugurated in the 
world under his imperial sway! 
CHAP. XXIII.--GOD'S ATTRIBUTE OF GOODNESS CONSIDERED AS RATIONAL. 
MARCION'S GOD DEFECTIVE HERE ALSO; HIS GOODNESS IRRATIONAL AND MISAPPLIED.
Here is another rule for him. All the properties of God ought to be as 
rational as they are natural. I require reason in His goodness, because nothing 
else can properly be accounted good than that which is rationally good; much 
less can goodness itself be detected in any irrationality. More easily will an 
evil thing which has something rational belonging to it be accounted good, than 
that a good thing bereft of all reasonable quality should escape being regarded 
as evil. Now I deny that the goodness of Marcion's god is rational, on this 
account first, because it proceeded to the salvation of a human creature which 
was alien to him. I am aware of the plea which they will adduce, that that is 
rather a primary and perfect goodness which is shed voluntarily and freely upon 
strangers without any obligation of friendship, on the principle that we are 
bidden to love even our enemies, such as are also on that very account strangers 
to us. Now, inasmuch as from the first he had no regard for man, a stranger to 
him from the first, he settled beforehand, by this neglect of his, that he had 
nothing to do with an alien creature. Besides, the rule of loving a stranger or 
enemy is preceded by the precept of your loving your neighbour as yourself; and 
this precept, although coming from the Creator's law, even you ought to receive, 
because, so far from being abrogated by Christ, it has rather been confirmed by 
Him. For you are bidden to love your enemy and the stranger, in order that you 
may love your neighbour the better. The requirement of the undue is an 
augmentation of the due benevolence. But the due precedes the undue, as the 
principal quality, and more worthy of the other, for its attendant and 
companion. Since, therefore, the first step in the reasonableness of the divine 
goodness is that it displays itself on its proper object in righteousness, and 
only at its second stage on an alien object by a redundant righteousness over 
and above that of scribes and Pharisees, how comes it to pass that the second is 
attributed to him who fails in the first, not having man for his proper object, 
and who makes his goodness on this very account defective? Moreover, how could a 
defective benevolence, which had no proper object whereon to expend itself, 
overflow on an alien one? Clear up the first step, and then vindicate the next. 
Nothing can be claimed as rational without order, much less can reason itself 
dispense with order in any one. Suppose now the divine goodness begin at the 
second stage of its rational operation, that is to say, on the stranger, this 
second stage will not be consistent in rationality if it be impaired in any way 
else. For only then will even the second stage of goodness, that which is 
displayed towards the stranger, be accounted rational, when it operates without 
wrong to him who has the first claim. It is righteousness which before 
everything else makes all goodness rational. It will thus be rational in its 
principal stage, when manifested on its proper object, if it be righteous. And 
thus, in like manner, it will be able to appear rational, when displayed towards 
the stranger, if it be not unrighteous. But what sort of goodness is that which 
is manifested in wrong, and that 289 
in behalf of an alien creature? For peradventure a benevolence, even when 
operating injuriously, might be deemed to some extent rational, if exerted for 
one of our own house and home. By what rule, however, can an unjust benevolence, 
displayed on behalf of a stranger, to whom not even an honest one is 
legitimately due, be defended as a rational one? For what is more unrighteous, 
more unjust, more dishonest, than so to benefit an alien slave as to take him 
away from his master, claim him as the property of another, and suborn him 
against his master's life; and all this, to make the matter more iniquitous 
still whilst he is yet living in his master's house and on his master's garner, 
and still trembling beneath his stripes? Such a deliverer, 
I had almost said kidnapper, would even meet with condemnation in the world. 
Now, no other than this is the character of Marcion's god, swooping upon an 
alien world, snatching away man from his God, the son from his father, the pupil 
from his tutor, the servant from his master--to make him impious to his God, 
undutiful to his father, ungrateful to his tutor, worthless to his master. If, 
now, the rational benevolence makes man such, what sort of being prithee would 
the irrational make of him? None I should think more shameless than him who is 
baptized to his god in water which belongs to another, who stretches out his 
hands to his god towards a heaven which is another's, who kneels to his god on 
ground which is another's, offers his thanksgivings to his god over bread which 
belongs to another, and distributes by way of alms and charity, for the sake of 
his god, gifts which belong to another God. Who, then, is that so good a god of 
theirs, that man through him becomes evil; so propitious, too, as to incense 
against man that other God who is, indeed, his own proper Lord? 
CHAP. XXIV.--THE GOODNESS OF MARCION'S GOD ONLY IMPERFECTLY MANIFESTED; IT 
SAVES BUT FEW, AND THE SOULS MERELY OF THESE. MARCION'S CONTEMPT OF THE BODY
ABSURD.
But as God is eternal and rational, so, I think, He is perfect in all things. 
"Be ye perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." Prove, then, 
that the goodness of your god also is a perfect one. That it is indeed imperfect 
has been already sufficiently shown, since it is found to be neither natural nor 
rational. The same conclusion, however, shall now be made clear by another 
method; it is not simply imperfect, but actually feeble, weak, and exhausted, 
failing to embrace the full number of its material objects, and not manifesting 
itself in them all. For all are not put into a state of salvation by it; but the 
Creator's subjects, both Jew and Christian, are all excepted. Now, when the 
greater part thus perish, how can that goodness be defended as a perfect one 
which is inoperative in most cases, is somewhat only in few, naught in many, 
succumbs to perdition, and is a partner with destruction? And if so many shall 
miss salvation, it will not be with goodness, but with malignity, that the 
greater perfection will lie. For as it is the operation of goodness which brings 
salvation, so is it malevolence which thwarts it. Since, however, this goodness) 
saves but few, and so rather leans to the alternative of not saving, it will 
show itself to greater perfection by not interposing help than by helping. Now, 
you will not be able to attribute goodness (to your god) in reference to the 
Creator, (if accompanied with) failure towards all. For whomsoever you call in 
to judge the question, it is as a dispenser of goodness, if so be such a title 
can be made out, and not as a squanderer thereof, as you claim your god to be, 
that you must submit the divine character for determination. So long, then, as 
you prefer your god to the Creator on the simple ground of his goodness, and 
since he professes to have this attribute as solely and wholly his own, he ought 
not to have been wanting in it to any one. However, I do not now wish to prove 
that Marcion's god is imperfect in goodness because of the perdition of the 
greater number. I am content to illustrate 290 
this imperfection by the fact that even those whom he saves are found to 
possess but an imperfect salvation--that is, they are saved only so far as the 
soul is concerned, but lost in their body, which, according to him, does not 
rise again. Now, whence comes this halving of salvation, if not from a failure 
of goodness? What could have been a better proof of a perfect goodness, than the 
recovery of the whole man to salvation? Totally damned by the Creator, he should 
have been totally restored by the most merciful god. I rather think that by 
Marcion's rule the body is baptized, is deprived of marriage, is cruelly 
tortured in confession. But although sins are attributed to the body, yet they 
are preceded by the guilty concupiscence of the soul; nay, the first motion of 
sin must be ascribed to the soul, to which the flesh acts in the capacity of a 
servant. By and by, when freed from the soul, the flesh sins no more. So that in 
this matter goodness is unjust, and likewise imperfect, in that it leaves to 
destruction the more harmless substance, which sins rather by compliance than in 
will. Now, although Christ put not on the verity of the flesh, as your heresy is 
pleased to assume, He still vouchsafed to take upon Him the semblance thereof. 
Surely, therefore, some regard was due to it from Him, because of this His 
reigned assumption of it. Besides, what else is man than flesh, since no doubt 
it was the corporeal rather than the spiritual element from which the Author of 
man's nature gave him his designation? "And the LORD God made man of the dust of 
the ground," not of spiritual essence; this afterwards came from the divine 
afflatus: "and man became a living soul." What, then, is man? Made, no doubt of 
it, of the dust; and God placed him in paradise, because He moulded him, not 
breathed him, into being--a fabric of flesh, not of spirit. Now, this being the 
case, with what face will you contend for the perfect character of that goodness 
which did not fail in some one particular only of man's deliverance, but in its 
general capacity? If that is a plenary grace and a substantial mercy which 
brings salvation to the soul alone, this were the better life which we now enjoy 
whole and entire; whereas to rise again but in part will be a chastisement, not 
a liberation. The proof of the perfect goodness is, that man, after his rescue, 
should be delivered from the domicile and power of the malignant deity unto the 
protection of the most good and merciful God. Poor dupe of Marcion, fever is 
hard upon you; and your painful flesh produces a crop of all sorts of briers and 
thorns. Nor is it only to the Creator's thunderbolts that you lie exposed, or to 
wars, and pestilences, and His other heavier strokes, but even to His creeping 
insects. In what respect do you suppose yourself liberated from His kingdom when 
His flies are still creeping upon your face? If your deliverance lies in the 
future, why not also in the present, that it may be perfectly wrought? Far 
different is our condition in the sight of Him who is the Author, the Judge, the 
injured Head of our race! You display Him as a merely good God; but you are 
unable to prove that He is perfectly good, because you are not by Him perfectly 
delivered. 
CHAP. XXV.--GOD IS NOT A BEING OF SIMPLE GOODNESS; OTHER ATTRIBUTES BELONG 
TO HIM. MARCION SHOWS INCONSISTENCY IN THE PORTRAITURE OF HIS SIMPLY GOOD 
AND EMOTIONLESS GOD.
As touching this question of goodness, we have in these outlines of our 
argument shown it to be in no way compatible with Deity,--as being neither 
natural, nor rational, nor perfect, but wrong, and unjust, and unworthy of the 
very name of goodness,--because, as far as the congruity of the divine character 
is concerned, it cannot indeed be fitting that that Being should be regarded as 
God who is alleged to have such a goodness, and that not in a modified way, but 
simply and solely. For it is, furthermore, at this point quite open to 
discussion, whether God ought to be regarded as a Being of simple goodness, to 
the exclusion of all those other attributes, 
sensations, and affections, which the Marcionites indeed transfer from their 
god to the Creator, and which we acknowledge to be worthy characteristics of the 
Creator too, but only because we consider Him to be God. Well, then, on this 
ground we shall deny him to be God in whom all things are not to be found which 
befit the Divine Being. If (Marcion) chose to take any one of the school of 
Epicurus, and entitle him God in the name of Christ, on the ground 291 
that what is happy and incorruptible can bring no trouble either on itself or 
anything else (for Marcion, while poring over this opinion of the divine 
indifference, has removed from him all the severity and energy of the judicial 
character), it was his duty to have developed his conceptions into some 
imperturbable and listless god (and then what could he have had in common with 
Christ, who occasioned trouble both to the Jews by what He taught, and to 
Himself by what He felt?), or else to have admitted that he was possessed of the 
same emotions as others (and in such case what would he have had to do with 
Epicurus, who was no friend to either him or Christians?). For that a being who 
in ages past was in a quiescent state, not caring to communicate any knowledge 
of himself by any work all the while, should come after so long a time to 
entertain a concern for man's salvation, of course by his own will,--did he not 
by this very fact become susceptible of the impulse of a new volition, so as 
palpably to be open to all other emotions? But what volition is unaccompanied 
with the spur of desire? Who wishes for what he desires not? Moreover, care will 
be another companion of the will. For who will wish for any object and desire to 
have it, without also caring to obtain it? When, therefore, (Marcion's god) felt 
both a will and a desire for man's salvation, he certainly occasioned some 
concern and trouble both to himself and others. This Marcion's theory suggests, 
though Epicurus demurs. For he raised up an adversary against himself in that 
very thing against which his will and desire, and care were directed,--whether 
it were sin or death,--and more especially in their Tyrant and Lord, the Creator 
of man. Again, nothing will ever run its course without hostile rivalry, which 
shall not (itself) be without a hostile aspect. In fact, when willing, desiring, 
and caring to deliver man, (Marcion's god) already in the very act encounters a 
rival, both in Him from whom He effects the deliverance (for of course he means 
the liberation to be an opposition to Him), and also in those things from which 
the deliverance is wrought (the intended liberation being to the advantage of 
some other things). For it must needs be, that upon rivalry its own ancillary 
passions will be in attendance, against whatever objects its emulation is 
directed: anger, discord, hatred, disdain, indignation, spleen, loathing, 
displeasure. Now, since all these emotions are present to rivalry; since, 
moreover, the rivalry which arises in liberating man excites them; and since, 
again, this deliverance of man is an operation of goodness, it follows that this 
goodness avails nothing without its endowments, that is to say, without those 
sensations and affections whereby it carries out its purpose against the 
Creator; so that it cannot even in this be ruled to be irrational, as if it were 
wanting in proper sensations and affections. These points we shall have to 
insist on much more fully, when we come to plead the cause of the Creator, where 
they will also incur our condemnation. 
CHAP. XXVI.--IN THE ATTRIBUTE OF JUSTICE, MARCION'S GOD IS HOPELESSLY WEAK 
AND UNGODLIKE. HE DISLIKES EVIL, BUT DOES NOT PUNISH ITS PERPETRATION.
But it is here sufficient that the extreme perversity of their god is proved 
from the mere exposition of his lonely goodness, in which they refuse to ascribe 
to him such emotions of mind as they censure in the Creator. Now, if he is 
susceptible of no feeling of rivalry, or anger, or damage, or injury, as one who 
refrains from exercising judicial power, I cannot tell how any system of 
discipline--and that, too, a plenary one--can be consistent in him. For how is 
it possible that he should issue commands, if he does not mean to execute them; 
or forbid sins, if he intends not to punish them, but rather to decline the 
functions of the judge, as being a stranger to all notions of severity and 
judicial chastisement? For why does he forbid the commission of that which he 
punishes not when perpetrated? It would have been far more right, if he had not 
forbidden what he meant not to punish, than that he should punish what he had 
not forbidden. Nay, it was his duty even to have permitted what he was about to 
prohibit in so unreasonable a way, as to annex no penalty to the offence. For 
even now that is tacitly permitted which is forbidden without any infliction of 
vengeance. Besides, he only forbids the commission of that which he does not 
like to have done. Most listless, therefore, is he, since he takes no offence at 
the doing of what he dislikes to be done, although dis 292 
pleasure ought to be the companion of his violated will. Now, if he is 
offended, he ought to be angry; if angry, he ought to inflict punishment. For 
such infliction is the just fruit of anger, and anger is the debt of 
displeasure, and displeasure (as I have said) is the companion of a violated 
will. However, he inflicts no punishment; therefore he takes no offence. 
He takes no offence, therefore his will is not wronged, although that is done 
which he was unwilling to have done; and the transgression is now committed with 
the acquiescence of his will, because whatever offends not the will is not 
committed against the will. Now, if this is to be the principle of the divine 
virtue or goodness, to be unwilling indeed that a thing be done and to prohibit 
it, and yet not be moved by its commission, we then allege that he has been 
moved already when he declared his unwillingness; and that it is vain for him 
not to be moved by the accomplishment of a thing after being moved at the 
possibility thereof, when he willed it not to be done. For he prohibited it by 
his not willing it. Did he not therefore do a judicial act, when he declared his 
unwillingness, and consequent prohibition of it? For he judged that it ought not 
to be done, and he deliberately declared that it should be forbidden. 
Consequently by this time even he performs the part of a judge. If it is 
unbecoming for God to discharge a judicial function, or at least only so far 
becoming that He may merely declare His unwillingness, and pronounce His 
prohibition, then He may not even punish for an offence when it is committed. 
Now, nothing is so unworthy of the Divine Being as not to execute retribution on 
what He has disliked and forbidden. 
First, He owes the infliction of chastisement to whatever sentence or law He 
promulges, for the vindication of His authority and the maintenance of 
submission to it; secondly, because hostile opposition is inevitable to what He 
has disliked to be done, and by that dislike forbidden. Moreover, it would be a 
more unworthy course for God to spare the evil-doer than to punish him, 
especially in the most good and holy God, who is not otherwise fully good than 
as the enemy of evil, and that to such a degree as to display His love of good 
by the hatred of evil, and to fulfil His defence of the former by the 
extirpation of the latter. 
CHAP. XXVII.--DANGEROUS EFFECTS TO RELIGION AND MORALITY OF THE 
DOCTRINE OF SO WEAK A GOD.
Again, he plainly judges evil by not willing it, and condemns it by 
prohibiting it; while, on the other hand, he acquits it by not avenging it, and 
lets it go free by not punishing it. What a prevaricator of truth is such a god! 
What a dissembler with his own decision! Afraid to condemn what he really 
condemns, afraid to hate what he does not love, permitting that to be done which 
he does not allow, choosing to indicate what he dislikes rather than deeply 
examine it! This will turn out an imaginary goodness, a phantom of discipline, 
perfunctory in duty, careless in sin. Listen, ye sinners; and ye who have not 
yet come to this, hear, that you may attain to such a pass! A better god has 
been discovered, who never takes offence, is never angry, never inflicts 
punishment, who has prepared no fire in hell, no gnashing of teeth in the outer 
darkness! He is purely and simply good. He indeed forbids all delinquency, but 
only in word. He is in you, if you are willing to pay him homage, for the sake 
of appearances, that you may seem to honour God; for your fear he does not want. 
And so satisfied are the Marcionites with such pretences, that they have no fear 
of their god at all. They say it is only a bad man who will be feared, a good 
man will be loved. Foolish man, do you say that he whom you call Lord ought not 
to be feared, whilst the very title you give him indicates a power which must 
itself be feared? But how are you going to love, without some fear that you do 
not love? Surely (such a god) is neither your Father, towards whom your love for 
duty's sake should be consistent with fear because of His power; nor your proper 
Lord, whom you should love for His humanity and fear as your teacher. Kidnappers 
indeed are loved after this fashion, but they are not feared. For power will not 
be feared, except it be just and regular, although it may possibly be loved even 
when corrupt: for it is by allurement that it stands, not by authority; by 
flattery, not by proper influence. And what can be more direct flattery than not 
to punish sins? Come, then, if you do not fear God as being good, why do you not 
boil over into every kind of lust, and so realize that which is, I believe, the 
main enjoyment of life to all who fear not God? Why do you not frequent the 
customary pleasures of the maddening circus, the bloodthirsty arena, and 293 
the lascivious theatre? Why in persecutions also do you not, when the censer 
is presented, at once redeem your life by the denial of your faith? God forbid, 
you say with redoubted emphasis. So you do fear sin, and by your fear prove that 
He is an object of fear Who forbids the sin. This is quite a different matter 
from that obsequious homage you pay to the god whom you do not fear, which is 
identical in perversity indeed to is own conduct, in prohibiting a thing without 
annexing the sanction of punishment. Still more vainly do they act, who when 
asked, What is to become of every sinner in that great day? reply, that he is to 
be cast away out of sight. Is not even this a question of judicial 
determination? He is adjudged to deserve rejection, and that by a sentence of 
condemnation; unless the sinner is cast away forsooth for his salvation, that 
even a leniency like this may fall in consistently with the character of your 
most good and excellent god! And what will it be to be cast away, but to lose 
that which a man was in the way of obtaining, were it not for his 
rejection--that is, his salvation? Therefore his being cast away will involve 
the forfeiture of salvation; and this sentence cannot possibly be passed upon 
him, except by an angry and offended authority, who is also the punisher of 
sin--that is, by a judge. 
CHAP. XXVIII.--THIS PERVERSE DOCTRINE DEPRIVES BAPTISM OF ALL ITS GRACE. 
IF MARCION BE RIGHT, THE SACRAMENT WOULD CONFER NO REMISSION OF SINS, NO 
REGENERATION, NO GIFT OF THE SPIRIT.
And what will happen to him after he is cast away? He will, they say, be 
thrown into the Creator's fire. Then has no remedial provision been made (by 
their god) for the purpose of banishing those that sin against him, without 
resorting to the cruel measure of delivering them over to the Creator? And what 
will the Creator then do? I suppose He will prepare for them a hell doubly 
charged with brimstone, as for blasphemers against Himself; except indeed their 
god in his zeal, as perhaps might happen, should show clemency to his rival's 
revolted subjects. Oh, what a god is this! everywhere perverse; nowhere 
rational; in all cases vain; and therefore a nonentity!--in whose state, and 
condition, and nature, and every appointment, I see no coherence and 
consistency; no, not even in the very sacrament of his faith! For what end does 
baptism serve, according to him? If the remission of sins, how will he make it 
evident that he remits sins, when he affords no evidence that he retains them? 
Because he would retain them, if he performed the functions of a judge. If 
deliverance from death, how could he deliver from death, who has not delivered 
to death? For he must have delivered the sinner to death, if he had from the 
beginning condemned sin. If the regeneration of man, how can he regenerate, who 
has never generated? For the repetition of an act is impossible to him, by whom 
nothing any time has been ever done. If the bestowal of the Holy Ghost, how will 
he bestow the Spirit, who did not at first impart the life? For the life is in a 
sense the supplement of the Spirit. He therefore seals man, who had never been 
unsealed in respect of him; washes man, who had never been defiled so far as he 
was concerned; 
and into this sacrament of salvation wholly plunges that flesh which is 
beyond the pale of salvation! No farmer will irrigate ground that will yield him 
no fruit in return, except he be as stupid as Marcion's god. Why then impose 
sanctity upon our most infirm and most unworthy flesh, either as a burden or as 
a glory? What shall I say, too, of the uselessness of a discipline which 
sanctifies what is already sanctified? Why burden the infirm, or glorify the 
unworthy? Why not remunerate with salvation what it burdens or else glorifies? 
Why keep back from a work its due reward, by not recompensing the flesh with 
salvation? Why even permit the honour of sanctity in it to die? 
CHAP. XXIX.--MARCION FORBIDS MARRIAGE. TERTULLIAN ELOQUENTLY DEFENDS IT AS 
HOLY, AND CAREFULLY DISCRIMINATES BETWEEN MARCION'S DOCTRINE AND HIS OWN
MONTANISM.
The flesh is not, according to Marcion, immersed in the water of the 
sacrament, unless it be in virginity, widowhood, or celibacy, or has purchased 
by divorce a title to baptism, as if even generative impotents did not all 
receive their flesh from nuptial union. Now, such a scheme as this must no doubt 
involve the proscription of marriage. Let us see, then, whether it be a just 
one: not as if we 294 
aimed at destroying the happiness of sanctity, as do certain Nicolaitans in 
their maintenance of lust and luxury, but as those who have come to the 
knowledge of sanctity, and pursue it and prefer it, without detriment, however, 
to marriage; not as if we superseded a bad thing by a good, but only a good 
thing by a better. For we do not reject marriage, but simply refrain from it. 
Nor do we prescribe sanctity as the rule, but only recommend it, observing it as 
a good, yea, even the better state, if each man uses it carefully according to 
his ability; but at the same time earnestly vindicating marriage, whenever 
hostile attacks are made against it is a polluted thing, to the disparagement of 
the Creator. For He bestowed His blessing on matrimony also, as on an honourable 
estate, for the increase of the human race; as He did indeed on the whole of His 
creation, for wholesome and good uses. Meats and drinks are not on this account 
to be condemned, because, when served up with too exquisite a daintiness, they 
conduce to gluttony; nor is raiment to be blamed, because, when too costlily 
adorned, it becomes inflated with vanity and pride. So, on the same principle, 
the estate of matrimony is not to be refused, because, when enjoyed without 
moderation, it is fanned into a voluptuous flame. There is a great difference 
between a cause and a fault, between a state and its excess. Consequently it is 
not an institution of this nature that is to be blamed, but the extravagant use 
of it; according to the judgment of its founder Himself, who not only said, "Be 
fruitful, and multiply," but also, "Thou shalt not commit adultery," and, "Thou 
shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife;" and who threatened with death the 
unchaste, sacrilegious, and monstrous abomination both of adultery and unnatural 
sin with man and beast. Now, if any limitation is set to marrying--such as the 
spiritual rule, which prescribes but one marriage under the Christian obedience, 
maintained by the authority of the Paraclete,--it will be His prerogative to fix 
the limit Who had once been diffuse in His permission; His to gather, Who once 
scattered; His to cut down the tree, Who planted it; His to reap the harvest, 
Who sowed the seed; His to declare, "It remaineth that they who have wives be as 
though they had none," Who once said, "Be fruitful, and multiply;" His the end 
to Whom belonged the beginning. Nevertheless, the tree is not cut down as if it 
deserved blame; nor is the corn reaped, as if it were to be condemned,--but 
simply because their time is come. So likewise the state of matrimony does not 
require the hook and scythe of sanctity, as if it were evil; but as being ripe 
for its discharge, and in readiness for that sanctity which will in the long run 
bring it a plenteous crop by its reaping. For this leads me to remark of 
Marcion's god, that in reproaching marriage as an evil and unchaste thing, he is 
really prejudicing the cause of that very sanctity which he seems to serve. For 
he destroys the material on which it subsists; if there is to be no marriage, 
there is no sanctity. All proof of abstinence is lost when excess is impossible; 
for sundry things have thus their evidence in their contraries. Just as 
"strength is made perfect in weakness," so likewise is continence made manifest 
by the permission to marry. Who indeed will be called continent, if that be 
taken away which gives him the opportunity of pursuing a life of continence? 
What room for temperance in appetite does famine give? What repudiation of 
ambitious projects does poverty afford? What bridling of lust can the eunuch 
merit? To put a complete stop, however, to the sowing of the human race, may, 
for aught I know, be quite consistent for Marcion's most good and excellent god. 
For how could he desire the salvation of man, whom he forbids to be born, when 
he takes away that institution from which his birth arises? How will he find any 
one on whom to set the mark of his goodness, when he suffers him not to come 
into existence? 
How is it possible to love him whose origin he hates? Perhaps he is afraid of 
a redundant population, lest he should be weary in liberating so many; lest he 
should have to make many heretics; lest Marcionite parents should produce too 
many noble disciples of Marcion. The cruelty of Pharaoh, which slew its victims 
at their birth, will not prove to be more inhuman in comparison. For while he 
destroyed lives, our heretic's god refuses to give them: the one removes from 
life, the other admits none to it. There is no difference in either as to their 
homicide--man is slain by both of them; by the former just after birth, by the 
latter as yet unborn. Thanks should we owe thee, thou 295 
god of our heretic, hadst thou only checked the dispensation of the Creator 
in uniting male and female; for from such a union indeed has thy Marcion been 
born! Enough; however, of Marcion's god, who is shown to have absolutely no 
existence at all, both by our definitions of the one only Godhead, and the 
condition of his attributes. The whole course, however, of this little work aims 
directly at this conclusion. If, therefore, we seem to anybody to have achieved 
but little result as yet, let him reserve his expectations, until we examine the 
very Scripture which Marcion quotes. 

