
Tertullian












TERTULLIAN

APOLOGY.
 [TRANSLATED BY THE REV. S. THELWALL, LATE SCHOLAR OF CHRIST'S COLLEGE, CANTAB.]
THE APOLOGY. CHAP. I. 
 
Rulers of the Roman Empire, if, seated for the administration of 
 justice on your lofty tribunal, under the gaze of every eye, and 
 occupying there all but the highest position in the state, you may 
 not openly inquire into and sift before the world the real truth in 
 regard to the charges made against the Christians; if in this case 
 alone you are afraid or ashamed to exercise your authority in making 
 public inquiry with the carefulness which becomes justice; if, 
 finally, the extreme severities inflicted on our people in recently 
 private judgments, stand in the way of our being permitted to defend 
 ourselves before you, you cannot surely forbid the Truth to reach 
 your ears by the secret pathway of a noiseless book. She has no 
 appeals to make to you in regard of her condition, for that does not 
 excite her wonder. She knows that she is but a sojourner on the 
 earth, and that among strangers she naturally finds foes; and more 
 than this, that her origin, her dwelling-place, her hope, her 
 recompense, her honours, are above. One thing, meanwhile, she 
 anxiously desires of earthly rulers--not to be condemned unknown. 
 What harm can it do to the laws, supreme in their domain, to give 
 her a hearing? Nay, for that part of it, will not their absolute 
 supremacy be more conspicuous in their condemning her, even after 
 she has made her plea? But if, unheard, sentence is pronounced 
 against her, besides the odium of an unjust deed, you will incur the 
 merited suspicion of doing it with some idea that it is unjust, as 
 not wishing to hear what you may not be able to hear and condemn. We 
 lay this before you as the first ground on which we urge that your 
 hatred to the name of Christian is unjust. And the very reason which 
 seems to excuse this injustice (I mean ignorance) at once aggravates 
 and convicts it. For what is there more unfair than to hate a thing 
 of which you know nothing, even though it deserve to be hated? 
 Hatred is only merited when it is known to be merited. But without 
 that knowledge, whence is its justice to be vindicated? for that is 
 to be proved, not from the mere fact that an aversion exists, but 
 from acquaintance with the subject. When men, then, give way to a 
 dislike simply because they are entirely ignorant of the nature of 
 the thing disliked, why may it not be precisely the very sort of 
 thing they should not dislike? So we maintain that they are both 
 ignorant while they hate us, and hate us unrighteously while they 
 continue in ignorance, the one thing being the result of the other 
 either way of it. The proof of their ignorance, at once condemning 
 and excusing their injustice, is this, that those who once hated 
 Christianity because they knew nothing about it, no sooner come to 
 know it than they all lay down at once their enmity. From being its 
 haters they become its disciples. By simply getting acquainted with 
 it, they begin now to hate what they had formerly been, and to 
 profess what they had formerly hated; and their numbers are as great 
 as are laid to our charge. The outcry is that the State is filled 
 with Christians--that they are in the fields, in the citadels, in 
 the islands: they make lamentation, as for some calamity, that both 
 sexes, every age and condition, even high rank, are passing over to 
 the profession of the Christian faith; and yet for all, their minds 
 are not awakened to the thought of some good they have failed to 
 notice in it. They must not allow any truer suspicions to cross 
 their minds; they have no 18 
 
desire to make closer trial. Here alone the curiosity of human 
 nature slumbers. They like to be ignorant, though to others the 
 knowledge has been bliss. Anacharsis reproved the rude venturing to 
 criticise the cultured; how much more this judging of those who 
 know, by men who are entirely ignorant, might he have denounced X 
 Because they already dislike, they want to know no more. Thus they 
 prejudge that of which they are ignorant to be such, that, if they 
 came to know it, it could no longer be the object of their aversion; 
 since, if inquiry finds nothing worthy of dislike, it is certainly 
 proper to cease from an unjust dislike, while if its bad character 
 comes plainly out, instead of the detestation entertained for it 
 being thus diminished, a stronger reason for perseverance in that 
 detestation is obtained, even under the authority of justice itself. 
 But, says one, a thing is not good merely because multitudes go over 
 to it; for how many have the bent of their nature towards whatever 
 is bad! how many go astray into ways of error! It is undoubted. Yet 
 a thing that is thoroughly evil, not even those whom it carries away 
 venture to defend as good. Nature throws a veil either of fear or 
 shame over all evil. For instance, you find that criminals are eager 
 to conceal themselves, avoid appearing in public, are in trepidation 
 when they are caught, deny their guilt, when they are accused; even 
 when they are put to the rack, they do not easily or always confess; 
 when there is no doubt about their condemnation, they grieve for 
 what they have done. In their self-communings they admit their being 
 impelled by sinful dispositions, but they lay the blame either on 
 fate or on the stars. They are unwilling to acknowledge that the 
 thing is theirs, because they own that it is wicked. But what is 
 there like this in the Christian's case? The only shame or regret he 
 feels, is at not having been a Christian earlier. If he is pointed 
 out, he glories in it; if he is accused, he offers no defence; 
 interrogated, he makes voluntary confession; condemned he renders 
 thanks. What sort of evil thing is this, which wants all the 
 ordinary peculiarities of evil--fear, shame, subterfuge, penitence, 
 lamenting? What! is that a crime in which the criminal rejoices? to 
 be accused of which is his ardent wish, to be punished for which is 
 his felicity? You cannot call it madness, you who stand convicted of 
 knowing nothing of the matter. 
 
CHAP. II.
If, again, it is certain that we are the most wicked of men, why 
 do you treat us so differently from our fellows, that is, from other 
 criminals,it being only fair that the same crime should get the same 
 treatment? When the charges made against us are made against others, 
 they are permitted to make use both of their own lips and of hired 
 pleaders to show their innocence. They have full opportunity of 
 answer and debate; in fact, it is against the law to condemn anybody 
 undefended and unheard. Christians alone are forbidden to say 
 anything in exculpation of themselves, in defence of the truth, to 
 help the judge to a righteous decision; all that is cared about is 
 having what the public hatred demands--the confession of the name, 
 not examination of the charge: while in your ordinary judicial 
 investigations, on a man's confession of the crime of murder, or 
 sacrilege, or incest, or treason, to take the points of which we are 
 accused, you are not content to proceed at once to sentence,--you do 
 not take that step till you thoroughly examine the circumstances of 
 the confession--what is the real character of the deed, how often, 
 where, in what way, when he has done it, who were privy to it, and 
 who actually took part with him in it. Nothing like this is done in 
 our case, though the falsehoods disseminated about us ought to have 
 the same sifting, that it might be found how many murdered children 
 each of us had tasted; how many incests each of us had shrouded in 
 darkness; what cooks, what dogs had been witness of our deeds. Oh, 
 how great the glory of the ruler who should bring to light some 
 Christian who had devoured a hundred infants! But, instead of that, 
 we find that even inquiry in regard to our case is forbidden. For 
 the younger Pliny, when he was ruler of a province, having condemned 
 some Christians to death, and driven some from their stedfastness, 
 being still annoyed by their great numbers, at last sought the 
 advice of Trajan, the reigning emperor, as to what he was to do with 
 the rest, explaining to his master that, except an obstinate 
 disinclination to offer sacrifices, he found in the religious 
 services nothing but meetings at early morning for singing hymns to 
 Christ and God, and sealing home their way of life by a united 
 pledge to be faithful to their religion, forbidding murder, 
 adultery, dishonesty, and other crimes. Upon this Trajan wrote back 
 that Christians were by no means to be sought after; but if they 
 were brought before him, they should be punished. 
 
19 
 
O miserable deliverance,--under the necessities of the case, a 
 self-contradiction! It forbids them to be sought after as innocent, 
 and it commands them to be punished as guilty. It is at once 
 merciful and cruel; it, passes by, and it punishes. Why dost thou 
 play a game of evasion upon thyself, O Judgment? If thou condemnest, 
 why dost thou not also inquire. If thou does not inquire, why dost 
 thou not also absolve? Military stations are distributed through all 
 the provinces for tracking robbers. Against traitors and public foes 
 every man is a soldier; search is made even for their confederates 
 and accessories. The Christian alone must not be sought, though he 
 may be brought and accused before the judge; as if a search had any 
 other end than that in view And so you condemn the man for whom 
 nobody wished a search to be made when he is presented to you, and 
 who even now does not deserve punishment, I suppose, because of his 
 guilt, but because, though forbidden to be sought, he was found. And 
 then, too, you do not in that case deal with us in the ordinary way 
 of judicial proceedings against offenders; for, in the case of 
 others denying, you apply the torture to make them 
 confess--Christians alone you torture, to make them deny; whereas, 
 if we were guilty of any crime, we should be sure to deny it, and 
 you with your tortures would force us to confession. Nor indeed 
 should you hold that our crimes require no i such investigation 
 merely on .the ground that you are convinced by our confession of 
 the name that the deeds were done,--you who are daily wont, though 
 you know well enough what murder is, none the less to extract from 
 the confessed murderer a full account of how the crime was 
 perpetrated. So that with all the greater perversity you act, when, 
 holding our crimes proved by our confession of the name of Christ, 
 you drive us by torture to fall from our confession, that, 
 repudiating the name, we may in like manner repudiate also the 
 crimes with which, from that same confession, you had assumed that 
 we were chargeable. I suppose, though you believe us to be the worst 
 of mankind, you do not wish us to perish. For thus, no doubt, you 
 are in the habit of bidding the murderer deny, and of ordering the 
 man guilty of sacrilege to the rack if he persevere in his 
 acknowledgment! Is that the way of it? But if thus you do not, deal 
 with us as criminals, you declare us thereby innocent, when as 
 innocent you are anxious that we do not persevere in a confession 
 which you know will bring on us a condemnation of necessity, not of 
 justice, at your hands. "I am a Christian," the man cries out. He 
 tells you what he is; you wish to hear from him what he is not. 
 Occupying your place of authority to extort the truth, you do your 
 utmost to get lies from us. "I am," he says, "that which you ask me 
 if I am. Why do you torture me to sin? I confess, and you put me to 
 the rack. What would you do if I denied? Certainly you give no ready 
 credence to others when they deny. When we deny, you believe at 
 once. Let this perversity of yours lead you to suspect that there is 
 some hidden power in the case under whose influence you act against 
 the forms, against the nature of public justice, even against the 
 very laws themselves. For, unless I am greatly mistaken, the laws 
 enjoin offenders to be searched out, and not to be hidden away. They 
 lay it down that persons who own a crime are to be condemned, not 
 acquitted. The decrees of the senate, the commands of your chiefs, 
 lay this clearly down. The power of which you are servants is a 
 civil, not a tyrannical domination. Among tyrants, indeed, torments 
 used to be inflicted even as punishments: with you they are 
 mitigated to a means of questioning alone. Keep to your law in these 
 as necessary till confession is obtained; and if the torture is 
 anticipated by confession, there will be no occasion for it: 
 sentence should be passed; the criminal should be given over to the 
 penalty which is his due, not released. Accordingly, no one is eager 
 for the acquittal of the guilty; it is not right to desire that, and 
 so no one is ever compelled to deny. Well, you think the Christian a 
 man of every crime, an enemy of the gods, of the emperor, of the 
 laws, of good morals, of all nature; yet you compel him to deny, 
 that you may acquit him, which without him denial you could not do. 
 You play fast and loose with the laws. You wish him to deny his 
 guilt, that you may, even against his will, bring him out blameless 
 and free from all guilt in reference to the past! Whence is this 
 strange perversity on your part? How is it you do not reflect that a 
 spontaneous confession is greatly more worthy of credit than a 
 compelled denial; or consider whether, when compelled to deny, a 
 man's denial may not be in good faith, and whether acquitted, he may 
 not, then and there, as soon as the trial is over, laugh at your 
 hostility, a Christian as much as ever? Seeing, then, that in 
 everything you deal differently with us than with other criminals, 
 bent upon the one object of taking from us our name (indeed, it is 
 ours no more if we do what Christians never do), it is made 
 perfectly clear that there is no crime of any kind in the case, but 
 merely a name which a certain system, ever working 20 
 
against the truth, pursues with its enmity, doing this chiefly 
 with the object of securing that men may have no desire to know for 
 certain what they know for certain they are entirely ignorant of. 
 Hence, too, it is that they believe about us things of which they 
 have no proof, and they are disinclined to have them looked into, 
 lest the charges, they would rather take on trust, are all proved to 
 have no foundation, that the name so hostile to that rival 
 power--its crimes presumed, not proved--may be condemned simply on 
 its own confession. So we are put to the torture if we confess, and 
 we are punished if we persevere, and if we deny we are acquitted, 
 because all the contention is about a name. Finally, why do you read 
 out of your tablet-lists that such a man is a Christian? Why not 
 also that he is a murderer? And if a Christian is a murderer, why 
 not guilty, too, of incest, or any other vile thing you believe of 
 us? In our case alone you are either ashamed or unwilling to mention 
 the very names of our crimes-If to be called a "Christian" does not 
 imply any crime, the name is surely very hateful, when that of 
 itself is made a crime. 
 
CHAP. III.
What are we to think of it, that most people so blindly knock 
 their heads against the hatred of the Christian name; that when they 
 bear favourable testimony to any one, they mingle with it abuse of 
 the name he bears? "A good man," says one, "is Gaius Seius, only 
 that he is a Christian." So another, "I am astonished that a wise 
 man like Lucius should have suddenly become a Christian." Nobody 
 thinks it needful to consider whether Gaius is not good and Lucius 
 wise, on this very account that he is a Christian; or a Christian, 
 for the reason that he is wise and good. They praise what they know, 
 they abuse what they are ignorant of, and they inspire their 
 knowledge with their ignorance; though in fairness you should rather 
 judge of what is unknown from what is known, than what is known from 
 what is unknown. Others, in the case of persons whom, before they 
 took the name of Christian, they had known as loose, and vile, and 
 wicked, put on them a brand from the very thing which they praise. 
 In the blindness of their hatred, they fall foul of their own 
 approving judgment! "What a woman she was! how wanton! how gay! What 
 a youth he was! how profligate! how libidinous!--they have become 
 Christians!" So the hated name is given to a reformation of 
 character. Some even barter away their comforts for that hatred, 
 content to bear injury, if they are kept free at home from the 
 object of their bitter enmity. The wife, now chaste, the husband, 
 now no longer jealous, casts out of his house; the son, now 
 obedient, the father, who used to be so patient, disinherits; the 
 servant, now faithful, the master, once so mild, commands away from 
 his presence; it is a high offence for any one to be reformed by the 
 detested name. Goodness is of less value than hatred of Christians. 
 Well now, if there is this dislike of the name, what blame can you 
 attach to names? What accusation can you bring against mere 
 designations, save that something in the word sounds either 
 barbarous, or unlucky, or scurrilous, or unchaste? But Christian, so 
 far as the meaning of the word is concerned, is derived from 
 anointing. Yes, and even when it is wrongly pronounced by you 
 "Chrestianus" (for you do not even know accurately the name you 
 hate), it comes from sweetness and benignity. You hate, therefore, 
 in the guiltless, even a guiltless name. But the special ground of 
 dislike to the sect is, that it bears the name of its Founder. Is 
 there anything new in a religious sect getting for its followers a 
 designation from its master? Are not the philosophers called from 
 the founders of their systems--Platonists, Epicureans, Pythagoreans? 
 Are not the Stoics and Academics so called also from the places in 
 which they assembled and stationed themselves? and are not 
 physicians named from Erasistratus, grammarians from Aristarchus, 
 cooks even from Apicius? And yet the bearing of the name, 
 transmitted from the original institutor with whatever he has 
 instituted, offends no one. No doubt, if it is proved that the sect 
 is a bad one, and so its founder bad as well, that will prove that 
 the name is bad and deserves our aversion, in respect of the 
 character both of the sect and its author. Before, therefore, taking 
 up a dislike to the name, it behoved you to consider the sect in the 
 author, or the author in the sect. But now, without any sifting and 
 knowledge of either, the mere name is made matter of accusation, the 
 mere name is assailed, and a sound alone brings condemnation on a 
 sect and its author both, while of both you are ignorant, because 
 they have such and such a designation, not because they are 
 convicted of anything wrong. 
 
CHAP. IV.
And so, having made these remarks as it were by way of preface, 
 that I might show in its true colours the injustice of the public 
 hatred against us, I shall now take my stand on the plea of our 
 blamelessness; and I shall not only refute the things which are 
 objected 21 
 
to us, but I shall also retort them on the objectors, that in 
 this way all may know that Christians are free from the very crimes 
 they are so well aware prevail among themselves, that they may at 
 the same time be put to the blush for their accusations against 
 us,--accusations I shall not say of the worst of men against the 
 best, but now, as they will have it, against those who are only 
 their fellows in sin. We shall reply to the accusation of all the 
 various crimes we are said to be guilty of in secret, such as we 
 find them committing in the light of day, and as being guilty of 
 which we are held to be wicked, senseless, worthy of punishment, 
 deserving of ridicule. But since, when our truth meets you 
 successfully at all points, the authority of the laws as a last 
 resort is set up against it, so that it is either said that their 
 determinations are absolutely conclusive, or the necessity of 
 obedience is, however unwillingly, preferred to the truth, I shall 
 first, in this matter of the laws grapple with you as with their 
 chosen protectors. Now first, when you sternly lay it down in your 
 sentences, "It is not lawful for you to exist," and with 
 unhesitating rigour you enjoin this to be carried out, you exhibit 
 the violence and unjust domination of mere tyranny, if you deny the 
 thing to be lawful, simply on the ground that you wish it to be 
 unlawful, not because it ought to be. But if you would have it 
 unlawful because it ought not to be lawful, without doubt that 
 should have no permission of law which does harm; and on this 
 ground, in fact, it is already determined that whatever is 
 beneficial is legitimate. Well, if I have found what your law 
 prohibits to be good, as one who has arrived at such a previous 
 opinion, has it not lost its power to debar me from it, though that 
 very thing, if it were evil, it would justly forbid to me? If your 
 law has gone wrong, it is of human origin, I think; it has not 
 fallen from heaven. Is it wonderful that man should err in making a 
 law, or come to his senses in rejecting it? Did not the 
 Lacedaemonians amend the laws of Lycurgus himself, thereby 
 inflicting such pain on their author that he shut himself up, and 
 doomed himself to death by starvation? Are you not yourselves every 
 day, in your efforts to illumine the darkness of antiquity, cutting 
 and hewing with the new axes of imperial rescripts and edicts, that 
 whole ancient and rugged forest of your laws? Has not Severus, that 
 most resolute of rulers, but yesterday repealed the ridiculous 
 Papian laws which compelled people to have children before the 
 Julian laws allow matrimony to be contracted, and that though they 
 have the authority of age upon their side? There were laws, too, in 
 old times, that parties against whom a decision had been given might 
 be cut in pieces by their creditors; however, by common consent that 
 cruelty was afterwards erased from the statutes, and the capital 
 penalty turned into a brand of shame. By adopting the plan of 
 confiscating a debtor's goods, it was sought rather to pour the 
 blood in blushes over his face than to pour it out. How many laws 
 lie hidden out of sight which still require to be reformed! For it 
 is neither the number of their years nor the dignity of their maker 
 that commends them, but simply that they are just; and therefore, 
 when their injustice is recognized, they are deservedly condemned, 
 even though they condemn. Why speak we of them as unjust? nay, if 
 they punish mere names, we may well call them irrational. But if 
 they punish acts, why in our case do they punish acts solely on the 
 ground of a name, while in others they must have them proved not 
 from the name, but from the wrong done? I am a practiser of incest 
 (so they say); why do they not inquire into it? I am an 
 infant-killer; why do they not apply the torture to get from me the 
 truth? I am guilty of crimes against the gods, against the Caesars; 
 why am I, who am able to clear myself, not allowed to be heard on my 
 own behalf? No law forbids the sifting of the crimes which it 
 prohibits, for a judge never inflicts a righteous vengeance if he is 
 not well assured that a crime has been committed; nor does a citizen 
 render a true subjection to the law, if he does not know the nature 
 of the thing on which the punishment is inflicted. It is not enough 
 that a law is just, nor that the judge should be convinced of its 
 justice; those from whom obedience is expected should have that 
 conviction too. Nay, a law lies under strong suspicions which does 
 not care to have itself tried and approved: it is a positively 
 wicked law, if, unproved, it tyrannizes over men. 
 
CHAP. V.
To say a word about the origin of laws of the kind to which we 
 now refer, there was an old decree that no god should be consecrated 
 by the emperor till first approved by the senate. Marcus AEmilius 
 had experience of this in reference to his god Alburnus. And this, 
 too, makes for our case, that among you divinity is allotted at the 
 judgment of human beings. Unless gods give satisfaction to men, 
 there will be no deification for them: the god will have to 
 propitiate the man. Ti 22 
 
berius accordingly, in whose days the Christian name made its 
 entry into the world, having himself received intelligence from 
 Palestine of events which had clearly shown the truth of Christ's 
 divinity, brought the matter before the senate, with his own 
 decision in favour of Christ. The senate, because it had not given 
 the approval itself, rejected his proposal. Caesar held to his 
 opinion, threatening wrath against all accusers of the Christians. 
 Consult your histories; you will there find that Nero was the first 
 who assailed with the imperial sword the Christian sect, making 
 profess then especially at Rome. But we glory in having our 
 condemnation hallowed by the hostility of such a wretch. For any one 
 who knows him, can understand that not except as being of singular 
 excellence did anything bring on it Nero's condemnation. Domitian, 
 too, a man of Nero's type in cruelty, tried his hand at persecution; 
 but as he had something of the human in him, he soon put an end to 
 what he had begun, even restoring again those whom he had banished. 
 Such as these have always been our persecutors,--men unjust, 
 impious, base, of whom even you yourselves have no good to say, the 
 sufferers under whose sentences you have been wont to restore. But 
 among so many princes from that time to the present day, with 
 anything of divine and human wisdom in them, point out a single 
 persecutor of the Christian name. So far from that, we, on the 
 contrary, bring before you one who was their protector, as you will 
 see by examining the letters of Marcus Aurelius, that most grave of 
 emperors, in which he bears his testimony that that Germanic drought 
 was removed by the rains obtained through the prayers of the 
 Christians who chanced to be fighting under him. And as he did not 
 by public law remove from Christians their legal disabilities, yet 
 in another way he put them openly aside, even adding a sentence of 
 condemnation, and that of greater severity, against their accusers. 
 What sort of laws are these which the impious alone execute against 
 us--and the unjust, the vile, the bloody, the senseless, the insane? 
 which Trajan to some extent made naught by forbidding Christians to 
 be sought after; which neither a Hadrian, though fond of searching 
 into all things strange and new, nor a Vespasian, though the 
 subjugator of the Jews, nor a Pius, nor a Verus, ever enforced? It 
 should surely be judged more natural for bad men to be eradicated by 
 good princes as being their natural enemies, than by those of a 
 spirit kindred with their own. 
 
CHAP. VI.
I would now have these most religious protectors and vindicators 
 of the laws and institutions of their fathers, tell me, in regard to 
 their own fidelity and the honour, and submission they themselves 
 show to ancestral institutions, if they have departed from 
 nothing--if they have in nothing gone out of the old paths--if they 
 have not put aside whatsoever is most useful and necessary as rules 
 of a virtuous life. What has become of the laws repressing expensive 
 and ostentatious ways of living? which forbade more than a hundred 
 asses to be expended on a supper, and more than one fowl to be set 
 on the table at a time, and that not a fatted one; which expelled a 
 patrician from the senate on the serious ground, as it was counted, 
 of aspiring to be too great, because he had acquired ten pounds of 
 silver; which put down the theatres as quickly as they arose to 
 debauch the manners of the people; which did not permit the insignia 
 of official dignities or of noble birth to be rashly or with 
 impunity usurped? For I see the Centenarian suppers must now bear 
 the name, not from the hundred asses, but from the hundred sestertia 
 expended on them; and that mines of silver are made into dishes (it 
 were little if this applied only to senators, and not to freedmen or 
 even mere whip-spoilers). I see, too, that neither is a single 
 theatre enough, nor are theatres unsheltered: no doubt it was that 
 immodest pleasure might not be torpid in the wintertime, the 
 Lacedaemonians invented their woollen cloaks for the plays. I see 
 now no difference between the dress of matrons and prostitutes. In 
 regard to women, indeed, those laws of your fathers, which used to 
 be such an encouragement to modesty and sobriety, have also fallen 
 into desuetude, when a woman had yet known no gold upon her save on 
 the finger, which, with the bridal ring, her husband had sacredly 
 pledged to himself; when the abstinence of women from wine was 
 carried so far, that a matron, for opening the compartments of a 
 wine cellar, was starved to death by her friends,--while in the 
 times of Romulus, for merely tasting wine, Mecenius killed his wife, 
 and suffered nothing for the deed. With reference to this also, it 
 was the custom of women to kiss their relatives, that they might be 
 detected by their breath. Where is that happiness of married life, 
 ever so desirable, which distinguished our earlier manners, and as 
 the result of which for about 600 years there was not among us a 
 single 23 
 
divorce? Now, women have every member of the body heavy laden 
 with gold; wine-bibbing is so common among them, that the kiss is 
 never offered with their will; and as for divorce, they long for it 
 as though it were the natural consequence of marriage. The laws, 
 too, your fathers in their wisdom had enacted concerning the very 
 gods themselves, you their most loyal children have rescinded, The 
 consuls, by the authority of the senate, banished Father Bacchus and 
 his mysteries not merely from the city, but from the whole of Italy. 
 The consuls Piso and Gabinius, no Christians surely, forbade 
 Serapis, and Isis, and Arpocrates, with their dogheaded friend, 
 admission into the Capitol--in the act casting them out from the 
 assembly of the gods--overthrow their altars, and expelled them from 
 the country, being anxious to prevent the vices of their base and 
 lascivious religion from spreading. These, you have restored, and 
 conferred highest honours on them. What has come to your 
 religion--of the veneration due by you to your ancestors? In your 
 dress, in your food, in your style of life, in your opinions, and 
 last of all in your very speech, you have renounced your 
 progenitors. You are always praising antiquity, and yet every day 
 you have novelties in your way of living. From your having failed to 
 maintain what you should, you make it clear, that, while you abandon 
 the good ways of your fathers, you retain and guard the things you 
 ought not. Yet the very tradition of your fathers, which you still 
 seem so faithfully to defend, and in which you find your principal 
 matter of accusation against the Christians--I mean zeal in the 
 worship of the gods, the point in which antiquity has mainly 
 erred--although you have rebuilt the altars of Serapis, now a Roman 
 deity, and to Bacchus, now become a god of Italy, you offer up your 
 orgies,--I shall in its proper place show that you despise, neglect, 
 and overthrow, casting entirely aside the authority of the men of 
 old. I go on meantime to reply to that infamous charge of secret 
 crimes, clearing my way to things of open day. 
 
CHAP. VII.
Monsters of wickedness, we are accused of observing a holy rite 
 in which we kill a little child and then eat it; in which, after the 
 feast, we practise incest, the dogs--our pimps, forsooth, 
 overturning the lights and getting us the shamelessness of darkness 
 for our impious lusts. This is what is constantly laid to our 
 charge, and yet you take no pains to elicit the truth of what we 
 have been so long accused. Either bring, then, the matter to the 
 light of day if you believe it, or give it no credit as having never 
 inquired into it. On the ground of your double dealing, we are 
 entitled to lay it down to you that there is no reality in the thing 
 which you dare not expiscate. You impose on the executioner, in the 
 case of Christians, a duty the very opposite of expiscation: he is 
 not to make them confess what they do, but to make them deny what 
 they are. We date the origin of our religion, as we have mentioned 
 before, from the reign of Tiberius. Truth and the hatred of truth 
 come into our world together. As soon as truth appears, it is 
 regarded as an enemy. It has as many foes as there are strangers to 
 it: the Jews, as was to be looked for, from a spirit of rivalry; the 
 soldiers, out of a desire to extort money; our very domestics, by 
 their nature. We are daily beset by foes, we are daily betrayed; we 
 are oftentimes surprised in our meetings and congregations. 
 
Whoever happened withal upon an infant wailing, according to the 
 common story? 
 
Whoever kept for the judge, just as he had found them, the gory 
 mouths of Cyclops and Sirens? Whoever found any traces of 
 uncleanness in their wives? 
 
Where is the man who, when he had discovered such atrocities, 
 concealed them; or, in the act of dragging the culprits' before the 
 judge, was bribed into silence? If we always keep our secrets, when 
 were our proceedings made known to the world? Nay, by whom could 
 they be made known? Not, surely, by the guilty parties themselves; 
 even from the very idea of the thing, the fealty of silence being 
 ever due to mysteries. The Samothracian and Eleusinian make no 
 disclosures--how much more will silence be kept in regard to such as 
 are sure, in their unveiling, to call forth punishment from man at 
 once, while wrath divine is kept in store for the future? If, then, 
 Christians are not themselves the publishers of their crime, it 
 follows of course it must be strangers. And whence have they their 
 knowledge, when it is also a universal custom in religious 
 initiations to keep the profane aloof, and to beware of witnesses, 
 unless it be that those who are so wicked have less fear than their 
 neighbors? Every one knows what sort of thing rumour is. It is one 
 of your own sayings, that "among all evils, none flies so fast as 
 rumour." Why is rumour such an evil thing? Is it because it is 
 fleet? Is it because it carries information? Or is it because it is 
 in the highest degree mendacious?--a thing, not even when it brings 
 some truth to us, without a taint of falsehood, either detracting, 
 or adding, or changing from the simple fact? Nay 24 
 
more, it is the very law of its being to continue only while it 
 lies, and to live but so long as there is no proof; for when the 
 proof is given, it ceases to exist; and, as having done its work of 
 merely spreading a report, it delivers up a fact, and is henceforth 
 held to be a fact, and called a fact. And then no one says, for 
 instance, "They say that it took place at Rome," or, "There is a 
 rumour that he has obtained a province," but, "He has got a 
 province," and, "It took place at Rome." Rumour, the very 
 designation of uncertainty, has no place when a thing is certain. 
 Does any but a fool put his trust in it? For a wise man never 
 believes the dubious. Everybody knows, however zealously it is 
 spread abroad, on whatever strength of asseveration it rests, that 
 some time or other from some one fountain it has its origin. Thence 
 it must creep into propagating tongues and ears; and a small seminal 
 blemish so darkens all the rest of the story, that no one can 
 determine whether the lips, from which it first came forth, planted 
 the seed of falsehood, as often happens, from a spirit of 
 opposition, or from a suspicious judgment, or from a confirmed, nay, 
 in the case of some, an inborn, delight in lying. It is well that 
 time brings all to light, as your proverbs and sayings testify, by a 
 provision of Nature, which has so appointed things that nothing long 
 is hidden, even though rumour has not disseminated it. It is just 
 then as it should be, that fame for so long a period has been alone 
 aware of the crimes of Christians. This is the witness you bring 
 against us--one that has never been able to prove the accusation it 
 some time or other sent abroad, and at last by mere continuance made 
 into a settled opinion in the world; so that I confidently appeal to 
 Nature herself, ever true, against those who groundlessly hold that 
 such things are to be credited. 
 
CHAP. VIII.
See now, we set before you the reward of these enormities. They 
 give promise of eternal life. Hold it meanwhile as your own belief. 
 I ask you, then, whether, so believing, you think it worth attaining 
 with a conscience such as you will have. Come, plunge your knife 
 into the babe, enemy of none, accused of none, child of all; or if 
 that is another's work, simply take your place beside a human being 
 dying before he has really lived, await the departure of the lately 
 given soul, receive the fresh young blood, saturate your bread with 
 it, freely partake. The while as you recline at table, take note of 
 the places which your mother and your sister occupy; mark them well, 
 so that when the dog-made darkness has fallen on you, you may make 
 no mistake, for you will be guilty of a crime--unless you perpetrate 
 a deed of incest. Initiated and sealed into things like these, you 
 have life everlasting. Tell me, I pray you, is eternity worth it? If 
 it is not, then these things are not to be credited. Even although 
 you had the belief, I deny the will; and even if you had the will, I 
 deny the possibility. Why then can others do it, if you cannot? why 
 cannot you, if others can? I suppose we are of a different 
 nature--are we Cynopae or Sciapodes? You are a man yourself as well 
 as the Christian: if you cannot do it, you ought not to believe it 
 of others, for a Christian is a man as well as you. But the 
 ignorant, forsooth, are deceived and imposed on. They were quite 
 unaware of anything of the kind being imputed to Christians, or they 
 would certainly have looked into it for themselves, and searched the 
 matter out. Instead of that, it is the custom for persons wishing 
 initiation into sacred rites, I think, to go first of all to the 
 master of them, that he may explain what preparations are to be 
 made. Then, in this case, no doubt he would say, "You must have a 
 child still of tender age, that knows not what it is to die, and can 
 smile under thy knife; bread, too, to collect the gushing blood; in 
 addition to these, candlesticks, and lamps, and dogs--with tid-bits 
 to draw them on to the extinguishing of the lights: above all 
 things, you will require to bring your mother and your sister with 
 you." But what if mother and sister are unwilling? or if there be 
 neither the one nor the other? What if there are Christians with no 
 Christian relatives? He will not be counted, I suppose, a true 
 follower of Christ, who has not a brother or a son. And what now, if 
 these things are all in store for them without their knowledge? At 
 least afterwards they come to know them; and they bear with them, 
 and pardon them. They fear, it may be said, lest they have to pay 
 for it if they let the secret out: nay, but they will rather in that 
 case have every claim to protection; they will even prefer, one 
 might think, dying by their own hand, to living under the burden of 
 such a dreadful knowledge. Admit that they have this fear; yet why 
 do they still persevere? For it is plain enough that you will have 
 no desire to continue what you would never have been, if you had had 
 previous knowledge of it. 
 
CHAP. IX.
That I may refute more thoroughly these charges, I will show that 
 in part openly, in 25 
 
part secretly, practices prevail among you which have led you 
 perhaps to credit similar things about us. Children were openly 
 sacrificed in Africa to Saturn as lately as the proconsulship of 
 Tiberius, who exposed to public gaze the priests suspended on the 
 sacred trees overshadowing their temple--so many crosses on which 
 the punishment which justice craved overtook their crimes, as the 
 soldiers of our country still can testify who did that very work for 
 that proconsul. And even now that sacred. crime still continues to 
 be done in secret. It is not only Christians, you see, who despise 
 you; for all that you do there is neither any crime thoroughly and 
 abidingly eradicated, nor does any of your gods reform his ways. 
 When Saturn did not spare his own children, he was not likely to 
 spare the children of others; whom indeed the very parents 
 themselves were in the habit of offering, gladly responding to the 
 call which was made on them, and keeping the little ones pleased on 
 the occasion, that they might not die in tears. At the same time, 
 there is a vast difference between homicide and parricide. A more 
 advanced age was sacrificed to Mercury in Gaul. I hand over the 
 Tauric fables to their own theatres. Why, even in that most 
 religious city of the pious descendants of AEneas, there is a 
 certain Jupiter whom in their games they lave with human blood. It 
 is the blood of a beast-fighter, you say. Is it less, because of 
 that, the blood of a man? Or is it viler blood because it is from 
 the veins of a wicked man? At any rate it is shed in murder. O Jove, 
 thyself a Christian, and in truth only son of thy father in his 
 cruelty! But in regard to child murder, as it does not matter 
 whether it is committed for a sacred object, or merely at one's own 
 self-impulse--although there is a great difference, as we have said, 
 between parricide and homicide--I shall turn to the people 
 generally. How many, think you, of those crowding around and gaping 
 for Christian blood,--how many even of your rulers, notable for 
 their justice to you and for their severe measures against us, may I 
 charge in their own consciences with the sin of putting their 
 offspring to death? As to any difference t in the kind of murder, it 
 is certainly the more cruel way to kill by drowning, or by exposure 
 to cold and hunger and dogs. A maturer age has always preferred 
 death by the sword. In our case, murder being once for all 
 forbidden, we may not destroy even the foetus in the womb, while as 
 yet the human being derives blood from other parts of the body for 
 its sustenance. To hinder a birth is merely a speedier man-killing; 
 nor does it matter whether you take away a life that is born, or 
 destroy one that is coming to the birth. That is a man which is 
 going to be one; you have the fruit already in its seed. As to meals 
 of blood and such tragic dishes, read--I am not sure where it is 
 told (it is in Herodotus, I 
 
think)--how blood taken from the arms, and tasted by both 
 parties, has been the treaty bond among some nations. I am not sure 
 what it was that was tasted in the time of Catiline. They say, too, 
 that among some Scythian tribes the dead are eaten by their friends. 
 But I am going far from home. At this day, among ourselves, blood 
 consecrated to Bellona, blood drawn from a punctured thigh and then 
 partaken of, seals initiation into the rites of that goddess. 
 
Those, too, who at the gladiator shows, for the cure of epilepsy, 
 quaff with greedy thirst the blood of criminals slain in the arena, 
 as it flows fresh from the wound, and then rush off--to whom do they 
 belong? those, also, who make meals on the flesh of wild beasts at 
 the place of combat--who have keen appetites for bear and stag? That 
 bear in the struggle was bedewed with the blood of the man whom it 
 lacerated: that stag rolled itself in the gladiator's gore. The 
 entrails of the very bears, loaded with as yet undigested human 
 viscera, are in great request. And you have men rifting up man-fed 
 flesh? If you partake of food like this, how do your repasts differ 
 from those you accuse us Christians of? And do those, who, with 
 savage lust, seize on human bodies, do less because they devour the 
 living? Have they less the pollution of human blood on them because 
 they only lick up what is to turn into blood? 
 
They make meals, it is plain, not so much of infants, as of 
 grown-up men. 
 
Blush for your vile ways before the Christians, who have not even 
 the blood of animals at their meals of simple and natural food; who 
 abstain from things strangled and that die a natural death, for no 
 other reason than that they may not contract pollution, so much as 
 from blood secreted in the viscera. To clench the matter with a 
 single example, you tempt Christians with sausages of blood, just 
 because you are perfectly aware that the thing by which you thus try 
 to get them to transgress they hold unlawful. And how unreasonable 
 it is to believe that those, of whom you are convinced that they 
 regard with horror the idea of tasting the blood of oxen, are eager 
 after blood of men; unless, mayhap, you have 26 
 
tried it, and found it sweeter to the taste! Nay, in fact, there 
 is here a test you should apply to discover Christians, as well as 
 the fire-pan and the censer. They should be proved by their appetite 
 for human blood, as well as by their refusal to offer sacrifice; 
 just as otherwise they should be affirmed to be free of Christianity 
 by their refusal to taste of blood, as by their sacrificing; and 
 there would be no want of blood of men, amply supplied as that would 
 be in the trial and condemnation of prisoners. Then who are more 
 given to the crime of incest than those who have enjoyed the 
 instruction of Jupiter himself? Ctesias tells us that the Persians 
 have illicit intercourse with their mothers. The Macedonians, too, 
 are suspected on this point; for on first hearing the tragedy of 
 OEdipus they made mirth of the incest-doer's grief, exclaiming, 
 hlaune eis thn mhtera. Even now reflect 
 what opportunity there is for mistakes leading to incestuous 
 comminglings--your promiscuous looseness supplying the materials. 
 You first of all expose your children, that they may be taken up by 
 any compassionate passer-by, to whom they are quite unknown; or you 
 give them away, to be adopted by those who will do better to them 
 the part of parents. Well, some time or other, all memory of the 
 alienated progeny must be lost; and when once a mistake has been 
 made, the transmission of incest thence will still go on--the race 
 and the crime creeping on together. Then, further, wherever you 
 are--at home, abroad, over the seas--your lust is an attendant, 
 whose general indulgence, or even its indulgence in the most limited 
 scale, may easily and unwittingly anywhere beget children, so that 
 in this way a progeny scattered about in the commerce of life may 
 have intercourse with those who are their own kin, and have no 
 notion that there is any incest in the case. A persevering and 
 stedfast chastity has protected us from anything like this: keeping 
 as we do from adulteries and all post-matrimonial unfaithfulness, we 
 are not exposed to incestuous mishaps. Some of us, making matters 
 still more secure, beat away from them entirely the power of sensual 
 sin, by a virgin continence, still boys in this respect when they 
 are old. If you would but take notice that such sins as I have 
 mentioned prevail among you, that would lead you to see that they 
 have no existence among Christians. The same eyes would tell you of 
 both facts. But the two blindnesses are apt to go together; so that 
 those who do not see what is, think they see what is not. I shall 
 show it to be so in everything. But now let me speak of matters 
 which are more dear. 
 
CHAP. X.
"You do not worship the gods," you say; " and you do not offer 
 sacrifices for the emperors." Well, we do not offer sacrifice for 
 others, for the same reason that we do not for ourselves,--namely, 
 that your gods are not at all the objects of our worship. So we are 
 accused of sacrilege and treason. This is the chief ground of charge 
 against us--nay, it is the sum-total of our offending; and it is 
 worthy then of being inquired into, if neither prejudice nor 
 injustice be the judge, the one of which has no idea of discovering 
 the truth, and the other simply and at once rejects it. We do not 
 worship your gods, because we know that there are no such beings. 
 This, therefore, is what you should do: you should call on us to 
 demonstrate their non-existence, and thereby prove that they have no 
 claim to adoration; for only if your gods were truly so, would there 
 be any obligation to render divine homage to them. And punishment 
 even were due to Christians, if it were made plain that those to 
 whom they refused all worship were indeed divine. But you say, They 
 are gods. 
 
We protest and appeal from yourselves to your knowledge; let that 
 judge us; let that condemn us, if it can deny that all these gods of 
 yours were but men. 
 
If even it venture to deny that, it will be confuted by its own 
 books of antiquities, from which it has got its information about 
 them, bearing witness to this day, as they plainly do, both of the 
 cities in which they were born, and the countries in which they have 
 left traces of their exploits, as well as where also they are proved 
 to have been buried. Shall I now, therefore, go over them one by 
 one, so numerous and so various, new and old, barbarian, 
 Grecian,Roman, foreign, captive and adopted, private and common, 
 male and female, rural and urban, naval and military? It were 
 useless even to hunt out all their names: so I may content myself 
 with a compend; and this not for your information, but that you may 
 have what you know brought to your recollection, for undoubtedly you 
 act as if you had forgotten all about them. No one of your gods is 
 earlier than Saturn: from him you trace all your deities, even those 
 of higher rank and better known. What, then, can be proved of the 
 first, will apply to those that follow. So far, then, as books give 
 us information, neither the Greek Diodorus or Thallus, neither 
 Cassius Severus or Cornelius Nepos, nor any writer upon sacred 
 antiquities, have ventured to say that Saturn was any but a man: so 
 far as the question depends on facts, I find none more trustworthy 
 than those 27 
 
--that in Italy itself we have the country in which, after many 
 expeditions, and after having partaken of Attic hospitalities, 
 Saturn settled, obtaining cordial welcome from Janus, or, as the 
 Salii will have it, Janis. The mountain on which he dwelt was called 
 Saturnius; the city he founded is called Saturnia to this day; last 
 of all, the whole of Italy, after having borne the name of Oenotria, 
 was called Saturnia from him. He first gave you the art of writing, 
 and a stamped coinage, and thence it is he presides over the public 
 treasury. But if Saturn were a man, he had undoubtedly a human 
 origin; and having a human origin, he was not the offspring of 
 heaven and earth. As his parents were unknown, it was not unnatural 
 that he should be spoken of as the son of those elements from which 
 we might all seem to spring. For who does not speak of heaven and 
 earth as father and mother, in a sort of way of veneration and 
 honour? or from the custom which prevails among us of saying that 
 persons of whom we have no knowledge, or who make a sudden 
 appearance, have fallen from the skies? In this way it came about 
 that Saturn, everywhere a sudden and unlooked-for guest, got 
 everywhere the name of the Heaven-born. or even the common folk call 
 persons whose stock is unknown, sons of earth. I say nothing of how 
 men in these rude times were wont to act, when they were impressed 
 by the look of any stranger happening to appear among them, as 
 though it were divine, since even at this day men of culture make 
 gods of those whom, a day or two before, they acknowledged to be 
 dead men by their public mourning for them. Let these notices of 
 Saturn, brief as they are, suffice. It will thus also be proved that 
 Jupiter is as certainly a man, as from a man he sprung; and that one 
 after another the whole swarm is mortal like the primal stock. 
 
CHAP. XI.
And since, as you dare not deny that these deities of yours once 
 were men, you have taken it on you to assert that they were made 
 gods after their decease, let us consider what necessity there was 
 for this. In the first place, you must concede the existence of one 
 higher God--a certain wholesale dealer in divinity, who has made 
 gods of men. For they could neither have assumed a divinity which 
 was not theirs, nor could any but one himself possessing it have 
 conferred it on them. If there was no one to make gods, it is vain 
 to, dream of gods being made when thus you have no god-maker. Most 
 certainly, if they could have deified themselves, with a higher 
 state at their command, they never would have been men. If, then, 
 there be one who is able to make gods, I turn back to an examination 
 of any reason there may be for making gods at all; and I find no 
 other reason than this, that the great God has need of their 
 ministrations and aids in performing the offices of Deity. But first 
 it is an unworthy idea that He should need the help of a man, and in 
 fact a dead man, when, if He was to be in want of this assistance 
 from the dead, He might more fittingly have created some one a god 
 at the beginning. Nor do I see any place for his action. For this 
 entire world-mass--whether self-existent and uncreated, as 
 Pythagoras maintains, or brought into being by a creator's hands, as 
 Plato hold--was manifestly, once for all in its original 
 construction, disposed, and furnished, and ordered, and supplied 
 with a government of perfect wisdom. That cannot be imperfect which 
 has made all perfect. There was nothing waiting on for Saturn and 
 his race to do. Men will make fools of themselves if they refuse to 
 believe that from the very first ram poured down from the sky, and 
 stars gleamed, and light shone, and thunders roared, and Jove 
 himself dreaded the lightnings you put in his hands; that in like 
 manner before Bacchus, and Ceres, and Minerva, nay before the first 
 man, whoever that was, every kind of fruit burst forth plentifully 
 from the bosom of the earth, for nothing provided for the support 
 and sustenance of man could be introduced after his entrance on the 
 stage of being. Accordingly, these necessaries of life are said to 
 have been discovered, not created. But the thing you discover 
 existed before; and that which had a pre-existence must be regarded 
 as belonging not to him who discovered it, hut to him who made it, 
 for of course it had a being before it could be found. But if, on 
 account of his being the discoverer of the vine, Bacchus is raised 
 to godship, Lucullus, who first introduced the cherry from Pontus 
 into Italy, has not been fairly dealt with; for as the discoverer of 
 a new fruit, he has not, as though he were its creator, been awarded 
 divine honours. Wherefore, if the universe existed from the 
 beginning, thoroughly furnished with its system working under 
 certain laws for the performance of its functions, there is, in this 
 respect, an entire absence of all reason for electing humanity to 
 divinity; for the positions and powers which you have assigned to 
 your deities have been from the beginning precisely what they would 
 have been, although you had never deified them. But you turn to 
 another reason, telling us that the conferring 28 
 
of deity was a way of rewarding worth. And hence you grant, I 
 conclude, that the god-making God is of transcendent 
 righteousness,--one who will neither rashly, improperly; nor 
 needlessly bestow a reward so great. I would have you then consider 
 whether the merits of your deities are of a kind to have raised them 
 to the heavens, and not rather to have sunk them down into lowest 
 depths of Tartarus,--the place which you regard, with many, as the 
 prison-house of infernal punishments. For into this dread place are 
 wont to be cast all who offend against filial piety, and such as are 
 guilty of incest with sisters, and seducers of wives, and ravishers 
 of virgins, and boy-polluters,and men of furious tempers, and 
 murderers, and thieves, and deceivers; all, in short, who tread in 
 the footsteps of your gods, not one of whom you can prove free from 
 crime or vice, save by denying that they had ever a human existence. 
 But as you cannot deny that, you have those foul blots also as an 
 added reason for not believing that they were made gods afterwards. 
 For if you rule for the very purpose of punishing such deeds; if 
 every virtuous man among you rejects all correspondence, converse, 
 and intimacy with the wicked and base, while, on the other hand, the 
 high God has taken up their mates to a share of His majesty, on what 
 ground is it that you thus condemn those whose fellow-actors you 
 adore? Your goodness is an affront in the heavens. Deify your vilest 
 criminals, if you would please your gods. You honour them by giving 
 divine honours to their fellows. But to say no more about a way of 
 acting so unworthy, there have been men virtuous, and pure, and 
 good. Yet how many of these nobler men you have left in the regions 
 of doom! as Socrates, so renowned for his wisdom, Aristides for his 
 justice, Themistocles for his warlike genius, Alexander for his 
 sublimity of soul, Polycrates for his good fortune, Croesus for his 
 wealth, Demosthenes for his eloquence. Which of these gods of yours 
 is more remarkable for gravity and wisdom than Cato, more just and 
 warlike than Scipio? which of them more magnanimous than Pompey, 
 more prosperous than Sylla, of greater wealth than Crassus, more 
 eloquent than Tullius? How much better it would have been for the 
 God Supreme to have waited that He might have taken such men as 
 these to be His heavenly associates, prescient as He must have 
 surely been of their worthier character! He was in a hurry, I 
 suppose, and straightway shut heaven's gates; and now He must surely 
 feel ashamed at these worthies murmuring over their lot in the 
 regions below. 
 
CHAP. XII.
But I pass from these remarks, for I know and I am going to show 
 what your gods are not, by showing what they are. In reference, 
 then, to these, I see only names of dead men of ancient times; I 
 hear fabulous stories; I recognize sacred rites rounded on mere 
 myths. As to the actual images, I regard hem as simply pieces of 
 matter akin to the vessels and utensils in common use among is, or 
 even undergoing in their consecration a hapless change from these 
 useful articles at the hands of reckless art, which in the 
 transforming process treats them with utter contempt, nay, in the 
 very act commits sacrilege; so that it might be no slight solace to 
 us in all our punishments, suffering as we do because of these same 
 gods, that in their making they suffer as we do themselves. You put 
 Christians on crosses and stakes: what image is not formed from the 
 clay in the first instance, set on cross and stake? The body of your 
 god is first consecrated on the gibbet. You tear the sides of 
 Christians with your claws; but in the case of your own gods, axes, 
 and planes, and rasps are put to work more vigorously on every 
 member of the body. We lay our heads upon the block; before the 
 lead, and the glue, and the nails are put in requisition, your 
 deities are headless. We are cast to the wild beasts, while you 
 attach them to Bacchus, and Cybele, and Caelestis. We are burned in 
 the flames; so, too, are they in their original lump. We are 
 condemned to the mines; from these your gods originate. We are 
 banished to islands; in islands it is a common thing for your gods 
 to have their birth or die. If it is in this way a deity is made, it 
 will follow that as many as are punished are deified, and tortures 
 will have to be declared divinities. But plain it is these objects 
 of your worship have no sense of the injuries and disgraces of their 
 consecrating, as they are equally unconscious of the honours paid to 
 them. O impious words! O blasphemous reproaches! Gnash your teeth 
 upon us--foam with maddened rage against us--ye are the persons, no 
 doubt, who censured a certain Seneca speaking of your superstition 
 at much greater length and far more sharply! In a word, if we refuse 
 our homage to statues and frigid images, the very counterpart of 
 their dead originals, with which hawks, and mice, and spiders are so 
 well acquainted, does it not merit praise instead of penalty, that 
 we have rejected what we have come to see is error? We cannot surely 
 be made out 29 
 
to injure those who we are certain are nonentities. What does not 
 exist, is in its nonexistence secure from suffering. 
 
CHAP. XIII.
"But they are gods to us," you say. And how is it, then, that in 
 utter inconsistency with this, you are convicted of impious, 
 sacrilegious, and irreligious conduct to them, neglecting those you 
 imagine to exist, destroying those who are the objects of your fear, 
 making mock of those whose honour you avenge? See now if I go beyond 
 the truth. First, indeed, seeing you worship, some one god, and some 
 another, of course you give offence to those you do not worship. You 
 cannot continue to give preference to one without slighting another, 
 for selection implies rejection. You despise, therefore, those whom 
 you thus reject; for in your rejection of them, it is plain you have 
 no dread of giving them offence. For, as we have already shown, 
 every god depended on the decision of the senate for his godhead. No 
 god was he whom man in his own counsels did not wish to be so, and 
 thereby condemned. The family deities you call Lares, you exercise a 
 domestic authority over, pledging them, selling them, changing 
 them--making sometimes a cooking-pot of a Saturn, a firepan of a 
 Minerva, as one or other happens to be worn done, or broken in its 
 long sacred use, or as the family head feels the pressure of some 
 more sacred home necessity. In like manner, by public law you 
 disgrace your state gods, putting them in the auction-catalogue, and 
 making them a source of revenue. Men seek to get the Capitol, as 
 they seek to get the herb market, under the voice of the crier, 
 under the auction spear, under the registration of the quaestor. 
 
Deity is struck off and farmed out to the highest bidder. But 
 indeed lands burdened with tribute are of less value; men under the 
 assessment of a poll-tax are less noble; for these things are the 
 marks of servitude. In the case of the gods, on the other hand, the 
 sacredness is great in proportion to the tribute which they yield; 
 nay, the more sacred is a god, the larger is the tax he pays. 
 Majesty is made a source of gain. Religion goes about the taverns 
 begging. You demand a price for the privilege of standing on temple 
 ground, for access to the sacred services; there is no gratuitous 
 knowledge of your divinities permitted--you must buy their favours 
 with a price. What honours in any way do you render to them that you 
 do not render to the dead? You have temples in the one case just as 
 in the other; you have altars in the one case as in the other. Their 
 statues have the same dress, the same insignia. As the dead man had 
 his age, his art, his occupation, so it is with the deity. In what 
 respect does the funeral feast differ from the feast of Jupiter? or 
 the bowl of the gods from the ladle of the manes? or the undertaker 
 from the soothsayer, as in fact this latter personage also attends 
 upon the dead? With perfect propriety you give divine honours to 
 your departed emperors, as you worship them in life. The gods will 
 count themselves indebted to you; nay, it will be matter of high 
 rejoicing among them that their masters are made their equals. But 
 when you adore Larentina, a public prostitute --I could have wished 
 that it might at least have been Lais or Phryne--among your Junos, 
 and Cereses, and Dianas; when you instal in your Pantheon Simon 
 Magus, giving him a statue and the title of Holy God; when you make 
 an infamous court page a god of the sacred synod, although your 
 ancient deities are in reality no better, they will still think 
 themselves affronted by you, that the privilege antiquity conferred 
 on them alone, has been allowed to others. 
 
CHAP. XIV.
I wish now to review your sacred rites; and I pass no censure on 
 your sacrificing, when you offer the worn-out, the scabbed, the 
 corrupting; when you cut off from the fat and the sound the useless 
 parts, such as the head and the hoofs, which in your house you would 
 have assigned to the slaves or the dogs; when of the tithe of 
 Hercules you do not lay a third upon his altar (I 
 
am disposed rather to praise your wisdom in rescuing something 
 from being lost); but turning to your books, from which you get your 
 training in wisdom and the nobler duties of life, what utterly 
 ridiculous things I find!--that for Trojans and Greeks the gods 
 fought among themselves like pairs of gladiators; that Venus was 
 wounded by a man, because she would rescue her son Aeneas when he 
 was in peril of his life from the same Diomede; that Mars was almost 
 wasted away by a thirteen months' imprisonment; that Jupiter was 
 saved by a monster's aid from suffering the same violence at the 
 hands of the other gods; that he now laments the fate of Sarpedon, 
 now foully makes love to his own sister, recounting (to her) former 
 mistresses, now for a long time past not so dear as she. After this, 
 what poet is not found copying the example of his chief, to be a 
 disgracer of the gods? One gives 30 
 
Apollo to king Admetus to tend his sheep; another hires out the 
 building labours of Neptune to Laomedon. A well-known lyric poet, 
 too--Pindar, I mean--sings of Aesculapius deservedly stricken with 
 lightning for his greed in practising wrongfully his art. A wicked 
 deed it was of Jupiter--if he hurled the bolt--unnatural to his 
 grandson, and exhibiting envious feeling to the Physician. Things 
 like these should not be made public if they are true; and if false, 
 they should not be fabricated among people professing a great 
 respect for religion. Nor indeed do either tragic or comic writers 
 shrink from setting forth the gods as the origin of all family 
 calamities and sins. I do not dwell on the philosophers, contenting 
 myself with a reference to Socrates, who, in contempt of the gods, 
 was in the habit of swearing by an oak, and a goat, and a dog. In 
 fact, for this very thing Socrates was condemned to death, that he 
 overthrew the worship of the gods. Plainly, at one time as well as 
 another, that is, always truth is disliked. However, when rueing 
 their judgment, the Athenians inflicted punishment on his accusers, 
 and set up a golden image of him in a temple, the condemnation was 
 in the very act rescinded, and his witness was restored to its 
 former value. Diogenes, too, makes utter mock of Hercules and the 
 Roman cynic Varro brings forward three hundred Joves, or Jupiters 
 they should be called, all headless. 
 
CHAP. XV.
Others of your writers, in their wantonness, even minister to 
 your pleasures by vilifying the gods. Examine those charming farces 
 of your Lentuli and Hostilii, whether in the jokes and tricks it is 
 the buffoons or the deities which afford you merriment; such farces 
 I mean as Anubis the Adulterer, and Luna of the masculine gender, 
 and Diana under the lash, and the reading the will of Jupiter 
 deceased, and the three famishing Herculeses held up to ridicule. 
 Your dramatic literature, too, depicts all the vileness of your 
 gods. The Sun mourns his offspring cast down from heaven, and you 
 are full of glee; Cybele sighs after the scornful swain, and you do 
 not blush; you brook the stage recital of Jupiter's misdeeds, and 
 the shepherd judging Juno, Venus, and Minerva. Then, again, when the 
 likeness of a god is put on the head of an ignominious and infamous 
 wretch, when one impure and trained up for the art in all 
 effeminacy, represents a Minerva or a Hercules, is not the majesty 
 of your gods insulted, and their deity dishonored? Yet you not 
 merely look on, but applaud. You are, I suppose, more devout in the 
 arena, where after the same fashion your deities dance on human 
 blood, on the pollutions caused by inflicted punishments, as they 
 act their themes and stories, doing their turn for the wretched 
 criminals, except that these, too, often put on divinity and 
 actually play the very gods. We have seen in our day a 
 representation of the mutilation of Attis, that famous god of 
 Pessinus, and a man burnt alive as Hercules. We have made merry amid 
 the ludicrous cruelties of the noonday exhibition, at Mercury 
 examining the bodies of the dead with his hot iron; we have 
 witnessed Jove's brother, mallet in hand, dragging out the corpses 
 of the gladiators. But who can go into everything of this sort? If 
 by such things as these the honour of deity is assailed, if they go 
 to blot out every trace of its majesty, we must explain them by the 
 contempt in which the gods are held, alike by those who actually do 
 them, and by those for whose enjoyment they are done. This it will 
 be said, however, is all in sport. But if I add--it is what all know 
 and will admit as readily to be the fact--that in the temples 
 adulteries are arranged, that at the altars pimping is practised, 
 that often in the houses of the temple-keepers and priests, under 
 the sacrificial fillets, and the sacred hats, and the purple robes, 
 amid the fumes of incense, deeds of licentiousness are done, I am 
 not sure but your gods have more reason to complain of you than of 
 Christians. It is certainly among the votaries of your religion that 
 the perpetrators of sacrilege are always found, for Christians do 
 not enter your temples even in the day-time. Perhaps they too would 
 be spoilers of them, if they worshipped in them. What then do they 
 worship, since their objects of worship are different from yours? 
 Already indeed it is implied, as the corollary from their rejection 
 of the lie, that they render homage to the truth; nor continue 
 longer in an error which they have given up in the very fact of 
 recognizing it to be an error. Take this in first of all, and when 
 we have offered a preliminary refutation of some false opinions, go 
 on to derive from it our entire religious system. 
 
CHAP. XVI.
For, like some others, you are under the delusion that our god is 
 an ass's head. Cor 31 
 
nelius Tacitus first put this notion into people's minds. In the 
 fifth book of his histories, beginning the (narrative of the) Jewish 
 war with an account of the origin of the nation; and theorizing at 
 his pleasure about the origin, as well as the name and the religion 
 of the Jews, he states that having been delivered, or rather, in his 
 opinion, expelled from Egypt, in crossing the vast plains of Arabia, 
 where water is so scanty, they were in extremity from thirst; but 
 taking the guidance of the wild asses, which it was thought might be 
 seeking water after feeding, they discovered a fountain, and 
 thereupon in their gratitude they consecrated a head of this species 
 of animal. And as Christianity is nearly allied to Judaism, from 
 this, I suppose, it was taken for granted that we too are devoted to 
 the worship of the same image. But the said Cornelius Tacitus (the 
 very opposite of tacit in telling lies) informs us in the work 
 already mentioned, that when Cneius Pompeius captured Jerusalem, he 
 entered the temple to see the arcana of the Jewish religion, but 
 found no image there. Yet surely if worship was rendered to any 
 visible object, the very place for its exhibition would be the 
 shrine; and that all the more that the worship, however 
 unreasonable, had no need there to fear outside beholders. For 
 entrance to the holy place was permitted to the priests alone, while 
 all vision was forbidden to others by an outspread curtain. You will 
 not, however, deny that all beasts of burden, and not parts of them, 
 but the animals entire, are with their goddess Epona objects of 
 worship with you. It is this, perhaps, which displeases you in us, 
 that while your worship here is universal, we do homage only to the 
 ass. Then, if any of you think we render superstitious adoration to 
 the cross, in that adoration he is sharer with us. If you offer 
 homage to a piece of wood at all, it matters little what it is like 
 when the substance is the same: it is of no consequence the form, if 
 you have the very body of the god. And yet how far does the Athenian 
 Pallas differ from the stock of the cross, or the Pharian Ceres as 
 she is put up uncarved to sale, a mere rough stake and piece of 
 shapeless wood? Every stake fixed in an upright position is a 
 portion of the cross; we render our adoration, if you will have it 
 so, to a god entire and complete. We have shown before that your 
 deities are derived from shapes modelled from the cross. But you 
 also worship victories, for in your trophies the cross is the heart 
 of the trophy. The camp religion of the Romans is all through a 
 worship of the standards, a setting the standards above all gods. 
 Well, as those images decking out the standards are ornaments of 
 crosses. All those hangings of your standards and banners are robes 
 of crosses. I praise your zeal: you would not consecrate crosses 
 unclothed and unadorned. Others, again, certainly with more 
 information and greater verisimilitude, believe that the sun is our 
 god. We shall be counted Persians perhaps, though we do not worship 
 the orb of day painted on a piece of linen cloth, having himself 
 everywhere in his own disk. The idea no doubt has originated from 
 our being known to turn to the east in prayer. But you, many of you, 
 also under pretence sometimes of worshipping the heavenly bodies, 
 move your lips in the direction of the sunrise. In the same way, if 
 we devote Sun-day to rejoicing, from a far different reason than 
 Sun-worship, we have some resemblance to those of you who devote the 
 day of Saturn to ease and luxury, though they too go far away from 
 Jewish ways, of which indeed they are ignorant. But lately a new 
 edition of our god has been given to the world in that great city: 
 it originated with a certain vile man who was wont to hire himself 
 out to cheat the wild beasts, and who exhibited a picture with this 
 inscription: The God of the Christians, born of an ass. He had the 
 ears of an ass, was hoofed in one foot, carried a book, and wore a 
 toga. Both the name and the figure gave us amusement. But our 
 opponents ought straightway to have done homage to this biformed 
 divinity, for they have acknowledged gods dog-headed and 
 lion-headed, with horn of buck and ram, with goat-like loins, with 
 serpent legs, with wings sprouting from back or foot. These things 
 we have discussed ex abundanti, that we might not seem willingly to 
 pass by any rumor against us unrefuted. Having thoroughly cleared 
 ourselves, we turn now to an exhibi-ition of what our religion 
 really is. 
 
CHAP. XVII.
The object of our worship is the One God, He who by His 
 commanding word, His arranging wisdom, His mighty power, brought 
 forth from nothing this entire mass of our world, with all its array 
 of elements, bodies, spirits, for the glory of His majesty; whence 
 also the Greeks have bestowed on it the name of Kosmos. The 
 eye cannot see Him, though He is (spiritually) visible. He is 
 incompre 32 
 
hensible, though in grace He is manifested. He is beyond our 
 utmost thought, though our human faculties conceive of Him. He is 
 therefore equally real and great. But that which, in the ordinary 
 sense, can be seen and handled and conceived, is inferior to the 
 eyes by which it is taken in, and the hands by which it is tainted, 
 and the faculties by which it is discovered; but that which is 
 infinite is known only to itself. This it is which gives some notion 
 of God, while yet beyond all our conceptions--our very incapacity of 
 fully grasping Him affords us the idea of what He really is. He is 
 presented to our minds in His transcendent greatness, as at once 
 known and unknown. And this is the crowning guilt of men, that they 
 will not recognize One, of whom they cannot possibly be ignorant. 
 Would you have the proof from the works of His hands, so numerous 
 and so great, which both contain you and sustain you, which minister 
 at once to your enjoyment, and strike you with awe; or would you 
 rather have it from the testimony of the soul itself? Though under 
 the oppressive bondage of the body, though led astray by depraving 
 customs, though enervated by lusts and passions, though in slavery 
 to false gods; yet, whenever the soul comes to itself, as out of a 
 surfeit, or a sleep, or a sickness, and attains something of its 
 natural soundness, it speaks of God; using no other word, because 
 this is the peculiar name of the true God. "God is great and 
 good"--"Which may God give," are the words on every lip. It bears 
 witness, too, that God is judge, exclaiming, "God sees," and, "I 
 commend myself to God," and, "God will repay me." O noble testimony 
 of the soul by nature Christian! Then, too, in using such words as 
 these, it looks not to the Capitol, but to the heavens. It knows 
 that there is the throne of the living God, as from Him and from 
 thence itself came down. 
 
CHAP. XVIII.
But, that we might attain an ampler and more authoritative 
 knowledge at once of Himself, and of His counsels and will, God has 
 added a written revelation for the behoof of every one whose heart 
 is set on seeking Him, that seeking he may find, and finding 
 believe, and believing obey. For from the first He sent messengers 
 into the world,--men whose stainless righteousness made them worthy 
 to know the Most High, and to reveal Him,--men abundantly endowed 
 with the Holy Spirit, that they might proclaim that there is one God 
 only who made all things, who formed man from the dust of the ground 
 (for He is the true Prometheus who gave order to the world by 
 arranging the seasons and their course),--these have further set 
 before us the proofs He has given of His majesty in H judgments by 
 floods and fires, the rules appointed by Him for securing His 
 favour, as well as the retribution in store for the ignoring, 
 forsaking and keeping them, as being about at the end of all to 
 adjudge His worshippers to everlasting life, and the wicked to the 
 doom of fire at once without ending and without break, raising up 
 again all the dead from the beginning, reforming and renewing them 
 with the object of awarding either recompense. Once these things 
 were with us, too, the theme of ridicule. We are of your stock and 
 nature: men are made, not born, Christians. The preachers of whom we 
 have spoken are called prophets, from the office which belongs to 
 them of predicting the future. Their words, as well as the miracles 
 which they performed, that men might have faith in their divine 
 authority, we have still in the literary treasures they have left, 
 and which are open to all. Ptolemy, surnamed Philadelphus, the most 
 learned of his race, a man of vast acquaintance with all literature, 
 emulating, I imagine, the book enthusiasm of Pisistratus, among 
 other remains of the past which either their antiquity or something 
 of peculiar interest made famous, at the suggestion of Demetrius 
 Phalereus, who was renowned above all grammarians of his time, and 
 to whom he had committed the management of these things, applied to 
 the Jews for their writings--I mean the writings peculiar to them 
 and in their tongue, which they alone possessed, for from 
 themselves, as a people dear to God for their fathers' sake, their 
 prophets had ever sprung, and to them they had ever spoken. Now in 
 ancient times the people we call Jews bare the name of Hebrews, and 
 so both their writings and their speech were Hebrew. But that the 
 understanding of their books might not be wanting, this also the 
 Jews supplied to Ptolemy; for they gave him seventy-two 
 interpreters-men whom the philosopher Menedemus, the well-known 
 asserter of a Providence, regarded with respect as sharing in his 
 views. The same account is given by Aristaeus. So the king left 
 these works unlocked to all, in the Greek language. To this day, at 
 the temple of Serapis, the libraries of Ptolemy are to be seen, with 
 the identical Hebrew originals in them. The Jews, too, read them 
 publicly. Under a tribute-liberty, they are 33 
 
in the habit of going to hear them every Sabbath. Whoever gives 
 ear will find God in them; whoever takes pains to understand, will 
 be compelled to believe. 
 
CHAP. XIX.
Their high antiquity, first of all, claims authority for these 
 writings. With you, too, it is a kind of religion to demand belief 
 on this very ground. Well, all the substances, all the materials, 
 the origins, classes, contents of your most ancient writings, even 
 most nations and cities illustrious in the records of the past and 
 noted for their antiquity in books of annals,--the very forms of 
 your letters, those revealers and custodiers of events, nay (I think 
 I speak still within the mark), your very gods themselves, your very 
 temples and oracles, and sacred rites, are less ancient than the 
 work of a single prophet, in whom you have the thesaurus of the 
 entire Jewish religion, and therefore too of ours. If you happen to 
 have heard of a certain Moses, I speak first of him: he is as far 
 back as the Argive Inachus; by nearly four hundred years--only seven 
 less--he precedes Danaus, your most ancient name; while he antedates 
 by a millennium the death of Priam. I might affirm, too, that he is 
 five hundred years earlier than Homer, and have supporters of that 
 view. The other prophets also, though of later date, are, even the 
 most recent of them, as far back as the first of your philosophers, 
 and legislators, and historians. It is not so much the difficulty of 
 the subject, as its vastness, that stands in the way of a statement 
 of the grounds on which these statements rest; the matter is not so 
 arduous as it would be tedious. It would require the anxious study 
 of many books, and the fingers busy reckoning. The histories of the 
 most ancient nations, such as the Egyptians, the Chaldeans, the 
 Phoenicians, would need to be ransacked; the men of these various 
 nations who have information to give, would have to be called in as 
 witnesses. Manetho the Egyptian, and Berosus the Chaldean, and 
 Hieromus the Phoenician king of Tyre; their successors too, Ptolemy 
 the Mendesian, and Demetrius Phalereus, and King Juba, and Apion, 
 and Thallus, and their critic the Jew Josephus, the native 
 vindicator of the ancient history of his people, who either 
 authenticates or refutes the others. Also the Greek censors' lists 
 must be compared, and the dates of events ascertained, that the 
 chronological connections may be opened up, and thus the reckonings 
 of the various annals be made to give forth light. We must go abroad 
 into the histories and literature of all nations. And, in fact, we 
 have already brought the proof in part before you, in giving those 
 hints as to how it is to be effected. But it seems better to delay 
 the full discussion of this, lest in our haste we do not 
 sufficiently carry it out, or lest in its thorough handling we make 
 too lengthened a digression. 
 
CHAP. XX.
To make up for our delay in this, we bring under your notice 
 something of even greater importance; we point to the majesty of our 
 Scriptures, if not to their antiquity. If you doubt that they are as 
 ancient as we say, we offer proof that they are divine. And you may 
 convince yourselves of this at once, and without going very far. 
 Your instructors, the world, and the age, and the event, are all be 
 fore you. All that is taking place around you I was fore-announced; 
 all that you now see with your eye was previously heard by the ear. 
 The swallowing up of cities by the earth; the theft of islands by 
 the sea; wars, bringing external and internal convulsions; the 
 collision of kingdoms with kingdoms; famines and pestilences, and 
 local massacres, and widespread desolating mortalities; the 
 exaltation of the lowly, and the humbling of the proud; the decay of 
 righteousness, the growth of sin, the slackening interest in all 
 good ways; the very seasons and elements going out of their ordinary 
 course, monsters and portents taking the place of nature's forms--it 
 was all foreseen and predicted before it came to pass. While we 
 suffer the calamities, we read of them in the Scriptures; as we 
 examine, they are proved. Well, the truth of a prophecy, I thinks is 
 the demonstration of its being from above. Hence there is among us 
 an assured faith in regard to coming events as things already proved 
 to us, for they were predicted along with what we have day by day 
 fulfilled. They are uttered by the same voices, they are written in 
 the same books--the same Spirit inspires them. All time is one to 
 prophecy foretelling the future. Among men, it may be, a distinction 
 of times is made while the fulfilment is going on: from being future 
 we think of it as presents and then from being present we count it 
 as belonging to the past. How are we to blame, I pray you, that we 
 believe in things to come as though they already were, with the 
 grounds we have for our faith in these two steps? 
 
CHAP. XXI.
But having asserted that our religion is supported by the 
 writings of the Jews, the oldest which exist, though it is generally 
 known, and we fully admit that it dates from a comparatively recent 
 period--no further 34 
 
back indeed than the reign of Tiberius--a question may perhaps be 
 raised on this ground about its standing, as if it were hiding 
 something of its presumption under shadow of an illustrious 
 religion, one which has at any rate undoubted allowance of the law, 
 or because, apart from the question of age, we neither accord with 
 the Jews in their peculiarities in regard to food, nor in their 
 sacred days, nor even in their well-known bodily sign, nor in the 
 possession of a common name, which surely behoved to be the case if 
 we did homage to the same God as they. Then, too, the common people 
 have now some knowledge of Christ, and think of Him as but a man, 
 one indeed such as the Jews condemned, so that some may naturally 
 enough have taken up the idea that we are worshippers of a mere 
 human being. But we are neither ashamed of Christ --for we rejoice 
 to be counted His disciples, and in His name to suffer--nor do we 
 differ from the Jews concerning God. We must make, therefore, a 
 remark or two as to Christ's divinity. In former times the Jews 
 enjoyed much of God's favour, when the fathers of their race were 
 noted for their righteousness and faith. So it was that as a people 
 they flourished greatly, and their kingdom attained to a lofty 
 eminence; and so highly blessed were they, that for their 
 instruction God spake to them in special revelations, pointing out 
 to them beforehand how they should merit His favor and avoid His 
 displeasure. But how deeply they have sinned, puffed up to their 
 fall with a false trust in their noble ancestors, turning from God's 
 way into a way of sheer impiety, though they themselves should 
 refuse to admit it, their present national ruin would afford 
 sufficient proof. Scattered abroad, a race of wanderers, exiles from 
 their own land and clime, they roam over the whole world without 
 either a human or a heavenly king, not possessing even the 
 stranger's right to set so much as a simple footstep in their native 
 country. The sacred writers withal, in giving previous warning of 
 these things, all with equal clearness ever declared that, in the 
 last days of the world, God would, out of every nation, and people, 
 and country, choose for Himself more faithful worshippers, upon whom 
 He would bestow His grace, and that indeed in ampler measure, in 
 keeping with the enlarged capacities of a nobler dispensation. 
 Accordingly, He appeared among us, whose coming to renovate and 
 illuminate man's nature was pre-announced by God--I mean Christ, 
 that Son of God. And so the supreme Head and Master of this grace 
 and discipline, the Enlightener and Trainer of the human race, God's 
 own Son, was announced among us, born--but not so born as to make 
 Him ashamed of the name of Son or of His paternal origin. It was not 
 His lot to have as His father, by incest with a sister, or by 
 violation of a daughter or another's wife, a god in the shape of 
 serpent, or ox, or bird, or lover, for his vile ends transmuting 
 himself into the gold of Danaus. They are your divinities upon whom 
 these base deeds of Jupiter were done. But the Son of God has no 
 mother in any sense which involves impurity; she, whom men suppose 
 to be His mother in the ordinary way, had never entered into the 
 marriage bond. But, first, I shall discuss His essential nature, and 
 so the nature of His birth will be understood. We have already 
 asserted that God made the world, and all which it contains, by His 
 Word, and Reason, and Power. It is abundantly plain that your 
 philosophers, too, regard the Logos--that is, the Word and 
 Reason--as the Creator of the universe. For Zeno lays it down that 
 he is the creator, having made all things according to a determinate 
 plan; that his name is Fate, and God, and the soul of Jupiter, and 
 the necessity of all things. Cleanthes ascribes all this to spirit, 
 which he maintains pervades the universe. And we, in like manner, 
 hold that the Word, and Reason, and Power, by which we have said God 
 made all, have spirit as their proper and essential substratum, in 
 which the Word has inbeing to give forth utterances, and reason 
 abides to dispose and arrange, and power is over all to execute. We 
 have been taught that He proceeds forth from God, and in that 
 procession He is generated; so that He is the Son of God, and is 
 called God from unity of substance with God. For God, too, is a 
 Spirit. Even when the ray is shot from the sun, it is still part of 
 the parent mass; the sun will still be in the ray, because it is a 
 ray of the sun--there is no division of substance, but merely an 
 extension. Thus Christ is Spirit of Spirit, and God of God, as light 
 of light is kindled. The material matrix remains entire and 
 unimpaired, though you derive from it any number of shoots possessed 
 of its qualities; so, too, that which has come forth out of God is 
 at once God and the Son of God, and the two are one. In this way 
 also, as He is Spirit of Spirit and God of God, He is made a second 
 in manner of existence--in position, not in nature; and He did not 
 withdraw from the original source, but went forth. This ray of God, 
 then, as it was always foretold in ancient times, descending into a 
 certain virgin, and made flesh in her womb, 35 
 
is in His birth God and man united. The flesh formed by the 
 Spirit is nourished, grows up to manhood, speaks, teaches, works, 
 and is the Christ. Receive meanwhile this fable, if you choose to 
 call it so--it is like some of your own--while we go on to show how 
 Christ's claims are proved, and who the parties are with you by whom 
 such fables have been set agoing to overthrow the truth, which they 
 resemble. The Jews, too, were well aware that Christ was coming, as 
 those to whom the prophets spake. Nay, even now His advent is 
 expected by them; nor is there any other contention between them and 
 us, than that they believe the advent has not yet occurred. For two 
 comings of Christ having been revealed to us: a first, which has 
 been fulfilled in the lowliness of a human lot; a second, which 
 impends over the world, now near its close, in all the majesty of 
 Deity unveiled; and, by misunderstanding the first, they have 
 concluded that the second--which, as matter of more manifest 
 prediction, they set their hopes on--is the only one. It was the 
 merited punishment of their sin not to understand the Lord's first 
 advent: for if they had, they would have believed; and if they had 
 believed, they would have obtained salvation. They themselves read 
 how it is written of them that they are deprived of wisdom and 
 understanding--of the use of eyes and ears. As, then, under the 
 force of their pre-judgment, they had convinced themselves from His 
 lowly guise that Christ was no more than man, it followed from that, 
 as a necessary consequence, that they should hold Him a magician 
 from the powers which He displayed,--expelling devils from men by a 
 word, restoring vision to the blind, cleansing the leprous, 
 reinvigorating the paralytic, summoning the dead to life again, 
 making the very elements of nature obey Him, stilling the storms and 
 walking on the sea; proving that He was the Logos of God, that 
 primordial first-begotten Word, accompanied by power and reason, and 
 based on Spirit,--that He who was now doing all things by His word, 
 and He who had done that of old, were one and the same. But the Jews 
 were so exasperated by His teaching, by which their rulers and 
 chiefs were convicted of the truth, chiefly because so many turned 
 aside to Him, that at last they brought Him before Pontius Pilate, 
 at that time Roman governor of Syria; and, by the violence of their 
 outcries against Him, extorted a sentence giving Him up to them to 
 be crucified. He Himself had predicted this; which, however, would 
 have signified little had not the prophets of old done it as well. 
 And yet, nailed upon the cross, He exhibited many notable signs, by 
 which His death was distinguished from all others. At His own 
 free-will, He with a word dismissed from Him His spirit, 
 anticipating the executioner's work. In the same hour, too, the 
 light of day was withdrawn, when the sun at the very time was in his 
 meridian blaze. Those who were not aware that this had been 
 predicted about Christ, no doubt thought it an eclipse. You 
 yourselves have the account of the world-portent still in your 
 archives. Then, when His body was taken down from the cross and 
 placed in a sepulchre, the Jews in their eager watchfulness 
 surrounded it with a large military guard, lest, as He had predicted 
 His resurrection from the dead on the third day, His disciples might 
 remove by stealth His body, and deceive even the incredulous. But, 
 lo, on the third day there a was a sudden shock of earthquake, and 
 the stone which sealed the sepulchre was rolled away, and the guard 
 fled off in terror: without a single disciple near, the grave was 
 found empty of all but the clothes of the buried One. But 
 nevertheless, the leaders of the Jews, whom it nearly concerned both 
 to spread abroad a lie, and keep back a people tributary and 
 submissive to them from the faith, gave it out that the body of 
 Christ had been stolen by His followers. For the Lord, you see, did 
 not go forth into the public gaze, lest the wicked should be 
 delivered from their error; that faith also, destined to a great 
 reward, might hold its ground in difficulty. But He spent forty days 
 with some of His disciples down in Galilee, a region of Judea, 
 instructing them in the doctrines they were to teach to others. 
 Thereafter, having given them commission to preach the gospel 
 through the world, He was encompassed with a cloud and taken up to 
 heaven,--a fact more certain far than the assertions of your Proculi 
 concerning Romulus. All these things Pilate did to Christ; and now 
 in fact a Christian in his own convictions, he sent word of Him to 
 the reigning Caesar, who was at the time Tiberius. Yes, and the 
 Caesars too would have believed on Christ, if either the Caesars had 
 not been necessary for the world, or if Christians could have been 
 Caesars. His disciples also, spreading over the world, did as their 
 Divine Master bade them; and after suffering greatly themselves from 
 the persecutions of the Jews, and with no unwilling heart, as having 
 faith undoubting in the truth, at last by Nero's cruel sword sowed 
 the seed of Christian blood at 36 
 
Rome. Yes, and we shall prove that even your own gods are 
 effective witnesses for Christ. It is a great matter if, to give you 
 faith in Christians, I can bring forward the authority of the very 
 beings on account of whom you refuse them credit. Thus far we have 
 carried out the plan we laid down. We have set forth this origin of 
 our sect and name, with this account of the Founder of Christianity. 
 Let no one henceforth charge us with infamous wickedness; let no one 
 think that it is otherwise than we have represented, for none may 
 give a false account of his religion. For in the very fact that he 
 says he worships another god than he really does, he is guilty of 
 denying the object of his worship, and transferring his worship and 
 homage to another; and, in the transference, he ceases to worship 
 the god he has repudiated. We say, and before all men we say, and 
 torn and bleeding under your tortures, we cry out, "We worship God 
 through Christ." Count Christ a man, if you please; by Him and in 
 Him God would be known and be adored. If the Jews object, we answer 
 that Moses, who was but a man, taught them their religion; against 
 the Greeks we urge that Orpheus at Pieria, Musaeus at Athens, 
 Melampus at Argos, Trophonius in Boeotia, imposed religious rites; 
 turning to yourselves, who exercise sway over the nations, it was 
 the man Numa Pompilius who laid on the Romans a heavy load of costly 
 superstitions. Surely Christ, then, had a right to reveal Deity, 
 which was in fact His own essential possession, not with the object 
 of bringing boers and savages by the dread of multitudinous gods, 
 whose favour must be won into some civilization, as was the case 
 with Numa; but as one who aimed to enlighten men already civilized, 
 and under illusions from their very culture, that they might come to 
 the knowledge of the truth. 
 
Search, then, and see if that divinity of Christ be true. If it 
 be of such a nature that the acceptance of it transforms a man, and 
 makes him truly good, there is implied in that the duty of 
 renouncing what is opposed to it as false; especially and on every 
 ground that which, hiding itself under the names and images of dead, 
 the labours to convince men of its divinity by certain signs, and 
 miracles, and oracles. 
 
CHAP. XXII.
And we affirm indeed the existence of certain spiritual essences; 
 nor is their name unfamiliar. The philosophers acknowledge there are 
 demons; Socrates himself waiting on a demon's will. Why not? since 
 it is said an evil spirit attached itself specially to him even from 
 his childhood--turning his mind no doubt from what was good. The 
 poets are all acquainted with demons too; even the ignorant common 
 people make frequent use of them in cursing. In fact, they call upon 
 Satan, the demon-chief, in their execrations, as though from some 
 instinctive soul-knowledge of him. Plato also admits the existence 
 of angels. The dealers in magic, no less, come forward as witnesses 
 to the existence of both kinds of spirits. We are instructed, 
 moreover, by our sacred books how from certain angels, who fell of 
 their own flee-will, there sprang a more wicked demon-brood, 
 condemned of God along with the authors of their race, and that 
 chief we have referred to. It will for the present be enough, 
 however, that some account is given of their work. Their great 
 business is the ruin of mankind. So, from the very first, spiritual 
 wickedness sought our destruction. 
 
They inflict, accordingly, upon our bodies diseases and other 
 grievous calamities, while by violent assaults they hurry the soul 
 into sudden and extraordinary excesses. Their marvellous subtleness 
 and tenuity give them access to both parts of our nature. As 
 spiritual, they can do no harm; for, invisible and intangible, we 
 are not cognizant of their action save by its effects, as when some 
 inexplicable, unseen poison in the breeze blights the apples and the 
 grain while in the flower, or kills them in the bud, or destroys 
 them when they have reached maturity; as though by the tainted 
 atmosphere in some unknown way spreading abroad its pestilential 
 exhalations. 
 
So, too, by an influence equally obscure, demons and angels 
 breathe into the soul, and rouse up its corruptions with furious 
 passions and vile excesses; or with cruel lusts accompanied by 
 various errors, of which the worst is that by which these deities 
 are commended to the favour of deceived and deluded human beings, 
 that they may get their proper food of flesh-fumes and blood when 
 that is offered up to idol-images. What is daintier food to the 
 spirit of evil, than turning men's minds away from the true God by 
 the illusions of a false divination? And here I explain how these 
 illusions are managed. Every spirit is possessed of wings. This is a 
 common property of both angels and demons. So they are everywhere in 
 a single moment; the whole world is as one place to them; all that 
 is done over the whole extent of it, it is as easy for them to know 
 as to report. Their swiftness of motion is taken for divinity, 
 because their nature is unknown. Thus they would have themselves 
 thought 37 
 
sometimes the authors of the things which they announce; and 
 sometimes, no doubt, the bad things are their doing, never the good. 
 The purposes of God, too, they took up of old from the lips of the 
 prophets, even as they spoke them; and they gather them still from 
 their works, when they hear them read aloud. Thus getting, too, from 
 this source some intimations of the future, they set themselves up 
 as rivals of the true God, while they steal His divinations. But the 
 skill with which their responses are shaped to meet events, your 
 Croesi and Pyrrhi know too well. On the other hand, it was in that 
 way we have explained, the Pythian was able to declare that they 
 were cooking a tortoise with the flesh of a lamb; in a moment he had 
 been to Lydia. From dwelling in the air, and their nearness to the 
 stars, and their commerce with the clouds, they have means of 
 knowing the preparatory processes going on in these upper regions, 
 and thus can give promise of the rains which they already feel. Very 
 kind too, no doubt, they are in regard to the healing of diseases. 
 For, first of all, they make you ill; then, to get a miracle out of 
 it, they command the application of remedies either altogether new, 
 or contrary to those in use, and straightway withdrawing hurtful 
 influence, they are supposed to have wrought a cure. What need, 
 then, to speak of their other artifices, or yet further of the 
 deceptive power which they have as spirits: 
 
of these Castor apparitions, of water carried by a sieve, and a 
 ship drawn along by a girdle, and a beard reddened by a touch, all 
 done with the one object of showing that men should believe in the 
 deity of stones, and not seek after the only true God? 
 
CHAP. XXIII.
Moreover, if sorcerers call forth ghosts, and even make what seem 
 the souls of the dead to appear; if they put boys to death, in order 
 to get a response from the oracle; if, with their juggling 
 illusions, they make a pretence of doing various miracles; if they 
 put dreams into people's minds by the power of the angels and demons 
 whose aid they have invited, by whose influence, too, goats and 
 tables are made to divine,--how much more likely is this power of 
 evil to be zealous in doing with all its might, of its own 
 inclination, and for its own objects, what it does to serve the ends 
 of others! Or if both angels and demons do just what your gods do, 
 where in that case is the pre-eminence of deity, which we must 
 surely think to be above all in might? Will it not then be more 
 reasonable to hold that these spirits make themselves gods, giving 
 as they do the very proofs which raise your gods to godhead, than 
 that the gods are the equals of angels and demons? You make a 
 distinction of places, I suppose, regarding as gods in their temple 
 those whose divinity you do not recognize elsewhere; counting the 
 madness which leads one man to leap from the sacred houses, to be 
 something different from that which leads another to leap from an 
 adjoining house; looking on one who cuts his arms and secret pans as 
 under a different furor from another who cuts his throat. The result 
 of the frenzy is the same, and the manner of instigation is one. But 
 thus far we have been dealing only in words: we now proceed to a 
 proof of facts, in which we shall show that under different names 
 you have real identity. Let a person be brought before your 
 tribunals, who is plainly under demoniacal possession. The wicked 
 spirit, bidden to speak by a follower of Christ, will as readily 
 make the truthful confession that he is a demon, as elsewhere he has 
 falsely asserted that he is a god. Or, if you will, let there be 
 produced one of the god-possessed, as they are supposed, who, 
 inhaling at the altar, conceive divinity from the fumes, who are 
 delivered of it by retching, who vent it forth in agonies of 
 gasping. Let that same Virgin Caelestis herself the rain-promiser, 
 let Aesculapius discoverer of medicines, ready to prolong the life 
 of Socordius, and Tenatius, and Asclepiodotus, now in the last 
 extremity, if they would not confess, in their fear of lying to a 
 Christian, that they were demons, then and there shed the blood of 
 that most impudent follower of Christ. What clearer than a work like 
 that? what more trustworthy than such a proof? The simplicity of 
 truth is thus set forth; its own worth sustains it; no ground 
 remains for the least suspicion. Do you say that it is done by 
 magic, or some trick of that sort? You will not say anything of the 
 sort, if you have been allowed the use of your ears and eyes. For 
 what argument can you bring against a thing that is exhibited to the 
 eye in its naked reality? If, on the one hand, they are really gods, 
 why do they pretend to be demons? Is it from fear of us? In that 
 case your divinity is put in subjection to Christians; and you 
 surely can never ascribe deity to that which is under authority of 
 man, nay (if it adds aught to the disgrace)of its very enemies. If, 
 on the other hand, they are demons or angels, why, inconsistently 
 with this, do 38 
 
they presume to set themselves forth as acting the pan of gods? 
 For as beings who put themselves out as gods would never willingly 
 call themselves demons, if they were gods indeed, that they might 
 not thereby in fact abdicate their dignity; so those whom you know 
 to be no more than demons, would not dare to act as gods, if those 
 whose names they take and use were really divine. For they would not 
 dare to treat with disrespect the higher majesty of beings, whose 
 displeasure they would feel was to be dreaded. So this divinity of 
 yours is no divinity; for if it were, it would not be pretended to 
 by demons, and it would not be denied by gods. But since on beth 
 sides there is a concurrent acknowledgment that they are not gods, 
 gather from this that there is but a single race--I mean the race of 
 demons, the real race in both cases. Let your search, then, now be 
 after gods; for those whom you had imagined to be so you find to be 
 spirits of evil. The truth is, as we have thus not only shown from 
 our own gods that neither themselves nor any others have claims to 
 deity, you may see at once who is really God, and whether that is He 
 and He alone whom we Christians own; as also whether you are to 
 believe in Him, and worship Him, after the manner of our Christan 
 faith and discipline. But at once they will say, Who is this Christ 
 with his fables? is he an ordinary man? is he a sorcerer? was his 
 body stolen by his disciples from its tomb? is he now in the realms 
 below? or is he not rather up in the heavens, thence about to come 
 again, making the whole world shake, filling the earth with dread 
 alarms, making all but Christians wail--as the Power of God, and the 
 Spirit of God, as the Word, the Reason, the Wisdom, and the Son of 
 God? Mock as you like, but get the demons if you can to join you in 
 your mocking; let them deny that Christ is coming to judge every 
 human soul which has existed from the world's beginning, clothing it 
 again with the body it laid aside at death; let them declare it, 
 say, before your tribunal, that this work has been allotted to Minos 
 and Rhadamanthus, as Plato and the poets agree; let them put away 
 from them at least the mark of ignominy and condemnation. They 
 disclaim being unclean spirits, which yet we must hold as 
 indubitably proved by their relish for the blood and fumes and 
 foetid carcasses of sacrificial animals, and even by the vile 
 language of their ministers. Let them deny that, for their 
 wickedness condemned already, they are kept for that very 
 judgment-day, with all their worshippers and their works. Why, all 
 the authority and power we have over them is from our naming the 
 name of Christ, and recalling to their memory the woes with which 
 God threatens them at the hands of Christ as Judge, and which they 
 expect one day to overtake them. Fearing Christ in God, and God in 
 Christ, they become subject to the servants of God and Christ. So at 
 our touch and breathing, overwhelmed bY the thought and realization 
 of those judgment fires, they leave at our command the bodies they 
 have entered, unwilling, and distressed, and before your very eyes 
 put to an open shame. You believe them when they lie; give credit to 
 them, then, when they speak the truth about themselves. No one plays 
 the liar to bring disgrace upon his own head, but for the sake of 
 honour rather. You give a readier confidence to people making 
 confessions against themselves, than denials in their own behalf. It 
 has not been an unusual thing, accordingly, for those testimonies of 
 your deities to convert men to Christianity; for in giving full 
 belief to them, we are led to believe in Christ. Yes, your very gods 
 kindle up faith in our Scriptures, they build up the confidence of 
 our hope. You do homage, as I 
 
know, to them also with the blood of Christians. On no account, 
 then, would they lose those who are so useful and dutiful to them, 
 anxious even to hold you fast, lest some day or other as Christians 
 you might put them to the rout,--if under the power of a follower of 
 Christ, who desires to prove to you the Truth, it were at all 
 possible for them to lie. 
 
CHAP. XXIV.
This whole confession of these beings, in which they declare that 
 they are not gods, and in which they tell you that there is no God 
 but one, the God whom we adore, is quite sufficient to clear us from 
 the crime of treason, chiefly against the Roman religion. For if it 
 is certain the gods have no existence, there is no religion in the 
 case. If there is no religion, because there are no gods, we are 
 assuredly not guilty of any offence against religion. Instead of 
 that, the charge recoils on your own head: worshipping a lie, you 
 are really guilty of the crime you charge on us, not merely by 
 refusing the true religion of the true God, but by going the further 
 length of persecuting it. But now, granting that these objects of 
 your worship are really gods, is it not generally held that there is 
 one higher and more potent, as it were the world's chief ruler, 
 endowed with absolute power and majesty? For the common way is to 
 apportion deity, giving an imperial and supreme domination to one, 
 while its offices are put into the hands of many, as Plato describes 
 great Jupiter in the 39 
 
heavens, surrounded by an array at once of deities and demons. It 
 behooves us, therefore, to show equal respect to the procurators, 
 prefects, and governors of the divine empire. And yet how great a 
 crime does he commit, who, with the object of gaining higher favour 
 with the Caesar, transfers his endeavours and his hopes to another, 
 and does not confess that the appellation of God as of Emperor 
 belongs only to the Supreme Head, when it is held a capital offence 
 among us to call, or hear called, by the highest title any other 
 than Caesar himself! Let one man worship God, another Jupiter; let 
 one lift suppliant hands to the heavens, another to the altar of 
 Fides; let one--if you choose to take this view of it--count in 
 prayer the clouds, and another the ceiling panels; let one 
 consecrate his own life to his God, and another that of a goat. For 
 see that you do not give a further ground for the charge of 
 irreligion, by taking away religious liberty, and forbidding free 
 choice of deity, so that I may no longer worship according to my 
 inclination, but am compelled to worship against it. Not even a 
 human being would care to have unwilling homage rendered him; and so 
 the very Egyptians have been permitted the legal use of their 
 ridiculous superstition, liberty to make gods of birds and beasts, 
 nay, to condemn to death any One who kills a god of their sort. 
 Every province even, and every city, has its god. Syria has Astarte, 
 Arabia has Dusares, the Norici have Belenus, Africa has its 
 Caelestis, Mauritania has its own princes. I have spoken, I think, 
 of Roman provinces, and yet I have not said their gods are Roman; 
 for they are not worshipped at Rome any more than others who are 
 ranked as deities over Italy itself by municipal consecration, such 
 as Delventinus of Casinum, Visidianus of Narnia, Ancharia of 
 Asculum, Nortia of Volsinii, Valentia of Ocriculum, Hostia of 
 Satrium, Father Curls of Falisci, in honour of whom, too, Juno got 
 her surname. In, fact, we alone are prevented having a religion of 
 our own. We give offence to the Romans, we are excluded from the 
 rights and privileges of Romans, because we do not worship the gods 
 of Rome. It is well that there is a God of all, whose we all are, 
 whether we will or no. But with you liberty is given to worship any 
 god but the true God, as though He were not rather the God all 
 should worship, to whom all belong. 
 
CHAP. XXV.
I think I have offered sufficient proof upon the question of 
 false and true divinity, having shown that the proof rests not 
 merely on debate and argument, but on the witness of the very beings 
 whom you believe are gods, so that the point needs no further 
 handling. However, having been led thus naturally to speak of the 
 Romans, I shall not avoid the controversy which is invited by the 
 groundless assertion of those who maintain that, as a reward of 
 their singular homage to religion, the Romans have been raised to 
 such heights of power as to have become masters of the world; and 
 that so certainly divine are the beings they worship, that those 
 prosper beyond all others, who beyond all others honour them. This, 
 forsooth, is the wages the gods have paid the Romans for their 
 devotion. The progress of the empire is to be ascribed to Sterculus, 
 the Mutunus, and Larentina! For I can hardly think that foreign gods 
 would have been disposed to show more favour to an alien race than 
 to their own, and given their own fatherland, in which they had 
 their birth, grew up to manhood, became illustrious, and at last 
 were buried, over to invaders from another shore! As for Cybele, if 
 she set her affections on the city of Rome as sprung of the Trojan 
 stock saved from the arms of Greece, she herself forsooth being of 
 the same race,--if she foresaw her transference to the avenging 
 people by whom Greece the conqueror of Phrygia was to be subdued, 
 let her look to it (in regard of her native country's conquest by 
 Greece). Why, too, even in these days the Mater Magna has given a 
 notable proof of her greatness which she has conferred as a boon 
 upon the city; when, after the loss to the State of Marcus Aurelius 
 at Sirmium, on the sixteenth before the Kalends of April, that most 
 sacred high priest of hers was offering, a week after, impure 
 libations of blood drawn from his own arms, and issuing his commands 
 that the ordinary prayers should be made for the safety of the 
 emperor already dead. O tardy messengers! O sleepy despatches! 
 through whose fault Cybele had not an earlier knowledge of the 
 imperial decease, that the Christians might have no occasion to 
 ridicule a goddess so unworthy. Jupiter, again, would surely never 
 have permitted his own Crete to fall at once before the Roman 
 Fasces, forgetful of that Idean cave and the Corybantian cymbals, 
 and the sweet odour of her who nursed him there. Would he not have 
 exalted his own tomb above the entire Capitol, that the land which 
 covered the ashes of Jove might rather be the mistress 40 
 
of the world? Would Juno have desired the destruction of the 
 Punic city, beloved even to the neglect of Samos, and that by a 
 nation of AEneadae? As to that I know, "Here were her arms, here was 
 her chariot, this kingdom, if the Fates permit, the goddess tends 
 and cherishes to be mistress of the nations." Jove's hapless wife 
 and sister had no power to prevail against the Fates! "Jupiter 
 himself is sustained by fate." And yet the Romans have never done 
 such homage to the Fates, which gave them Carthage against the 
 purpose and the will of Juno, as to the abandoned harlot Larentina. 
 It is undoubted that not a few of your gods have reigned on earth as 
 kings. If, then, they now possess the power of bestowing empire, 
 when they were kings themselves, from whence had they received their 
 kingly honours? Whom did Jupiter and Saturn worship? A Sterculus, I 
 suppose. But did the Romans, along with the native-born inhabitants, 
 afterwards adore also some who were never kings? In that case, 
 however, they were under the reign of others, who did not yet bow 
 down to them, as not yet raised to godhead. It belongs to others, 
 then, to make gift of kingdoms, since there were kings before these 
 gods had their names on the roll of divinities. But how utterly 
 foolish it is to attribute the greatness of the Roman name to 
 religious merits, since it was after Rome became an empire, or call 
 it still a kingdom, that the religion she professes made its chief 
 progress! Is it the case now? Has its religion been the source of 
 the prosperity of Rome? Though Numa set agoing an eagerness after 
 superstitious observances, yet religion among the Romans was not yet 
 a matter of images or temples. It was frugal in its ways, its rites 
 were simple, and there were no capitols struggling to the heavens; 
 but the altars were offhand ones of turf, and the sacred vessels 
 were yet of Samian earthen-ware, and from these the odours rose, and 
 no likeness of God was to be seen. For at that time the skill of the 
 Greeks and Tuscans in image-making had not yet overrun the city with 
 the products of their art. The Romans, therefore, were not 
 distinguished for their devotion to the gods before they attained to 
 greatness; and so their greatness was not the result of their 
 religion. 
 
Indeed, how could religion make a people great who have owed 
 their greatness to their irreligion? For, if I am not mistaken, 
 kingdoms and empires are acquired by wars, and are extended by 
 victories. More than that, you cannot have wars and victories 
 without the taking, and often the destruction, of cities. That is a 
 thing in which the gods have their share of calamity. Houses and 
 temples suffer alike; there is indiscriminate slaughter of priests 
 and citizens; the hand of rapine is laid equally upon sacred and on 
 common treasure. Thus the sacrileges of the Romans are as numerous 
 as their trophies. 
 
They boast as many triumphs over the gods as over the nations; as 
 many spoils of battle they have still, as there remain images of 
 captive deities. And the poor gods submit to be adored by their 
 enemies, and they ordain illimitable empire to those whose injuries 
 rather than their simulated homage should have had retribution at 
 their hands. But divinities unconscious are with impunity 
 dishonoured, just as in vain they are adored. You certainly never 
 can believe that devotion to religion has evidently advanced to 
 greatness a people who, as we have put it, have either grown by 
 injuring religion, or have injured religion by their growth. Those, 
 too, whose kingdoms have become part of the one great whole of the 
 Roman empire, were not without religion when their kingdoms were 
 taken from them. 
 
CHAP. XXVI.
Examine then, and see if He be not the dispenser of kingdoms, who 
 is Lord at once of the world which is ruled, and of man himself who 
 rules; if He have not ordained the changes of dynasties, with their 
 appointed seasons, who was before all time, and made the world a 
 body of times; if the rise and the fall of states are not the work 
 of Him, under whose sovereignty the human race once existed without 
 states at all. How do you allow yourselves to fall into such error? 
 Why, the Rome of rural simplicity is older than some of her gods; 
 she reigned before her proud, vast Capitol was built. The 
 Babylonians exercised dominion, too, before the days of the 
 Pontiffs; and the Medes before the Quindecemvirs; and the Egyptians 
 before the Salii; and the Assyrians before the Luperci; and the 
 Amazons before the Vestal Virgins. And to add another point: if the 
 religions of Rome give empire, ancient Judea would never have been a 
 kingdom, despising as it did one and all these idol deities; Judea, 
 whose God you Romans once honoured with victims, and its temple with 
 gifts, and its people with treaties; and which would never have been 
 beneath your sceptre but for that last and crowning offence against 
 God, in rejecting and crucifying Christ CHAP. XXVII.
Enough has been said in these remarks to confute the charge of 
 treason against your re 41 
 
ligion; for we cannot be held to do harm to that which has no 
 existence. When we are called therefore to sacrifice, we resolutely 
 refuse, relying on the knowledge we possess, by which we are well 
 assured of the real objects to whom these services are offered, 
 under profaning of images and the deification of human names. Some, 
 indeed, think it a piece of insanity that, when it is in our power 
 to offer sacrifice at once, and go away unharmed, holding as ever 
 our convictions we prefer an obstinate persistence in our confession 
 to our safety. You advise us, forsooth, to take unjust advantage of 
 you; but we know whence such suggestions come, who is at the bottom 
 of it all, and how every effort is made, now by cunning suasion, and 
 now by merciless persecution, to overthrow our constancy. No other 
 than that spirit, half devil and half angel, who, hating us because 
 of his own separation from God, and stirred with envy for the favour 
 God has shown us, turns your minds against us by an occult 
 influence, moulding and instigating them to all that perversity in 
 judgment, and that unrighteous cruelty, which we have mentioned at 
 the beginning of our work, when entering on this discussion. For, 
 though the whole power of demons and kindred spirits is subject to 
 us, yet still, as ill-disposed slaves sometimes conjoin contumacy 
 with fear, and delight to injure those of whom they at the same time 
 stand in awe, so is it here. For fear also inspires hatred. Besides, 
 in their desperate condition, as already under condemnation, it 
 gives them some comfort, while punishment delays, to have the 
 usufruct of their malignant dispositions. And yet, when hands are 
 laid on them, they are subdued at once, and submit to their lot; and 
 those whom at a distance they oppose, in close quarters they 
 supplicate for mercy. So when, like insurrectionary workhouses, or 
 prisons, or mines, or any such penal slaveries, they break forth 
 against us their masters, they know all the while that they are not 
 a match for us, and just on that account, indeed, rush the more 
 recklessly to destruction. We resist them, unwillingly, as though 
 they were equals, and contend against them by persevering in that 
 which they assail; and our triumph over them is never more complete 
 than when we are condemned for resolute adherence to our faith. 
 
CHAP. XXVIII.
But as it was easily seen to be unjust to compel freemen against 
 their will to offer sacrifice (for even in other acts of religious 
 service a willing mind is required), it should be counted quite 
 absurd for one man to compel another to do honour to the gods, when 
 he ought ever voluntarily, and in the sense of his own need, to seek 
 their favour, lest in the liberty which is his right he should be 
 ready to say, "I want none of Jupiter's favours; pray who art thou? 
 Let Janus meet me with angry looks, with whichever of his faces he 
 likes; what have you to do with me?" You have been led, no doubt, by 
 these same evil spirits to compel us to offer sacrifice for the 
 well-being of the emperor; and you are under a necessity of using 
 force, just as we are under an obligation to face the dangers of it. 
 This brings us, then, to the second ground of accusation, that we 
 are guilty of treason against a majesty more august; for you do 
 homage with a greater dread and an intenser reverence to Caesar, 
 than Olympian Jove himself. And if you knew it, upon sufficient 
 grounds. For is not any living man better than a dead one, whoever 
 he be? But this is not done by you on any other ground than regard 
 to a power whose presence you vividly realize; so that also in this 
 you are convicted of impiety to your gods, inasmuch as you show a 
 greater reverence to a human sovereignty than you do to them. Then, 
 too, among you, people far more readily swear a false oath in the 
 name of all the gods, than in the name of the single genius of 
 Caesar. 
 
CHAP. XXIX.
Let it be made clear, then, first of all, if those to whom 
 sacrifice is offered are really able to protect either emperor or 
 anybody else, and so adjudge us guilty of treason, if angels and 
 demons, spirits of most wicked nature, do any good, if the lost 
 save, if the condemned give liberty, if the dead (I refer to what 
 you know well enough) defend the living. For surely the first thing 
 they would look to would be the protection of their statues, and 
 images, and temples, which rather owe their safety, I think, to the 
 watch kept by Caesar's guards. Nay, I think the very materials of 
 which these are made come from Caesar's mines, and there is not a 
 temple but depends on Caesar's will. Yes, and many gods have felt 
 the displeasure of the Caesar. It makes for my argument if they are 
 also partakers of his favour, when he bestows on them some gift or 
 privilege. How shall they who are thus in Caesar's power, who belong 
 entirely to him, have Caesar's protection in their hands, so that 
 you can imagine them able to give to Caesar what they more readily 
 get from him? This, then, is the ground on which we are charged with 
 treason against the imperial majesty, to wit, that we do not put 42 
 
the emperors under their own possessions; that we do not offer a 
 mere mock service on their behalf, as not believing their safety 
 rests in leaden hands. But you are impious in a high degree who look 
 for it where it is not, who seek it from those who have it not to 
 give, passing by Him who has it entirely in His power. Besides this, 
 you persecute those who know where to seek for it, and who, knowing 
 where to seek for it, are able as well to secure it. 
 
CHAP. XXX.
For we offer prayer for the safety of our princes to the eternal, 
 the true, the living God, whose favour, beyond all others, they must 
 themselves desire. They know from whom they have obtained their 
 power; they know, as they are men, from whom they have received life 
 itself; they are convinced that He is God alone, on whose power 
 alone they are entirely dependent, to whom they are second, after 
 whom they occupy the highest places, before and above all the gods. 
 Why not, since they are above all living men, and the living, as 
 living, are superior to the dead? They reflect upon the extent of 
 their power, and so they come to understand the highest; they 
 acknowledge that they have all their might from Him against whom 
 their might is nought. Let the emperor make war on heaven; let him 
 lead heaven captive in his triumph; let him put guards on heaven; 
 let him impose taxes on heaven! He cannot. Just because he is less 
 than heaven, he is great. For he himself is His to whom heaven and 
 every creature appertains. He gets his sceptre where he first got 
 his humanity; his power where he got the breath of life. Thither we 
 lift our eyes, with hands outstretched, because free from sin; with 
 head uncovered, for we have nothing whereof to be ashamed; finally, 
 without a monitor, because it is from the heart we supplicate. 
 Without ceasing, for all our emperors we offer prayer. We pray for 
 life prolonged; for security to the empire; for protection to the 
 imperial house; for brave armies, a faithful senate, a virtuous 
 people, the world at rest, whatever, as man or Caesar, an emperor 
 would wish. These things I cannot ask from any but the God from whom 
 I know I shall obtain them, both because He alone bestows them and 
 because I have claims upon Him for their gift, as being a servant of 
 His, rendering homage to Him alone, persecuted for His doctrine, 
 offering to Him, at His own requirement, that costly and noble 
 sacrifice of prayer despatched from the chaste body, an unstained 
 soul, a sanctified spirit, not the few grains of incense a farthing 
 buys--tears of an Arabian tree,--not a few drops of wine,--not the 
 blood of some worthless ox to which death is a relief, and, in 
 addition to other offensive things, a polluted conscience, so that 
 one wonders, when your victims are examined by these vile priests, 
 why the examination is not rather of the sacrificers than the 
 sacrifices. With our hands thus stretched out and up to God, rend us 
 with your iron claws, hang us up on crosses, wrap us in flames, take 
 our heads from us with the sword, let loose the wild beasts on 
 us,--the very attitude of a Christian praying is one of preparation 
 for all punishment. Let this, good rulers, be your work: wring from 
 us the soul, beseeching God on the emperor's behalf. Upon the truth 
 of God, and devotion to His name, put the brand of crime. 
 
CHAP. XXXI.
But we merely, you say, flatter the emperor, and feign these 
 prayers of ours to escape persecution. Thank you for your mistake, 
 for you give us the opportunity of proving our allegations. Do you, 
 then, who think that we care nothing for the welfare of Caesar, look 
 into God's revelations, examine our sacred books, which we do not 
 keep in hiding, and which many accidents put into the hands of those 
 who are not of us. Learn from them that a large benevolence is 
 enjoined upon us, even so far as to supplicate God for our enemies, 
 and to beseech blessings on our persecutors. Who, then, are greater 
 enemies and persecutors of Christians, than the very parties with 
 treason against whom we are charged? Nay, even in terms, and most 
 clearly, the Scripture says, "Pray for kings, and rulers, and 
 powers, that all may be peace with you." For when there is 
 disturbance in the empire, if the commotion is felt by its other 
 members, surely we too, though we are not thought to be given to 
 disorder, are to be found in some place or other which the calamity 
 affects. 
 
CHAP. XXXII.
There is also another and a greater necessity for our offering 
 prayer in behalf of the emperors, nay, for the complete stability of 
 the empire, and for Roman interests in general. For we know that a 
 mighty shock im 43 
 
pending over the whole earth--in fact, the very end of all things 
 threatening dreadful woes---is only retarded by the continued 
 existence of the Roman empire. We have no desire, then, to be 
 overtaken by these dire events; and in praying that their coming may 
 be delayed, we are lending our aid to Rome's duration. More than 
 this, though we decline to swear by the genii of the Caesars, we 
 swear by their safety, which is worth far more than all your genii, 
 Are you ignorant that these genii are called "Daemones," and thence 
 the diminutive name "Daemonia" is applied to them? We respect in the 
 emperors the ordinance of God, who has set them over the nations. We 
 know that there is that in them which God has willed; and to what 
 God has willed we desire all safety, and we count an oath by it a 
 great oath. But as for demons, that is, your genii, we have been in 
 the habit of exorcising them, not of swearing by them, and thereby 
 conferring on them divine honour. 
 
CHAP. XXXIII.
But why dwell longer on the reverence and sacred respect of 
 Christians to the emperor, whom we cannot but look up to as called 
 by our Lord to his office? So that on valid grounds I might say 
 Caesar is more ours than yours, for our God has appointed him. 
 Therefore, as having this propriety in him, I 
 
do more than you for his welfare, not merely because I ask it of 
 Him who can give it, or because I ask it as one who deserves to get 
 it, but also because, in keeping the majesty of Caesar within due 
 limits, and putting it under the Most High, and making it less than 
 divine, I commend him the more to the favour of Deity, to whom I 
 make him alone inferior. But I place him in subjection to one I 
 regard as more glorious than himself. Never will I call the emperor 
 God, and that either because it is not in me to be guilty of 
 falsehood; or that I dare not turn him into ridicule; or that not 
 even himself will desire to have that high name applied to him. If 
 he is but a man, it is his interest as man to give God His higher 
 place. Let him think it enough to bear the name of emperor. That, 
 too, is a great name of God's giving. To call him God, is to rob him 
 of his title. If he is not a man, emperor he cannot be. 
 
Even when, amid the honours t of a triumph, he sits on that lofty 
 chariot, he a is reminded that he is only human. A voice t at his 
 back keeps whispering in his ear, n "Look behind thee; remember thou 
 art but u a man." And it only adds to his exultation, that he shines 
 with a glory so surpassing as to require an admonitory reference to 
 his condition. It adds to his greatness that he needs such a 
 reminiscence, lest he should think himself divine. 
 
CHAP. XXXIV.
Augustus, the founder of the empire, would not even have the 
 title Lord; for that, too, is a name of Deity. For my part, I am 
 willing to give the emperor this designation, but in the common 
 acceptation of the word, and when I am not forced to call him Lord 
 as in God's place. But my relation to him is one of freedom; for I 
 have but one true Lord, the God omnipotent and eternal, who is Lord 
 of the emperor as well. How can he, who is truly father of his 
 country, be its lord? The name of piety is more grateful than the 
 name of power; so the heads of families are called fathers rather 
 than lords. Far less should the emperor have the name of God. We can 
 only profess our belief that he is that by the most unworthy, nay, a 
 fatal flattery; it is just as if, having an emperor, you call 
 another by the name, in which case will you not give great and 
 unappeasable offence to him who actually reigns?--an offence he, 
 too, needs to fear on whom you have bestowed the title. Give all 
 reverence to God, if you wish Him to be propitious to the emperor. 
 Give up all worship of, and belief in, any other being as divine. 
 Cease also to give the sacred name to him who has need of God 
 himself. If such adulation is not ashamed of its lie, in addressing 
 a man as divine, let it have some dread at least of the evil omen 
 which it bears. It is the invocation of a curse, to give Caesar the 
 name of god before his apotheosis. 
 
CHAP. XXXV.
This is the reason, then, why Christians are counted public 
 enemies: that they pay no vain, nor false, nor foolish honours to 
 the emperor; that, as men believing in the true religion, they 
 prefer to celebrate their festal days with a good conscience, 
 instead of with the common wantonness. It is, forsooth, a notable 
 homage to bring fires and couches out before the public, to have 
 feasting from street to street, to turn the city into one great 
 tavern, to make mud with wine, to run in troops to acts of violence, 
 to deeds of shamelessness to lust allurements! What! is public joy 
 manifested by public disgrace? Do things unseemly at other times 
 beseem the festal days of princes? Do they who observe the rules of 
 virtue out of reverence for Caesar, for 44 
 
his sake turn aside from them? Shall piety be a license to 
 immoral deeds, and shall religion be regarded as affording the 
 occasion for all riotous extravagance? Poor we, worthy of all 
 condemnation! For why do we keep the votive days and high rejoicings 
 in honour of the Caesars with chastity, sobriety, and virtue? Why, 
 on the day of gladness, do we neither cover our door-posts with 
 laurels, nor intrude upon the day with lamps? It is a proper thing, 
 at the call of a public festivity, to dress your house up like some 
 new brothel. However, in the matter of this homage to a lesser 
 majesty, in reference to which we are accused of a lower sacrilege, 
 because we do not celebrate along with you the holidays of the 
 Caesars in a manner forbidden alike by modesty, decency, and 
 purity,--in truth they have been established rather as affording 
 opportunities for licentiousness than from any worthy motive;--in 
 this matter I am anxious to point out how faithful and true you are, 
 lest perchance here also those who will not have us counted Romans, 
 but enemies of Rome's chief rulers, be found themselves worse than 
 we wicked Christians! I appeal to the inhabitants of Rome 
 themselves, to the native population of the seven hills: does that 
 Roman vernacular of theirs ever spare a Caesar? The Tiber and the 
 wild beasts' schools bear witness. Say now if nature had covered our 
 hearts with a transparent substance through which the light could 
 pass, whose hearts, all graven over, would not betray the scene of 
 another and another Caesar presiding at the distribution of a 
 largess? And this at the very time they are shouting, "May Jupiter 
 take years from us, and with them lengthen like to you,"--words as 
 foreign to the lips of a Christian as it is out of keeping with his 
 character to desire a change of emperor. But this is the rabble, you 
 say; yet, as the rabble, they still are Romans, and none more 
 frequently than they demand the death of Christians. Of course, 
 then, the other classes, as befits their higher rank, are 
 religiously faithful. No breath of treason is there ever in the 
 senate, in the equestrian order, in the camp, in the palace. Whence, 
 then, came a Cassius, a Niger, an Albinus? Whence they who beset the 
 Caesar between the two laurel groves? Whence they who practised 
 wrestling, that they might acquire skill to strangle him? Whence 
 they who in full armour broke into the palace, more audacious than 
 all your Tigerii and Parthenii. If I mistake not, they were Romans; 
 that is, they were not Christians. Yet all of them, on the very eve 
 of their traitorous outbreak, offered sacrifices for the safety of 
 the emperor, and swore by his genius, one thing in profession, and 
 another in the heart; and no doubt they were in the habit of calling 
 Christians enemies of the state. Yes, and persons who are now daily 
 brought to light as confederates or approvers of these crimes and 
 treasons, the still remnant gleanings after a vintage of traitors, 
 with what verdant and branching laurels they clad their door-posts, 
 with what lofty and brilliant lamps they smoked their porches, with 
 what most exquisite and gaudy couches they divided the Forum among 
 themselves; not that they might celebrate public rejoicings, but 
 that they might get a foretaste of their own votive seasons in 
 partaking of the festivities of another, and inaugurate the model 
 and image of their hope, changing in their minds the emperor's name. 
 The same homage is paid, dutifully too, by those who consult 
 astrologers, and soothsayers, and augurs, and magicians, about the 
 life of the Caesars,--arts which, as made known by the angels who 
 sinned, and forbidden by God, Christians do not even make use of in 
 their own affairs. But who has any occasion to inquire about the 
 life of the emperor, if he have not some wish or thought against it, 
 or some hopes and expectations after it? For consultations of this 
 sort have not the same motive in the case of friends as in the case 
 of sovereigns. The anxiety of a kinsman is something very different 
 from that of a subject. 
 
CHAP. XXXVI.
If it is the fact that men bearing the name of Romans are found 
 to be enemies of Rome, why are we, on the ground that we are 
 regarded as enemies, denied the name of Romans? We may be at once 
 Romans and foes of Rome, when men passing for Romans are discovered 
 to be enemies of their country. So the affection, and fealty, and 
 reverence, due to the emperors do not consist in such tokens of 
 homage as these, which even hostility may be zealous in performing, 
 chiefly as a cloak to its purposes; but in those ways which Deity as 
 cerainly enjoins on us, as they are held to be necessary in the case 
 of all men as well as emperors. Deeds of true heart-goodness are not 
 due by us to emperors alone. We never do good with respect of 
 persons; for in our own interest we conduct ourselves as those who 
 take no payment either of praise or premium 45 
 
from man, but from God, who both requires and remunerates an 
 impartial benevolence. We are the same to emperors as to our 
 ordinary neighbors. For we are equally forbidden to wish ill, to do 
 ill, to speak ill, to think ill of all men. The thing we must not do 
 to an emperor, we must not do to any one else: what we would not do 
 tO anybody, a fortiori, perhaps we should not do to him whom God has 
 been pleased so highly to exalt. 
 
CHAP. XXXVII.
If we are enjoined, then, to love our enemies, as I have remarked 
 above, whom have we to hate? If injured, we are forbidden to 
 retaliate, lest we become as bad ourselves: who can suffer injury at 
 our hands? In regard to this, recall your own experiences. How often 
 you inflict gross cruelties on Christians, partly because it is your 
 own inclination, and partly in obedience to the laws! How often, 
 too, the hostile mob, paying no regard to you, takes the law into 
 its own hand, and assails us with stones and flames! With the very 
 frenzy of the Bacchanals, they do not even spare the Christian dead, 
 but tear them, now sadly changed, no longer entire, from the rest of 
 the tomb, from the asylum we might say of death, cutting them in 
 pieces, rending them asunder. Yet, banded together as we are, ever 
 so ready to sacrifice our lives, what single case of revenge for 
 injury are you able to point to, though, if it were held right among 
 us to repay evil by evil, a single night with a torch or two could 
 achieve an ample vengeance? But away with the idea of a sect divine 
 avenging itself by human fires, or shrinking from the sufferings in 
 which it is tried. If we desired, indeed, to act the part of open 
 enemies, not merely of secret avengers, would there be any lacking 
 in strength, whether of numbers or resources? The Moors, the 
 Marcomanni, the Parthians themselves, or any single people, however 
 great, inhabiting a distinct territory, and confined within its own 
 boundaries, surpasses, forsooth, in numbers, one spread over all the 
 world! We are but of yesterday, and we have filled every place among 
 you--cities, islands, fortresses, towns, market-places, the very 
 camp, tribes, companies, palace, senate, forum,--we have left 
 nothing to you but the temples of your gods. For what wars should we 
 not be fit, not eager, even with unequal forces, we who so willingly 
 yield ourselves to the sword, if in our religion it were not counted 
 better to be slain than to slay? Without arms even, and raising no 
 insurrectionary banner, but simply in enmity to you, we could carry 
 on the contest with you by an ill-willed severance alone. For if 
 such multitudes of men were to break away from you, and betake 
 themselves to some remote corner of the world, why, the very loss of 
 so many citizens, whatever sort they were, would cover the empire 
 with shame; nay, in the very forsaking, vengeance would be 
 inflicted. Why, you would be horror-struck at the solitude in which 
 you would find yourselves, at such an all-prevailing silence, and 
 that stupor as of a dead world. You would have to seek subjects to 
 govern. You would have more enemies than citizens remaining. For now 
 it is the immense number of Christians which makes your enemies so 
 few,--almost all the inhabitants of your various cities being 
 followers of Christ. Yet you choose to call us enemies of the human 
 race, rather than of human error. Nay, who would deliver you from 
 those secret foes, ever busy both destroying your souls and ruining 
 your health? Who would save you, I mean, from the attacks of those 
 spirits of evil, which without reward or hire we exorcise? This 
 alone would be revenge enough for us, that you were henceforth left 
 free to the possession of unclean spirits. But instead of taking 
 into account what is due to us for the important protection we 
 afford you, and though we are not merely no trouble to you, but in 
 fact necessary to your well-being, you prefer to hold us enemies, as 
 indeed we are, yet not of man, but rather of his error. 
 
CHAP. XXXVIII.
Ought not Christians, therefore, to receive not merely a somewhat 
 milder treatment, but to have a place among the law-tolerated 
 societies, seeing they are not chargeable with any such crimes as 
 are commonly dreaded from societies of the illicit class? For, 
 unless I mistake the matter, the prevention of such associations is 
 based on a prudential regard to public order, that the state may not 
 be divided into parties, which would naturally lead to disturbance 
 in the electoral assemblies, the councils, the curiae, the special 
 conventions, even in the public shows by the hostile collisions of 
 rival parties; especially when now, in pursuit of gain, men have 
 begun to consider their violence an article to be bought and sold. 
 But as those in whom all ardour in the pursuit of glory and honour 
 is dead, we have no pressing inducement to take part in your public 
 meetings; nor is there aught more entirely foreign to us than 
 affairs of state. We ac 46 
 
knowledge one all-embracing commonwealth--the world. We renounce 
 all your spectacles, as strongly as we renounce the matters 
 originating them, which we know were conceived of superstition, when 
 we give up the very things which are the basis of their 
 representations. Among us nothing is ever said, or seen, or heard, 
 which has anything in common with the madness of the circus, the 
 immodesty of the theatre, the atrocities of the arena, the useless 
 exercises of the wrestling-ground. Why do you take offence at us 
 because we differ from you in regard to your pleasures? If we will 
 not partake of your enjoyments, the loss is ours, if there be loss 
 in the case, not yours. We reject what pleases you. You, on the 
 other hand, have no taste for what is our delight. The Epicureans 
 were allowed by you to decide for themselves one true source of 
 pleasure--I mean equanimity the Christian, on his part, has many 
 such enjoyments--what harm in that? 
 
CHAP. XXXIX.
I shall at once go on, then, to exhibit the peculiarities of the 
 Christian society, that, as I have refuted the evil charged against 
 it, I may point out its positive good. We are a body knit together 
 as such by a common religious profession, by unity of discipline, 
 and by the bond of a common hope. We meet together as an assembly 
 and congregation, that, offering up prayer to God as with united 
 force, we may wrestle with Him in our supplications. This violence 
 God delights in. We pray, too, for the emperors, for their ministers 
 and for all in authority, for the welfare of the world, for the 
 prevalence of peace, for the delay of the final consummation. We 
 assemble to read our sacred writings, if any peculiarity of the 
 times makes either forewarning or reminiscence needful. However it 
 be in that respect, with the sacred words we nourish our faith, we 
 animate our hope, we make our confidence more stedfast; and no less 
 by inculcations of God's precepts we confirm good habits. In the 
 same place also exhortations are made, rebukes and sacred censures 
 are administered. For with a great gravity is the work of judging 
 carried on among us, as befits those who feel assured that they are 
 in the sight of God; and you have the most notable example of 
 judgment to come when any one has sinned so grievously as to require 
 his severance from us in prayer, in the congregation and in all 
 sacred intercourse. The tried men of our elders preside over us, 
 obtaining that honour not by purchase, but by established character. 
 There is no buying and selling of any sort in the things of God. 
 Though we have our treasure-chest, it is not made up of 
 purchase-money, as of a religion that has its price. On the monthly 
 day, if he likes, each puts in a small donation; but only if it be 
 his pleasure, and only if he be able: for there is no compulsion; 
 all is voluntary. These gifts are, as it were, piety's deposit fund. 
 For they are not taken thence and spent on feasts, and 
 drinking-bouts, and eating-houses, but to support and bury poor 
 people, to supply the wants of boys and girls destitute of means and 
 parents, and of old persons confined now to the house; such, too, as 
 have suffered shipwreck; and if there happen to be any in the mines, 
 or banished to the islands, or shut up in the prisons, for nothing 
 but their fidelity to the cause of God's Church, they become the 
 nurslings of their confession. But it is mainly the deeds of a love 
 so noble that lead many to put a brand upon us. See, they say, how 
 they love one another, for themselves are animated by mutual hatred; 
 how they are ready even to die for one another, for they themselves 
 will sooner put to death. And they are wroth with us, too, because 
 we call each other brethren; for no other reason, as I think, than 
 because among themselves names of consanguinity are assumed in mere 
 pretence of affection. But we are your brethren as well, by the law 
 of I our common mother nature, though you are hardly men, because 
 brothers so unkind. At the same time, how much more fittingly they 
 are called and counted brothers who have been led to the knowledge 
 of God as their common Father, who have drunk in one spirit of 
 holiness, who from the same womb of a common ignorance have agonized 
 into the same light of truth! But on this very account, perhaps, we 
 are regarded as having less claim to be held true brothers, that no 
 tragedy makes a noise about our brotherhood, or that the family 
 possessions, which generally destroy brotherhood among you, create 
 fraternal bonds among us. One in mind and soul, we do not hesitate 
 to share our earthly goods with one another. All things are common 
 among us but our wives. We give up our community where it is 
 practised alone by others, who not only take possession of the wives 
 of their friends, but most tolerantly also accommodate their friends 
 with theirs, following the example, I believe, 47 
 
of those wise men of ancient times, the Greek Socrates and the 
 Roman Cato, who shared with their friends the wives whom they had 
 married, it seems for the sake of progeny both to themselves and to 
 others; whether in this acting against their partners' wishes, I am 
 not able to say. Why should they have any care over their chastity, 
 when their husbands so readily bestowed it away? O 
 
noble example of Attic wisdom, of Roman gravity--the philosopher 
 and the censor playing pimps! What wonder if that great love of 
 Christians towards one another is desecrated by you! For you abuse 
 also our humble feasts, on the ground that they are extravagant as 
 well as infamously wicked. To us, it seems, applies the saying of 
 Diogenes: "The people of Megara feast as though they were going to 
 die on the morrow; they build as though they were never to die!" But 
 one sees more readily the mote in another's eye than the beam in his 
 own. Why, the very air is soured with the eructations of so many 
 tribes, and curioe, and decurioe. The Salii cannot have their feast 
 without going into debt; you must get the accountants to tell you 
 what the tenths of Hercules and the sacrificial banquets cost; the 
 choicest cook is appointed for the Apaturia, the Dionysia, the Attic 
 mysteries; the smoke from the banquet of Serapis will call out the 
 firemen. Yet about the modest supper-room of the Christians alone a 
 great ado is made. Our feast explains itself by its name The Greeks 
 call it agape, i.e., affection. Whatever it costs, our outlay in the 
 name of piety is gain, since with the good things of the feast we 
 benefit the needy; not as it is with you, do parasites aspire to the 
 glory of satisfying their licentious propensities, selling 
 themselves for a belly-feast to all disgraceful treatment,--but as 
 it is with God himself, a peculiar respect is shown to the lowly. If 
 the object of our feast be good, in the light of that consider its 
 further regulations. As it is an act of religious service, it 
 permits no vileness or immodesty. The participants, before 
 reclining, taste first of prayer to God. As much is eaten as 
 satisfies the cravings of hunger; as much is drunk as befits the 
 chaste. They say it is enough, as those who remember that even 
 during the night they have to worship God; they talk as those who 
 know that the Lord is one of their auditors. After manual ablution, 
 and the bringing in of lights, each is asked to stand forth and 
 sing, as he can, a hymn to God, either one from the holy Scriptures 
 or one of his own composing,--a proof of the measure of our 
 drinking. As the feast commenced with prayer, so with prayer it is 
 closed. We go from it, not like troops of mischief-doers, nor bands 
 of vagabonds, nor to break out into licentious acts, but to have as 
 much care of our modesty and chastity as if we had been at a school 
 of virtue rather than a banquet. Give the congregation of the 
 Christians its due, and hold it unlawful, if it is like assemblies 
 of the illicit sort: by all means let it be condemned, if any 
 complaint can be validly laid against it, such as lies against 
 secret factions. But who has ever suffered harm from our assemblies? 
 We are in our congregations just what we are when separated from 
 each other; we are as a community what we are individuals; we injure 
 nobody, we trouble nobody. When the upright, when the virtuous meet 
 together, when the pious, when the pure assemble in congregation, 
 you ought not to call that a faction, but a curia-- [i.e., the court 
 of God.] 
 
CHAP. XL.
On the contrary, they deserve the name of faction who conspire to 
 bring odium on good men and virtuous, who cry out against innocent 
 blood, offering as the justification of their enmity the baseless 
 plea, that they think the Christians the cause of every public 
 disaster, of every affliction with which the people are visited. If 
 the Tiber rises as high as the city walls, if the Nile does not send 
 its waters up over the fields, if the heavens give no rain, if there 
 is an earthquake, if there is famine or pestilence, straightway the 
 cry is, "Away with the Christians to the lion!" What! shall you give 
 such multitudes to a single beast? Pray, tell me how many calamities 
 befell the world and particular cities before Tiberius 
 reigned--before the coming, that is, of Christ? We read of the 
 islands of Hiera, and Anaphe, and Delos, and Rhodes, and Cos, with 
 many thousands of human beings, having been swallowed up. Plato 
 informs us that a region larger than Asia or Africa was seized by 
 the Atlantic Ocean. An earthquake, too, drank up the Corinthian sea; 
 and the force of the waves cut off a part of Lucania, whence it 
 obtained the name of Sicily. These things surely could not have 
 taken place without the inhabitants suffering by them. But where--I 
 do not say were Christians, those despisers of your gods--but where 
 were your gods themselves in those days, when the flood poured its 
 destroying waters over all the world, or, as Plato thought, merely 
 the level portion of it? For that they are of later date 48 
 
than that calamity, the very cities in which they were born and 
 died, nay, which they founed, bear ample testimony; for the cities 
 could have no existence at this day unless as belonging to 
 postdiluvian times. Palestine had not yet received from Egypt its 
 Jewish swarm (of emigrants), nor had the race from which Christians 
 sprung yet settled down there, when its neighbors Sodom and Gomorrah 
 were consumed by fire from heaven. The country yet smells of that 
 conflagration; and if there are apples there upon the trees, it is 
 only a promise to the eye they give--you but touch them, and they 
 turn to ashes. Nor had Tuscia and Campania to complain of Christians 
 in the days when fire from heaven overwhelmed Vulsinii, and Pompeii 
 was destroyed by fire from its own mountain. No one yet worshipped 
 the true God at Rome, when Hannibal at Cannae counted the Roman 
 slain by the pecks of Roman rings. Your gods were all objects of 
 adoration, universally acknowledged, when the Senones closely 
 besieged the very Capitol. And it is in keeping with all this, that 
 if adversity has at any time befallen cities, the temples and the 
 walls have equally shared in the disaster, so that it is clear to 
 demonstration the thing was not the doing of the gods, seeing it 
 also overtook themselves. The truth is, the human race has always 
 deserved ill at God's hand. First of all, as undutiful to Him, 
 because when it knew Him in part, it not only did not seek after 
 Him, but even invented other gods of its own to worship; and 
 further, because, as the result of their willing ignorance of the 
 Teacher of righteousness, the Judge and Avenger of sin, all vices 
 and crimes grew and flourished. But had men sought, they would have 
 come to know the glorious object of their seeking; and knowledge 
 would have produced obedience, and obedience would have found a 
 gracious instead of an angry God. They ought then to see that the 
 very same God is angry with them now as in ancient times, before 
 Christians were so much as spoken of. It was His blessings they 
 enjoyed--created before they made any of their deities: and why can 
 they not take it in, that their evils come from the Being whose 
 goodness they have failed to recognize? They suffer at the hands of 
 Him to whom they have been ungrateful. And, for all that is said, if 
 we compare the calamities of former times, they fall on us more 
 lightly now, since God gave Christians to the world; for from that 
 time virtue put some restraint on the world's wickedness, and men 
 began to pray for the averting of God's wrath. In a word, when the 
 summer clouds give no rain, and the season is matter of anxiety, you 
 indeed--full of feasting day by day, and ever eager for the banquet, 
 baths and taverns and brothels always busy--offer up to Jupiter your 
 rain-sacrifices; you enjoin on the people barefoot processions; you 
 seek heaven at the Capitol; you look up to the temple-ceilings for 
 the longed-for clouds--God and heaven not in all your thoughts. We, 
 dried up with fastings, and our passions bound tightly up, holding 
 back as long as possible from all the ordinary enjoyments of life, 
 rolling in sackcloth and ashes, assail heaven with our 
 importunities--touch God's heart--and when we have extorted divine 
 compassion, why, Jupiter gets all the honour! 
 
CHAP. XLI.
You, therefore, are the sources of trouble in human affairs; on 
 you lies the blame of public adversities, since you are ever 
 attracting them--you by whom God is despised and images are 
 worshipped. It should surely seem the more natural thing to believe 
 that it is the neglected One who is angry, and not they to whom all 
 homage is paid; or most unjustly they act, if, on account of the 
 Christians, they send trouble on their own devotees, whom they are 
 bound to keep clear of the punishments of Christians. But this, you 
 say, hits your God as well, since He permits His worshippers to 
 suffer on account of those who dishonour Him. But admit first of all 
 His providential arrangings, and you will not make this retort. For 
 He who once for all appointed an eternal judgment at the world's 
 close, does not precipitate the separation, which is essential to 
 judgment, before the end. Meanwhile He deals with all sorts of men 
 alike, so that all together share His favours and reproofs. His will 
 is, that outcasts and elect should have adversities and prosperities 
 in common, that we should have all the same experience of His 
 goodness and severity. Having learned these things from His own 
 lips, we love His goodness, we fear His wrath, while both by you are 
 treated with contempt; and hence the sufferings of life, so far as 
 it is our lot to be overtaken by them, are in our case gracious 
 admonitions, while in yours they are divine punishments. We indeed 
 are not the least put about: for, first, only one thing in this life 
 greatly concerns us, and that is, to get quickly out of it; and 
 next, if any adversity befalls us, it is laid to the door of your 
 transgressions. Nay, though we are likewise involved in troubles 
 because of our close connection with you, we are rather glad of it, 
 because we recognize in it divine foretellings, which, in fact, go 
 to confirm the confidence and faith of our hope. But if all the 49 
 
evils you endure are inflicted on you by the gods you worship out 
 of spite to us, why do you continue to pay homage to beings so 
 ungrateful, and unjust; who, instead of being angry with you, should 
 rather have been aiding and abetting you by persecuting 
 Christians--keeping you clear of their sufferings? 
 
CHAP. XLII.
But we are called to account as harm-doers on another ground, and 
 are accused of being useless in the affairs of life. How in all the 
 world can that be the case with people who are living among you, 
 eating the same food wearing the same attire, having the same 
 habits, under the same necessities of existence? We are not Indian 
 Brahmins or Gymnosophists, who dwell in woods and exile themselves 
 from ordinary human life. We do not forget the debt of gratitude we 
 owe to God, our Lord and Creator; we reject no creature of His 
 hands, though certainly we exercise restraint upon ourselves, lest 
 of any gift of His we make an immoderate or sinful use. So we 
 sojourn with you in the world, abjuring neither forum, nor shambles, 
 nor bath, nor booth, nor workshop, nor inn, nor weekly market, nor 
 any other places of commerce. We sail with you, and fight with you, 
 and till the ground with you; and in like manner we unite with you 
 in your traffickings--even in the various arts we make public 
 property of our works for your benefit. How it is we seem useless in 
 your ordinary business, living with you and by you as we do, I am 
 not able to understand. But if I do not frequent your religious 
 ceremonies, I 
 
am still on the sacred day a man. I do not at the Saturnalia 
 bathe myself at dawn, that I may not lose both day and night; yet I 
 bathe at a decent and healthful hour, which preserves me both in 
 heat and blood. I can be rigid and pallid like you after ablution 
 when I am dead. I do not recline in public at the feast of Bacchus, 
 after the manner of the beast-fighters at their final banquet. Yet 
 of your resources I partake, wherever I may chance to eat. I do not 
 buy a crown for my head. What matters it to you how I use them, if 
 nevertheless the flowers are purchased? I think it more agreeable to 
 have them free and loose, waving all about. Even if they are woven 
 into a crown, we smell the crown with our nostrils: let those look 
 to it who scent the perfume with their hair. We do not go to your 
 spectacles; yet the articles that are sold there, if I need them, I 
 will obtain more readily at their proper places. 
 
We certainly buy no frankincense. If the Arabias complain of 
 this, let the Sabaeans be well assured that their more precious and 
 costly merchandise is expended as largely in the burying of 
 Christians as in the fumigating of the gods. At any rate, you say, 
 the temple revenues are every day falling off: how few now throw in 
 a contribution! In truth, we are not able to give alms both to your 
 human and your heavenly mendicants; nor do we think that we are 
 required to give any but to those who ask for it. Let Jupiter then 
 hold out his hand and get, for our compassion spends more in the 
 streets than yours does in the temples. But your other taxes will 
 acknowledge a debt of gratitude to Christians; for in the 
 faithfulness which keeps us from fraud upon a brother, we make 
 conscience of paying all their dues: so that, by ascertaining how 
 much is lost by fraud and falsehood in the census declarations--the 
 calculation may easily be made--it would be seen that the ground of 
 complaint in one department of revenue is compensated by the 
 advantage which others derive. 
 
CHAP. XLIII.
I will confess, however, without hesitation, that there are some 
 who in a sense may complain of Christians that they are a sterile 
 race: as, for instance, pimps, and panders, and bath-suppliers; 
 assassins, and poisoners, and sorcerers; soothsayers, too, diviners, 
 and astrologers. But it is a noble fruit of Christians, that they 
 have no fruits for such as these. And yet, whatever loss your 
 interests suffer from the religion we profess, the protection you 
 have from us makes amply up for it. What value do you set on 
 persons, I do not here urge who deliver you from demons, I do not 
 urge who for your sakes present prayers before the throne of the 
 true God, for perhaps you have no belief in that--but from whom you 
 can have nothing to fear? 
 
CHAP. XLIV.
Yes, and no one considers what the loss is to the common weal,--a 
 loss as great as it is real, no one estimates the injury entailed 
 upon the state, when, men of virtue as we are, we are put to death 
 in such numbers; when so many of the truly good suffer the last 
 penalty. And here we call your own acts to witness, you who are 
 daily presiding at the trials of prisoners, and passing sentence 
 upon crimes. Well, in your long lists of those ac 50 
 
cased of many and various atrocities, has any assassin, any 
 cutpurse, any man guilty of sacrilege, or seduction, or stealing 
 bathers' clothes, his name entered as being a Christian too? Or when 
 Christians are brought before you on the mere ground of their name, 
 is there ever found among them an ill-doer of the sort? It is always 
 with your folk the prison is steaming, the mines are sighing, the 
 wild beasts are fed: it is from you the exhibitors of gladiatorial 
 shows always get their herds of criminals to feed up for the 
 occasion. You find no Christian there, except simply as being such; 
 or if one is there as something else, a Christian he is no longer. 
 
CHAP. XLV.
We, then, alone are without crime. Is there ought wonderful in 
 that, if it be a very necessity with us? For a necessity indeed it 
 is. Taught of God himself what goodness is, we have both a perfect 
 knowledge of it as revealed to us by a perfect Master; and 
 faithfully we do His will, as enjoined on us by a Judge we dare not 
 despise. But your ideas of virtue you have got from mere human 
 opinion; on human authority, too, its obligation rests: hence your 
 system of practical morality is deficient, both in the fulness and 
 authority requisite to produce a life of real virtue. Man's wisdom 
 to point out what is good, is no greater than his authority to exact 
 the keeping of it; the one is as easily deceived as the other is 
 despised. And so, which is the ampler rule, to say, "Thou shalt not 
 kill," or to teach, "Be not even angry?" Which is more perfect, to 
 forbid adultery, or to restrain from even a single lustful look? 
 
Which indicates the higher intelligence, interdicting evil-doing, 
 or evil-speaking? Which is more thorough, not allowing an injury, or 
 not even suffering an injury done to you to be repaid? Though withal 
 you know that these very laws also of yours, which seem to lead to 
 virtue, have been borrowed from the law of God as the ancient model. 
 Of the age of Moses we have already spoken. But what is the real 
 authority of human laws, when it is in man's power both to evade 
 them, by generally managing to hide himself out of sight in his 
 crimes, and to despise them sometimes, if inclination or necessity 
 leads him to offend? Think of these things, too, in the light of the 
 brevity of any punishment you can inflict--never to last longer than 
 till death. On this ground Epicurus makes light of all suffering and 
 pain, maintaining that if it is small, it is contemptible; and if it 
 is great, it is not long-continued. No doubt about it, we, who 
 receive our awards under the judgment of an all-seeing God, and who 
 look forward to eternal punishment from Him for sin,--we alone make 
 real effort to attain a blameless life, under the influence of our 
 ampler knowledge, the impossibility of concealment, and the 
 greatness of the threatened torment, not merely long-enduring but 
 everlasting, fearing Him, whom he too should fear who the fearing 
 judges,--even God, I 
 
mean, and not the proconsul. 
 
CHAP. XLVI.
We have sufficiently met, as I think, the accusation of the 
 various crimes on the ground of which these fierce demands are made 
 for Christian blood. We have made a full exhibition of our case; and 
 we have shown you how we are able to prove that our statement is 
 correct, from the trustworthiness, I mean, and antiquity of our 
 sacred writings, and from the confession likewise of the powers of 
 spiritual wickedness themselves. Who will venture to undertake our 
 refutation; not with skill of words, but, as we have managed our 
 demonstration, on the basis of reality? But while the truth we hold 
 is made clear to all, unbelief meanwhile, at the very time it is 
 convinced of the worth of Christianity, which has now become well 
 known for its benefits as well as from the intercourse of life, 
 takes up the notion that it is not really a thing divine, but rather 
 a kind of philosophy. These are the very things, it says, the 
 philosophers counsel and profess--innocence, justice, patience, 
 sobriety, chastity. Why, then, are we not permitted an equal liberty 
 and impunity for our doctrines as they have, with whom, in respect 
 of what we teach, we are compared? or why are not they, as so like 
 us, not pressed to the same offices, for declining which our lives 
 are imperilled? For who compels a philosopher to sacrifice or take 
 an oath, or put out useless lamps at midday? Nay, they openly 
 overthrow your gods, and in their writings they attack your 
 superstitions; and you applaud them for it. Many of them even, with 
 your countenance, bark out against your rulers, and are rewarded 
 with statues and salaries, instead of being given to the wild 
 beasts. And very right it should be so. For they are called 
 philosophers, not Christians. This name of philosopher has no power 
 to put demons to the rout. Why are they not able to do that too? 
 since philosophers count demons inferior to gods. Socrates used to 
 say, "If the demon grant permission." Yet 51 
 
he, too, though in denying the existence of your divinities he 
 had a glimpse of the truth, at his dying ordered a cock to be 
 sacrificed to Aesculapius, I 
 
believe in honour of his father, for Apollo pronounced Socrates 
 the wisest of men. Thoughtless Apollo! testifying to the wisdom of 
 the man who denied the existence of his race. In proportion to the 
 enmity the truth awakens, you give offence by faithfully standing by 
 it; but the man who corrupts and makes a mere pretence of it 
 precisely on this ground gains favour with its persecutors. The 
 truth which philosophers, these mockers and corrupters of it, with 
 hostile ends merely affect to hold, and in doing so deprave, caring 
 for nought but glory, Christians both intensely and intimately long 
 for and maintain in its integrity, as those who have a real concern 
 about their salvation. So that we are like each other neither in our 
 knowledge nor our ways, as you imagine. For what certain information 
 did Thales, the first of natural philosophers, give in reply to the 
 inquiry of Croesus regarding Deity, the delay for further thought so 
 often proving in vain? There is not a Christian workman but finds 
 out God, and manifests Him, and hence assigns to Him all those 
 attributes which go to constitute a divine being, though Plato 
 affirms that it is far from easy to discover the Maker of the 
 universe; and when He is found, it is difficult to make Him known to 
 all. But if we challenge you to comparison in the virtue of 
 chastity, I turn to a part of the sentence passed by the Athenians 
 against Socrates, who was pronounced a corrupter of youth. The 
 Christian confines himself to the female sex. I have read also how 
 the harlot Phryne kindled in Diogenes the fires of lust, and how a 
 certain Speusippus, of Plato's school, perished in the adulterous 
 act. The Christian husband has nothing to do with any but his own 
 wife. Democritus, in putting out his eyes, because he could not look 
 on women without lusting after them, and was pained if his passion 
 was not satisfied, owns plainly, by the punishment he inflicts, his 
 incontinence. But a Christian with grace-healed eyes is sightless in 
 this matter; he is mentally blind against the assaults of passion. 
 If I maintain our superior modesty of behaviour, there at once 
 occurs to me Diogenes with filth-covered feet trampling on the proud 
 couches of Plato, under the influence of another pride: the 
 Christian does not even play the proud man to the pauper. If 
 sobriety of spirit be the virtue in debate, why, there are 
 Pythagoras at Thurii, and Zeno at Priene, ambitious of the supreme 
 power: the Christian does not aspire to the aedileship. If 
 equanimity be the contention, you have Lycurgus choosing death by 
 self-starvation, because the Lacons had made some emendation of his 
 laws: the Christian, even when he is condemned, gives thanks. If the 
 comparison be made in regard to trustworthiness, Anaxagoras denied 
 the deposit of his enemies: the Christian is noted for his fidelity 
 even among those who are not of his religion. If the matter of 
 sincerity is to be brought to trial, Aristotle basely thrust his 
 friend Hermias from his place: the Christian does no harm even to 
 his foe. 
 
With equal baseness does Aristotle play the sycophant to 
 Alexander, instead of exercising to keep him in the right way, and 
 Plato allows himself to be bought by Dionysius for his belly's sake. 
 Aristippus in the purple, with all his great show of gravity, gives 
 way to extravagance; and Hippias is put to death laying plots 
 against the state: no Christian ever attempted such a thing in 
 behalf of his brethren, even when persecution was scattering them 
 abroad with every atrocity. But it will be said that some of us, 
 too, depart from the rules of our discipline. In that case, however, 
 we count them no longer Christians; but the philosophers who do such 
 things retain still the name and the honour of wisdom. So, then, 
 where is there any likeness between the Christian and the 
 philosopher? between the disciple of Greece and of heaven? 
 
between the man whose object is fame, and whose object is life? 
 between the talker and he doer? between the man who builds up and 
 the man who pulls down? 
 
between the friend and the foe of error? between one who corrupts 
 the truth, and one who restores and teaches it? between its chief 
 and its custodier? 
 
CHAP. XLVII.
Unless I am utterly mistaken, there is nothing so old as the 
 truth; and the already proved antiquity of the divine writings is so 
 far of use to me, that it leads men more easily to take it in that 
 they are the treasure-source whence all later wisdom has been taken. 
 And were it not necessary to keep my work to a moderate size, I 
 might launch forth also into the proof of this. What poet or sophist 
 has not drunk at the fountain of the prophets? Thence, accordingly, 
 the philosophers watered their arid minds, so that it is the things 
 they 52 
 
have from us which bring us into comparison with them. For this 
 reason, I imagine, philosophy was banished by certain states--I mean 
 by the Thebans, by the Spartans also, and the Argives--its disciples 
 sought to imitate our doctrines; and ambitious, as I have said, of 
 glory and eloquence alone, if they fell upon anything in the 
 collection of sacred Scriptures which displeased them, in their own 
 peculiar style of research, they perverted it to serve their 
 purpose: for they had no adequate faith in their divinity to keep 
 them from changing them, nor had they any sufficient understanding 
 of them, either, as being still at the time under veil--even obscure 
 to the Jews themselves, whose peculiar possession they seemed to be. 
 For so, too, if the truth was distinguished by its simplicity, the 
 more on that account the fastidiousness of man, too proud to 
 believe, set to altering it; so that even what they found certain 
 they made uncertain by their admixtures. Finding a simple revelation 
 of God, they proceeded to dispute about Him, not as He had revealed 
 to them, but turned aside to debate about His properties, His 
 nature, His abode. Some assert Him to be incorporeal; others 
 maintain He has a body,--the Platonists teaching the one doctrine, 
 and the Stoics the other. Some think that He is composed of atoms, 
 others of numbers: such are the different views of Epicurus and 
 Pythagoras. One thinks He is made of fire; so it appeared to 
 Heraclitus. The Platonists, again, hold that He administers the 
 affairs of the world; the Epicureans, on the contrary, that He is 
 idle and inactive, and, so to speak, a nobody in human things. Then 
 the Stoics represent Him as placed outside the world, and whirling 
 round this huge mass from without like a potter; while the 
 Platonists place Him within the world, as a pilot is in the ship he 
 steers. So, in like manner, they differ in their views about the 
 world itself, whether it is created or uncreated, whether it is 
 destined to pass away or to remain for ever. So again it is debated 
 concerning the nature of the soul, which some contend is divine and 
 eternal, while others hold that it is dissoluble. According to each 
 one's fancy, He has introduced either something new, or refashioned 
 the old. Nor need we wonder if the speculations of philosophers have 
 perverted the older Scriptures. Some of their brood, with their 
 opinions, have even adulterated our new-given Christian revelation, 
 and corrupted it into a system of philosophic doctrines, and from 
 the one path have struck off many and inexplicable by-roads. And I 
 have alluded to this, lest any one becoming acquainted with the 
 variety of parties among us, this might seem to him to put us on a 
 level with the philosophers, and he might condemn the truth from the 
 different ways in which it is defended. But we at once put in a plea 
 in bar against these tainters of our purity, asserting that this is 
 the rule of truth which comes down from Christ by transmission 
 through His companions, to whom we shall prove that those devisers 
 of different doctrines are all posterior. Everything opposed to the 
 truth has been got up from the truth itself, the spirits of error 
 carrying on this system of opposition. By them all corruptions of 
 wholesome discipline have been secretly instigated; by them, too, 
 certain fables have been introduced, that, by their resemblance to 
 the truth, they might impair its credibility, or vindicate their own 
 higher claims to faith; so that people might think Christians 
 unworthy of credit because the poets or philosophers are so, or 
 might regard the poets and philosophers as worthier of confidence 
 from their not being followers of Christ. Accordingly, we get 
 ourselves laughed at for proclaiming that God will one day judge the 
 world. For, like us, the poets and philosophers set up a 
 judgment-seat in the realms below. And if we threaten Gehenna, which 
 is a reservoir of secret fire under the earth for purposes of 
 punishment, we have in the same way derision heaped on us. For so, 
 too, they have their Pyriphlegethon, a river of flame in the regions 
 of the dead. And if we speak of Paradise, the place of heavenly 
 bliss appointed to receive the spirits of the saints, severed from 
 the knowledge of this world by that fiery zone as by a sort of 
 enclosure, the Elysian plains have taken possession of their faith. 
 Whence is it, I pray you have all this, so like us, in the poets and 
 philosophers? The reason simply is, that they have been taken from 
 our religion. But if they are taken from our sacred things, as being 
 of earlier date, then ours are the truer, and have higher claims 
 upon belief, since even their imitations find faith among you. If 
 they maintain their sacred mysteries to have sprung from their own 
 minds, in that case ours will be reflections of what are later than 
 themselves, which by the nature of things is impossible, for never 
 does the shadow precede the body which casts it, or the image the 
 reality. 
 
CHAP. XLVIII.
Come now, if some philosopher affirms, as 53 
 
Laberius holds, following an opinion of Pythagoras, that a man 
 may have his origin from a mule, a serpent from a woman, and with 
 skill of speech twists every argument to prove his view, will he not 
 gain acceptance for and work in some the conviction that, on account 
 of this, they should even abstain from eating animal food? May any 
 one have the persuasion that he should so abstain, lest by chance in 
 his beef he eats of some ancestor of his? But if a Christian 
 promises the return of a man from a man, and the very actual Gaius 
 from Gaius, the cry of the people will be to have him stoned; they 
 will not even so much as grant him a hearing. If there is any ground 
 for the moving to and fro of human souls into different bodies, why 
 may they not return into the very substance they have left, seeing 
 this is to be restored, to be that which had been? They are no 
 longer the very things they had been; for they could not be what 
 they were not, without first ceasing to be what they had been. If we 
 were inclined to give all rein upon this point, discussing into what 
 various beasts one and another might probably be changed, we would 
 need at our leisure to take up many points. But this we would do 
 chiefly in our own defence, as setting forth what is greatly 
 worthier of belief, that a man will come back from a man--any given 
 person from any given person, still retaining his humanity; so that 
 the soul, with its qualities unchanged, may be restored to the same 
 condition, thought not to the same outward framework. Assuredly, as 
 the reason why restoration takes place at all is the appointed 
 judgment, every man must needs come forth the very same who had once 
 existed, that he may receive at God's hands a judgment, whether of 
 good desert or the opposite. And therefore the body too will appear; 
 for the soul is not capable of suffering without the solid substance 
 (that is, the flesh; and for this reason, also) that it is not right 
 that souls should have all the wrath of God to bear: they did not 
 sin without the body, within which all was done by them. But how, 
 you say, can a substance which has been dissolved be made to 
 reappear again? Consider thyself, O man, and thou wilt believe in 
 it! Reflect on what you were before you came into existence. 
 Nothing. For if you had been anything, you would have remembered it. 
 You, then, who were nothing before you existed, reduced to nothing 
 also when you cease to be, why may you not come into being again out 
 of nothing, at the will of the same Creator whose will created you 
 out of nothing at the first? Will it be anything new in your case? 
 You who were not, were made; when you cease to be again, you shall 
 be made. Explain, if you can, your original creation, and then 
 demand to know how you shall be re-created. Indeed, it will be still 
 easier surley to make you what you were once, when the very same 
 creative power made you without difficulty what you never were 
 before. There will be doubts, perhaps, as to the power of God, of 
 Him who hung in its place this huge body of our world, made out of 
 what had never existed, as from a death of emptiness and inanity, 
 animated by the Spirit who quickens all living things, its very self 
 the unmistakable type of the resurrection, that it might be to you a 
 witness--nay, the exact image of the resurrection. Light, every day 
 extinguished, shines out again; and, with like alternation, darkness 
 succeeds light's outgoing. The defunct stars re-live; the seasons, 
 as soon as they are finished, renew their course; the fruits are 
 brought to maturity, and then are reproduced. The seeds do not 
 spring up with abundant produce, save as they rot and dissolve 
 away;--all things are preserved by perishing, all things are 
 refashioned out of death. 
 
Thou, man of nature so exalted, if thou understandest thyself, 
 taught even by the Pythian words, lord of all these things that die 
 and rise,--shalt thou die to perish evermore? Wherever your 
 dissolution shall have taken place, whatever material agent has 
 destroyed you, or swallowed you up, or swept you away, or reduced 
 you to nothingness, it shall again restore you. Even nothingness is 
 His who is Lord of all. You ask, Shall we then be always dying, and 
 rising up from death? If so the Lord of all things had appointed, 
 you would have to submit, though unwillingly, to the law of your 
 creation. But, in fact, He has no other purpose than that of which 
 He has informed us. The Reason which made the universe out of 
 diverse elements, so that all things might be composed of opposite 
 substances in unity--of void and solid, of animate and inanimate, of 
 comprehensible and incomprehensible, of light and darkness, of life 
 itself and death--has also disposed time into order, by fixing and 
 distinguishing its mode, according to which this first portion of 
 it, which we inhabit from the beginning of the world, flows down by 
 a temporal course to a close; but the portion which succeeds, and to 
 which we look forward continues forever. When, therefore, the 
 boundary 54 
 
and limit, that millennial interspace, has been passed, when even 
 the outward fashion of the world itself--which has been spread like 
 a veil over the eternal economy, equally a thing of time--passes 
 away, then the whole human race shall be raised again, to have its 
 dues meted out according as it has merited in the period of good or 
 evil, and thereafter to have these paid out through the immeasurable 
 ages of eternity. Therefore after this there is neither death nor 
 repeated resurrections, but we shall be the same that we are now, 
 and still unchanged--the servants of God, ever with God, clothed 
 upon with the proper substance of eternity; but the profane, and all 
 who are not true worshippers of God, in like manner shall be 
 consigned to the punishment of everlasting fire--that fire which, 
 from its very nature indeed, directly ministers to their 
 incorruptibility. The philosophers are familiar as well as we with 
 the distinction between a common and a secret fire. Thus that which 
 is in common use is far different from that which we see in divine 
 judgments, whether striking as thunderbolts from heaven, or bursting 
 up out of the earth through mountain-tops; for it does not consume 
 what it scorches, but while it burns it repairs. So the mountains 
 continue ever burning; and a person struck by lighting is even now 
 kept safe from any destroying flame. A notable proof this of the 
 fire eternal! a notable example of the endless judgment which still 
 supplies punishment with fuel! The mountains burn, and last. How 
 will it be with the wicked and the enemies of God? 
 
CHAP. XLIX.
These are what are called presumptuous speculations in our case 
 alone; in the philosophers and poets they are regarded as sublime 
 speculations and illustrious discoveries. They are men of wisdom, we 
 are fools. They are worthy of all honour, we are folk to have the 
 finger pointed at; nay, besides that, we are even to have 
 punishments inflicted on us. But let things which are the defence of 
 virtue, if you will, have no foundation, and give them duly the name 
 of fancies, yet still they are necessary; let them be absurd if you 
 will, yet they are of use: they make all who believe them better men 
 and women, under the fear of never-ending punishment and the hope of 
 never-ending bliss. 
 
It is not, then, wise to brand as false, nor to regard as absurd, 
 things the truth of which it is expedient to presume. On no ground 
 is it right positively to condemn as bad what beyond all doubt is 
 profitable. Thus, in fact, you are guilty of the very presumption of 
 which you accuse us, in condemning what is useful. It is equally out 
 of the question to regard them as nonsensical; at any rate, if they 
 are false and foolish, they hurt nobody. For they are just (in that 
 case) like many other things on which you inflict no 
 penalties--foolish and fabulous things, I mean, which, as quite 
 innocuous, are never charged as crimes or punished. But in a thing 
 of the kind, if this be so indeed, we should be adjudged to 
 ridicule, not to swords, and flames, and crosses, and wild beasts, 
 in which iniquitous cruelty not only the blinded populace exults and 
 insults over us, but in which some of you too glory, not scrupling 
 to gain the popular favour by your injustice. As though all you can 
 do to us did not depend upon our pleasure. It is assuredly a matter 
 of my own inclination, being a Christian. Your condemnation, then, 
 will only reach me in that case, if I wish to be condemned; but when 
 all you can do to me, you can do only at my will, all you can do is 
 dependent on my will, and is not in your power. The joy of the 
 people in our trouble is therefore utterly reasonless. 
 
For it is our joy they appropriate to themselves, since we would 
 far rather be condemned than apostatize from God; on the contrary, 
 our haters should be sorry rather than rejoice, as we have obtained 
 the very thing of our own choice. 
 
CHAP. L.
In that case, you say, why do you complain of our persecutions? 
 You ought rather to be grateful to us for giving you the sufferings 
 you want. Well, it is quite true that it is our desire to suffer, 
 but it is in the way that the soldier longs for war. No one indeed 
 suffers willingly, since suffering necessarily implies fear and 
 danger. Yet the man who objected to the conflict, both fights with 
 all his strength, and when victorious, he rejoices in the battle, 
 because he reaps from it glory and spoil. It is our battle to be 
 summoned to your tribunals that there, under fear of execution, we 
 may battle for the truth. But the day is won when the object of the 
 struggle is gained. This victory of ours gives us the glory of 
 pleasing God, and the spoil of life eternal. But we are overcome. 
 Yes, when we have obtained our wishes. Therefore we conquer in 
 dying; we go forth victorious at the very time we are subdued. Call 
 us, if you like, Sarmenticii and Semaxii, because, bound to a 
 half-axle stake, 55 
 
we are burned in a circle-heap of fagots. This is the attitude in 
 which we conquer, it is our victory-robe, it is for us a sort of 
 triumphal, car. Naturally enough, therefore, we do not please the 
 vanquished; on account of this, indeed, we are counted a desperate, 
 reckless race. But the very desperation and recklessness you object 
 to in us, among yourselves lift high the standard of virtue in the 
 cause of glory and of fame. Mucius of his own will left his right 
 hand on the altar: what sublimity of mind! Empedocles gave his whole 
 body at Catana to the fires of AEtna: what mental resolution! A 
 certain foundress of Carthage gave herself away in second marriage 
 to the funeral pile: what a noble witness of her chastity! Regulus, 
 not wishing that his one life should count for the lives of many 
 enemies, endured these crosses over all his frame: how brave a 
 man--even in captivity a conqueror! Anaxarchus, when he was being 
 beaten to death by a barley-pounder, cried out, "Beat on, beat on at 
 the case of Anaxarchus; no stroke falls on Anaxarchus himself." O 
 magnanimity of the philosopher, who even in such an end had jokes 
 upon his lips! I omit all reference to those who with their own 
 sword, or with any other milder form of death, have bargained for 
 glory. Nay, see how even torture contests are crowned by you. The 
 Athenian courtezan, having wearied out the executioner, at last bit 
 off her tongue and spat it in the face of the raging tyrant, that 
 she might at the same time spit away her power of speech, nor be 
 longer able to confess her fellow-conspirators, if even overcome, 
 that might be her inclination. Zeno the Eleatic, when he was asked 
 by Dionysius what good philosophy did, on answering that it gave 
 contempt of death, was all unquailing, given over to the tyrant's 
 scourge, and sealed his opinion even to the death. We all know how 
 the Spartan lash, applied with the utmost cruelty under the very 
 eyes of friends encouraging, confers on those who bear it honor 
 proportionate to the blood which the young men shed. O glory 
 legitimate, because it is human, for whose sake it is counted 
 neither reckless foolhardiness, nor desperate obstinacy, to despise 
 death itself and all sorts of savage treatment; for whose sake you 
 may for your native place, for the empire, for friendship, endure 
 all you are forbidden to do for God! And you cast statues in honour 
 of persons such as these, and you put inscriptions upon images, and 
 cut out epitaphs on tombs, that their names may never perish. In so 
 far you can by your monuments, you yourselves afford a son of 
 resurrection to the dead. Yet he who expects the true resurrection 
 from God, is insane, if for God he suffers! But go zealously on, 
 good presidents, you will stand higher with the people if you 
 sacrifice the Christians at their wish, kill us, torture us, condemn 
 us, grind us to dust; your injustice is the proof that we are 
 innocent. Therefore God suffers that we thus suffer; for but very 
 lately, in condemning a Christian woman to the law rather than to 
 the leo you made confession that a taint on our purity is considered 
 among us something more terrible than any punishment and any death. 
 Nor does your cruelty, however exquisite, avail you; it is rather a 
 temptation to us. The oftener we are mown down by you, the more in 
 number we grow; the blood of Christians is seed. Many of your 
 writers exhort to the courageous bearing of pain and death, as 
 Cicero in the Tusculans, as Seneca in his Chances, as Diogenes, 
 Pyrrhus, Callinicus; and yet their words do not find so many 
 disciples as Christians do, teachers not by words, but by their 
 deeds. That very obstinacy you rail against is the preceptress. For 
 who that contemplates it, is not excited to inquire what is at the 
 bottom of it? who, after inquiry, does not embrace our doctrines? 
 and when he has embraced them, desires not to suffer that he may 
 become partaker of the fulness of God's grace, that he may obtain 
 from God complete forgiveness, by giving in exchange his blood? For 
 that secures the remission of all offences. On this account it is 
 that we return thanks on the very spot for your sentences. As the 
 divine and human are ever opposed to each other, when we are 
 condemned by you, we are acquitted by the Highest. 

