
Tertullian












TERTULLIAN 
AGAINST HERMOGENES.
CONTAINING AN ARGUMENT AGAINST HIS OPINION THAT MATTER IS
ETERNAL.
[TRANSLATED BY DR. HOLMES.]
CHAP.I.--THE OPINIONS OF HERMOGENES, BY THE PRESCRIPTIVE RULE OF ANTIQUITY 
SHOWN TO BE HERETICAL. NOT DERIVED FROM CHRISTIANITY, BUT FROM HEATHEN 
PHILOSOPHY. SOME OF THE TENETS MENTIONED.
WE are accustomed, for the purpose of shortening argument, to lay down the 
rule against heretics of the lateness of their date. For in as far as by our 
rule, priority is given to the truth, which also foretold that there would be 
heresies, in so far must all later opinions be prejudged as heresies, being such 
as were, by the more ancient rule of truth, predicted as (one day) to happen. 
Now, the doctrine of Hermogenes has this taint of novelty. He is, in short, a 
man living in the world at the present time; by his very nature a heretic, and 
turbulent withal, who mistakes loquacity for eloquence, and supposes impudence 
to be firmness, and judges it to be the duty of a good conscience to speak ill 
of individuals. Moreover, he despises God's law in his painting, maintaining 
repeated marriages, alleges the law of God in defence of lust, and yet despises 
it in respect of his art. He falsities by a twofold process--with his cautery 
and his pen. He is a thorough adulterer, both doctrinally and carnally, since he 
is rank indeed with the contagion of your marriage-hacks, and has also failed in 
cleaving to the rule of faith as much as the apostle's own Hermogenes. However, 
never mind the man, when it is his doctrine which I question. He does not appear 
to acknowledge any other Christ as Lord, though he holds Him in a different way; 
but by this difference in his faith he really makes Him another being,--nay, he 
takes from Him everything which is God, since he will not have it that He made 
all things of nothing. For, turning away from Christians to the philosophers, 
from the Church to the Academy and the Porch, he learned there from the Stoics 
how to place Matter (on the same level) with the Lord, just as if it too had 
existed ever both unborn and unmade, having no beginning at all nor end, out of 
which, according to him, the Lord afterwards created all things. 
CHAP. II.--HERMOGENES, AFTER A PERVERSE INDUCTION FROM MERE HERETICAL 
ASSUMPTIONS, CONCLUDES THAT GOD CREATED ALL THINGS OUT OF PRE-EXISTING 
MATTER.
Our very bad painter has coloured this his primary shade absolutely without 
any light, with such arguments as these: He begins with laying down the premiss, 
that the Lord made all things either out of Himself, or out of nothing, or out 
of something; in order that, after he has shown that it was impossible for Him 
to have made them either out of Himself or out of nothing, he might thence 
affirm the residuary proposition that He made them out of something, and 
therefore that that something was Matter. He could not have made all things, he 
says, of Himself; because whatever 478 
things the Lord made of Himself would have been parts of Himself; but He is 
not dissoluble into parts,, because, being the Lord, He is indivisible, and 
unchangeable, and always the same. Besides, if He had made anything out of 
Himself, it would have been something of Himself. Everything, however, both 
which was made and which He made must be accounted imperfect, because it was 
made of a part, and He made it of a part; or if, again, it was a whole which He 
made, who is a whole Himself, He must in that case have been at once both a 
whole, and yet not a whole; because it behaved Him to be a whole, that He might 
produce Himself, and yet not a whole, that He might be produced out of Himself. 
But this is a most difficult position. For if He were in existence, He could not 
be made, for He was in existence already; if, however, he were not in existence 
He could not make, because He was a nonentity. He maintains, moreover, that He 
who always exists, does not came into existence, but exists for ever and ever. 
He accordingly concludes that He made nothing out of Himself, since He never 
passed into such a condition as made it possible for Him to make anything out of 
Himself. In like manner, he contends that He could not have made all things out 
of nothing--thus: He defines the Lord as a being who is good, nay, very good, 
who must will to make things as good and excellent as He is Himself; indeed it 
were impossible for Him either to will or to make anything which was not good, 
nay, very good itself. Therefore all things ought to have been made good and 
excellent by Him, after His own condition. Experience shows, however, that 
things which are even evil were made by Him: not, of course, of His own will and 
pleasure; because, if it had been of His own will and pleasure, He would be sure 
to have made nothing unfitting or unworthy of Himself. That, therefore, which He 
made not of His own will must be understood to have been made from the fault of 
something, and that is from Matter, without a doubt. 
CHAP. III.--AN ARGUMENT OF HERMOGENES. THE ANSWER: WHILE GOD IS A TITLE 
ETERNALLY APPLICABLE TO THE DIVINE BEING, LORD AND FATHER ARE ONLY 
RELATIVE APPELLATIONS, NOT ETERNALLY APPLICABLE. AN INCONSISTENCY IN THE 
ARGUMENT OF HERMOGENES POINTED OUT
He adds also another point: that as God was always God, there was never a 
time when God was not also Lord. But it was in no way possible for Him to be 
regarded as always Lord, in the same manner as He had been always God, if there 
had not been always, in the previous eternity, a something of which He could be 
regarded as evermore the Lord. So he concludes that God always had Matter 
co-existent with Himself as the Lord thereof. Now, this tissue of his I shall at 
once hasten to pull abroad. I have been willing to set it out in form to this 
length, for the information of those who are unacquainted with the subject, that 
they may know that his other arguments likewise need only be understood to be 
refuted. We affirm, then, that the name of God always existed with Himself and 
in Himself--but not eternally so the Lord. Because the condition of the one is 
not the same as that of the other. God is the designation of the substance 
itself, that is, of the Divinity; but Lord is (the name) not of substance, but 
of power. I maintain that the substance existed always with its own name, which 
is God; the title Lord was afterwards added, as the indication indeed of 
something accruing. For from the moment when those things began to exist, over 
which the power of a Lord was to act, God, by the accession of that power, both 
became Lord and received the name thereof. Because God is in like manner a 
Father, and He is also a Judge; but He has not always been Father and Judge, 
merely on the ground of His having always been God. For He could not have been 
the Father previous to the Son, nor a Judge previous to sin. There was, however, 
a time when neither sin existed with Him, nor the Son; the former of which was 
to constitute the Lord a Judge, and the latter a Father. In this way He was not 
Lord previous to those things of which He was to be the Lord. But He was only to 
become Lord at some future time: just as He became the Father by the Son, and a 
Judge by sin, so also did He become Lord by means of those things which He had 
made, in order that they might serve Him. Do I seem to you to be weaving 
arguments, 
Hermogenes? how neatly does Scripture lend us its aid, when it applies the 
two titles to Him with a distinction, and reveals them each at its proper time! 
For (the title ) God, indeed, which 479 
always belonged to Him, it names at the very first: "In the beginning God 
created the heaven and the earth;" and as long as He continued making, one after 
the other, those things of which He was to be the Lord, it merely mentions God. 
"And God said," "and God made," "and Gad saw;" but nowhere do we yet find the 
Lord. But when He completed the whole creation, and especially man himself, who 
was destined to understand His sovereignty in a way of special propriety, He 
then is designated a Lord. Then also the Scripture added the name Lord: "And the 
Lord God, Deus Dominus. took the man, whom He had formed;" "And the Lord God 
commanded Adam." Thenceforth He, who was previously God only, is the Lord, from 
the time of His having something of which He might be the Lord. For to Himself 
He was always God, but to all things was He only then God, when He became also 
Lord. Therefore, in as far as (Hermogenes) shall suppose that Matter was 
eternal, on the ground that the Lord was eternal, in so far will it be evident 
that nothing existed, because it is plain that the Lord as such did not always 
exist. Now I mean also, on my own part, to add a remark for the sake of ignorant 
persons, of whom Hermogenes is an extreme instance, and actually to retort 
against him his own arguments. For when he denies that Matter was born or made, 
I find that, even on these terms, the title Lord is unsuitable to God in respect 
of Matter, because it must have been free, when by not having a beginning it had 
not an author. The fact of its past existence it owed to no one, so that it 
could be a subject to no one. Therefore ever since God exercised His power over 
it, by creating (all things) out of Matter, although it had all along 
experienced God as its Lord, yet Matter does, after all, demonstrate that God 
did not exist in the relation of Lord to it, although all the while He was 
really so. 
CHAP. IV.--HERMOGENES GIVES DIVINE ATTRIBUTES TO MATTER, AND SO MAKES TWO 
GODS.
At this point, then, I shall begin to treat of Matter, how that, (according 
to Hermogenes,) God compares it with Himself as equally unborn, equally unmade, 
equally eternal, set forth as being without a beginning, without an end. For 
what other estimate's of God is there than eternity? What other condition has 
eternity than to have ever existed, and to exist yet for evermore by virtue of 
its privilege of having neither beginning nor end? Now, since this is the 
property of God, it will belong to God alone, whose property it is--of course on 
this ground, that if it can be ascribed to any other being, it will no longer be 
the property of God, but will belong, along with Him, to that being also to 
which it is ascribed. For "although there be that are called gods" in name, 
"whether in heaven or in earth, yet to us there is but one God the Father, of 
whom are all things;" whence the greater reason why, in our view, that which is 
the property of God ought to be regarded as pertaining to God alone, and why (as 
I have already said) that should cease to be such a property, when it is shared 
by another being. Now, since He is God, it must necessarily be a unique mark of 
this quality, that it be confined to One. Else, what will be unique and 
singular, if that is not which has nothing equal to it? What will be principal, 
if that is not which is above all things, before all things, and from which all 
things proceed? By possessing these He is God alone, and by His sole possession 
of them He is One. If another also shared in the possession, there would then be 
as many gods as there were possessors of these attributes of God. Hermogenes, 
therefore, introduces two gods: he introduces Matter as God's equal. God, 
however, must be One, because that is God which is supreme; but nothing else can 
be supreme than that which is unique; and that cannot possibly be unique which 
has anything equal to it; and Matter will be equal with God when it is held to 
be eternal. 
CHAP. V.--HERMOGENES COQUETS WITH HIS OWN ARGUMENT, AS IF RATHER AFRAID 
OF IT. AFTER INVESTING MATTER WITH DIVINE QUALITIES, HE TRIES TO MAKE IT 
SOMEHOW
INFERIOR TO GOD.
But God is God, and Matter is Matter. As if a mere difference in their names 
prevented equality, when an identity of condition is claimed for them! Grant 
that their nature is 480 
different; assume, too, that their form is not identical,--what matters it so 
long as their absolute state have but one mode? God is unborn; is not Matter 
also unborn? God ever exists; is not Matter, too, ever existent? Both are 
without beginning; both are without end; both are the authors of the 
universe--both He who created it, and the Matter of which He made it. For it is 
impossible that Matter should not be regarded as the author of all things, when 
the universe is composed of it. What answer will he give? Will he say that 
Matter is not then comparable with God as soon as it has something belonging to 
God; since, by not having total (divinity), it cannot correspond to the whole 
extent of the comparison? But what more has he reserved for God, that he should 
not seem to have accorded to Matter the full amount of the Deity? He says in 
reply, that even though this is the prerogative of Matter, both the authority 
and the substance of God must remain intact, by virtue of which He is regarded 
as the sole and prime Author, as well as the Lord of all things. Truth, however, 
maintains the unity of God in such a way as to insist that whatever belongs to 
God Himself belongs to Him alone. For so will it belong to Himself if it belong 
to Him alone; and therefore it will be impossible that another god should be 
admitted, when it is permitted to no other being to possess anything of God. 
Well, then, you say, we ourselves at that rate possess nothing of God. But 
indeed we do, and shall continue to do--only it is from Him that we receive it, 
and not from ourselves. For we shall be even gods, if we, shall deserve to be 
among those of whom He declared, "I have said, Ye are gods," and, "God standeth 
in the congregation of the gods." But this comes of His own grace, not from any 
property in us, because it is He alone who can make gods. The property of 
Matter, however, he makes to be that which it has in common with God. 
Otherwise, if it received from God the property which belongs to God,--I mean 
its attribute of eternity -one might then even suppose that it both possesses an 
attribute in common with God, and yet at the same time is not God. But what 
inconsistency is it for him to allow that there is a conjoint possession of an 
attribute with God, and also to wish that what he does not refuse to Matter 
should be, after all, the exclusive privilege of God! 
CHAP. VI.--THE SHIFTS TO WHICH HERMOGENES IS REDUCED, WHO DEIFIES MATTER, 
AND YET IS UNWILLING TO HOLD HIM EQUAL WITH THE DIVINE CREATOR.
He declares that God's attribute is still safe to Him, of being the only God, 
and the First, and the Author of all things, and the Lord of all things, and 
being incomparable to any--qualities which he straightway ascribes to Matter 
also. He is God, to be sure. God shall also attest the same; but He has also 
sworn sometimes by Himself, that there is no other God like Him. 
Hermogenes, however, will make Him a liar. For Matter will be such a God as 
He--being unmade, unborn, without beginning, and without end. God will say, "I 
am the first!" Yet how is He the first, when Matter is co-eternal with Him? 
Between co-eternals and contemporaries there is no sequence of rank. Is then, 
Matter also the first? "I," says the Lord, "have stretched out the heavens 
alone." But indeed He was not alone, when that likewise stretched them out, of 
which He made the expanse. When he asserts the position that Matter was eternal, 
without any encroachment on the condition of God, let him see to it that we do 
not in ridicule turn the tables on him, that God similarly was eternal without 
any encroachment on the condition of Matter--the condition of Both being still 
common to Them. The position, therefore, remains unimpugned both in the case of 
Matter, that it did itself exist, only along with God; and that God existed 
alone, but with Matter. It also was first with God, as God, too, was first with 
it; it, however, is not comparable with God, as God, too, is not to be compared 
with it; with God also it was the Author (of all things), and with God their 
Sovereign. In this way he proposes that God has something, and yet not the 
whole, of Matter. For Him, accordingly, Hermogenes has reserved nothing which he 
had not equally conferred on Matter, so that it is not Matter which is compared 
with God, but rather God who is compared with Matter. Now, inasmuch as those 
qualities which we claim as peculiar to God--to have always existed, without a 
beginning, without an end, and to have been the First, and Alone, and the Author 
of all things--are also compatible to Matter, I want to know what property 
Matter possesses 481 
different and alien from God, and hereby special to itself, by reason of 
which it is incapable of being compared with God? That Being, in which occur all 
the properties of God, is sufficiently predetermined without any further 
comparison. 
CHAP. VII.--HERMOGENES HELD TO HIS THEORY IN ORDER THAT ITS ABSURDITY MAY 
BE EXPOSED ON HIS OWN PRINCIPLES.
When he contends that matter is less than God, and inferior to Him, and 
therefore diverse from Him, and for the same reason not a fit subject of 
comparison with Him, who is a greater and superior Being, I meet him with this 
prescription, that what is eternal and unborn is incapable of any diminution and 
inferiority, because it is simply this which makes even God to be as great as He 
is, inferior and subject to none--nay, greater and higher than all. For, just as 
all things which are born, or which come to an end, and are therefore not 
eternal, do, by reason of their exposure at once to an end and a beginning, 
admit of qualities which are repugnant to God--I mean diminution and 
inferiority, because they are born and made--so likewise God, for this very 
reason, is unsusceptible of these accidents, because He is absolutely unborn, 
and also unmade. And yet such also is the condition of Matter. Therefore, of the 
two Beings which are eternal, as being unborn and unmade--God and Matter--by 
reason of the identical mode of their common condition (both of them equally 
possessing that which admits neither of diminution nor subjection--that is, the 
attribute of eternity), we affirm that neither of them is less or greater than 
the other, neither of them is inferior or superior to the other; but that they 
both stand on a par in greatness, on a par in sublimity, and on the same level 
of that complete and perfect felicity of which eternity is reckoned to consist. 
Now we must not resemble the heathen in our opinions; for they, when constrained 
to acknowledge God, insist on having other deities below Him. The Divinity, 
however, has no degrees, because it is unique; and if it shall be found in 
Matter--as being equally unborn and unmade and eternal--it must be resident in 
both alike, because in no case can it be inferior to itself. In what way, then, 
will Hermogenes have the courage to draw distinctions; and thus to subject 
matter to God, an eternal to the Eternal, an unborn to the Unborn, an author to 
the Author? seeing that it dares to say, I also am the first; I too am before 
all things; and I am that from which all things proceed; equal we have been, 
together we have been--both alike without beginning, without end; both alike 
without an Author, without a God. What God, then, is He who subjects me to a 
contemporaneous, co-eternal power? If it be He who is called God, then I myself, 
too, have my own (divine) 
name. Either I am God, or He is Matter, because we both are that which 
neither of us is. Do you suppose, therefore, that he has not made Matter equal 
with God, although, for-sooth, he pretends it to be inferior to Him? 
CHAP. VIII.--ON HIS OWN PRINCIPLES, HERMOGENES MAKES MATTER, ON THE WHOLE, 
SUPERIOR TO GOD.
Nay more, he even prefers Matter to God, and rather subjects God to it, when 
he will have it that God made all things out of Matter. For if He drew His 
resources from it for the creation of the world, Matter is already found to be 
the superior, inasmuch as it furnished Him with the means of effecting His 
works; and God is thereby clearly subjected to Matter, of which the substance 
was indispensable to Him. For there is no one but requires that which he makes 
use of; no one but is subject to the thing which he requires, for the very 
purpose of being able to make use of it. So, again, there is no one who, from 
using what belongs to another, is not inferior to him of whose property he makes 
use; and there is no one who imparts of his own for another's use, who is not in 
this respect superior to him to whose use he lends his property. On this 
principle, Matter self, no doubt, was not in want of God, but rather lent itself 
to God, who was in want of it--rich and abundant and liberal as it was--to one 
who was, I suppose, too small, and too weak, and too unskilful, to form what He 
willed out of nothing. A grand service, verily, did it confer on God in giving 
Him means at the present time whereby He might be known to be God, and be called 
Almighty --only that He is no longer Almighty, since He is not powerful enough 
for this, to produce all things out of nothing. To be sure, Matter bestowed 
somewhat on itself also--even to get its own self acknowledged with God as God's 
co-equal, nay more, as His 482 
helper; only there is this drawback, that Hermogenes is the only man that has 
found out this fact, besides the philosophers--those patriarchs of all heresy. 
For the prophets knew nothing about it, nor the apostles thus far, nor, I 
suppose, even Christ. 
CHAP, IX.--SUNDRY INEVITABLE BUT INTOLERABLE CONCLUSIONS FROM THE 
PRINCIPLES OF HERMOGENES.
He cannot say that it was as its Lord that God employed Matter for His 
creative works, for He could not have been the Lord of a substance which was 
co-equal with Himself. Well, but perhaps it was a title derived from the will of 
another, which he enjoyed--a precarious holding, and not a lordship, and that to 
such a degree, that although Matter was evil, He yet endured to make use of an 
evil substance, owing, of course, to the restraint of His own limited power, 
which made Him impotent to create out of nothing, not in consequence of His 
power; for if, as God, He had at all possessed power over Matter which He knew 
to be evil, He would first have converted it into good--as its Lord and the good 
God-- that so He might have a good thing to make use of, instead of a bad one. 
But being undoubtedly good, only not the Lord withal, He, by using such power as 
He possessed, showed the necessity He was under of yielding to the condition of 
Matter, which He would have amended if He had been its Lord. Now this is the 
answer which must be given to Hermogenes when he maintains that it was by virtue 
of His Lordship that God used Matter--even of His non-possession of any right to 
it, on the ground, of course, of His not having Himself made it. Evil then, on 
your terms, must proceed from God Himself, since He is--I will not say the 
Author of evil, because He did not form it, but--the permitter thereof, as 
having dominion over it. If indeed Matter shall prove not even to belong to God 
at all, as being evil, it follows, that when He made use of what belonged to 
another, He used it either on a precarious title because He was in need of it, 
or else by violent possession because He was stronger than it. For by three 
methods is the property of others obtained,--by right, by permission, by 
violence; in other words, by lordship, by a title derived from the will of 
another, by force. Now, as lordship is out of the question, Hermogenes must 
choose which (of the other methods) is suitable to God. Did He, then, make all 
things out of Matter, by permission, or by force? But, in truth, would not God 
have more wisely determined that nothing at all should be created, than that it 
should be created by the mere sufferance of another, or by violence, and that, 
too, with a substance which was evil? 
CHAP. X.--TO WHAT STRAITS HERMOGENES ABSURDLY REDUCES THE DIVINE BEING. HE 
DOES NOTHING SHORT OF MAKING HIM THE AUTHOR OF EVIL.
Even if Matter had been the perfection of good, would it not have been 
equally indecorous in Him to have thought of the property of another, however 
good, (to effect His purpose by the help of it)? It was, therefore, absurd 
enough for Him, in the interest of His own glory, to have created the world in 
such a way as to betray His own obligation to a substance which belonged to 
another--and that even not good. Was He then, asks (Hermogenes), to make all 
things out of nothing,that so evil things themselves might be attributed to His 
will? Great, in all conscience, must be the blindness of our heretics which 
leaves them to argue in such a way that they either insist on the belief of 
another God supremely good, on the ground of their thinking the Creator to be 
the author of evil, or else they set up Matter with the Creator, in order that 
they may derive evil from Matter, not from the Creator. And yet there is 
absolutely no god at all that is free from such a doubtful plight, so as to be 
able to avoid the appearance even of being the author of evil, whosoever he is 
that--I will not say, indeed, has made, but still--has permitted evil to be made 
by some author or other, and from some source or other. Hermogenes, therefore, 
ought to be told at once, although we postpone to another place our distinction 
concerning the mode of evil, that even he has effected no result by this device 
of his. For observe how God is found to be, if not the Author of, yet at any 
rate the conniver at, evil, inasmuch as He, with all His extreme goodness, 
endured evil in Matter be 483 
fore He created the world, although, as being good, and the enemy of evil, He 
ought to have corrected it. For He either was able to correct it, but was 
unwilling; or else was willing, but being a weak God, was not able. If He was 
able and yet unwilling, He was Himself evil, as having favoured evil; and thus 
He now opens Himself to the charge of evil, because even if He did not create it 
yet still, since it would not be existing if He had been against its existence, 
He must Himself have then caused it to exist, when He refused to will its 
non-existence. And what is more shameful than this? When He willed that to be 
which He was Himself unwilling to create, He acted in fact against His very 
self, inasmuch as He was both willing that that should exist which He was 
unwilling to make, and unwilling to make that which He was willing should exist. 
As if what He willed was good, and at the same time what he refused to be the 
Maker of was evil. What He judged to be evil by not creating it, He also 
proclaimed to be good by permitting it to exist. By bearing with evil as a good 
instead of rather extirpating it, He proved Himself to be the promoter thereof; 
criminally, if through His own will--disgracefully, if through necessity. God 
must either be the servant of evil or the friend thereof, since He held converse 
with evil in Matter--nay, more, effected His works out of the evil thereof. 
CHAP. XI.--HERMOGENES MAKES GREAT EFFORTS TO REMOVE EVIL FROM GOD TO 
MATTER. HOW HE FAILS TO DO THIS CONSISTENTLY WITH HIS OWN ARGUMENT.
But, after all, by what proofs does Hermogenes persuade us that Matter is 
evil? For it will be impossible for him not to call that evil to which he 
imputes evil. Now we lay down this principle, that what is eternal cannot 
possibly admit of diminution and subjection, so as to be considered inferior to 
another co-eternal Being. So that we now affirm that evil is not even compatible 
with it, since it is incapable of subjection, from the fact that it cannot in 
any wise be subject to any, because it is eternal. But inasmuch as, on other 
grounds, it is evident what is eternal as God is the highest good, whereby also 
He alone is good--as being eternal, and therefore good--as being God, how can 
evil be inherent in Matter, which (since it is eternal) must needs be believed 
to be the highest good? Else if that which is eternal prove to be also capable 
of evil, this (evil) will be able to be also believed of God to His prejudice; 
so that it is without adequate reason that he has been so anxious to remove evil 
from God; since evil must be compatible with l an eternal Being, even by being 
made compatible with Matter, as Hermogenes makes it. But, as the argument now 
stands, since what is eternal can be deemed evil, the evil must prove to be 
invincible and insuperable, as being eternal; and in that case it will be in 
vain that we labour "to put away evil from the midst of us;" in that case, 
moreover, God vainly gives us such a command and precept; nay more, in vain has 
God appointed any judgment at all, when He means, indeed, to inflict punishment 
with injustice. But if, on the other hand, there is to be an end of evil, when 
the chief thereof, the devil, shall "go away into the fire which God hath 
prepared for him and his angels"--having been first "cast into the bottomless 
pit;" when likewise "the manifestation of the children of God" shall have 
"delivered the creature" from evil, which had been "made subject to vanity;" 
when the cattle restored in the innocence and integrity of their nature shall be 
at peace with the beasts of the field, when also little children shall play with 
serpents; when the Father shall have put beneath the feet of His Son His 
enemies, as being the workers of evil,--if in this way an end is compatible with 
evil, it must follow of necessary that a beginning is also compatible with it; 
and Matter will turn out to have a beginning, by virtue of its having also an 
end. For whatever things are set to the account of evil, have a compatibility 
with the condition of evil. 
CHAP. XII.--THE MODE OF CONTROVERSY CHANGED. THE PREMISSES OF HERMOGENES 
ACCEPTED, IN ORDER TO SHOW INTO WHAT CONFUSION THEY LEAD HIM.
Come now, let us suppose Matter to be evil, nay, very evil, by nature of 
course, just as 484 
we believe God to be good, even very good, in like manner by nature. Now 
nature must be regarded as sure and fixed, just as persistently fixed in evil in 
the case of Matter, as immoveable and unchangeable in good in the case of God. 
Because, as is evident, if nature admits of change from evil to good in Matter, 
it can be changed from good to evil in God. Here some man will say, Then will 
"children not be raised up to Abraham from the stones?" Will "generations of 
vipers not bring forth the fruit of repentance?" And "children of wrath" fail to 
become sons of peace, if nature be unchangeable? Your reference to such examples 
as these, my friend, is a thoughtless one. For things which owe their existence 
to birth such as stones and vipers and human beings--are not apposite to the 
case of Matter, which is unborn; since their nature, by possessing a beginning, 
may have also a termination. But bear in mind that Matter has once for all been 
determined to be eternal, as being unmade, unborn, and therefore supposably of 
an unchangeable and incorruptible nature; and this from the very opinion of 
Hermogenes himself, which he alleges against us when he denies that God was able 
to make (anything) of Himself, on the ground that what is eternal is incapable 
of change, because it would lose--so the opinion runs--what it once was, in 
becoming by the change that which it was not, if it were not eternal. But as for 
the Lord, who is also eternal, (he maintained) that He could not be anything 
else than what He always is. Well, then, I will adopt this definite opinion of 
his, and by means thereof refute him. I blame Matter with a like censure, 
because out of it, evil though it be--nay, very evil --good things have been 
created, nay, "very good" ones: "And God saw that they were good, and God 
blessed them"--because, of course, of their very great goodness; certainly not 
because they were evil, or very evil. Change is therefore admissible in Matter; 
and this being the case, it has lost its condition of eternity; in short, its 
beauty is decayed in death. Eternity, however, cannot be lost, because it cannot 
be eternity, except by reason of its immunity from loss. For the same reason 
also it is incapable of change, inasmuch as, since it is eternity, it can by no 
means be changed. 
CHAP. XIII.--ANOTHER GROUND OF HERMOGENES THAT MATTER HAS SOME GOOD IN IT. 
ITS ABSURDITY.
Here the question will arise How creatures were made good out of it," which 
were formed without any change at all? How occurs the seed of what is good, nay, 
very good, in that which is evil, nay, very evil? Surely a good tree does not 
produce evil fruit, since there is no God who is not good; nor does an evil tree 
yield good fruit, since there is not Matter except what is very evil. Or if we 
were to grant him that there is some germ of good in it, then there will be no 
longer a uniform nature (pervading it), that is to say, one which is evil 
throughout; but instead thereof (we now encounter) a double nature, partly good 
and partly evil; and again the question will arise, whether, in a subject which 
is good and evil, there could possibly have been found a harmony for light and 
darkness, for sweet and bitter? So again, if qualities so utterly diverse as 
good and evil have been able to unite together, and have imparted to Matter a 
double nature, productive of both kinds of fruit, then no longer will absolutely 
good things be imputable to God, just as evil things are not ascribed to Him, 
but both qualities will appertain to Matter, since they are derived from the 
property of Matter. At this rate, we shall owe to God neither gratitude for good 
things, nor grudge for evil ones, because He has produced no work of His own 
proper character. From which circumstance will arise the clear proof that He has 
been subservient to Matter. 
CHAP. XIV.--TERTULLIAN PUSHES HIS OPPONENT INTO A DILEMMA.
Now, if it be also argued, that although Matter may have afforded Him the 
opportunity, it was still His own will which led Him to the creation of good 
creatures, as having detected what was good in matter--although this, too, be a 
discreditable supposition--yet, at any rate, when He produces evil likewise out 
of the same (Matter), He is a servant to Matter, since, of course, it is not of 
His own accord that He produces this too, having nothing else that He can do 
than to effect creation out of an evil stock--unwillingly, no 485 
doubt, as being good; of necessity, too, as being unwilling; and as an act of 
servitude, because from necessity. Which, then, is the worthier thought, that He 
created evil things of necessity, or of His own accord? Because it was indeed of 
necessity that He created them, if out of Matter; of His own accord, if out of 
nothing. For you are now labouring in vain when you try to avoid making God the 
Author of evil things; because, since He made all things of Matter, they will 
have to be ascribed to Himself, who made them, just because He made them. 
Plainly the interest of the question, whence He made all things, identifies 
itself with (the question), whether He made all things out of nothing; and it 
matters not whence He made all things, so that He made all things thence, whence 
most glory accrued to Him. Now, more glory accrued to Him from a creation of His 
own will than from one of necessity; in other words, from a creation out of 
nothing, than from one out of Matter. It is more worthy to believe that God is 
free, even as the Author of evil, than that He is a slave. Power, whatever it 
be, is more suited to Him than infirmity. If we thus even admit that matter had 
nothing good in it, but that the Lord produced whatever good He did produce of 
His own power, then some other questions will with equal reason arise. First, 
since there was no good at all in Matter, it is clear that good was not made of 
Matter, on the express ground indeed that Matter did not possess it. Next, if 
good was not made of Matter, it must then have been made of God; if not of God, 
then it must have been made of nothing.--For this is the alternative, on 
Hermogenes' own showing. 
CHAP. XV.--THE TRUTH, THAT GOD MADE ALL THINGS FROM NOTHING, RESCUED FROM 
THE OPPONENT'S FLOUNDERINGS.
Now, if good was neither produced out of matter, since it was not in it, evil 
as it was, nor out of God, since, according to the position of Hermogenes, 
nothing could have been produced out of god, it will be found that good was 
created out of nothing, inasmuch as it was formed of none --neither of Matter 
nor of God. And if good was formed out of nothing, why not evil too? Nay, if 
anything was formed out of nothing, why not all things? Unless indeed it be that 
the divine might was insufficient for the production of all things, though it 
produced a something out of nothing. Or else if good proceeded from evil matter, 
since it issued neither from nothing nor from God, it will follow that it must 
have proceeded from the conversion of Matter contrary to that unchangeable 
attribute which has been claimed for it, as an eternal being. 
Thus, in regard to the source whence good derived its existence, Hermogenes 
will now have to deny the possibility of such. But still it is necessary that 
(good) should proceed from some one of those sources from which he has denied 
the very possibility of its having been derived. Now if evil be denied to be of 
nothing for the purpose of denying it to be the work of God, from whose will 
there would be too much appearance of its being derived, and be alleged to 
proceed from Matter, that it may be the property of that very thing of whose 
substance it is assumed to be made, even here also, as I have said, God will 
have to be regarded as the Author of evil; because, whereas it had been His duty 
to produce all good things out of Matter, or rather good things simply, by His 
identical attribute of power and will, He did yet not only not produce all good 
things, but even (some) evil things--of course, either willing that the evil 
should exist if He was able to cause their non-existence, or not being strong 
enough to effect that all things should be good, if being desirous of that 
result, He failed in the accomplishment thereof; since there can be no 
difference whether it were by weakness or by will, that the Lord proved to be 
the Author of evil. Else what was the reason that, after creating good things, 
as if Himself good, He should have also produced evil things, as if He failed in 
His goodness, since He did not confine Himself to the production of things which 
were simply consistent with Himself? What necessity was there, after the 
production of His proper work, for His troubling Himself about Matter also by 
producing evil likewise, in order to secure His being alone acknowledged as good 
from His good, and at the same time to prevent Matter being regarded as evil 
from (created) evil? 
Good would have flourished much better if evil had not blown upon it. For 
Hermogenes himself explodes the arguments of sundry persons who contend that 
evil things were necessary to impart lustre to the good, which must be 
understood from their contrasts. This, therefore, was not the ground for the 
production 486 
of evil; but if some other reason must be sought for the introduction 
thereof, why could it not have been introduced even from nothing, since the very 
same reason would exculpate the Lord from the reproach of being thought the 
author of evil, which now excuses the existence of evil things, when He produces 
them out of Matter? And if there is this excuse, then the question is completely 
shut up in a corner, where they are unwilling to find it, who, without examining 
into the reason itself of evil, or distinguishing how they should either 
attribute it to God or separate it from God, do in fact expose God to many most 
unworthy calumnies. 
CHAP. XVI.--A SERIES OF DILEMMAS. THEY SHOW THAT HERMOGENES CANNOT ESCAPE 
FROM THE ORTHODOX CONCLUSION.
On the very threshoId, then, of this doctrine, which I shall probably have to 
treat of elsewhere, I distinctly lay it down as my position, that both good and 
evil must be ascribed either to God, who made them out of Matter; or to Matter 
itself, out of which He made them; or both one and the other to both of them 
together, because they are bound together--both He who created, and that out of 
which He created; or (lastly) one to One and the other to the Other, because 
after Matter and God there is not a third. Now if both should prove to belong to 
God, God evidently will be the author of evil; but God, as being good, cannot be 
the author of evil. Again, if both are ascribed to Matter, Matter will evidently 
be the very mother of good, but inasmuch as Matter is wholly evil, it cannot be 
the mother of good. But if both one and the other should be thought to belong to 
Both together, then in this case also Matter will be comparable with God; and 
both will be equal, being on equal terms allied to evil as well as to good. 
Matter, however, ought not to be compared with God, in order that it may not 
make two gods. If, (lastly,) one be ascribed to One, and the other to the 
Other--that is to say, let the good be God's, and the evil belong to 
Matter--then, on the one hand, evil must not be ascribed to God, nor, on the 
other hand, good to Matter. And God, moreover, by making both good things and 
evil things out of Matter, creates them along with it. This being the case, I 
cannot tell how Hermogenes is to escape from my conclusion; for he supposes that 
God cannot be the author of evil, in what way soever He created evil out of 
Matter, whether it was of His own will, or of necessity, or from the reason (of 
the case). If, however, He is the author of evil, who was the actual Creator, 
Matter being simply associated with Him by reason of its furnishing Him with 
substance, you now do away with the cause of your introducing Matter. For it is 
not the less true, that it is by means of Matter that God shows Himself the 
author of evil, although Matter has been assumed by you expressly to prevent 
God's seeming to be the author of evil. Matter being therefore excluded, since 
the cause of it is excluded, it remains that God without doubt, must have made 
all things out of nothing. Whether evil things were amongst them we shall see, 
when it shall be made clear what are evil things, and whether those things are 
evil which you at present deem to be so. For it is more worthy of God that He 
produced even these of His own will, by producing them out of nothing, than from 
the predetermination of another, (which must have been the case) if He had 
produced them out of Matter. It is liberty, not necessity, which suits the 
character of God. I would much rather that He should have even willed to create 
evil of Himself, than that He should have lacked ability to hinder its creation. 

CHAP. XVII.--THE TRUTH OF GOD'S WORK IN CREATION. YOU CANNOT DEPART IN THE 
LEAST FROM IT, WITHOUT LANDING YOURSELF IN AN ABSURDITY.
This rule is required by the nature of the One-only God, who is One-only in 
no other way than as the sole God; and in no other way sole, than as having 
nothing else (co-existent) with Him. So also He will be first, because all 
things are after Him; and all things are after Him, because all things are by 
Him; and all things are by Him, because they are of nothing: so that reason 
coincides with the Scripture, which says: "Who hath known the mind of the Lord? 
or who hath been His counsellor? or with whom took He counsel? or who hath shown 
to Him the way of wisdom and knowledge? Who hath first given to 487 
Him, and it shall be recompensed to him again?" Surely none! Because there 
was present with Him no power, no material, no nature which belonged to any 
other than Himself. But if it was with some (portion of Matter) that He effected 
His creation, He must have received from that (Matter) itself both the design 
and the treatment of its order as being "the way of wisdom and knowledge." For 
He had to operate conformably with the quality of the thing, and according to 
the nature of Matter, not according to His own will in consequence of which He 
must have made even evil things suitably to the nature not of Himself, but of 
Matter. 
CHAP. XVIII.--AN EULOGY ON THE WISDOM AND WORD OF GOD, BY WHICH GOD MADE 
ALL THINGS OF NOTHING.
If any material was necessary to God in the creation of the world, as 
Hermogenes supposed, God had a far nobler and more suitable one in His own 
wisdom--one which was not to be gauged by the writings of philosophers, but to 
be learnt from the words or prophets. This alone, indeed, knew the mind of the 
Lord. For "who knoweth the things of God, and the things in God, but the Spirit, 
which is in Him?" Now His wisdom is that Spirit. This was His counsellor, the 
very way of His wisdom and knowledge. Of this He made all things, making them 
through It, and making them with It. "When He prepared the heavens," so says 
(the Scripture), "I was present with Him; and when He strengthened above the 
winds the lofty clouds, and when He secured the fountains which are under the 
heaven, I was present, compacting these things along with Him. I was He in whom 
He took delight; moreover, I 
daily rejoiced in His presence: for He rejoiced when He had finished the 
world, and amongst the sons of men did He show forth His pleasure." Now, who 
would not rather approve of this as the fountain and origin of all things--of 
this as, in very deed, the Matter of all Matter, not liable to any end, not 
diverse in condition, not restless in motion, not ungraceful in form, but 
natural, and proper, and duly proportioned, and beautiful, such truly as even 
God might well have required, who requires His own and not another's? Indeed, as 
soon as He perceived It to be necessary for His creation of the world, He 
immediately creates It, and generates It in Himself. "The Lord," says the 
Scripture, "possessed me, the beginning of His ways for the creation of His 
works. Before the worlds He rounded me; before He made the earth, before the 
mountains were settled in their places; moreover, before the hills He generated 
me, and prior to the depths was I begotten." Let Hermogenes then confess that 
the very Wisdom of God is declared to be born and created, for the especial 
reason that we should not suppose that there is any other being than God alone 
who is unbegotten and uncreated. For if that, which from its being inherent in 
the Lord was of Him and in Him, was yet not without a beginning,--I mean His 
wisdom, which was then born and created, when in the thought of God It began to 
assume motion for the arrangement of His creative works,--how much more 
impossible is it that anything should have been without a beginning which was 
extrinsic to the Lord! But if this same Wisdom is the Word of God, in the 
capacity of Wisdom, and (as being He) without whom nothing was made, just as 
also (nothing) was set in order without Wisdom, how can it be that anything, 
except the Father, should be older, and on this account indeed nobler, than the 
Son of God, the only-begotten and first-begotten Word? Not to say that what is 
unbegotten is stronger than that which is born, and what is not made more 
powerful than that which is made. Because that which did not require a Maker to 
give it existence, will be much more elevated in rank than that which had an 
author to bring it into being. On this principle, then, if evil is indeed 
unbegotten, whilst the Son of God is begotten ("for," says God, "my heart hath 
emitted my most excellent Word"), I am not quite sure that evil may not be 
introduced by good, the stronger by the weak, in the same way as the unbegotten 
is by the begotten. Therefore on this ground Hermogenes puts Matter even before 
God, by putting it before the Son. Because the 488 
Son is the Word, and "the Word is God," and "I and my Father are one." But 
after all, perhaps, the Son will patiently enough submit to having that 
preferred before Him which (by Hermogenes), is made equal to the Father! 
CHAP. XIX.--AN APPEAL TO THE HISTORY OF CREATION. TRUE MEANING OF THE 
TERM
BEGINNING, WHICH THE HERETIC CURIOUSLY WRESTS TO AN ABSURD SENSE.
But I shall appeal to the original document of Moses, by help of which they 
on the other side vainly endeavour to prop up their conjectures, with the view, 
of course, of appearing to have the support of that authority which is 
indispensable in such an inquiry. They have found their opportunity, as is usual 
with heretics, in wresting the plain meaning of certain words. For instance the 
very beginning, when God made the heaven and the earth, they will construe as if 
it meant something substantial and embodied, to be regarded as Matter. We, 
however, insist on the proper signification of every word, and say that 
principium means beginning,--being a term which is suitable to represent things 
which begin to exist. For nothing which has come into being is without a 
beginning, nor can this its commencement be at any other moment than when it 
begins to have existence. Thus principium or beginning, is simply a term of 
inception, not the name of a substance. Now, inasmuch as the heaven and the 
earth are the principal works of God, and since, by His making them first, He 
constituted them in an especial manner the beginning of His creation, before all 
things else, with good reason does the Scripture preface (its record of 
creation) with the words," In the beginning God made the heaven and the earth;" 
just as it would have said, "At last God made the heaven and the earth," if God 
had created these after all the rest. Now, if the beginning is a substance, the 
end must also be material. No doubt, a substantial thing may be the beginning of 
some other thing which may be formed out of it thus the clay is the beginning of 
the vessel. and the seed is the beginning of the plant. But when we employ the 
word beginning in this sense of origin, and not in that of order, we do not omit 
to mention also the name of that particular thing which we regard as the origin 
of the other. On the other hand, if we were to make such a statement as this, 
for example, "In the beginning the potter made a basin or a water-jug," the word 
beginning will not here indicate a material substance (for I have not mentioned 
the clay, which is the beginning in this sense, but only the order of the work, 
meaning that the potter made the basin and the jug first, before anything 
else--intending afterwards to make the rest. It is, then, to the order of the 
works that the word beginning has reference, not to the origin of their 
substances. I might also explain this word beginning in another way, which would 
not, however, be inapposite. The Greek term for beginning, which is arkh, 
admits the sense not only of priority of order, but of power as well; whence 
princes and magistrates are called arkontes.Therefore in this sense too, 
beginning may be taken for princely authority and power. It was, indeed, in His 
transcendent authority and power, that God made the heaven and the earth. 
CHAP. XX.--MEANING OF THE PHRASE--IN THE BEGINNING. TERTULLIAN CONNECTS IT 
WITH THE WISDOM OF GOD, AND ELICITS FROM IT THE TRUTH THAT THE CREATION WAS NOT 
OUT OF PRE-EXISTENT MATTER.
But in proof that the Greek word means nothing else than beginning, and that 
beginning admits of no other sense than the initial one, we have that (Being) 
even acknowledging such a beginning, who says: "The Lord possessed me, the 
beginning of His ways for the creation of His works." For since all things were 
made by the Wisdom of God, it follows that, when God made both the heaven and 
the earth in principio--that is to say, in the beginning--He made them in His 
Wisdom. If, indeed, beginning had a material signification, the Scripture would 
not have informed us that God made so and so in principio, at the beginning, but 
rather ex principio, of the beginning; for He would not have created in, but of, 
matter. When Wisdom, however, was referred to, it was quite right to say, in the 
beginning. For it was in Wisdom that He made all things at first, because by 
meditating and arranging His plans therein, He had in fact already done (the 
work of creation); and if He had even intended to create out of matter, He would 
yet have effected His creation when He previously medi 489 
tated on it and arranged it in His Wisdom, since It was in fact the beginning 
of His ways: this meditation and arrangement being the primal operation of 
Wisdom, opening as it does the way to the works by the act of meditation and 
thought. This authority of Scripture I claim for myself even from this 
circumstance, that whilst it shows me the God who created, and the works He 
created, it does not in like manner reveal to me the source from which He 
created. For since in every operation there are three principal things, He who 
makes, and that which is made, and that of which it is made, there must be three 
names mentioned in a correct narrative of the operation -- the person of the 
maker the sort of thing which is made, and the material of which it is formed. 
If the material is not mentioned, while the work and the maker of the work are 
both mentioned, it is manifest that He made the work out of nothing. For if He 
had had anything to operate upon, it would have been mentioned as well as (the 
other two particulars). In conclusion, I will apply the Gospel as a 
supplementary testimony to the Old Testament. Now in this there is all the 
greater reason why there should be shown the material (if there were any) out of 
which God made all things, inasmuch as it is therein plainly revealed by whom He 
made all things. "In the beginning was the Word" -- that is, the same beginning, 
of course, in which God made the heaven and the earth -- "and the Word was with 
God, and the Word was God. All things were made by Him, and without Him nothing 
was made." Now, since we have here clearly told us who the Maker was, that is, 
God, and what He made, even all things, and through whom He made them, even His 
Word, would not the order of the narrative have required that the source out of 
which all things were made by God through the Word should likewise be declared, 
if they had been in fact made out of anything? What, therefore, did not exist, 
the Scripture was unable to mention; and by not mentioning it, it has given us a 
clear proof that there was no such thing: for if there had been, the Scripture 
would have mentioned it. 
CHAP. XXI. -- A RETORT OF HERESY ANSWERED. THAT SCRIPTURE SHOULD IN SO 
MANY WORDS TELL US THAT THE WORLD WAS MADE OF NOTHING IS SUPERFLUOUS.
But, you will say to me, if you determine that all things were made of 
nothing, on the ground that it is not told us that anything was made out of 
pre-existent Matter, take care that it be not contended on the opposite side, 
that on the same ground all things were made out of Matter, because it is not 
likewise expressly said that anything was made out of nothing. Some arguments 
may, of coursed be thus retorted easily enough; but it does not follow that they 
are on that account fairly admissible, where there is a diversity in the cause. 
For I maintain that, even if the Scripture has not expressly declared that all 
things were made out of nothing -- just as it abstains (from saying that they 
were formed)out of Matter -- there was no such pressing need for expressly 
indicating the creation of all things out of nothing, as there was of their 
creation out of Matter, if that had been their origin. Because, in the case of 
what is made out of nothing, the very fact of its not being indicated that it 
was made of any particular thing shows that it was made of nothing; and there is 
no danger of its being supposed that it was made of anything, when there is no 
indication at all of what it was made of. In the case, however, of that which is 
made out of something, unless the very fact be plainly declared, that it was 
made out of something, there will be danger, until it is shown of what it was 
made, first of its appearing to be made of nothing, because it is not said of 
what it was made; and then, should it be of such a nature as to have the 
appearance of having certainly been made of something, there will be a similar 
risk of its seeming to have been made of afar different material from the proper 
one, so long as there is an absence of statement of what it was made of. Then, 
if God had been unable to make all things of nothing, the Scripture could not 
possibly have added that He had made all things of nothing: (there could have 
been no room for such a statement,) but it must by all means have informed us 
that He had made all things out of Matter, since Matter must have been the 
source; because the one case was quite to be understood, if it were not actually 
stated, whereas the other case would be left in doubt unless it were stated. 
CHAP. XXII. -- THIS CONCLUSION CONFIRMED BY THE USAGE OF HOLY SCRIPTURE IN 
ITS
HISTORY OF THE CREATION. HERMOGENES IN DANGER OF THE WOE PRONOUNCED 
AGAINST
ADDING TO SCRIPTURE.
And to such a degree has the Holy Ghost 490 
made this the rule of His Scripture, that whenever anything is made out of 
anything, He mentions both the thing that is made and the thing of which it is 
made. "Let the earth," says He, "bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and 
the fruit-tree yielding fruit after its kind, whose seed is in itself, after its 
kind. And it was so. And the earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed 
after its kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, after its 
kind." And again: "And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the 
moving creatures that have life, and fowl that may fly above the earth through 
the firmament of heaven. And it was so. And God created great whales, and every 
living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after 
their kind." Again afterwards: "And God said, Let the earth bring forth the 
living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beasts of the 
earth after their kind." If therefore God, when producing other things out of 
things which had been already made, indicates them by the prophet, and tells us 
what He has produced from such and such a source (although we might ourselves 
suppose them to be derived from some source or other, short of nothing; since 
there had already been created certain things, from which they might easily seem 
to have been made); if the Holy Ghost took upon Himself so great a concern for 
our instruction, that we might know from what everything was produced, would He 
not in like manner have kept us well informed about both the heaven and the 
earth, by indicating to us what it was that He made them of, if their original 
consisted of any material substance, so that the more He seemed to have made 
them of nothing, the less in fact was there as yet made, from which He could 
appear to have made them? Therefore, just as He shows us the original out of 
which He drew such things as were derived from a given source, so also with 
regard to those things of which He does not point out whence He produced them, 
He confirms (by that silence our assertion) that they were produced out of 
nothing. "In the beginning," then, "God made the heaven and the earth." I revere 
the fulness of His Scripture, in which He manifests to me both the Creator and 
the creation. In the gospel, moreover, I discover a Minister and Witness of the 
Creator, even His Word. But whether all things were made out of any underlying 
Matter, I have as yet failed anywhere to find. Where such a statement is 
written, Hermogenes' shop must tell us. If it is nowhere written, then let it 
fear the woe which impends on all who add to or take away from the written word. 

CHAP. XXIII. -- HERMOGENES PURSUED TO ANOTHER PASSAGE OF SCRIPTURE. THE 
ABSURDITY OF HIS INTERPRETATION EXPOSED.
But he draws an argument from the following words, where it is written: "And 
the earth was without form, and void." For he resolves the word earth into 
Matter, because that which is made out of it is the earth. And to the word was 
he gives the same direction, as if it pointed to what had always existed 
unbegotten and unmade. It was without form, moreover, and void, because he will 
have Matter to have existed shapeless and confused, and without the finish of a 
maker's hand. Now these opinions of his I will refute singly; but first I wish 
to say to him, by way of general answer: We are of opinion that Matter is 
pointed at in these terms. But yet does the Scripture intimate that, because 
Matter was in existence before all, anything of like condition was even formed 
out of it? Nothing of the kind. Matter might have had existence, if it so 
pleased -- or rather if Hermogenes so pleased. It might, I say, have existed, 
and yet God might not have made anything out of it, either as it was unsuitable 
to Him to have required the aid of anything, or at least because He is not shown 
to have made anything out of Matter. Its existence must therefore be without a 
cause, you will say. Oh, no! certainly not without cause. For even if the world 
were not made out of it, yet a heresy has been hatched therefrom; and a 
specially impudent one too, because it is not Matter which has produced the 
heresy, but the heresy has rather made Matter itself. 
CHAP. XXIV. -- EARTH DOES NOT MEAN MATTER AS HERMOGENES WOULD HAVE IT.
I now return to the several points by means of which he thought that Matter 
was signified. And first I will inquire about the 491 
terms. For we read only of one of them Earth; the other, namely Matter, we do 
not meet with. I ask, then, since Matter is not mentioned in Scripture, how the 
term earth can be applied to it, which marks a substance of another kind? There 
is all the greater need why mention should also have been made of Matter, if 
this has acquired the further sense of Earth, in order that I may be sure that 
Earth is one and the same name as Matter, and so not claim the designation for 
merely one substance, as the proper name thereof, and by which it is better 
known; or else be unable (if I should feel the inclination), to apply it to some 
particular species of Mater, instead, indeed, of making it the common term of 
all Matter. For when a proper name does not exist for that thing to which a 
common term is ascribed, the less apparent is the object to which it may be 
ascribed, the more capable will it be of being applied to any other object 
whatever. Therefore, even supposing that Hermogenes could show us the name 
Matter, he is bound to prove to us further, that the same object has the surname 
Earth, in order that he may claim for it both designations alike. 
CHAP. XXV.--THE ASSUMPTION THAT THERE ARE TWO EARTHS MENTIONED IN 
THE HISTORY OF THE CREATION, REFUTED.
He accordingly maintains that there are two earths set before us in the 
passage in question: one, which God made in the beginning; the other being the 
Matter of which God made the world, and concerning which it is said, "And the 
earth was without form, and void." Of course, if I were to ask, to which of the 
two earths the name earth is best suited, I shall be told that the earth which 
was made derived the appellation from that of which it was made, on the ground 
that it is more likely that the offspring should get its name from the original, 
than the original from the offspring. This being the case, another question 
presents itself to us, whether it is right and proper that this earth which God 
made should have derived its name from that out of which He made it? For I find 
from Hermogenes and the rest of the Materialist heretics, that while the one 
earth was indeed "without form, and void," this one of ours obtained from God in 
an equal degree both form, and beauty, and symmetry; and therefore that the 
earth which was created was a different thing from that out of which it was 
created. Now, having become a different thing, it could not possibly have shared 
with the other in its name, after it had declined from its condition. If earth 
was the proper name of the (original) Matter, this world of ours, which is not 
Matter, because it has become another thing, is unfit to bear the name of earth, 
seeing that that name belongs to something else, and is a stranger to its 
nature. But (you will tell me) Matter which has undergone creation, that is, our 
earth, had with its original a community of name no less than of kind. By no 
means. For although the pitcher is formed out of the clay, I shall no longer 
call it clay, but a pitcher; so likewise, although electrum is compounded of 
gold and silver, I shall yet not call it either gold or silver, but electrum. 
When there is a departure from the nature of any thing, there is likewise a 
relinquishment of its name--with a propriety which is alike demanded by the 
designation and the condition. How great a change indeed from the condition of 
that earth, which is Matter, has come over this earth of ours, is plain even 
from the fact that the latter has received this testimony to its goodness in 
Genesis, "And God saw that it was good;" while the former, according to 
Hermogenes, is regarded as the origin and cause of all evils. Lastly, if the one 
is Earth because the other is, why also is the one not Matter as the other is? 
Indeed, by this rule both the heaven and all creatures ought to have had the 
names of Earth and Matter, since they all consist of Matter. I have said enough 
touching the designation Earth, by which he will have it that Matter is 
understood. This, as everybody knows, is the name of one of the elements; for so 
we are taught by nature first, and afterwards by Scripture, except it be that 
credence must be given to that Silenus who talked so confidently in the presence 
of king Midas of another world, according to the account of Theopompus. But the 
same author informs us that there are also several gods. 
CHAP. XXVI.--THE METHOD OBSERVED IN THE HISTORY OF THE CREATION, IN REPLY 
TO
THE PERVERSE INTERPRETATION OF HERMOGENES.
We, however, have but one God, and but 492 
one earth too, which in the beginning God made. The Scripture, which at its 
very outset proposes to run through the order thereof tells us as its first 
information that it was created; it next proceeds to set forth what sort of 
earth it was. In like manner with respect to the heaven, it informs us first of 
its creation--"In the beginning God made the heaven:" it then goes on to 
introduce its arrangement; how that God both separated "the water which was 
below the firmament from that which was above the firmament," and called the 
firmament heaven,--the very thing He had created in the beginning. Similarly it 
(afterwards) treats of man: "And God created man, in the image of God made He 
him." It next reveals how He made him: "And (the Lord) God formed man of the 
dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man 
became a living soul." Now this is undoubtedly the correct and fitting mode for 
the narrative. First comes a prefatory statement, then follow the details in 
full; first the subject is named, then it is described. How absurd is the other 
view of the account, when even before he had premised any mention of his 
subject, i.e. Matter, without even giving us its name, he all on a sudden 
promulged its form and condition, describing to us its quality before mentioning 
its existence,--pointing out the figure of the thing formed, but concealing its 
name! But how much more credible is our opinion, which holds that Scripture has 
only subjoined the arrangement of the subject after it has first duly described 
its formation and mentioned its name! Indeed, how full and complete is the 
meaning of these words: "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth; 
but the earth was without form, and void,"--the very same earth, no doubt, which 
God made, and of which the Scripture had been speaking at that very moment. For 
that very "but" is inserted into the narrative like a clasp, (in its function) 
of a conjunctive particle, to connect the two sentences indissolubly together: 
"But the earth." This word carries back the mind to that earth of which mention 
had just been made, and binds the sense thereunto. Take away this "but," and the 
tie is loosened; so much so that the passage, "But the earth was without form, 
and void," may then seem to have been meant for any other earth. 
CHAP. XXVII.--SOME HAIR-SPLITTING USE OF WORDS IN WHICH HIS OPPONENT HAD 
INDULGED.
But you next praise your eyebrows, and toss back your head, and beckon with 
your finger, in characteristic disdain, and say: There is the was, looking as if 
it pointed to an eternal existence,--making its subject, of course, unbegotten 
and unmade, and on that account worthy of being supposed to be Matter. Well now, 
for my own part, I shall resort to no affected protestation, but simply reply 
that "was" may be predicated of everything--even of a thing which has been 
created, which was born, which once was not, and which is not your Matter. For 
of everything which has being, from whatever source it has it, whether it has it 
by a beginning or without a beginning, the word "was" will be predicated from 
the very fact that it exists. To whatever thing the first tense of the verb is 
applicable for definition, to the same will be suitable the later form of the 
verb, when it has to descend to relation. "Est" (it is) forms the essential part 
of a definition, "erat" (it was) of a relation. Such are the trifles and 
subtleties of heretics, who wrest and bring into question the simple meaning of 
the commonest words. A grand question it is, to be sure, whether "the earth 
was," which was made! The real point of discussion is, whether "being without 
form, and void," is a state which is more suitable to that which was created, or 
to that of which it was created, so that the predicate (was) may appertain to 
the same thing to which the subject (that which was) also belongs. 
CHAP, XXVIII.--A CURIOUS INCONSISTENCY IN HERMOGENES EXPOSED. CERTAIN
EXPRESSIONS IN THE HISTORY OF CREATION VINDICATED IN THE TRUE SENSE.
But we shall show not only that this condition agreed with this earth of 
ours, but that 493 
it did not agree with that other (insisted on by Hermogenes). For, inasmuch 
as pure Matter was thus subsistent with God, without the interposition indeed of 
any element at all (because as yet there existed nothing but itself and God), it 
could not of course have been invisible. Because, although Hermogenes contends 
that darkness was inherent in the substance of Matter, a position which we shall 
have to meet in its proper place, yet darkness is visible even to a human being 
(for the very fact that there is the darkness is an evident one), much more is 
it so to God. If indeed it had been invisible, its quality would not have been 
by any means discoverable. How, then, did Hermogenes find out that that 
substance was "without form," and confused and disordered, which, as being 
invisible, was not palpable to his senses? If this mystery was revealed to him 
by God, he ought to give us his proof. I want to know also, whether (the 
substance in question) could have been described as "void." That certainly is 
"void" which is imperfect. Equally certain is it, that nothing can be imperfect 
but that which is made; it is imperfect when it is not fully made. Certainly, 
you admit. Matter, therefore, which was not made at all, could not have been 
imperfect; and what was not imperfect was not "void." Having no beginning, 
because it was not made, it was also unsusceptible of any void-condition. For 
this void-condition is an accident of beginning. The earth, on the contrary, 
which was made, was deservedly called "void." For as soon as it was made, it had 
the condition of being imperfect, previous to its completion. 
CHAP. XXIX.--THE GRADUAL DEVELOPMENT OF COSMICAL ORDER OUT OF CHAOS IN 
THE
CREATION, BEAUTIFULLY STATED.
God, indeed, consummated all His works in a due order; at first He paled them 
out, as it were, in their unformed elements, and then He arranged them in their 
finished beauty. For He did not all at once inundate light with the splendour of 
the sun, nor all at once temper darkness with the moon's assuaging ray. The 
heaven He did not all at once bedeck with constellations and stars, nor did He 
at once fill the seas with their teeming monsters. The earth itself He did not 
endow with its varied fruitfulness all at once; but at first He bestowed upon it 
being, and then He filled it, that it might not be made in vain. For thus says 
Isaiah: "He created it not in vain; He formed it to be inhabited." Therefore 
after it was made, and while awaiting its perfect state, it was "without form, 
and void:" "void" indeed, from the very fact that it was without form (as being 
not yet perfect to the sight, and at the same time unfurnished as yet with its 
other qualities); and "without form," because it was still covered with waters, 
as if with the rampart of its fecundating moisture, by which is produced our 
flesh, in a form allied with its own. For to this purport does David say: "The 
earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof; the world, and all that dwell 
therein: He hath rounded it upon the seas, and on the streams hath He 
established it." It was when the waters were withdrawn into their hollow abysses 
that the dry land became conspicuous, which was hitherto covered with its watery 
envelope. Then it forthwith becomes "visible," God saying, "Let the water be 
gathered together into one mass, and let the dry land appear." "Appear," says 
He, not "be made." It had been already made, only in its invisible condition it 
was then waiting to appear. "Dry," because it was about to become such by its 
severance from the moisture, but yet "land." "And God called the dry land 
Earth," not Matter. And so, when it afterwards attains its perfection, it ceases 
to be accounted void, when God declares, "Let the earth bring forth grass, the 
herb yielding seed after its kind, and cording to its likeness, and the 
fruit-tree yielding fruit, whose seed is in itself, after its kind." Again: "Let 
the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping 
things, and beasts of the earth, after their kind." Thus the divine Scripture 
accomplished its full order. For to that, which it had at first described as 
"without form (invisible) and void," it gave both visibility and completion. Now 
no other Matter was "without form (invisible) and void." 
494 
Henceforth, then, Matter will have to be visible and complete. So that I must 
see Matter, since it has become visible. I must likewise recognize it as a 
completed thing, so as to be able to gather from it the herb bearing seed, and 
the tree yielding fruit, and that living creatures, made out of it, may minister 
to my need. Matter, however, is nowhere, but the Earth is here, confessed to my 
view. I see it, I enjoy it, ever since it ceased to be "without form 
(invisible), and void." Concerning it most certainly did Isaiah speak when he 
said, "Thus saith the Lord that created the heavens, He was the God that formed 
the earth, and made it." The same earth for certain did He form, which He also 
made. Now how did He form it? Of course by saying, "Let the dry land appear." 
Why does He command it to appear, if it were not previously invisible? firs 
purpose was also, that He might thus prevent His having made it in vain, by 
rendering it visible, and so fit for use. And thus, throughout, proofs arise to 
us that this earth which we inhabit is the very same which was both created and 
formed by God, and that none other was "Without form, and void," than that which 
had been created and formed. It therefore follows that the sentence, "Now the 
earth was without form, and void," applies to that same earth which God 
mentioned separately along with the heaven. 
CHAP. XXX.--ANOTHER PASSAGE IN THE SACRED HISTORY OF THE CREATION, 
RELEASED FROM THE MISHANDLING OF HERMOGENES.
The following words will in like manner apparently corroborate the conjecture 
of Hermogenes, "And darkness was upon the face of the deep, and the Spirit of 
God moved upon the face of the water; as if these blended 
substances, presented us with arguments for his massive pile of Matter. Now, 
so discriminating an enumeration of certain and distinct elements (as we have in 
this passage), which severally designates" darkness," "the deep" "the Spirit of 
God," "the waters," forbids the inference that anything confused or (from such 
confusion) uncertain is meant. Still more, when He ascribed to them their own 
places, "darkness on the face of the deep," "the Spirit upon the face of the 
waters," He repudiated all confusion in the substances; and by demonstrating 
their separate position, He demonstrated also their distinction. Most absurd, 
indeed, would it be that Matter, which is introduced to our view as "without 
form," should have its "formless" condition maintained by so many words 
indicative of form, without any intimation of what that confused body is, which 
must of course be supposed to be unique, since it is without form. For that 
which is without form is uniform; but even that which is without form, when it 
is blended together from various component parts, must necessarily have one 
outward appearance; and it has not any appearance, until it has the one 
appearance (which comes) from many parts combined. Now Matter either had those 
specific parts within itself, from the words indicative of which it had to be 
understood--I mean "darkness," and "the deep," and "the Spirit," and "the 
waters"--or it had them not. If it had them, how is it introduced as being 
"without form?" If it had them not, how does it become known? 
CHAP. XXXI.--A FURTHER VINDICATION OF THE SCRIPTURE NARRATIVE OF THE 
CREATION, AGAINST A FUTILE VIEW OF HERMOGENES.
But this circumstance, too, will be caught at, that Scripture meant to 
indicate of the heaven only, and this earth of yours, that God made it in the 
beginning, while nothing of the kind is said of the above-mentioned specific 
parts; and therefore that these, which are not described as having been made, 
appertain to unformed Matter. To this point also we must give an answer. Holy I 
Scripture would be sufficiently explicit, if it had declared that the heaven and 
the earth, as the very highest works of creation, were made by God, possessing 
of course their own special appurtenances, which might be understood to be 
implied in these highest works themselves. Now the appurtenances of the heaven 
and the earth, made then in the beginning, were the darkness and the deep, and 
the spirit, and the waters. For the depth and the darkness underlay the earth. 
Since 495 
the deep was under the earth, and the darkness was over the deep, undoubtedly 
both the darkness and the deep were under the earth. Below the heaven, too, lay 
the spirit and the waters. For since the waters were over the earth, which they 
covered, whilst the spirit was over the waters, both the spirit and the waters 
were alike over the earth. Now that which is over the earth, is of course under 
the heaven. And even as the earth brooded over the deep and the darkness, so 
also did the heaven brood over the spirit and the waters, and embrace them. Nor, 
indeed, is there any novelty in mentioning only that which contains, as 
pertaining to the whole, and understanding that which is contained as included 
in it, in its character of a portion. Suppose now I should say the city built a 
theatre and a circus, but the stage was of such and such a kind, and the statues 
were on the canal, and the obelisk was reared above them all, would it follow 
that, because I did not distinctly state that these specific things were made by 
the city, they were therefore not made by it along with the circus and the 
theatre? Did I not, indeed, refrain from specially mentioning the formation of 
these particular things because they were implied in the things which I had 
already said were made, and might be understood to be inherent in the things in 
which they were contained? But this example may be an idle one as being derived 
from a human circumstance; I will take another, which has the authority of 
Scripture itself. It says that "God made man of the dust of the ground and 
breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul." 
Now, although it here mentions the nostrils, it does not say that they were made 
by God; so again it speaks of skin and bones, and flesh and eyes, and sweat and 
blood, in subsequent passages, and yet it never intimated that they had been 
created by God. What will Hermogenes have to answer? That the human limbs must 
belong to Matter, because they are not specially mentioned as objects of 
creation? Or are they included in the formation of man? In like manner, the deep 
and the darkness, and the spirit and the waters, were as members of the heaven 
and the earth. For in the bodies the limbs were made, in the bodies the limbs 
too were mentioned. No element but what is a member of that element in which it 
is contained. But all elements are contained in the heaven and the earth. 
CHAP.XXXII.--THE ACCOUNT OF THE CREATION IN GENESIS A GENERAL ONE. 
CORROBORATED, HOWEVER, BY MANY OTHER PASSAGES OF THE OLD TESTAMENT, WHICH 
GIVE ACCOUNT OF SPECIFIC CREATIONS. FURTHER CAVILLINGS CONFUTED.
This is the answer I should give in defence of the Scripture before us, for 
seeming here to set forth the formation of the heaven and the earth, as if (they 
were) the sole bodies made. It could not but know that there were those who 
would at once in the bodies understand their several members also, and therefore 
it employed this concise mode of speech. But, at the same time, it foresaw that 
there would be stupid and crafty men, who, after paltering with the virtual 
meaning, would require for the several members a word descriptive of their 
formation too. It is therefore because of such persons, that Scripture in other 
passages teaches us of the creation of the individual parts. You have Wisdom 
saying, "But before the depths was I brought forth," in order that you may 
believe that the depths were also "brought forth"--that is, created--just as we 
create sons also, though we "bring them forth." It matters not whether the depth 
was made or born, so that a beginning be accorded to it, which however would not 
be, if it were subjoined to matter. Of darkness, indeed, the Lord Himself by 
Isaiah says, "I formed the light, and I created darkness." Of the wind also Amos 
says, "He that strengtheneth the thunder, and createth the wind, and declareth 
His Christ unto men;" thus showing that that wind was created which was reckoned 
with the formation of the earth, which was wafted over the waters, balancing and 
refreshing and animating all things: not (as some suppose) meaning God Himself 
by the spirit, on the ground that "God is a Spirit," because the waters would 
not be able to bear up their Lord; but He speaks of that spirit of which the 
winds consist, as He says by Isaiah, "Because my spirit went forth from me, and 
I made every blast." In like manner the 496 
same Wisdom says of the waters, "Also when He made the fountains strong, 
things which are under the sky, I was fashioning them along with Him." Now, when 
we prove that these particular things were created by God, although they are 
only mentioned in Genesis, without any intimation of their having been made, we 
shall perhaps receive from the other side the reply, that these were made, it is 
true, but out of Matter, since the very statement of Moses, "And darkness was on 
the face of the deep, and the spirit of God moved on the face of the waters," 
refers to Matter, as indeed do all those other Scriptures here and there, which 
demonstrate that the separate parts were made out of Matter. It must follow, 
then, that as earth consisted of earth, so also depth consisted of depth, and 
darkness of darkness, and the wind and waters of wind and waters. And, as we 
said above, Matter could not have been without form, since it had specific 
parts, which were formed out of it--although as separate things--unless, indeed, 
they were not separate, but were the very same with those out of which they 
came. For it is really impossible that those specific things, which are set 
forth under the same names, should have been diverse; because in that case the 
operation of God might seem to be useless, if it made things which existed 
already; since that alone would be a creation, when things came into being, 
which had not been (previously) made. Therefore, to conclude, either Moses then 
pointed to Matter when he wrote the words: "And darkness was on the face of the 
deep, and the spirit of God moved on the face of the waters;" or else, inasmuch 
as these specific parts of creation are afterwards shown in other passages to 
have been made by God, they ought to have been with equal explicitness shown to 
have been made out of the Matter which, according to you, Moses had previously 
mentioned; or else, finally, if Moses pointed to those specific parts, and not 
to Matter, I want to know where Matter has been pointed out at all. 
CHAP. XXXIII.--STATEMENT OF THE TRUE DOCTRINE CONCERNING MATTER. ITS 
RELATION TO GOD'S CREATION OF THE WORLD.
But although Hermogenes finds it amongst his own colourable pretences (for it 
was not in his power to discover it in the Scriptures of God), it is enough for 
us, both that it is certain that all things were made by God, and that there is 
no certainty whatever that they were made out of Matter. And even if Matter had 
previously existed, we must have believed that it had been really made by God, 
since we maintained (no less) when we held the rule of faith to be, that nothing 
except God was uncreated. Up to this point there is room for controversy, until 
Matter is brought to the test of the Scriptures, and fails to make good its 
case. The conclusion of the whole is this: I find that there was nothing made, 
except out of nothing; because that which I find was made, I know did not once 
exist. Whatever was made out of something, has its origin in something made: for 
instance, out of the ground was made the grass, and the fruit, and the cattle, 
and the form of man himself; so from the waters were produced the animals which 
swim and fly. The original fabrics out of which such creatures were produced I 
may call their materials, but then even these were created by God. 
CHAP. XXXIV.--A PRESUMPTION THAT ALL THINGS WERE CREATED BY GOD OUT OF 
NOTHING AFFORDED BY THE ULTIMATE REDUCTION OF ALL THINGS TO NOTHING. SCRIPTURES 
PROVING THIS REDUCTION VINDICATED FROM HERMOGENES' CHARGE OF BEING MERELY 
FIGURATIVE.
Besides, the belief that everything was made from nothing will be impressed 
upon us by that ultimate dispensation of God which will bring back all things to 
nothing. For "the very heaven shall be rolled together as a scroll;'" nay, it 
shall come to nothing along with the earth itself, with which it was made in the 
beginning. "Heaven and earth shall pass away," 
says He. "The first heaven and the first earth passed away," "and there was 
found no place for them," because, of course, that which comes to an 497 
end loses locality. In like manner David says, "The heavens, the works of 
Thine hands, shall themselves perish. For even as a vesture shall He change 
them, and they shall be changed." Now to be changed is to fall from that 
primitive state which they lose whilst undergoing the change. "And the stars too 
shall fall from heaven, even as a fig-tree casteth her green figs when she is i 
shaken of a mighty wind." "The mountains shall melt like wax at the presence of 
the Lord;" that is, "when He riseth to shake terribly the earth." "But I will 
dry up the pools;" and "they shall seek water, and they shall find none." Even" 
the sea shall be no more." Now if any person should go so far as to suppose that 
all these passages ought to be spiritually interpreted, he will yet be unable to 
deprive them of the true accomplishment of those issues which must come to pass 
just as they have been written For all figures of speech necessarily arise out 
of real things, not out of chimerical ones; t because nothing is capable of 
imparting anything of its own for a similitude, except it actually be that very 
thing which it imparts in the similitude. I return therefore to the principle 
which defines that all things which have come from nothing shall return at last 
to nothing. For God would not have made any perishable thing out of what was 
eternal, that is to say, out of Matter; neither out of greater things would He 
have created inferior ones, to whose character it would be more agreeable to 
produce greater things out of inferior ones,--in other words, what is eternal 
out of what is perishable. This is the promise He makes even to our flesh, and 
it has been His will to deposit within us this pledge of His own virtue and 
power, in order that we may believe o that He has actually awakened the universe 
out of nothing, as if it had been steeped in death, in the sense, of course, of 
its previous non-existence for the purpose of its e coming into existence. 
CHAP. XXXV.--CONTRADICTORY PROPOSITIONS ADVANCED BY HERMOGENES RESPECTING 
MATTER AND ITS QUALITIES,
As regards all other points touching Matter, although there is no necessity 
why we should treat of them (for our first point was the manifest proof of its 
existence), we must for all that pursue our discussion just as if it did exist, 
in order that its non-existence may be the more apparent, when these other 
points concerning it prove inconsistent with each other, and in order at the 
same time that Hermogenes may acknowledge his own contradictory positions. 
Matter, says he, at first sight seems to us to be incorporeal; but when examined 
by the light of right reason, it is found to be neither corporeal nor 
incorporeal. What is this right reason of yours, which declares nothing right, 
that is, nothing certain? For, if I mistake not, everything must of necessity be 
either corporeal or incorporeal (although I may for the moment allow that there 
is a certain incorporeality in even substantial things, although their very 
substance is the body of particular things); at all events, after the corporeal 
and the incorporeal there is no third state. But if it be contended that there 
is a third state discovered by this right reason of Hermogenes, which makes 
Matter neither corporeal nor incorporeal, (I ask,) Where is it? what sort of 
thing is it? what is it called? what is its description? what is it understood 
to be? This only has his reason declared, that Matter is neither corporeal nor 
incorporeal. 
CHAP. XXXVI.--OTHER ABSURD THEORIES RESPECTING MATTER AND ITS INCIDENTS 
EXPOSED IN AN IRONICAL STRAIN, MOTION IN MATTER. HERMOGENES' CONCEITS 
RESPECTING IT.
But see what a contradiction he next advances (or perhaps some other reason 
occurs to him), when he declares that Matter partly corporeal and partly 
incorporeal. Then must Matter be considered (to embrace) both conditions, in 
order that it may not have either? For it will be corporeal, and incorporeal in 
spite of the declaration of that antithesis, which is plainly above giving any 
498 
reason for its opinion, just as that "other reason" also was. Now, by the 
corporeal part of Matter, he means that of which bodies are created; but by the 
incorporeal part of Matter, he means its uncreated motion. If, says he, Matter 
were simply a body, there would appear to be in it nothing incorporeal, that is, 
motion; if, on the other hand, it had been wholly incorporeal no body could be 
formed out of it. What a peculiarly right reason have we here! Only if you make 
your sketches as right as you make your reason, Hermogenes, no painter would be 
more stupid than yourself. For who is going to allow you to reckon motion as a 
moiety of Matter, seeing that it is not a substantial thing, because it is not 
corporeal, but an accident (if indeed it be even that) of a substance and a 
body? Just as action is, and impulsion, just as a slip is, or a fall, so is 
motion. When anything moves even of itself, its motion is the result of impulse; 
but certainly it is no part of its substance in your sense, when you make motion 
the incorporeal part of matter. All things, indeed, have motion--either of 
themselves as animals, or of others as inanimate things; but yet we should not 
say that either a man or a stone was both corporeal and incorporeal because they 
had both a body and motion: we should say rather that all things have one form 
of simple corporeality, which is the essential quality of substance. If any 
incorporeal incidents accrue to them, as actions, or passions, or functions, or 
desires, we do not reckon these parts as of the things. How then does he 
contrive to assign an integral portion of Matter to motion, which does not 
pertain to substance, but to a certain condition of substance? Is not this 
incontrovertible? Suppose you had taken it into your head to represent matter as 
immoveable, would then the immobility seem to you to be a moiety of its form? 
Certainly not. Neither, in like manner, could motion. But I shall be at liberty 
to speak of motion elsewhere. 
CHAP. XXXVII.--IRONICAL DILEMMAS RESPECTING MATTER, AND SUNDRY 
MORAL QUALITIES FANCIFULLY ATTRIBUTED TO IT.
I see now that you are coming back again to that reason, which has been in 
the habit of declaring to you nothing in the way of certainty. For just as you 
introduce to our notice Matter as being neither corporeal nor incorporeal, so 
you allege of it that it is neither good nor evil; and you say, whilst arguing 
further on it in the same strain: "If it were good, seeing that it had ever been 
so, it would not require the arrangement of itself by God; if it were naturally 
evil, it would not have admitted of a change for the better, nor would God have 
ever applied to such a nature any attempt at arrangement of it, for His labour 
would have been in vain." Such are your words, which it would have been well if 
you had remembered in other passages also, so as to have avoided any 
contradiction of them. As, however, we have already treated to some extent of 
this ambiguity of good and evil touching Matter, I will now reply to the only 
proposition and argument of yours which we have before us. I shall not stop to 
repeat my opinion, that it was your bounden duty to have said for certain that 
Matter was either good or bad, or in some third condition; but (I must 
observe)that you have not here even kept to the statement which you chose to 
make before. Indeed, you retract what you declared--that Matter is neither good 
nor evil; because you imply that it is evil when you say, "If it were good, it 
would not require to be set in order by God;" so again, when you add, "If it 
were naturally evil, it would not admit of any change for the better," you seem 
to intimate that it is good. And so you attribute to it a close relation to good 
and evil, although you declared it neither good nor evil. With a view, however, 
to re lute the argument whereby you thought you were going to clinch your 
proposition, I here contend: If Matter had always been good, why should it not 
have still wanted a change for the better? Does that which is good never desire, 
never wish, never feel able to advance, so as to change its good for a better? 
And in like manner, if Matter had been by nature evil, why might it not have 
been changed by God as the more powerful Being, as able to convert the nature of 
stones into children of Abraham? Surely by such means you not only compare the 
Lord with Matter, but you even put Him below it, since you affirm that the 
nature of Matter could not 499 
possibly be brought under control by Him, and trained to something better. 
But although you are here disinclined to allow that Matter is by nature evil, 
yet in another passage you will deny having made such an admission. 
CHAP. XXXlII.--OTHER SPECULATIONS OF HERMOGENES, ABOUT MATTER AND SOME 
OF ITS 
ADJUNCTS, SHOWN TO BE ABSURD. FOR INSTANCE, ITS ALLEGED INFINITY.
My observations touching the site of Matter, as also concerning its mode have 
one and the same object in view--to meet and refute your perverse positions. You 
put Matter below God, and thus, of course, you assign a place to it below God. 
Therefore Matter is local. Now, if it is local, it is within locality; if within 
locality, it is bounded by the place within which it is; if it is bounded, it 
has an outline, which (painter as you are in your special vocation) you know is 
the boundary to every object susceptible of outline. Matter, therefore, cannot 
be infinite, which, since it is in space, is bounded by space; and being thus 
determinable by space, it is susceptible of an outline. You, however, make it 
infinite, when you say: "It is on this account infinite, because it is always 
existent." And if any of your disciples should choose to meet us by declaring 
your meaning to be that Matter is infinite in time, not in its corporeal mass, 
still what follows will show that (you mean) corporeal infinity to be an 
attribute of Matter, that it is in respect of bulk immense and un-circumscribed. 
"Wherefore," say you, "it is not fabricated as a whole, but in its parts." In 
bulk, therefore, is it infinite, not in time. And you contradict yourself when 
you make Matter infinite in bulk, and at the same time ascribe place to it, 
including it within space and local outline. But yet at the same time I cannot 
tell why God should not have entirely formed it, unless it be because He was 
either impotent or envious. I want therefore to know the moiety of that which 
was not wholly formed (by God), in order that I may understand what kind of 
thing the entirety was. It was only right that God should have made it known as 
a model of antiquity, to set off the glory of His work. 
CHAP. XXXIX.--THESE LATTER SPECULATIONS SHOWN TO BE CONTRADICTORY 
TO THE FIRST PRINCIPLES RESPECTING MATTER, FORMERLY LAID DOWN BY HERMOGENES.
Well, now, since it seems to you to be the correcter thing, let Matter be 
circumscribed by means of changes and displacements; let it also be capable of 
comprehension, since (as you say)it is used as material by God, on the ground of 
its being convertible, mutable, and separable. For its changes, you say, show it 
to be inseparable. And here you have swerved from your own lines which you 
prescribed respecting the person of God when you laid down the rule that God 
made it not out of His own self, because it was not possible for Him to become 
divided seeing that He is eternal and abiding for ever, and therefore 
unchangeable and indivisible. Since Matter too is estimated by the same 
eternity, having neither beginning nor end, it will be unsusceptible of 
division, of change, for the same reason that God also is. Since it is 
associated with Him in the joint possession of eternity, it must needs share 
with Him also the powers, the laws, and the conditions of eternity. In like 
manner, when you say, "All things simultaneously throughout the universe possess 
portions of it, that so the whole may be ascertained from its parts," you of 
course mean to indicate those parts which were produced out of it, and which are 
now visible to us. How then is this possession (of Matter)by all things 
throughout the universe effected--that is, of course, from the very 
beginning--when the things which are now visible to us are different in their 
condition from what they were in the beginning? 
CHAP. XL.--SHAPELESS MATTER AN INCONGRUOUS ORIGIN FOR GOD'S BEAUTIFUL 
COSMOS. HERMOGENES DOES NOT MEND HIS ARGUMENT BY SUPPOSING THAT ONLY A PORTION 
OF MATTER WAS USED IN THE CREATION.
You say that Matter was reformed for the betters--from a worse condition, of 
course; and thus you would make the better a copy of 500 
the worse. Everything was in confusion, but now it is reduced to order; and 
would you also say, that out of order, disorder is produced? No one thing is the 
exact mirror of another thing; that is to say, it is not its co-equal. Nobody 
ever found himself in a barber's looking-glass look like an ass instead of a 
man; unless it be he who supposes that unformed and shapeless Matter answers to 
Matter which is now arranged and beautified in the fabric of the world. What is 
there now that is without form in the world, what was there once that was formed 
in Matter, that the world is the mirror of Matter? Since the world is known 
among the Greeks by a term denoting ornament, how can it present the image of 
unadorned Matter, in such a way that you can say the whole is known by its 
parts? To that whole will certainly belong even the portion which has not yet 
become formed; and you have already declared that the whole of Matter was not 
used as material in the creation. It follows, then, that this rude, and 
confused, and unarranged portion cannot be recognized in the polished, and 
distinct and well-arranged parts of creation, which indeed can hardly with 
propriety be called parts of Matter, since they have quit-ted its condition, by 
being separated from it in the transformation they have undergone. 
CHAP. XLI.--SUNDRY QUOTATIONS FROM HERMOGENES. NOW UNCERTAIN AND VAGUE ARE 
HIS SPECULATIONS RESPECTING MOTION IN MATTER, AND THE MATERIAL QUALITIES OF GOOD 
AND EVIL.
I come back to the point of motion, that I may show how slippery you are at 
every step. Motion in Matter was disordered, and confused, and turbulent. This 
is why you apply to it the comparison of a boiler of hot water surging over. Now 
how is it, that in another passage another sort of motion is affirmed by you? 
For when you want to represent Matter as neither good nor evil, you say: 
"Matter, which is the substratum (of creation) possessing as it does motion in 
an equable impulse, tends in no very great degree either to good or to evil." 
Now if it had this equable impulse, it could not be turbulent, nor be like the 
boiling water of the caldron; it would rather be even and regular, oscillating 
indeed of its own accord between good and evil, but yet not prone or tending to 
either side. It would swing, as the phrase is, in a just and exact balance. Now 
this is not unrest; this is not turbulence or inconstancy;" but rather the 
regularity, and evenness, and exactitude of a motion, inclining to neither side. 
If it oscillated this way and that way, and inclined rather to one particular 
side, it would plainly in that case merit the reproach of unevenness, and 
inequality, and turbulence. Moreover, although the motion of Matter was not 
prone either to good or to evil, it would still, of course, oscillate between 
good and evil; so that from this circumstance too it is obvious that Matter is 
contained within certain limits, because its motion, while prone to neither good 
nor evil, since it had no natural bent either way, oscillated from either 
between both, and therefore was contained within the limits of the two. But you, 
in fact, place both good and evil in a local habitation, when you assert that 
motion in Matter inclined to neither of them. For Matter which was local, when 
inclining neither hither nor thither, inclined not to the places in which good 
and evil were. But when you assign locality to good and evil, you make them 
corporeal by making them local, since those things which have local space must 
needs first have bodily substance. In fact, incorporeal things could not have 
any locality of their own except in a body, when they have access to a body. But 
when Matter inclined not to good and evil, it was as corporeal or local essences 
that it did not incline to them. You err, therefore, when you will have it that 
good and evil are substances. For you make substances of the things to which you 
assign locality; but you assign locality when you keep motion in Matter poised 
equally distant from both sides. 
CHAP. XLII.--FURTHER EXPOSURE OF INCONSISTENCIES IN THE OPINIONS OF 
HERMOGENES RESPECTING THE DIVINE QUALITIES OF MATTER.
You have thrown out all your views loosely and at random, in order that it 
might not be apparent, by too close a proximity, how contrary they are to one 
another. I, however, mean to gather them together and compare them. You allege 
that motion in Matter is 501 
without regularity, and you go on to say that Matter aims at a shapeless 
condition, and I then, in another passage, that it desires to be set in order by 
God. Does that, then, which affects to be without form, want to be put into 
shape? Or does that which wants to be put into shape, affect to be without form? 
You are unwilling that God should seem to be equal to Matter; and then again you 
say that it has a common condition with God. "For [t is impossible," you say, 
"if it has nothing in common with God, that it can be set in order by Him." But 
if it had anything in common with God, it did not want to be set in order for 
being, forsooth, a part of the Deity through a community of condition; or else 
even God was susceptible of being set in order by Matter, by His having Himself 
something in common with it. And now you herein subject God to necessity, since 
there was in Matter something on account of which He gave it form. You make it, 
however, a common attribute of both of them, that they set themselves in motion 
by themselves, and that they are ever in motion. What less do you ascribe to 
Matter than to God? There will be found all through a fellowship of divinity in 
this freedom and perpetuity of motion. 
Only in God motion is regular, in Matter irregular. In both, however, there 
is equally the attribute of Deity--both alike having free and eternal motion. At 
the same time, you assign more to Matter, to which belonged the privilege of 
thus moving itself in a way not allowed to God. 
CHAP. XLIII.--OTHER DISCREPANCIES EXPOSED AND REFUTED RESPECTING THE EVIL 
IN MATTER BEING CHANGED TO GOOD.
On the subject of motion I would make this further remark. Following the 
simile of the boiling caldron, you say that motion in Matter, before it was 
regulated, was confused, restless, incomprehensible by reason of excess in the 
commotion. Then again you go on to say, "But it waited for the regulation of 
God, and kept its irregular motion incomprehensible, owing to the tardiness of 
its irregular motion." Just before you ascribe commotion, here tardiness, to 
motion. Now observe how many slips you make respecting the nature of Matter. In 
a former passage you say, "If Matter were naturally evil, it would not have 
admitted of a change for the better; nor would God have ever applied to it any 
attempt at arrangement, for His labour would have been in vain." You therefore 
concluded your two opinions, that Matter was not by nature evil, and that its 
nature was incapable of being changed by God; and then, forgetting them, you 
afterwards drew this inference: "But when it received adjustment from God, and 
was reduced to order, it relinquished its nature." Now, inasmuch as it was 
transformed to good, it was of course transformed from evil; and if by God's 
setting it in order it relinquished the nature of evil, it follows that its 
nature came to an end; now its nature was evil before the adjustment, but after 
the transformation it might have relinquished that nature. 
CHAP. XLIV.--CURIOUS VIEWS RESPECTING GOD'S METHOD OF WORKING WITH MATTER 
EXPOSED. DISCREPANCIES IN THE HERETIC'S OPINION ABOUT GOD'S LOCAL RELATION TO 
MATTER.
But it remains that I should show also how you make God work. You are plainly 
enough at variance with the philosophers; but neither are you in accord with the 
prophets. The Stoics maintain that God pervaded Matter, just as honey the 
honeycomb. You, however, affirm that it is not by pervading Matter that God 
makes the world, but simply by appearing, and approaching it, just as beauty 
affects a thing by simply appearing, and a loadstone by approaching it. Now what 
similarity is there in God forming the world, and beauty wounding a soul, or a 
magnet attracting iron? For even if God appeared to Matter, He yet did not wound 
it, as beauty does the soul; if, again, He approached it, He yet did not cohere 
to it, as the magnet does to the iron. 
Suppose, however, that your examples are suitable ones. Then, of course, it 
was by appearing and approaching to Matter that God made the world, and He made 
it when He appeared and when He approached to it. Therefore, since He had not 
made it before then? He had neither appeared nor approached to it. Now, by whom 
can it be believed that God had not appeared to Matter--of the same nature as it 
even was owing to its eternity? Or that He had been at a distance from it--even 
He whom we believe to be existent everywhere, and everywhere apparent; whose 
praises all things chant, even inanimate things and things incorporeal, ac 502 
cording to (the prophet) Daniel? How immense the place, where God kept 
Himself so far aloof from Matter as to have neither appeared nor approached to 
it before the creation of the world! I suppose He journeyed to it from a long 
distance, as soon as He washed to appear and approach to it. 
CHAP. XLV.--CONCLUSION. CONTRAST BETWEEN THE STATEMENTS OF HERMOGENES
AND THE TESTIMONY OF HOLY SCRIPTURE RESPECTING THE CREATION, CREATION OUT 
OF NOTHING, NOT OUT OF MATTER.
But it is not thus that the prophets and the apostles have told us that the 
world was made by God merely appearing and approaching Matter. They did not even 
mention any Matter, but (said) that Wisdom was first set up, the beginning of 
His ways, for His works. Then that the Word was produced, "through whom all 
things were made, and without whom nothing was made." 
Indeed, "by the Word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all their hosts 
by the breath of His mouth." He is the Lord's right hand, indeed His two bands, 
by which He worked and constructed the universe. " For," says He, "the heavens 
are the works of Thine hands," wherewith "He hath meted out the heaven, and the 
earth with a span." Do not be willing so to cover God with flattery, as to 
contend that He produced by His mere appearance and simple approach so many vast 
substances, instead of rather forming them by His own energies. For this is 
proved by Jeremiah when he says, "God hath made the earth by His power, He hath 
established the world by His wisdom, and hath stretched out the heaven by His 
understanding." These are the energies by the stress of which He made this 
universe. His glory is greater if He laboured. At length on the seventh day He 
rested from His works. Both one and the other were after His manner. If, on the 
contrary, He made this world simply by appearing and approaching it, did He, on 
the completion of His work, cease to appear and approach it any more. Nay 
rather, God began to appear more conspicuously and to be everywhere accessible 
from the time when the world was made. You see, therefore, how all things 
consist by the operation of that God who "made the earth by His power, who 
established the world by His wisdom, and stretched out the heaven by His 
understanding;" not appearing merely, nor approaching, but applying the almighty 
efforts of His mind, His wisdom, His power, His understanding, His word, His 
Spirit, His might. Now these things were not necessary to Him, if He had been 
perfect by simply appearing and approaching. They are, however, His "invisible 
things," which, according to the apostle, "are from the creation of the world 
clearly seen by the things that are made; they are no parts of a nondescript 
Matter, but they are the sensible evidences of Himself. "For who hath known the 
mind of the Lord," of which (the apostle) exclaims: "O the depth of the riches 
both of His wisdom and knowledge! how unsearchable are His judgments, and His 
ways past finding out! " Now what clearer truth do these words indicate, than 
that all things were made out of nothing? They are incapable of being found out 
or investigated, except by God alone. Otherwise, if they were traceable or 
discoverable in Matter, they would be capable of investigation. Therefore, in as 
far as it has become evident that Matter had no prior existence (even from this 
circumstance, that it is impossible for it to have had such an existence as is 
assigned to it), in so far is it proved that all things were made by God out of 
nothing. It must be admitted, however, that Hermogenes, by describing for Matter 
a condition like his own--irregular, confused, turbulent, of a doubtful and 
precipate and fervid impulse--has displayed a specimen of his own art, and 
painted his own portrait. 
Electronic version copyright  1997 by New Advent, Inc.


