
Theophilus of Antioch











THEOPHILUS TO AUTOLYCUS. 
BOOK III. 
CHAP. I.--AUTOLYCUS NOT YET CONVINCED. 
THEOPHILUS to Autolycus, greeting: Seeing that writers are fond of composing 
a multitude of books for vainglory,--some concerning gods, and wars, and 
chronology, and some, too, concerning useless legends, and other such labour in 
vain, in which you also have been used to employ yourself until now, and do not 
grudge to endure that toil; but though you conversed with me, are still of 
opinion that the word of truth is an idle tale, and suppose that our writings 
are recent and modern;--on this account I also will not grudge the labour of 
compendiously setting forth to you, God helping me, the antiquity of our books, 
reminding you of it in few words, that you may not grudge the labour of reading 
it, but may recognise the folly of the other authors. 
CHAP. II.--PROFANE AUTHORS HAD NO MEANS OF KNOWING THE TRUTH. 
For it was fit that they who wrote should themselves have been eye-witnesses 
of those things concerning which they made assertions, or should accurately have 
ascertained them from those who had seen them; for they who write of things 
unascertained beat the air. For what did it profit Homer to have composed the 
Trojan war, and to have deceived many; or Hesiod, the register of the theogony 
of those whom he calls gods; or Orpheus, the three hundred and sixty-five gods, 
whom in the end of his life he rejects, maintaining in his precepts that there 
is one God? What profit did the sphaerography of the world's circle confer on 
Aratus, or those who held the same doctrine as he, except glory among men? And 
not even that did they reap as they deserved. And what truth did they utter? Or 
what good did their tragedies do to Euripides and Sophocles, or the other 
tragedians? Or their comedies to Menander and Aristophanes, and the other 
comedians? Or their histories to Herodotus and Thucydides? Or the shrines and 
the pillars of Hercules to Pythagoras, or the Cynic philosophy to Diogenes? What 
good did it do Epicurus to maintain that there is no providence; or Empedocles 
to teach atheism; or Socrates to swear by the dog, and the goose, and the 
plane-tree, and AEsculapius struck by lightning, and the demons whom he invoked? 
And why did he willingly die? What reward, or of what kind, did he expect to 
receive after death? What did Plato's system of culture profit him? Or what 
benefit did the rest of the philosophers derive from their doctrines, not to 
enumerate the whole of them, since they are numerous? But these things we say, 
for the purpose of exhibiting their useless and godless opinions. 
CHAP. III.--THEIR CONTRADICTIONS. 
For all these, having fallen in love with vain and empty reputation, neither 
themselves knew the truth, nor guided others to the truth: for the things which 
they said themselves convict them of speaking inconsistently; and most of them 
demolished their own doctrines. For not only did they refute one another, but 
some, too, even stultified their own teachings; so that their reputation has 
issued in shame and folly, for they are condemned by men of understanding. For 
either they made assertions concerning the gods, and afterwards taught that 
there was no god; or if they spoke even of the creation of the world, they 
finally said that all things were produced spontaneously. Yea, and even speaking 
of providence, they taught again that the world was not ruled by providence. But 
what? Did they not, when they essayed to write even of honourable conduct, teach 
the perpetration of lasciviousness, and fornication, and adultery; and did they 
not introduce hateful and unutterable wickedness? And they proclaim that their 
gods took the lead in committing unutterable acts of adultery, and in monstrous 
banquets. For who does not sing Saturn devouring his own children, and Jove his 
son gulping down Metis, and preparing for the gods a horrible feast, at which 
also they say that Vulcan, a lame blacksmith, did the waiting; and how Jove not 
only married Juno, his own sister, but also with foul mouth did abominable 
wickedness? And the rest of his deeds, as many as the poets sing, it is likely 
you are acquainted with. Why need I further recount the deeds of Neptune and 
Apollo, or Bacchus and Hercules, of the bosom-loving Minerva, and the shameless 
Venus, since in another place we have given a more accurate account of these? 
CHAP. IV.--HOW AUTOLYCUS HAD BEEN MISLED BY FALSE ACCUSATIONS AGAINST THE 
CHRISTIANS. 
Nor indeed was there any necessity for my refuting these, except that I see 
you still in dubiety about the word of the truth. For though yourself prudent, 
you endure fools gladly. Otherwise you would not have been moved by senseless 
men to yield yourself to empty words, and to give credit to the prevalent rumor 
wherewith godless lips falsely accuse us, who are worshippers of God, and are 
called Christians, alleging that the wives of us all are held in common and made 
promiscuous use of; and that we even commit incest with our own sisters, and, 
what is most impious and barbarous of all, that we eat human flesh. But further, 
they say that our doctrine has but recently come to light, and that we have 
nothing to allege in proof of what we receive as truth, nor of our teaching, but 
that our doctrine is foolishness. I wonder, then, chiefly that you, who in other 
matters are studious, and a scrutinizer of all things, give but a careless 
hearing to us. For, if it were possible for you, you would not grudge to spend 
the night in the libraries 
CHAP. V.--PHILOSOPHERS INCULCATE CANNIBALISM. 
Since, then, you have read much, what is your opinion of the precepts of 
Zeno, and Diogenes, and Cleanthes, which their books contain, inculcating the 
eating of human flesh: that fathers be cooked and eaten by their own children; 
and that if any one refuse or reject a part of this infamous food, he himself be 
devoured who will riot eat? An utterance even more godless than these is 
found,--that, namely, of Diogenes, who teaches children to bring their own 
parents in sacrifice, and devour them. And does not the historian Herodotus 
narrate that Cambyses, when he had slaughtered the children of Harpagus, cooked 
them also, and set them as a meal before their father? And, still further, he 
narrates that among the Indians the parents are eaten by their own children. Oh! 
the godless teaching of those who recorded, yea, rather, inculcated such things! 
Oh! their wickedness and godlessness! Oh! the conception of those who thus 
accurately philosophized, and profess philosophy! For they who taught these 
doctrines have filled the world with iniquity. 
CHAP, VI.--OTHER OPINIONS OF THE PHILOSOPHERS. 
And regarding lawless conduct, those who have blindly wandered into the choir 
of philosophy have, almost to a man, spoken with one voice. Certainly Plato, to 
mention him first who seems to have been the most respectable philosopher among 
them, expressly, as it were, legislates in his first book, entitled The 
Republic, that the wives of all be common, using the precedent of the son s of 
Jupiter and the lawgiver of the Cretans, in order that under this pretext there 
might be an abundant offspring from the best persons, and that those who were 
worn with toil might be comforted by such intercourse. And Epicurus himself, 
too, as well as teaching atheism, teaches along with it incest with mothers and 
sisters, and this in transgression of the laws which forbid it; for Solon 
distinctly legislated regarding this, in order that from a married parent 
children might lawfully spring, that they might not be born of adultery, so that 
no one should honour as his father him who was not his father, or dishonour him 
who was really his father, through ignorance that he was so. And these things 
the other laws of the Romans and Greeks also prohibit. Why, then, do Epicurus 
and the Stoics teach incest and sodomy, with which doctrines they have filled 
libraries, so that from boyhood this lawless intercourse is learned? And why 
should I further spend time on them, since even of those they call gods they 
relate similar things? 
CHAP. VII.--VARYING DOCTRINE CONCERNING THE GODS. 
For after they had said that these are gods, they again made them of no 
account. For some said that they were composed of atoms; and others, again, that 
they eventuate in atoms; and they say that the gods have no more power than men. 
Plato, too, though he says these are gods, would have them composed of matter. 
And Pythagoras, after he had made such a toil and moil about the gods, and 
travelled up and down [for information], at last determines that all things are 
produced naturally and spontaneously, and that the gods care nothing for men. 
And how many atheistic opinions Clitomachus the academician introduced, [I need 
not recount.] And did not Critias and Protagoras of Abdera say, "For whether the 
gods exist, I am not able to affirm concerning them, nor to explain of what 
nature they are; for there are many things would prevent me"? And to speak of 
the opinions of the most atheistical, Euhemerus, is superfluous, For having made 
many daring assertions concerning the gods, he at last would absolutely deny 
their existence, and have all things to be governed by self-regulated action. 
And Plato, who spoke so much of the unity of God and of the soul of man, 
asserting that the soul is immortal, is not he himself afterwards found, 
inconsistently with himself, to maintain that some souls pass into other men, 
and that others take their departure into irrational animals? How can his 
doctrine fail to seem dreadful and monstrous--to those at least who have any 
judgment--that he who was once a man shall afterwards be a wolf, or a dog, or an 
ass, or some other irrational brute? Pythagoras, too, is found venting similar 
nonsense, besides his demolishing providence. Which of them, then, shall we 
believe? Philemon, the comic poet, who says,- "Good hope have they who praise 
and serve the gods;" or those whom we have mentioned--Euhemerus, and Epicurus, 
and Pythagoras, and the others who deny that the gods are to be worshipped, and 
who abolish providence? Concerning God and providence, Ariston said:- "Be of 
good courage: God will still preserve And greatly help all those who so deserve. 

If no promotion waits on faithful men, Say what advantage goodness offers 
then. 
'Tis granted--yet I often see the just Faring but ill, from ev'ry honour 
thrust; While they whose own advancement is their aim, Oft in this present life 
have all they claim. 
But we must look beyond, and wait the end, That consummation to which all 
things tend. 
'Tis not, as vain and wicked men have said, By an unbridled destiny we're 
led: 
It is not blinded chance that rules the world, Nor uncontrolled are all 
things onward hurled. 
The wicked blinds himself with this belief; But be ye sure, of all rewards, 
the chief Is still reserved for those who holy live; And Providence to wicked 
men will give Only the just reward which is their meed, And fitting punishment 
for each bad deed." 
And one can see how inconsistent with each other are the things which others, 
and indeed almost the majority, have said about God and providence. For some 
have absolutely cancelled God and providence; and others, again, have affirmed 
God, and have avowed that all things are governed by providence. The intelligent 
hearer and reader must therefore give minute attention to their expressions; as 
also Simylus said: "It is the custom of the poets to name by a common 
designation the surpassingly wicked and the excellent; we therefore must 
discriminate." As also Philemon says: "A senseless man who sits and merely hears 
is a troublesome feature; for he does not blame himself, so foolish is he." We 
must then give attention, and consider what is said, critically inquiring into 
what has been uttered by the philosophers and the poets. 
CHAP. VIII.--WICKEDNESS ATTRIBUTED TO THE GODS BY HEATHEN WRITERS. 
For, denying that there are gods, they again acknowledge their existence, and 
they said they committed grossly wicked deeds. And, first, of Jove the poets 
euphoniously sing the wicked actions. And Chrysippus, who talked a deal of 
nonsense, is he not found publishing that Juno had the foulest intercourse with 
Jupiter? For why should I recount the impurities of the so-called mother of the 
gods, or of Jupiter Latiaris thirsting for human blood, or the castrated Attis; 
or of Jupiter, surnamed Tragedian, and how he defiled himself, as they say, and 
now is worshipped among the Romans as a god? I am silent about the temples of 
Antinous, and of the others whom you call gods. For when related to sensible 
persons, they excite laughter. They who elaborated such a philosophy regarding 
either the non-existence of God, or promiscuous intercourse and beastly 
concubinage, are themselves condemned by their own teachings. Moreover, we find 
from the writings they composed that the eating of human flesh was received 
among them; and they record that those whom they honour as gods were the first 
to do these things. 
CHAP. IX.--CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE OF GOD AND HIS LAW. 
Now we also confess that God exists, but that He is one, the creator, and 
maker, and fashioner of this universe; and we know that all things are arranged 
by His providence, but by Him alone. And we have learned a holy law; but we have 
as lawgiver Him who is really God, who teaches us to act righteously, and to be 
pious, and to do good. And concerning piety He says, "Thou shalt have no other 
gods before me. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness 
of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is 
in the water under the earth: thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve 
them: for I am the LORD thy God." And of doing good He said: "Honour thy father 
and thy mother; that it may be well with thee, and that thy days may be long in 
the land which I the LORD God give thee." Again, concerning righteousness: "Thou 
shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt 
not bear false witness against thy neighbour. Thou shalt not covet thy 
neighbour's wife, thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house, nor his land, nor 
his man-servant, nor his maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his beast of burden, nor 
any of his cattle, nor anything that is thy neighbour's. Thou shalt not wrest 
the judgment of the poor in his cause. From every unjust matter keep thee far. 
The innocent and righteous thou shalt not slay; thou shalt not justify the 
wicked; and thou shalt not take a gift, for gifts blind the eyes of them that 
see and pervert righteous words." Of this divine law, then, Moses, who also was 
God's servant, was made the minister both to all the world, and chiefly to the 
Hebrews, who were also called Jews, whom an Egyptian king had in ancient days 
enslaved, and who were the righteous seed of godly and holy men--Abraham, and 
Isaac, and Jacob. God, being mindful of them, and doing marvellous and strange 
miracles by the hand of Moses, delivered them, and led them out of Egypt, 
leading them through what is called the desert; whom He also settled again in 
the land of Canaan, which afterwards was called Judaea, and gave them a law, and 
taught them these things. Of this great and wonderful law, which tends to all 
righteousness, the ten heads are such as we have already rehearsed. 
CHAP. X.--OF HUMANITY TO STRANGERS. 
Since therefore they were strangers in the land of Egypt, being by birth 
Hebrews from the land of Chaldaea,--for at that time, there being a famine, they 
were obliged to migrate to Egypt for the sake of buying food there, I where also 
for a time they sojourned; and these things befell them in accordance with a 
prediction of God,--having sojourned, then, in Egypt for 430 years, when Moses 
was about to lead them out into the desert, God taught them by the law, saying, 
"Ye shall not afflict a stranger; for ye know the heart of a stranger: for 
yourselves were strangers in the land of Egypt." 
CHAP. XI.--OF REPENTANCE. 
And when the people transgressed the law which had been given to them by God, 
God being good and pitiful, unwilling to destroy them, in addition to His giving 
them the law, afterwards sent forth also prophets to them from among their 
brethren, to teach and remind them of the contents of the law, and to turn them 
to repentance, that they might sin no more. But if they persisted in their 
wicked deeds, He forewarned them that they should be delivered into subjection 
to all the kingdoms of the earth; and that this has already happened them is 
manifest. Concerning repentance, then, Isaiah the prophet, generally indeed to 
all, but expressly to the people, says: "Seek ye the LORD while He may be found, 
call ye upon Him while He is near: let the wicked forsake his ways, and the 
unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the LORD his God, and he 
will find mercy, for He will abundantly pardon." And another prophet, Ezekiel, 
says: "If the wicked will turn from all his sins that he hath committed, and 
keep all My statutes, and do that which is right in My sight, he shall surely 
live, he shall not die. All his transgressions that he hath committed, they 
shall not be mentioned unto him; but in his righteousness that he hath done he 
shall live: for I desire not the death of the sinner, saith the Lord, but that 
he turn from his wicked way, and live." Again Isaiah: "Ye who take deep and 
wicked counsel, turn ye, that ye may be saved." And another prophet, Jeremiah: 
"Turn to the LORD your God, as a grape-gatherer to his basket, and ye shall find 
mercy." Many therefore, yea rather, countless are the sayings in the Holy 
Scriptures regarding repentance, God being always desirous that the race of men 
turn from all their sins. 
CHAP. XII.--OF RIGHTEOUSNESS. 
Moreover, concerning the righteousness which the law enjoined, confirmatory 
utterances are found both with the prophets and in the Gospels, because they all 
spoke inspired by one Spirit of God. Isaiah accordingly spoke thus: "Put away 
the evil of your doings from your souls; learn to do well, seek judgment, 
relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow." And again the 
same prophet said: "Loose every band of wickedness, dissolve every oppressive 
contract, let the oppressed go free, and tear up every unrighteous bond. Deal 
out thy bread to the hungry, and bring the houseless poor to thy home. When thou 
seest the naked, cover him, and hide not thyself from thine own flesh. Then 
shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thine health shall spring forth 
speedily, and thy righteousness shall go before thee." In like manner also 
Jeremiah says: "Stand in the ways, and see, and ask which is the good way of the 
LORD your God, and walk in it and ye shall find rest for your souls. Judge just 
judgment, for in this is the will of the LoRD your God." So also says Hosea: 
"Keep judgment, and draw near to your God, who established the heavens and 
created the earth." And another, Joel, spoke in agreement with these: "Gather 
the people, sanctify the congregation, assemble the elders, gather the children 
that are in arms; let the bridegroom go forth of his chamber, and the bride out 
of her closet, and pray to the LORD thy God urgently that he may have mercy upon 
you, and blot out your sins." In like manner also another, Zachariah: "Thus 
saith the LORD Almighty, Execute true judgment, and show mercy and compassion 
every man to his brother; and oppress not the widow, nor the fatherless, nor the 
stranger; and let none of you imagine evil against his brother in your heart, 
saith the LORD Almighty." 
CHAP. XIII.--OF CHASTITY. 
And concerning chastity, the holy word teaches us not only not to sin in act, 
but not even in thought, not even in the heart to think of any evil, nor look on 
another man's wife with our eyes to lust after her. Solomon, accordingly, who 
was a king and a prophet, said: "Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine 
eyelids look straight before thee: make straight paths for your feet." And the 
voice of the Gospel teaches still more urgently concerning chastity, saying: 
"Whosoever looketh on a woman who is not his own wife, to lust after her, hath 
committed adultery with her already in his heart." "And he that marrieth," says 
[the Gospel], "her that is divorced from her husband, committeth adultery; and 
whosoever putteth away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth 
her to commit adultery." Because Solomon says: "Can a man take fire in his 
bosom, and his clothes not be burned? Or can one walk upon hot coals, and his 
feet not be burned? So he that goeth in to a married woman shall not be 
innocent." 
CHAP. XIV.--OF LOVING OUR ENEMIES. 
And that we should be kindly disposed, not only towards those of our own 
stock, as some suppose, Isaiah the prophet said: "Say to those that hate you, 
and that cast you out, Ye are our brethren, that the name of the LORD may be 
glorified, and be apparent in their joy." And the Gospel says: "Love your 
enemies, and pray for them that despitefully use you. For if ye love them who 
love you, what reward have ye? This do also the robbers and the publicans." And 
those that do good it teaches not to boast, lest they become men-pleasers. For 
it says: "Let not your left hand know what your right hand doeth." Moreover, 
concerning subjection to authorities and powers, and prayer for them, the divine 
word gives us instructions, in order that "we may lead a quiet and peaceable 
life." And it teaches us to render all things to all, "honour to whom honour, 
fear to whom fear, tribute to whom tribute; to owe no man anything, but to love 
all." 
CHAP. XV.--THE INNOCENCE OF THE CHRISTIANS DEFENDED. 
Consider, therefore, whether those who teach such things can possibly live 
indifferently, and be commingled in unlawful intercourse, or, most impious of 
all, eat human flesh, especially when we are forbidden so much as to witness 
shows of gladiators, lest we become partakers and abettors of murders. But 
neither may we see the other spectacles, lest our eyes and ears be defiled, 
participating in the utterances there sung. For if one should speak of 
cannibalism, in these spectacles the children of Thyestes and Tereus are eaten; 
and as for adultery, both in the case of men and of gods, whom they celebrate in 
elegant language for honours and prizes, this is made the subject of their 
dramas. But far be it from Christians to conceive any such deeds; for with them 
temperance dwells, self-restraint is practised, monogamy is observed, chastity 
is guarded, iniquity exterminated, sin extirpated, righteousness exercised, law 
administered, worship performed, God acknowledged: truth governs, grace guards, 
peace screens them; the holy word guides, wisdom teaches, life directs, God 
reigns. Therefore, though we have much to say regarding our manner of life, and 
the ordinances of God, the maker of all creation, we yet consider that we have 
for the present reminded you of enough to induce you to study these things, 
especially since you can now read [our writings] for yourself, that as you have 
been fond of acquiring information, you may still be studious in this direction 
also. 
CHAP. XVI.--UNCERTAIN CONJECTURES OF THE PHILOSOPHERS. 
But I wish now to give you a more accurate demonstration, God helping me, of 
the historical periods, that you may see that our doctrine is not modern nor 
fabulous, but more ancient and true than all poets and authors who have written 
in uncertainty. For some, maintaining that the world was uncreated, went into 
infinity; and others, asserting that it was created, said that already 153, 075 
years had passed. This is stated by Apollonius the Egyptian. And Plato, who is 
esteemed to have been the wisest of the Greeks, into what nonsense did he run? 
For in his book entitled The Republic, we find him expressly saying: "For if 
things had in all time remained in their present arrangement, when ever could 
any new thing be discovered? For ten thousand times ten thousand years elapsed 
without record, and one thousand or twice as many years have gone by since some 
things were discovered by Daedalus, and some by Orpheus, and some by Palamedes." 
And when he says that these things happened, he implies that ten thousand times 
ten thousand years elapsed from the flood to Daedalus. And after he has said a 
great deal about the cities of the world, and the settlements, and the nations, 
he owns that he has said these things conjecturally. For he says, "If then, my 
friend, some god should promise us, that if we attempted to make a survey of 
legislation, the things now said," etc., which shows that he was speaking by 
guess; and if by guess, then what he says is not true. 
CHAP. XVII.--ACCURATE INFORMATION OF THE CHRISTIANS. 
It behoved, therefore, that he should the rather become a scholar of God in 
this matter of legislation, as he himself confessed that in no other way could 
he gain accurate information than by God's teaching him through the law. And did 
not the poets Homer and Hesiod and Orpheus profess that they themselves had been 
instructed by Divine Providence? Moreover, it is said that among your writers 
there were prophets and prognosticators, and that those wrote accurately: who 
were informed by them. How much more, then, shall we know the truth who are 
instructed by the holy prophets, who were possessed by the Holy Spirit of God! 
On this account all the prophets spoke harmoniously and in agreement with one 
another, and foretold the things that would come to pass in all the world. For 
the very accomplishment of predicted and already consummated events should 
demonstrate to those who are fond of information, yea rather, who are lovers of 
truth, that those things are really true which they declared concerning the 
epochs and eras before the deluge: to wit, how the years have run on since the 
world was created until now, so as to manifest the ridiculous mendacity of your 
authors, and show that their statements are not true. 
CHAP. XVIII.--ERRORS OF THE GREEKS ABOUT THE DELUGE. 
For Plato, as we said above, when he had demonstrated that a deluge had 
happened, said that it extended not over the whole earth, but only over the 
plains, and that those who fled to the highest hills saved themselves. But 
others say that there existed Deucalion and Pyrrha, and that they were preserved 
in a chest; and that Deucalion, after he came out of the chest, flung stones 
behind him, and that men were produced from the stones; from which circumstance 
they say that men in the mass are named "people." Others, again, say that 
Clymenus existed in a second flood. From what has already been said, it is 
evident that they who wrote such things and philosophized to so little purpose 
are miserable, and very profane and senseless persons. But Moses, our prophet 
and the servant of God, in giving an account of the genesis of the world, 
related in what manner the flood came upon the earth, telling us, besides, how 
the details of the flood came about, and relating no fable of Pyrrha nor of 
Deucalion or Clymenus; nor, forsooth, that only the plains were submerged, and 
that those only who escaped to the mountains were saved. 
CHAP. XIX.--ACCURATE ACCOUNT OF THE DELUGE. 
And neither does he make out that there was a second flood: on the contrary, 
he said that never again would there be a flood of water on the world; as 
neither indeed has there been, nor ever shall be. And he says that eight human 
beings were preserved in the ark, in that which had been prepared by God's 
direction, not by Deucalion, but by Noah; which Hebrew word means in English 
"rest," as we have elsewhere shown that Noah, when he announced to the men then 
alive that there was a flood coming, prophesied to them, saying, Come thither, 
God calls you to repentance. On this account he was fitly called Deucalion. And 
this Noah had three sons (as we mentioned in the second book), whose names were 
Shem, and Ham, and Japhet; and these had three wives, one wife each; each man 
and his wife. This man some have surnamed Eunuchus. All the eight persons, 
therefore, who were found in the ark were preserved. And Moses showed that the 
flood lasted forty days and forty nights, torrents pouring from heaven, and from 
the fountains of the deep breaking up, so that the water overtopped every high 
hill 15 cubits. And thus the race of all the men that then were was destroyed, 
and those only who were protected in the ark were saved; and these, we have 
already said, were eight. And of the ark, the remains are to this day to be seen 
in the Arabian mountains. This, then, is in sum the history of the deluge. 
CHAP. XX.--ANTIQUITY OF MOSES. 
And Moses, becoming the leader of the Jews, as we have already stated, was 
expelled from the land of Egypt by the king, Pharaoh, whose name was Amasis, and 
who, they say, reigned after the expulsion of the people 25 years and 4 months, 
as Manetho assumes. And after him [reigned] Chebron, 13 years. And after him 
Amenophis, 20 years 7 months. And after him his sister Amessa, 21 years 1 month. 
And after her Mephres, 12 years 9 months. And after him Methramuthosis, 20 years 
and 10 months. And after him Tythmoses, 9 years 8 months. And after him 
Damphenophis, 30 years 10 months. And after him Orus, years 5 months. And after 
him his daughter, 10 years 3 months. After her Mercheres, 12 years 3 months. And 
after him his son Armais, 30 years 1 month. After him Messes, son of Miammus, 6 
years, 2 months. After him Rameses, 1 year 4 months. After him Amenophis, 19 
years 6 months. After him his sons Thoessus and Rameses, 10 years, who, it is 
said, had a large cavalry force and naval equipment. The Hebrews, indeed, after 
their own separate history, having at that time migrated into the land of Egypt, 
and been enslaved by the king Tethmosis, as already said, built for him strong 
cities, Peitho, and Rameses, and On, which is Heliopolis; so that the Hebrews, 
who also are our ancestors, and from whom we have those sacred books which are 
older than all authors, as already said, are proved to be more ancient than the 
cities which were at that time renowned among the Egyptians. And the country was 
called Egypt from the king Sethos. For the word Sethos, they say, is pronounced 
"Egypt." And Sethos had a brother, by name Armais. He is called Danaus, the same 
who passed from Egypt to Argos, whom the other authors mention as being of very 
ancient date. 
CHAP. XXI.--OF MANETHO'S INACCURACY. 
And Manetho, who among the Egyptians gave out a great deal of nonsense, and 
even impiously charged Moses and the Hebrews who accompanied him with being 
banished from Egypt on account of leprosy, could give no accurate chronological 
statement. For when he said they were shepherds, and enemies of the Egyptians, 
he uttered truth indeed, because he was forced to do so. For our forefathers who 
sojourned in Egypt were truly shepherds, but not lepers. For when they came into 
the land called Jerusalem, where also they afterwards abode, it is well known 
how their priests, in pursuance of the appointment of God, continued in the 
temple, and there healed every disease, so that they cured lepers and every 
unsoundness. The temple was built by Solomon the king' of Judaea. And from 
Manetho's own statement his chronological error is manifest. (As it is also in 
respect of the king who expelled them, Pharaoh by name. For he no longer ruled 
them. For having pursued the Hebrews, he and his army were engulphed in the Red 
Sea. And he is in error still further, in saying that the shepherds made war 
against the Egyptians.) For they went out of Egypt, and thenceforth dwelt in the 
country now called Judaea, 313 years before Danaus came to Argos. And that most 
people consider him older than any other of the Greeks is manifest. So that 
Manetho has unwillingly declared to us, by his own writings, two particulars of 
the truth: first, avowing that they were shepherds; secondly, saying that they 
went out of the land of Egypt. So that even from these writings Moses and his 
followers are proved to be 900 or even 100 years prior to the Trojan war. 
CHAP. XXII.--ANTIQUITY OF THE TEMPLE. 
Then concerning the building of the temple in Judaea, which Solomon the king 
built 566 years after the exodus of the Jews from Egypt, there is among the 
Tyrians a record how the temple was built; and in their archives writings have 
been preserved, in which the temple is proved to have existed 143 years 8 months 
before the Tyrians founded Carthage (and this record was made by Hiram (that is 
the name of the king of the Tyrians), the son of Abimalus, on account of the 
hereditary friendship which existed between Hiram and Solomon, and at the same 
time on account of the surpassing wisdom possessed by Solomon. For they 
continually engaged with each other in discussing difficult problems. And proof 
of this exists in their correspondence, which to this day is preserved among the 
Tyrians, and the writings that passed between them); as Menander the Ephesian, 
while narrating the history of the Tyrian kingdom, records, speaking thus: "For 
when Abimalus the king of the Tyrians died, his son Hiram succeeded to the 
kingdom. He lived 53 years. And Bazorus succeeded him, who lived 43, and reigned 
17 years. And after him followed Methuastartus, who lived 54 years, and reigned 
12. And after him succeeded his brother Atharymus, who lived 58 years, and 
reigned 9. He was slain by his brother of the name of Helles, who lived 50 
years, and reigned 8 months. He was killed by Juthobalus, priest of Astarte, who 
lived 40 years, and reigned 12. He was succeeded by his son Bazorus, who lived 
45 years, and reigned 7. And to him his son Metten succeeded, who lived 32 
years, and reigned 29. Pygmalion, son of Pygmalius succeeded him, who lived 56 
years, and reigned 7. And in the 7th year of his reign, his sister, fleeing to 
Libya, built the city which to this day is called Carthage." The whole period, 
therefore, from the reign of Hiram to the founding of Carthage, amounts to 155 
years and 8 months. And in the 12th year of the reign of Hiram the temple in 
Jerusalem was built. So that the entire time from the building of the temple to 
the founding of Carthage was 143 years and 8 months. 
CHAP. XXIII.--PROPHETS MORE ANCIENT THAN GREEK WRITERS. 
So then let what has been said suffice for the testimony of the Phoenicians 
and Egyptians, and for the account of our chronology given by the writers 
Manetho the Egyptian, and Menander the Ephesian, and also Josephus, who wrote 
the Jewish war, which they waged with the Romans. For from these very old 
records it is proved that the writings of the rest are more recent than the 
writings given to us through Moses, yes, and than the subsequent prophets. For 
the last of the prophets, who was called Zechariah, was contemporary with the 
reign of Darius. But even the lawgivers themselves are all found to have 
legislated subsequently to that period. For if one were to mention Solon the 
Athenian, he lived in the days of the kings Cyrus and Darius, in the time of the 
prophet Zechariah first mentioned, who was by many years the last of the 
prophets. Or if you mention the lawgivers Lycurgus, or Draco, or Minos, Josephus 
tells us in his writings that the sacred books take precedence of them in 
antiquity, since even before the reign of Jupiter over the Cretans, and before 
the Trojan war, the writings of the divine law which has been given to us 
through Moses were in existence. And that we may give a more accurate exhibition 
of eras and dates, we will, God helping us, now give an account not only of the 
dates after the deluge, but also of those before it, so as to reckon the whole 
number of all the years, as far as possible; tracing up to the very beginning of 
the creation of the world, which Moses the servant of God recorded through the 
Holy Spirit. For having first spoken of what concerned the creation and genesis 
of the world, and of the first man, and all that happened after in the order of 
events, he signified also the years that elapsed before the deluge. And I pray 
for favour from the only God, that I may accurately speak the whole truth 
according to His will, that you and every one who reads this work may be guided 
by His truth and favour. I will then begin first with the recorded genealogies, 
and I begin my narration with the first man. 
CHAP. XXIV.--CHRONOLOGY FROM ADAM. 
Adam lived till he begat a son, 230 years. And his son Seth, 205. And his son 
Enos, 190. And his son Cainan, 170. And his son Mahaleel, 165. And his son 
Jared, 162. And his son Enoch, 165. And his son Methuselah, 167. And his son 
Lamech, 188. And Lamech's son was Noah, of whom we have spoken above, who begat 
Shem when 500 years old. During Noah's life, in his 600th year, the flood came. 
The total number of years, therefore, till the flood, was 2242. 
And immediately after the flood, Shem, who was 100 years old, begat Arphaxad. 
And Arphaxad, when 135 years old, begat Salah. And Salah begat a son when 130. 
And his son Eber, when 134. And from him the Hebrews name their race. And his 
son Phaleg begat a son when 130. And his son Reu, when 132 And his son Serug, 
when 130. And his son Nahor, when 75. And his son Terah, when 70. And his son 
Abraham, our patriarch, begat Isaac when he was 100 years old. Until Abraham, 
therefore, there are 3278 years. The fore-mentioned Isaac lived until he begat a 
son, 60 years, and begat Jacob. Jacob, till the migration into Egypt, of which 
we have spoken above, lived 130 years. And the sojourning of the Hebrews in 
Egypt lasted 430 years; and after their departure from the land of Egypt they 
spent 40 years in the wilderness, as it is called. All these years, therefore, 
amount to 3,938. And at that time, Moses having died, Jesus the sun of Nun 
succeeded to his rule, and governed them 27 years. And after Jesus, when the 
people had transgressed the commandments of God, they served the king of 
Mesopotamia, by name Chusarathon, 8 years. Then, on the repentance of the 
people, they had judges: Gothonoel, 40 years; Eglon, 18 years; Aoth, 8 years. 
Then having sinned, they were subdued by strangers for 20 years. Then Deborah 
judged them 40 years. Then they served the Midianites 7 years. Then Gideon 
judged them 40 years; Abimelech, 3 years; Thola, 22 years; Jair, 22 years. Then 
the Philistines and Ammonites ruled them 18 years. After that Jephthah judged 
them 6 years; Esbon, 7 years; Ailon, 10 years; Abdon, 8 years. Then strangers 
ruled them 40 years. Then Samson judged them 20 years. Then there was peace 
among them for 40 years. Then Samera judged them one year; Eli, 20 years; 
Samuel, 12 years. 
CHAP. XXV.--FROM SAUL TO THE CAPTIVITY. 
And after the judges they had kings, the first named Saul, who reigned 20 
years; then David, our forefather, who reigned 40 years. Accordingly, there are 
to the reign of David [from Isaac] 496 years. And after these kings Solomon 
reigned, who also, by the will of God, was the first to build the temple in 
Jerusalem; he reigned 40 years. And after him Rehoboam, 17 years; and after him 
Abias, 7 years; and after him Asa, 41 years; and after him Jehoshaphat, 25 
years; and after him Joram, 8 years; and after him Ahaziah, 1 year; and after 
him Athaliah, 6 years; and after her Josiah, 40 years; and after him Amaziah, 39 
years; and after him Uzziah, 52 years; and after him Jotham, 16 years; and after 
him Ahaz, 17 years; and after him Hezekiah, 29 years; and after him Manasseh, 55 
years; and after him Amon, 2 years; and after him Josiah, 31 years; and after 
him Jehoahaz, 3 months; and after him Jehoiakim, 11 years. Then another 
Jehoiakim, 3 months 10 days; and after him Zedekiah, 11 years. And after these 
kings, the people, continuing in their sins, and not repenting, the king of 
Babylon, named Nebuchadnezzar, came up into Judaea, according to the prophecy of 
Jeremiah. He transferred the people of the Jews to Babylon, and destroyed the 
temple which Solomon had built. And in the Babylonian banishment the people 
passed 70 years. Until the sojourning in the land of Babylon, there are 
therefore, in all, 4954 years 6 months and 10 days. And according as God had, by 
the prophet Jeremiah, foretold that the people should be led captive to Babylon, 
in like manner He signified beforehand that they should also return into their 
own land after 70 years. These 70 years then being accomplished, Cyrus becomes 
king of the Persians, who, according to the prophecy of Jeremiah, issued a 
decree in the second year of his reign, enjoining by his edict that all Jews who 
were in his kingdom should return to their own country, and rebuild their temple 
to God, which the fore-mentioned king of Babylon had demolished. Moreover, 
Cyrus, in compliance with the instructions of God, gave orders to his own 
bodyguards, Sabessar and Mithridates, that the vessels which had been taken out 
of the temple of Judaea by Nebuchadnezzar should be restored, and placed again 
in the temple. In the second year, therefore, of Darius are fulfilled the 70 
years which were foretold by Jeremiah. 
CHAP. XXVI.--CONTRAST BETWEEN HEBREW AND GREEK WRITINGS. 
Hence one can see how our sacred writings are shown to be more ancient and 
true than those of the Greeks and Egyptians, or any other historians. For 
Herodotus and Thucydides, as also Xenophon, and most other historians, began 
their relations from about the reign of Cyrus and Darius, not being able to 
speak with accuracy of prior and ancient times. For what great matters did they 
disclose if they spoke of Darius and Cyrus, barbarian kings, or of the Greeks 
Zopyrus and Hippias, or of the wars of the Athenians and Lacedaemonians, or the 
deeds of Xerxes or of Pausanias, who ran the risk of starving to death in the 
temple of Minerva, or the history of Themistocles and the Peloponnesian war, or 
of Alcibiades and Thrasybulus? For my purpose is not to furnish mere matter of 
much talk, but to throw light upon the number of years from the foundation of 
the world, and to condemn the empty labour and trifling of these authors, 
because there have neither been twenty thousand times ten thousand years from 
the flood to the present time, as Plato said, affirming that there had been so 
many years; nor yet 15 times 10,375 years, as we have already mentioned 
Apollonius the Egyptian gave out; nor is the world uncreated, nor is there a 
spontaneous production of all things, as Pythagoras and the rest dreamed; but, 
being indeed created, it is also governed by the providence of God, who made all 
things; and the whole course of time and the years are made plain to those who 
wish to obey the truth. Lest, then, I seem to have made things plain up to the 
time of Cyrus, and to neglect the subsequent periods, as if through inability to 
exhibit them, I will endeavour, by God's help, to give an account, according to 
my ability, of the course of the subsequent times. 
CHAP. XXVII.--ROMAN CHRONOLOGY TO THE DEATH OF M. AURELIUS. 
When Cyrus, then, had reigned twenty-nine years, and had been slain by 
Tomyris in the country of the Massagetae, this being in the 62d Olympiad, then 
the Romans began to increase in power, God strengthening them, Rome having been 
rounded by Romulus, the reputed child of Mars and Ilia, in the 7th Olympiad, on 
the 21st day of April, the year being then reckoned as consisting of ten months. 
Cyrus, then, having died, as we have already said, in the 62d Olympiad, this 
date falls 220 A.V.C., in which year also Tarquinius, surnamed Superbus, reigned 
over the Romans, who was the first who banished Romans and corrupted the youth, 
and made eunuchs of the citizens, and, moreover, first defiled virgins, and then 
gave them in marriage. On this account he was fitly called Superbus in the Roman 
language, and that is translated "the Proud." For he first decreed that those 
who saluted him should have their salute acknowledged by some one else. He 
reigned twenty-five years. After him yearly consuls were introduced, tribunes 
also and ediles for 453 years, whose names we consider it long and superfluous 
to recount. For if any one is anxious to learn them, he will ascertain them from 
the tables which Chryserus the nomenclator compiled: he was a freedman of 
Aurelius Verus, who composed a very lucid record of all things, both names and 
dates, from the rounding of Rome to the death of his own patron, the Emperor 
Verus. The annual magistrates ruled the Romans, as we say, for 453 years. 
Afterwards those who are called emperors began in this order: first, Caius 
Julius, who reigned 3 years 4 months 6 days; then Augustus, 56 years 4 months 1 
day; Tiberius, 22 years; then another Caius, 3 years 8 months 7 days; Claudius, 
23 years 8 months 24 days; Nero, 13 years 6 months 58 days; Galba, 2 years 7 
months 6 days; Otho, 3 months 5 days; Vitellius, 6 months 52 days; Vespasian, 9 
years 11 months 55 days; Titus, 2 years 22 days; Domitian, 15 years 5 months 6 
days; Nerva, 1 year 4 months 10 days; Trajan, 19 years 6 months 16 days; Adrian, 
20 years 10 months 28 days; Antoninus, 22 years 7 months 6 days; Verus, 19 years 
10 days. The time therefore of the Caesars to the death of the Emperor Verus is 
237 years 5 days. From the death of Cyrus, therefore, and the reign of 
Tarquinius Superbus, to the death of the Emperor Verus, the whole time amounts 
to 744 years. 
CHAP. XXVIII.--LEADING CHRONOLOGICAL EPOCHS. 
And from the foundation of the world the whole time is thus traced, so far as 
its main epochs are concerned. From the creation of the world to the deluge were 
2242 years. And from the deluge to the time when Abraham our forefather begat a 
son, 1036 years. And from Isaac, Abraham's son, to the time when the people 
dwelt with Moses in the desert, 660 years. And from the death of Moses and the 
rule of Joshua the son of Nun, to the death of the patriarch David, 498 years. 
And from the death of David and the reign of Solomon to the sojourning of the 
people in the land of Babylon, 518 years 6 months 10 days. And from the 
government of Cyrus to the death of the Emperor Aurelius Verus, 744 years. All 
the years from the creation of the world amount to a total of 5698 years, and 
the odd months and days. 
CHAP. XXIX.--ANTIQUITY OF CHRISTIANITY. 
These periods, then, and all the above-mentioned facts, being viewed 
collectively, one can see the antiquity of the prophetical writings and the 
divinity of our doctrine, that the doctrine is not recent, nor our tenets 
mythical and false, as some think; but very ancient and true. For Thallus 
mentioned Belus, king of the Assyrians and Saturn, son of Titan, alleging that 
Belus with the Titans made war against Jupiter and the so-called gods in his 
alliance; and on this occasion he says that Gyges, being defeated, fled to 
Tartessus. At that time Gyges ruled over that country, which then was called 
Acte, but now is named Attica. And whence the other countries and cities derived 
their names, we think it unnecessary to recount, especially to you who are 
acquainted with history. That Moses, and not he only, but also most of the 
prophets who followed him, is proved to be older than all writers, and than 
Saturn and Belus and the Trojan war, is manifest. For according to the history 
of Thallus, Belus is found to be 322 years prior to the Trojan war. But we have 
shown above that Moses lived somewhere about 900 or 1000 years before the sack 
of Troy. And as Saturn and Belus flourished at the same time, most people do not 
know which is Saturn and which is Belus. Some worship Saturn, and call him Bel 
or Bal, especially the inhabitants of the eastern countries, for they do not 
know who either Saturn or Belus is. And among the Romans he is called Saturn, 
for neither do they know which of the two is more ancient--Saturn or Bel. So far 
as regards the commencement of the Olympiads, they say that the observance dates 
from Iphitus, but according to others from Linus, who is also called Ilius. The 
order which the whole number of years and Olympiads holds, we have shown above. 
I think I have now, according to my ability, accurately discoursed both of the 
godlessness of your practices, and of the whole number of the epochs of history. 
For if even a chronological error has been committed by us, of, e.g., 50 or 100, 
or even 200 years, yet not of thousands and tens of thousands, as Plato and 
Apollonius and other mendacious authors have hitherto written. And perhaps our 
knowledge of the whole number of the years is not quite accurate, because the 
odd months and days are not set down in the sacred books. But so far as regards 
the periods we speak of, we are corroborated by Berosus, the Chaldaean 
philosopher, who made the Greeks acquainted with the Chaldaean literature, and 
uttered some things concerning the deluge, and many other points of history, in 
agreement with Moses; and with the prophets Jeremiah and Daniel also, he spoke 
in a measure of agreement. For he mentioned what happened to the Jews under the 
king of the Babylonians, whom he calls Abobassor, and who is called by the 
Hebrews Nebuchadnezzar. And he also spoke of the temple of Jerusalem; how it was 
desolated by the king of the Chaldaeans, and that the foundations of the temple 
having been laid the second year of the reign of Cyrus, the temple was completed 
in the second year of the reign of Darius. 
CHAP. XXX.--WHY THE GREEKS DID NOT MENTION OUR HISTORIES. 
But the Greeks make no mention of the histories which give the truth first, 
because they themselves only recently became partakers of the knowledge of 
letters; and they themselves own it, alleging that letters were invented, some 
say among the Chaldaeans, and others with the Egyptians, and others again say 
that they are derived from the Phoenicians. And secondly, because they sinned, 
and still sin, in not making mention of God, but of vain and useless matters. 
For thus they most heartily celebrate Homer and Hesiod, and the rest of the 
poets, but the glory of the incorruptible and only God they not only omit to 
mention, but blaspheme; yes, and they persecuted, and do daily persecute, those 
who worship Him. And not only so, but they even bestow prizes and honours on 
those who in harmonious language insult God; but of those who are zealous in the 
pursuit of virtue and practise a holy life, some they stoned, some they put to 
death, and up to the present time they subject them to savage tortures. 
Wherefore such men have necessarily lost the wisdom of God, and have not found 
the truth. 
If you please, then, study these things carefully, that you may have a 
compendium and pledge of the truth. 

