
Theodotus












Excerpts of Theodotus Selections from the prophetic scriptures
1. Those around Sedrach, Misak, and Abednago in the furnace of 
    fire say as they praise God, "Bless, ye heavens, the Lord; praise and exalt 
    Him for ever;" then, "Bless, ye angels, the Lord;" then, "Bless the Lord, 
    all ye waters that are above heaven." So the Scriptures assign the heavens 
    and the waters to the class of pure powers as is shown in Genesis. Suitably, 
    then, inasmuch as "power" is used with a variety of meaning, Daniel adds, 
    "Let every power bless the Lord;" then, further, "Bless the Lord, sun and 
    moon;" and, "Bless the Lord, ye stars of heaven. Bless the Lord, all ye that 
    worship Him; praise and confess the God of gods, for His mercy is for ever." 
    It is written in Daniel, on the occasion of the three children praising in 
    the furnace. 
    2. "Blessed art Thou, who lookest on the abysses as Thou sittest 
    on the cherubim," says Daniel, in agreement with Enoch, who said, "And I saw 
    all sorts of matter." For the abyss, which is in its essence boundless, is 
    bounded by the power of God. These material essences then, from which the 
    separate genera and their species are produced, are called abysses; since 
    you would not call the water alone the abyss, although matter is 
    allegorically called water, the abyss. 
    3. "In the beginning God made the heaven and the earth," both 
    terrestrial and celestial things. And that this is true, the Lord said to 
    Osee, "Go, take to thyself a wife of fornication, and children of 
    fornication: because the land committing fornication, shall commit 
    fornication, departing from the Lord." For it is not the element of earth 
    that he speaks of, but those that dwell in the element, those who have an 
    earthly disposition. 
    4. And that the Son is the beginning or head, Hosea teaches 
    clearly: "And it shall be, that in the place in which it was said to them, 
    Ye are not my people, they shall be called the children of the living God: 
    and the children of Judah and the children of Israel shall be gathered to 
    the same place, and they shall place over them one head, and they shall come 
    up out of the land; for great is the day of Jezreel." For whom one believes, 
    him He chooses. But one believes the Son, who is the head; wherefore also he 
    said in addition: "But I will have mercy on the sons of Judah, and will save 
    them by the Lord their God." Now the Saviour who saves is the Son of God. He 
    is then the head. 
    5. The Spirit by Osee says, "I am your Instructor;" "Blow ye the 
    trumpet upon the hills of the Lord; sound upon the high places." And is not 
    baptism itself, which is the sign of regeneration, an escape from matter, by 
    the teaching of the Saviour, a great impetuous stream, ever rushing on and 
    bearing us along? The Lord accordingly, leading us out of disorder, 
    illumines us by bringing us into the light, which is shadow-less and is 
    material no longer. 
    6. This river and sea of matter two prophets cut asunder and 
    divided by the power of the Lord, the matter being bounded, through both 
    divisions of the water. Famous leaders both, by whom the signs were 
    believed, they complied with the will of God, so that the righteous man may 
    proceed from matter, having journeyed through it first. On the one of these 
    commanders also was imposed the name of our Saviour. 
    7. Now, regeneration is by water and spirit, as was all creation: 
    "For the Spirit of God moved on the abyss." And for this reason the Saviour 
    was baptized, though not Himself needing to be so, in order that He might 
    consecrate the whole water for those who were being regenerated. Thus it is 
    not the body only, but the soul, that we cleanse. It is accordingly a sign 
    of the sanctifying of our invisible part, and of the straining off from the 
    new and spiritual creation of the unclean spirits that have got mixed up 
    with the soul. 
    8. "The water above the heaven." Since baptism is performed by 
    water and the Spirit as a protection against the twofold fire,--that which 
    lays hold of what is visible, and that which lays hold of what is invisible; 
    and of necessity, there being an immaterial element of water and a material, 
    is it a protection against the twofold fire. And the earthly water cleanses 
    the body; but the heavenly water, by reason of its being immaterial and 
    invisible, is an emblem of the Holy Spirit, who is the purifier of what is 
    invisible, as the water of the Spirit, as the other of the body. 
    9. God, out of goodness, hath mingled fear with goodness. For what 
    is beneficial for each one, that He also supplies, as a physician to a sick 
    man, as a father to his insubordinate child: "For he that spareth his rod 
    hateth his son." And the Lord and His apostles walked in the midst of fear 
    and labours. When, then, the affliction is sent in the person of a righteous 
    man, it is either from the Lord rebuking him for a sin committed before, or 
    guarding him on account of the future, or not preventing by the exercise of 
    His power an assault from without, -- for some good end to him and to those 
    near, for the sake of example. 
    10. Now those that dwell in a corrupt body, like those who sail in 
    an old ship, do not lie on their back, but are ever praying, stretching 
    their hands to God. 
    11. The ancients were exceedingly distressed, unless they had 
    always some suffering in the body. For they were afraid, that if they 
    received not in this world the punishment of the sins which, in numbers 
    through ignorance, accompany those that are in the flesh, they would in the 
    other world suffer the penalty all at once. So that they preferred curative 
    treatment here. What is to be dreaded is, then, not external disease, but 
    sins, for which disease comes, and disease of the soul, not of the body: 
    "For all flesh is grass," and corporeal and external good things are 
    temporary; "but the things which are unseen are eternal." 
    12. As to knowledge, some elements of it we already possess; 
    others, by what we do possess, we firmly hope to attain. For neither have we 
    attained all, nor do we lack all. But we have received, as it were, an 
    earnest of the eternal blessings, and of the ancestral riches. The 
    provisions for the Lord's way are the Lord's beatitudes. For He said: 
    "Seek," and anxiously seek, "the kingdom of God, and all these things shall 
    be added to you: for the Father knoweth what things ye have need of." Thus 
    He limits not only our occupations, but our cares. For He says: "Ye cannot, 
    by taking thought, add aught to your stature." For God knows well what it is 
    good for us to have and what to want. He wishes, therefore, that we, 
    emptying ourselves of worldly cares, should be filled with that which is 
    directed towards God. "For we groan, desiring to be clothed upon with that 
    which is incorruptible, before putting off corruption." For when faith is 
    shed abroad, unbelief is nonplussed. Similarly also with knowledge and 
    righteousness. We must therefore not only empty the soul, but fill it with 
    God. For no longer is there evil in it, since that has been made to cease; 
    nor yet is there good, since it has not yet received good. But what is 
    neither good nor evil is nothing. "For to the swept and empty house return," 
    if none of the blessings of salvation has been put in, the unclean spirit 
    that dwelt there before, taking with him seven other unclean spirits. 
    Wherefore, after emptying the soul of what is evil, we must fill with the 
    good God that which is His chosen dwelling-place. For when the empty rooms 
    are filled, then follows the seal, that the sanctuary may be guarded for 
    God. 
    13. "By two and three witnesses every word is established." By 
    Father, and Son, and Holy Spirit, by whose witness and help the prescribed 
    commandments ought to be kept. 
    14. Fasting, according to the signification of the word, is 
    abstinence from food. Now food makes us neither more righteous nor less. But 
    mystically it shows that, as life is maintained in individuals by 
    sustenance, and want of sustenance is the token of death; so also ought we 
    to fast from worldly things, that we may die to the world, and after that, 
    by partaking of divine sustenance, live to God. Especially does fasting 
    empty the soul of matter, and make it, along with the body, pure and light 
    for the divine words. Worldly food is, then, the former life and sins; but 
    the divine food is faith, hope, love, patience, knowledge, peace, 
    temperance. For "blessed are they that hunger and thirst after" God's 
    "righteousness; for they shall be filled." The soul, but not the body, it is 
    which is susceptible of this craving. 
    15. The Saviour showed to the believing apostles prayer to be 
    stronger than faith in the case of a demoniac, whom they could not cleanse, 
    when He said, Such things are accomplished by prayer. He who has believed 
    has obtained forgiveness of sins from the Lord; but he who has attained 
    knowledge, inasmuch as he no longer sins, obtains from himself the 
    forgiveness of the rest. 
    16. For as cures, and prophecies, and signs are performed by the 
    agency of men, God working in them, so also is Gnostic teaching. For God 
    shows His power through men. And the prophecy rightly says, "I will send to 
    them a man who will save them." Accordingly He sends forth at one thee 
    prophets, at another apostles, to be saviours of men. Thus God does good by 
    the agency of men. For it is not that God can do some things, and cannot do 
    others: He is never powerless in anything. No more are some things done 
    with, and some things against His will; and some things by Him, and some 
    things by another. But He even brought us into being by means of men, and 
    trained us by means of men. 
    17. God made us, having previously no existence. For if we had a 
    previous existence, we must have known where we were, and how and why we 
    came hither. But if we had no pre-existence, then God is the sole author of 
    our creation. As, then, He made us who had no existence; so also, now that 
    we are made, He saves us by His own grace, if we show ourselves worthy and 
    susceptible; if not, He will let us pass to our proper end. For He is Lord 
    both of the living and the dead. 
    18. But see the power of God, not only in the case of men, in 
    bringing to existence out of non-existence, and making them when brought 
    into being grow up according to the progress of the thee of life, but also 
    in saving those who believe, in a way suitable to each individual. And now 
    He changes both hours, and times, and fruits, and elements. For this is the 
    one God, who has measured both the beginning and the end of events suitably 
    to each one. 
    19. Advancing from faith and fear to knowledge, man knows how to 
    say Lord, Lord; but not as His slave, he has learned to say, Our Father. 
    Having set free the spirit of bondage, which produces fear, and advanced by 
    love to adoption, he now reverences from love Him whom he feared before. For 
    he no longer abstains from what he ought to abstain from out of fear, but 
    out of love clings to the commandments. "The Spirit itself," it is said, 
    "beareth witness when we cry, Abba, Father." 
    20. Now the Lord with His precious blood redeems us, freeing us 
    from our old bitter masters, that is, our sins, on account of which the 
    spiritual powers of wickedness ruled over us. Accordingly He leads us into 
    the liberty of the Father, -- sons that are co-heirs and friends. "For," 
    says the Lord, "they that do the will of my Father are my brethren and 
    fellow-heirs." "Call no man, therefore, father to yourselves on earth." For 
    it is masters that are on earth. But in heaven is the Father, of whom is the 
    whole family, both in heaven and on earth. For love rules willing hearts, 
    but fear the unwilling. One kind of fear is base; but the other, leading us 
    as a pedagogue to good, brings us to Christ, and is saving. 
    21. Now if one has a conception of God, it by no means corresponds 
    with His worthiness. For what can the worthiness of God be? But let him, as 
    far as is possible, conceive of a great and incomprehensible and most 
    beautiful light; inaccessible, comprehending all good power, all comely 
    virtue; caring for all, compassionate, passionless, good; knowing all 
    things, foreknowing all things, pure, sweet, shining, stainless. 
    22. Since the movement of the soul is self-originated, the grace 
    of God demands from it what the soul possesses, willingness as its 
    contribution to salvation. For the soul wishes to be its own good; which the 
    Lord, however, gives it. For it is not devoid of sensation so as to be 
    carried along like a body. Having is the result of taking, and taking of 
    willing and desiring; and keeping hold of what one has received, of the 
    exercise of care and of ability. Wherefore God has endowed the soul with 
    free choice, that He may show it its duty, and that it choosing, may receive 
    and retain. 
    23. As through the body the Lord spake and healed, so also 
    formerly by the prophets, and now by the apostles and teachers. For the 
    Church is the minister of the Lord's power. Thence He then assumed humanity, 
    that by it He might minister to the Father's will. And at all times, the God 
    who loves humanity invests Himself with man for the salvation of men, -- in 
    former tithes with the prophets, and now with the Church. For it is fitting 
    that like should minister to like, in order to a like salvation. 
    24. For we are of the earth. . . . Caesar is the prince, for the 
    thee being, whose earthly image is the old man, to which he has returned. To 
    him, then, we are to render the earthly things, which we bore in the image 
    of the earthly, and the things of God to God. For each one of the passions 
    is on us as a letter, and stamp, and sign. Now the Lord marks us with 
    another stamp, and with other names and letters, faith instead of unbelief, 
    and so forth. Thus we are translated from what is material to what is 
    spiritual, "having borne the image of the heavenly." 
    25. John says: "I indeed baptize you with water, but there cometh 
    after me He that baptizeth with the Spirit and fire." But He baptized no one 
    with fire. But some, as Heraclius says, marked with fire the ears of those 
    who were sealed; understanding so the apostolic saying, "For His fan is in 
    His hand, to purge His floor: and He will gather the wheat into the garner; 
    but the chaff He will burn with fire un-quenchable." There is joined, then, 
    the expression "by fire" to that" by the Spirit;" since He separates the 
    wheat from the chaff, that is, from the material husk, by the Spirit; and 
    the chaff is separated, being fanned by the wind : so also the Spirit 
    possesses a power of separating material forces. Since, then, some things 
    are produced from what is unproduced and indestructible, -that is, the germs 
    of life,--the wheat also is stored, and the material part, as long as it is 
    conjoined with the superior part, remains; when separated from it, it is 
    destroyed; for it had its existence in another thing. This separating 
    element, then, is the Spirit, and the destroying element is the fire: and 
    material fire is to be understood. But since that which is saved is like 
    wheat, and that which grows in the soul like chaff, and the one is 
    incorporeal, and that which is separated is material; to the incorporeal He 
    opposes spirit, which is rarefied and pure -almost more so than mind; and to 
    the material He opposes fire, not as being evil or bad, but as strong and 
    capable of cleansing away evil. For fire is conceived as a good force and 
    powerful, destructive of what is baser, and conservative of what is better. 
    Wherefore this fire is by the prophets called wise. 
    26. Thus also, then, when God is called "a consuming fire," it is 
    because a name and sign, not of wickedness, but of power, is to be selected. 
    For as fire is the most potent of the elements, and masters all things; so 
    also God is all-powerful and almighty, who is able to hold, to create, to 
    make, to nourish, to make grow, to save, having power of body and soul. As, 
    then, fire is superior to the elements, so is the Almighty Ruler to gods, 
    and powers, and principalities. The power of fire is twofold: one power 
    con-duces to the production and maturing of fruits and of animals, of which 
    the sun is the image; and the other to consumption and destruction, as 
    terrestrial fire. When, then, God is called a consuming fire, He is called a 
    mighty and resist-less power, to which nothing is impossible, but which is 
    able to destroy. 
    Respecting such a power, also, the Saviour says, "I came to send fire 
    upon the earth," indicating a power to purify what is holy, but destructive, 
    as they say, of what is material; and, as we should say, disciplinary. Now 
    fear pertains to fire, and diffusion to light. 
    27. Now the more ancient men did not write, as they neither wished 
    to encroach on the thee devoted to attention bestowed on what they handed 
    down, in the way of teaching, by the additional attention bestowed on 
    writing, nor spent the thee for considering what was to be said on writing. 
    And, perhaps convinced that the function of composition and the department 
    of teaching did not belong to the same cast of mind, they gave way to those 
    who had a natural turn for it. For in the case of a speaker, the stream of 
    speech flows unchecked and impetuous, and you may catch it up hastily. But 
    that which is always tested by readers, meeting with strict examination, is 
    thought worthy of the utmost pains, and is, so to speak, the written 
    confirmation of oral instruction, and of the voice so wafted along to 
    posterity by written composition. For that which was committed in trust to 
    the elders, speaking in writing, uses the writer's help to hand itself down 
    to those who are to read it. As, then, the magnet, repelling other matter, 
    attracts iron alone by reason of affinity; so also books, though many read 
    them, attract those alone who are capable of comprehending them. For the 
    word of truth is to some "foolishness," and to others a "stumbling-block;" 
    but to a few "wisdom." So also is the power of God found to be. But far from 
    the Gnostic be envy. For it is for this reason also that he asks whether it 
    be worse to give to the unworthy, or not commit to the worthy; and runs the 
    risk, from his abundant love of communicating, not only to every one who is 
    qualified, but sometimes also to one unworthy, who asks importunately; not 
    on account of his entreaty (for he loves not glory), but on account of the 
    persistency of the petitioner who bends his mind towards faith with copious 
    entreaty. 
    28. There are those calling themselves Gnostics who are envious of 
    those in their own house more than strangers. And, as the sea is open to 
    all, but one swims, another sails, and a third catches fish; and as the land 
    is common, but one walks, another ploughs, another hunts, --somebody else 
    searches the mines, and another builds a house: so also, when the Scripture 
    is read, one is helped to faith, another to morality, and a third is freed 
    from superstition by the knowledge of things. The athlete, who knows the 
    Olympic stadium, strips for training, contends, and becomes victor, tripping 
    up his antagonists who contend against his scientific method, and fighting 
    out the contest. For scientific knowledge is necessary both for the training 
    of the soul and for gravity of conduct; making the faithful more active and 
    keen observers of things. For as there is no believing without elementary 
    instruction, so neither is there comprehension without science. 
    29. For what is useful and necessary to salvation, such as the 
    knowledge of the Father, and Son, and Holy Spirit, and also of our own soul, 
    are wholly requisite; and it is at once beneficial and necessary to attain 
    to the scientific account of them. And to those who have assumed the lead in 
    doing good, lunch experience is advantageous; so that none of the things 
    which appear to be known necessarily and eruditely by others may escape 
    their notice. The exposition, too, of heterodox teaching affords another 
    exercise of the inquiring soul, and keeps the disciple froth being seduced 
    from the truth, by his having already had practice beforehand in sounding 
    all round on warlike instruments of music. 
    30. The life of the Gnostic rule, (as they say that Crete was 
    barren of deadly animals,) is pure from every evil deed, and thought, and 
    word; not only hating no one, but beyond envy and hatred, and all 
    evil-speaking and slander. 
    31. In length of days, it is not on account of his having lived 
    long that the man is to be regarded happy, to whose lot it has also fallen, 
    through his having lived, to be worthy of living for ever. He has pained no 
    one, except in instructing by the word the wounded in heart, as it were by a 
    salutary honey, which is at once sweet and pungent. So that, above all, the 
    Gnostic preserves the decorous along with that which is in accordance with 
    reason. For passion being cut away and stript off from the whole soul, he 
    henceforth consorts and lives with what is noblest, which has now become 
    pure, and emancipated to adoption. 
    32. Pythagoras thought that he who gave things their names, ought 
    to be regarded not only the most intelligent, but the oldest of the wise 
    men. We must, then, search the Scriptures accurately, since they are 
    admitted to be expressed in parables, and from the names hunt out the 
    thoughts which the Holy Spirit, pro-pounding respecting things, teaches by 
    imprinting His mind, so to speak, on the expressions; that the names used 
    with various meanings, being made the subject of accurate investigation, may 
    be explained, and that that which is hidden trader many integuments may, 
    being handled and learned, come to light and gleam forth. For so also lead 
    turns white as you rub it; white lead being produced from black. So also 
    scientific knowledge (gnosis), shedding its light and brightness on things, 
    shows itself to be in truth the divine wisdom, the pure light, which 
    illumines the men whose eyeball is clear, unto the sure vision and 
    comprehension of truth. 
    33. Lighting, then, our torch at the source of that light, by the 
    passionate desire which has it for its object, and striving as much as 
    possible to be assimilated to it, we become men full of light, Israelites 
    indeed. For He called those friends and brethren who by desire and pursuit 
    aimed after likeness to the Divinity. 
    34. Pure places and meadows have received voices and visions of 
    holy phantasms. But every man who has been perfectly purified, shall be 
    thought worthy of divine teaching and of power. 
    35. Now I know that the mysteries of science (gnosis) are a 
    laughing-stock to many, especially when not patched up with sophistical 
    figurative language. And the few are at first startled at them; as when 
    light is suddenly brought into a convivial party in the dark. Subsequently, 
    on getting used and accustomed, and trained to reasoning, as if gladdened 
    and exulting for delight, they praise the Lord. . . . For as pleasure has 
    for its essence release from pain; so also has knowledge the removal of 
    ignorance. For as those that are most asleep think they are most awake, 
    being under the power of dream-visions very vivid and fixed; so those that 
    are most ignorant think that they know most. But blessed are they who rouse 
    themselves from this sleep and derangement, and raise their eyes to the 
    light and the truth. 
    36. It is, therefore, equally requisite for him who wishes to have 
    a pupil who is docile, and has blended faith with aspiration, to exercise 
    himself and constantly to study by himself, investigating the truth of his 
    speculations; and when he thinks himself right, to descend to questions 
    regarding things contiguous. For the young birds make attempts to fly in the 
    nest, exercising their wings. 
    37. For Gnostic virtue everywhere makes man good, and meek, and 
    harmless, and painless, and blessed, and ready to associate in the best way 
    with all that is divine, in the best way with men, at once a contemplative 
    and active divine image, and turns him into a lover of what is good by love. 
    For what is good, as there it is contemplated and comprehended by wisdom, is 
    here by self-control and righteousness carried into effect through faith: 
    practising in the flesh an angelic ministry; hallowing the soul in the body, 
    as in a place clear and stainless. 
    38. Against Tatian, who says that the words, "Let there be light," 
    are supplicatory. If, then, He is supplicating the supreme God, how does He 
    say, "I am God, and beside me there is none else?" We have said that there 
    are punishments for blasphemies, for nonsense. for outrageous expressions; 
    which are punished and chastised by reason. 
    39. And he said, too, that on account of their hair and finery, 
    women are punished by the Power that is set over these matters; which also 
    gave to Samson strength in his hair; which punishes the women who allure to 
    fornication through the adornment of their hair. 
    40. As by the effluence of good, people are made good; in like 
    manner are they made bad. Good is the judgment of God, and the 
    discrimination of the believing from the unbelieving, and the judgment 
    beforehand, so as not to fall into greater judgment -- this judgment being 
    correction. 
    41. Scripture says that infants which are exposed are delivered to 
    a guardian angel, and that by him they are trained and reared. "And they 
    shall be," it says, "as the faithtful in this world of a hundred years of 
    age." Wherefore also Peter, in the Revelation, says: "And a flash of fire, 
    leaping from those infants, and striking the eyes of the women." For the 
    just shines: forth as a spark in a reed, and will judge the nations. 
    42. "With the holy Thou wilt be holy." "According to thy praise is 
    thy name glorified;" God being glorified through our knowledge, and through 
    the inheritance. Thus also it is said, "The Lord liveth," and "The Lord hath 
    risen." 
    43. "A people whom I knew not hath served me;" --by covenant I 
    knew them not, alien sons, who desired what pertained to another. 
    44. "Magnifying the salvations of His king." All the faithful are 
    called kings, brought to royalty through inheritance. 
    45. Long-suffering is sweetness above honey; not because it is 
    long-suffering, but in consequence of the fruit of long-suffering. Since, 
    then, the man of self-control is devoid of passion, inasmuch as he restrains 
    the passions, not without toil; but when habit is formed, he is no longer a 
    man of self-control, the man having come trader the influence of one habit 
    and of the Holy Spirit. 
    46. The passions that are in the soul are called spirits,--not 
    spirits of power, since in that case the man under the influence of passion 
    would be a legion of demons; but they are so called in consequence of the 
    impulse they communicate. For the soul itself, through modifications, taking 
    on this and that other sort of qualities of wickedness, is said to receive 
    spirits. 
    47. The Word does not bid us renounce property; but to manage 
    property without inordinate affection; and on anything happening, not to be 
    vexed or grieved; and not to desire to acquire. Divine Providence bids keep 
    away from possession accompanied with passion, and from all inordinate 
    affection, and from this turns back those still remaining in the flesh. 
    48. For instance, Peter says in the Apocalypse, that abortive 
    infants shall share the better fate; that these are committed to a guardian 
    angel, so that, on receiving knowledge, they may obtain the better abode, 
    having had the same experiences which they would have had had they been in 
    the body. But the others shall obtain salvation merely, as being injured and 
    pitied, and remain without punishment, receiving this reward. 
    49. The milk of women, flowing from the breasts and thickening, 
    says Peter in the Apocalypse, will produce minute beasts, that prey on 
    flesh, and running back into them will consume them: teaching that 
    punishments arise for sins. He says that they are produced from sins; as it 
    was for their sins that the people were sold. And for their want of faith in 
    Christ, as the apostle says, they were bitten by serpents. 
    50. An ancient said that the embryo is a living thing; for that 
    the soul entering into the womb after it has been by cleansing prepared for 
    conception, and introduced by one of the angels who preside over generation, 
    and who knows the time for conception, moves the woman to intercourse; and 
    that, on the seed being deposited, the spirit, which is in the seed, is, so 
    to speak, appropriated, and is thus assumed into conjunction in the process 
    of formation. He cited as a proof to all, how, when the angels give glad 
    tidings to the barren, they introduce souls before conception. And in the 
    Gospel "the babe leapt" as a living thing. And the barren are barren for 
    this reason, that the soul, which unites for the deposit of the seed, is not 
    introduced so as to secure conception and generation. 
    51. "The heavens declare the glory of God." The heavens are taken 
    in various meanings, both those defined by space and revolution, and those 
    by covenant,--the immediate operation of the first-created angels. For the 
    covenants caused a more especial appearance of angels,--that in the case of 
    Adam, that in the case of Noah, that in the case of Abraham, that in the 
    case of Moses. For, moved by the Lord, the first-created angels exercised 
    their influence on the angels attached to the prophets, considering the 
    covenants the glory of God. Furthermore, the things done on earth by angels 
    were done by the first-created angels to the glory of God. 
    52. It is the Lord that is principally denominated the Heavens, 
    and then the First-created; and after these also the holy men before the 
    Law, as the patriarchs, and Moses, and the prophets; then also the apostles. 
    "And the firmament showeth His handiwork." He applies the term "firmament" 
    to God, the passionless and immoveable, as also elsewhere the same David 
    says, "I will love Thee, O Lord, my strength and my refuge." Accordingly, 
    the firmament itself shows forth the work of His hands,--that is, shows and 
    manifests the work of His angels. For He shows forth and manifests those 
    whom He hath made. 
    53. "Day unto day uttereth speech." As the heavens have various 
    meanings, so also has day. Now speech is the Lord; and He is also frequently 
    called day. "And night unto night showeth forth knowledge." The devil knew 
    that the Lord was to come. But he did not believe that He was God; wherefore 
    also he tempted Him, in order to know if He were powerful. It is said, "he 
    left Him, and departed from Him for a season;" that is, he postponed the 
    discovery till the resurrection. For he knew that He who was to rise was the 
    Lord. Likewise also the demons; since also they suspected that Solomon was 
    the Lord, and they knew that he was not so, on his sinning. "Night to 
    night." All the demons knew that He who rose after the passion was the Lord. 
    And already Enoch had said, that the angels who transgressed taught men 
    astronomy and divination, and the rest of the arts. 
    54. "There are no speeches or words whose voices are not heard," 
    neither of days nor nights. "Their sound is gone forth unto all the earth." 
    He has transferred the discourse to the saints alone, whom he calls both 
    heavens and days. 
    55. The stars, spiritual bodies, that have communications with the 
    angels set over them, and are governed by them, are not the cause of the 
    production of things, but are signs of what is taking place, and will take 
    place, and have taken place in the case of atmospheric changes, of 
    fruitfulness and barrenness, of pestilence and fevers, and in the case of 
    men. The stars do not in the least degree exert influences, but indicate 
    what is, and will be, and has been. 
    56. "And in the sun hath He set His tabernacle." There is a 
    transposition here. For it is of the second coming that the discourse is. 
    So, then, we must read what is transposed in its due sequence: "And he, as a 
    bridegroom issuing from his chamber, will rejoice as a giant to run his way. 
    From heaven's end is his going forth; and there is no one who shall hide 
    himself from his heat;" and then, "He hath set His tabernacle in the sun." 
    Some say that He deposited the Lord's body in the sun, as Hermogenes. And 
    "His tabernacle," some say, is His body, others the Church of the faithful. 
    Our Pantaenus used to say, that prophecy utters its expressions 
    indefinitely for the most part, and uses the present for the future, and 
    again the present for the past. Which is also seen here. For "He hath set" 
    is put both for the past and the future. For the future, because, on the 
    completion of this period, which is to run according to its present 
    constitution, the Lord will come to restore the righteous, the faithful, in 
    whom He rests, as in a tent, to one and the same unity; for all are one 
    body, of the same race, and have chosen the same faith and righteousness. 
    But sortie as head, some as eyes, some as ears, some as hands, some as 
    breasts, some as feet, shall be set, resplendent, in the sun. "Shine forth 
    as the sun," or in the sun; since an angel high in command is in the sun. 
    For he is appointed for rule over days; as the moon is for ruling over 
    night. Now angels are called days. Along with the angels in the sun, it is 
    said, they shall have assigned to them one abode, to be for some time and in 
    some respects the sun, as it were the head of the body which is one. And, 
    besides, they also are the rulers of the days, as that angel in the sun, for 
    the greater purpose for which he before them migrated to the same place. And 
    again destined to ascend progressively, they reach the first abode, in 
    accordance with the past "He hath set:" so that the first-created angels 
    shall no longer, according to providence, exercise a definite ministry, but 
    may be in repose, and devoted to the contemplation of God alone; while those 
    next to them shall be promoted to the post which they have left; and so 
    those beneath them similarly. 
    57. There are then, according to the apostle, those on the summit, 
    the first-created. And they are thrones, although Powers, being the 
    first-created, inasmuch as God rests in them, as also in those who believe. 
    For each one, according to his own stage of advancement possesses the 
    knowledge of God in a way special to himself; and in this knowledge God 
    reposes, those who possess knowledge being made immortal by knowledge. And 
    is not "He set His tabernacle in the sun" to be understood thus? God "set in 
    the sun," that is, in the God who is beside Him, as in the Gospel, Eli, Eli, 
    instead of my God, my God. And what is above all rule, and authority, and 
    power, and every name that is named," are those from among men that are made 
    perfect as angels and archangels, so as to rise to the nature of the angels 
    first-created. For those who are changed from men to angels are instructed 
    for a thousand years by the angels after they are brought to perfection. 
    Then those who have taught are translated to archangelic authority; and 
    those who have learned instruct those again who from men are changed to 
    angels. Thus afterwards, in the prescribed periods, they are brought to the 
    proper angelic state of the body. 
    58. "The law of God is perfect, converting souls." The Saviour 
    Himself is called Law and Word, as Peter in "the Preaching," and the 
    prophet: "Out of Zion shall go forth the Law, and the Word of the Lord from 
    Jerusalem." 
    59. "The testimony of the Lord is sure, making children wise." The 
    covenant of the Lord is true, making wise children; those free from evil, 
    both the apostles, and then also us. Besides, the testimony of the Lord, 
    according to which He rose again after His passion, having been verified by 
    fact, led the Church to confirmation in faith. 
    60. "The fear of the Lord is pure, enduring for ever." He says 
    that those who have been turned from fear to faith and righteousness endure 
    for ever. "The judgments of the Lord are true,"--sure, and incapable of 
    being overturned; and giving rewards according to what is right, bringing 
    the righteous to the unity of the faith. For this is shown in the words, 
    "justified for the same." "Such desires are above gold and precious stone." 
    61. "For also Thy servant keeps them." Not that David alone is 
    called servant; but the whole people saved is called the servant of God, in 
    virtue of obedience to the command. 
    62. "Cleanse me from my secret faults;"--thoughts contrary to 
    right reason--defects. For He calls this foreign to the righteous man. 
    63. "If they have not dominion over me, then shall I be innocent." 
    If those who persecute me as they did the Lord, do not have dominion over 
    me, I shall not be innocent. For no one becomes a martyr unless he is 
    persecuted; nor appears righteous, unless, being wronged, he takes no 
    revenge; nor forbearing ... 

