
Tripartite Tractate











Translated by Harold W. Attridge and Dieter Mueller


      Part I 
1. Introduction 
As for what we can say about the things which are exalted, what is fitting is that we
      begin with the Father, who is the root of the Totality, the one from whom we have received
      grace to speak about him. 
2. The Father 
He existed before anything other than himself came into being. The Father is a single
      one, like a number, for he is the first one and the one who is only himself. Yet he is not
      like a solitary individual. Otherwise, how could he be a father? For whenever there is a
      "father," the name "son" follows. But the single one, who alone is the
      Father, is like a root, with tree, branches and fruit. It is said of him that he is a
      father in the proper sense, since he is inimitable and immutable. Because of this, he is
      single in the proper sense, and is a god, because no one is a god for him nor is anyone a
      father to him. For he is unbegotten, and there is no other who begot him, nor another who
      created him. For whoever is someone's father or his creator, he, too, has a father and
      creator. It is certainly possible for him to be father and creator of the one who came
      into being from him and the one whom he created, for he is not a father in the proper
      sense, nor a god, because he has someone who begot him and who created him. It is, then,
      only the Father and God in the proper sense that no one else begot. As for the Totalities,
      he is the one who begot them and created them. He is without beginning and without end. 
Not only is he without end - He is immortal for this reason, that he is unbegotten -
      but he is also invariable in his eternal existence, in his identity, in that by which he
      is established, and in that by which he is great. Neither will he remove himself from that
      by which he is, nor will anyone else force him to produce an end which he has not ever
      desired. He has not had anyone who initiated his own existence. Thus, he is himself
      unchanged, and no one else can remove him from his existence and his identity, that in
      which he is, and his greatness, so that he cannot be grasped; nor is it possible for
      anyone else to change him into a different form, or to reduce him, or alter him or
      diminish him, - since this is so in the fullest sense of the truth - who is the
      unalterable, immutable one, with immutability clothing him. 
Not only is he the one called "without a beginning" and "without an
      end," because he is unbegotten and immortal; but just as he has no beginning and no
      end as he is, he is unattainable in his greatness, inscrutable in his wisdom,
      incomprehensible in his power, and unfathomable in his sweetness. 
In the proper sense, he alone - the good, the unbegotten Father, and the complete
      perfect one - is the one filled with all his offspring, and with every virtue, and with
      everything of value. And he has more, that is, lack of any malice, in order that it may be
      discovered that whoever has anything is indebted to him, because he gives it, being
      himself unreachable and unwearied by that which he gives, since he is wealthy in the gifts
      which he bestows, and at rest in the favors which he grants. 
He is of such a kind and form and great magnitude that no one else has been with him
      from the beginning; nor is there a place in which he is, or from which he has come forth,
      or into which he will go; nor is there a primordial form, which he uses as a model as he
      works; nor is there any difficulty which accompanies him in what he does; nor is there any
      material which is at his disposal, from which <he> creates what he creates; nor any
      substance within him from which he begets what he begets; nor a co-worker with him,
      working with him on the things at which he works. To say anything of this sort is
      ignorant. Rather, (one should speak of him) as good, faultless, perfect, complete, being
      himself the Totality. 
Not one of the names which are conceived or spoken, seen or grasped - not one of them
      applies to him, even though they are exceedingly glorious, magnifying and honored.
      However, it is possible to utter these names for his glory and honor, in accordance with
      the capacity of each of those who give him glory. Yet as for him, in his own existence,
      being and form, it is impossible for mind to conceive him, nor can any speech convey him,
      nor can any eye see him, nor can any body grasp him, because of his inscrutable greatness,
      and his incomprehensible depth, and his immeasurable height, and his illimitable will.
      This is the nature of the unbegotten one, which does not touch anything else; nor is it
      joined (to anything) in the manner of something which is limited. Rather, he possesses
      this constitution, without having a face or a form, things which are understood through
      perception, whence also comes (the epithet) "the incomprehensible. If he is
      incomprehensible, then it follows that he is unknowable, that he is the one who is
      inconceivable by any thought, invisible by any thing, ineffable by any word, untouchable
      by any hand. He alone is the one who knows himself as he is, along with his form and his
      greatness and his magnitude. And since he has the ability to conceive of himself, to see
      himself, to name himself, to comprehend himself, he alone is the one who is his own mind,
      his own eye, his own mouth, his own form, and he is what he thinks, what he sees, what he
      speaks, what he grasps, himself, the one who is inconceivable, ineffable,
      incomprehensible, immutable, while sustaining, joyous, true, delightful, and restful is
      that which he conceives, that which he sees, that about which he speaks, that which he has
      as thought. He transcends all wisdom, and is above all intellect, and is above all glory,
      and is above all beauty, and all sweetness, and all greatness, and any depth and any
      height. 
If this one, who is unknowable in his nature, to whom pertain all the greatnesses which
      I already mentioned - if, out of the abundance of his sweetness, he wishes to grant
      knowledge, so that he might be known, he has the ability to do so. He has his Power, which
      is his will. Now, however, in silence he himself holds back, he who is the great one, who
      is the cause of bringing the Totalities into their eternal being. 
It is in the proper sense that he begets himself as ineffable, since he alone is
      self-begotten, since he conceives of himself, and since he knows himself as he is. What is
      worthy of his admiration and glory and honor and praise, he produces because of the
      boundlessness of his greatness, and the unsearchability of his wisdom, and the
      immeasurability of his power, and his untasteable sweetness. He is the one who projects
      himself thus, as generation, having glory and honor marvelous and lovely; the one who
      glorifies himself, who marvels, <who> honors, who also loves; the one who has a Son,
      who subsists in him, who is silent concerning him, who is the ineffable one in the
      ineffable one, the invisible one, the incomprehensible one, the inconceivable one in the
      inconceivable one. Thus, he exists in him forever. The Father, in the way we mentioned
      earlier, in an unbegotten way, is the one in whom he knows himself, who begot him having a
      thought, which is the thought of him, that is, the perception of him, which is the [...]
      of his constitution forever. That is, however, in the proper sense, the silence and the
      wisdom and the grace, if it is designated properly in this way. 
3. The Son and the Church 
Just as the Father exists in the proper sense, the one before whom there was no one
      else, and the one apart from whom there is no other unbegotten one, so too the Son exists
      in the proper sense, the one before whom there was no other, and after whom no other son
      exists. Therefore, he is a firstborn and an only Son, "firstborn" because no one
      exists before him and "only Son" because no one is after him. Furthermore, he
      has his fruit, that which is unknowable because of its surpassing greatness. Yet he wanted
      it to be known, because of the riches of his sweetness. And he revealed the unexplainable
      power, and he combined with it the great abundance of his generosity. 
Not only did the Son exist from the beginning, but the Church, too, existed from the
      beginning. Now, he who thinks that the discovery that the Son is an only son opposes the
      statement (about the Church) because of the mysterious quality of the matter, it is not
      so. For just as the Father is a unity, and has revealed himself as Father for him alone,
      so too the Son was found to be a brother to himself alone, in virtue of the fact that he
      is unbegotten and without beginning. He wonders at himself, along with the Father, and he
      gives him(self) glory and honor and love. Furthermore, he too is the one whom he conceives
      of as Son, in accordance with the dispositions: "without beginning" and
      "without end." Thus is the matter something which is fixed. Being innumerable
      and illimitable, his offspring are indivisible. Those which exist have come forth from the
      Son and the Father like kisses, because of the multitude of some who kiss one another with
      a good, insatiable thought, the kiss being a unity, although it involves many kisses. This
      is to say, it is the Church consisting of many men that existed before the aeons, which is
      called, in the proper sense, "the aeons of the aeons." This is the nature of the
      holy imperishable spirits, upon which the Son rests, since it is his essence, just as the
      Father rests upon the Son. 
4. Aeonic Emanations 
[...] the Church exists in the dispositions and properties in which the Father and the
      Son exist, as I have said from the start. Therefore, it subsists in the procreations of
      innumerable aeons. Also in an uncountable way they too beget, by the properties and the
      dispositions in which it (the Church) exists. For these comprise its association which
      they form toward one another and toward those who have come forth from them toward the
      Son, for whose glory they exist. Therefore, it is not possible for mind to conceive of him
      - He was the perfection of that place - nor can speech express them, for they are
      ineffable and unnameable and inconceivable. They alone have the ability to name themselves
      and to conceive of themselves. For they have not been rooted in these places. 
Those of that place are ineffable, (and) innumerable in the system which is both the
      manner and the size, the joy, the gladness of the unbegotten, nameless, unnameable,
      inconceivable, invisible, incomprehensible one. It is the fullness of paternity, so that
      his abundance is a begetting [...] of the aeons. 
They were forever in thought, for the Father was like a thought and a place for them.
      When their generations had been established, the one who is completely in control wished
      to lay hold of and to bring forth that which was deficient in the [...] and he brought
      forth those [...] him. But since he is as he is, he is a spring, which is not diminished
      by the water which abundantly flows from it. While they were in the Father's thought, that
      is, in the hidden depth, the depth knew them, but they were unable to know the depth in
      which they were; nor was it possible for them to know themselves, nor for them to know
      anything else. That is, they were with the Father; they did not exist for themselves.
      Rather, they only had existence in the manner of a seed, so that it has been discovered
      that they existed like a fetus. Like the word he begot them, subsisting spermatically, and
      the ones whom he was to beget had not yet come into being from him. The one who first
      thought of them, the Father, - not only so that they might exist for him, but also that
      they might exist for themselves as well, that they might then exist in his thought as
      mental substance and that they might exist for themselves too, - sowed a thought like a
      spermatic seed. Now, in order that they might know what exists for them, he graciously
      granted the initial form, while in order that they might recognize who is the Father who
      exists for them, he gave them the name "Father" by means of a voice proclaiming
      to them that what exists, exists through that name, which they have by virtue of the fact
      that they came into being, because the exaltation, which has escaped their notice, is in
      the name. 
The infant, while in the form of a fetus has enough for itself, before ever seeing the
      one who sowed it. Therefore, they had the sole task of searching for him, realizing that
      he exists, ever wishing to find out what exists. Since, however, the perfect Father is
      good, just as he did not hear them at all so that they would exist (only) in his thought,
      but rather granted that they, too, might come into being, so also will he give them grace
      to know what exists, that is, the one who knows himself eternally, [...] form to know what
      exists, just as people are begotten in this place: when they are born, they are in the
      light, so that they see those who have begotten them. 
The Father brought forth everything, like a little child, like a drop from a spring,
      like a blossom from a vine, like a flower, like a <planting> [...], in need of
      gaining nourishment and growth and faultlessness. He withheld it for a time. He who had
      thought of it from the very beginning, possessed it from the very beginning, and saw it,
      but he closed it off to those who first came from him. (He did this,) not out of envy, but
      in order that the aeons might not receive their faultlessness from the very beginning and
      might not exalt themselves to the glory, to the Father, and might think that from
      themselves alone they have this. But just as he wished to grant that they might come into
      being, so too, in order that they might come into being as faultless ones, when he wished,
      he gave them the perfect idea of beneficence toward them. 
The one whom he raised up as a light for those who came from himself, the one from whom
      they take their name, he is the Son, who is full, complete and faultless. He brought him
      forth mingled with what came forth from him [...] partaking of the [...] the Totality, in
      accordance with [...] by which each one can receive him for himself, though such was not
      his greatness before he was received by it. Rather, he exists by himself. As for the parts
      in which he exists in his own manner and form and greatness, it is possible for
      <them> to see him and speak about that which they know of him, since they wear him
      while he wears them, because it is possible for them to comprehend him. He, however, is as
      he is, incomparable. In order that the Father might receive honor from each one and reveal
      himself, even in his ineffability, hidden, and invisible, they marvel at him mentally.
      Therefore, the greatness of his loftiness consists in the fact that they speak about him
      and see him. He becomes manifest, so that he may be hymned because of the abundance of his
      sweetness, with the grace of <...>. And just as the admirations of the silences are
      eternal generations and they are mental offspring, so too the dispositions of the word are
      spiritual emanations. Both of them admirations and dispositions, since they belong to a
      word, are seeds and thoughts of his offspring, and roots which live forever, appearing to
      be offspring which have come forth from themselves, being minds and spiritual offspring to
      the glory of the Father. 
There is no need for voice and spirit, mind and word, because there is no need to work
      at that which they desire to do, but on the pattern by which he was existing, so are those
      who have come forth from him, begetting everything which they desire. And the one whom
      they conceive of, and whom they speak about, and the one toward whom they move, and the
      one in whom they are, and the one whom they hymn, thereby glorifying him, he has sons. For
      this is their procreative power, like those from whom they have come, according to their
      mutual assistance, since they assist one another like the unbegotten ones. 
The Father, in accordance with his exalted position over the Totalities, being an
      unknown and incomprehensible one, has such greatness and magnitude, that, if he had
      revealed himself suddenly, quickly, to all the exalted ones among the aeons who had come
      forth from him, they would have perished. Therefore, he withheld his power and his
      inexhaustibility within that in which he is. He is ineffable and unnameable and exalted
      above every mind and every word. This one, however, stretched himself out and it was that
      which he stretched out which gave a foundation and a space and a dwelling place for the
      universe, a name of his being "the one through whom," since he is Father of the
      All, out of his laboring for those who exist, having sown into their thought that they
      might seek after him. The abundance of their [...] consists in the fact that they
      understand that he exists and in the fact that they ask what it is that was existing. This
      one was given to them for enjoyment and nourishment and joy and an abundance of
      illumination, which consists in his fellow laboring, his knowledge and his mingling with
      them, that is, the one who is called and is, in fact, the Son, since he is the Totalities
      and the one of whom they know both who he is and that it is he who clothes. This is the
      one who is called "Son" and the one of whom they understand that he exists and
      they were seeking after him. This is the one who exists as Father and (as) the one about
      whom they cannot speak, and the one of whom they do not conceive. This is the one who
      first came into being. 
It is impossible for anyone to conceive of him or think of him. Or can anyone approach
      there, toward the exalted one, toward the preexistent in the proper sense? But all the
      names conceived or spoken about him are presented in honor, as a trace of him, according
      to the ability of each one of those who glorify him. Now he who arose from him when he
      stretched himself out for begetting and for knowledge on the part of the Totalities, he
      [...] all of the names, without falsification, and he is, in the proper sense, the sole
      first one, the man of the Father, that is, the one whom I call 
the form of the formless, 
the body of the bodiless, 
the face of the invisible, 
the word of the unutterable, 
the mind of the inconceivable, 
the fountain which flowed from him, 
the root of those who are planted, 
and the god of those who exist, 
the light of those whom he illumines, 
the love of those whom he loved, 
the providence of those for whom he providentially cares, 
the wisdom of those whom he made wise, 
the power of those to whom he gives power, 
the assembly of those whom he assembles to him, 
the revelation of the things which are sought after, 
the eye of those who see, 
the breath of those who breathe, 
the life of those who live, 
the unity of those who are mixed with the Totalities. 

All of them exist in the single one, as he clothes himself completely and by his single
      name he is never called. And in this unique way they are equally the single one and the
      Totalities. He is neither divided as a body, nor is he separated into the names which he
      has received, (so that) he is one thing in this way and another in another way. Also,
      neither does he change in [...], nor does he turn into the names which he thinks of, and
      become now this, now something else, this thing now being one thing and, at another time,
      something else, but rather he is wholly himself to the uttermost. He is each and every one
      of the Totalities forever at the same time. He is what all of them are. He brought the
      Father to the Totalities. He also is the Totalities, for he is the one who is knowledge
      for himself and he is each one of the properties. He has the powers and he is beyond all
      that which he knows, while seeing himself in himself completely and having a Son and form.
      Therefore, his powers and properties are innumerable and inaudible, because of the
      begetting by which he begets them. Innumerable and indivisible are the begettings of his
      words, and his commands and his Totalities. He knows them, which things he himself is,
      since they are in the single name, and are all speaking in it. And he brings (them) forth,
      in order that it might be discovered that they exist according to their individual
      properties in a unified way. And he did not reveal the multitude to the Totalities at once
      nor did he reveal his equality to those who had come forth from him. 
5. Aeonic Life 
All those who came forth from him <who> are the aeons of the aeons, being
      emanations and offspring of <his> procreative nature, they too, in their procreative
      nature, have <given> glory to the Father, as he was the cause of their
      establishment. This is what we said previously, namely that he creates the aeons as roots
      and springs and fathers, and that he is the one to whom they give glory. They have
      begotten, for he has knowledge and wisdom and the Totalities knew that it is from
      knowledge and wisdom that they have come forth. They would have brought forth a seeming
      honor: "The Father is the one who is the Totalities," if the aeons had risen up
      to give honor individually. Therefore, in the song of glorification and in the power of
      the unity of him from whom they have come, they were drawn into a mingling and a
      combination and a unity with one another. They offered glory worthy of the Father from the
      pleromatic congregation, which is a single representation although many, because it was
      brought forth as a glory for the single one and because they came forth toward the one who
      is himself the Totalities. Now, this was a praise [...] the one who brought forth the
      Totalities, being a first-fruit of the immortals and an eternal one, because, having come
      forth from the living aeons, being perfect and full because of the one who is perfect and
      full, it left full and perfect those who have given glory in a perfect way because of the
      fellowship. For, like the faultless Father, when he is glorified he also hears the glory
      which glorifies him, so as to make them manifest as that which he is. 
The cause of the second honor which accrued to them is that which was returned to them
      from the Father when they had known the grace by which they bore fruit with one another
      because of the Father. As a result, just as they <were> brought forth in glory for
      the Father, so too in order to appear perfect, they appeared acting by giving glory. 
They were fathers of the third glory according to the independence and the power which
      was begotten with them, since each one of them individually does not exist so as to give
      glory in a unitary way to him whom he loves. 
They are the first and the second and thus both of them are perfect and full, for they
      are manifestations of the Father who is perfect and full, as well as of those who came
      forth, who are perfect by the fact that they glorify the perfect one. The fruit of the
      third, however, consists of honors of the will of each one of the aeons, and each one of
      the properties. The Father has power. It exists fully, perfect in the thought which is a
      product of agreement, since it is a product of the individuality of the aeons. It is this
      which he loves and over which he has power, as it gives glory to the Father by means of
      it. 
For this reason, they are minds of minds, which are found to be words of words, elders
      of elders, degrees of degrees, which are exalted above one another. Each one of those who
      give glory has his place and his exaltation and his dwelling and his rest, which consists
      of the glory which he brings forth. 
All those who glorify the Father have their begetting eternally, - they beget in the
      act of assisting one another - since the emanations are limitless and immeasurable and
      since there is no envy on the part of the Father toward those who came forth from him in
      regard to their begetting something equal or similar to him, since he is the one who
      exists in the Totalities, begetting and revealing himself. Whomever he wishes, he makes
      into a father, of whom he in fact is Father, and a god, of whom he in fact is God, and he
      makes them the Totalities, whose entirety he is. In the proper sense all the names which
      are great are kept there, these (names) which the angels share, who have come into being
      in the cosmos along with the archons, although they do not have any resemblance to the
      eternal beings. 
The entire system of the aeons has a love and a longing for the perfect, complete
      discovery of the Father and this is their unimpeded agreement. Though the Father reveals
      himself eternally, he did not wish that they should know him, since he grants that he be
      conceived of in such a way as to be sought for, while keeping to himself his unsearchable
      primordial being. 
It is he, the Father, who gave root impulses to the aeons, since they are places on the
      path which leads toward him, as toward a school of behavior. He has extended to them faith
      in and prayer to him whom they do not see; and a firm hope in him of whom they do not
      conceive; and a fruitful love, which looks toward that which it does not see; and an
      acceptable understanding of the eternal mind; and a blessing, which is riches and freedom;
      and a wisdom of the one who desires the glory of the Father for <his> thought. 
It is by virtue of his will that the Father, the one who is exalted, is known, that is,
      (by virtue of) the spirit which breathes in the Totalities and it gives them an idea of
      seeking after the unknown one, just as one is drawn by a pleasant aroma to search for the
      thing from which the aroma arises, since the aroma of the Father surpasses these ordinary
      ones. For his sweetness leaves the aeons in ineffable pleasure and it gives them their
      idea of mingling with him who wants them to know him in a united way and to assist one
      another in the spirit which is sown within them. Though existing under a great weight,
      they are renewed in an inexpressible way, since it is impossible for them to be separated
      from that in which they are set in an uncomprehending way, because they will not speak,
      being silent about the Father's glory, about the one who has power to speak, and yet they
      will take form from him. He revealed himself, though it is impossible to speak of him.
      They have him, hidden in a thought, since from this one [...]. They are silent about the
      way the Father is in his form and his nature and his greatness, while the aeons have
      become worthy of knowing through his spirit that he is unnameable and incomprehensible. It
      is through his spirit, which is the trace of the search for him, that he provides them the
      ability to conceive of him and to speak about him. 
Each one of the aeons is a name, <that is>, each of the properties and powers of
      the Father, since he exists in many names, which are intermingled and harmonious with one
      another. It is possible to speak of him because of the wealth of speech, just as the
      Father is a single name, because he is a unity, yet is innumerable in his properties and
      names. 
The emanation of the Totalities, which exist from the one who exists, did not occur
      according to a separation from one another, as something cast off from the one who begets
      them. Rather, their begetting is like a process of extension, as the Father extends
      himself to those whom he loves, so that those who have come forth from him might become
      him as well. 
Just as the present aeon, though a unity, is divided by units of time and units of time
      are divided into years and years are divided into seasons and seasons into months, and
      months into days, and days into hours, and hours into moments, so too the aeon of the
      Truth, since it is a unity and multiplicity, receives honor in the small and the great
      names according to the power of each to grasp it - by way of analogy - like a spring which
      is what it is, yet flows into streams and lakes and canals and branches, or like a root
      spread out beneath trees and branches with its fruit, or like a human body, which is
      partitioned in an indivisible way into members of members, primary members and secondary,
      great and small. 
6. The Imperfect Begetting by the Logos 
The aeons have brought themselves forth in accord with the third fruit by the freedom
      of the will and by the wisdom with which he favored them for their thought. They do not
      wish to give honor with that which is from an agreement, though it was produced for words
      of praise for each of the Pleromas. Nor do they wish to give honor with the Totality. Nor
      do they wish (to do so) with anyone else who was originally above the depth of that one,
      or (above) his place, except, however, for the one who exists in an exalted name and in
      the exalted place, and only if he receives from the one who wished (to give honor), and
      takes it to him(self) for the one above him, and (only if) he begets him(self), so to
      speak, himself, and, through that one, begets him(self) along with that which he is, and
      himself becomes renewed along with the one who came upon him, by his brother, and sees him
      and entreats him about the matter, namely, he who wished to ascend to him. 
So that it might be in this way, the one who wished to give honor does not say anything
      to him about this, except only that there is a limit to speech set in the Pleroma, so that
      they are silent about the incomprehensibility of the Father, but they speak about the one
      who wishes to comprehend him. It came to one of the aeons that he should attempt to grasp
      the incomprehensibility and give glory to it and especially to the ineffability of the
      Father. Since he is a Logos of the unity, he is one, though he is not from the agreement
      of the Totalities, nor from him who brought them forth, namely, the one who brought forth
      the Totality, the Father. 
This aeon was among those to whom was given wisdom, so that he could become
      pre-existent in each one's thought. By that which he wills, will they be produced.
      Therefore, he received a wise nature in order to examine the hidden basis, since he is a
      wise fruit; for, the free will which was begotten with the Totalities was a cause for this
      one, such as to make him do what he desired, with no one to restrain him. 
The intent, then, of the Logos, who is this one, was good. When he had come forth, he
      gave glory to the Father, even if it led to something beyond possibility, since he had
      wanted to bring forth one who is perfect, from an agreement in which he had not been, and
      without having the command. 
This aeon was last to have <been> brought forth by mutual assistance, and he was
      small in magnitude. And before he begot anything else for the glory of the will and in
      agreement with the Totalities, he acted, magnanimously, from an abundant love, and set out
      toward that which surrounds the perfect glory, for it was not without the will of the
      Father that the Logos was produced, which is to say, not without it will he go forth. But
      he, the Father, had brought him forth for those about whom he knew that it was fitting
      that they should come into being. 
The Father and the Totalities drew away from him, so that the limit which the Father
      had set might be established - for it is not from grasping the incomprehensibility but by
      the will of the Father, - and furthermore, (they withdrew) so that the things which have
      come to be might become an organization which would come into being. If it were to come,
      it would not come into being by the manifestation of the Pleroma. Therefore, it is not
      fitting to criticize the movement which is the Logos, but it is fitting that we should say
      about the movement of the Logos that it is a cause of an organization which has been
      destined to come about. 
The Logos himself caused it to happen, being complete and unitary, for the glory of the
      Father, whom he desired, and (he did so) being content with it, but those whom he wished
      to take hold of firmly he begot in shadows and copies and likenesses. For, he was not able
      to bear the sight of the light, but he looked into the depth and he doubted. Out of this
      there was a division - he became deeply troubled - and a turning away because of his
      self-doubt and division, forgetfulness and ignorance of himself and <of that> which
      is. 
His self-exaltation and his expectation of comprehending the incomprehensible became
      firm for him and was in him. But the sicknesses followed him when he went beyond himself,
      having come into being from self-doubt, namely from the fact that he did not <reach the
      attainment of> the glories of the Father, the one whose exalted status is among things
      unlimited. This one did not attain him, for he did not receive him. 
The one whom he himself brought forth as a unitary aeon rushed up to that which is his
      and this kin of his in the Pleroma abandoned him who came to be in the defect along with
      those who had come forth from him in an imaginary way, since they are not his. 
When he who produced himself as perfect actually did bring himself forth, he became
      weak like a female nature which has abandoned its virile counterpart. 
From that which was deficient in itself there came those things which came into being
      from his thought and his arrogance, but from that which is perfect in him he left it and
      raised himself up to those who are his. He was in the Pleroma as a remembrance for him so
      that he would be saved from his arrogance. 
The one who ran on high and the one who drew him to himself were not barren, but in
      bringing forth a fruit in the Pleroma, they upset those who were in the defect. 
Like the Pleromas are the things which came into being from the arrogant thought, which
      are their (the Pleromas') likenesses, copies, shadows, and phantasms, lacking reason and
      the light, these which belong to the vain thought, since they are not products of
      anything. Therefore, their end will be like their beginning: from that which did not exist
      (they are) to return once again to that which will not be. It is they, however, by
      themselves who are greater, more powerful, and more honored than the names which are given
      to them, which are their shadows. In the manner of a reflection are they beautiful. For
      the face of the copy normally takes its beauty from that of which it is a copy. 
They thought of themselves that they are beings existing by themselves and are without
      a source, since they do not see anything else existing before them. Therefore, they lived
      in disobedience and acts of rebellion, without having humbled themselves before the one
      because of whom they came into being. 
They wanted to command one another, overcoming one another in their vain ambition,
      while the glory which they possess contains a cause of the system which was to be. 
They are likenesses of the things which are exalted. They were brought to a lust for
      power in each one of them, according to the greatness of the name of which each is a
      shadow, each one imagining that it is superior to his fellows. 
The thought of these others was not barren, but just like <those> of which they
      are shadows, all that they thought about they have as potential sons; those of whom they
      thought they had as offspring. Therefore, it happened that many offspring came forth from
      them, as fighters, as warriors, as troublemakers, as apostates. They are disobedient
      beings, lovers of power. All the other beings of this sort were brought forth from these. 
7. The Conversion of the Logos 
The Logos was a cause of those who came into being and he continued all the more to be
      at a loss and he was astonished. Instead of perfection, he saw a defect; instead of
      unification, he saw division; instead of stability, he saw disturbances; instead of rests,
      tumults. Neither was it possible for him to make them cease from loving disturbance, nor
      was it possible for him to destroy it. He was completely powerless, once his totality and
      his exaltation abandoned him. 
Those who had come into being not knowing themselves both did not know the Pleromas
      from which they came forth and did not know the one who was the cause of their existence. 
The Logos, being in such unstable conditions, did not continue to bring forth anything
      like emanations, the things which are in the Pleroma, the glories which exist for the
      honor of the Father. Rather, he brought forth little weaklings, hindered) by the illnesses
      by which he too was hindered. It was the likeness of the disposition which was a unity,
      that which was the cause of the things which do not themselves exist from the first. 
Until the one who brought forth into the defect these things which were thus in need,
      until he judged those who came into being because of him contrary to reason - which is the
      judgment which became a condemnation - he struggled against them unto destruction, that
      is, the ones who struggled against the condemnation and whom the wrath pursues, while it
      (the wrath) accepts and redeems (them) from their (false) opinion and apostasy, since from
      it is the conversion which is also called "metanoia." The Logos turned to
      another opinion and another thought. Having turned away from evil, he turned toward the
      good things. Following the conversion came the thought of the things which exist and the
      prayer for the one who converted himself to the good. 
The one who is in the Pleroma was what he first prayed to and remembered; then (he
      remembered) his brothers individually and (yet) always with one another; then all of them
      together; but before all of them, the Father. The prayer of the agreement was a help for
      him in his own return and (in that of) the Totality, for a cause of his remembering those
      who have existed from the first was his being remembered. This is the thought which calls
      out from afar, bringing him back. 
All his prayer and remembering were numerous powers according to that limit. For there
      is nothing barren in his thought. 
The powers were good and were greater than those of the likeness. For those belonging
      to the likeness also belong to a nature of falsehood. From an illusion of similarity and a
      thought of arrogance has come about that which they became. And they originate from the
      thought which first knew them. 
To what do the former beings pertain? They are like forgetfulness and heavy sleep;
      being like those who dream troubled dreams, to whom sleep comes while they - those who
      dream - are oppressed. The others are like some creatures of light for him, looking for
      the rising of the sun, since it happened that they saw in him dreams which are truly
      sweet. It immediately put a stop to the emanations of the thought. They did not any longer
      have their substance and also they did not have honor any longer. 
Though he is not equal to those who pre-existed, if they were superior to the
      likenesses, it was he alone through whom they were more exalted than those, for they are
      not from a good intent. 
It was not from the sickness which came into being that they were produced, from which
      is the good intent, but (from) the one who sought after the pre-existent. Once he had
      prayed, he both raised himself to the good and sowed in them a pre-disposition to seek and
      pray to the glorious pre-existent one, and he sowed in them a thought about him and an
      idea, so that they should think that something greater than themselves exists prior to
      them, although they did not understand what it was. Begetting harmony and mutual love
      through that thought, they acted in unity and unanimity, since from unity and from
      unanimity they have received their very being. 
They were stronger than them in the lust for power, for they were more honored than the
      first ones, who had been raised above them. Those had not humbled themselves. They thought
      about themselves that they were beings originating from themselves alone and were without
      a source. As they brought forth at first according to their own birth, the two orders
      assaulted one another, fighting for command because of their manner of being. As a result,
      they were submerged in forces and natures in accord with the condition of mutual assault,
      having lust for power and all other things of this sort. It is from these that the vain
      love of glory draws all of them to the desire of the lust for power, while none of them
      has the exalted thought nor acknowledges it. 
The powers of this thought are prepared in the works of the pre-existent <ones>,
      those of which they are the representations. For the order of those of this sort had
      mutual harmony, but it fought against the order of those of the likeness, while the order
      of those of the likeness wages war against the representations and acts against it alone,
      because of its wrath. From this it [...] them [...] one another, many [...] necessity
      appointed them [...] and might prevail [...] was not a multitude, [...] and their envy and
      their [...] and their wrath and violence and desire and prevailing ignorance produce empty
      matters and powers of various sorts, mixed in great number with one another; while the
      mind of the Logos, who was a cause of their begetting, was open to a revelation of the
      hope which would come to him from above. 
8. The Emanation of the Savior 
The Logos which moved had the hope and the expectation of him who is exalted. As for
      those of the shadow, he separated himself from them in every way, since they fight against
      him and are not at all humble before him. He was content with the beings of the thought.
      And as for the one who is set up in this way and who is within the exalted boundary,
      remembering the one who is defective, the Logos brought him forth in an invisible way,
      among those who came into being according to the thought, according to the one who was
      with them, until the light shone upon him from above as a lifegiver, the one who was
      begotten by the thought of brotherly love of the pre-existent Pleromas. 
The stumbling, which happened to the aeons of the Father of the Totalities who did not
      suffer, was brought to them, as if it were their own, in a careful and non-malicious and
      immensely sweet way. It was brought to the Totalities so that they might be instructed
      about the defect by the single one, from whom alone they all received strength to
      eliminate the defects. 
The order which was his came into being from him who ran on high and that which brought
      itself forth from him and from the entire perfection. The one who ran on high became for
      the one who was defective an intercessor with the emanation of the aeons which had come
      into being in accord with the things which exist. When he prayed to them, they consented
      joyously and willingly, since they were in agreement, and with harmonious consent, to aid
      the defective one. They gathered together, asking the Father with beneficent intent that
      there be aid from above, from the Father, for his glory, since the defective one could not
      become perfect in any other way, unless it was the will of the Pleroma of the Father,
      which he had drawn to himself, revealed, and given to the defective one. Then from the
      harmony, in a joyous willingness which had come into being, they brought forth the fruit,
      which was a begetting from the harmony, a unity, a possession of the Totalities, revealing
      the countenance of the Father, of whom the aeons thought as they gave glory and prayed for
      help for their brother with a wish in which the Father counted himself with them. Thus, it
      was willingly and gladly that they bring forth the fruit. And he made manifest the
      agreement of the revelation of his union with them, which is his beloved Son. But the Son
      in whom the Totalities are pleased put himself on them as a garment, through which he gave
      perfection to the defective one, and gave confirmation to those who are perfect, the one
      who is properly called "Savior" and "the Redeemer" and "the
      Well-Pleasing one" and "the Beloved," "the one to whom prayers have
      been offered" and "the Christ" and "the Light of those
      appointed," in accordance with the ones from whom he was brought forth, since he has
      become the names of the positions which were given to him. Yet, what other name may be
      applied to him except "the Son," as we previously said, since he is the
      knowledge of the Father, whom he wanted them to know? 
Not only did the aeons generate the countenance of the Father to whom they gave praise,
      which was written previously, but also they generated their own; for the aeons who give
      glory generated their countenance and their face. They were produced as an army for him,
      as for a king, since the beings of the thought have a powerful fellowship and an
      intermingled harmony. They came forth in a multifaceted form, in order that the one to
      whom help was to be given might see those to whom he had prayed for help. He also sees the
      one who gave it to him. 
The fruit of the agreement with him, of which we previously spoke, is subject to the
      power of the Totalities. For the Father has set the Totalities within him, both the ones
      which pre-exist and the ones which are, and the ones which will be. He was capable (of
      doing it). He revealed those which he had placed within him. He did not give them, when he
      entrusted them to him. He directed the organization of the universe according to the
      authority which was given him from the first and (according to) the power of the task.
      Thus, he began and effected his revelation. 
The one in whom the Father is and the one in whom the Totalities are <was>
      created before the one who lacked sight. He instructed him about those who searched for
      their sight, by means of the shining of that perfect light. He first perfected him in
      ineffable joy. He perfected him for himself as a perfect one and he also gave him what is
      appropriate to each individual. For this is the determination of the first joy. And
      <he> sowed in him in an invisible way a word which is destined to be knowledge. And
      he gave him power to separate and cast out from himself those who are disobedient to him.
      Thus, he made himself manifest to him. But to those who came into being because of him he
      revealed a form surpassing them. They acted in a hostile way toward one another. Suddenly
      he revealed himself to them, approaching them in the form of lightning. And in putting an
      end to the entanglement which they have with one another he stopped it by the sudden
      revelation, which they were not informed about, did not expect, and did not know of.
      Because of this, they were afraid and fell down, since they were not able to bear the
      appearance of the light which struck them. The one who appeared was an assault for the two
      orders. Just as the beings of thought had been given the name "little one," so
      they have a faint notion that they have the exalted one, he exists before them, and they
      have sown within them an attitude of amazement at the exalted one who will become
      manifest. Therefore, they welcomed his revelation and they worshipped him. They became
      convinced witnesses to <him>. They acknowledged the light which had come into being
      as one stronger than those who fought against them. The beings of the likeness, however,
      were exceedingly afraid, since they were not able to hear about him in the beginning, that
      there is a vision of this sort. Therefore they fell down to the pit of ignorance which is
      called "the Outer Darkness," and "Chaos" and "Hades" and
      "the Abyss." He set up what was beneath the order of the beings of thought, as
      it was stronger than they. They were worthy of ruling over the unspeakable darkness, since
      it is theirs and is the lot which was assigned to them. He granted them that they, too,
      should be of use for the organization which was to come, to which he had assigned them. 
There is a great difference between the revelation of the one who came into being to
      the one who was defective and to those things which are to come into being because of him.
      For he revealed himself to him within him, since he is with him, is a fellow sufferer with
      him, gives him rest little by little, makes him grow, lifts him up, gives himself to him
      completely for enjoyment from a vision. But to those who fall outside, he revealed himself
      quickly and in a striking way and he withdrew to himself suddenly without having let them
      see him. 
9. The Pleroma of the Logos 
When the Logos which was defective was illumined, his Pleroma began. He escaped those
      who had disturbed him at first. He became unmixed with them. He stripped off that arrogant
      thought. He received mingling with the Rest, when those who had been disobedient to him at
      first bent down and humbled themselves before him. And he rejoiced over the visitation of
      his brothers who had visited him. He gave glory and praise to those who had become
      manifest as a help to him, while he gave thanks, because he had escaped those who revolted
      against him, and admired and honored the greatness and those who had appeared to him in a
      determined way. He generated manifest images of the living visages, pleasing among things
      which are good, existing among the things which exist, resembling them in beauty, but
      unequal to them in truth, since they are not from an agreement with him, between the one
      who brought them forth and the one who revealed himself to him. But in wisdom and
      knowledge he acts, mingling the Logos with him(self) entirely. Therefore, those which came
      forth from him are great, just as that which is truly great. 
After he was amazed at the beauty of the ones who had appeared to him, he professed
      gratitude for this visitation. The Logos performed this activity, through those from whom
      he had received aid, for the stability of those who had come into being because of him and
      so that they might receive something good, since he thought to pray for the organization
      of all those who came forth from him, which is stabilized, so that it might make them
      established. Therefore, those whom he intentionally produced are in chariots, just as
      those who came into being, those who have appeared, so that they might pass through every
      place of things which are below, so that each one might be given the place which is
      constituted as he is. This is destruction for the beings of the likeness, yet is an act of
      beneficence for the beings of the thought, a revelation Dittography of those who
      are from the ordinance, which was a unity while suffering, while they are seeds, which
      have not come to be by themselves. 
The one who appeared was a countenance of the Father and of the harmony. He was a
      garment (composed) of every grace, and food which is for those whom the Logos brought
      forth while praying and giving glory and honor. This is the one whom he glorified and
      honored while looking to those to whom he prayed, so that he might perfect them through
      the images which he had brought forth. 
The Logos added even more to their mutual assistance and to the hope of the promise,
      since they have joy and abundant rest and undefiled pleasures. He generated those whom he
      remembered at first, when they were not with him, (he generated them) having the
      perfection. Dittography Now, while he who belongs to the vision is with him, he
      exists in hope and faith in the perfect Father, as much as the Totalities. He appears to
      him before he mingles with him, in order that the things which have come into being might
      not perish by looking upon the light, for they cannot accept the great, exalted stature. 
The thought of the Logos, who had returned to his stability and ruled over those who
      had come into being because of him, was called "Aeon" and "Place" of
      all those whom he had brought forth in accord with the ordinance, and it is also called
      "Synagogue of Salvation," because he healed him(self) from the dispersal, which
      is the multifarious thought, and returned to the single thought. Similarly, it is called
      "Storehouse," because of the rest which he obtained, giving (it) to himself
      alone. And it is also called "Bride," because of the joy of the one who gave
      himself to him in the hope of fruit from the union, and who appeared to him. It is also
      called "Kingdom," because of the stability which he received, while he rejoices
      at the domination over those who fought him. And it is called "the Joy of the
      Lord," because of the gladness in which he clothed himself. With him is the light,
      giving him recompense for the good things which are in him, and (with him is) the thought
      of freedom. 
The aeon of which we previously spoke is above the two orders of those who fight
      against one another. It is not a companion of those who hold dominion and is not
      implicated in the illnesses and weaknesses, things belonging to the thought and to the
      likeness. 
That in which the Logos set himself, perfect in joy, was an aeon, having the form of
      matter, but also having the constitution of the cause, which is the one who revealed
      himself. (The aeon was) an image of those things which are in the Pleroma, those things
      which came into being from the abundance of the enjoyment of the one who exists joyously.
      Moreover, the countenance of the one who revealed himself, was in the sincerity and the
      attentiveness and the promise concerning the things for which he asked. It had the
      designation of the Son and his essence and his power and his form, who is the one whom he
      loved and in whom he was pleased, who was entreated in a loving way. It was light and was
      a desire to be established and an openness for instruction and an eye for vision,
      qualities which it had from the exalted ones. It was also wisdom for his thinking in
      opposition to the things beneath the organization. It was also a word for speaking and the
      perfection of the things of this sort. And it is these who took form with him, but
      according to the image of the Pleroma, having their fathers who are the ones who gave them
      life, each one being a copy of each one of the faces, which are forms of maleness, since
      they are not from the illness which is femaleness, but are from this one who already has
      left behind the sickness. It has the name "the Church," for in harmony they
      resemble the harmony in the assembly of those who have revealed themselves. 
That which came into being in the image of the light, it too is perfect, inasmuch as it
      is an image of the one existing light, which is the Totalities. Even if it was inferior to
      the one of whom it is an image, nevertheless it has its indivisibility, because it is a
      countenance of the indivisible light. Those, however, who came into being in the image of
      each one of the aeons, they in essence are in the one whom we previously mentioned, but in
      power they are not equal, because it (the power) is in each of them. In this mingling with
      one another they have equality, but each one has not cast off what is peculiar to itself.
      Therefore, they are passions, for passion is sickness, since they are productions not of
      the agreement of the Pleroma, but of this one, prematurely, before he received the Father.
      Hence, the agreement with his Totality and will was something beneficial for the
      organization which was to come. It was granted them to pass through the places which are
      below, since the places are unable to accommodate their sudden, hasty coming, unless (they
      come) individually, one by one. Their coming is necessary, since by them will everything
      be perfected. 
In short, the Logos received the vision of all things, those which pre-exist, and those
      which are now, and those which will be, since he has been entrusted with the organization
      of all that which exists. Some things are already in things which are fit for coming into
      being, but the seeds which are to be he has within himself, because of the promise which
      belonged to that which he conceived, as something belonging to seeds which are to be. And
      he produced his offspring, that is, the revelation of that which he conceived. For a
      while, however, the seed of promise is guarded, so that those who have been appointed for
      a mission might be appointed by the coming of the Savior and of those who are with him,
      the ones who are first in knowledge and glory of the Father. 
10. The Organization 
It is fitting, from the prayer which he made and the conversion which occurred because
      of it, that some should perish, while others benefit, and still others be set apart. He
      first prepared the punishment of those who are disobedient, making use of a power of the
      one who appeared, the one from whom he received authority over all things, so as to be
      separate from him. He is the one who is below, and he also keeps himself apart from that
      which is exalted, until he prepares the organization of all those things which are
      external, and gives to each the place which is assigned to it. 
The Logos established him(self) at first, when he beautified the Totalities, as a basic
      principle and cause and ruler of the things which came to be, like the Father, the one who
      was the cause of the establishment, which was the first to exist after him. He created the
      pre-existent images, which he brought forth in thanks and glorification. Then he
      beautified the place of those whom he had brought forth in glory, which is called
      "Paradise" and "the Enjoyment" and "the Joy full of
      sustenance" and "the Joy," which pre-exist. And of every goodness which
      exists in the Pleroma, it preserves the image. Then he beautified the kingdom, like a city
      filled with everything pleasing, which is brotherly love and the great generosity, which
      is filled with the holy spirits and the mighty powers which govern them, which the Logos
      produced and established in power. Then (he beautified) the place of the Church which
      assembles in this place, having the form of the Church which exists in the aeons, which
      glorifies the Father. After these (he beautified) the place of the faith and obedience
      (which arises) from hope, which things the Logos received when the light appeared; then
      (he beautified the place of) the disposition, which is prayer and supplication, which were
      followed by forgiveness and the word concerning the one who would appear. 
All the spiritual places are in spiritual power. They are separate from the beings of
      the thought, since the power is established in an image, which is that which separates the
      Pleroma from the Logos, while the power which is active in prophesying about the things
      which will be, directs the beings of the thought which have come into being toward that
      which is pre-existent, and it does not permit them to mix with the things which have come
      into being through a vision of the things which are with him. 
The beings of the thought which is outside are humble; they preserve the representation
      of the pleromatic, especially because of the sharing in the names by which they are
      beautiful. 
The conversion is humble toward the beings of the thought, and the law, too, is humble
      toward them, (the law) of the judgment, which is the condemnation and the wrath. Also
      humble toward them is the power which separates those who fall below them, sends them far
      off and does not allow them to spread out over the beings of the thought and the
      conversion, which (power) consists in fear and perplexity and forgetfulness and
      astonishment and ignorance and the things which have come into being in the manner of a
      likeness, through fantasy. And these things, too, which were in fact lowly, are given the
      exalted names. There is no knowledge for those who have come forth from them with
      arrogance and lust for power and disobedience and falsehood. 
To each one he gave a name, since the two orders are in a name. Those belonging to the
      thought and those of the representation are called "the Right Ones" and
      "Psychic" and "the Fiery Ones" and "the Middle Ones." Those
      who belong to the arrogant thought and those of the likeness are called "the
      Left", "Hylic", "the Dark Ones," and "the Last." 
After the Logos established each one in his order, both the images and the
      representations and the likenesses, he kept the aeon of the images pure from all those who
      fight against it, since it is a place of joy. However, to those of the thought he revealed
      the thought which he had stripped from himself, desiring to draw them into a material
      union, for the sake of their system and dwelling place, and in order that they might also
      bring forth an impulse for diminution from their attraction to evil, so that they might
      not any more rejoice in the glory of their environment and be dissolved, but might rather
      see their sickness in which they suffer, so that they might beget love and continuous
      searching after the one who is able to heal them of the inferiority. Also over those who
      belong to the likeness, he set the word of beauty, so that he might bring them into a
      form. He also set over them the law of judgment. Again, he set over them the powers which
      the roots had produced in their lust for power. He appointed them as rulers over them, so
      that, either by the support of the word which is beautiful, or by the threat of the law,
      or by the power of lust for power, the order might be preserved from those who have
      reduced it to evil, while the Logos is pleased with them, since they are useful for the
      organization. 
The Logos knows the agreement in the lust for power of the two orders. To these and to
      all the others, he graciously granted their desire. He gave to each one the appropriate
      rank, and it was ordered that each one be a ruler over a place and an activity. He yields
      to the place of the one more exalted than himself, in order to command the other places in
      an activity which is in the allotted activity which falls to him to have control over
      because of his mode of being. As a result, there are commanders and subordinates in
      positions of domination and subjection among the angels and archangels, while the
      activities are of various types and are different. Each one of the archons with his race
      and his perquisites to which his lot has claim, just as they appeared, each was on guard,
      since they have been entrusted with the organization and none lacks a command and none is
      without kingship from the end of the heavens to the end of the earth, even to the
      foundations of the earth, and to the places beneath the earth. There are kings, there are
      lords and those who give commands, some for administering punishment, others for
      administering justice, still others for giving rest and healing, others for teaching,
      others for guarding. 
Over all the archons he appointed an Archon with no one commanding him. He is the lord
      of all of them, that is, the countenance which the Logos brought forth in his thought as a
      representation of the Father of the Totalities. Therefore, he is adorned with every
      <name> which <is> a representation of him, since he is characterized by every
      property and glorious quality. For he too is called "father" and god" and
      "demiurge" and "king" and "judge" and "place" and
      "dwelling" and "law." 
The Logos uses him as a hand, to beautify and work on the things below, and he uses him
      as a mouth, to say the things which will be prophesied. 
The things which he has spoken he does. When he saw that they were great and good and
      wonderful, he was pleased and rejoiced, as if he himself in his own thought had been the
      one to say them and do them, not knowing that the movement within him is from the spirit
      who moves him in a determined way toward those things which he wants. 
In regard to the things which came into being from him, he spoke of them, and they came
      into being as a representation of the spiritual places which we mentioned previously in
      the discussion about the images. 
Not only <did> he work, but also, as the one who is appointed as father of his
      organization, he engendered by himself and by the seeds, yet also by the spirit which is
      elect and which will descend through him to the places which are below. Not only does he
      speak spiritual words of his own, <but> in an invisible way, (he speaks) through the
      spirit which calls out and begets things greater than his own essence. 
Since in his essence he is a "god" and "father" and all the rest of
      the honorific titles, he was thinking that they were elements of his own essence. He
      established a rest for those who obey him, but for those who disobey him, he also
      established punishments. With him, too, there is a paradise and a kingdom and everything
      else which exists in the aeon which exists before him. They are more valuable than the
      imprints, because of the thought which is connected with them, which is like a shadow and
      a garment, so to speak, because he does not see in what way the things which exist
      actually do exist. 
He established workers and servants, assisting in what he will do and what he will say,
      for in every place where he worked he left his countenance in his beautiful name,
      effecting and speaking of the things which he thinks about. 
He established in his place images of the light which appeared and of those things
      which are spiritual, though they were of his own essence. For, thus they were honored in
      every place by him, being pure, from the countenance of the one who appointed them, and
      they were established: paradises and kingdoms and rests and promises and multitudes of
      servants of his will, and though they are lords of dominions, they are set beneath the one
      who is lord, the one who appointed them. 
After he listened to him in this way, properly, about the lights, which are the source
      and the system, he set them over the beauty of the things below. The invisible spirit
      moved him in this way, so that he would wish to administer through his own servant, whom
      he too used, as a hand and as a mouth and as if he were his face, (and his servant is) the
      things which he brings, order and threat and fear, in order that those with whom he has
      done what is ignorant might despise the order which was given for them to keep, since they
      are fettered in the bonds of the archons, which are on them securely. 
The whole establishment of matter is divided into three. The strong powers which the
      spiritual Logos brought forth from fantasy and arrogance, he established in the first
      spiritual rank. Then those (powers) which these produced by their lust for power, he set
      in the middle area, since they are powers of ambition, so that they might exercise
      dominion and give commands with compulsion and force to the establishment which is beneath
      them. Those which came into being through envy and jealousy, and all the other offspring
      from dispositions of this sort, he set in a servile order controlling the extremities,
      commanding all those which exist and all (the realm of) generation, from whom come rapidly
      destroying illnesses, who eagerly desire begetting, who are something in the place where
      they are from and to which they will return. And therefore, he appointed over them
      authoritative powers, acting continuously on matter, in order that the offspring of those
      which exist might also exist continuously. For this is their glory. 
Part II 
11. The Creation of Material Humanity 
The matter which flows through its form (is) a cause by which the invisibility which
      exists through the powers [...] for them all, for [...], as they beget before them and
      destroy. 
The thought which is set between those of the right and those of the left is a power of
      begetting. All those which the first ones will wish to make, so to speak, a projection of
      theirs, like a shadow cast from and following a body, those things which are the roots of
      the visible creations, namely, the entire preparation of the adornment of the images and
      representations and likenesses, have come into being because of those who need education
      and teaching and formation, so that the smallness might grow, little by little, as through
      a mirror image. For it was for this reason that he created mankind at the end, having
      first prepared and provided for him the things which he had created for his sake. 
Like that of all else is the creation of mankind as well. The spiritual Logos moved him
      invisibly, as he perfected him through the Demiurge and his angelic servants, who shared
      in the act of fashioning in multitudes, when he took counsel with his archons. Like a
      shadow is earthly man, so that he might be like those who are cut off from the Totalities.
      Also he is something prepared by all of them, those of the right and those of the left,
      since each one in the orders gives a form to the [...] in which it exists. 
The [...] which the Logos who was defective brought forth, who was in the sickness, did
      not resemble him, because he brought it forth forgetfully, ignorantly, and defectively,
      and in all the other weak ways, although the Logos gave the first form through the
      Demiurge out of ignorance, so that he would learn that the exalted one exists, and would
      know that he needs him. This is what the prophet called "Living Spirit" and
      "Breath of the exalted aeons" and "the Invisible," and this is the
      living soul which has given life to the power which was dead at first. For that which is
      dead is ignorance. 
It is fitting that we explain about the soul of the first human being, that it is from
      the spiritual Logos, while the creator thinks that it is his, since it is from him, as
      from a mouth through which one breathes. The creator also sent down souls from his
      substance, since he, too, has a power of procreation, because he is something which has
      come into being from the representation of the Father. Also those of the left brought
      forth, as it were, men of their own, since they have the likeness of <being>. 
The spiritual substance is a single thing and a single representation, and its weakness
      is the determination in many forms. As for the substance of the psychics, its
      determination is double, since it has the knowledge and the confession of the exalted one,
      and it is not inclined to evil, because of the inclination of the thought. As for the
      material substance, its way is different and in many forms, and it was a weakness which
      existed in many types of inclination. 
The first human being is a mixed formation, and a mixed creation, and a deposit of
      those of the left and those of the right, and a spiritual word whose attention is divided
      between each of the two substances from which he takes his being. Therefore, it is said
      that a paradise was planted for him, so that he might eat of the food of three kinds of
      tree, since it is a garden of the threefold order, and since it is that which gives
      enjoyment. 
The noble elect substance which is in him was more exalted. It created and it did not
      wound them. Therefore they issued a command, making a threat and bringing upon him a great
      danger, which is death. Only the enjoyment of the things which are evil did he allow him
      to taste, and from the other tree with the double (fruit) he did not allow him to eat,
      much less from the tree of life, so that they would not acquire honor [...] them, and so
      that they would not be [...] by the evil power which is called "the serpent."
      And he is more cunning than all the evil powers. He led man astray through the
      determination of those things which belong to the thought and the desires. <He> made
      him transgress the command, so that he would die. And he was expelled from every enjoyment
      of that place. 
This is the expulsion which was made for him, when he was expelled from the enjoyments
      of the things which belong to the likeness and those of the representation. It was a work
      of providence, so that it might be found that it is a short time until man will receive
      the enjoyment of the things which are eternally good, in which is the place of rest. This
      the spirit ordained when he first planned that man should experience the great evil, which
      is death, that is complete ignorance of the Totality, and that he should experience all
      the evils which come from this and, after the deprivations and cares which are in these,
      that he should receive of the greatest good, which is life eternal, that is, firm
      knowledge of the Totalities and the reception of all good things. Because of the
      transgression of the first man, death ruled. It was accustomed to slay every man in the
      manifestation of its domination, which had been given it as a kingdom because of the
      organization of the Father's will, of which we spoke previously. 
Part III 
12. The Variety of Theologies 
If both the orders, those on the right and those on the left, are brought together with
      one another by the thought which is set between them, which gives them their organization
      with each other, it happens that they both act with the same emulation of their deeds,
      with those of the right resembling those of the left, and those of the left resembling
      those of the right. And if at times the evil order begins to do evil in a foolish way, the
      <wise> order emulates, in the form of a man of violence, also doing what is evil, as
      if it were a power of a man of violence. At other times the foolish order attempts to do
      good, making itself like it, since the hidden order, too, is zealous to do it. Just as it
      is in the things which are established, so (it is) in the things which have come to be.
      Since they bring things unlike one another, those who were not instructed were unable to
      know the cause of the things which exist. Therefore, they have introduced other types (of
      explanation), some saying that it is according to providence that the things which exist
      have their being. These are the people who observe the stability and the conformity of the
      movement of creation. Others say that it is something alien. These are people who observe
      the diversity and the lawlessness and the evil of the powers. Others say that the things
      which exist are what is destined to happen. These are the people who were occupied with
      this matter. Others say that it is something in accordance with nature. Others say that it
      is a self-existent. The majority, however, all who have reached as far as the visible
      elements, do not know anything more than them. 
Those who were wise among the Greeks and the barbarians have advanced to the powers
      which have come into being by way of imagination and vain thought. Those who have come
      from these, in accord with the mutual conflict and rebellious manner active in them, also
      spoke in a likely, arrogant and imaginary way concerning the things which they thought of
      as wisdom, although the likeness deceived them, since they thought that they had attained
      the truth, when they had (only) attained error. (They did so) not simply in minor
      appellations, but the powers themselves seem to hinder them, as if they were the Totality.
      Therefore, the order was caught up in fighting itself alone, because of the arrogant
      hostility of one of the offspring of the archon who is superior, who exists before him.
      Therefore, nothing was in agreement with its fellows, nothing, neither philosophy nor
      types of medicine nor types of rhetoric nor types of music nor types of logic, but they
      are opinions and theories. Ineffability held sway in confusion, because of the
      indescribable quality of those who hold sway, who give them thoughts. 
Now, as for the things which came forth from the <race> of the Hebrews, things
      which are written by the hylics who speak in the fashion of the Greeks, the powers of
      those who think about all of them, so to speak, the "right ones," the powers
      which move them all to think of words and a representation, they <brought> them, and
      they grasped so as to attain the truth and used the confused powers which act in them.
      Afterwards they attained to the order of the unmixed ones, the one which is established,
      the unity which exists as a representation of the representation of the Father. It is not
      invisible in its nature, but a wisdom envelops it, so that it might preserve the form of
      the truly invisible one. Therefore, many angels have not been able to see it. Also, other
      men of the Hebrew race, of whom we already spoke, namely the righteous ones and the
      prophets, did not think of anything and did not say anything from imagination or through a
      likeness or from esoteric thinking, but each one by the power which was at work in him,
      and while listening to the things which he saw and heard, spoke of them in [...]. They
      have a unified harmony with one another after the manner of those who worked in them,
      since they preserve the connection and the mutual harmony primarily by the confession of
      the one more exalted than they. And there is one who is greater than they, who was
      appointed since they have need of him, and whom the spiritual Logos begot along with them
      as one who needs the exalted one, in hope and expectation in accord with the thought which
      is the seed of salvation. And he is an illuminating word, which consists of the thought
      and his offspring and his emanations. Since the righteous ones and the prophets, whom we
      have previously mentioned, preserve the confession and the testimony concerning the one
      who is great, made by their fathers who were looking for the hope and the hearing, in them
      is sown the seed of prayer and the searching, which is sown in many who have searched for
      strengthening. It appears and draws them to love the exalted one, to proclaim these things
      as pertaining to a unity. And it was a unity which worked in them when they spoke. Their
      vision and their words do not differ because of the multitude of those who have given them
      the vision and the word. Therefore, those who have listened to what they have said
      concerning this do not reject any of it, but have accepted the scriptures in an altered
      way. By interpreting them, they established many heresies which exist to the present among
      the Jews. Some say that God is one, who made a proclamation in the ancient scriptures.
      Others say that he is many. Some say that God is simple and was a single mind in nature.
      Others say that his activity is linked with the establishment of good and evil. Still
      others say that he is the creator of that which has come into being. Still others say that
      it was by the angels that he created. 
The multitude of ideas of this sort is the multitude of forms and the abundance of
      types of scripture, that which produced their teachers of the Law. The prophets, however,
      did not say anything of their own accord, but each one of them (spoke) of the things which
      he had seen and heard through the proclamation of the Savior. This is what he proclaimed,
      with the main subject of their proclamation being that which each said concerning the
      coming of the Savior, which is this coming. Sometimes the prophets speak about it as if it
      will be. Sometimes (it is) as if the Savior speaks from their mouths, saying that the
      Savior will come and show favor to those who have not known him. They have not all joined
      with one another in confessing anything, but each one, on the basis of the thing from
      which he received power to speak about him, and on the basis of the place which he saw,
      thinks that it is from it that he will be begotten, and that he will come from that place.
      Not one of them knew whence he would come nor by whom he would be begotten, but he alone
      is the one of whom it is worthy to speak, the one who will be begotten and will suffer.
      Concerning that which he previously was and that which he is eternally - an unbegotten,
      impassible one from the Logos, who came into being in flesh - he did not come into their
      thought. And this is the account which they received an impulse to give concerning his
      flesh which was to appear. They say that it is a production from all of them, but that
      before all things it is from the spiritual Logos, who is the cause of the things which
      have come into being, from whom the Savior received his flesh. He had conceived <it>
      at the revelation of the light, according to the word of the promise, at his revelation
      from the seminal state. For the one who exists is not a seed of the things which exist,
      since he was begotten at the end. But to the one by whom the Father ordained the
      manifestation of salvation, who is the fulfillment of the promise, to him belonged all
      these instruments for entry into life, through which he descended. His Father is one, and
      alone is truly a father to him, the invisible, unknowable, the incomprehensible in his
      nature, who alone is God in his will and his form, who has granted that he might be seen,
      known, and comprehended. 
13. The Incarnate Savior and his Companions 
He it is who was our Savior in willing compassion, who is that which they were. For it
      was for their sake that he became manifest in an involuntary suffering. They became flesh
      and soul, that is, eternally which (things) hold them and with corruptible things they
      die. And as for those who came into being, the invisible one taught them invisibly about
      himself. 
Not only did he take upon <himself> the death of those whom he thought to save,
      but he also accepted their smallness to which they had descended when they were
      <born> in body and soul. (He did so) because he had let himself be conceived and
      born as an infant, in body and soul. 
Among all the others who shared in them, and those who fell and received the light, he
      came into being exalted, because he had let himself be conceived without sin, stain and
      defilement. He was begotten in life, being in life because the former and the latter are
      in passion and changing opinion from the Logos who moved, who established them to be body
      and soul. He it is <who> has taken to himself the one who came from those whom we
      previously mentioned. 
He came into being from the glorious vision and the unchanging thought of the Logos who
      returned to himself, after his movement, from the organization, just as those who came
      with him took body and soul and a confirmation and stability and judgment of things. They
      too intended to come. 
When they thought of the Savior they came, and they came when he knew; they also came
      more exalted in the emanation according to the flesh than those who had been brought forth
      from a defect, because in this way they, too, received their bodily emanation, along with
      the body of the Savior, through the revelation and the mingling with him. These others
      were those of one substance, and it indeed is the spiritual (substance). The organization
      is different. This is one thing, that is another. Some come forth from passion and
      division, needing healing. Others are from prayer, so that they heal the sick, when they
      have been appointed to treat those who have fallen. These are the apostles and the
      evangelists. They are the disciples of the Savior, and teachers who need instruction. Why,
      then, did they, too, share in the passions in which those who have been brought forth from
      passion share, if indeed they are bodily productions in accordance with the organization
      and <the> Savior, who did not share in the passions? 
The Savior was an image of the unitary one, he who is the Totality in bodily form.
      Therefore, he preserved the form of indivisibility, from which comes impassability. They,
      however, are images of each thing which became manifest. Therefore, they assume division
      from the pattern, having taken form for the planting which exists beneath the heaven. This
      also is what shares in the evil which exists in the places which they have reached. For
      the will held the Totality under sin, so that by that will he might have mercy on the
      Totality and they might be saved, while a single one alone is appointed to give life, and
      all the rest need salvation. Therefore, it was from (reasons) of this sort that it began
      to receive grace to give the honors which were proclaimed by Jesus, which were suitable
      for him to proclaim to the rest, since a seed of the promise of Jesus Christ was set up,
      whom we have served in (his) revelation and union. Now the promise possessed the
      instruction and the return to what they are from the first, from which they possess the
      drop, so as to return to him, which is that which is called "the redemption."
      And it is the release from the captivity and the acceptance of freedom. In its places, the
      captivity of those who were slaves of ignorance holds sway. The freedom is the knowledge
      of the truth which existed before the ignorance was ruling, forever without beginning and
      without end, being something good, and a salvation of things, and a release from the
      servile nature in which they have suffered. 
Those who have been brought forth in a lowly thought of vanity, that is, (a thought)
      which goes to things which are evil through the thought which draws them down to the lust
      for power, these have received the possession which is freedom, from the abundance of the
      grace which looked upon the children. It was, however, a disturbance of the passion and a
      destruction of those things which he cast off from himself at first, when the Logos
      separated them from himself, (the Logos) who was the cause of their being destined for
      destruction, though he kept <them> at <the> end of the organization and
      allowed them to exist because even they were useful for the things which were ordained. 
14. The Tripartition of Mankind 
Mankind came to be in three essential types, the spiritual, the psychic, and the
      material, conforming to the triple disposition of the Logos, from which were brought forth
      the material ones and the psychic ones and the spiritual ones. Each of the three essential
      types is known by its fruit. And they were not known at first but only at the coming of
      the Savior, who shone upon the saints and revealed what each was. 
The spiritual race, being like light from light and like spirit from spirit, when its
      head appeared, it ran toward him immediately. It immediately became a body of its head. It
      suddenly received knowledge in the revelation. The psychic race is like light from a fire,
      since it hesitated to accept knowledge of him who appeared to it. (It hesitated) even more
      to run toward him in faith. Rather, through a voice it was instructed, and this was
      sufficient, since it is not far from the hope according to the promise, since it received,
      so to speak as a pledge, the assurance of the things which were to be. The material race,
      however, is alien in every way; since it is dark, it shuns the shining of the light,
      because its appearance destroys it. And since it has not received its unity, it is
      something excessive and hateful toward the Lord at his revelation. 
The spiritual race will receive complete salvation in every way. The material will
      receive destruction in every way, just as one who resists him. The psychic race, since it
      is in the middle when it is brought forth and also when it is created, is double according
      to its determination for both good and evil. It takes its appointed departure suddenly and
      its complete escape to those who are good. Those whom the Logos brought forth in
      accordance with the first element of his thought, when he remembered the exalted one and
      prayed for salvation, have salvation suddenly. They will be saved completely because of
      the salvific thought. As he was brought forth, so, too, were these brought forth from him,
      whether angels or men. In accordance with the confession that there is one who is more
      exalted than themselves, and in accordance with the prayer and the search for him, they
      also will attain the salvation of those who have been brought forth, since they are from
      the disposition which is good. They were appointed for service in proclaiming the coming
      of the Savior who was to be and his revelation which had come. Whether angels or men, when
      he was sent as a service to them, they received, in fact, the essence of their being.
      Those, however, who are from the thought of lust for power, who have come into being from
      the blow of those who fight against him, those whom the thought brought forth, from these,
      since they are mixed, they will receive their end suddenly. Those who will be brought
      forth from the lust for power which is given to them for a time and for certain periods,
      and who will give glory to the Lord of glory, and who will relinquish their wrath, they
      will receive the reward for their humility, which is to remain forever. Those, however,
      who are proud because of the desire of ambition, and who love temporary glory, and who
      forget that it was only for certain periods and times which they have that they were
      entrusted with power, and for this reason did not acknowledge that the Son of God is the
      Lord of all and Savior, and were not brought out of wrath and the resemblance to the evil
      ones, they will receive judgment for their ignorance and their senselessness, which is
      suffering, along with those who went astray, anyone of them who turned away; and even more
      (for) wickedness in doing to the Lord things which were not fitting, which the powers of
      the left did to him, even including his death. They persevered saying, "We shall
      become rulers of the universe, if the one who has been proclaimed king of the universe is
      slain," (they said this) when they labored to do this, namely the men and angels who
      are not from the good disposition of the right ones but from the mixture. And they first
      chose for themselves honor, though it was only a temporary wish and desire, while the path
      to eternal rest is by way of humility for salvation of those who will be saved, those of
      the right ones. After they confess the Lord and the thought of that which is pleasing to
      the church and the song of those who are humble along with her to the full extent
      possible, in that which is pleasing to do for her, in sharing in her sufferings and her
      pains in the manner of those who understand what is good for the church, they will have a
      share in her hope. This is to be said on the subject of how men and angels who are from
      the order of the left have a path to error: not only did they deny the Lord and plot evil
      against him, but also toward the Church did they direct their hatred and envy and
      jealousy; and this is the reason for the condemnation of those who have moved and have
      aroused themselves for the trials of the Church. 
15. The Process of Restoration 
The election shares body and essence with the Savior, since it is like a bridal chamber
      because of its unity and its agreement with him. For, before every place, the Christ came
      for her sake. The calling, however, has the place of those who rejoice at the bridal
      chamber, and who are glad and happy at the union of the bridegroom and the bride. The
      place which the calling will have is the aeon of the images, where the Logos has not yet
      joined with the Pleroma. And since the man of the Church was happy and glad at this, as he
      was hoping for it, he separated spirit, soul, and body in the organization of the one who
      thinks that he is a unity, though within him is the man who is the Totality - and he is
      all of them. And, though he has the escape from the [...] which the places will receive,
      he also has the members about which we spoke earlier. When the redemption was proclaimed,
      the perfect man received knowledge immediately, so as to return in haste to his unitary
      state, to the place from which he came, to return there joyfully, to the place from which
      he came, to the place from which he flowed forth. His members, however, needed a place of
      instruction, which is in the places which are adorned, so that they might receive from
      them resemblance to the images and archetypes, like a mirror, until all the members of the
      body of the Church are in a single place and receive the restoration at one time, when
      they have been manifested as the whole body, namely the restoration into the Pleroma. It
      has a preliminary concord with a mutual agreement, which is the concord which belongs to
      the Father, until the Totalities receive a countenance in accordance with him. The
      restoration is at the end, after the Totality reveals what it is, the Son, who is the
      redemption, that is, the path toward the incomprehensible Father, that is, the return to
      the pre-existent, and (after) the Totalities reveal themselves in that one, in the proper
      way, who is the inconceivable one and the ineffable one, and the invisible one and the
      incomprehensible one, so that it receives redemption. It was not only release from the
      domination of the left ones, nor was it only escape from the power of those of the right,
      to each of which we thought that were slaves and sons, from whom none escapes without
      quickly becoming theirs again, but the redemption also is an ascent to the degrees which
      are in the Pleroma and to those who have named themselves and who conceive of themselves
      according to the power of each of the aeons, and (it is) an entrance into what is silent,
      where there is no need for voice nor for knowing, nor for forming a concept, nor for
      illumination, but (where) all things are light, while they do not need to be illumined. 
Not only do humans need redemption, but also the angels, too, need redemption, along
      with the image and the rest of the Pleromas of the aeons and the wondrous powers of
      illumination. So that we might not be in doubt in regard to the others, even the Son
      himself, who has the position of redeemer of the Totality, needed redemption as well, - he
      who had become man, - since he gave himself for each thing which we need, we in the flesh,
      who are his Church. Now, when he first received redemption from the word which had
      descended upon him, all the rest received redemption from him, namely those who had taken
      him to themselves. For those who received the one who had received (redemption) also
      received what was in him. 
Among the men who are in the flesh redemption began to be given, his first-born, and
      his love, the Son who was incarnate, while the angels who are in heaven asked to
      associate, so that they might form an association with him upon the earth. Therefore, he
      is called "the Redemption of the angels of the Father," he who comforted those
      who were laboring under the Totality for his knowledge, because he was given the grace
      before anyone else. 
The Father had foreknowledge of him, since he was in his thought before anything came
      into being, and since he had those to whom he has revealed him. He set the deficiency on
      the one who remains for certain periods and times, as a glory for his Pleroma, since the
      fact that he is unknown is a cause of his production from his agreement [...] of him. Just
      as reception of knowledge of him is a manifestation of his lack of envy and the revelation
      of the abundance of his sweetness, which is the second glory, so, too, he has been found
      to be a cause of ignorance, although he is also a begetter of knowledge. 
In a hidden and incomprehensible wisdom he kept the knowledge to the end, until the
      Totalities became weary while searching for God the Father, whom no one found through his
      own wisdom or power. He gives himself, so that they might receive knowledge of the
      abundant thought about his great glory, which he has given, and (about) the cause, which
      he has given, which is his unceasing thanksgiving, he who, from the immobility of his
      counsel, reveals himself eternally to those who have been worthy of the Father, who is
      unknown in his nature, so that they might receive knowledge of him, through his desire
      that they should come to experience the ignorance and its pains. 
Those of whom he first thought that they should attain knowledge and the good things
      which are in it, they were planning - which is the wisdom of the Father, - that they might
      experience the evil things and might train themselves in them, as a [...] for a time, so
      that they might receive the enjoyment of good things for eternity. They hold change and
      persistent renunciation and the cause of those who fight against them as an adornment and
      marvelous quality of those who are exalted, so that it is manifest that the ignorance of
      those who will be ignorant of the Father was something of their own. He who gave them
      knowledge of him was one of his powers for enabling them to grasp that knowledge in the
      fullest sense is called "the knowledge of all that which is thought of" and
      "the treasure" and "the addition for the increase of knowledge,"
      "the revelation of those things which were known at first," and "the path
      toward harmony and toward the pre-existent one," which is the increase of those who
      have abandoned the greatness which was theirs in the organization of the will, so that the
      end might be like the beginning. 
As for the baptism which exists in the fullest sense, into which the Totalities will
      descend and in which they will be, there is no other baptism apart from this one alone,
      which is the redemption into God, Father, Son and Holy Spirit, when confession is made
      through faith in those names, which are a single name of the gospel, when they have come
      to believe what has been said to them, namely that they exist. From this they have their
      salvation, those who have believed that they exist. This is attaining in an invisible way
      to the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit in an undoubting faith. And when they have borne
      witness to them, it is also with a firm hope that they attained them, so that the return
      to them might become the perfection of those who have believed in them and (so that) the
      Father might be one with them, the Father, the God, whom they have confessed in faith and
      who gave (them) their union with him in knowledge. 
The baptism which we previously mentioned is called "garment of those who do not
      strip themselves of it," for those who will put it on and those who have received
      redemption wear it. It is also called "the confirmation of the truth which has no
      fall." In an unwavering and immovable way it grasps those who have received the
      restoration while they grasp it. (Baptism) is called "silence" because of the
      quiet and the tranquility. It is also called "bridal chamber" because of the
      agreement and the indivisible state of those who know they have known him. It is also
      called "the light which does not set and is without flame," since it does not
      give light, but those who have worn it are made into light. They are the ones whom he
      wore. (Baptism) is also called "the eternal life," which is immortality; and it
      is called "that which is, entirely, simply, in the proper sense, what is pleasing,
      inseparably and irremovably and faultlessly and imperturbably, for the one who exists for
      those who have received a beginning." For, what else is there to name it apart from
      "God," since it is the Totalities, that is, even if it is given numberless
      names, they are spoken simply as a reference to it. Just as he transcends every word, and
      he transcends every voice, and he transcends every mind, and he transcends everything, and
      he transcends every silence, so it is Dittography with those who are that which he
      is. This is that which they find it to be, ineffably and inconceivably in (its) visage,
      for the coming into being in those who know, through him whom they have comprehended, who
      is the one to whom they gave glory. 
16. Redemption of the Calling 
Even if on the matter of the election there are many more things for us to say, as it
      is fitting to say, nonetheless, on the matter of those of the calling - for those of the
      right are so named - it is necessary for us to return once again to them, and it is not
      profitable for us to forget them. We have spoken about them, - If there is enough in what
      preceded at some length, how have we spoken? In a partial way, - since I said about all
      those who came forth from the Logos, either from the judgment of the evil ones or from the
      wrath which fights against them and the turning away from them, which is the return to the
      exalted ones, or from the prayer and the remembrance of those who pre-existed, or from
      hope and faith that they would receive their salvation from good work, since they have
      been deemed worthy because they are beings from the good dispositions, (that) they have
      cause of their begetting which is an opinion from the one who exists. Still further (I
      said) that before the Logos concerned himself with them in an invisible way, willingly,
      the exalted one added to this thought, because they were in need of him, who was the cause
      of their being. They did not exalt themselves when they were saved, as if there were
      nothing existing before them, but they confess that they have a beginning to their
      existence, and they desire this: to know him who exists before them. Most of all (I said)
      that they worshipped the revelation of the light in the form of lightning, and they bore
      witness that it appeared as <their> salvation. 
Not only those who have come forth from the Logos, about whom alone we said that they
      would accomplish the good work, but also those whom these brought forth according to the
      good dispositions will share in the repose according to the abundance of the grace. Also
      those who have been brought forth from the desire of lust for power, having the seed in
      them which is the lust for power, will receive the reward for (their) good deeds, namely
      those who acted and those who have the predisposition toward the good, if they
      intentionally desire and wish to abandon the vain, temporal ambition, and they keep the
      commandment of the Lord of glory, instead of the momentary honor, and inherit the eternal
      kingdom. 
Now, it is necessary that we unite the causes and the effects on them of the grace and
      the impulses, since it is fitting that we say what we mentioned previously about the
      salvation of all those of the right, of all those unmixed and those mixed, to join them
      with one another. And as for the repose, which is the revelation of the form <in>
      which they believed, (it is necessary) that we should treat it with a suitable discussion.
      For when we confessed the kingdom which is in Christ, <we> escaped from the whole
      multiplicity of forms, and from inequality and change. For the end will receive a unitary
      existence, just as the beginning is unitary, where there is no male nor female, nor slave
      and free, nor circumcision and uncircumcision, neither angel nor man, but Christ is all in
      all. What is the form of the one who did not exist at first? It will be found that he will
      exist. And what is the nature of the one who was a slave? He will take a place with a free
      man. For they will receive the vision more and more by nature and not only by a little
      word, so as to believe, only through a voice, that this is the way it is, that the
      restoration to that which used to be is a unity. Even if some are exalted because of the
      organization, since they have been appointed as causes of the things which have come into
      being, since they are more active as natural forces, and since they are desired because of
      these things, angels and men will receive the kingdom and the confirmation and the
      salvation. These, then, are the causes. 
About the <one> who appeared in flesh, they believed without any doubt that he is
      the Son of the unknown God, who was not previously spoken of, and who could not be seen.
      They abandoned their gods whom they had previously worshipped, and the lords who are in
      heaven and on earth. Before he had taken them up, and while he was still a child, they
      testified that he had already begun to preach. And when he was in the tomb as a dead man
      the angels thought that he was alive, receiving life from the one who had died. They first
      desired their numerous services and wonders, which were in the temple on their behalf, to
      be performed continuously <as> the confession. That is, it can be done on their
      behalf through their approach to him. 
That preparation which they did not accept, they rejected, because of the one who had
      not been sent from that place, but they granted to Christ, of whom they thought that he
      exists in that place from which they had come along with him, a place of gods and lords
      whom they served, worshipped, and ministered to, in the names which they had received on
      loan. - They were given to the one who is designated by them properly. - However, after
      his assumption, they had the experience to know that he is their Lord, over whom no one
      else is lord. They gave him their kingdoms; they rose from their thrones; they were kept
      from their crowns. He, however, revealed himself to them, for the reasons which we have
      already spoken of: their salvation and the return to a good thought until [...] companion
      and the angels [...], and the abundance of good which they did with it. Thus, they were
      entrusted with the services which benefit the elect, bringing their iniquity up to heaven.
      They tested them eternally for the lack of humility from the inerrancy of the creation,
      continuing on their behalf until all come to life and leave life, while their bodies
      remain on earth, serving all their [...], sharing with them in their sufferings and
      persecutions and tribulations, which were brought upon the saints in every place. 
As for the servants of the evil <one>, though evil is worthy of destruction, they
      are in [...]. But because of the [...] which is above all the worlds, which is their good
      thought and the fellowship, the Church will remember them as good friends and faithful
      servants, once she has received redemption from the one who gives requital. Then the grace
      which is in the bridal chamber and [...] in her house [...] in this thought of the giving
      and the one who [...] Christ is the one with her and the expectation of the Father of the
      Totality, since she will produce for them angels as guides and servants. 
They will think pleasant thoughts. They are services for her. She will give them their
      requital for all that which the aeons will think about. He is an emanation from them, so
      that, just as Christ did his will which he brought forth and exalted the greatnesses of
      the Church and gave them to her, so will she be a thought for these. And to men he gives
      their eternal dwelling places, in which they will dwell, leaving behind the attraction
      toward the defect, while the power of the Pleroma pulls them up in the greatness of the
      generosity and the sweetness of the aeon which pre-exists. This is the nature of the
      entire begetting of those whom he had when he shone on them in a light which he revealed
      [...]. Just as his [...] which will be [...], so too his lord, while the change alone is
      in those who have changed. 
(6 lines missing)
... which [...] by him [...] said, while the hylics will remain until the end for
      destruction, since they will not give forth for their names, if they would return once
      again to that which will not be. As they were [...] they were not [...] but they were of
      use (in the) time that they were (in it) among them, although they were not [...] at
      first. If [...] to do something else concerning the control which they have of the
      preparation, [...] before them. - For though I continually use these words, I have not
      understood his meaning. - Some elders [...] him greatness. 
(6 lines missing)
... all [...] angels [...] word and the sound of a trumpet, he will proclaim the great
      complete amnesty from the beauteous east, in the bridal chamber, which is the love of God
      the Father [...], according to the power which [...] of the greatness [...], the sweetness
      of the [...] of him, since he reveals himself to the greatnesses [...] his goodness [...]
      the praise, the dominion, and the glory through [...] the Lord, the Savior, the Redeemer
      of all those belonging to the one filled with Love, through his Holy Spirit, from now
      through all generations forever and ever. Amen. 
This translation was made by Harold W. Attridge and Dieter Mueller, excerpted from The Nag Hammadi Library in English edited by James M. Robinson, and transcribed for online publication originally at the Gnostic Society Library (gnosis.org).
