
The Sayings Gospel Q











The Text of Q
Q [NRSV] (Text according to Funk/Miller)
 
3:7-9 John said to the crowds that came out to be baptized by him, "You
brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come?  
8 Bear fruits worthy of repentance. Do not begin to say to yourselves,
`We have Abraham as our ancestor'; for I tell you, God is able from these
stones to raise up children to Abraham.   9 Even now the ax is
lying at the root of the trees; every tree therefore that does not bear
good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire."
3:16-17 John answered all of them by saying, "I baptize you with water;
but one who is more powerful than I is coming; I am not worthy to untie
the thong of his sandals. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and
fire.   17 His winnowing fork is in his hand, to clear his threshing
floor and to gather the wheat into his granary; but the chaff he will burn
with unquenchable fire."
4:1-13 Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and
was led by the Spirit in the wilderness,   2 where for forty
days he was tempted by the devil. He ate nothing at all during those days,
and when they were over, he was famished.   3 The devil said
to him, "If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become a loaf
of bread."   4 Jesus answered him, "It is written, `One does
not live by bread alone.'"   5 Then the devil led him up and
showed him in an instant all the kingdoms of the world.   6 And
the devil said to him, "To you I will give their glory and all this authority;
for it has been given over to me, and I give it to anyone I please.  
7 If you, then, will worship me, it will all be yours."   8 Jesus
answered him, "It is written, `Worship the Lord your God, and serve only
him.'"   9 Then the devil took him to Jerusalem, and placed him
on the pinnacle of the temple, saying to him, "If you are the Son of God,
throw yourself down from here,   10 for it is written, `He will
command his angels concerning you, to protect you,'   11 and
`On their hands they will bear you up, so that you will not dash your foot
against a stone.'"   12 Jesus answered him, "It is said, `Do
not put the Lord your God to the test.'"   13 When the devil
had finished every test, he departed from him until an opportune time.
6:12, 17, 20 Now during those days he went out to the mountain to pray;
and he spent the night in prayer to God.    17 He came down
with them and stood on a level place, with a great crowd of his disciples
and a great multitude of people from all Judea, Jerusalem, and the coast
of Tyre and Sidon.    20 Then he looked up at his disciples
and said:
6:20-26 "Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.  
21  "Blessed are you who are hungry now, for you will be filled. "Blessed
are you who weep now, for you will laugh.   22  "Blessed
are you when people hate you, and when they exclude you, revile you, and
defame you on account of the Son of Man.   23 Rejoice in that
day and leap for joy, for surely your reward is great in heaven; for that
is what their ancestors did to the prophets.   24  "But
woe to you who are rich, for you have received your consolation.  
25  "Woe to you who are full now, for you will be hungry. "Woe to
you who are laughing now, for you will mourn and weep.   26 
"Woe to you when all speak well of you, for that is what their ancestors
did to the false prophets.
6:27-36 "But I say to you that listen, Love your enemies, do good to
those who hate you,   28 bless those who curse you, pray for
those who abuse you.   29 If anyone strikes you on the cheek,
offer the other also; and from anyone who takes away your coat do not withhold
even your shirt.   30 Give to everyone who begs from you; and
if anyone takes away your goods, do not ask for them again.  
31 Do to others as you would have them do to you.   32 
"If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners
love those who love them.   33 If you do good to those who do
good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same.  
34 If you lend to those from whom you hope to receive, what credit is that
to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, to receive as much again.  
35 But love your enemies, do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return.
Your reward will be great, and you will be children of the Most High; for
he is kind to the ungrateful and the wicked.   36 Be merciful,
just as your Father is merciful.
6:37-38 "Do not judge, and you will not be judged; do not condemn, and
you will not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven;  
38 give, and it will be given to you. A good measure, pressed down, shaken
together, running over, will be put into your lap; for the measure you
give will be the measure you get back."
6:39-40 He also told them a parable: "Can a blind person guide a blind
person? Will not both fall into a pit?   40 A disciple is not
above the teacher, but everyone who is fully qualified will be like the
teacher.
6:41-42 Why do you see the speck in your neighbor's eye, but do not
notice the log in your own eye?   42 Or how can you say to your
neighbor, `Friend, let me take out the speck in your eye,' when you yourself
do not see the log in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out
of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of
your neighbor's eye.
6:43-45 "No good tree bears bad fruit, nor again does a bad tree bear
good fruit;   44 for each tree is known by its own fruit. Figs
are not gathered from thorns, nor are grapes picked from a bramble bush.  
45 The good person out of the good treasure of the heart produces good,
and the evil person out of evil treasure produces evil; for it is out of
the abundance of the heart that the mouth speaks.
6:46-49 "Why do you call me `Lord, Lord,' and do not do what I tell
you?   47 I will show you what someone is like who comes to me,
hears my words, and acts on them.   48   That one is
like a man building a house, who dug deeply and laid the foundation on
rock; when a flood arose, the river burst against that house but could
not shake it, because it had been well built.   49 But the one
who hears and does not act is like a man who built a house on the ground
without a foundation. When the river burst against it, immediately it fell,
and great was the ruin of that house."
7:1-10 After Jesus had finished all his sayings in the hearing of the
people, he entered Capernaum.   2 A centurion there had a slave
whom he valued highly, and who was ill and close to death.  
3 When he heard about Jesus, he sent some Jewish elders to him, asking
him to come and heal his slave.   4 When they came to Jesus,
they appealed to him earnestly, saying, "He is worthy of having you do
this for him,   5 for he loves our people, and it is he who built
our synagogue for us."   6 And Jesus went with them, but when
he was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to say to him,
"Lord, do not trouble yourself, for I am not worthy to have you come under
my roof;   7 therefore I did not presume to come to you. But
only speak the word, and let my servant be healed.   8 For I
also am a man set under authority, with soldiers under me; and I say to
one, `Go,' and he goes, and to another, `Come,' and he comes, and to my
slave, `Do this,' and the slave does it."   9 When Jesus heard
this he was amazed at him, and turning to the crowd that followed him,
he said, "I tell you, not even in Israel have I found such faith."  
10 When those who had been sent returned to the house, they found the slave
in good health.
7:18-20, 22-23 The disciples of John reported all these things to him.
So John summoned two of his disciples  19 and sent them to the Lord
to ask, "Are you the one who is to come, or are we to wait for another?"  
20 When the men had come to him, they said, "John the Baptist has sent
us to you to ask, `Are you the one who is to come, or are we to wait for
another?'"   22 And he answered them, "Go and tell John what
you have seen and heard: the blind receive their sight, the lame walk,
the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, the poor have
good news brought to them.   23 And blessed is anyone who takes
no offense at me."
7:24-28 When John's messengers had gone, Jesus began to speak to the
crowds about John: "What did you go out into the wilderness to look at?
A reed shaken by the wind?   25 What then did you go out to see?
Someone dressed in soft robes? Look, those who put on fine clothing and
live in luxury are in royal palaces.   26 What then did you go
out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.  
27 This is the one about whom it is written, `See, I am sending my messenger
ahead of you, who will prepare your way before you.'   28 I tell
you, among those born of women no one is greater than John; yet the least
in the kingdom of God is greater than he."
7:31-35 "To what then will I compare the people of this generation,
and what are they like?   32 They are like children sitting in
the marketplace and calling to one another, `We played the flute for you,
and you did not dance; we wailed, and you did not weep.'   33
For John the Baptist has come eating no bread and drinking no wine, and
you say, `He has a demon';   34 the Son of Man has come eating
and drinking, and you say, `Look, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of
tax collectors and sinners!'   35 Nevertheless, wisdom is vindicated
by all her children."
9:57-62 As they were going along the road, someone said to him, "I will
follow you wherever you go."   58 And Jesus said to him, "Foxes
have holes, and birds of the air have nests; but the Son of Man has nowhere
to lay his head."   59 To another he said, "Follow me." But he
said, "Lord, first let me go and bury my father."   60 But Jesus
said to him, "Let the dead bury their own dead; but as for you, go and
proclaim the kingdom of God."   61 Another said, "I will follow
you, Lord; but let me first say farewell to those at my home."  
62 Jesus said to him, "No one who puts a hand to the plow and looks back
is fit for the kingdom of God."
10:2-12 He said to them, "The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers
are few; therefore ask the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into
his harvest.   3 Go on your way. See, I am sending you out like
lambs into the midst of wolves.   4 Carry no purse, no bag, no
sandals; and greet no one on the road.   5 Whatever house you
enter, first say, `Peace to this house!'   6 And if anyone is
there who shares in peace, your peace will rest on that person; but if
not, it will return to you.   7 Remain in the same house, eating
and drinking whatever they provide, for the laborer deserves to be paid.
Do not move about from house to house.   8 Whenever you enter
a town and its people welcome you, eat what is set before you;  
9 cure the sick who are there, and say to them, `The kingdom of God has
come near to you.'   10 But whenever you enter a town and they
do not welcome you, go out into its streets and say,   11 
`Even the dust of your town that clings to our feet, we wipe off in protest
against you. Yet know this: the kingdom of God has come near.'  
12 I tell you, on that day it will be more tolerable for Sodom than for
that town.
10:13-15 "Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the deeds
of power done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented
long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.   14 But at the judgment
it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon than for you.  
15 And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? No, you will be brought
down to Hades.
10:16  "Whoever listens to you listens to me, and whoever rejects
you rejects me, and whoever rejects me rejects the one who sent me."
10:21-22 At that same hour Jesus rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and said,
"I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden
these things from the wise and the intelligent and have revealed them to
infants; yes, Father, for such was your gracious will.   22 All
things have been handed over to me by my Father; and no one knows who the
Son is except the Father, or who the Father is except the Son and anyone
to whom the Son chooses to reveal him."
10:23-24  Then turning to the disciples, Jesus said to them privately,
"Blessed are the eyes that see what you see!   24 For I tell
you that many prophets and kings desired to see what you see, but did not
see it, and to hear what you hear, but did not hear it."
11:2-4 He said to them, "When you pray, say: Father, hallowed be your
name. Your kingdom come.   3 Give us each day our daily bread.  
4 And forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone indebted to
us. And do not bring us to the time of trial."
11:9-13 "So I say to you, Ask, and it will be given you; search, and
you will find; knock, and the door will be opened for you.  
10 For everyone who asks receives, and everyone who searches finds, and
for everyone who knocks, the door will be opened.   11 Is there
anyone among you who, if your child asks for a fish, will give a snake
instead of a fish?   12 Or if the child asks for an egg, will
give a scorpion?   13 If you then, who are evil, know how to
give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father
give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!"
11:14-23 Now he was casting out a demon that was mute; when the demon
had gone out, the one who had been mute spoke, and the crowds were amazed.  
15 But some of them said, "He casts out demons by Beelzebul, the ruler
of the demons."    17 But he knew what they were thinking
and said to them, "Every kingdom divided against itself becomes a desert,
and house falls on house.   18 If Satan also is divided against
himself, how will his kingdom stand? -- for you say that I cast out the
demons by Beelzebul.   19 Now if I cast out the demons by Beelzebul,
by whom do your exorcists cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges.  
20 But if it is by the finger of God that I cast out the demons, then the
kingdom of God has come to you.   21 When a strong man, fully
armed, guards his castle, his property is safe.   22 But when
one stronger than he attacks him and overpowers him, he takes away his
armor in which he trusted and divides his plunder.   23 Whoever
is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters.
11:24-26 "When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it wanders
through waterless regions looking for a resting place, but not finding
any, it says, `I will return to my house from which I came.'  
25 When it comes, it finds it swept and put in order.   26 Then
it goes and brings seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they
enter and live there; and the last state of that person is worse than the
first."
11:27-28 [no Mt //] While he was saying this, a woman in the crowd raised
her voice and said to him, "Blessed is the womb that bore you and the breasts
that nursed you!"   28 But he said, "Blessed rather are those
who hear the word of God and obey it!"
11:16, 29-32 16 Others, to test him, kept demanding from him a sign
from heaven.  29 When the crowds were increasing, he began to say,
"This generation is an evil generation; it asks for a sign, but no sign
will be given to it except the sign of Jonah.   30 For just as
Jonah became a sign to the people of Nineveh, so the Son of Man will be
to this generation.   31 The queen of the South will rise at
the judgment with the people of this generation and condemn them, because
she came from the ends of the earth to listen to the wisdom of Solomon,
and see, something greater than Solomon is here!   32 The people
of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn
it, because they repented at the proclamation of Jonah, and see, something
greater than Jonah is here!
11:33 "No one after lighting a lamp puts it in a cellar, but on the
lampstand so that those who enter may see the light.
11:34-36 Your eye is the lamp of your body. If your eye is healthy,
your whole body is full of light; but if it is not healthy, your body is
full of darkness.   35 Therefore consider whether the light in
you is not darkness.   36 If then your whole body is full of
light, with no part of it in darkness, it will be as full of light as when
a lamp gives you light with its rays."
11:42 "But woe to you Pharisees! For you tithe mint and rue and herbs
of all kinds, and neglect justice and the love of God; it is these you
ought to have practiced, without neglecting the others.
11:39-41 Then the Lord said to him, "Now you Pharisees clean the outside
of the cup and of the dish, but inside you are full of greed and wickedness.  
40 You fools! Did not the one who made the outside make the inside also?  
41 So give for alms those things that are within; and see, everything will
be clean for you.
11:43  Woe to you Pharisees! For you love to have the seat of honor
in the synagogues and to be greeted with respect in the marketplaces.
11:44 Woe to you! For you are like unmarked graves, and people walk
over them without realizing it."
11:46  And he said, "Woe also to you lawyers! For you load people
with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves do not lift a finger to ease
them.
11:47-48 Woe to you! For you build the tombs of the prophets whom your
ancestors killed.   48 So you are witnesses and approve of the
deeds of your ancestors; for they killed them, and you build their tombs.
11:49-51  Therefore also the Wisdom of God said, `I will send them
prophets and apostles, some of whom they will kill and persecute,'  
50 so that this generation may be charged with the blood of all the prophets
shed since the foundation of the world,   51 from the blood of
Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who perished between the altar and the
sanctuary. Yes, I tell you, it will be charged against this generation.
11:52 Woe to you lawyers! For you have taken away the key of knowledge;
you did not enter yourselves, and you hindered those who were entering."
12:2-3 Nothing is covered up that will not be uncovered, and nothing
secret that will not become known.   3 Therefore whatever you
have said in the dark will be heard in the light, and what you have whispered
behind closed doors will be proclaimed from the housetops.
12:4-7  "I tell you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the
body, and after that can do nothing more.   5 But I will warn
you whom to fear: fear him who, after he has killed, has authority to cast
into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him!   6 Are not five sparrows
sold for two pennies? Yet not one of them is forgotten in God's sight.  
7 But even the hairs of your head are all counted. Do not be afraid; you
are of more value than many sparrows.
12:8-9 "And I tell you, everyone who acknowledges me before others,
the Son of Man also will acknowledge before the angels of God;  
9 but whoever denies me before others will be denied before the angels
of God.
12:10 And everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be
forgiven; but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.
12:11-12 When they bring you before the synagogues, the rulers, and
the authorities, do not worry about how you are to defend yourselves or
what you are to say;   12 for the Holy Spirit will teach you
at that very hour what you ought to say."
12:13-14 [no Mt //] Someone in the crowd said to him, "Teacher, tell
my brother to divide the family inheritance with me."   14 But
he said to him, "Friend, who set me to be a judge or arbitrator over you?"
12:16-21 [no Mt //] Then he told them a parable: "The land of a rich
man produced abundantly.   17 And he thought to himself, `What
should I do, for I have no place to store my crops?'   18 Then
he said, `I will do this: I will pull down my barns and build larger ones,
and there I will store all my grain and my goods.   19 And I
will say to my soul, `Soul, you have ample goods laid up for many years;
relax, eat, drink, be merry.'   20 But God said to him, `You
fool! This very night your life is being demanded of you. And the things
you have prepared, whose will they be?'   21 So it is with those
who store up treasures for themselves but are not rich toward God."
12:22-31 He said to his disciples, "Therefore I tell you, do not worry
about your life, what you will eat, or about your body, what you will wear.  
23 For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing.  
24 Consider the ravens: they neither sow nor reap, they have neither storehouse
nor barn, and yet God feeds them. Of how much more value are you than the
birds!   25 And can any of you by worrying add a single hour
to your span of life?   26 If then you are not able to do so
small a thing as that, why do you worry about the rest?   27
Consider the lilies, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin; yet I tell
you, even Solomon in all his glory was not clothed like one of these.  
28 But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which is alive today and
tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will he clothe you-- you
of little faith!   29 And do not keep striving for what you are
to eat and what you are to drink, and do not keep worrying.  
30 For it is the nations of the world that strive after all these things,
and your Father knows that you need them.   31 Instead, strive
for his kingdom, and these things will be given to you as well.
12:33-34 Sell your possessions, and give alms. Make purses for yourselves
that do not wear out, an unfailing treasure in heaven, where no thief comes
near and no moth destroys.   34 For where your treasure is, there
your heart will be also.
12:39-40 "But know this: if the owner of the house had known at what
hour the thief was coming, he would not have let his house be broken into.  
40 You also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an unexpected
hour."
12:42-46 And the Lord said, "Who then is the faithful and prudent manager
whom his master will put in charge of his slaves, to give them their allowance
of food at the proper time?   43 Blessed is that slave whom his
master will find at work when he arrives.   44 Truly I tell you,
he will put that one in charge of all his possessions.   45 But
if that slave says to himself, `My master is delayed in coming,' and if
he begins to beat the other slaves, men and women, and to eat and drink
and get drunk,   46 the master of that slave will come on a day
when he does not expect him and at an hour that he does not know, and will
cut him in pieces, and put him with the unfaithful.
12:49, 51-53 "I came to bring fire to the earth, and how I wish it were
already kindled!  51 Do you think that I have come to bring peace
to the earth? No, I tell you, but rather division!   52 From
now on five in one household will be divided, three against two and two
against three;   53 they will be divided: father against son
and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against mother,
mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law."
12:54-56 He also said to the crowds, "When you see a cloud rising in
the west, you immediately say, `It is going to rain'; and so it happens.  
55 And when you see the south wind blowing, you say, `There will be scorching
heat'; and it happens.   56 You hypocrites! You know how to interpret
the appearance of earth and sky, but why do you not know how to interpret
the present time?
12:57-59 "And why do you not judge for yourselves what is right?  
58 Thus, when you go with your accuser before a magistrate, on the way
make an effort to settle the case, or you may be dragged before the judge,
and the judge hand you over to the officer, and the officer throw you in
prison.   59 I tell you, you will never get out until you have
paid the very last penny."
13:18-21 He said therefore, "What is the kingdom of God like? And to
what should I compare it?   19 It is like a mustard seed that
someone took and sowed in the garden; it grew and became a tree, and the
birds of the air made nests in its branches."   20 And again
he said, "To what should I compare the kingdom of God?   21 It
is like yeast that a woman took and mixed in with three measures of flour
until all of it was leavened."
13:24-27 "Strive to enter through the narrow door; for many, I tell
you, will try to enter and will not be able.   25 When once the
owner of the house has got up and shut the door, and you begin to stand
outside and to knock at the door, saying, `Lord, open to us,' then in reply
he will say to you, `I do not know where you come from.'   26
Then you will begin to say, `We ate and drank with you, and you taught
in our streets.'   27 But he will say, `I do not know where you
come from; go away from me, all you evildoers!'
13:28-30  There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth when you
see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of
God, and you yourselves thrown out.   29 Then people will come
from east and west, from north and south, and will eat in the kingdom of
God.   30 Indeed, some are last who will be first, and some are
first who will be last."
13:34-35 Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and
stones those who are sent to it! How often have I desired to gather your
children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you were
not willing!   35 See, your house is left to you. And I tell
you, you will not see me until the time comes when you say, `Blessed is
the one who comes in the name of the Lord.'"
14:11, 18:14 For all who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those
who humble themselves will be exalted."
  18:14 I tell you, this man went down to his home justified rather
than the other; for all who exalt themselves will be humbled, but all who
humble themselves will be exalted."
14:16-24 Then Jesus said to him, "Someone gave a great dinner and invited
many.   17 At the time for the dinner he sent his slave to say
to those who had been invited, `Come; for everything is ready now.'  
18 But they all alike began to make excuses. The first said to him, `I
have bought a piece of land, and I must go out and see it; please accept
my regrets.'   19 Another said, `I have bought five yoke of oxen,
and I am going to try them out; please accept my regrets.'  
20 Another said, `I have just been married, and therefore I cannot come.'  
21 So the slave returned and reported this to his master. Then the owner
of the house became angry and said to his slave, `Go out at once into the
streets and lanes of the town and bring in the poor, the crippled, the
blind, and the lame.'   22 And the slave said, `Sir, what you
ordered has been done, and there is still room.'   23 Then the
master said to the slave, `Go out into the roads and lanes, and compel
people to come in, so that my house may be filled.   24 For I
tell you, none of those who were invited will taste my dinner.'"
14:26-27, 17:33 "Whoever comes to me and does not hate father and mother,
wife and children, brothers and sisters, yes, and even life itself, cannot
be my disciple.   27 Whoever does not carry the cross and follow
me cannot be my disciple.
  17:33 Those who try to make their life secure will lose it,
but those who lose their life will keep it.
14:34-35 "Salt is good; but if salt has lost its taste, how can its
saltiness be restored?   35 It is fit neither for the soil nor
for the manure pile; they throw it away. Let anyone with ears to hear listen!"
15:4-10 [no Mt // to vss.8-10] "Which one of you, having a hundred sheep
and losing one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the wilderness
and go after the one that is lost until he finds it?   5 When
he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders and rejoices.  
6   And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and
neighbors, saying to them, `Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep
that was lost.'   7 Just so, I tell you, there will be more joy
in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons
who need no repentance.
  8  "Or what woman having ten silver coins, if she loses
one of them, does not light a lamp, sweep the house, and search carefully
until she finds it?   9 When she has found it, she calls together
her friends and neighbors, saying, `Rejoice with me, for I have found the
coin that I had lost.'   10 Just so, I tell you, there is joy
in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner who repents."
16:13 No slave can serve two masters; for a slave will either hate the
one and love the other, or be devoted to the one and despise the other.
You cannot serve God and wealth."
16:16 "The law and the prophets were in effect until John came; since
then the good news of the kingdom of God is proclaimed, and everyone tries
to enter it by force.
16:17 But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away, than for one
stroke of a letter in the law to be dropped.
16:18  "Anyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits
adultery, and whoever marries a woman divorced from her husband commits
adultery.
17:1-2 Jesus said to his disciples, "Occasions for stumbling are bound
to come, but woe to anyone by whom they come!   2 It would be
better for you if a millstone were hung around your neck and you were thrown
into the sea than for you to cause one of these little ones to stumble.
17:3-4 Be on your guard! If another disciple sins, you must rebuke the
offender, and if there is repentance, you must forgive.   4 And
if the same person sins against you seven times a day, and turns back to
you seven times and says, `I repent,' you must forgive."
17:6 The Lord replied, "If you had faith the size of a mustard seed,
you could say to this mulberry tree, `Be uprooted and planted in the sea,'
and it would obey you.
17:22-24, 26-30, 34-35, 37 Then he said to the disciples, "The days
are coming when you will long to see one of the days of the Son of Man,
and you will not see it.   23 They will say to you, `Look there!'
or `Look here!' Do not go, do not set off in pursuit.   24 For
as the lightning flashes and lights up the sky from one side to the other,
so will the Son of Man be in his day.
  26 Just as it was in the days of Noah, so too it will be in
the days of the Son of Man.   27 They were eating and drinking,
and marrying and being given in marriage, until the day Noah entered the
ark, and the flood came and destroyed all of them.   28 Likewise,
just as it was in the days of Lot: they were eating and drinking, buying
and selling, planting and building,   29 but on the day that
Lot left Sodom, it rained fire and sulfur from heaven and destroyed all
of them  30 -- it will be like that on the day that the Son of Man
is revealed.
  34 I tell you, on that night there will be two in one bed; one
will be taken and the other left.   35 There will be two women
grinding meal together; one will be taken and the other left."
  37Then they asked him, "Where, Lord?" He said to them, "Where
the corpse is, there the vultures will gather."
19:12-26 So he said, "A nobleman went to a distant country to get royal
power for himself and then return.   13 He summoned ten of his
slaves, and gave them ten pounds, and said to them, `Do business with these
until I come back.'   14 But the citizens of his country hated
him and sent a delegation after him, saying, `We do not want this man to
rule over us.'   15 When he returned, having received royal power,
he ordered these slaves, to whom he had given the money, to be summoned
so that he might find out what they had gained by trading.  
16 The first came forward and said, `Lord, your pound has made ten more
pounds.'   17 He said to him, `Well done, good slave! Because
you have been trustworthy in a very small thing, take charge of ten cities.'  
18 Then the second came, saying, `Lord, your pound has made five pounds.'  
19 He said to him, `And you, rule over five cities.'   20 Then
the other came, saying, `Lord, here is your pound. I wrapped it up in a
piece of cloth,   21 for I was afraid of you, because you are
a harsh man; you take what you did not deposit, and reap what you did not
sow.'   22 He said to him, `I will judge you by your own words,
you wicked slave! You knew, did you, that I was a harsh man, taking what
I did not deposit and reaping what I did not sow?   23 Why then
did you not put my money into the bank? Then when I returned, I could have
collected it with interest.'   24 He said to the bystanders,
`Take the pound from him and give it to the one who has ten pounds.'  
25  (And they said to him, `Lord, he has ten pounds!')  
26  `I tell you, to all those who have, more will be given; but from
those who have nothing, even what they have will be taken away.
22:28-30 "You are those who have stood by me in my trials;  
29 and I confer on you, just as my Father has conferred on me, a kingdom,  
30   so that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom,
and you will sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.

