Être s'occuper du peuple et pas de propres intérêts, c'est le socialisme, mon cher. Et c'est précisément le problème d'aujourd'hui.Et si l'internet est fermé un jour, alors sans doute le souci du peuple et la "noble" fonction de l'état seraient la justification. Au moins, il n'est pas tellement socialiste que d'autres politiciens français. En 2008 ce n'était pas juste une faille isolé dans ce que vous appelez un "système humain". Plutôt, le system entier est incorrect. Même sans ce qui s'est passé en 2008, je ne dirai pas que j'étais content de ce système.De plus, votre comparaison est incorrect (ou au moins n'est pas assez précise). Il me semble que par un "système humain" vous voulez dire l'économie entière, et par un "système mathématique" vous voulez dire juste seulement les devises de bitcoins. Ou on doit comparer l'économie actuelle semi-planifie par le gouvernement avec l'économie libre, ou on doit comparer duex devises particulières, par example le dollar américain et le bitcoin. Bien sûr, les monnaies existent dans le contexte de l'économie entière, mais heureusement l'économie libre n'est pas réduite au bitcoin.En fait, (comme vous-même admettez ci-dessous au sujet de la déflation) le bitcoin a des failles, et je suis sûr que dans l'économie libre il y aurait des mieux devises. Bonjour!J'ai regardé tout à l'heure une vidéo (The Bitcoin Show, episode 015: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ThNpfl4wQww ) où on discutait, parmi autres choses, au sujet de la possibilité de la fermeture totale de l'internet par l'état. Je trouve que c'est un thème interessant. Qu'est-ce que vous pensez? Particulièrement, je suis interessé dans le côté technologique. Est-ce que c'est possible à découvrir quelque chose afin de le gouvernement ne pourrait pas interdire l'internet?Il y avait des bars clandestins, des soi-disant "speakeasies", pendent la Prohibition aux États-Unis. Et ceux n'étaient pas une rareté. Donc, je suis sûr qu'il y aurait des fournisseurs d'accès internet clandestins. Mais la question est de savoir si la technologie peut aider. Ooh... Really? I didn't know that. Anyway, no wonder. One more argument against libertarians.   What are you talking about?Anyway, I am not a libertarian. And I don't like libertarians. That's not funny. I am O.K. with waiting 45 days.As for 180 days, I don't know if this is true, I never heard of it, but if it is, then, well, I can't say I am O.K. with that, but I am still willing to wait that long. Because what choice do I have?Listen, I understand what paypal is. But I have no choice. Paypal is the most popular (and I daresay the only popular) payment system. Ordinary people don't know about anything else and don't want to bother for the sake of 10 dollars transfer. And I am speaking about ordinary people. If I would look for clients only within the bitcoin community, then I think I wouldn't have a single client until the Second Coming of Christ. The bitcoin community is still too small, you know.I provide a sort of consulting, so it can hardly be readily resold. Also, usually I don't demand prepayment. So, if they want to scam me, they would just refuse to pay. How the hell can I do it? Accepting cash only is a VERY big restriction on the number of clients. Maybe you would suggest me to deal only with martians and wait for UFO's landing in front of my house to deal with them? Here is what is said on bitcoingateway.com: "Currently, we can only accept US customers."My clients were from U.K. Having clients only from the U.S. is a big restriction. Also, I suspect that people who hear about bitcoins for the first time would VERY reluctantly disclose their creditcard number to bitcoingateway.com. I gave. That didn't help. Hi!I've recently started a business, and the most of my clients want to pay me via paypal. The problem is, receiving payments via paypal is not available for me, since only the citizens of some selected coutries can receive payments via paypal, and I don't live in one of them. I have already lost two clients who wanted my work but didn't want to bother with Bitcoins or Liberty Reserve or whatever. One more client agreed to Liberty Reserve, but now is saying that he regrets and complaining about difficulty of buying LR.So, I think that conducting the business in the present state of affairs is impossible.So, I am looking for a partner with a paypal account who would receive payments for me and send me equivalents in Liberty Reserve or in Bitcoins (by your choice). A small percent of money would be your fee. Suggest what would be an appropriate percent in your opinoin.Also, I heard that paypal sometimes is used by scammers, and it is needed to wait several days for confirmation of a trasfer. So, I am ok with that, you can wait an appropriate time after each payment and only then send me my bitcoins.The expected turnover is small. I expect several clients a week, average client pays 10 dollars. Also, some breaks are possible due to my being busy with other work.So, are there any people here willing to take part? Never heard of it. Where can I read about it? Somebody, give me a link please. What if somebody wants to start a new currency based on bitcoins with some changes in mechanism (for exaqmle suggested here or any other), or even without any changes but for special purpose or within a special society? Bitcoin is open source, so I don't see any technical problems with that. Also, we would have a speculation market between two bitcoin currencies, which could be a way of earning bitcoins for newbies. So, what do you think of the idea? Hm... Really? Isn't it centralized? Isn't the nightclub's owner a central authority?  I've just read about Diaspora, a decentralized social network, as an alternatice to Facebook, and was bearing in mind the discussion about dating sites. So, what do you think about the idea of a distributed and decentralized dating network? It's just so simple: we have decentralized communications via Skype, decentralized file sharing (BitTorrent), the decentralized Tor network, now decentralized social networks; so why don't be a decentralized dating network? It seems that the discontent with the lack of privacy (and other issues inherent to centralization) on dating websites is even stronger than with social networks like Facebook, don't you think? Isn't bitcoinmedia.com mentioned in your signature what you want? Great idea!I am not sure that I can/want to do this alone, but I would be happy to cooperate with somebody on Free State Dating. Anybody interested?By the way, I think one of the niche of such a dating site could be international dating, which leads to the question of immigration through marriage. Theoretically speaking, there could even arises an illegal (bitcoin) market for marriages of conveniance. But I don't like that. I think that bona-fide international dating is a good thing. hey guys!I am thinking of earning bitcoins by my programming skills. I am not sure although that there is any demand of that sort. So, is there? Website development or any kind of software development?I don't want to show examples of my previous work, since I want to preserve my anonimousity. So, here is what I am offering.I am willing to perform several small/simple tasks (websites or whatever) for deliberately understated prices (and I think that with 50% prepayment, although this is negotiable). Just in order to gain a sort of portfolio. I am willing to accept bitcoins or Liberty Reserve.Please, don't hesitate to contact me if you need any programming service.And I would be happy to hear your opinion on all these.Best regards,hidden_citizen.
