Does not offer protection, it only fends off burglars.Cameras are not security, they simply record and not protect.I can kill anyone in front of a camera and get away with it as long as it's not streaming to a secure or undisclosed location.Cameras are not security. Man, if only I believed in the devil. wasn't an atheist.Also: are there any Bible/Quran passages against this? Not to crash your thread, but...I will translate everything from Dutch-to-English and back!Send me a PM on the forum (here!) or hit me up on FreeNode IRC! (Nickname: Xunie, ofcourse)I'm available 7 days a week!  Yes, I removed the link.I'm not deleting the post because it's still a valid question. My thought exactly.And doesn't Assange have a private key he can use to sign the official address?So people, this can be a scam, don't donate until you're sure it's not!Also, this: What does your server run? -- No don't tell me.I can probably help a bit, I can pen test it! I have the most amount of experience with MySQL.I'm not that familiar with security hardening, I've never used SELinux but I can learn. (Not like I have a job right now.)I do know how to fix SQL injection/XSS/buffer overflows, etc. if I have the source, of course.I must say that I'm available 24/7, and I have a "wake up" url on my server I can give you that when accessed through your browser will try to wake me up with beeps.(Abusing is not amusing.)PS:I live in the Netherlands (timezone: CEST (UTC+02:00) right now, CET (UTC+01:00) during winter)I'm on Freenode 24/7, highlight me or send me a private message there and I'll respond ASAP.(Also: I'm taking lessons for my driving license, I should be getting my license in about 3-7 weeks.So if physical access is required to a server hosted in (or near) the Netherlands, I can drive there 24/7) I just had to write it!Turn on the video in a seperate tab for maximum effect!http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=at_f98qOGY0I love Sathosi, I love the open code,I love the network, I love the people's nodes.I love the Bitcoin, and all it's memberbase.Boomdeyada, Boomdeyada, Boomdeyada, BOOMDEYADA!I love the freedom, I love the namelessness,I love to trade things, I love to speculate.I love the whole net, and all it's userspace!Boomdeyada, Boomdeyada, Boomdeyada, Boomdeyada, I love GeekNet inc, for slashdotting us.I love cryptography, I love when blocks get found.I love the forums, It's such a brilliant place!Boomdeyada, Boomdeyada, Boomdeyada, Boomdeyada, Boomdeyada, Boomdeyada, Boomdeyada, Boomdeyada!...What do you guys think? Instead of "flipping burgers", I'm gonna be using my skills to earn bitcoins.If you hire me, I'll program for you and I'll sell you the source code.You can use the source code for whatever you want, I don't care as long as you pay! So, here's what I know:Advanced in C/C++ (limited OOP knowledge), know some perl/HTML/CSS/PHP/lua.(Don't expect me to make huge websites or anything, but a small page shouldn't be hard.)Anyhow, if you need a small hackish script that does something, I won't over-charge you.Prices will be negotiable.Either PM me or write in the thread!PS:If you want windows code, you can modify it yourself, the C/C++ code I'll give you will run on POSIX systems, but don't expect it to run on Windows without modification.I use HTML5/CSS3, get with the time already man! We (actually Satoshi) should do a group registration on FreeNode.I suggest we use #bitcoin for all other discussion relating Bitcoin that is not development. I would love a regular expression functionality, I vote for PCRE and POSIX ERE functionality! in that order. Well, that failed miserably, meeting scrapped guys, unless people have something to say or talk about and are actually coming.People who wanna chat can come to #bitcoin-dev on Freenode.Well, last time I checked people were for the idea of IRC (chat) meetings.And since no planning took place while I was gone, I'll just pick a date and see if anyone shows up for a chat, speaking, etc.The meeting will be on Freenode's #bitcoin-meeting channel.In case you don't have an IRC client, you can always go to http://webchat.freenode.net/.The meeting will be held on Sunday, October 24th at 1:00 pm (13:00) GMT.Timetable on the wiki page!I picked what I think will be an appropriate time for all Bitcoiners.Only thing is the Australians in Sydney will be up late and the Americans on the west coast will be up early!Laptop in bed is recommended! Unless this is a real bummer and half the people can't come because of this, I'd reschedule it to another time/date.Other than drawing people from the forum to the IRC channel I have no idea what to discuss during the meeting!I hope you guys can make something up, type out an article and just copy paste it while everyone else is muted.Here's the wiki page with the time table and other information: http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=irc_meetings People discussed that there is an element of "chance" or "luck" involved in generating a block.So, one day I might generate two blocks while another day I might generate none.Now the network is build around people generating blocks which seals in the transactions etc.And since a double spending attack is possible by 'reversing' the block -- which requires significant CPU time --,is the 'double spending attack' based a bit on chance, or not?If so, then an attacker wouldn't just need half the network, or more.The attacker needs just 40 percent of the network? more or less, right?It all depends on chance if reversing the block has a chance element to it.So I ask my fellow Bitcoiners: Does it?PS: Sorry for being away, I'll be on the forum from now on again! Bump!I agree, we need a changelog.I wanted to see what changed from 0.3.0 to 0.3.2 and the only way I could find out were the forums.Not a good thing. This is handy, although I prefer GNUPlot personally.... We have some scammers on the forums here, so if you do not know if you can trust a person?Just check in the list here.If you got scammed? Please post here: Scammer AccusationsPlease also post the traders you trust.If you've traded with someone before and everything went okay?Post his/her (nick) name here. (ofcourse, websites that accept Bitcoin payments are good too!)Anyhow, I'll start:BitcoinMarketTheymosedit: I trust Theymos and BitcoinMarket! Recently, since we've been slashdotted, we've had a few scammers lurking on the forums here.Now, I want to warn everyone trading here, that there are scammers around here.Please take some time and ask someone to be the middle man in your trade if you trade with a person you don't know or trust.So please people, watch out for scammers.PS: Report any scammers in this thread. In fact, Blizzard makes a lot of money from this.They hold mass bannings, ban accounts, not IP addresses, so the botters make new accounts and pay for their accounts, so Blizzard makes big bucks.World of Warcraft does have a two (or three) week try out period.I heard it's possible to get an account up to level 80 in that time, mining gold along the way and selling that, and finally selling the account for big bucks!Anyhow, these are all rumors I heard, don't take 'em from me. I don't even play World of Warcraft! The bottom three.This kinda shot my mind actually, and apparently my use of the comma/period have been switched.I used to write numbers "1.234,56" instead of "1,234.56", but from now on I will stick to ISO 31-0 by writing "1 234.56".  Okay, when I wrote this yesterday I was really tired.Today I did some math, and with 1000 possible lots and only 5 lots per person max, this gives enough room for 200 users, which is hard to manage manually.I'm making a website for this.So eh, no one gave me any money yet, so I'm postponing this 'till next week.Sorry to get everyone's hopes up.
A "hash" is basically a fingerprint of a piece of data. ("To hash" is the verb, obviously.)Anyhow, what ever you hash is basically like generating a fingerprint, they're fixed size and if you change one character, remove it or even something else, you get a completely different hash!If you hash "Hello, I'm Lord Jebe!" with SHA-256, you get "634ee5cd0971419655d8c61a93ecba406c8105b026afd6cf588a41503919fbd9".If you hash "Helo, I'm Lord Jebe!" (notice the typo), you get "82d90c440807866e3c01400223c466f8520b9e36fb4538c2ebeeb18cdecc71ec".Notice how the two hashes are totally different, this is natural and not predictive.There are different hashing methods out there, MD (Message Digest) 1/2/5 which are getting quite outdated, and SHA-256/512.SHA-256 is what Bitcoin uses right now.Now there's there's a 'target' set on the network, that target determines how difficult it is to generate blocks.If you hash some random data (which Bitcoin) does, and you generate a hash/fingerprint lower or equal than the target, you have generated a block!tl;dr: So, it's really not that hard, it's just generating a fingerprint from random data, if the finger print matches what the network's looking for, you got yourself a block, and thus generated some coins! You can't, read the rules: Since I like your picture so damn much, let me explain it to you. (+1 internet for you, sir!)You probably have the "Generate Bitcoins" option enabled under "Settings".This will cause Bitcoin to use your CPU to hash.Once it hashed what it was looking for? You generated a block!If the outcome of the hash is lower than or equal to "the target", the data that was hashed is a block. Not sure about what exactly is the block, but I'm sure about the other stuff!So, your CPU is hashing data to generate blocks, and blocks are Bitcoins!More information here:http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=hashhttp://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=blockhttp://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=targetAlso: Sorry for letting you hang there, I had the tab open and everything typed out, I just never clicked "post!". Well, I'll be holding world's SECOND Bitcoin Lottery. (Unless someone beat me to it!)I'll still manage everything myself, like I did last time: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=159.0.This time, we'll use the last 3 numbers of stock index closing prices, that is one number before (left of) the comma, and the two after (right of) the comma.All lots will be checked against all of the stock indices, they're listed below.We will have 3 winners, and the jackpot will be split in 3 for them.When someone wins, that person's lots are removed from the game, so there will be 3 individual winners.To enter, you have to have at least 15 10 posts.No spamming, I'm a forum moderator! To buy a lot, post the lot numbers you want to buy in this thread and send me a message through the forum's message system.I want you to post your lots you want to buy in the thread because I don't want people asking me to buy the lot.I'll message you back with a Bitcoin address to send me the money to. (So don't send it to my address I have in my signature!)Rules:50 BTC per lotp Scrap that! Since the Slashdotting alot of users picked up their own free 5 Bitcoins, so the lot price is lowered to 5 BTC!10% of the money is my profit, and the rest goes into the jackpot. (Which is quite small, usually lotteries take atleast 40%)The jackpot will be split in 3 for the 3 winnersA winner cannot win againYou need 15 10 posts to enter This is to avoid cheaters who buy more lots than allowed.5 lots per person maximum, any cheaters will have all of their lots taken away and will be banished from the next games.No refunds to the cheaters!Winning lots will be drawn on Wednesday the 28th of July2010 :p closing prices of the indicesIf no one wins, the next day's closing price of all stock indices will be used, until 3 winners have been selected.The winning numbers are gathered from http://www.google.com/financeThe stock market that 'selected' the winner can also select another winner, (until we have of course 3 individual winners)If no payment received upon one hour before the 'drawing'? Lot is not valid and the Bitcoins will be returned, if sent, of course..Indices we use to select the winners:Dow Jones Industrial AverageNYSE Energy Sector IndexNYSE Composite IndexNASDAQ Composite IndexNote that this list will still grow with Indices I select!, expect another 6 or so... F-Secure is in my opinion one of the better ones, I've almost never had problems with that. (Note: It's commercial, Arrr!)But then again, last I seriously used Windows was when XP was the current, and Longhorn/Vista wasn't even heard of.Norton, now that's a no-go. Say I have a RNG that can output 1024 different numbers, and we run it 1024*1024 times.We will keep statistics of how many times it gives us what number between 0 and 1024.The more we run it, the more difference in the array between the two numbers which got out putted the least and the most.And so, I can say with a certain amount of security without looking like a fool that how RNGs are used in Bitcoin affects the "chance" of generating a block.We can't.Bitcoin's Opensource so anyone can run a modified client and thus remove the cap!The Linux kernel RNG is seeded by noise on the system actually. I digg'd it! CPU speed * Luck factor = coins.No luck? No coins.Anyhow, this made me laugh, +1 BTC for you, ultrasonicsite. Way too strict, they block regular pr0n too.Not that I live in Australia, but I want my pr0nz!Anyhow, it seems the free days on the internet ... are over.  I have a friend who might be willing to translate it into Romanian, already dropped him a message. If I am correct, Bitcoin *can* work with only the last block. If I'm not, correct me!But this is insecure because if that last block isn't verified, it might be bogus!Every block is signed with the previous block. (Or something like that. I'm not an expert on the algorithm.)So, if you don't have block 10, you can't verify if 11 is valid, you first need 10 for that, and to verify 10, you need 9, and so on.When Bitcoin starts, it begins downloading the genesis block, and verifying it, and continues down the line checking all blocks and saving them. It's like a linked chain!Eventually every block in existence has been checked and saved, and right now that's like 27 megabytes.The block downloading mechanism isn't that fast. If I am correct it writes the whole file to the harddrive everytime -- or maybe just one sector -- when it gets a new block, so it'll write 65000 times to your hard drive... not exactly what you call 'nice'.I have a solution.Anyhow, does Bitcoin need all the blocks to function? YesCan we hardcode a block into Bitcoin to save time? Sorta, we don't want to download just from that hardcoded block on. Not saving every block makes the network insecure and starts a dependence on older clients which have saved all the blocks!So we cant save space? No, not by not saving the blocks, that's insecure. We can hardcode a block into Bitcoin, and initially let Bitcoin not download from the genesis block up to the hardcoded block.Bitcoin will then download only from the hardcoded block up to the current block, and after that the client can be used. (To generate/transfer coins/etc)So we have a he chain up until the verified block, we make the network insecure and start a dependence on the older clients which have saved all the blocks!By asking for that same block, and verifying it's local hardcoded copy, the client can just skip downloading the first blocks up to the hardcoded block temporarily.Then after those blocks have been downloaded, and ofcourse, verified from the hardcoded block on, Bitcoin will start downloading from the genesis block up to the hardcoded block and verify those.Thus enabling Bitcoin to be used without waiting that long, yet still preserving the genesis block up until the hardcoded block.And when the network grows larger, we can just move the hardcoded block to the current block when the release is compiled.This seems to me like a great solution to the problem of having to wait a long time.This might be insecure, but only so far.The hardcoded block's data will be hardcoded and compared against the received block. As demonstrated here by riX, it is possible to run Bitcoin standalone or "portable", on a USB thumb drive.It is possible to have that USB thumb drive encrypted. Ofcourse it doesn't have to be a thumb drive but can be an external harddrive too!It just requires some batch scripting, maybe we should release a batchscript with it called "standalone.bat" which will use -datadir=./.bitcoin and thus search for it on the USB thumb drive? It automatically raises it, I don't think nice 20 ./bitcoin will help to be honest.I think some people have set higher priorities for themselves in /etc/security/limits.conf, and when -20 isn't available as a nice level, a lower priority is tried.So, I think the dirty hack of editing /etc/security/limits.conf might fix it.I don't have any problems on my quad core system here either! There has been a problem in settings the "nice" level on Linux.A programmer who wasn't familiar with Unix/Linux used the highest priority (-20) instead of the lowest priority (20)!So, we have a bug. Clearly you haven't looked at the wiki here: http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/.Or the getting started guide on the wiki here: http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=getting_started. No thanks, anyhow, why would you run such an old system?! Bitcoin "syncs" the file, so the file get's rewritten to the harddrive every time it gets a block, that's quite intensive.Having a SSD hard drive right would really speed things up. You never said if you tried the 32 bit version.But seeing it's x86_64, your system is probably outdated.Either updating your system or wiping out everything and installing Ubuntu 10.04 from scratch should do the trick. Are you sure you're running 64 bit Ubuntu? Try running the 32 bit version, and please paste the output of 'uname -m', without the quotes that is! And seeing that you're using 8.04, which is quite an old version as 10.04 is the current stable, I suggest you update your system.Please note that Debian Lenny users also have the same problem, I guess this will be fixed in the next release.This is not a bug, it's an error of the programmer who compiled this.Bitcoin was built on Ubuntu 10.04, which is more bleeding edge than, well... 8.04 and Debian Lenny!I guess this will be resolved in the next release. Why would we want to slow Bitcoin down?No see, Virtual Machines can cause quite some overhead. And Bitcoin can really use all the resources it can get to generate higher.As with any computer program, or even any real world system, everything is based around bottlenecks.The slowest part in a machine determines the actual speed.More on that here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bottleneck
That's right, we have a wiki.So if you have any questions, I recommend you go to the wiki here: http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/ and try and look for your answer there.Theymos and I wrote a great getting started article which should cover almost everything, available here: http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=getting_startedFor the headless client (bitcoind), there's information about that here: http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=headless_client, and also on the JSON-RPC/API here: http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=apiAlso, feel free to register and edit the wiki, the documentation is quite scarce right now. As discussed before here: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=189.0But since that thread has died and no one really got any wiser of it, I'm creating a poll.Holding IRC meetings would be quite handy in discussing, maybe an hour or so per meeting?Anyone wishing to speak would just drop me a message.So, what would be a good time to hold the meetings?Do not forget to note your timezone! Edit: People, please post a time which is convenient for you.It helps a lot knowing when people are available. Being the middle man?For 50 BTC I'll be your middle man for any bitcoin transaction!There's probably some market in it, who knows?!edit: Send me a message on the forums or drop by on IRC if you need me! I've written a wiki article about bitcoind here: http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=headless_client.I suggest you read through the getting started article here: http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=getting_started You can use the 'addnode' flag on the command line to add a node, and it will generally go faster, I heard so from people, worth a shot! I second this, if you don't trust the developers? Get the source code, read it and compile it yourself! Done.I've also written a getting started article on the wiki here: http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=getting_startedAnd even one for the headless client here: http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=headless_client Note that the statistics theymos gave can and in my opinion mostly is just keepalive messages and not actual block sharing data.If you turn on Bitcoin every 24 hours or so? I don't think it should max out your datalimit.Then again, only way to find out is to try it! Well, running Bitcoin in an VM slows it down, significantly.It's better to run it directly on the host operating system.I suggest you do that. Why would you need a bank if you can backup your wallet.dat on regular basis?I seem no need for it to be honest. 30 MB to get the initial blocks or something, I'm not sure, someone needs to confirm this.Also: It shouldn't take that much up beside the regular "new block" broadcast.Maybe 100 kb/h? I've written this great (well, to my knowledge) wiki article for getting started here: http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=getting_started.So please read through it before you ask any questions.Also: Any questions can we asked in here.(Note: We have an IRC channel on irc.freenode.net , It's #bitcoin-dev) I second this ... highly...It'd be a security risk.I would like a popup that alarms the user of any updates though.Like "Bitcoin has updates! We suggest you update as soon as possible, go to http://bitcoin.org/ to get [version]." or something. Well, I've had some problems, it's stable now.But I'm saying the backend isn't prepared for the slashdot effect.Anyhow, I'm just worried, that's all.  Satoshi does have Bitcoin under control right now.We might consider enforcing a "we only support official clients" rule in the future, if there's some sort of Bitcoin fork, ofcourse.I'm not talking about an entire different genesis block, but a fork that adds features or modifies behavior.But I'm talking about a fork that has its own website, uses the same genesis block the network's using right now, etc.(And I'm defiantly not talking about custom SVN builds here, Hi there Laszlo! ) Am I the only one who thinks this is unwise at this moment?Bitcoin's only at version 0.3, bitcoind is far from complete, we have an incomplete API, might be bugs in it, who knows?!I hope for the sake of Bitcoin that Slashdot does not accept the story.If we do get Slashdotted, we might face people calling Bitcoin "buggy" or "feature lacking".Maybe I'm just being nuts or some doomsday thinker, but I'd really hate to see Bitcoin dropping.  It would be handy to see how many hashes per second are being performed by bitcoind.So a command like "gethashespersecond" or "getkhashespersecond" would be great.(If we add a "kilohashes per second" command, I suggest we return a floating point number, not an integer.)So, what do you guys think? Amazing! I feel proud now. Thanks to everyone for helping out with the project, I love opensource! 5000 * 0.005 = 25 US dollars, and since the price right now at Bitcoin Market is 0.007 or something, that makes it 35 US Dollars.Quite expensive for a 10 dollar game, isn't it? Hi there,I'd like to buy Osmos ( http://www.hemispheregames.com/osmos/ ), but I don't have a creditcard and don't like using paypal.So the person who will buy it for me, will make the transaction with their creditcard or paypal, and I'll send that person 1250 BTC.I know this doesn't add up to the 10 USD that is the price, but hey! You get Osmos with it for free!Who wants to buy it for me?!PS: I wanna download it myself from their site, if that's possible.
I vote for "1.0" and not "1.3" or something, bleh!(I also advice we use a major, minor and patch level version number, "0.0.00".)I've used bitcoin-1.3.0.rc3-linux[1] and found it to be mature enough to be called "1.0" in my opinion.(It was already called 1.3 there, but I guess we cal all agree it's the next release, thus right now can be called both 1.3 and 0.3.)[1] http://www.bitcoin.org/download/bitcoin-1.3.0.rc3-linux.tar.gz It's a relief to hear this.And what were you exactly testing?Like, how can it affect the whole network?If this is a bug that can bring down the whole network, it's pretty serious, heh. At 21:11 dutch time (CEST), around 10 minutes ago from when I made this post, the Bitcoin clients are getting k-lined.(note, times are CEST.)Code:--- SNIP ---[21:11:36] * u4euc453wZ599zQ has quit (K-Lined)[21:11:37] * u4mZRTtQwC6NskZ has quit (K-Lined)[21:11:37] * x398030675 has quit (K-Lined)[21:11:37] * u4m5AmvGVaM8MNU has quit (K-Lined)[21:11:37] * x92119461 has quit (K-Lined)[21:11:38] * u4iQ9mpGopGTd6D has quit (K-Lined)[21:11:39] * u4iqow5D1WqBmPH has quit (K-Lined)[21:11:39] * u4qsjyU6VRAtfRD has quit (K-Lined)--- SNIP ---Anyhow, this leaves the bitcoin network unable to operate.I see some clients getting back slowly.But this worries me.I suggest we apply what ever other bootstrapping mechanism we have right now, and release 0.3 ASAP.Someone in #freenode suggested this:Code:<gwillen> Xunie: as a potential user of bitcoin, I would suggest that if your project is going to connect to IRC in the background, you should document that fact somewhere. I'm suddenly much more wary of using it now that I know that it does this.This does make Bitcoin seem a bit... malicious to say the least... Lol, bitnickel!Anyhow, I was expecting this.And what about those using proxies?I don't wanna be an #@!%!#% here, but ehh... I think the "5 BTC for FREE!" thing, is kinda... flawed... Yay, Vasiliev won! I will setup a website, and some other place to get my random numbers from.Thanks to everyone for participating! Well, obviously no one won.So eh, we'll wait until someone finally does! Whoohoo! Can't wait!Note, is there somewhere I can get a devel build?Maybe we can setup nightly builds or something... Wouldn't the users lose their coins? I don't see any problems here, running 10.04 myself now! Great time for me too.And I strongly support this.Although we'd need to have something to discuss.Thus sorta gather some information over the week everyone wants to discuss...Who are the developers anyways?  Okay, so what about Bitcoin?What about our safety? So far, I got these lot numbers taken by these owners! I find this increasing fast though! 00 Vasiliev15 bencoder34 solar-53 solar-55 Vasiliev77 Lachesis81 Lachesis90 Vasiliev93 solar-96 LachesisThat makes the current jackpot 500 BTC!  Okay, this is what's going to happen.Everyone who wants to buy one or more Bitcoin lottery ticket(s), you post in this thread what number(s) you're buying, send me and I'll contact you how to pay.Please note that I really want you to post in this thread what lot number(s) you're buying because other people will know what lot numbers are taken.(And I do not like getting accused of scamming! )If two people "buy" the same lot number, the person who posted first in this thread, gets that lot.A maximum of 3 lots per player, no exceptions.The lot price is 50 BTC.The lottery will be drawn in 7 days on June 21.The winning numbers are the last 2 numbers (middle and right) on this page, http://www.lottery.ok.gov/pick3.asp.If no one wins, the next day's numbers are used, and we'll keep doing that until there's a winner. (No need to buy lots a second time, you'll keep playing.)So when no one wins, it's only a matter of time before someone does.And finally, everyone's money will be going into the jackpot in full, so there's no profit in it for me. (I ain't ripping Bitcoin off here! )(And I wont be playing myself.)Let the 'game' begin, hehe.PS: A website's coming! Please note that revision 77 is buildable (by default) and 78 isn't I believe.And can you next time wait for your answer in IRC?I mean, you asked your question twice, we're just not in the room 24/7!  Hey Satoshi, if I translate to tlhIngan Hol (Klingon), will you add it to the SVN?  I've been doing some quick research, Oklahoma Lottery's "Pick 3" game is perfect.It requires the player to select 3 numbers between 0 through 9. (We'll only use the last 2 numbers ofcourse.)It's drawn daily.You can easily check the drawing's results here: http://www.lottery.ok.gov/pick3.asp. I've been thinking and I'll be hosting world's first Bitcoin lottery!We'll be using the last two numbers of a real lottery, which one I do not know yet. (Maybe one that we can check online?)When you'll buy your lot, you'll "bet" on a number between 00-99. (including 00 and 99 ofcourse!)So, who's in for it?What real lottery should we pick for our random numbers, or does anyone have a better source?What price of the "lot" sounds preferable? 50 BTC? 25 BTC?And what's the maximum amount of lots I want to let people buy? 3? 5 at most?Please note that if the "jackpot" doesn't "fall" (no one wins), I'll keep hosting rounds until there does win someone, and I wont play myself.So I want like a lottery that draws numbers every week if we can't get one that draws every day. Or it should just look the hostname up before it dismisses it as an invalid address.This has probably just slipped the mind of the developer. I agree, this is a pretty large security hole.We need a bug tracker for this stuff. Here is the almost complete (93%) translation into Dutch.It might contain some errors though.I can has credit now? 
I'm translating this into Dutch myself.Don't blame my grammar or anything if I screw up!  Then what if you'll keep running Bitcoin long enough? Will you get broke? (Or change the "random payment" amount to be very small.)And I thought the transaction amount was public anyways?Because if it is, then it'll make the function useless since any attacker could just check if the amount transferred is higher than the "random payment limit".I dunno, sounds like a bad idea to me. Damn, I was just too darn lazy to finish my Casino.Ah well, I'll play in yours anyways, ha ha! Can't we force a user to use a new address for receiving payments?Every time a payment is received display another Bitcoin address in the address bar. (only transactions via Bitcoin addresses, NOT IPs of course, since that'd be useless, right?)The actual key would still be kept to ensure that the user would still receive payments of people sending to the same address. (We wanna minimize "lost" Bitcoins, right?)This yields a couple of questions:Is this technologically possible? (Probably.)Is this bad to force it upon users? (Probably.)Should we implement such a feature? (I don't know, I wouldn't unless we don't have a choice, better half a defense than none!)So, are there any alternatives to combat "coin lineage"? The points you mentioned are of high concern to me (and should be to the rest of the community.)Your suggestion of making the information that can found with/through digital forensics available to the user seems very good in securing Bitcoin.Maybe build a "paranoid mode" switch in Bitcoin that will immediately show all that info to the user!Also what seems like a good idea is to show that switch in a "first run dialog", but some people find that annoying. (I would too a business environment!)Maybe distribute a "Home" and "Business" binary that has the "first run dialog" and one without it, ofcourse in that order.But, as this data is available, and people will trust Bitcoin (sometimes blindly), we'll have to warn users about pitfalls.Have proper documentation documenting everything, even for the "paranoid users".Users will have to learn how to make safe transactions, etc...If someone screws up and gets screwed over by the justice system because he trusted Bitcoin blindly, he'll speak about it and Bitcoin will get a bad name.My conclusion: the Bitcoin community needs to watch out for the losers dumb users lusers! Yes, totally.It's just your GPU doing the work of your CPU. Good idea, but we would need some form of indicator it did that to the user, and warn the user about the potential hazards.(Atleast, that's my idea.) Well, what if the main website gets hacked and the blocks you are downloading are not the original blocks?I mean, this makes the network a hell of a lot of insecure. Actually I do not.I was thinking about something like 100 BTC per game.And no cheating! Note: I can't play until next weekend... Anyone interested in playing chess against me for bitcoins?(ps: I wanna play as black! ) Can you upload a screenshot? It'd help out great. Bitcoin works with asynchronous key encryption, right? (If I'm not, please correct me!)Can't we just put a simple button in the GUI that checks how much money we have by checking all the blocks if they belong to the user, or not?Or am I talking gibberish and don't I fully understand Bitcoin now? That's about what my face looked like when I read that.So eh, what do you mean "merging Bitcoin with other p2p projects"?Like Bitcoin+Bittorrent?! "build the official-p2p-currency" for what? Warez4Bitcoinz? Bad idea, BUT it is possible to make a "Chat" button on the main page of bitcoin.org (here).Then a Java IRC client is on that page so people will not have to install a client, or if they can't they can just chat on that page.That's the closest thing what I'd approve of. (not like I'm that important, but what ever! )Anyhow, integrating other services in the Bitcoin client is bad.Bitcoin is a finance application, not an entertainment one!And in my opinion, it only stays a finance application. I would too.Maybe I should host one, (I wont play myself, to avoid "scamming" claims), anyone interested? Sounds like a good idea, although you'll skip checking block, right?And that doesn't sound safe for high-value transactions.So I suggest we do implement it, but give the user the option to turn it on, but leave it off by default for now. I'd buy you a Domino's for you, if I knew how to pay from Europe!(Like, how is Domino's pizza in the United States gonna receive my payment?, Credit card?) Sorry about that, must've been drunk when I wrote that.  Note: I also suggest we show the warning everytime and do not give the user an option to disable that.(Like a checkbox that is marked "Show this warning everytime I use a proxy and send an IP transaction.".That'd be bad in my opinion, a user would disable it and forget about the proxy he's connecting through!) I feel obligated to post this in this thread to.Using Bitcoin over Tor might be dangerous. (It doesn't have to though!)Here is the message: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=129.msg1123#msg1123
I suggest we disable IP transactions while the user uses a Proxy!Just to be on the safe side. Isn't that "unsafe"?Say I am an exit node listening for bitcoin transactions and grab them?Or is everything public/private key encrypted?[1][1]Which is my guess. I don't know that much about IPv6, but it sounds good, if it's possible.How ever, keep in mind that as of now, 9/10th of the world still uses IPv4!So it is a great idea, and developer(s) (how much does bitcoin have anyways?) should implement it in bitcoin (in my humbly opinion).How ever, making it default to use IPv6 isn't a good idea.It's totally viable when everyone will be using IPv6, it's just everyone still uses IPv4!(And I see now that in my previous post I basically explained what other people adviced... Oops!) I strongly agree on that, since we have no market to trade things for bitcoins, a separate forum board works just as well!Yeah, "Tech Support" ain't a good place to discuss general questions, or feed back! Well, I prefer MediaWiki to be honest... but that's just me... BitcoinFX, I suggest using LFS (Linux From Scratch) to build a netboot image that when it generates a new block, it will send it to an bitcoin address or IP.But that's just me.(PS: It would be nice if someone created a bitcoin farmer/miner that does not run under a kernel but runs directly on the hardware, might improve speed!) Note: we also need to keep in mind the energy usage of each part, just sayin'. Wow, so how does it feel to be the first company that adopted a new payment system?! So, you started your exchange and I could get 600-650 BTC for 1 EUR?Hmm, I should've bought some then, if only I knew about it!  Out of curiosity, what was the problem?  Run this and afterwards try bitcoin again:Code:# ldconfig(just to be safe guys!) NEVER RUN A USERSPACE APPLICATION AS ROOT, EVERSorry about that, but using root for that is so foolish caps and bold is required.It's unsafe for your security, it will get you laughed at, it will cause kittens to be raped. (Seriously, who doesn't like kittens?)Anyhow, if it's installed it *should* work.Is it properly installed and findable?Run this:Code:$ whereis libcrypto I didn't think it wasn't gonna be MediaWiki, anyways, thanks! As the title says, we need, or at least could use a wiki. (in my opinion, that is)I don't have the resources to host one myself, maybe you (Satoshi) can host one on here?!Any how, I will defiantly do some editing myself.So, what do you guys (and gals, if there are any) think?Edit: I can help administer the thing! Bitcoin should not do that, maybe you don't have enough memory and your PC starts swapping? Debian packages cover alot of distros, if bitcoin really gets big we want to make rpms too. So, if I somehow I forwarded port router:8333 to bitcoinhost1:8333 and router:8334 to bitcoinhost2:8333, we get undefined behavior?Because that seems like trivial to me, to keep track of port numbers in any p2p app. We all talk about bootstrapping systems, how ever, my idea might be a bit better.A user starts bitcoin on a host for the first time, and it will initially download a list of nodes that it will connect to.(until, of course, we have a lot of static nodes we can hard code into bitcoin...)Then, the client tries to connects to those IPs on that list it downloaded, or when it already has a list downloaded from the last time it started bitcoin, connect to those.When we're connected, the client asks every node for a list of nodes they know and updates its node list.Once a complete list is obtained, it is saved on the hard drive and a copy is kept in memory. (This is because we want to have a list of nodes without actually connect to that indexing server.)And finally, the node is completely connected to the network.When a new node connects (when it receives a "new node packet"), the list is both updated in memory and saved to the hard drive again.To make updating the list with new nodes so bandwidth friendly as possible, I suggest that every node "echoes" the IP of a new node connecting to the network to all the nodes it knows...Pros:* Has bootstrapping in mind.* Is distributed for clients that have a node listCons:* Every new client needs to connect to a server to get a new node list until we're done with bootstrapping.This, in my eyes, seems like the best solution to our bootstrapping problem...PS: If we implement this, we might just wanna check if the "new node packet" we received contains bogus IPs, or IPs that resolve to .gov domains!  It does however seem unreal, if some people only get 8 and I can get 40+.We should make a user-pickable connection limit, for both incoming and outgoing connections.
