No it isn't.The page should be reverted. And the vandals from the new 'gocoin solution' should get blacklisted from the wiki, to boot, i think. thank you for your help :) Hi,Either create a wiki account and pay the anti-spam fee, or,Tell me what section of the nonprofit page you want to be added to, and a brief description of your organization, and I'll do it for you. If you tell me which section you want your entry to go on the Trade page, and what brief description you want to have listed next to your entry, i can add it for you. Hi, It is done. Cheers! If the site/service had its own page and was of some note, just edit the page and mention that the site no longer exists. I'd suggest to leave the content intact, for the purpose of preserving history. If you are talking about entries in pages which have a "list of $things", just delete entry from the list. done. It is fixed, thanks. There was a FAQ file on disk that the server tried to serve instead of the page. join #bitcoin-wiki to hang out and see if any ideas float by. also might want to start a new thread for wiki ideas. Fixed. it is 0.001 btc. I am not sure. I will check.Made a note about privacy concerns on the cryptopayment page. Thanks for the suggestion. it's an antispam measure, and a pretty effective one at that. so... blame the spammers. the inconsistency in the payment amount is just something we have to fix. it is 0.001 BTC presently, i think (will verify and get back to you).if you really can't afford 50 cents to prove you're not a spammer, feel free to post a request on the wiki subforum, https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?board=168.0, with the following info:- nature of your request ('i want edit rights')- your wiki account username- the languages you want to edit (the language wikis each has separate group rights - we hope to fix this soon)You'll then be granted edit privileges as soon as one of the admins notices your request and finds the time to act on it. It is done. Thanks for your patience.  Hi, what's your wiki username? That's great! Give it a try and let's see how it works out - no harm it trying. Hopefully we can get away with mostly a copy/paste job from wp :).  The current bitcoinpayment system is pretty lightly engineered - just adding people to a group when they send a payment. (It was made by MagicalTux, for the record). Requiring payment even before creating a user would take some thinking and coding, and as you can guess, Mtux is pretty swamped with mtgox stuff right now, so don't hold your breath. :)We've also talked about setting up an automatic sweeper bot to wipe new accounts that never verified, but again - time constraint. Mtux runs the wiki, so he's the one who'd have to do it.In the meantime, the spam user creation problem can be taken care of by just filtering out the User namespace from the recent changes list. It's not perfect, since it also kills edits of user pages, but it really does go a long way. Try it:https://en.bitcoin.it/w/index.php?namespace=2&invert=1&title=Special%3ARecentChanges oh great, coding by vote from people who don't know how to code. that would surely result in great quality software. </sarcasm>certainly the bitcoin client is not perfect and could use improvement in certain respects (hey, it's beta!), but coming in and saying "this is crap, let's just can the whole dev team and code by popular vote" is not really a productive way to go about achieving said improvement. it appears you are missing the private key. Are you sure you are trying to use your own keypair, and if so, are you sure you haven't deleted your keyring? Not broken, working as intended. You have to use trust paths, wherein ratings from people you don't trust get ignored automagically. rBJwwXADHqbwsp6yhrqoyt2nmFx9FB83Th Bitcoin Finding Great minerBitcoin Finding Gold minerBlockchain ForGe minerBlockchain Fast auGmenter/Grower minerBlock Fast Grabber minerst Barbara's Finder of Greatness minerjust a few things that came to mind. :)
Signature verified. Thank you Vandroiy for the confirmation. -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----Hash: SHA1The bet has now been paid out to Vandroiy, with 10000 BTC sent to the address he has provided me in a signed message. This concludes my duties as the escrow/arbiter of this transaction. Expect Vandroiy to post a signed message acknowledging receipt in a few days, once he gets back from the London conference.-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----iEYEARECAAYFAlBWWGoACgkQ5/k4vslVlLJirACglw0z4wnOodhkhRpsmCYYbec7s+0AoIXurXIKwW3H7w9YTPZ9rmzlFT9B=lRSg-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----  FYI, here is my interpretation.Since the existing ToS includes the provision for pirate's ability to change interest rates "with notice", this latest change in interest rates does not violate the terms of the bet contract, even though it did not itself have a 30 day notice. The term "interest rates" was only used as an example of terms that may change in ToS; the list of examples was not intended to be either exhaustive or necessarily-inclusive. The point of the ToS changes section and advance notice thereof, was to make sure that users are given ample notice for any unexpected material changes.For your easy reference, link to bet contract:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=91661.msg1013589#msg1013589 -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----Hash: SHA1I confirm receipt of 5050 btc from pirateat40 and vandroiyeach, for the btcst bet.-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----iEYEARECAAYFAk/3chMACgkQ5/k4vslVlLJrvQCcCtttIaVMJapHH7cT5hcQtiqk4lgAnjraPPKHpPzHZy6l0KukZmUqjWcB=Qyxi-----END PGP SIGNATURE----- -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----Hash: SHA1vandroiy's signature on btcst bet contract verified-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----iEYEARECAAYFAk/3YEMACgkQ5/k4vslVlLJGjQCggWuhTC6TN0CB6OGnvfjjm5IScv0AoIzUkTVZJhyCUeosQvFfLGWPFi92=eqDH-----END PGP SIGNATURE----- -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----Hash: SHA1pirateat40's signature on btcst bet contract verified.-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----iEYEARECAAYFAk/3XiYACgkQ5/k4vslVlLIICACfcK/cwfGUCST0I2H+ZgROcpqyqfIAniqu2tr2bZcWBHKG28x6MiDM3B8K=cvx0-----END PGP SIGNATURE----- Contract signed by me. Expect same contract signed by pirateat40 and vandroiy shortly. Once deposits are made, I'll post confirmation message. Not sure if the first loan coincided with the first short sale... but if so, then yes, I remember. :) October 28, 2010 https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Historysgornick: any reason the 'bitcoin first' page is separate from the older History page? This will probably fit nicely into the distributed web of trust framework that is currently being developed, using an OT-style contracting scheme. For more info, see http://privwiki.dreamhosters.com/wiki/Distributed_Web_of_Trust_Proposal_2 -----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----Hash: SHA1I have provisionally agreed to be the event occurrence arbiter, subject to the creation of, and my agreement to, more specific definitions of credit events for the contract, which are currently being worked on.-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----iEYEARECAAYFAk90oroACgkQ5/k4vslVlLIahACdEZwW7CByJwETP58kX88HH5x6yu8An0GAo2uI2x5pz0R4jUAaq94GoVRu=Ii36-----END PGP SIGNATURE----- this is currently being worked on. see https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/476 and the forum thread referenced therein. glad to see the good news, bearbones!  Quick update: p2pool is currently operating at about 7 ghps. by the way, don't feel that you have to hold off on joining the pool until the pledge drive is complete. pool is already running at 1.5ghps or so, so join at will if you want.  there can be many p2pools of larger or smaller size... so if "the main p2pool" gets too big for small miners to see reliable payouts, smaller ones can bud off. so yes, i indeed can foresee that the p2pool framework will overtake centralized pools. looking forward to it. i said that it /smells/ like a scam, given the information that i see on the site. i was not calling you a scammer, since i didn't even know who owns that site (now i know it's you).re: my claims: paying interest is not a necessary precondition for calling something a bank (this was addressed in a post above already), therefore i stand by my assertion that your claim of being the 'first bitcoin bank' is false. feel free to check out http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bank . a bank is a financial intermediary - which mybitcoin (and any ewallet before it) is.further - "paying interest" is done by "normal banks" by lending out deposits at interest. you did not state where you get the funds for paying interest. so it was certainly a natural assumption that you are not in fact handing out free money.if you're paying interest out of your own mining output... well good for you, i wonder how long until you get tired of handing out money for free. any business whose model is to hand out free money for nothing doesn't last long.if you want your site to stop smelling like a scam (at least in my eyes - but probably in many reasonable people's eyes as well), i would suggest to stop making false claims, and to describe your business model so that it is clear where 'interest' is coming from, and how you are (or plan to) actually be profitable running this enterprise in the long term. (hint: handing out free money and making it up in volume is probably not going to work  ). probably because it smells of scam like a week-old open can of sardines left in the street smells of rotten fish.first bitcoin bank? false, mybitcoin was first, and others later.pay interest? using funds coming from where? possibilities: other people's accounts (ponzi scheme); lending out people's deposits (fractional reserve without insurance - just wait for that first bank run); founders actually handing out their own money (yea right). Is there a nice (however brief) text description of your latest framework somewhere? 
I am requesting comments. Therefore this is a request for comments. Nowhere did I imply that this was in any way official or connected with any standards-setting organization like IETF.  well, first post, has a link to a page... with the basic framework written up. an extra output in the coinbase tx adds only a few bytes, 50-60 bytes is the figure i was quoted on IRC. so with 1000 outputs in the coinbase, we are only adding 50kb to the block or so. nothing to be writing home about, really. well, the exact fee structure is set out here: https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Transaction_fees . while all inputs are considered, the final fee is set based on total size and priority of the overall transaction.it seems that given that, one can structure the consolidation transactions to minimize the fee (one obvious way would be to wait until they age, increasing tx priority score).  tx fees are not 'per input' but 'per transaction', and currently you'd only pay .0005 for your one transaction combining input. so just collect a bunch of mining revenue, and combine it with your one tx for .0005 fee. yes, larger generation transactions will make the blocks that much larger. just have to see how it goes eh?  i meant, sizes in bitcoins, not sizes in bytes. yes, size in bytes also does matter, sure. i would venture to say that this would simply, self-select smaller miners out of such pools, and the free market will once more solve the issue without any assistance from us. i have responded to your post above. did you miss it, or did you just not think it was a valid response? indeed, it needs a bit more detail in the description. for now this was a really rough proposal just to get some thoughts flowing. my thinking on this was that we can simply rely on the order in which the node received the shares and the local-timing thereof to determine whether a share is allowed to be omitted from the payout calculation. (e.g., a submitted share is still valid if it excludes 2 most recent shares, or shares received in the last 5 seconds, whichever is greater).well, besides the pool fee (someone's gotta pay for the beefy server with the think network pipe, to hand out the work units), and the ddos problem (mmm, who do we ddos - aha, that nice pool server looks good), yes, centralized pools are not too bad.interesting... guess that's something to look into as well, rotating leader-selection. one of the issues with this that i can see though, is that the selected 'leader' will have to do a lot more cpu and network work, since it will have to hand out all the work units to the pool. this means anyone not running a beefy server on good net connection will be unwilling, and unable, to be the leader. and we get a nice adverse-selection problem. there's no benefit to being the leader. so the only people willing to be the leader will be those who want to try something sneaky. fees do not depend on input sizes, only on output sizes.one i'm willing to take.cpu miners can stick to centralized pools. or they can just stop mining - which they mostly already have, except for the ones that don't pay for their electricity. hi,see also: http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=27216.0 the coinbase transaction already goes last - it is at the second-to-top level of the merkle tree. re: difficulty: you, too, have failed to read the proposal. see post above about difficulties, different pools, and miner self-selection.re: prisoner's dilemma: there is no prisoner's dilemma. shares are valid simply by the majority of the miners recognizing them as such and including them in their payout calculations. someone deliberately excluding valid shares in his payout calculations will produce invalid shares, to his own detriment.  a) generation transaction does not require a fee, regardless of size of its outputsb) we'll let the miners take care of the pool hopping if they so choosec) difficulty: you have failed to read the proposal carefully - suggested difficulty is 1e-4 * currentdifficulty, and miners of different power can choose to create/join pools of different difficulties.d) the system proposes exactly the 'cluster together of miners by hash power precisely - the miners will self-select into pools of appropriate difficulty for them. I have written up a high-level overview of a distributed mining pool proposal. Please follow the link below, read, and give your comments.http://privwiki.dreamhosters.com/wiki/Distributed_mining_pool_proposalSpecifically, it would be important to try to poke holes in the framework, to make sure that it can be made cheater- and spammer-resistant. (Just like bitcoin itself!  )Your comments appreciated. If you haven't heard of soviet russia... you should read up.and also: NO!. this has nothing to do with mining at allonce we have enough people accepting bitcoins, we have complete economic cycles in btc, wherein merchant accepts btc, then pays his supplier in btc, the supplier pays his supplier in btc, they pay their employees in btc, the employees use btc to buy stuff they need, etc.there will still have to be some exchange into fiat for the purposes of tax payments - but that's a separate issue. confirming that crash due to lack/loss of network connection is fixed in .24rc1 no, because that argument is BS.  money doesn't have to have non-monetary-use value.there has been a non-BS argument proposing that things than are money have to /start out/ having some non-monetary-use value in order to get bootstrapped. because before it gets widespread use as money, it helps for it to have non-monetary value. and historically, that may well have been true. but bitcoins have already soundly disproven that it is a /necessary precondition/ for the creation of money, since bitcoins exist, bitcoins are valuable, and they have not started out having any non-monetary-use value. so even though historically it may have been the case, it is not axiomatically the case for all future cases. lol yea i saw the crow too can anyone confirm the no-internet-connection segfault for 0.3.23 or linux?
trying to run the 32bit linux binary, on a fresh install of 32bit ubuntu lucid with the latest updates, and getting a segmentation fault, both with bitcoin and bitcoind, and both with and without the .bitcoin data directory.gdb traceback below:Code:$ gdb bitcoindGNU gdb (GDB) 7.1-ubuntuCopyright (C) 2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc.License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.  Type "show copying"and "show warranty" for details.This GDB was configured as "i486-linux-gnu".For bug reporting instructions, please see:<http://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/bugs/>...Reading symbols from /home/dfolkins/bin/bitcoind...(no debugging symbols found)...done.(gdb) runStarting program: /home/dfolkins/bin/bitcoind [Thread debugging using libthread_db enabled][New Thread 0xb7abbb70 (LWP 2010)][New Thread 0xb72bab70 (LWP 2011)][New Thread 0xb6ab9b70 (LWP 2012)][New Thread 0xb62b8b70 (LWP 2013)][New Thread 0xb5ab7b70 (LWP 2014)][New Thread 0xb52b6b70 (LWP 2015)][New Thread 0xb4aa7b70 (LWP 2016)][New Thread 0xb42a6b70 (LWP 2017)][Thread 0xb72bab70 (LWP 2011) exited]Program received signal SIGSEGV, Segmentation fault.[Switching to Thread 0xb5ab7b70 (LWP 2014)]0x002e150b in vfprintf () from /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6(gdb) bt#0  0x002e150b in vfprintf () from /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6#1  0x002e2ec2 in ?? () from /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6#2  0x002dde13 in vfprintf () from /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6#3  0x0038203d in __vfprintf_chk () from /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6#4  0x08056458 in ?? ()#5  0x080847d9 in ?? ()#6  0x08091c7a in ?? ()#7  0x08092853 in ?? ()#8  0x0015296e in start_thread () from /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libpthread.so.0#9  0x0036ea4e in clone () from /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6(gdb)on the same machine, absolutely no problems running previous version of bitcoin, 0.3.22.EDIT: aha! it segfaults when there's no internet connection. when internet connection is available, works ok. earlier versions used to be just fine without net, but this one segfaults, so it seems one of the network-code changes has introduced a bug. because bolloxing up an old thread is just as bad as making a new one, maybe?  as i understand it, this is not about leaf nodes being "anonymous", but simply about reducing the signal-to-noise ratio in the node addresses being passed around for bootstrapping purposes. "over time" as nodes get upgraded to the new code, fewer and fewer of them will pass around 'useless' addresses to others. still no rap version? a little disappointing.  so... in a few months, then? let's just pretend we're in october 2011 and coins are 100usd/btc. what do you choose now?  пока тут вы разбираетесь с btcex.com, приглашаю всех на канал #bitcoin-otc-ru на freenode IRC. нецентрализованная торговая биржа.  the key attribute of an escrow agent is trustworthiness - both buyer and seller have to trust the escrow party not to walk away with the funds.being a relative newcomer to the bitcoin community... you probably won't score all that much trustworthiness  this is the genesis block:http://blockexplorer.com/block/000000000019d6689c085ae165831e934ff763ae46a2a6c172b3f1b60a8ce26frezin777, you linked to block 1, which is the second block in the chain.  (counting starts from 0) post on OTC order book!  (can link to this thread in notes, or for extra bonus points, make a quickie website on googlepages or something.) as you said yourself, keeping 'bitcoin' in there is probably a good idea. microbitcoin, or 'mike' or 'ubic'  you forget that difficulty only increases while there's expectation of making a profit on the miner hardware+ongoing costs - hardwareresale at the end.difficulty increases will simply not happen, unless bitcoin price increases sufficiently in order to encourage new mining power to come in.there's a feedback loop in operation here, things will level out eventually. i think it would be interesting to contact them about it and ask.... hey, i'm not your girlfriend!</ambiguous sentence police>  yep, <200 votes remaining to overtake #1 spot!go go go!  the question of whether bitcoin is 'overvalued' is only going to be empirically determined by what happens in the future. seeing as how my powers of future prediction are pretty shabby, i'll refrain from fretting about this. i think your powers are probably no better  so i can suggest the same approach to you. indeed these are good points - and i think all these things will happen with the site redesign in the near future. magicaltux's name and location are known. firm information i recall seeing as well. but you can email him for this information if you want.how many accounts - i think he has stated some days ago a rough approximation of number of accounts.money flows - that's proprietary information and you probably won't get it.dark pools: they are going away with the upgrade in june.anything else? yes so... what exactly were you proposing to do, by way of solving the 'bitcoin price' problem that you perceive? or were you just talking without having any solutions in mind?  if the latter is the case, then i'd like to join you and also complain about the us national debt, corrupt politicians, street crime, and rainy weather. you're more than welcome to go and dump a few 100k btc on the markets to depress the price to bring it to where you think it should be. go, do in now! my bids are waiting!  i voted.and as far as comments, please keep in mind gavin's PR suggestions. all this talk about overthrowing governments is both a little far-fetched, an unproductive as far as attracting 'regular people'. see http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=8940.0 maybe it is simple enough - have the block be sent to your local bitcoind - and your local bitcoind will then broadcast your block to everyone - including the pool node.of course, everyone but the pool node will reject your difficulty-1 blocks, but the pool node will see them and give you credit for them. so it seems that modifications necessary to bitcoind are actually quite minimal. (1) configurability to let it set getwork difficulty (2) configurability which nodes to send blocks to (ideally, to prevent network spam, it can be configured to send diff-1 blocks only to the pool's node, not everyone else.) mmm unless something changed in the past 3 pages , my understanding is quite the contrary.well, the pool is still in charge of user registration, and assigning addresses to be used in the coinbase by the clients. the creation of coinbase tx, the monitoring of the network and inclusion of transactions into the block, etc, is done client-side.but then, the distribution of the bounty is based on number of shares submitted by the clients.
great idea.pool allocates a new address to each participant, and participant uses that address in the coinbase (so not possible to 'steal' coins).The benefits i see:1. there's no more getwork network overhead for the pool (therefore fewer resources needed to run a pool). all we send are completed diff1 (or greater) shares that the pool needs to verify.2. no more pools being able to decide what transactions to include or not (see eligius and its policy of charging fees for all tx), or to try to create blockchain forks for double spending if they get too powerful (this hasn't happened yet, but it /could/, theoretically.)The only thing needed is to write some code for sending the shares to the pool.As i see it, this scheme does not introduce any downsides.  miners cannot 'steal' blocks, if they withhold a good block, they don't get the coins, since the coinbase address used is one belonging to pool owner. +1 gavin-1 unk-1 on using the word 'paypal' in bitcoin marketing.  hope you cleared it through a friendly lawyer - this talk about price appreciation etc, may deserve some kind of disclaimer about 'past performance not guaranteeing future results' and about your ad not being investment advice and things like that. looks fine, and forum's quite fast, too. ++  1. they claim they make their money from ads on the site, last i looked.2. you don't, other than trusting their word for it.nb: i don't use mybitcoin, and wouldn't really want to put any significant amount of bitcoin on any third-party site. 'ideal difficulty' is 'as high as possible' the basic idea is, the higher the difficulty, the higher the value of a bitcoin, therefore the lower the min fee has to be to discourage dust spam. that's all. we don't really need to know about 'ideal difficulty' and things like that. e.g., just say, starting from now, for every X% difficulty increase, minimum tx fee will go down by X% (or some such). no, just indexing the dust-spam threshold to bitcoin value. just as is being done manually with the change from .01 to .0005 in this here RFC. the fees based on TX volume remain as they are. the anti-dustspam fees are really quite a separate beast from the regular 'transaction volume fees'.  it seems you have completely misunderstood the proposal. higher difficulty would result in /lower/ minimum fees, not higher ones. just as now we're going from .01 to .0005. I quote, with some extra emphasis added: yes - but the talk here is not about that at all, but about the 'minimum fee' required when using transactions with small inputs, to prevent dust spam. random off-the-wall idea: how about making the minimum tx fee track the difficulty changes?since difficulty itself is a function of price, albeit with quite a bit of hysteresis, setting min tx fee changes to track difficulty changes via some kind of monotonic inverse-relationship function would automagically set tx fees to reflect bitcoin value, in a one-step-removed kind of way.(again, just as a stopgap, until better code to 'free the tx fee market' is in place) xkcd's black hole address:http://blockexplorer.com/address/1Lg2rvxbBPC8jp2YJoV5xL7sdyTjueMUot poll: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8342.0 OK, quick poll to see what people think.I can trivially set gribble to respond in PM for all commands in #bitcoin-otc. So asking whether I should do that.I deliberately don't have a third option like "yes, but not for command X and Y", because doing that would not be trivial. (well, would require some coding).The way I figure it, if someone wants to make some particular response from gribble public, like the latest mtgox quote, he can take the effort and paste it on channel.Your votes (and your comments in the thread) appreciated. i can fairly trivially change gribble to respond to all messages sent in -otc via PM.yay or nay? i run #bitcoin-otcwe have created a #bitcoin-otc-ru channel, brought the bot in.now you have nice place for p2p trading. would have been fine to do it on the main bitcoin-otc channel, but i figured all the russian talk would probably annoy the current userbase. you're all welcome to it.currently working on documentation translation for the wiki. maybe you're sending to wrong email address?if you still have no reply, talk to magicaltux on IRC. LanceRushing:hehe good work! now, to see if someone will rap this  because i am not sure the synth-voice does the verse justice  heh, guy posts a betting pool on the sex of his baby... he's gotta expect some related queries. please post picture of the pregnant belly, front and side views, not obstructed by loose-fitting clothing.  a bitcoin miner's lamentall day long i generate,my room's so hot, there's no debate -if it continues at this ratei will be baked like a sweet potat-o, how hard it is to make a block!everyone wants one, there's limited stock.difficulty rising, gotta fast get a lockon that precious fifty-bitcoin block!GPU is crunching but average timehas grown so fast my hash rate's hardly worth a dimeroom is toasty, like a tropical climebut i persist - a fresh block is sublimei'm gonna have to take a dip, a dip in the poola mining pool, the greatest toola small miner's friend, for only a foolwould keep solo mining as if it's coolwhen difficulty's up so high, sky high,what's a fellow gonna do but wait to dieof old age while you hash, hoping for a tiewith a hash target so low you want to cryso i mine in a pool, getting bitpennies a dayhundreds of miners joining that fraybuilding that block like a brick out of clayit's the only game a small miner can playbut pennies ain't enough, i want morei drop by mtgox to see what it's got in store.i see that price and sweat out of every poreit's shot up to the moon, way up from beforeand i patiently sit, and wait for a diprefreshing mtgox, with every sipof my cup of tea, but at this clipi'm only missing out, and i lose my gripi plunk down some fiat, a few grandno time for limit orders, i grab all the outstand-ing asks, and behold here i standthousands of bitcoins in my hand!now i live in trepidationwaiting for bitcoin appreciationit has thus far been a total sensationpart of me wants to dump, but i'm patientnow i start to develop some cunningi decide to start a business and get it humming,helping get that bitcoin economy running!i now realize it's never been about the mininga newbie comes by on IRC"i clicked generate coins, and nothing - see?"i share my wisdom through my PCwhich now is deep as is the sea.=======i envision a great hit song from these lyrics If you like - feel free to throw some coin at 1CrmbXC3HBZszFhDDLJMCsTkaWG2EJo6gD hey, i want to know about the hidden wiki too! 
Hey, If all you want to know is how it will benefit you, the benefits are really rather simple and have nothing to do with philosophy or economic theory. 1. Receiving bitcoins is free - no paypal fees, no credit card fees, etc.2. The effort required to start receiving bitcoin donations is minimal (create a mybitcoin account or install the client, then paste a bitcoin address on your website)3. Sending bitcoins is easy and nearly-always free. People who use bitcoin tend to be always up for throwing in a few bits to organizations they support, since the barrier to doing so is quite low.4. You don't lose anything by putting up a bitcoin address - those who prefer to use paypal or whatever other methods you currently accept, can continue to do so. You only gain, potential bitcoin donations.5. Exchanging bitcoins to USD is quite easy. Selling coins is a lot easier than buying them. (Try #bitcoin-otc channel. MtGox now also allows you cash out via Dwolla directly).So in summary, from a purely practical standpoint - you have nothing to lose, and potential new revenue to gain, at a cost of a few moments of your time. how about "no party can freeze your account", "no party can print out a shitload of currency and devalue it", "no chargebacks", "no extra fee on international transfers", "mostly free transactions"... started a wiki page with some infohttps://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Payment_methodsfeel free to expand, i filled in what i know.  there is a reason OTC identities are based on GPG keys rather than nicks.  unless you manage to lift mary's private gpg key... good luck claiming her OTC identity. i can buy that.  as has been suggested - indeed the solution is to ask a user /on freenode/ to register a nick for you /on freenode/, and give you the account details.you then can log in via tor, change your password, and you're happily on your way toward using freenode with tor, never having revealed your real ip. the sex related services section of the trade page has been restored, since it is legal by both us and japan law, and thus is not subject to deletion according to the wiki owner's policy. theymos, for your consideration:i think incentives can easily be worked into [mike]'s scheme, if you just change the protocol to require the 'parking' transaction to have X fees. et voila, we have incentives. what do you think? it's a good idea - though the presence of double-signed contract should be optional. would mostly be useful for cases where you (for whatever reason) decided to transact without a contract, and then got scammed and want to post a negative rating.  obviously for a positive one, both parties would be willing to make the contract ex-post.then, just post these bits of data onto any distributed data store, and you can have 'aggregator' services providing data lookup. try bitcoin-otc i can't comment on any of the details of the proposed protocol due to insufficient familiarity with freenet... but fwiw i think it's a good idea to have this available.we may all be happy it is there, if it comes to pass that some $government or some $isp decides to block (or monitor) bitcoin traffic. i'll sell invites to the main pod at .49 btc bam.  hey, i have a great idea:why not let bitcoin.org and the 'official wiki' be 'squeaky clean', and just set up a third-party site with uncensored forum/wiki separately.that way we can both keep the main project away from any unnecessary controversy, and have uncensored discussion/merchant listings.i bet 'bitcoinwiki.to' and 'bitcoinforum.to' (choose any hard-for-govt-to-seize tld) are available. bitcoincomes: please feel free to drop by #bitcoin-otc and post your offers on the book. you might get a few takers coming through otc. limited supply hasn't stopped gold and friends from being a great store of value over time. given the way the market has moved... are you surprised that nobody wants to sell you call options?  you forgot a most important detail. call or put?  right. ok, let's walk through this. let's say there's a guy with address 1xxxxx registered on bitkarma, and there's a guy with address 1yyyyyy as well. let's say 1xxxxx is buying socks from 1yyyyy. well, mr 1xxxxxx can easily look up 1yyyyyyy's rating on bitkarma, and if he sends his bitcoins to address 1yyyyyy, he knows that he sends to the right guy - namely, the guy that he's sending coins to is the same guy whose karma he has just looked up.now, how about mr 1yyyyyy, how does he know who he's dealing with? mr 1xxxxxxx can say hey, look up my karma, address 1xxxxxxx. but /anyone/ can say the same thing, even if he doesn't own address 1xxxxxxxxx. thus, while the receiver's identity is verifiable simply by sending to 1yyyyyyyy, the sender's karma is not, since anyone can claim an address.which actually brings up another point - even the receiver, if he just wants to 'grief' someone by having them lose btc, can claim someone else's karma by handing out other people's addresses. he won't get the btc, so there's no gain to the griefer. but there's loss to the sender, since he just sent btc to some random person who wasn't expecting it. in other words... on your site you need some way for people to easily prove that they own accountX, prior to a transaction. another note:registering a bitcoin address to a karma account is really only useful one-way - when you send to a person, to one of the addresses registered on karma, it would provide identity/karma information. however, since client doesn't allow one to send /from/ a particular address, going the other way (i.e., receiving coins), bitcoinkarma system would not be of use as far as proving who you're dealing with. Hey,You can get raw data from the sqlite dbs, posted on site:http://bitcoin-otc.com/otc/Also, we've done some integration of OTC WOT with coinpal - he posts signed messages of automated ratings for people who purchase, i pull them into the rating db automagically.http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2555.msg89178#msg89178and yes, as suggested above - allowing users to register with gpg key (maybe as an option - like on coinpal), would allow us to collaborate on integrating any ratings from bitcoinkarma into the otc wot.
yes it is actually quite functional now (though the label 'alpha' is still there)also, if you buy diaspora invites, may i suggest you get them from me instead? http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=5082 yes, ultimately where 'free money' is concerned, human monitors will not solve the problem. no matter how low you set the reward, there are people whose time is worth nothing, and they'd thus be willing to spend it getting something > nothing.Nothing wrong with testnet coins having value. they had value before the testnet was reset, and they'll have value again at some point, right up until testnet is reset again (if it is).it can always be scripted to run the PoW calc outside the browser, then submit the result. seems like that would be only a temporary solution - long enough to last until the cheaters write code.  it seems that a ripple instance would be perfect for this, since it is built precisely for keeping track of interpersonal credit. heh, i think sending the fibonacci sequence would be goodhttp://xkcd.com/289/1.1235813 or 11.23581321anyone with a modded client that lets you send full-precision amounts - go for it.  bitcoin matrix screensaver  looking good. that was def 40 btc well spent for the logo.  how about clearsigning your bids, mndrix?  i understand your concern... but trying to prevent dark pools is like alcohol and drug prohibition - it sounds good on paper, but it'll never work. every trade on bitcoin-otc is a 'dark pool' trade. every time someone buys on bitcoin4cash, it's a 'dark pool' trade - inasmuch as the bids and asks aren't visible, nor are trade amounts. so the "full dark" pool on mtgox is really nothing different - it is a separate market, like any other direct p2p exchanger.further, the iceberg-style orders, are exactly what can be achieved with a trading bot. so in fact, rather than giving an advantage to the big player, they spread it to the small player. since normally, only the large player would find in worthwhile to invest in running a bot, but the iceberg order type opens this strategy up to everyone, including the small players, iceberg in fact levels the playing field. so if your goal is to level the playing field between large and small players, you should in fact be in favor of the iceberg orders.the only really problematic order type, imo, is the current dark/light implementation, since as i describe in my earlier post, it disadvantages regular limit order placers. and i personally advocate for it to be removed (and replaced with iceberg). ooo interesting, mndrix.  here's a free idea for y'all. there's no need for exchanges to trust each other. what you need to do is set up a 'meta-exchange', which has accounts on all the major exchanges, and automatically gives the best price to a person placing an order on your metaexchange. in addition to that, the metaexchange would of course also have its own exchange with local user balances, the order book, etc.eventually, since the biggest aggregated order book will be on the metaexchange, it'll suck up most of the order volume from the other exchanges, thus becoming the biggest exchange.step 3: profit!  well, it is a mission because bitcoin is a very hard currency, while most of the popular means of transferring national fiat currency (e.g., paypal) are very soft (chargebacks). thus, it requires a lot of trust on the part of the bitcoin seller. which of course presents a problem to the potential bitcoin buyer.http://wiki.bitcoin-otc.com/wiki/Using_bitcoin-otc already has some good content to start with, though some of it is OTC specific, other (about safety and chargebacks) is not.it is already easy to use - click on the webchat link, and ask in channel if anyone's selling. of course, the problem is that most newbies want to buy for paypal and some such, which brings us to the trust issue as above. regardless of the mechanism of OTC registration (admittedly pgp is probably not too newbie-friendly), getting trust takes time, so with online p2p trading, nobody can expect to come in and start buying large quantities of bitcoin with soft payment methods.do you volunteer? if you have any ideas that could be used on OTC, i'd be glad to hear them.  the problem with this is that any distributedly-published orders are not binding, and therefore your 'order book' will fill up with all kinds of stuff. i know from direct experience, creating an inside bid/ask quote for OTC (http://bitcoin-otc.com/ticker.php) that you tend to end up with (a) stale orders, (b) joke orders (c) orders using some specific payment methods that as a result of their peculiarities have higher/lower pricing (e.g., cash in person in such and such city), etc.so aggregating order feeds from all sorts of places, you'll basically end up with a mishmash of all kinds of orders wherein "best ask" or "best bid" have little meaning.further, even if something is a legitimate order, you may not want to take it if you don't trust the counterparty.in all, i'd say don't expect from this any more than you'd expect from a simple list of bitcoin exchangers. which is not a bad thing in itself, mind you - just not as useful, in many ways, as an exchange that intermediates both sides of a transaction. davidonpda:wow, sad to see it go. while i never got around to registering myself, i was looking forward to seeing it in operation.i guess the problem was that there are plenty of other avenues of exchange by now, that going through the laborious KYC registration process when you could just... go elsewhere, didn't make sense for a most users.i suppose we'll just have to wait until someone like scottrade, or one of the big forex players, decides to add BTC to their trading options.  toffoo, addressing some issues you raise.re: dark-only orders being separated: indeed, they are completely separate, basically equivalent to bitcoin-central being separated from the OTC market and each being separated from mtgox. so indeed prices could drift between them, no different as they can drift between exchanges. my point is that since dark-only is essentially a separate exchange... there's no reason for me to even worry about what goes on there, if i don't want to use it.re: minimum price increment: the front-stepping by tiny fractions of a cent, using bots, is an issue that is exactly equivalent, whether we are talking about regular limit orders, or iceberg orders. hence, it is, IMO, something to be discussed separately, outside of the dark pool thread.re: extra cost of iceberg orders: i have no problem if in addition to the 'implicit cost' of forgoing priority for the dark portion of your order, the market raises the fee for the iceberg order type by a few tenths of a percent. together with the implicit cost, this should serve as sufficient discouragement from use of dark pool without good cause. the current implementation of the dark/open order cannot be accomplished with bots. see my post above. good stuff - i suggest you make a site (if you don't have one already), and post your entry into the main Trade page on the wiki. an issue of trust: how does a prospective interested party know you won't just walk away with the funds? haha, looks like you have just invented a new pastime: spam lending. the full db of ratings has a nice web interface:http://bitcoin-otc.com/viewratings.phpand also a cool contributed graph:http://corrupt.jails.se/~magnetronthe irc command 'gettrust' gives you level1 (direct) and sum of level2 (second degree) ratings. (more levels soon to come).so in fact... that's pretty much the direction OTC web of trust is leaning in.  Here's my take on the issue of dark pools.There are two parties that need to be considered when thinking about the 'fairness' of dark pools. One party is the prospective buyer or seller coming in and placing a market order. For this party, the existence of dark pools presents no disadvantage, since the at-market transaction only stands to be executed at a price that is strictly better than the bid/ask spread posted in the open order book. Thus far, this is the only party that has been considered in the discussion.The second party, is the people who place limit orders - namely the outstanding open bids and asks. When a party comes in, looks at the open orders, and places a limit order accordingly, it has expectation that say, given that a trade in amount X comes in on the buy or sell side, his order is going to be filled. If there is a hidden dark pool, however, he is operating on incomplete information when placing his order, and stands to get his order filled slower, or not at all. This is a clear disadvantage to the limit order placing parties.Thus, the dark pools in their current implementation, essentially take from the limit order placers and give to the market order placers and the dark pool order placers. This amounts to a 'taking' from one party to give to another, and is in my opinion not a good, or fair, thing to do.    I think the proper way to do dark pool orders is to use "iceberg orders", wherein a dark pool order entry gets two inputs, the total order quantity, and a display quantity. This is how it is currently done on exchanges that support dark pool liquidity in addition to open order book. I quote from the wikipedia article on dark pools, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dark_liquidity Note the defining feature of this style of dark pool: the dark pool order user gets the same priority as the other limit order placers, and once his display quantity is filled, he goes to the back of the queue. This way, there is no taking from the limit order placers. The fact that this type of order would fill slower than a fully-open order, would encourage people to put larger parts of their order into the open (as would the extra charge by the exchange, if it is instituted.)One final note: the current implementation of dark pools is NOT equivalent to what one could do with a bot, contrary to has been stated a couple times in this thread. When using a bot to continually maintain a smaller display order, one's whole order quantity is NOT prioritized over all outstanding limit orders. Rather, before the bot can react to replace the display quantity, any market orders coming through would be filled by other outstanding orders. In fact, you may notice that the activity that is achievable by a bot is exactly equal to the "iceberg orders" described above. Thus, those who would like to achieve equivalence to what could be done via botting, should vote to remove the current dark pool implementation and replace it with the "iceberg" order type.    These comments only apply to the dark/light order type, since the full-dark order is effectively completely separated from the rest of the market, I have no opinion on whether to keep it or do away with it, I think it is irrelevant.    Therefore, following from the reasoning above, I vote for the removal of the current style of dark/light order type, and its replacement by a proper iceberg-style order type, which does not take from the limit orders and give to the dark and market orders.     Given the available poll options, I chose the second option, namely, "keep it, but remove the dark/normal option". If there were an option to say "change dark/normal to a standard iceberg order" I would have voted for it, but there isn't.    I ask all participants in this poll to consider the above, and vote for either option 2 (remove dark/light, keep full-dark), or option 3 (remove both), if you agree.
so i guess you would be ok with any potential investors querying you for this information? since i have no trust established with him, it is irrelevant whether he's real or not. as your interconnectedness in the wot grows, being connected to real people who are also interconnected, is what will get things done.  now, a more important question, i think, is how do investors know they can trust you not to just walk away with the cash? Well, at the end of the day, different people estimate others' trustworthiness based on different criteria.Taking a short term loan, with the stated purpose of "just no get a trust rating" is in my book not that great of a trust increaser. That said, all else equal, if a person /i/ trust has conducted this transaction with nster, and got repaid, I suppose i'd trust nster more than if he had not done this. So maybe it works a bit, after all. Notice i said "a person i trust". if two guys neither of whom i know claim to trust each other, this does not increase my trust, since both those identities could be owned by the same person. See more details about relying on ratings here:http://wiki.bitcoin-otc.com/wiki/OTC_Rating_System#Relying_on_the_rating he said 3% per month, not per year. that comes out to about 42.5% per year  I could sell you a few thousand at $2 per btc. I'd want bank wire or similar non-reversible payment for them of course. though as others have said, unless you're in a huge huge hurry, you'd do better to accumulate them slowly on mtgox over a period of a few months. indeed, if you're doing autotrading, using the direct feed from bitcoincharts is more convenient. though since that only reports trades, while for a trading bot you'd also want the order book depth... it's probably not really useful by itself for a trading bot. you'd want to pull the book depth data for each individual market your bot trades in. in bitdns land, a 'double spend' would be someone trying to register a domain that has already been registered.the bitcoin chain is not just a distributed database, but also distributed timestamping service. if there's no block chain... how do you know that person1 registered the domain before person2? in bitcoinland, the sequence of blocks is the 'timeline'.  and by the way - freenode channel #bitcoin-market outputs the streaming quotes from the bitcoincharts feed, in a pretty format.so if you have a habit of hanging out on irc - join in and watch the bitcoin market activity scroll by! yes, but having each company start their own chain to trade its units of stock is not feasible, since securing a chain from attack (by throwing a bunch of gpus at it) is much more expensive for your average company than it would be to just pay someone to run a regular centralized database of shareholders.decentralized databases are great for some things. but in case where ultimately you are trusting $entity to not screw you (such as in investing in a company's stock)... you might as well trust the same entity to maintain a centralized database. just thinking out loud here.  haha yea. i almost missed his replies.  +1 to macrohard on all counts. looks good!  another feature request: ability to send funds, btc or usd, between users. i have the same question EDIT: seems to have shown up after 3 conf. cool. i think that's pretty important.well, ideally they'd be executed immediately upon entry of a matching order (a la mtgox).one other comment: from the home page, it seems there's no way to go to the account page. even if i have logged in, i just see 'home' 'about' and 'faq', there's no 'account' link. in order to get to the account page, i have to manually go to the account.php page. some questions:is there a way to view the outstanding order book?are orders filled instantly and automatically (like they are on mtgox), or is there a periodic cron job? got the usd and the btc - thanks  account number: 415863 escrowing BTC for the purpose of getting a loan denominated in BTC doesn't really make much sense.  if you have the btc to escrow, you wouldn't need the loan.escrowing other currencies or goods as collateral may work though.
Still some left - get yours before they're gone!  i'd suggest to leave it in for 'just in case' or for historical reasons or whatever... but take it off the main menu, and stick the option somewhere far in advanced preferences. and instead of calling it 'generate coins' call it something else, like 'generate blocks' or 'process blocks', and make a note that it's unlikely to net you any coin.this should pretty much solve the problem of people coming in and saying "omg i've been generating for 3 days and don't have any coins".though i guess i won't be against removing it completely, either. if you deposit it into your paypal account, it is instant.don't know the details of other methods though. and also consider putting it up as a tor hidden service.just in case.  no, difficulty is based on the number of blocks created /per unit of time/. https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Bitcoin_Map There are a few EUR orders on the bitcoin-otc order book. if you stick around there you can probably find someone willing to trade.  there are certain timestamp validity checks:https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Block_timestamp anything can be traded on #bitcoin-otc  so, not inflata-coin, just a different block bounty distribution over time, i see.the idea of indexing it to the difficulty is actually quite an interesting one, i think.as long as you keep the chain separate from the main block chain (so that the mainchain clients don't have to deal with the extra traffic from your fork that would be treated as invalid), i see nothing wrong with you giving it a try to see what happens. i still foresee some difficulty in attracting miners away from the main bitcoin chain and into the new one. early adopters need to be able to expect a higher compensation than the later adopters, in order to be convinced to put their effort in, at a time when the risk is highest. on this metric, main bitcoin still has you beat. but compared to inflata-coin, it's a lot better in this respect if, while you are at it, you also put in some other improvements (or things that some people would perceive as improvements), e.g., more decimal places of divisibility, etc., it may have some future. just to clarify: these are invites to the main diaspora pod, at joindiaspora.com, run by the diaspora devs.diaspora is a distributed social network with better privacy control, and built entirely on Free open source software.In addition to contacting me over IRC, feel free to send a forum PM as well. But IRC would be faster.  well, i think the main point is this:now that current bitcoin exists, nobody in his right mind would trade current-bitcoins for inflata-coins, because they know that current-bitcoin ultimately has a limited supply, and is likely to increase in value, while the new inflata-coin will not. so... nobody stops you from creating inflata-coin - it is a simple change of about 5 lines of code in the current bitcoin client, and you're off to the races with your new inflata-coin block chain. (well, that and you have to create a new genesis block). if you inflata-coin supporters want to get together and jump onto the inflata-coin block chain, nobody's stopping you, give it a go, and see what happens.that's what satoshi did - rather than arguing about deflata-coin (current bitcoin  ), he just came out and did it to see what happens, in an experimental fashion. so do the same.my prediction, however, is that you'll have a hard time attracting significant mining power. question: is it possible to do this without installing any software? just sign up? Selling diaspora invites, at 2btc each.If interested, talk to me on freenode IRC, nick nanotube, channel #bitcoin-otc as far as the 'building up your trust' issue goes, take a look at the bitcoin-otc web of trust (links in sig) you seem to have an incorrect understanding of fractional reserve, more specifically, of what the 'reserve' percentage means.in the case you describe, having 100btc deposit, and lending out all 100btc, you end up with 0% reserve, not 50%. A bank cannot lend out more btc than it actually has.please consult the following for more details:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fractional-reserve_banking indeed, as i've mentioned several times in various discussions before, setting the reserve ratio anywhere between 100 and 0 percent is simply a tradeoff between riskiness and profitability. I will not be surprised if real fractional reserve bitcoin banking does arise, and various stated reserve ratios will simply attract different clientele. try asking on bitcoin-otc irc chan, too. (links in sig) See also another great anti-deflation service: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4782.0 As a complementary service to noagenda's anti-deflationary scheme (http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=4780.0) I hereby introduce the Bitcoin Fractional Reserve Bank, to pull the meager bitcoin economy out of the deflationary spiral of doom! By lowering our reserve requirements over time, we can arbitrarily extend the inflationary period of bitcoin, and thus counteract the hard-coded reductions in bitcoin creation rate!The current reserve ratio is set at a respectable 90 percent, and will be halved every time the bitcoin block bounty is halved (every 210000 blocks). All deposits are backed by the Fractional Deposit Insurance Corporation), up to a maximum amount of 0 bitcoins. All deposits carry an attractive 0% interest rate, which is in the top 5% of all bitcoin depositary institutions! Further, we are well prepared to deal with any bank run-style event. In addition to the solid backing by the FracDIC, we are prepared to close our doors and suspend operations, until the depositors clamoring for their funds walk away in defeat and frustration.So, deposit your bitcoins into the BFRB, and I promise to lend out 10% (current rate - will vary in tandem with bitcoin block bounty) of the money you deposit, thus inflating the money supply beyond the built in bitcoin limit! Do it for yourself, do it for the bitcoin economy, do it for me! * offer not available in stores. shipping and handling charges may apply. limit one account per person.
so say you're running some site like... maybe coinpal , and you want to allow people to prove to you that they own an ebay account with X feedback. would you prefer to (a) do this automagically with some gpg verification code, or (b) hire a verifymonkey to do it manually?or, say you're on #bitcoin-otc and someone fairly new is offering a trade, and claims that he has a good ebay or amazon rating. would you rather go to their claimed ebay profile, and manually copy the string and verify gpg key, or run "getebaytrust <nick>" (or getamazontrust <nick>) and have automatic verification done for you?hope you get the idea.  EDIT: heh, mndrix has stated the issue much more concisely, and with less snark, to boot.  mmm you seem to be missing the whole point - it /is/ supposed to be automatically parsed. is there any benefit to going uri-style?  please check out the rfc for the gpg identity protocol, posted in this thread:http://wiki.bitcoin-otc.com/wiki/GPG_Identity_Protocolcomments appreciated.  Mndrix and I (and a couple other discussants) have developed an exportable GPG identity protocol. http://wiki.bitcoin-otc.com/wiki/GPG_Identity_ProtocolQuick summary: "This page outlines the protocol for exporting your GPG identity to other sites which may or may not support GPG authentication directly. The basic idea is that you can post a GPG-signed message to some area of your user account on the site, connecting your site id with your key via the signature, and then others can verify your signature and be certain that you are the same person on multiple sites. Please check it out - your feedback (please post in this thread) would be appreciated.In the future, I will be putting in the code on #bitcoin-otc to automagically query people's identities and ratings in various communities based on their OTC GPG auth, mndrix may implement it for coinpal, and hopefully other sites in the bitcoin community can join in so that we can create a broader web of trust. wires are more expensive.ach - if you can do it, probably just as good. yep, that works. unfortunate that they mangle input.also, i notice that it is possible to create custom categories in the bio - so maybe that can go under 'pgp key' category  yes, i confirm that the myworld pages are in fact world-readable.mndrix: your comments on my 'standardization' proposal would be appreciated.  actually, posting either just the key or just the id is not enough to verify anything, since i can post /anyone's/ key. what you need to do is post a clearsigned message saying "i, user <username> on ebay, hereby declare my ownership of <keyid>, as of <date>", signed with said key.that'll prove to any onlooker, without having to do any additional steps like sending you encrypted email or whatnot, that you indeed own the key.(date is included just in case ebay drops usernames, and someone else comes in to use it - the new guy's 'registered at' date would then be later than your posted date.)now... question is where can one post a persistent bit of text (even a pastebin url) on your ebay account... as it happens, there's a great place for that - your 'bio' on your 'my world' page ( http://myworld.ebay.com/<your_ebay_username> ). we could even fix up some kind of standard, where a signed message containing your ebay nick, keyid, and a datestamp can be fetched by other places (e.g., the OTC bot  ), and once verified with your authed GPG key id, spits out your feedback summary.the wonders of GPG! comments appreciated. indeed, that is not a very likely scenario. while stolen pp accounts are numerous, the intersection of (stolen pp accounts) & (coinpal users) & (thief aware of coinpal and bitcoin and using the coinpal tx history info to steal btc) seems quite small very cool.  now if only you add a couple of form fields for pgpkey, and signed verification message, and then a query url by keyid with json output... i could get it working on the OTC channel.  you seem to misunderstand how these shared wallets work. maybe that is beyond belief?   but how is that useful for /others/ who want to verify what Bob's rating is? doesn't that mean that bob has to reveal his supersecretkey in order to allow others to query and verify his account? just a note that the trading history of "john doe" would be pretty useless without any ways to verify that the guy you're talking to is the same guy. if trade history doesn't include paypal email - /anyone/ can claim any trade history.if history does include paypal email, then someone who gained access to that paypal account can claim it, and then the real owner will charge back. (and we all know how many stolen paypal accounts there are floating about)if history includes something like gpg key - it becomes a lot more trustworthy. pgp keys can of course also be compromised, but stolen pgp keys are much less likely than stolen paypal passwords, since these tend not to be targeted by the run of the mill trojans out there. (yet) so in summary: definitely a good idea to allow people to verify a gpg key to include on that page. another possibility: hash of phone number? finally: yes working with daniel on the ripple bits.  stay tuned. nice idea! consider joining #bitcoin-otc too. the order book is pretty deep, and it's always easy to find someone to trade, if the price is right.  percontation point to the rescue!http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irony_punctuation have you considered the following: dwolla, bank ach, check by mail? yea, i think that particular bit is quite telling.e.g., if i were merely the recipient of stolen btc, rather than the actual thief, i'd be like "hey, i paid for these fair and square, i don't owe you anything" usually no fees are required.see this page for current fee schedule:https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Transaction_fees i've used ripple to keep track of loan interest. works great. 
try the bitcoin-otc marketplace. (link in sig) one word: inflation.via inflation, government takes your money (reduces purchasing power of your money). regardless of whether your money is squeaky clean, or dirty as dirt, government will take some of it via inflation on a continuous basis.  it is possible in theory, but there are problems as far as determining "the time", and it would require all (or majority) of clients to be upgraded to the new version. bitcoin-otc has no limitations on what currencies can be traded.there are offers on the book in AUD.give it a look. (links in sig) could also try for json instead of xml. json seems to be easier to work with, and is also the accepted standard for representing various bitcoin data structures on output by the various tools currently in existence. great talk gavin. now, where can i invest in some of that stone money? i'm not sure i like the intangibility of bitcoins... haha well, if you keep a separate wallet for your generation, you could.  have you seen the bitcoin-otc web of trust? (link in sig) try #bitcoin-otc, maybe.  (link in sig) mndrix: a suggestion for youyou should also offer to buy bitcoin in exchange for paypal.no risk for you, plus way to refill your bitcoin stock. there has been some talk on #bitcoin-otc about demand for ability to sell bitcoins at a fixed price without having to deal with forex trading on the markets. oscon proposal deadline almost herecurious if anyone has done anything about this? libertyreserve doesn't ever reverse transactions. they're trying to be a 'hard currency'. so you're pretty much SOL there.  i for one would prefer this approach to completely restarting the chain. so in other words... you agree. ok.  suggestion:henceforth, 1e-8 bitcoins will be called "a bitcoin".all bitcoin amounts will henceforth be integers. sending 1 "oldbtc" to someone? just send 10million 'newbtc'.solves all problems very neatly.and also removes any psychological barriers around having "1 btc = 100usd"EDIT: that said, i essentially like gavin's proposal, except for the cosmetics.  since he's the one with the hard currency (lrusd), should be easy to get ~ 1:1 exchange for ppusd or some such, on bitcoin-otc. yea how do we know if you yourself didn't send out the 50 btc before posting it.  or people interested in not losing their bitcoins due to some site either (a) absconding with people's bitcoins or (b) getting compromised and having its bitcoins stolen...until there are real corps out there, with real account insurance and everything (think SIPC), i can't really recommend anyone to stick all their bitcoin wealth onto $randomsite. Code:gpg --encrypt --default-recipient-self $PATHTOBITCOINWALLETi can haz 50btc nao?  nice service, and i wish you best of luck with it.but for your information:190*12+1600 gbp = 3880 gbp = 6176 usdat 6176 usd, at a price of .4 usd, you can get 15440 btcat 1 ghps, with current difficulty, avg time per block is about 1 day. so you can generate 365 blocks per year with this, or 365*50 = 18250 btchowever, difficulty will almost certainly go up from where it is now. in fact, at the next estimated difficulty of 22037.22945411, your expected yearly generation at 1ghps is already down to 16590 btc or so.so, it seems a better deal, if you have the 3880 gbp to spend on this, to just buy bitcoins on the marketplace at current market price.
seehttps://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Buying_bitcoins i might suggest to stay away from 'pal' completely. how about something nice and generic, like 'bitcoinsource' then you can use the same site for paypal, dwolla, $anything else.  i wouldn't hurry too much to raise the limits. you'll get plenty of volume due to high number of customers, while keeping fraud risk from any individual account low. you have a great service there, i'd hate to see it go bust due to one or two large frauds. hahain case of bitcoin, not quite "в бесконечности" since there's a precision limit for bitcoins of 8 decimal places. it'll run out of precision in 32 halvings of the block bounty (currently 50 coins per block, after 32 halvings, 0.00000001 bitcoins per block. halvings occur in 210k block intervals, which is approximately 4 years (if ~10 min per block). so after approx 128 years (plus 2 years that still remain in the first 210k block chunk), new bitcoin production will stop. so 2011 + 130 = year 2141, that all bitcoins will be generated.of course, all that is assuming that the precision won't be adjusted sometime along the way.(sorry for english, but i couldn't be arsed to go all translit.ru on you.  ) well, that's why it pays to use delivery confirmation on mail that's worth > $100. things are much less likely to get lost that way, for only a few bucks more.as for larger amounts... mtgox takes bank wire and ach transfers in for larger chunks of usd, so that's probably your best bet. К тому же количество денежных единиц (биткойнов) в ближайшие годы асимптотически приблизится к 21 000 000 и перестанет растигод 2100+ == ближайшие годы? дальнозоркий взгляд на мир у вас, однако.  .40/btc  (price subject to change until we talk live and reach agreement) so... any progress on this?  you can connect to freenode via tor.and there's also an i2p-freenode irc relay established on #bitcoin-discussion channel.so take your pick.  i like this idea. the funds can come from the auctioneer's fees, or from opt-in by the sellers (sellers have incentive to opt in, if it means their items sell for more in the end).  for reference, it's exactly like ebay's proxy bit system, that you can read about in detail on ebay's website somewhere. EDIT: gah, beaten by biddingpond's reply.  oh nice!i've been talking with daniel and using his raindroplet branch with bitcoin to good effect. when's ripplepay going to have btc as a supported currency?  your browser is the easiest. just clicky this link:http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#bitcoin-otc indeed, when i did a switchback from my build with bdb4.8 to the official build, i had to delete database/log* files in order for it to work.that said, all the important bits (wallet) and the not-so-important bits (block chain and index) were just fine.the testing is being done to see if there are any issues for switching the official build to 4.8 (in which case, there shouldn't be a reason for people to go back) 4.8 worked on ubuntu lucid (10.04) 32bit with no problems. i bet he means 'first commit to gavin's repo in channel logs'   so you'd rather not have the dark pools at all, i take it? dark pools do add stability to the market price. but at the cost of transparency.davout: have you given any thought to the idea of compromising between transparency and stability, by hiding only the dark pool order volume, but not the fact that an order exists? what kind of bonus points? if they're in form of btc... i'll send you an encrypted email, just to say hello.  ok, i didn't want to do it... but it looks like you guys force my hand. selling 5000btc at 1.288 usd each! it's my final offer! 
hey me too! count me in!   if that's your goal, go for "I". twice as easy as 'X'!   0.01 btc, for you to change name to "bobby tables" (http://xkcd.com/327/).  cool! best be very careful with that. yea, don't switch out... if you want, have a radio button that switches the pricings around... but i think the default pricing way should stay because that's what all the other markets do. hey,freenode does allow you to use tor... see http://freenode.net/irc_servers.shtml#tor nothing wrong with a little competition.  that said, these two things are not mutually exclusive. one can advertise here, and also elsewhere.further, this exchange is foss... so that means people can set up country-local exchanges easily with this code, which will grow the bitcoin pie. put up a sign... make sure to have a computer with an internet connection... and off you go.  good idea  hey... i know it is obvious to people who know what's up... but it wouldn't hurt if you disclose the nature of the beast in your OP.  indeed, running a business of trading 'cash-like goods' for paypal is dangerous. but occasional one-off p2p small trades... are probably ok if you can establish trust. nice! too bad i'm not in eu-land.  if the guy is pulling from bank balance, then there's no issue about 'chains of theft'. you only need to trust the sender not to be a dick, and that's all.  yes, freenode.see http://bitcoin-otc.com/ for details. chargebacks. it's safe to give it... not so safe to receive it.so for example... you pay someone via paypal, they send you bitcoins. then you claim you never received goods, and chargeback the receiver. now you walk away with both the bitcoins and the usd.another alternative: someone uses stolen paypal account, receives btc... then real owner comes in and goes 'zomg, someone used my account, paypal help me', and paypal does a chargeback. end result, still the same that seller of bitcoins has ended up with nothing.so in other words... paypal is very safe for the buyer of goods... but not safe for the seller. afaik, you don't need to have the regular bitcoin client running in order to use the pool, since the pool acts as your bitcoind instance. 100925 blocks. 75 blocks until auction end.  mm, raffle could be a nice attention getter.  er... handing out thousands of usb sticks... that's gonna be even more expensive than an $1000 official booth. :|how about a printed pamphlet with some brief intro info pulled from the wiki... some links (including the bitcoin faucet), and call it a day on the distributed materials? I think it would be pretty great exposure for bitcoin, if someone knowledgeable about the internal workings of bitcoin were to submit a proposal to OSCON 2011 (http://www.oscon.com/oscon2011) for a talk about bitcoin. The place is full of all kinds of FOSS ethusiasts, and besides the costs of making your way to Portland, Oregon, USA, it would be completely free (I think).So... anyone up for it? Gavin, Jgarzik, Theymos? Bueller? 
https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Getting_startedhttps://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/How_bitcoin_worksstart with those, and follow the links.  hack the system - set up a mobile infobooth/stand outside the event for free!  hahaha good ones y'all.  modern keyloggers take screenshots on every mouse click...  * nanotube \o/  try also bitcoin-otc.  http://bitcoin-otc.com  we may have some alertpay users on there. i think taking it slow rather than fast is not a bad idea. also, consider requiring verified paypal accounts, and doing email confirmation for the primary email listed on the paypal account, as extra steps to avoid fraud. also, daily paypal spending limits for users just starting without much of a reputation, is probably a good idea as well.that said... starting with a core of known and trusted users... you already can easily have dozens of approved paypal users to start with, and go from there. just throwing out some ideas.  decentralization is already planned by the ripple project itself.see http://ripple-project.org/Main/PotentialRippleClients (particularly the link to the 'funding pool')see also https://groups.google.com/group/rippleusers/browse_thread/thread/200a0b999702e33aso, you would do better to join the existing ripple effort rather than starting out on your own from scratch. Indeed, trust both ways is necessary. All that said - consider using #bitcoin-otc for your transaction. We have a web of trust and all.  http://bitcoin-otc.com in addition to invitation, it would take explicit approval to use paypal - i.e., personal reputation with dwdollar, or the vouching of other high-reputation people. so just inviting a bunch of fake users won't grant you paypal access.  yea, vps was down for a few minutes. all back up now. hopefully the credit-network features will eventually be merged into main ripple project... but for now, we need some dev work to get stuff operational in raindroplet, so if anyone is up for helping out with the dev, feel free to pipe up.  Well, fwiw, i have signed up I think that once the credit rating and credit network exploration features are developed, this will become a very good trust metric for the bitcoin community. (E.g., if I trust user1, and I see that he has given an unknown-to-me user2 a nice credit line... I'll be inclined to trust user2 as well to some extent.)Eventually, we could even transition the OTC web of trust (http://trust.bitcoin-otc.com) over to ripple, maybe.  i'd agree to that. you know, i'm not so sure having 'market orders' is such a great idea at all, given the relatively low volume in the markets, especially in some currencies (e.g., gau). it introduces extra complexity for you, and extra uncertainty for the participants. if someone wants to buy at current market price, just put in a limit order with a sufficiently high limit price. i smell bs. the primary number system in common use is decimal, and multiplying/dividing by powers of 10 is the easiest thing to do. here's an experiment: divide 100000 by 32 in your head, quick! yea, thought so, not so easy is it? now divide it by 100? pretty instant, no? if you think i'm cheating by using powers of 10 for the initial number... how about dividing 1048576 by 32 in your head? now how about by 100? unless you're a coder used to dealing in powers of 2, you're not going to produce the result 1048576/32 instantly in your head. see also http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1902.0maybe you can save some effort if you work together cool, i think it would be a great alternative for mobile clients, for those who don't want to trust third parties like mybitcoin. all you need to do is set up your bitcoind client and this interface on your own server... then with any browser you can make payments, and check for received payment, with a mobile device of your choice. There should be an easy way to tag a post, thread, or user, as spam, with a comment, to bring it to moderators' attention. As it is, there seems to be no way at all to do that other than finding a moderator to PM, which is inefficient.At the very least... with zero extra development effort, we could maybe set up a thread where people can post to report spam posts/threads/users, that moderators should review regularly.I nominate this thread. And I start by pointing out this user: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=3108he seems to have just registered and posted some inane posts, just to get some links in his sig pointing to some hyip stuff out there. doh, forgot to look at the -dev package. thanks, that did it. 
yea, except you run into a problem of coin duplication. i can make 20 coins with the same address (which has 1 btc associated with it), and pass them all off as 1btc worth. unless there's some kind of a central registry of coins by address+owner, so that one can check that the guy who's passing him the coin is indeed the only owner of a coin with such and such address, etc... but then you lose the 'decentralized' bit. yea, just use scientific notation... 1e-3 btc, 1e-6 btc. easy enough. or you can go for full SI prefixes milliBTC, microBTC...  shipping included? running ./configure for the .5 release, i get this:Code:configure: error: Missing required libcurl >= 7.10.1this is on ubuntu lucid 32bit, with libcurl 7.19.7-1ubuntu1 installed.any thoughts on why it'd think 7.19.7 is not >= 7.10.1 ? what's your coin recovery mechanism when someone breaks into your house and steals your stash of cash and valuables? the 'stolen bitcoin' recovery mechanism is exactly the same. i think gavin's bitcointools can already extract keys from wallet? nice summary.  also try bitcoingateway.com, and bitcoin-otc.combut yea madhatter is reputable so if cash in the mail works for you, go for it.  nice site! hehe nice touch with the video.  yea, good point.and wow, did ebay's final value fee shoot up in the recent months/years, or what? iirc it used to be like 2 percent? pm received and replied to.  75 percent seems really low. you can usually get upwards of 95 percent if you sell it on ebay.(then, of course, use the USD you get to buy bitcoins  ). you got a deal on moneypak. send me a pm, or look me up on irc.  fwiw, i'm not a fan of that idea... but full disclosure: i'm only mining on CPU  I have written up a description of your system on the wiki a few days ago:https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Pooled_Mininghope it saves you some explaining time in the future.  it is if people want to answer.  except bitcoin-otc. everything is possible on -otc.  i suggest you send the guy an email to clarify the procedures. i never used bitcoin4cash myself... also consider using https://www.bitcoin4cash.com/
pooled bitcoin miner (pbm).  there's already quite a bit of trading for various tx methods going on on #bitcoin-otc. paypal, bank transfer, moneypak, cash... even some short-term options have been traded.  with that amount, you can just wire funds to mtgox directly, and avoid the LRUSD completely (along with the extra exchange and transfer fees).on the mtgox page, go to "add funds" and select 'wire' for instructions. when you set up your account, you can set the 'refund address' to whatever you want it to be.and you can change it as many times as you like. because nobody wants to wait half a year to get his bitcoins. ooh, i like some of those ideas. i'll take your "Make a page editable only if you send as much as the previous person or more." and raise you "Make the amount required to change what the previous person posted decay with time. Starting at >= what previous person paid, and dropping by 5% every hour."(this way you don't eventually get someone who 'outbids' everyone else willing to play) what is your usd/btc rate?  sorry bober... i was hanging out there... thinking should i or shouldn't i bid... then i saw block 97999, and figured, why not.  that sounds like a good idea.  payment sent. davout: well, you're a little undershooting it... at current diff, it's closer to 90ghps for 10 minutes. and the current 'next estimate' is based on the average of the generation speed in this chunk, which, if it is growing, is under the actual speed at the tip.just fyi. your basic argument about the ballpark cost being relatively small is still valid. btw, grondilu, for future sales: you might get more interest for a share that is currently paying dividends.  well, no... brokers have official account books... if a broker dies, you don't have to worry about getting your shares. (not to mention that a brokerage firm is usually not a single guy, and further to mention that these firms have insurance against various losses that may happen).yes, of course. i was just pointing out the risks to potential bidders. so essentially... once someone buys the share from you, he'd have to trust you /in perpetuity/ to keep delivering any possible future dividends. and trust you not to get hit by a truck at some point, or if you do, to trust you to put it in your will that "this ebay share belongs to some guy" when they distribute your assets after your demise?not sure i like that proposition.  haven't read the whole thread... but here's the framework as i see it, back to basics. with 30 percent of total cpu capacity, a party has 30% chance of generating any given block, and "the rest of the network" has 70% chance. to run the "reject other blocks" attack, as i understand it, i'll generate a block but keep it to myself, while continuing to work on generating a block that builds on top of my hidden block. so, let's say that I generated a block. now, i have two choices. choice one - i release it to the network, and claim my 50btc, and start working on my second block, which i then later also release and claim my next 50 btc.choice two - i keep it hidden, and work on generating another block building on top of my secret block, all the while the rest of the network is still toiling away on the first block. in order for me to make the network 'waste power', in other words, in order to be able to trash the rest-of-network's block, i need to be able to generate another block after the rest-of-network generates one block, but before the rest of the network generates two blocks. the probability that the network will generate 2 blocks while i'm working on the next block is .7*.7 = .49.  so /given that i have generated one block/, i have a 51percent chance of making the network lose a block, and a 49% chance of losing my own block. what's the expected value of this proposition? 51% chance of keeping 100btc for my two blocks, costing the network 1 block... and 49% chance of losing both blocks and having nothing to show for it.in all, a losing proposition, if i ever saw one. now, if my goal is simply to make the network slower - i can see this working. if my goal is to somehow make a profit... i don't see how. how are people to have any guarantees that you won't just walk away with the funds? try the #bitcoin-otc channel. see http://bitcoin-otc.com for info. bitcoins don't have that many decimal places.  no.  no worries amigo - we already know from an upstream post. 
An address seems to have been posted on the i2p site:http://www.i2p2.de/donate.htmlUnfortunately... it is neither of the two addresses posted so far... I hope the situation with "max stirner" is resolved - hopefully he's legit and will forward the donation to the i2p project... otherwise... i guess we can let that be a lesson that a donation address is not a valid address until posted on the official project site... yea, i just thought having a stable channel for auction would create more of a permanent user base, and thereby possibly more action on any given auction.  it was just a bid... also, prices on mtgox are, fyi: "buy":0.208,"sell":0.2278if you see someone buying at .3, let me know  since mtgox promises to cover the paypal held funds (and i, for one, trust his promise), this would not happen with a run on mtgox. haha, seems like it.... no it doesn't. you can receive on a single address multiple times. grondilu: by the way, i have created the #bitcoin-auction channel for conducting irc auctions. should be a fun place, once more people start auctioning their stuff. in the meantime... you're welcome to use it for your coin auction when we approach block 100k.  besides the possibility of storing NS records in addition to just registrations... the theymos+nanotube spec does exactly what you suggest.  how about http://bitcoingateway.com ? can buy bitcoins with creditcard? but if you get paid just as much by mining pure bitcoin without the side hashing... sounds excellent in theory... seems that the miner would have to basically do "extra work". and if there's no reward from the bitdns mining from the extra work (which of course, slows down the main bitcoin work), what would be a miner's incentive to include bitdns (and whatever other side chains) ?very curious to hear your further thoughts on this.  indeed, it's possible that mtgox is filled with 'shill offers'... that doesn't really change anything. if a shill-offer is offering to sell bitcoins at .20 usd/btc... and you accept it, you just bought some btc at .20. it doesn't matter if it was from a 'real person' or some 'puppetmaster' who is orchestrating a bunch of shill offers. in fact, there probably are some offers being managed by trading bots... just like on "the real stockmarket". as long as trading is going on at price X, that is de-facto what the 'price' is. what we have in mind is that anyone can put up a dns server at a moment's notice, by just reading the appropriate window in the block chain, and populating their dns database. so in effect, our system is also just about registration - the dns servers are separate entities, that simply read the protocol, and convert it into standard DNS record format to serve.we talk about dns servers as they'd be necessary to 'complete the loop' in making a usable system, and we plan on releasing code for a reference dns server, so that they can spring up all over the world  - but strictly speaking servers are separate from the bitdns protocol itself. yes, #bitcoin is best, /if we can get it/. according to my information at the time of posting this poll, the group registration process was backed up for /years/, hence my desire to use another channel rather than waiting for all this time.some more recent information from jgarzik suggests that it may be possible to push it through within weeks - if that does turn out to be the case, of course #bitcoin will be the channel of choice. who generates the bit-foo blocks? who ensures the integrity of the bit-foo block chain?in order for the hash of bit-foo block to be actually linked to the backlink... something somewhere must be storing that data, and verifying the hashes...further, and possibly more importantly, to prevent double-spending attacks on the bitfoo chain, the bitx generators must be able to deep-inspect the content of the bitfoo block, to make sure there are no double-spends in it. this means that with your current setup, bitx is /not/ in fact app-agnostic, but must know about the details of every foo/bar app that's trying to get in. consider also that it's possible to encode data into the bitcoin blockchain already, merely by specially crafting the transaction. (See the 'first' option on http://privwiki.dreamhosters.com/wiki/Bitcoin_DNS_System_Proposal#Overcoming_potential_resistance_bitcoin_developers.2Fcommunity ). alternatively, only timestamping and proof of expense (i.e., a regular transaction with a fee) may be used, pushing off the actual data storage off to external service (see 'third' option, ibid.)but why not make it easier on everyone and just allow say, 64 or 128 bytes of random data in a transaction? it seems that in the net, these side-band uses of bitcoin will only serve to increase the security of the network, by increasing the mining incentive, and bringing on more generation power. you seem to be suggesting that somehow there would be a general "bitx" chain, which all the different apps use, and thus there's no fragmentation of cpu power. sounds theoretically nifty... but how would you achieve that? the point of bitcoin is that it makes it expensive, and verifiable, to insert data into the chain. if you have a separate chain that doesn't actually have any data in it... then how do you tie the 'apps' into it? it seems that you have not offered even an inkling of an approach that would make it possible? or am i wrong and i missed something in the upstream post? if it happens, that'd be great. if not... we'll have the results of this poll to go on.  I posted a poll on channel name selection on the forum:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2159.0 Some background:The #bitcoin channel on freenode is orphaned - we have no ops, and due to freenode's group registration being pretty much dead, are not about to get them any time soon.For now, community discussion has been going on in #bitcoin-dev, but as our user base grows, it will be helpful to separate general discussion from development-related discussion.To this end, we need to create a channel for non-dev IRC chatter. If you are an IRC user, please vote on the alternatives, or suggest a new one. 
problem is, #bitcoin is orphaned. we have no ops there, and will not for the foreseeable future. the first time the channel is attacked by trolls/spambots/etc, you will suddenly realize that it's good to have ops. that's the reason we currently recommend #bitcoin-discussion, because we have control of that channel. +1 for bitcoin-otc.  nice idea, nelisky  we'd need an email server capable of handling this, though. also, the 'hashcash' idea has been tried (see hashcash.org), but has never garnered much adoption. and bitcoin is, at the end of the day, a form of hashcash.but i'd be curious to see what comes out.  s/outlook/thunderbird/  yes, refunds are a good idea. though it may be simpler to just be able to whitelist certain addresses so they don't require payment...  just to throw in a little bit of optimism here , if the piratebay dot-p2p guys 'see the light' than this system is better than theirs, and decide to get behind it, this has a pretty good chance of getting wider adoption.  yep.  that said, the big barrier is bitcoin adoption... and it won't necessarily be any better than existing systems where the sender gets an autoresponse, where he can click a link to confirm his real-personhood. but still, a good possibility, for those of us who are important yes it would - but as long as /i/ don't see the extra traffic, it's not my problem.  just to be clear, it's nanotube's+theymos's proposal and, we're still working out some kinks in the protocol. consider this to be an open RFC period. it's a bit too early for 'consensus'.  great, that opens the market for a hashcash-style email system of spam prevention. "Your email is being held in a delivery queue, pending confirmation that you're a real person. If you want me to read your email, please send 0.05 btc to this address: <bitcoin address>, to release the email for delivery."  i do the same thing... but let me ask you - how about your private half of the gpg keypair? do you have any backups of that, and if so, where do you keep them and how do you keep them safe, etc.? cuz with gpg encrypted backups, if you lose your key, you're sol? if you have a recent backup, use it, and try to open it in the .17 release client. preferably gui, so you can see all transactions at a glance. haha, i guess they added a couple of zeros to that 1%.  can't be any more of a pain than LR is...  so does mtgox, also with no fee. just deposit btc, withdraw btc - you'll get /different/ coins, since mtgox has a lot of btc balance, and a bitcoin client tries to use older coins first.mike, your 'laundry' is rather ineffective, if you don't pool coins from multiple users and users tend to always get their own coins back. i trust chaord, but still, those are legitimate questions, and i think chaord would do well to detail his data treatment procedures, in order to foster trust from the community. (and hopefully, those details include not storing cleartext cc numbers, as slush suggests  ). you can use webchat.freenode.net to connect and join. tcatm: could you please post a csv or tab-delimited data file with the data?  RHorning: thanks for that imho-excellent summary of the various areas of "IP" law. A couple questions of opinion for you: 1. if 17 years was enough in 1789, when the pace of economic activity was much slower, and it took a lot more time to ramp up production distribution of... everything, really, wouldn't you think that a shorter time period would be appropriate for the modern day? (assuming the goal is to 'give the creator enough time to profit by his creation'.)2. if copyright is abolished completely, do you think the social cost of the reduction (if any) of rate of 'content creation' would be greater than the social benefit of free access for everyone to all available content? Fwiw, my personal answers to those questions are 1. definite yes, and 2. quite unlikely. * nanotube cheers chaord on.  So let me just double-check this... you say he published under CC-BY, rather than under public domain, eh? And while I'm here - I am quite willing to /entertain/ the idea of abolishing copyright altogether (though in my current thinking I lean toward a reduction of terms to something like 5 years instead, at least to start with, rather than complete abolishment). The problem is that /currently/ copyright does exist, and IMHO a more effective way to fight it is copyleft licensing, rather than PD, since with PD you're basically saying here bad guys, take my stuff, even though you refuse to let me do the same with your stuff, I'm going to be the doormat. With GPL and friends, you give as good as you're getting. normally, you'd generate a separate address for each transaction. that's how you match orders with payments. otherwise there's no way to tell, if you happen to have two orders for the same amount, who sent the payment.
haha yea - someone should send a message to those guys and suggest that they accept bitcoin. well, if you read perens's analysis of the case, the very permissive 'artistic license' made the case for the 'good side' more difficult. 'public domain' would have even worse issues. i'm specifically referring to the second link i posted:http://itmanagement.earthweb.com/features/article.php/3866316/Bruce-Perens-Inside-Open-Sources-Historic-Victory well, more power to you, whatever makes you happy.but as i see it, protesting thievery by leaving your valuables on the sidewalk is not a functional long-term strategy.  i will do just that, then, my friend apparently you have not heard of the rather famous JMRI court case.Here are some links you may find enlightening:http://itmanagement.earthweb.com/osrc/article.php/3775446/Bruce+Perens:+A+Big+Change+for+Open+Source.htmhttp://itmanagement.earthweb.com/features/article.php/3866316/Bruce-Perens-Inside-Open-Sources-Historic-Victoryhttp://perens.com/works/testimony/PerensJMRI.pdfin brief: 'good guy' writes foss software. licensis it under the weak "artistic license". 'bad guy' goes and makes a closed-source offshoot of it, even files some patents, and then sues the original author for infringing his patent/copyright.if you read bruce perens' analysis, the case was made much harder since the weak 'artistic license' was used. after you're done with that, might want to see bruce's analysis of foss licenses: http://itmanagement.earthweb.com/osrc/article.php/3803101/Bruce-Perens-How-Many-Open-Source-Licenses-Do-You-Need.htmIn summary... I'm firmly in the camp of using copyleft-style licenses. If i make something and give it out for free, I want the takers to return the favor.  does trading in the market count? (aka, 'exchange services'  ), or do you only count 'real goods and services' for the challenge? let's start a guessing game. i claim $100!  sorry, that's outside of my control... i can send you your .5 btc back if you like - but then once they let you back in, you'll send it back to me  or you could just wait a bit.  my understanding is that you should be able to both pull (borrow) and push (prepay) along a credit path. also you should look into ripple-project.org  which version of gpl? and... if pot is reached, will you post code on say, github, and continue development? yes, when it gets to the point that fees really make a difference in speed of getting into the chain... i might send a larger fee for transactions i want to be fast, and smaller or none where i don't care about speed (e.g., donations).  hey, no, it's not google wave 2.0, it's more like facebook 2.0...that said, if you want an invite, i've got one to sell for .5btc.look me up on freenode irc, or send me pm on forum. +1 for this. eliminate the bank altogether - route credit through web of trust. P.S. best thread ever!  simple: artist can decide whether to take what's been collected and release the file, or return all contributions and keep the file to himself. Invite received in good order, thanks!  i'll take one. pm me here on the forum or on irc.  yea, i also think that the 'send coins' dialog is a better place for it. or at least, to have it in both. you might be able to do this on top of ripple (ripple-project.org)people can 'accumulate' ripple credits, which can be 'settled' with bitcoins once they reach a certain amount. that's what the "added transaction fee setting in UI options menu" bit is. you can set the fee you'll pay through the gui. (earlier it was only possible with bitcoind.)
and what exactly does "free transaction limits" mean? what is the new transaction fee schedule? well, the really best way for newcomers will be bitcoingateway.com, once it's back up and running and accepting CC payments. most newcomers will be just as unfamiliar with liqpay as with LR and friends. in the meantime, there's always #bitcoin-otc. not that great for complete newcomers, though, but if you have or can establish a reputation, you can trade for pp, moneypak, amazon payments, etc. well, read more about the way ripple works. when there's a transaction between A and C via B, what happens is that A extends credit to B, and B extends that credit to C. so effectively, B is on the hook for extending the credit to C. So if you trust B to repay his credit, the problem of trusting C is on B's shoulders.sure, B can default... but then you (a) shouldn't have trusted him in the first place, and (b) stop trusting him for the future (or at least reduce your credit line to him). <disclaimer>just my understanding, i'm a noob at ripple</disclaimer> hey, mtgox is real! i saw it with my own eyes! good question though. not sure if the major markets support this feature explicitly, but i'm pretty sure that if you have a large order and place it with a real broker, they can keep it quiet and negotiate with other incoming large orders, keeping it off the official electronic order book.alternatively, people can use bots to 'gradually' put out their large order out to the market. e.g., you want to sell 100k shares, you keep putting in orders for 5k, and waiting for people to take them, then place the next, etc. This is on a shared host, so RAM, CPU, and disk are "unlimited". Of course if you try to make your site the next Wikipedia, disk or traffic-wise, the host will probably complain. But as long as it is your regular moderately-used site (e.g., this forum for example), it should be just fine.Host is located in the USA, so no materials that are illegal to host in the USA are allowed.  interesting... too bad for all the technical analysts out there, though... are you sure it's a good idea to hide parts of the order book? in case of bitcoin, since transactions are 'free', you don't actually have to use the ripple credit lines as anything more than an indication of the level of trust between you and your counterparty. (though you could if you wanted to.)as far as 'mutually trusted third party', as far as i read, your level of trust for personX is equal to the lowest trust link in the chain between you and personX, if you don't know personX directly. So say, the links are You - 50 -> personA - 60 -> personB - 30 -> personC - 50 -> personX. Then /your/ trust with personX will be 30 (the lowest valued link). So for example, just because personC might trust personX for a million dollars, that's not going to be your level of trust for personX. So the fact that the web of trust is dispersed and variable, that's not really a problem, it seems. At least, that's kind of what i'm thinking, according to my current understanding (I've only recently learned about ripple myself).  i'd be curious to know /why/ you think that.  there seems to be discussion on the ripple forums about adding it...  Hey all,just want to see if there would be any interest in hosted private instances of a number of popular web apps. I can offer instances of MediaWiki, WordPress, phpBB, Zenphoto, and Drupal. No shell account - you'd just have an administrator-level account on an instance of the webapp of your choice, to do with as you like. For example, see http://wiki.bitcoin-otc.com/ - an instance of MediaWiki that is being used for the bitcoin-otc marketplace. If you'd be interested, please let me know (and what monthly price in BTC would you think fair/attractive). If there's interest from at least a handful of people, I can make it happen.  good thing that isn't a valid address  otherwise people might just try to donate to it.  for those of us without hundreds of thousands of spare USD to throw around... the more important question is how much can you afford to risk? because at the moment, bitcoin does carry with it some significant risks. think of it as diversifying into another asset.  fwiw, artforz, on irc, claims to have some working python bitcoin node code... he may be a good one to hit up on help about understanding the protocol. RHorning: interesting musings. btw, have you been keeping up with citizendium at all (the 'alter-pedia' by larry sanger)?as far as getting donations to the wmf in bitcoins... i figure it doesn't hurt to ask... pointing fingers at EFF may be a helpful bit of persuasion... haha interesting point.  FYI, there's some regular mtgusd-ppusd trading going on on #bitcoin-otc. See http://bitcoin-otc.com for details, outstanding order book, etc. So anyone who wants to exchange mtgusd, feel free to stop by. great, thanks!  nor with the earlier advent of bitcoin-otc, there's been btc-ppusd trading going on based on a web of trust there for a while now. beats cash in mail, as far as i'm concerned. bitcoingateway looks great and quite useful, though!  thanks ribuck for helping out with the link.  i bid 10 btc
from the bitcoin4cash.com website, his email is stated as themadhatter@i2pmail.orgtry that. Not even a mention of http://bitcoin-otc.com?  i'm so hurt.  what law would you be breaking by buying something with bitcoins as they are now? (and while you are at it, let us know what country you are in). well, if he's generating on a CPU rather than GPU, 100 addresses for several months should be way more than enough.  that said, indeed autosend script should be pretty easy to write as well. check balance, if >0, send balance to $myaddress. crontab it, and you're done.  well, if you're savvy with pgp or truecrypt, you could do your encryption yourself.that said, i don't think it's a bad idea to have the option to store the wallet as an encrypted file which requires a passphrase upon every bitcoin start, etc. that way the file is 'encrypted by default', which is not a bad place to be. ah, theymos, you're here - so what about the key pool? will the 'looking at wallet backup' thing work? no, each block generation bounty gets credited to a new address, so monitoring the 'first address' will not be of use.the bitcoin client now pre-generates a 'pool' of keys, sized 100 by default. i /think/ (but am not sure) that the addresses used for generation are also taken from this pool. if that is the case, then if you make a backup of the wallet and look at it on your local machine periodically, you'll be able to see the generation credits in your wallet backup (at least until you run out of the 100 pool addresses - depending on how fast your remote machine is generating, it may happen very fast or quite slowly).but since i'm not sure if the pool addresses are used for generation, you should get confirmation on that from someone who knows what's up.  morpheus: just fyi, there is some mtgusd-usd trading activity going on on #bitcoin-otc. might want to post your offer there as well. </plug>  Still, as i said, no problem for me. It doesn't cost my eyes anything to see extra digits.checked out your exchange site... a few comments for you, which i hope may be helpful. more competition in exchanges is always good. 1. it seems that there are no outstanding asks on the site? you need to get some market makers in there, at least until you have a bigger population of traders.2. your fees seem to be rather large... 6% one way, 50rub the other way? if you want to compete with established exchanges like bcm and mtgox, you have to offer competitive fees. or possibly even start with zero fees, to attract clientele3. don't know how possible it is... but if you allowed USD exchange on your site as well as RUB, you'd have more interested clientele.3.1. To that end, you need to finish your translation to EN, there's a bunch of russian in places even if EN is selected. The 'rules' page is in fact completely in russian.Well, that's it for now. hope that helps.  Yes that has been my understanding as well... though I certainly haven't actually looked at any code to confirm.  Why, yes, yes i am. Bring them on, please. As long as they accurately represent the balance in my account, it's all good. Though note that it should never get to so many decimal places, since there's a limit to how many decimal places bid/ask offer inputs can take. But even if it does - I'd rather see the real amount than a rounded one. so can javascript - if you run the whole browser in a sandbox  which is the only type of sandbox i'd trust with flash, too heh. but anyway - i completely agree, both js and flash are annoying, and i'd be very happy to see a nice static-html trading site. you can have a 'special' js or flash live-ticker, or live order book display, or live-updating chart... but besides that, a person should have complete functionality without flash or js.in my book, if it's not automatic-live-updating... there's no call for requiring flash or js.problem with mtg is it uses javascript... but the order book and charts are not live-updating (as in, page has to be refreshed, or button manually clicked, to refresh the view). so it's like the worst of both worlds on this issue. but it is a very nice and functional site in other respects, and has a relatively deep market.  I suggest to remove all mandatory rounding. If i want to send 1.02345 btc, I should damn well be able to. (Well, I still can, with a modified client... but I shouldn't need to modify the client.)The 'max 8 decimal places' can stay for a while... but the forced rounding should go. Now, the client may still trim trailing zeros to neaten display, that would be fine, but forced rounding has got to go.As far as "moving decimal point"... I think maybe instead the client should just acquire a dropdown box next to the balance display and other amount displays, where you get to choose the units (bitcoins, bitcents, microcoins, etc). As bitcoin value goes up, the "default" unit may change, but full-coin-unit display should always be possible.Just my 0.0298723 BTC  +1 on showing actual balances without rounding.+1 on pre-calculating the fee that would be charged, and showing it to the user to see before submitting an order. well, it's /relatively/ new, but it's been more than a year at least.  and fwiw, i recommend gplv3  just a suggestion: before you resort to doing 'custom software' consider using existing software for data shaping/analysis, such as R, for example (and it's foss, to boot!)teaching people to use an existing data analysis sw is probably more useful than teaching them how to use your custom software.  by the way, you're all encouraged to participate in the bitcoin-otc web of trust:http://trust.bitcoin-otc.com/ one word: lol!  oh... too bad. well, i wish you productivity in your other endeavors. 
hey, it's been a while, when's chapter 3 coming?  oh and of the others, the only one that's easy to calculate without making a bunch of assumptions about the probabilities of the underlying events in the powerball lottery. if winning one is 1/80M, then winning 5, each of which has the same probability, is (1/80M)^5 == 3.0517578125e-40, which is roughly 10^27 times more likely than the 'random shuffling creating the exact same order of cards as before' bit. A is not 1 in 52. assuming that a "shuffling" produces a random ordering of the cards, you randomly produce 1 out of the 52! possible orderings of the 52 cards. that's 52 factorial, not "52 excited exclamation".  which comes out to roughly 8.0658175170945e+67 - that's 8 with 67 zeros following it.now, let's get back to our regularly scheduled programming. EDIT: sorry, i completely missed the ! after /your/ 52 and thought you said "1 in 52". my bad. i must be getitng blind in my old age.  why don't you email them and suggest it?  some admin please remove the spam 2 posts above me from hunter8br. the link in his sig is spam.  and on top of all that... pgp is even optional.  but it doesn't hurt to have a pgp key on file, for that extra bit of identity verification on top of what the irc network does. got 100 btc from noagenda. thank you!  Another service for bitcoin-otc: there is now a web-of-trust for OTC users. See http://trust.bitcoin-otc.com/Thoughts and comments welcome. And of course you are also welcome to join us on #bitcoin-otc on IRC to participate in the OTC marketplace and the web of trust.  any news on your decision?  indeed, i think this is an important point. once we have millions of nodes, if we have default-generation to 'on' and using even 5-10% cpu (configurable), that'll provide significant computing power and raise the bar to taking over the network.even if generation isn't profitable, it's not unreasonable to expect that people may do it - see how many millions of people run things like folding@home, completely at no personal gain. bitcoin generation may easily be done the same way - with little hope of personal gain, but to help secure the network against attack. something to think about, i think. it's not only about 'making free btc'.  haha, that's exactly the example i gave on irc when this topic came up - microsoft. if you look at his other forum posts, he doesn't actually sound very professional  (though part of that may be because english is not a native language for him...) where will irc bidding take place? chapter 1: good stuff. but some seeming inconsistency there - first it seems munchy is in some building on some high floor, then you say he's 'underground' ? how about ach deposit? Heh, irc is where all the action is!  Don't you also have an outstanding bid for 7000 lrusd on exchangezone.com? (or is that someone else impersonating you by using the nick 'mtgox' ?) According to the current SEC regs, you have to borrow first, before you can sell. selling first is called 'naked short' selling, which is no longer allowed. You can google/wikipedia for the associated problems with it and why it is no longer legal (in the usa, at least).Inside knowledge doesn't really have any special relationship to short selling. People with inside knowledge of bad news, can short, people with inside knowledge of good news can go long. But besides that, yes, short selling does add liquidity, and sanity, to the market, by allowing people to trade both on expected gains and expected losses. just fyi, you could try http://bitcoin-otc/ for your OTC transactions.  great to hear that, kiba!  S3052, from your update today, you say "As MtGox does not display short term volumes (like 5, 15, 60 min prices plus associated volume), I cant tell what exactly happened."If you would like detailed transaction information, you can join the #bitcoin-market channel on freenode, which streams live transaction information for bitcoinmarket and mtgox.If you are interested, I can send you a copy of the exact transaction info at the time the mtgox price fluctuations occurred today. But for the future... just join and hang out on the channel. 
i'm more interested in this part. would you care to share? i think a lot of otc traders out in the marketplace would like to know of a way to conduct transactions while minimizing counterparty risk. i'm not the OP, but i'd guess the more the merrier.  so if you have a good idea - post it!  Great start - really liked where it was heading.The plethora of grammar errors can use some fixing... but besides that, very promising. A bit doctorow-like, i think.  indeed - now that we're all on the same page, the bargaining can commence.   this is really rather incorrect. he's the principal in this venture, and he chooses to sell X% equity stake for Y amount in funds. there's nothing wrong with that. sweat equity is quite important. you are of course welcome to decline his offer, or try to bargain for more stake per dollar, but it is not unreasonable for him to claim some percent of equity without necessarily putting in that same percentage of monetary capital. that's how public financing works.e.g., when google sold its ipo for $ungodlyamountofbillions, while page and brin kept >50% of equity stake, do you think they magically came up with billions of their own money to put in? no, they didn't have it to put in. essentially, they said "we're selling X percent of the firm, being represented by some number of shares. investors, feel free to bid on the right to own a share".  why not post an offer on #bitcoin-otc ?  for buying bitcoins, you could try your hand on http://bitcoin-otc.com or on https://bitcoinstore.yyz.us/ Here's another version, attached. hahaha good one!   nice work - but you misspelled 'shortener'  maybe, sounds like an interesting alternative.you're more than welcome to come in and place a bid/ask on bitcoin-otc in exchange for alertpay funds. the OTC market does not have any restrictions on what can be traded for btc, so alertpay is just fine. Hey,looks like a cool project... attaching my rendition of the btco.in logo. Hope you like. If so... I'd like my 100 btc please.  http://bitcoin-otc.com can do canadian tire money - or any other form of currency. otc ftw.  there's something even better - http://bitcoin-otc.com </plug>  check on a few popular exchanges like http://bitcoinmarket.com, http://mtgox.com, see also http://bitcoinwatch.com for a markets summary.you can also try posting your offer on the OTC trading book on http://bitcoin-otc.com try http://bitcoin-otc.com for OTC trading.  (maybe in addition to posting things on forums) may i suggest http://bitcoin-otc.com for your OTC trading needs?  Please add http://bitcoin-otc.com/ to the trade page. It is an IRC/web based OTC marketplace for bitcoin exchange. Just a suggestion/plug: try posting your offers on #bitcoin-otc . see http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1491.0 true, i need to make a note of that. thanks my current understanding is that the only transactions that come through without any fees are ones which are from (a) pp/bank balance and (b) personal. so if you receive a tx and no fees have been taken out by pp, then you know it's from balance, and is personal.
I have started an OTC marketplace in IRC channel #bitcoin-otc on freenode. People can enter their supply/demand orders into the order book, and complete transactions OTC. Feel free to join the channel, and to check out the web site with instructions and order book: http://bitcoin-otc.com .Click here to use freenode webchat to join the channel: http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=#bitcoin-otcAny thoughts, comments, suggestions, questions are welcome.  my 0.5 btc :still not a bad start (can you guess i'm in the US?  )1% is quite reasonable, as far as transfer fees go. i'm not logged in. pretty sure cuz i don't even have an account there. this changed as of yesterday. yesterday everyone was "bidder 1, bidder 2", today all nicks are revealed. hey biddingpond owner:please consider this as a bug report:you should not reveal bidder's usernames in auction history or high bidder display to the world.your previous display of "bidder 1, bidder 2" was better regarding bidder privacy.you should reveal each bidder's name /to each specific bidder/, so that he knows whether he won, or whether he is the high bidder, but you should not reveal usernames of everyone to everyone.so e.g., if i'm logged in as user "aoeu", and i'm the second bidder, then in the bidding history i might see things like "bidder 1, aoeu, bidder 3, bidder 1, aoeu"so, when you are logged in, only your name becomes revealed only to you. OK... so i've been running the node for the past day, i have been consistently connected to 8 other nodes, i'm up to the latest block in the chain as of this moment (83535), and the transaction is still not verified... how do we proceed from here, satoshi? lfm: try it, '-help' is /quite/ different from just 'help' ('-help' is the same as '-?')  ok, will do... how long should i keep it online for, before i can come back and bug you about it again (if it stays at 0 conf) ? (and btw, i'm using the official .13 client) just a clarification, the one that "cleared recently" didn't have anything to do with the problem microtransactions. the problem one, that was unconfirmed, is still unconfirmed, see info in my post above.  I have one transaction that remains perpetually in 0/unconfirmed status in my wallet. Here are the details, as shown in debug mode:Code:Status: 0/unconfirmedDate: 09/29/2010 12:46From: unknownTo: 1MgD6rah5zUgEGYZnNmdpnXMaDR3itKYzU (yours, label: gribble stored address)Credit: 0.03Net amount: +0.03debug printCredit: 0.03Inputs:Transaction:CTransaction(hash=5c05d9, ver=1, vin.size=1, vout.size=1, nLockTime=0)   CTxIn(COutPoint(b412a0, 0), scriptSig=3045022049753afb02f58a7b)   CTxOut(nValue=0.03000000, scriptPubKey=OP_DUP OP_HASH160 e2ccd6)Would appreciate it if you take a look and see what's wrong with it and why it remains unconfirmed.... I can agree with that. otherwise the 0/unconf txns can propagate through the network and mess up a lot of people's wallets. I notice that these options are not showing up in --help output... Shouldn't --help have a comprehensive listing of these options in it? (Especially given that there's no manpage or other help docs distributed in the official-release tarball?)Just an idle question, whose result I hope makes its way into the next release.  This is just a brief note that I hope will help others compile bitcoind on their debian-like linux system. The main sticking point is figuring out what dependencies are needed. So follow these simple steps below, and you can be up and running in no time.Note that I have done this on Ubuntu 10.04, i386.1. run Code:sudo apt-get install build-essential libboost-all-dev libssl-dev libdb-dev libdb4.8++-dev libglib2.0-dev to install all the required dependencies. (note that the 4.8 version may differ depending on the age of your distribution)2. get the source code of bitcoin, either through an svn checkout, or by downloading one of the release tar.gz's3. cd to the directory where the source code is located, and run Code:make -f makefile.unix bitcoind4. watch the compilation progress scroll by.5. the compiled binary 'bitcoind' will be created in your current directory - enjoy!Note: currently the official binary uses libdb 4.7, so if you want to be consistent with that, use libdb4.7++-dev instead of the 4.8 version. if you need to go back to 4.7 after running with 4.8, you need to delete .bitcoin/database/* files, because these logfiles are not backward compatible between 4.8 and 4.7.Any comments/thoughts/suggestions are welcome. :) ok, so i built a modified bitcoind, with the addition of 'pcoin->GetDepthInMainChain() < 1' to both SelectCoins and GetBalance. My 'stock client' balance shows as 131.00139787, and my modified client balance shows as 130.92112098, so i have about 0.08xx of "bad" bitcoins' worth of transactions in my wallet.So I guess now, all i need to do is create another wallet, and then send all the "good coins" from my old wallet to my new one (or, i guess... i could just use the same wallet, since my bitcoind won't try to send the bad coins, i can just ignore them....)But yes, I hope the modifications as described by jgarzik (being configurable with cli switches/checkboxes) do make it into mainline - because otherwise it's too easy to 'poison' people's wallets with bogus transactions. thanks theymos for the patch!i guess now i have to figure out how to build bitcoind.... or maybe i'll just wait around for this to make it into the next official release... if satoshi agrees with jgarzik as far as including those options in mainline, maybe i don't have to wait that long... theymos: well... the problem is that it causes problems for the wallets that happen to have received those transactions. my wallet now includes a bunch of small transactions that will never be confirmed (due to their not having paid the requisite fees). since the client does not let the user control which coins to send, any transaction i send out in the future is liable to try to include those coins in the outgoing payment, which, in turn, will never get confirmed, thus borking my whole wallet.so say a 'rogue' client harvests a bunch of addresses of the net (these forums are a good and ripe place), and starts sending out a bunch of .000001 payments with no fee. now these wallets will all be contaminated with these never-to-be-confirmed payments, and since the client doesn't allow one to choose which coins get sent, they may be included in future outgoing payments, which will also never get confirmed.so what should i do to 'clear' my wallet? i'd need some custom tool to be able to send /specific coins/, so that i can send them all to another wallet and drop the contaminated one.and more importantly, for the future - how do we address this problem?  +1+1---+2 for TTBit  yes and.... at this point /all/ clients require fees for transactions <0.01, do you have any reason to expect that this will change at any point in the future? i don't. so "never will get confirmed" seems a reasonable approximation to reality.yes but the problem is that the client doesn't let the user choose which coins to spend, it does it all "automagically" behind the scenes. so how would a user know if he's sending confirmed coins or unconfirmed coins?yes, but that's a separate issue. i'm really trying to figure out what, if anything, to be doing about the handful of never-to-be-confirmed transactions i have in my wallet, whether the client will prioritize sending other coins first or not, and if not... that means it's possible that i'll never be able to make a send transaction that will be confirmed, because the unconfirmed bits of coin will be included. which would in turn mean that my whole wallet is foobar. Hey, so i've been the recipient of a few of these microtransactionsso now i have several transactions in my wallet that are now perpetually in the '0/unconfirmed' stateso the question is, if i send stuff, will it include those bitcoins in my sends, thus propagating the invalid chain? what is to be done here?note also that this seems like a valid way to spam the network - send a bunch of microtransactions without the fee, so you can effectively multispend the same bit of btc and spam everyone's wallets with bogus microtransactions at no cost to you? there are some difficulties with that, though. people will address the 'unknown people' in their messages... they'll make references to what they say in such a way as to enable a determined observer to put together a picture of who the unknown person is and the gist of what they're saying. as a result, it seems to me that trying to redact the logs will be a futile exercise, and only give the redactees a false feeling of 'ooh my messages are not getting logged so nobody knows i was there and what i was saying'.so at the end of the day, the chanops will make a decision one way or the other, which would be either (a) have no logging, and if you don't like it, tough, or (b) have public logging with notice in topic, and if you don't like it, tough. I have no problem with logging.
