please remove me from the list, I gave up on this and uninstalled, thanks! I can not open my bitcoin client and transfer bitcoins to my bank account.1. taking payments with moneybookers = one click or so and the cash is on my account2. taking payments with bitcoin = users have to register here, download the software, learn basics of how it works (most people already know how sites like moneybookers or paypal works), send me the bitcoins, I have to sell the bitcoins and when I sell them whats the chanse that the buyer uses moneybookers?This shows how I feel that bitcoin is a detour.I am supporting it by using it right now to generate coins, I will get 100 and then I will send them to someone ^^ I earn $10 usd daily on my website...But where does bitcoin play any role in this site?If its not for profit and just trading coins is a hobby then I have nothing more to say. If sending coins to people is what you like then I see why you guys spend time doing this.When I find my niche I will not use it with bitcoin but with moneybookers so that I can earn soemthing on it Thanks for all replies but I will stop asking stuff now since aparently im too negative :Scya Ok so there are low tranfer fees, but I think the time it takes to get the coins are too long to be worth it, it will take so many months to get what you can earn in less then a day by working and then paying with credit card. You cant really compare bitcoin to banks, its not like your gonna have 10mil BTC on your computer and also a bank is alot more safe then your own computer. From what I understand if you delete the bitcoin folder you lose your coins.Anonymous payments, good for what? Porn and illegal drugs online?Generate coins for a year and you can afford a porn dvd or a joint. There is no point in buying BTC for real cash like USD, SEK, EUR, BHT and so on only to buy something for them.If there is any shop or site offering services for BTC that makes any profit please show it to me. So I can start a webshop and sell stuff for bitcoins that takes a year to gather bitcoins equal to $50. I still don't see why people would perfer it over paying real cash unless your 10 years old and cant really earn any real money. Whats the point in gathering bit coins if they are being both harder to get and lowered in value with time?2 weeks running almost non stop and I got 0 coins yet with a speed of 2700khash/s.  Ok nice game im starting with sending something and here is my adress for this game:14PqqeMRgcwMaotv13zNpeufVW9E1a5rwRI also want to suggest that you gather all adresses in the main post  Hi, im new here. Will PeerBlock cause any problems when recieveing coins?I have made two ip adresses allowed permanently so I have loaded all blocks (77930) and I currently have 8 connections.1. Detected AP2P on Amazon EC2 cloud 174.129.177.67:83332. IBM Global Network Europe 195.212.29.67:8333Thanks for reading. Hello im gatsu im new here im trying to understand this program and my IP is 90.229.148.152
