Thankfully, no. The Bitcoin mechanism has the concept of a genesis block hash, which is the theoretical hash (0x000000000019d6689c085ae165831e934ff763ae46a2a6c172b3f1b60a8ce26f) of a nonexistant 'root' block. To start a separate block chain you'd start with a new genesis block hash and start adding new blocks to that chain rooted at your new genesis block. Since each new block contains a hash of the previous block in the chain, you could not re-use blocks for the current block chain in your new block chain. Seconded! I'd be very interested in helping with content. But http://bitcoin.org/faq#How_are_new_Bitcoins_created indicates that the difficulty of the POW is increased to halve the block production rate every 4 years. Since this asymptotically approaches 0, it seems problematic. If the rate was a constant 6 blocks/hour then it wouldn't be an issue, but the FAQ suggests otherwise.This is true. However, if the POW problem is hard enough that even paying transactions have to queue indefinitely for inclusion in a block then they're no better off than those transactions that are included for free in the block (and have to queue for inclusion regardless). It depends a lot on the cooling capacity of you computer. If your cooling is struggling to keep your core temperature down at 100% load then you're probably going to wear out your fans in the not-too-distant future. If your cooling system isn't breaking a sweat to keep your CPU cool then you probably won't have much issue with mechanical wear.That's not a bad idea. It might just be a better idea to make the load scaling work better by automatically cutting down the number of hashing threads based on the amount of load other system processes are putting on the system. That way, if you weren't using the computer at all the client could suck up all of the cores, but if you sat down and started doing big parallel compiles then it would back off to 1 or 0 cores.The way that load scaling currently works in client is slightly problematic, in that the 'niceness' of individual processes doesn't affect its IO demand. Since the current BitCoin client is such a monster when it comes to disk access, you'd probably notice a huge responsivity increase on your system if you ionice'd the client. I think that a very useful thing to have in the BitCoin main window would be an indicator saying "# hashes/sec" to demonstrate how fast the BitcoinMiner threads were running. No. The BitCoins you receive for generating a block are a payment to you by the system for you work towards extending the block chain. You have invested money (by way of electricity and hardware wear) in the generation of the block chain, and are receiving compensation for that work. As the proof-of-work problem becomes increasingly more difficult the interval between block generation increases exponentially. What happens when the number of transactions in the system outpaces the block generation rate? Won't we be in the situation where we can no longer grow the block chain fast enough to include all of the ongoing transactions in blocks? If I've misunderstood something from the paper or the code please chime in and correct me, because I'm a touch worried about the future of the currency. 
