After discovering and listening to the audio book at bitcoinmoney.com called Rebooting Money, I have decided to offer bonuses for Bitcoin payments. The part about the two gas stations really got me thinking.All Bitcoin payments at Link2VoIP now enjoy a 2% deposit bonus. We will likely leave this bonus in place to incentivize Bitcoin over traditional payment methods. Hello all,First off: our apologies to the moderators if this is the incorrect place to post such an announcement. We have come to the realization recently that the risks to us in accepting Bitcoins for payment is actually decreasing! We have had no problems converting our Bitcoins back into USDs to pay our bills so far.In response to this great realization we have increased the Bitcoin 30-day deposit limit from $25 USD's worth of Bitcoins per account to $35 USD's worth of Bitcoins per account!Wishing the community all the best,Steven / Link2VoIP.com Having our customers pay by IP won't work well for us.We'd have to coach customers into entering their username and other bits of data that we need in a special format into the payment message body. It is too prone to user error. I'm sure the IP payment option will work well for others. Stats update:Total Number of Payments:   61Total Value of Payments:   $216.12Estimated Monthly Income:   $191.16 (BC46,623.92)Estimated Daily Income:   $6.37 (BC1,553.64)Average Number of Daily Payments:   1.80Average Value Per Payment:   $3.54Days since we started accepting Bitcoin:   33  There isn't an easy way to specify what to bind to.Modify the source code, re-compile it. Or just use a firewall. That's even easier. Payment StatsTotal Number of Payments:   41Total Value of Payments:   $137.05Estimated Monthly Income:   $208.42 (BC36,654.83)Estimated Daily Income:   $6.95 (BC1,222.30)Average Number of Daily Payments:   2.08Average Value Per Payment:   $3.34 We don't expire them. We recycle abandoned ones. It isn't a feature of Bitcoin, it is a feature of our integration software. You are partly correct. bitcoind is a "terminate and stay resident program". You communicate with it over a JSON-RPC socket to send payments/poll for received payments.  Hello,That's a good question. We generate a new Bitcoin address for each new payment. Once we receive payment to a Bitcoin address we look it up in our database, deposit it into the applicable Link2VoIP account, and expire the Bitcoin address. Very simple.We also recycle abandoned addresses after 72 hours in order to keep the Bitcoin database as small as possible.Feel free to signup and try it out if you wish.Cheers! Stats dump update:Payment StatsTotal Number of Payments:   33Total Value of Payments:   $123.60Estimated Monthly Income:   $281.25 (BC46,943.44)Estimated Daily Income:   $9.38 (BC1,565.62)Average Number of Daily Payments:   2.50Average Value Per Payment:   $3.75 We used to offer IAX2 many years ago until we experienced rapid growth that rendered our Asterisk server farm useless. They would consume threads into oblivion and crash. Back then the SIP stack for Asterisk was quite shoddy but it actually would hold up a lot better than IAX2 (surprisingly).We were forced to buy Cisco gear and run opensips in the end.  Ah well..  Pegging the exchange rate to how much energy is required to generate coins is probably a better calculation. Money is only worth something if there is energy to back it up. It is, after all, just a marker against labour.Cheers!  Just did a test trade @ BitcoinExchange.com for Pecunix. I'll report back on how it goes. Feel? You are asking a faceless corporation how it feels?  j/kIt is working and our developers are excited at the possibilities that Bitcoin offers. We have proper statistics running now. Here is a dump of our stats for the last few days:Payment StatsTotal Number of Payments:   17Total Value of Payments:   $49.63Estimated Monthly Income:   $206.74 (BC33,830.93)Estimated Daily Income:   $6.89 (BC1,127.48)Average Number of Daily Payments:   2.36Average Value Per Payment:   $2.92 What a small world.  Which version are you running? 0.2 or a snapshot?Oh, and "libcrypto.so.0.9.8: no version information available (required by ./bitcoin)" is worrisome. Up to 19 transactions now. And we've noticed a growth in the number of Bitcoin client IPs since we started promoting it to our "tech savy" user base.I will post again once we have enough data for a daily transaction average. I hope this message will offer encouragement. Hello again,I am happy to report that we have seen 12 automated Bitcoin payments overnight. Everything seems to be working great so far.Average time between a spend and it showing up in our accounting system is about 1.2 minutes. That isn't bad considering that the transactions have to be peer reviewed first.Have a great weekend guys!  Hello Bitcoiners,Just thought I'd pop on this forum to announce that we have full Bitcoin automation operational now. It is a trial. A big "experiment"; if you will. Any/all feedback will be appreciated of course.We have deposit limits of $25 USD/mo per account to limit financial risks to our business. We don't mind being a guarantor of Bitcoins.We would like to partner with competent exchangers, so please spam us. Warm regards,Steven Lee, CTO of Link2VoIP
