Not sure what happened.Someone was able to change a number of settings on my minera setup. I was exposing the web port (I know, bad bad), but I had changed the default web password. However, that said, they were still able to change my pool, added their IP to the cgminer API whitelist, as well as changed the web password for minera so I could not log in.At any rate, where do the failed login attempts get logged to (is there a log file some place)? I'd like to try and setup Fail2Ban, so this hopefully doesn't happen again in the future?[EDIT]Some more details, for anyone that cares.Here is the IP that was added to the whitelist: 93.183.238.234Here is the Pools they added:stratum+tcp://scrypt.hk.nicehash.com:3333,3PrTbZQaWJL9b3Uq6vEMgkgLHiZoRWTMmL.152,xstratum+tcp://litecoinpool.org:3333,newvol.2,1They also removed those pools (probably after realizing I only have 40 GH/s on a couple of stick miners :-)They then left my old pools, but changed the usernames to their own BTC addresses to gather the dust I produce.   So if I got the superbpag hub, would I need a splitter or will that hub provide enough power all on its own? Ok, thanks for the input. I just purchased one of those USB power meters like Jake36 recommended below.I've seen some people mention here USB Y-Splitters (something like this?) If I plugged the power side into say a 2.1amp phone charger, and the data side into a USB hub, would that work to supply the power needed and allow for running at the 350MHz range? Or do I need to make other modifications to allow the Y-Splitter to work? I want to play around with overclocking and see what can be done, as well as understand some more about amps/watts/volts.I have the following hub: Sabrent 4-Port USB 3.0 HubI also got the following 5v-4A wall-wart: Sabrent 5V 4A 100V-240V to DC Power AdapterIf it matters, this is all plugged into a raspberrypi.With a single compac plugged in to the hub, and the potentiometer at about 9-oclock (0.74v?), I've run at 350MHz for about 7 days. I haven't tried going any higher yet. I've got a fan blowing on it, and things seem ok. Haven't wanted to try and push it more just yet.With two compacs plugged into the hub, and the potentiometer at about 9-oclock (0.74v?) for one and 0.77v for the other, I can't run any higher than 250MHz, or else one of the compacs starts hashing, but after a few seconds goes zombie. Then it starts again, and shortly after goes zombie. I've tried 300 and 275, but no luck.I'm assuming my issue is power to the compacs, and that the hub I have just can't keep up. What would be the best way to confirm this? I don't have any other hubs, and I don't know that I want to spend $35 on a superbrag (i've seen it mentioned here multiple times) right now until I can fully rule out my hub as the drag. Tested them both direct connected to my laptop, so no hub. Wanted to rule out anything I could that might cause an issue.Tried both USB ports on the laptop just to be sure. Same results. I don't see anything?Sorry maybe not the best pics, I can try and take better ones tomorrow in daylight.http://imgur.com/UfmggW0http://imgur.com/syxVyGT So I used my volt meter on the good stick, and got a reading. So I knew I was doing things right. I plugged in the "bad" stick, green light comes on. Check with volt meter shows 0. Start up cgminer. Still shows 0. Let cgminer do its thing, and try to hotplug. Still shows 0. Test the volt meter against my good stick, and I get readings.So does this mean the asic is bad? Or maybe something blew? Like I said, all was good until I did a reboot of my PI the other day. Now only one stick is good.Anything else I can try and test to see if I can diagnose it? Just purchased one in Amazon. I'll report back what I find. Hopefully it's not an ASIC issue. Interesting. I'll try leaving it in my garage for awhile, it usually warms up in there compared to the rest of the house. See if a "warm start" can get things going again.General question, if the light is green, and it pops in cgminer enough to get the serial and start cycling (reset, zombie, no hash, reset, zombie, no hash, etc), is that generally a sign there is hope it's not dead? Is there any other way to probe it or check to see if there is any hope? Tried that just now. Tried starting with nothing plugged in, and then plugging in the stick, but got the same error (No valid hashes for over 10 secs, attempting to reset). Tried starting with the stick in, and after it failed, tried unplugging and replugging. No luck.I'm going to try compiling VH's versions of cgminer, and see if that shows anything different.Is there anyway to check/debug whats going on? Sorry, I should have mentioned. Now that I am troubleshooting, I'm running at 125mhz, just to se if it'll perk up. Doesn't matter, on the hub or direct connected to A PC, it just want start hashing.The other unit runs fine, at 200 MHz still. Both were running for weeks with no issues until the reboot. Received mine a few weeks ago. Both have been running fine connected to a powered USB hub, humming along at 200 MHz with a fan. Yesterday I rebooted my raspberry pi, and now one of them won't seem to start hashing, no matter the frequency I specify. It just keeps cycling into failure. The other one is fine, and works with no issues.Code: cgminer version 4.9.2 - Started: [2016-04-30 19:09:20.472]-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (5s):0.000 (1m):0.000 (5m):0.000 (15m):0.000 (avg):0.000h/s A:0  R:0  HW:0  WU:0.0/m Connected to stratum.XXXXXX.XXX diff 1.02K with stratum as user XXXXXX Block: 293f16aa...  Diff:179G  Started: [19:09:20.473]  Best share: 0-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- [U]SB management [P]ool management [S]ettings [D]isplay options [Q]uit 1: COMPAC 10002743: 150MHz                  |  0.000 /  0.000h/s WU:0.0/m-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- [2016-04-30 19:09:17.980] Started cgminer 4.9.2 [2016-04-30 19:09:19.468] Probing for an alive pool [2016-04-30 19:09:19.631] Pool 0 difficulty changed to 1024 [2016-04-30 19:09:20.473] Network diff set to 179G [2016-04-30 19:09:31.166] COMPAC 0: No valid hashes for over 10 secs, attempting to reset [2016-04-30 19:09:31.167] COMPAC 0 attempted reset got err:(0) LIBUSB_SUCCESS [2016-04-30 19:10:31.154] COMPAC 0: Device failed to respond to restart [2016-04-30 19:10:31.155] COMPAC 0 failure, disabling! [2016-04-30 19:10:34.181] Hotplug: Gekko added COMPAC 1 [2016-04-30 19:10:45.116] COMPAC 1: No valid hashes for over 10 secs, attempting to reset [2016-04-30 19:10:45.117] COMPAC 1 attempted reset got err:(0) LIBUSB_SUCCESSI've tried changing the voltage, switching USB reports, and even plugging into a different device (OS X laptop), and this one just never gets going. The light is green, just not sure how to get it going again.Any suggestions? Oh, totally agreed. I'm getting the solar for reasons outside of mining. But because of the solar, i'd be able to mine at $0.07 / kWh vs $0.12 / kWh, as my normal day to day at the house won't be utilizing any of my normal tier 1 electricity rate.Not sure what you mean by the 100 in a week higher price. Do you mean the price of bitcoin going up, or that the price of S5s have gone up?Are S5s pretty much the best deal hardware wise right now? Is there anything else worth even evaluating? Not what I was hoping to hear! I had done some CPU mining back in the early days, then GPU mining some alt-coins back in the big run up in 2013. I've been out of the game for the last year or so, because the economics just didn't make sense.I just moved into a new place, and am getting solar installed that will just about net out my electricity usage. What that means is that I should have some capacity in my "base" tier ($0.07 / kWh) to run an asic miner, if it made sense.To be honest, I don't know where to start. Is it best to buy new miner or get an older miner used? Is there anything coming available soon that would make sense to wait on? Is there anything available today that can be run small scale, and not cost more to run than it makes?I'm not looking to get rich, it would be more of a hobby thing. But I don't want to run the hobby if it's going to run negative the whole time. Honest question, but how do you steal a PC? If the key is hard coded in the code, then really you wouldn't be stealing a PC as the previous owner would still have the key, right?So if Josh originally had 15 PC Keys, how could he no longer have those? Unless he lost them (formatted hard drive, shredded copies, etc), he would still have access, no? And as has been said, just getting a key doesn't grant you the coins in that PC. So even if someone got the keys, Garza would still have the 1.8million coins from those 15 PCs, right?Unless what is being said is that someone emptied 1.8 million coins from Joshs wallets, transferred them to wallets they control, and then used josh's PC keys? Wouldn't we be able to see that somewhere on the blockchain? A couple of things I've wondered, for those of you that are scouring the email trove...Was there ever any talk about SHA-256 for the Prime Hashlets?Was there ever any talk about how the boosters worked (like double dip, etc)? I know it was all virtual, but would be interesting to see some kind of talk about it.Was there ever any talk about hashbase?I know there was a lot of hype/talk about these over on hash talk by Josh back in the day. Just curious if any of it was shot around vas email, or was it all just Josh being Josh? Hows that laptop doing you got for shilling from Josh Coinstand? Earlier, you posted a link to:http://bitsofnews.net/gaw-stuart-fraser-cantor-fitzgerald-vaultbreakers-and-the-truth/but the site says "Password Protected". Any reason you'd post that, and not the password? Or am I missing something obvious.
FYI, here is the Base64 decode of the above message: Josh is that you? Looks like everyone's favorite HT poster got an account:https://hashtalk.org/topic/34097/coinstand-com-i-just-bought-a-mac-for-37-xpyAnd he's super happy about "purchasing" a 7 year old iMac (http://www.amazon.com/Apple-MB323LL-20-inch-Desktop-SuperDrive/dp/B000X3GTMM). Just checked.../sms works on Paybase to bypass authy. Does not work on Zenminer. Fixed the torrent.https://archive.org/details/josh_email_backuphttps://archive.org/download/josh_email_backup/emaildump.torrentMagnet URL:magnet:?xt=urn:btih:48CDD39338F07EA6E320F6B08834BD8F079E5F6F&dn=emaildump.zipEDIT: I also went back and changed the old links, in case someone is following the old URLs I posted. Anybody do the math on how much they are past due to all of these 3rd parties? I think it was north of 500k, not including the request from Mordica's lawyer for 400k (or 500k in BTC). Apparently I was using bad trackers:Can you try:magnet:?xt=urn:btih:48CDD39338F07EA6E320F6B08834BD8F079E5F6F&dn=emaildump.zipI'll try reuploading it to archive.org in a minute. The torrent I created is just a torrent of the mega link. I personally didn't archive anything (I got to the party to late).If anyone has more than that, I'll gladly create another torrent and seed it non-stop. Torrent (i'm currently seeding it):https://archive.org/details/josh_email_backuphttps://archive.org/download/josh_email_backup/emaildump.torrentLet me know if it doesn't work for anyone.EDIT:BitTorrent Sync linkhttps://link.getsync.com/#f=SharedFiles Josh, is that you? Whats most interesting from that cluster of a letter is that Jonah is now the interim CEO of BTC.Based on other postings of the "hierarchy" of GAW:So with Jonah now at the helm of BTC, he is essentially the defacto CEO of GAW Miners as well, right? Could that explain the switch most have been calling out in the GAWCEO posts as of late?EDIT:Whats more interesting is that just 7 days ago, Josh Garza was the CEO of BTC. So either he's been ousted in the last seven days, or he has stepped down. Question is which is it.From http://www.prweb.com/releases/2015/02/prweb12507758.htm (second paragraph): Not sure if this was posted, but it looks like GAWs issues are spilling over into their other businesses:http://www.coindesk.com/turmoil-gaw-miners-phone-service/ Wasn't GoCoin supposed to be implementing XPY support? Why are they working on fiat?http://www.coindesk.com/bitcoin-processor-gocoin-adds-fiat-payout-options/Was there ever any confirmation from GoCoin about the XPY stuff, was it it just more "Amazon Promises" from Josh? The thing is, he did walk away a one point (would need to go back 200-300 pages here), but he slithered back because "josh needed help during the transition" or some bullshit.i think that alone speaks to his character. Did ikeboy forget to switch accounts after posting? It looks like he's talking to himself... Gone or just me? And 404... He is still listed as CTO of GAW here:http://gaw.com/leadership/ As "CEO" what could he have been doing? It's not like he was neck deep in code helping to solve the issue...I think just about any other CEO or even "CEO" would have been present. I'm a lowly dev, but I've pulled countless all-nighters, and still gave my presentation the next morning. No problem.If anything I think this is a good sign. Ars is by no means "mainstream", but if they are starting to pick up the story, that means it is starting to break out of the tight knit crypto community. Can be good and bad I guess.
Ars isn't some wordpress fly by night blog (like CCN or any of the multitude of other crypto-news sites). From http://arstechnica.com/about-us/:They have a little bit of experience in this game, not like they just popped up in the last 2 years. I think Ars has been around longer than some of the XPY investors have been born :-PI've been reading them for years, and they have put together a lot of good articles (everything from covering CPU releases in great detail, patent troll cases, security breaches, to some crypto news). They have reporters which sit in on trials to report (like the Apple vs Samsung case, or most of the Newegg patent troll cases). They have reporters that do assignments, like at NASA facilities, at SpaceX events, and just about every tech event that comes up (CES, WWDC, build, etc). Plus they have a really great community. A lot of the comments on the articles provide great detail and insight. The community is almost like Slashdot 5-7 years ago.I think Josh is barking up the wrong tree on this one. Josh spoke on the phone to give his side, now, according to Cyrus "[Josh] made some claims that sound wild to me, but I want to check". Josh must be nervous about what he has told Cyrus to already be coming out blasting it.Personally I can't wait to read it. So, not sure if this has happened to anyone else that bought XPY with a CC, but it looks like the pending charge on my card is gone. It didn't post to my account. It's as if Stripe just canceled it. I wonder if they are canceling the orders, or it is just a glitch on mine. I didn't report the charge, or in any way request a chargeback.If, and this is a big **IF** as I have no evidence other than my anecdotal story, Stripe is reversing all the charges, GAW could be out a bunch of XPY and USD.EDIT: I'll post if the other charge I made disappears as well. I'd expect it to post by Monday for a normal charge. Not a true believer, just testing the CC to see who the processor was.If you want to spend some time tracing it, here are two purchases I made:TXN: 5c3c2efa1cd2abb0e384ed5ce15ef041903d992fe94d13531186f6185f93dfafAddress: PVGy8a4Ai2jUFVnWg4sowxzKNM2LdpCwmrAmt: 25.698324 XPYTXN: a80127b3756b88c4f9e3fb594fd99d7f0c3f7d8598b3e42a2e2bf43404c4cb18Address: PVGy8a4Ai2jUFVnWg4sowxzKNM2LdpCwmrAmt: 27.090858 XPYImportant note, the second purchase I just made now. What was different from the first:1) I was asked to confirm my address (which was prefilled)2) I was asked to confirm my credit card (including CCV) was was all prefilled3) I was asked to type in my phone number. I INTENTIALLY put in a bogus phone number4) The transaction was processed (again with a 10% fee), but the XPY was deposited immediately to my account (no hour wait this time).5) The charge on my CC appears as the same "ONLINE SAN FRANSCISCO", which I believe is Stripe (so looks like CoinFire might be correct, that they just changed the merchant account, but continue to use Stripe for purchases). For what it's worth, from my purchase last night:My understanding is Stripe is based in SF, so i'd assume that is why it shows as SF in my transaction? I can confirm the 10% "fee".For shits and giggles, I decided to buy $100 of XPY with my rewards credit card, with the intention of immediately transferring to BTC, and then selling on coinbase to USD. Plus it was just $100, so I didn't really care if I lost 10-15% by the time I got back to USD to see how the process worked.Steps I took.1) Input my address and credit card info at Paybase.2) Confirmed my phone number, to which I got a text from Swipe thanking me for signing up and saving my Credit Card data.3) Typed in $100 into the USD field.4) Clicked Buy.5) On the next screen, I was thanked for my order, and informed I was charged $110.26.Note that I was never informed the final price before accepting (I thought it was the $100 I typed in), nor do I see anywhere that I should have been charged a 10% fee.6) My credit card had a pending auth from "Online San Francisco".7) It then took over an hour for the XPY to deposit to Paybase.8) Sent to Coin-Swap, sold for BTC, and sent to Coinbase.9) Final result was $101 in BTC.So if it wouldn't have been for the 10% fee, I would have come out even (plus the 2% rewards i'll get from my credit card). redacted is that you?https://hashtalk.org/topic/28354/pay-by-credit-card-now-live/77 Rootdude lost his mod powers after going on an unbanning spree. He unbanned Scott, then Cyberlizard got his mod powers back, and rebanned Scott.I thought Cyberlizard was getting out because of what he saw happened over there. But now he's ready to double down? I was just quoting clerks, because you had mentioned workers on the death star. Just trying to be funny :-(And its a little different. I'd say the mods are more like Storm Troopers (with their ability to ban and blast lasers). I'd say auxillary people involved (companies partnered with like shapeshift, coin-swap, etc) are more like the contractors building the death star. I don't think the creator of ShapeShift should get any flack for integrating (and then removing) XPY. Randal: The second time around, it wasn't even finished yet. They were still under construction.Dante: So?Randal: A construction job of that magnitude would require a helluva lot more manpower than the Imperial army had to offer. I'll bet there were independent contractors working on that thing: plumbers, aluminum siders, roofers.Dante: Not just Imperials, is what you're getting at.Randal: Exactly. In order to get it built quickly and quietly they'd hire anybody who could do the job. Do you think the average storm trooper knows how to install a toilet main? All they know is killing and white uniforms.Dante: All right, so even if independent contractors are working on the Death Star, why are you uneasy with its destruction?Randal: All those innocent contractors hired to do a job were killed- casualties of a war they had nothing to do with. (notices Dante's confusion) All right, look-you're a roofer, and some juicy government contract comes your way; you got the wife and kids and the two-story in suburbia-this is a government contract, which means all sorts of benefits. All of a sudden these left-wing militants blast you with lasers and wipe out everyone within a three-mile radius. You didn't ask for that. You have no personal politics. You're just trying to scrape out a living.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cFKhV_X6-cg Could it be GAW CEO and the other hash talkers that came over back in the day for the impromptu qa be scrubbing up here as well? Here is another MEGA link (full 1.4GB file):https://mega.co.nz/#!AIUnwZCb!Pe65znHDprZPnvFFhwxdbVdx3d22Tdd2EUNsSYDaN9c---Also, here is a torrent I just created. It is currently being seeded, and I think archive.org is downloading a copy. So check back tomorrow and the torrent should be live there. I'll leave it seeding on my end.https://archive.org/details/hashtalk_torrent Post the URLs here. Someone might have archived them, or maybe they are in Google cache. Could any of this "shredding" be considered as destruction of evidence? Maybe that is a stretch, since they aren't a public company so the CEO isn't under the same level of scrutiny as a Public CEO. At best it seems morally reprehensible to state one thing to pump up your coin to your masses, and the scrub all evidence when the dump hits...With that said, and you might have been joking, but what is the best way to be archiving this info? If we can't trust archive.today/archive.org, how can we save this data? Any way to scrape the content using CURL or the like, and save it locally? Or would it be best to create a shared google drive (or something) and store the content there? I guess he is looking for softballs (bold is mine)? How is he going to deal with btcmiami?https://hashtalk.org/topic/27762/gawceo-on-reddit/96 Interesting:Hard to believe based on the fact that they were selling $20 coins on their site before PayBase launched. Is he trying to say that the $20 they got from the sale was completely offset by other costs?Also, nice that he completely avoided the question. I'm sure he made plenty off the Hashlets, marketplace, etc... Pretty sure NDA means squat if you are a whistleblower... According to Coinmarketcap.com...At 0.01 it will fall to 5th place (below BitShares).At 0.003 it will fall to 11th place (below Peercoin).How far will it fall tonight? This feels like Hashtalk is North Korea, so isolated from the outside and the state controlled media. And now we have people in here trying to air drop information over there. Kinda like some of those North Korean defectors...http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2014/12/north-korean-defector-to-airdrop-dvd-usb-copies-of-the-interview/ I don't think this is a case of ID theft. If you look at the Facebook page you posted, there is a link to a Note he created on August 30th 2011, Cloud based solutions for your small business. If you look, the company he is talking about is Comtel Connect.According to this GAWLabs acquires VoIP development firm Comtel Connect on 9/27/3013. So that is probably how/why/why Joe got involved with GAW.So it seems like this is all a big snipe hunt? Thought I would check Twitter to see if Josh was saying anything about the outage. His last tweet from 10h ago.I like the responses he is getting:
Is PayBase down right now? I've been trying for about that last hour, and keep getting the following. I also tried from a VPN I have, and it is down from there as well. So is this false advertising?Seeing as how 99% of those merchants (those listed plus the 10,000+) are not active, and the one that is doesn't work, this "advertisement" is false. No? Is it just me, or did the article cut off in the middle?Edit: Or i'm just a tard. That last bit was a question for the reader, not Josh. Is that BTC in a wallet not owned by GAW? Is it real BTC or GAWBTC? Based on what? Your anecdotal evidence? I think the fact that a couple hundred million in venture capital, plus the fact that now 10+ BILLION dollar companies accept Bitcoin directly, begs to differ.But what do I know. BitPay just sponsored a college football bowl game, and aired two commercials on TV. I guess they didn't get the memo... Then advertise it as such? They are claiming to avoid credit card network fees, not give me rewards, or discount my purchase based on loyalty.But the way rewards works, typically, is that the bank offering you the credit card is paying you because of a combination of the fees they collect + the APR on the credit card (with the expectation that most people carry a balance).If this is a rewards style type of thing, then GAW is giving away money, as they are not collecting a transaction fee (as expressed in their marketing materials), and there is no balance carry over on which they can collect interest.So I still don't get it. Something I don't get, and GAW keeps advertising:As a consumer, what network fees am I avoiding? Isn't that the merchant which would avoid credit card network fees? Or is the implication that the merchant is passing on the savings of not dealing with a credit card? Since Target/Amazon/Walmart are not directly accepting Paycoin, and I doubt that GAW as a middle man is writing them checks or mailing them cash, how is the merchant saving anything that can be passed on to me?Im just not getting this. Nah, I got out months ago because of what some others had posted here about payments coming from depositors accounts, etc. I just followed a link in another thread and saw this all coming down and wanted to check it out.It really doesn't matter if he is trolling or not I guess. Just wonder how much of a dick the guy is.In all honesty, since it's over and money is lost, people should just ignore this ARG all together. If everyone just dropped out of this ARG, didn't join the chat, or post to his "forum", you'd take away his ability to have fun. Beta was for HashBase. http://hashbase.com used to show some junk content and a email spam link. Now it just says:Code:It works!This is the default web page for this server.The web server software is running but no content has been added, yet.I'm guessing when GAW chose to pivot from mining to payment processing, they dropped the whole hashbase and pushed forward with paybase. God only knows if there ever really was a beta of hashbase. So was the hashie account here hacked, or is he just trolling at this point?and what of bbit? Thanks! The thread title was poor, should have said something like block timestamps out of order. I knew that the height was the correct order (like a linked-list, right?). The timestamps were throwing me off. I was assuming the timestamp was being relayed in UTC from all the nodes when the block was found. But I guess it makes sense that any given miner (or pool) could have a bogus time settings causing issues.I appreciate the quick answers to my question!if only this forum allowed tipping... So are you saying that everyone (100%) that mined hashpoints is going to come out ahead? Or do you think it will be 90%? 50%?Side question, i've seen people here mention that as long as XPY stays north of $4.00, people that mined hashpoints will break even. What is this based on, GAWs comment that 1 hashpoint is worth $0.01 and 400 hashpoints traded for 1 XPY? Couldn't GAW just as easily have claimed that 1 hashpoint was worth $0.02? Or $1? What made it worth anything? I guess with all other "pools" paying out 1 satoshi, there wasn't much choice, but I just wonder why the $4/XPY is a magical breakeven point? I'm probably just missing something completely obvious, but why is it that blocks are being found what looks like out of order?If you look at the image I took from a block explorer, how was block 336404 found before 336403? Same thing happened with blocks 336402 and 336401. Guess he stepped a bit ahead of himself when he said:Based on his ability to make pre-announcements, I wonder if then he really means 2016... I'm confused. They list Overstock as using GoCoin. Pretty sure they use CoinBase. I can't find anything saying they use GoCoin.Is GAW posturing a bit about what merchants accept GoCoin. They state 10,000, however I don't see that number quoted on GoCoins website.You'd think if GoCoin was supporting tigerdirect, overstock, etc, they'd mention that instead of KNC... You don't think that is splitting hairs? What would stop a company from allowing you to buy a "voucher" for BTC with USD or a credit card on one of their websites, and then you take that voucher to another site (which just so happens to be owned by the same company) and can exchange it for BTC to avoid KYC? I'm pretty sure I bought my Primes (back at $16) and Genesis (right before they gave everyone the 50% bonus) "miners" with my credit card from GAWminers. Just out of curiosity, has anyone traced the pre-mined XPY? I know that someone followed it early on, and saw that it had split out a few times, but has anyone followed it further to see where it has gone. I wonder if any of it has gone to coin-swap... FYI, but Amazon does extensive analytics around everything that shows up on their website (from every single link, to text, image, product, etc). Everything is placed in a certain place and for a certain reason. Someone messing with their site and html is probably not something they'd be too happy with.You can be damn sure that if they catch wind of this, and they arn't happy (takes away Prime revenue, causes more support calls, etc) they break it in a second.Edit: thinking about this some more, this "plugin" is going to break some of the tracking and order data Amazon will be able to have on customers if the plugin doesn't work with Amazon accounts (items don't show up under Your Orders, etc). I'd guess Amazon will really not be happy about losing those data points. Didn't something similar happen with AuroraCoin? Around launch, and for a little while, it was the number 2 or 3 coin in terms of market cap. It fell hard, and now is pretty much worthless.I think looking at something for one day, while exciting, is hardly a fair way of measuring market cap. Lets see where things lay in 1 week, 1 month, and then 1 year. I'll bet that it is nowhere close to where it sits right now.
So they are rolling back again? Two times for this update, and two fails. I know that where I work if this happened, heads would roll. Do they have zero test environments that they get these changes in before hoisting them on the masses? Maybe a really dumb question, but *IF* they release the source code and wallets (like Josh said, but really who the fuck knows), what's to stop someone from just making their own compatible staking wallet? I mean, you'd have all of the code, couldn't you just compile it yourself and be off to the races? Except, arn't regulators already working with Bitcoin (bitlicense for example)? http://www.coindesk.com/overstock-ceo-patrick-byrne-1-6m-bitcoin-sales/Actually Overstock's CEO came out and said they would hold 10% of all BTC purchases as BTC. So they aren't dumping everything.He also stated he was looking to push BTC use down into the supply chain and was willing to cut deals for those that choose to accept BTC. The problem is they are not using Paybase to process this transaction. Silly mistakes like this won't happen once GAW is in control of the whole payment process of buying goods online. Just in case there was any doubt...https://hashtalk.org/topic/20681/hashlet-primesBut seriously, I have sold investors in on my plan (to the tune of $100 million). But since nothing is set in stone I can and will change the whole thing up based on the feedback I get from my herd friends here.But seriously, even though I have a plan in mind that I can't share with you, I need ideas, cause...umm...this whole thing is heading towards tits up if i can't string something else together.5 BTC? Is that enough? There is over $390million in VC funding into Bitcoin at this point. All public and verifiable.There are 10+ BILLION dollar companies which accept Bitcoin (and not via gift/debit card or browser plugins). Names have been mentioned in this thread already (Dell, Dish Network, Overstock, etc).There are countless small business which accept Bitcoin (from local coffee shops on up) via QR codes, or Bitcoin terminals (aka Coinkite).There are countless companies in the Bitcoin space working to expand and grow it. From all of the exchanges, to ASIC venders, to wallet provides, to payment processesors, etc.Come back when Paycoin hits at least one of these metrics. Until then, I'll gladdly hold the Bitcoin bag all day long. My bad. I read it as a couple of million by the end of this year, so ya my numbers are going to be orders of magnitude off  I'm has also assumed that miners = customers, but he could literally mean miners, i.e. I have bought 1000 hashlets therefore 1 customer = 1000 miners, which would change the numbers as well.So it's really hard to derive anything, because the word choice leaves it very open to interpretation. From https://www.cryptocoinsnews.com/josh-garza-to-launch-paycoin-media-tour/Many problems with this statement.1) Hashlets don't mine. Josh has said this himself. Therefore, if you own something that doesn't mine, are you a miner?2) If we ignore that, and consider you a "virtual miner", can you claim to be bigger than CEX.io?3) If we ignore that, but look at the numbers mining HashPoints, is there a leg to stand on for the above statement in any way?4) Projections by whom? I'd like to see some real numbers of growth rate of investors/"miners" (how many are you adding each week since inception) so that we can judge this statement? Otherwise, it is just more conjecture.EDIT:Sorry, kept reading and came across this:So if we assume that "a couple of million miners" is like 1.5m today, and majority is 50% (so 750k), and we take the lower of "between $500 and $1500", then they are doing $375m per month in sales. Is that even remotely possible? Is it just me, or does the PayCoin Circle logo bare a striking resemblance to the OnlyCoin logo (https://onlycoin.com)?vs So sounds like it will be for print then. I wonder what publications and when they will be posted. Maybe this got missed in the troll fest that went on for a few pages, but does anyone know the answer to my questions?Is he actually in NY this week still? So with Josh in NY this week for the TV/News interviews, was there ever a schedule posted? Did he ever confirm if it was TV interviews or interviews for print/web?Also, any reason he would need to be in NY? It seems like most of the interviews done on CNN or CNBC these days are via Satellite. Occasionally they will have someone in studio, but it is generally pretty big name/well known people nationally. Down for me as well:http://www.downforeveryoneorjustme.com/hashtalk.org With cgminer can't you do quota and split hashrate over multiple pools. I've never used this, but that was my understanding of how it worked.Granted, I'll bet they are not just running cgminer for this, but I'd assume a similar functionality should be possible to implement. Of all the "cloud" mining vendors out there, do others have payment issues (paying wrong amount, holds on payments, etc)? Honest question, as I haven't spent much time looking at the other vendors, but it seems like it is more of a recurring issue for GAW than others. It seems a large part of this is there strange casino style "mining" where you bought something that was artificially tied to the rate of a different pools payouts, but without actually mining there. Seems like it is more work for GAW, than just creating "RandomHashlet" and assigning a random payout using a provably fair method (ala any number of the bitcoin gambling sites).Also, what is the legality of changing your TOS for a contracted miner i've already bought? Meaning, can they really just change the terms as they see fit on something I have already paid for? Isn't that a breach of contract? If you look at the mobile space (Verizon, ATT, etc) they can't just decide to change the terms on existing subscribers. Thats why some people have unlimited plans still, even though the mobiles no longer sell them. I just wonder if GAW has kept date stamped copies of the TOS and kept track of which miners apply to which version. Or maybe the laws are different, and they can just change the terms on the fly, with no repercussions.[Edit: Fix spelling errors] I feel like someone here called this, that there would be no round three because the investors would take it all (or at least thats is the message that Josh would put out). I tried searching back but I can't find it.Either way, this means the only way to get into the ICO now is via hashpoints. And the only way to get those is via Primes and Zens. Anyone check what prices for those are doing over in the market place? What caught my eye:I wonder if he is talking CNBC? I know they are based in NY. Or maybe Bloomberg or Fox Business? Both also in NY. Login with the wrong account to post that?Either way I'm done with this nonsense. Both of you on ignore. Show we what other thread I've been jumping and spamming my link.If you want to discuss and debate the merits of ltcgear, point me to the thread, and we can debate. As far as I understand, this thread is to discuss the merits of GAW and hashlets. So you should probably try and stay close to the topic, rather than dropping to ad hominem.
Not sure I follow.Are you saying because I feel one cloud mining service is possibly a ponzi, I should feel that way about all of them? How exactly do you feel I'm being a hypocrite? https://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/tu-quoque Feds level first bitcoin securities fraud criminal prosecutionNot that this directly ties into GAW, but it does show the feds are watching this space... What? Don't most of the big exchanges do tens of thousands of volume in BTC per day? According to http://bitcoinity.org/markets/list, they'd be 10th/11th. And 800 to 1500 is a huge range. Not sure why it would fluctuate so much. My initial thoughts was the "major retail adoption" was the fact that they would have a credit card act as the middle man. So in-essence, the retailers aren't accepting hashcoin so much as they are accepting Visa/MC. There are countless other compaines bringing to market a BTC debit/credit card, which I personally don't see the point of.However, in the timeline image, it shows Major Retail Adoption before Credit Card Purchasing. So are they implying that they will have major retailers on-board and accepting hashcoin directly? Seeing as how most major retailers are still dipping their toes into bitcoin, I find it hard to believe that hashcoin is going to have direct interaction with retailers so early on. Why the hell would walmart/amazon work with a no-name crypto, when they have yet to embrace BTC? Unless Josh plans on paying them heavily, which if your a multi-billion dollar company, i'd imagine you'd have to pay them quite a bit. [offtopic]I'd hope they'd invest in something other than SQL Server. Oracle can be pricy, but worth it. I've heard good things about Postgresql, though I've never used it.I'm in a mixed environment now at my work of Oracle and SQL Server. God I hate SQL Server.[/offtopic]But back to the discussion at hand, if they don't open this up to any miner/exchanges, I just don't see how it has any value. Doesn't it just become a circle-jerk for those that are in the circle passing around coins? There are only so many outcomes for this:1) Josh really truly believes he is on to something, and is a man of the people and wants to share his idea with the masses. In the process, he makes some good money, but all goes to plan and he is running a true "bitcoin 2.0" crypto-currency.2) Total scam job. Josh knows it, and is just trying to milk it as long as possible. If that is the case, I can only hope CNBC will run an American Greed episode covering this.Either way, i'd be sweating the big stuff if I was in his shoes. He has a lot riding on this. If all goes well, he'll be praised, and a lot of people here will be eating crow. If it goes down the crapper, at best he'll be run out of the crypto-space. At worst he'll end up in jail with massive restitution fines against him.From reading a number of his posts, email announcements, and responses to his customers, I get the feeling the guy has a huge ego. So he has to make this bigger than life image to pump himself up.  Which makes me think that he is somewhere in the middle of the above two options. He may have started as number 1, but slowly crept into number 2. Not because he wanted to run a scam, but he realized he needed money to get his idea off the ground, and the whole thing snowballed.There is just a lot of promises being made, which as the saying goes "if it's too good to be true..." Which is funny, because the email I just got says:Apparently the cure for centralization is centralization! Wait, what? Looks like there was some problems with blockchain.info for awhile that was holding up transactions. Just got my first confirm, so all looks good!Really like this service so far. If I could ask for anything, it would be some kind of a daily/weekly email that summarized earnings. That way I don't have to log in each day and see how things are going. Trying to withdraw my funds, but I haven't seen anything yet.In Hashhie, I see the following for the withdraw: Type withdraw Amount -0.03446194 Time 2014-11-03 04:29:53 Withdraw address 14KoEHLQyxq92swEmNpbYaYRARZ55avkob Withdraw TXID manualI'm assuming that the last part, Withdraw TXID - Manual means it need to be manually processed by someone on the hashie team? Can this be true, or another bitmain-please-confirm-and-they-never-confirm post?Cool News From Authy! More Traffic then CEX and Coinbase [EDIT: suchmoon beat me to it!]FYI...more on Project Prime. ICO. Credit Card. Shopping. Delivery. Do you go trolling AT&T and Verizon employees at malls that offer free cell phones? Not saying Hashie is good or bad, but a plain site with no owner information doesn't necessarily mean scam. I agree, i'd take a closer look at their thread here, and see what others that use the site have to say. But look at wafflepool. Very plain site, little info, but has done quite well and I don't think any one would argue about him.Hashie did post a picture showing them as ranked 9th on BTCGuild as a proof of their operation.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=822446.msg9229245#msg9229245https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=822446.msg9230458#msg9230458Granted, they could have photoshopped it, as they only were up for 3 hours before pulling it down. I'd say it's about as much proof as GAW has ever posted.That being said, I've bought 100 GHs over there to see how it goes (plus they give you 10 GHs for free for signing up). I made a nice little profit on GAW from selling my Primes I bought at $16. So I'm playing with house money at this point... For anyone interested, I was just able to withdraw my BTC. I also caught this:Not being in the ASIC game, do the other script asics allow mining on scrypt-n? If not, this is a pretty big deal, no? What version of BAMT with the 14.6 drivers? I currently have 1.3 running super stable, and have upgraded my miner to the sgminer 5 beta (so I can mine all the algos). The missing thing for me is the latest at driver, and I was struggling trying to install it myself.Did you download a version of BAMT with the 14.6 driver or did you install it yourself? Any chance the API can be updated to display stats for the multi-algorithm mining normalized values? I got the source from https://github.com/sgminer-dev/sgminer/tree/v5_0, and built under Linux. So not using the binaries you built.For reference, two of the pools that are showing as dead are:stratum.simplevert.com:3343stratum.simpledrk.com:3353I'll try rebuilding again tonight, and see if that some how makes any kind of a difference. I keep bouncing between mining straight exe and waffles scrypt-n pool. I think if we get some more hash on the scrypt-n pool, i'd stay full time.
