Sounds really cool Jed. Hi There,In response to a request I received via email asking Vekja.net to respond on this thread, here is our response:We maintain the bulk of the deposited funds in an offline account. We always have. I am personally the most security conscious person, by orders of magnitude, that I know of. The ratio of how much is offline is manually maintained by an administrator. In the event a 'run' occurs, the user gets an error message and the transaction immediately is marked as failed. We receive an email. An administrator then investigates to see if nothing is amiss, and if so, I can top up the online funds from one of the offline wallets we maintain.The offline 'wallets' are stored off-site and encrypted. They are backed up (encrypted) in multiple geographical locations as well. They are never connected to the internet, and the wallets are never fed into a bitcoind that is connected to the internet -- just in case a vulnerability exists in the official bitcoin client.Thufir Check out this page for a list of known services that accept Bitcoins as payment:http://www.bitcoin.org/tradeFor web hosting, there is vekja.net, and hostarium.com for VPSs. I'm sorry. It could very well be that your hyper-v is running linux in full-virtualization mode (full is bad). If you ran the client OS in para-virtualization mode, then it would run near full speed. I am not sure if hyper-v supports that or what. Linux is happy to run in para-virtualization mode, so most VM systems can do that just fine. Hyper-v is a microsoft product. That is your answer. It runs windows fine I'm sure, but it is your problem, not VM technology itself.For example, I run bitcoin under Xen (linux/linux) and get khash/sec numbers that run with any I've seen posted.Theoretically, I wouldn't think VM would affect bitcoin performance (coin mining at least) more than maybe a minute amount. The hashing code has zero system calls that need to be passed outside the virtual host, there is no overhead, especially in any good VM system like Xen that utilizes Thread Local Storage, Etc...(not saying Xen is the best, only that bitcoin should run undetectably less good inside a VM as out; it does for me.) That is right that it acts as a bridge for the nodes that -connect to it, however, it does not get their funds. All the nodes are still independent.All that -connect does is this: instructs the bitcoin client to connect to that peer as the one and only peer it connects to. Otherwise, it operates as normal, just as if that had been the only other peer in the world other than you and you didn't use -connect. If your downloaded block count is not up to the networks current value (roughly 67,000 right now, a new one every 7 minutes), then your client is still downloading and verifying blocks. That takes a little hard drive each time it seems. Once it is caught up that little bit of hard drive usage would be only every 7 minutes.It is not memory intensive and currently the database takes only 58 megabytes after being a year old now I believe. 74.82.216.1024/7 High Bandwidth Seed-node, courtesy of https://vekja.netNewcomers to Bitcoin, for faster block downloads to get you started , run bitcoin with the parameter:"-addnode=74.82.216.10" Yes, there is a transaction history.I was always planning an address book. I just wanted to break up the interface into multiple pages first.I will also add the ability you request for creating new (and multiple) addresses.Thank you for the feedback and suggestions madhatter2! I would like to point out then that http://vekja.net has always provided a Free web based Bitcoin account even better than the mybitcoin service mentioned above (in addition to the non-free Email and Web service that I announced earlier). I should have announced this separately before, as there is such great value in a Bitcoin Web App. The value is not just for Grandpa, but is also for anyone who wants to use Bitcoin on a mobile device (or any platform where there is no client yet available).If you haven't done so already, please come check out the https://Vekja.net Bitcoin web app. Registration is free and does not require an email like the mybitcoin service currently does.If you have any questions or suggestions, just use the built in messaging system to send a message to admin. I will be glad to help.For the record: I hereby promise that the Vekna.net Bitcoin account will always remain free (that includes spam free). This was always my intent from the beginning. That's awesome Xunie. It will happen. Also, I bet you this wont be far to follow: Bot nets of compromised machines generating and sending bitcoins anonymously to their master. Vekja.net Presents a Bitcoin Exclusive:True Anonymous Web & Email HostingOur goal: Contribute to the Bitcoin economy and thus destroy the bankers ability to control our destiny through their printing press. Our strategy: Provide Highly Secure Anonymous Web & Email Hosting at Cost, and provide it only through Bitcoin!(A Vekja Account is free, and so is a Vekja Bitcoin Account once you have a general account. The Vekja Hosting Account is our first billable offering. You can choose to activate that or not, independent of your general and Bitcoin accounts.)Sign up now and experience a 30 minute free trial of a Hosting Account.Visit https://vekja.net and sign up for more details! Nice moronic guess pnnac, but you will see shortly how you are wrong about my interest in Bitcoin. My original post was the plain truth. Keep checking the 'We accept Bitcoins' thread.As for Link2Voip people:Do not judge IAX by freeswitches shoddy IAX implementation. That is freeswitch crashing, not IAX silly.As for SIP, it is obviously an inferior protocol. However, due to it being out there first, and due to where it came from, it is unfortunately probably not going away for a long time. That doesn't change that it is an archaic POS protocol that can never be patched enough to bring it into the modern world. You can polish that turd...But anyways, I posted originally because I wanted to thank you for the email you sent which is how I found out about bitcoin, and also because I was very interested in trying out Link2Voip due to you IPSec support, but I wouldn't do so without IAX support. I simply hoped my comment might motivate them to try setting up IAX properly (since I never have had a crash due to IAX in my life). If you ever go, send me another spam and I'll try out your service. Yes, you are how I heard of Bitcoin. I am so very glad you sent out that email. By the way, I signed up an account with you but since you don't support IAX2 I went with another provider. Your IPSec support looked cool though.
