I'm a bit young but I would love to get involved in such an effort.  May I have a quote on how much it would cost for you to stand on the side of the busiest intersection (closest to you of course), with a Ron Paul 2012 sign? For--say--4 hours or more?  http://www.biddingpond.com/item.php?id=207Alright, I am back with more silver but this time in a bundle of four. The auction is only running for one week! Happy bidding. Sold. Moved to Bidding Pond. I am willing to negotiate as well. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IzEsKym2p6QOf course, I will send the number through PM or Email. If you wish to have a scan of the card provided as well, that can be arranged. Once the number is sent, the transaction is final. If you're interested, PM me or email me at immanuel.ortego@gmaildotcom. Thank you.  Let's say all your assets were collected and you only had two options: You could either put them in US dollars or Bitcoins forever. You will never able to save it in another currency again. What do you choose? Thanks. Bah, well the value of the BTC generated will increase nonetheless?  I pay 10 cents per Kilowatt hour. Well, my parents do... My computer consumes around 300 watts full power. I have made 3 BTC in the past 36 hours with my computer on the whole time. Am I making a profit?  This is going to be very significant. I can't help but to imagine 1000s of users on this in the future. I know what I'm asking for this Christmas. Assuming you have a computer of standard power usage and such, at what generation rate (khashes) would be the minimum to be considered making a profit? Also, assume this is a part of the pooled effort.  It's just a low-end 9500GT with an Intel E5200 Dual-core for the CPU. I should of put a second CUDA client up before I left home.  I'm running the CPU and CUDA client at the same time. Am I doing it wrong? One client claims to have 1100 khashes and the GPU has 5000 khashes; however, everything is really sluggish.  If only they had some dirt on Canada... and the statists laughed the answer. The whiskey Not only is the road system problematic under the statist control, in order to make it supposedly effective the fed has to steal even more of my labor. You say there is demand for good quality roads? Then why not let the free market handle it in the first place. Problem solved and the government doesn't have to money from me at gun point. :O Also, the government has no incentive to be efficient due to the lack of profit incentive. Road costs could be a lot cheaper under a private system. Private roads have been made the past, they can still exist today. Businesses want customers to access their storefronts easily so naturally roads will come about. Scew the government monopoly. Give the power to the people. 
He grabbed his revolver I see. My apologies.  but had radioactive qualities.  I am willing to bet none of that would of be possible without the creation of currency. That's the most oxymoronic phrase I have ever read.  How I feel about democracy: The whiskey was quite , a new man was Here's how it works: Each person is allowed to write four words per post and collectively we will work to form a story. The one rule is that you may not reply to yourself. I'll start:As the sky began... However, another group decides to create a competing police force and they start killing and harming your police force's clientele, thereby putting them at a risk of failure. How do you deal with this situation? You see, this is why I don't like Anarcho-Capitalism either.  This is a pretty diverse project. I can't help but to be surprised that less than 50% of us are American.  How can your ideal society possibly be stable though? What's preventing these people from forming coercive bodies that spawned the governments we have today?  They will need some part-time help in the near future. So, it's a little more than a maybe.  I don't know how Anarchists expect their ideal societies to function without at least a minimal stable governing body enforcing property rights or lack of thereof. I'm a minarchist mainly because I believe liberty has to be enforced.  I went to the bullion store and gave them your address, Mr. Wagner. I asked them for a job while I was at it.   Mr. Assange is a very bright man. A true visionary with a great purpose. I want a picture of him above my desk.  I actually intern at our local newspaper. I could attempt to get some Bitcoin advertising going. There's also a Gold and Silver Bullion store down the road. Maybe I could ask them to display some Bitcoin brochures? Have them accept bitcoin for their gold and silver coins? Eh, that's going to take some convincing. Anyways, thanks.  I am curious to see how this forum is politically.  Generally it was a lack of interest or a simple "Oh, that's cool." Save for the one autistic script kiddy who decided it would be an excellent idea to get bitcoin running on every computer in a lab. As far as I know, he's banned from the computers for the rest of the year. He probably didn't fully understand the concept anyways.  Could I theoretically use this prepaid number in physical stores? 16 year old here. I introduced the concept to many friends and a whole class. No dice. 
They audit the Federal Reserve and there's no gold but the fillings in the guard's teeth. The US dollar suffers dramatically. What implications would it have on Bitcoin? Cool, a charity that is actually moral. I am really thinking about investing over $1000 of my savings into Bitcoin. Would this be wise? Is BTC safe and stable at this point? I love how Libertarian this forum is. This is really backwards. Most open source developers release their code then take donations. He can keep his ransomware. I'll take my business elsewhere when competition becomes available.  Unless he lives in a nation that doesn't enforce intellectual property rights.  Haha, he should fix that.  Funny thing is that I was planning to use it for a discount last weekend too. I just decided to get a Kindle instead of an iPod Touch.   If people are still generating Bitcoins, I wouldn't be concerned.  If people are willing to give out there hard-earned Bitcoins so easily, won't that hurt its value when the beneficiaries go to cash it in for practically anything? I am willing to argue that we shouldn't be using BTC for charity. It's harmful in the long run.  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dzm8kTIj_0MFor those who don't understand. I'll take any reasonable BTC offer. The screen doesn't work and it is sold as-is. Its only practical function is the fact it can be recycled at any official Apple Store in exchange for 10% off any screen-driven iPod (http://www.apple.com/recycling/). Any offers?  People could just accept accept money orders to their actual name and real address. There's accountability and no chargebacks. If you have a good application of thermal paste and the CPU clocked properly it shouldn't fail within the time of relevancy. http://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/Feel free to use it to publicize Bitcoin-related news and other discussions.  Yeah, I see where I am going wrong. Thanks! Alright, I'll try this when I get home. Port 22 is blocked at my school. >_< Thank you! I have one question: Do you need to have a good CPU to take full advantage of your GPU when generating bitcoins? I ask because I want to create a bitcoin mining rig with just pure GPU power. I don't want to spend extra on a CPU that I'm not going to use fully.  I have a feeling this is going to be very controversial.  I am trying to create a SOCKs proxy on my local Bitcoin server. It ends up I have no idea what I am doing. I entered the following commands:sudo ssh -ND 443 <my server's hostname>@<my ip address>sudo ssh -ND 9999 <my server's hostname>@<my ip address>I forwarded the ports on my router. In short, it doesn't work. How do I revert these commands?
