Confirmed. Thanks BurtW! I think BurtW will post when it's done. He said sometime Monday. I'll just post it on his behalf...11cea-1h1HgwzAJdu8r5h1pviriV7KGnqc6fUHNqiqCode:Your MinAddress must be less than 11ceaHESUI6voO5mpQPRPYbZinqi/+Xl3nnszgVFxeItBZrdyvqkPWpIvqUg9x3HMD3hyBuVd1S1jA+tazkuDOI88zJU=Balance 0.1 BTC:https://blockchain.info/address/1HgwzAJdu8r5h1pviriV7KGnqc6fUHNqiq BurtW, can you give us an exact deadline (date/time in UTC)? I'll probably have an older address in a couple days. (Sorry dooglus!) I'd offer 2.25 BTC for that, if I was looking to buy more hardware. FedEx delivered my unit. But I'm not sure they should be blamed for a vulnerable design. Securing heavy modules on only one one side is asking for trouble, in my opinion.Since I will most likely not be requesting exchange or repair, and since I already repaired the internal connector damages myself, do you still want pictures of the detached heatsinks and the dent on the corner of the case? I don't think the heatsinks fell off because of shipping. Even with the modules wobbling there was enough of a gap between them to prevent them hitting each other. So I suspect the glue was just not good. Or maybe the heatsinks weren't clean, preventing the glue from sticking to them? The heatsinks that fell off have very little of the glue on them; most of the glue stayed on the chips.Thanks for confirming that C98 isn't critical.I hope Arctic Alumina Thermal Adhesive is thermally conductive enough, as I'll only get one chance. That stuff is permanent.I do have one more question: Some of the chip-top heatsinks that didn't fall off completely, appear to have come loose from some of the chips. This is most noticeable on the long ones that cover 4 chips each. I'm able to push one end around slightly, showing that the glue is no longer holding onto the chips on that end. So there's probably a slight air gap which would reduce the thermal conduction. But I'm afraid to try to pull the heatsink off so I can redo the glue, because it might break the chips that are still holding on. What do you think? I wouldn't buy Bitfury H-cards for more than $150 each currently. They emailed me the tracking number the morning of Mar 3. If you didn't get that, you should contact them. On Mar 7, I received a 1TH Desk for this order. It was shipped Mar 3, but was delayed 2 days because of import paperwork. Thanks zefir for looking into that for us! It's good to know the official recommendation for these situations. Is the ~3 working day backlog for email replies, or shipping out replacement parts after they receive damaged ones?In my case, I still think I can resolve the issues quicker myself, if I can get some info. I did find a couple small components missing, probably because of the loose heatsinks, numbers C98 on one module and C45 on another. I found the C45, though it was a bit damaged, and soldered it back in place. That module seems to work fine now, though I only ran it for less than 30 secs since it's missing heatsinks and I didn't want to fry the chips. The C98 is too tiny to have hope of finding, but interestingly, that module seems to run fine without it. Do you know, or can you find out, whether it's a bad idea to continue running it without C98? If so, can you tell me its specs so I can order it from Digikey?As for the damage to the connectors between the modules and bus board, I managed to repair it successfully. Sorry I didn't take pictures of anything I did. But I do want to highly recommend that Bitmine add a support bar on top of the modules to prevent them wobbling during transit and even afterward. Just a simple narrow strip of metal as long as the case is wide, with screws through it into the top of each module's main heatsink, should stabilize the modules and prevent the damage I found related to that.I doubt that would solve the problem of the small heatsinks falling off though. Does the thermal adhesive they're using just not stick to aluminum (or whatever the heatsinks are made of) well? At this point, I think all I have left to do is find a suitable/better thermal adhesive to put these back on. What about this one?:http://www.arcticsilver.com/arctic_alumina_thermal_adhesive.htmHow important is it to have high thermal conductivity on top of the chips, vs through the board? Definitely. It'd probably take them a couple weeks just to respond to my email with return directions. And then after spending lots of money to ship from US to CH, what's their incentive to not put me at the back of the line behind all the other customers clamoring for their late orders. Also, does anyone have a recommendation for something like the kill-a-watt for 240v circuits in the US?  My 1TH Desk arrived today, but it's damaged:* The back-right-top corner of the case is slightly crushed, which is no big deal by itself.* The 5 modules inside were wobbling side to side, which damaged the headers on the red connector board that supplies the data lines from the mainboard. Many of those header pins are bent, but I can probably bend them back.* The corresponding socket on one of the modules is half broken off. All the solder joints one one side of that socket are broken, but I can probably resolder them, as the pads weren't pulled off.* Some of the small heatsinks for the tops of the chips had fallen off two of the modules and were banging around in the case. I haven't yet found damage caused by that yet though. But how do I reattach those heatsinks? It looks like they were attached by thermal adhesive.I think I can fix most of the damage myself, but what should I buy for reattaching those heatsinks to the chips? Now FedEx wants me to fill out some FCC form:I'll probably choose #7, since I have no way of knowing whether these units actually comply with FCC requirements. But what about someone receiving more than 3 units? Update:I ordered a 600GH Desk in October to be shipped to California USA, ship queue #188. Bitmine informed me Monday morning (Mar 3) that my order would ship soon, with 400GH extra hash power, so I assume I'll get a 1TH Desk. They provided the FedEx tracking number a couple hours later. FedEx contacted me Tuesday morning, asking me to fill out an importer form (tax id, etc) and tell them what materials the "desk" is made of and its country of origin. I replied Tuesday evening with the filled out form and told them it's a computer, not a desk, and that I don't know the country of origin, just that it ships from Switzerland. Delivery was originally expected Wed morning, but we'll see if that gets delayed because I didn't return the form right away. I'll let you guys know if I have to pay any taxes, and how well a 1TH Desk runs in the warm weather here. Then it does seem that most or all of the failed bitcoin withdrawals occurred around Feb 10-12. There are at least 7 people complaining about this on CampBX's facebook page, and CampBX acknowledged at least ~20.I just did a small deposit and withdraw as a test, and everything went quickly as it should. They finally broadcast the withdrawal transaction, only 18 days late.Have bitcoin withdrawals from CampBX been processing quickly (i.e. in minutes) recently or is this an ongoing problem with CampBX? A friend of mine tried to withdraw ~6.5 BTC from his CampBX account 17 days ago. CampBX apparently never broadcast the transaction to the bitcoin network, since blockchain.info doesn't see even an unconfirmed transaction. He submitted a support ticket the next day, and it has now been 16 days with no response. MBP is 3x as expensive as Bitmain, at least at the nominal speeds. 2x as expensive when overclocked. The Bitfury guys are way out of touch with the mining market now. What voltage do the BA boards run at? My best MBP boards can get just over 40GH when the weather's cool. But the main bottleneck seems to be the voltage regulator. Most of my boards are overvolted to around 0.86v, and the speeds are set just below where the regulator would cut out due to overcurrent/temp. At 0.86v, they could usually be clocked higher before getting too many errors, if it weren't for the current limit. I can determine that by turning off a couple chips and clocking higher until the errors start. Do the BA boards have a higher current limit than 30A?
Antonio finally told me the "agreed ship date" for my order. Ship queue #188 was to be shipped Dec 16. I then asked for further clarification on a few aspects of the CPP, and I'll let you guys know what I learn when he replies again. But I think the extra hashrate isn't added until the 20th day after the agreed day, so the CPP should have said shipments can be up to 19 days late, not 10 days. You're just seeing normal random error in estimating network hashrate:http://bitcoin.sipa.be/speed.pngAn apparent 13% drop in a 3-day average is simply a swing from good to bad luck that happens all the time and vice versa. It's most likely not a result of any decrease in actual hashrate. And saving 1W/GH only saves $0.88/GH per year at $0.10/kwh. Bitfury 55nm will be obsoleted by even more efficient tech within a year anyway, so it's not worth the huge premium Punin seems to think it is. How and when did you get your "agreed shipment date", and is it an exact day? It's unfortunate that they didn't spend the little bit extra to gold plate the contacts on the cards like most PC expansion cards are. I think that would have prevented alot of problems. I urge you to get an exact "agreed shipment date" (contingent on payment time) before paying for your order. I paid first and have been asking them over and over for that for weeks and they just stall or pass the buck. It feels like they plan to make up that date later so they can minimize the additional hardware. The Customer Protection Plan is worthless without them stating the date upon which it's all based for your particular order. Note that I'm not talking about an estimated date. We all should know that delays are unpredictable, so estimates are pretty useless. What matters is what timetable the CPP is on, so you can know what amount of hardware you'll get for each possible delayed delivery date. giorgiomassa: Is Dec 16 the "agreed shipment date" for my Oct 13 order (ship queue #188)? And is Feb 15 the 61st day, so I can request a refund on Feb 15? I still have not received an answer about my "agreed shipment date" from your support team, despite asking many times. Set all chip speeds to something slow like 50 with autotune off, and restart chainmminer. If the problem persists, reseat the cards. Does anyone know what delivery estimate they were advertising on their website on Oct 13 when I ordered? Maybe "second week of Dec"? I forgot to take note. They didn't put it in the emails or order history on the site, and I couldn't find a cached copy on archive.org or google. I really hate the vagueness of stuff like "March 3 week" and "week of Dec 15". It makes me feel the person is intentionally trying to leave themselves wiggle room. All the dates in the examples above and below are actual exact days, plain and simple.Here's an even more clear format:**** EXAMPLE ****Ship Queue #|Agreed Shipment Day|Add 10% HW ifactual shipment|Add 20% HW ifactual shipment|Add 30% HW ifactual shipment|Add 40% HW ifactual shipment|Add 50% HW ifactual shipment|Refund available ifactual shipment1 - 50|Dec 1, 2013|Dec 12 - Dec 21|Dec 22 - Dec 31|Jan 1 - Jan 10|Jan 11 - Jan 20|Jan 21 - Jan 30|Jan 31 or later51 - 100|Dec 8, 2013|Dec 19 - Dec 28|Dec 29 - Jan 7|Jan 8 - Jan 17|Jan 18 - Jan 27|Jan 28 - Feb 6|Feb 7 or later101 - 150|Dec 15, 2013|Dec 26 - Jan 4|Jan 5 - Jan 14|Jan 15 - Jan 24|Jan 25 - Feb 3|Feb 4 - Feb 13|Feb 14 or later151 - 200|Dec 22, 2013|Jan 2 - Jan 11|Jan 12 - Jan 21|Jan 22 - Jan 31|Feb 1 - Feb 10|Feb 11 - Feb 20|Feb 21 or later**** END EXAMPLE **** giorgiomassa: I've emailed multiple times trying to determine what the delivery date should have originally been for my order (shipping queue #188), so I can know how far into the CPP I am so far. Antonio has replied to the emails, but without answering the question yet. Can you please consider making that info available to your support staff, or posting some sort of list? It could be as simple as something like this:*** EXAMPLE ***Ship Queue numbers 1-50: "Agreed Shipment Date" = Dec 1 (if actual delivery is after Dec 10, at least 10% additional hardware)Ship Queue numbers 51-100: "Agreed Shipment Date" = Dec 8 (if actual delivery is after Dec 17, at least 10% additional hardware)Ship Queue numbers 101-150: "Agreed Shipment Date" = Dec 15 (if actual delivery is after Dec 24, at least 10% additional hardware)Ship Queue numbers 151-200: "Agreed Shipment Date" = Dec 22 (if actual delivery is after Dec 31, at least 10% additional hardware)...*** END EXAMPLE ***Without a defined start date, the CPP is too vague. Maybe you could take a few minutes to copy my example above and just edit the numbers? For comparison, Bitfury chips use a similar package, and I figure they dissipate about 2.5W in my overvolted rigs with just high-flow fans and no heatsinks. Bitfury chips use thermal pads to dissipate most of the heat through the PCB. Hmm, that hasn't happened to me yet, so I don't know what's the problem. It seems the chips are getting work but are returning tons of bad nonces and other errors. Is this a multi-bank M-board? My first thought is a bad connection, but it's too coincidental for all banks to do that at once. Maybe one of the voltage regulators on the M-board went bad? One should be ~1.8v and the other ~5v. The 5v just powers the rPi, so must be ok. But I can imagine bad 1.8v for chip comm causing weird results like this. I've said it many times before, so I'll let you scroll up for details, but you need to check the output of chainminer and the proxies. I see what you're saying. I placed a test order (which I won't complete since these things are way overpriced!) and they used $760.20/BTC to calc the amount of BTC to be paid, while BitPay was quoting $789.72/BTC at the same time. I'm pretty sure they're not using BitPay as their payment processor. I look forward to hearing whether they give you any trouble when you try to withdraw all your BTC without answering their questions. There are two kinds of miners in the world: those who think 1 BTC in the future is worth 2 BTC in their wallet now, and those who don't. I don't think changing +x to 0755 was the solution. It looked like you had some weird characters in the original command. I think the solution was just retyping the command by hand instead of copying it from somewhere. Does BFG at least display or log per-chip stats in some format? As long as the data is provided somehow, I can find a way to use it the way I use chainminer's .stat.log. The H-card's voltage regulator will shut down temporarily if it gets too hot or if too many amps are pulled from it. So that part does have its own temp sensor, but there are no others that I know of. I don't understand why bfgminer warns about the lack of thermal shutdown, as it's no different than chainminer in that regard. Maybe it's referring to the fact that most other hardware has temp sensors for the board or hashing chips.
It's good to know it worked out ok for you, but I hope someone can find out if they would allow one to trade back to BTC and withdraw that without satisfying all their questions. "1 chips" sounds like a bad connection at the slot, or a bad chip.To get out of a screen without stopping the process, hit ctrl-a d.Since your more recent PMs show you got past the other problems posted here, I'll just reply to the PMs. You got it, just need to put the "n" back in screen.Considering the start times, 2209 should be chainminer and the others the stratum proxies. It seems chainminer can't handle the share diff changing once started. Does BTCGuild let you set a fixed or min diff? You don't want the pool changing it on the fly, so you want to set a high enough min that the pool doesn't think it's necessary to change it. I think Eligius is fully auto so is no good for chainminer.  If they're not hashing with their inventory, it's really a shame. All that inventory sitting on shelves loses 16% of its value per week. Personally I don't mind at all if they are selling used (tested) hardware. That's only a problem in a pre-order scenario where doing so delays delivery of hardware paid for in advance. That said, my guess is they're not mining with their inventory, unfortunately for everyone since they might be more inclined to lower prices if it didn't feel like a loss to do so. At the moment, I would pay $225/card for Feb 1 delivery, or $285/card for Jan 23 delivery. That's mostly based on the current value of BTC, so will change if the exchange rate goes up. It would need to get up to $1020/BTC by tomorrow to make it worth buying a 14-card v3 rig for $5100 (1/4 rig plus 10 more discounted cards). The "pencil mod" is done on the H-cards. Most people are measuring voltage from the top of the inductor on the H-card to the GND screw on the M-board. IMO, it's much better to use the individual H-card's ground though, because there's a significant difference that increases the further the card is from the power connections on the M-board. Using the M-board's GND screw, you might get a measurement of 0.90v at the farthest card and 0.85v at the nearest, while the true voltage on the cards is 0.83v for both. The chips only care about the voltage difference between the power and ground planes on their own card, not the voltage rise on the ground bus across the M-board. A good ground point on an H-card is the exposed ground pad on the back side of the card, behind the regulator IC. If the pool is reporting significantly lower hashrate than the miner, restart the proxies and/or chainminer.If cards are acting up even at low speeds, power off, reseat all cards, power back on. Alternatively, without powering off, you could just rock the cards side to side and front to back to loosen any oxidation on the contacts without fully pulling them out of the rig. Restart chainminer after this to re-init all chips.Restart proxies and/or chainminer if all chips are reporting 0GH. You should not connect more than one PSU to the same rig, because they will fight each other. But there's no harm connecting a single PSU to a rig with as many connections (screw, PCIe, etc) as you want, the more the better within reason. I highly recommend using four 6+2-pin or 8-pin PCIe power cables from your PSU for a full rig. 6-pin PCIe power cables may use the same wire gauge and connector quality, but may not have the best connections inside the PSU or may be too limited by any per-rail OCP. If your PSU doesn't have four 6+2-pin/8-pin connectors, it may not be designed to provide as much continuous power to them as you need. BitFury 55nm is in the same league as most upcoming 28nm mining chips IMO. Switch to Vircurex already!  39GH/s is the average of the cards in my most optimized v2 rig. I raised the voltage to about 0.85v when idle. I never got around to checking when hot. And I spent alot of time finding the best speed settings per chip without overloading the VRMs. When the weather warms like in the last few days here, some cards' VRMs cut out until I tune down the chip speeds just a bit, usually just 2 chips at a time until it's stable again. I run mine at up to 39GH/card. But I pay over $0.30/kwh for electricity so the current prices (in BTC) are a bit too high for me. I'm willing to take a chance on them. What version are they, and how many? Let me know if you want to sell some or all of the rig you have. $200 is unnecessarily low. I'd pay 0.40 BTC per card if shipped today, which is currently $325. So if the exchange rate were to jump up to $935 in the next couple hours, I'd buy more v1.2 cards. I'm more conservative in my hardware purchases than alot of people, so they definitely don't need to reduce the price any lower than $325 to keep sales flowing. Is it missing any components? Does chainminer see all 16 chips on it but it just doesn't hash? Have you tried other cards in the same slot with success? Depending on the kind of "bad", I may be interested in buying bad H-cards and trying to repair. Check the console output of the proxies and chainminer. Connect with ssh, and run 'sudo screen -r' to get the list of running background screens, then 'sudo screen -r xxx' for each one listed. You should have three instances of the stratum proxy and one of chainminer. Look for any errors or suspicious lines, and paste here.
Thanks, that helps somewhat. I just wish they'd straight-up tell me the day when the CPP started. The best I have at the moment is an email received Nov 8 (I paid Oct 13) that said "Your estimate delivery date is last week of december." And when I asked for the date a couple days ago, they said "When your order enters the production stage will be calculated ... the initial estimated shipping date" as if they'll figure it out later, which makes it easier for them to fudge it in their favor.The last full week of Dec started Dec 22 (Sun). If that's what they intend to use, they could just tell me that exact date now.Does anyone know exactly how they were advertising the delivery date back on Oct 13? Maybe it was earlier than "last week of Dec"? Was anyone given an exact "agreed shipping date"? I've been trying to get that from them for my order, and it seems they are trying to avoid stating an exact day. This date was supposed to be set at the time the order entered the shipping queue, because the CPP is based on a number of days after the "agreed shipping date". If they are able to fudge that date later, they can avoid giving additional hardware or refunds. If you have, or can get, a basic crimp/strip tool, you can make cables with parts from eBay and Lowes:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=251966.4420I also have a 13-card v2 rig that I've OV/OC/optimized even more, that's stable at 510GH (over 39GH/card). It's running on the same model PSU. There's no need to get a PSU with way more capacity than needed, as long as you choose a single-rail design from a high-quality manufacturer such as Seasonic. I'm running a full 16-card overclocked v3 rig on a gold 750W Seasonic, and it's perfectly stable at 580GH. I could probably get it up to 620GH if I turned up the voltage a bit more and tweaked the speeds again.I definitely wouldn't run this on just two PCIe power connectors though; they'd probably melt. I made my own cables to connect four PCIe connectors to the screw terminals. The SD card images already have the stratum proxy setup.Pool problems do cause chainminer to stop counting hashes, unfortunately, which can be misleading. I don't have a solution to SD card failure (it's not just corruption), so I just buy lots of SD cards and keep at least one new card ready to go for each rig. At any hint of SD card problems, I pop in a new card and test the old card by putting it in a card reader on another pc and hashing its contents twice and comparing the results, by doing something like 'dd if=/dev/sdb | md5sum'. Usually multiple passes hash differently and I toss the old card and image another backup card for the next time it happens. Silvana, WA https://megabigpower.com/shop/ I have a rig with 13 "pencil-modded" v1 cards doing 510GH at the pool. 33 and 37 hours, not quite a new record yet. Time to move to Vircurex? I did some deposits, trades, and withdrawals there a few days ago and everything worked quickly and perfectly. I also ordered v1.2 cards Fri evening and got a FedEx tracking number about an hour later. No scan yet, but I'll probably see that tonight. Yep, at $965/BTC, half/full rigs fit my formula. I hope that doesn't count as "skyrocketing." Fair enough. I was just looking for the exchange rate to go up a few more percent to meet my BTC/card target, and it did, so I bought 5 cards. If it's even better in the morning, I'll buy another half-rig. Thanks guys! Finally a price worth buying at! Now if the BTC exchange rate would just go a tad higher... If I were unable to answer all their questions to their satisfaction, would they just keep my money indefinitely, or would I be able to trade back to BTC and withdraw that?Is Bitstamp the only exchange doing this? https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=364155.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=370172.0 Is that $16/GH based on the nominal specs of 25GH/card, so $400/card? Although that's a bit higher than my current target price of 0.43 BTC, it's tempting. Sarcasm? Many services can't handle generation txns. As long as the pool is sending as a normal txn, it shouldn't make a difference. Just check blockchain.info to make sure the txn actually has confirms and it didn't come directly from "Newly Generated Coins" like most Eligius payouts.I've moved on to Vircurex. They've processed all my deposits, trades, and withdrawals today quickly. Breath of fresh air after dealing with Cryptsy!
I don't have any boards from Lucko, only one from MrTeal from months ago. But I thought I'd share something I've been using to monitor chip speeds, temps, and number of active engines per chip, while mining. I'm running bfgminer 3.8.1 on linux. This is not a good way to do it, and sometimes it interferes with bfgminer, so YMMV. If someone knows how to patch bfgminer to include this command, either on demand by keystroke, or preferably periodically for logging, I'd appreciate it.Code:~$ chiliport=/dev/ttyUSB1 ; echo -n "ZcX" > $chiliport ; timeout 0.01s cat < $chiliportDEVICE: Chili SCMANUFACTURER: MrTeal and ChipGeekFIRMWARE: 1.2.14eCHIP PARALLELIZATION: NOQUEUE DEPTH:40PROCESSOR 0: 12 engines @ 286 MHz -- MAP: F74F 70 CPROCESSOR 1: 15 engines @ 309 MHz -- MAP: EFFF 63 CPROCESSOR 2: 16 engines @ 313 MHz -- MAP: FFFF 61 CPROCESSOR 3: 15 engines @ 316 MHz -- MAP: FFEF 68 CPROCESSOR 4: 16 engines @ 278 MHz -- MAP: FFFF 63 CPROCESSOR 5: 15 engines @ 270 MHz -- MAP: FFF7 69 CPROCESSOR 6: 15 engines @ 305 MHz -- MAP: FFFD 77 CPROCESSOR 7: 16 engines @ 297 MHz -- MAP: FFFF 76 CTHEORETICAL MAX: 35.63 GH/sENGINES: 120FREQUENCY: 296 MHzCRITICAL TEMPERATURE: 0TOTAL THERMAL CYCLES: 0XLINK MODE: MASTERXLINK PRESENT: NOOKHere's what bfgminer reports at the same time:Code: BFL 0: 67.0C | 35.51/36.34/32.21Gh/s | A:6471 R:3+0(.05%) HW:49474/ 11%--------------------------------------------------------------------------------Select processor to manage using up/down arrow keys BFL 0 : 67.0C | 35.56/36.34/32.21Gh/s | A:6471 R:3+0(.05%) HW:49464/ 11%  BitFORCE SHA256 SC from MrTeal and ChipGeekSerial: FTWWY6BDKernel: bulk queueTemperatures: 33.0C 67.0CVoltages: 3.290 / 1.129 / 11.437I keep hearing that the reported temp is that of the hottest chip, but the ZcX response seems to disagree. It seems more like bfgminer is reporting the average. If you do ZlX (lower-case L), it gives just the temps but with more precision, rounded to 1/4 degree. ZlX seems to work only when mining, not when idle. No need to go all the way to $300. Since the price of BTC has risen recently, I'll pay almost $500. My last IXC deposit to Cryptsy took ~40 hours to show up, and my last DVC deposit is 21 hours late and still counting. They even spent the DVC from the deposit address long ago, yet no sign of it in my account. My last IXC deposit to Cryptsy took ~40 hours to show up, and my last DVC deposit is 21 hours late and still counting. They even spent the DVC from the deposit address long ago, yet no sign of it in my account. My last IXC deposit to Cryptsy took ~40 hours to show up, and my last DVC deposit is 21 hours late and still counting. They even spent the DVC from the deposit address long ago, yet no sign of it in my account. My last IXC deposit to Cryptsy took ~40 hours to show up, and my last DVC deposit is 21 hours late and still counting. They even spent the DVC from the deposit address long ago, yet no sign of it in my account. My last IXC deposit to Cryptsy took ~40 hours to show up, and my last DVC deposit is 21 hours late and still counting. They even spent the DVC from the deposit address long ago, yet no sign of it in my account. My last IXC deposit to Cryptsy took ~40 hours to show up, and my last DVC deposit is 21 hours late and still counting. They even spent the DVC from the deposit address long ago, yet no sign of it in my account. My last IXC deposit to Cryptsy took ~40 hours to show up, and my last DVC deposit is 21 hours late and still counting. They even spent the DVC from the deposit address long ago, yet no sign of it in my account. My last IXC deposit to Cryptsy took ~40 hours to show up, and my last DVC deposit is 21 hours late and still counting. They even spent the DVC from the deposit address long ago, yet no sign of it in my account. It looks to me like many days you have no orders to ship, due to the prices. 180GH Antminers are their own machines and are easy to setup and run IMO. But I guess you're referring to the USB stick version. Tomorrow's difficulty increase is going to be a little less than expected, so I'll currently pay $425 per card shipped Jan 2. BFL is still way overpriced. Take that 230GH unit for example: $18.50/GH and 4.5W/GH. Compare with a 180GH Antminer at $12.60/GH and 2W/GH. And both are now a bad investment IMO, along with Bitfury unless they cut their prices almost in half. Paying more than $10/GH right now is a bad idea. (I count Bitfury as 38GH/card) I might have just bricked my Chili. The flash utility crashed mid-flash, and now no lights come on after a power cycle, except the power light next to the socket. The flash utility no longer displays stats and it hangs as soon as I attempt to flash again. What can I do to diagnose this?I checked the 3.3v and 5v test points and get correct results. The chip core voltage regulators are putting out 0v but I guess those don't come on until the firmware loads?WinXP does recognize the Chili's presence just like before, so I guess the FTDI chip is ok? But with corrupt firmware, the ARM can't accept a flash over USB? Do I need to use JTAG now? Yeah really. They've probably received less than 20 orders in the last 2 weeks. That guy's going to be twiddling his thumbs most of the day.Can we hope that means they'll finally offer reasonable prices? (~$6k for a full rig) At the current exchange rate and difficulty factor, I'd pay $390 per card. If they want to sell, they need to lower the price, or pray that the exchange rate skyrockets again, to at least $1150/BTC.They've lowered the price a few times, but usually too little too late. If they'd been willing to sell at their current $650 price just 12 days ago, I'd have bought a bunch. I had one like this. Well, the high GH and 100% errors part. But it would usually go for days between random occurrences. Cycling power always got it working again, usually for another few days. I sold it to plasticuser recently, so keep an eye out for any solutions he finds. Yes That threaded rod with spacers between the cards is working well to stabilize them so they don't drop offline.
No, each splice has three 18 gauge wires (with extra thick insulation) from the PCIe plug on one end and one 12 gauge wire on the other end. I have 4 ring terminals on each screw. I'm using 4 of these for a rig: There's another reason to use more than 2 cables: reducing the power bill.Let's assume the wires from the PSU to the rig are 18 gauge and 2 ft long, and the rig uses 600W. With two cables (don't use a single cable with two plugs!), we have 6 wires for each of + and -, each carrying 8.3A of current. Each of those 12 wires has a resistance of 0.0128 ohms*, so the voltage drop at 8.3A is 0.106V and the wasted power is 0.88W per wire, for a total waste of 10.6W. If you figure on running these rigs for 6 months and your power cost is $0.15/kwh (mine's twice that), you waste $6.95 just to heat the wires. The connectors probably add significant resistance and therefore waste even more power.Now let's run the numbers for 4 cables instead of 2. 24 wires, 0.0128 ohms, 4.15A, 0.053V, 0.22W/wire, 5.3W total wasted on heating the wires. As a general rule, doubling the number of wires (or their cross-section area, i.e. 15 gauge vs 18 gauge) sharing the same load halves the power wasted. You save at least $3.47 over 6 months and reduce the risk of fire due to overloaded connectors.Since my power costs twice as much as the examples above, I went a little overkill and made cables with one 12 gauge wire instead of three 18 gauge wires, for my modular PSUs, with male PCIe plugs on one end to fit the PSU and ring terminals on the other, for a total of eight 12 gauge wires (four +, four -) per rig.* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_wire_gauge I always adjust voltage (either with a pencil on the older boards or with the trimpot on newer ones) while powered but not hashing. It might be a bad idea, but it hasn't caused me any problems. The concern isn't getting enough power to the rig, it's avoiding overheating of the connectors, since they weren't designed for 320W+ on a single cable. On a 6-pin PCIe connector, the three wires on the clip side are GND and the other three are +12V. http://www.ebay.com/itm/251382532478I don't know if the wires in that cable are too thick for those board holes. I think the V2 M-boards have empty positions for screw blocks. I'd get some PCIe cable extenders from eBay, cut off the male end, and solder the wires into those holes. That would add two more sockets so you can power the rig with four power cables. I'm running two AntMiners (at 180GH each) on a single Corsair TX950 with no problems at all. Don't V3 M-boards have completely different slots than V2 and V1 M-boards? Bitmain is selling hundreds of 180GH AntMiners every week. It's a shame Tytus doesn't want to do the same. He should let MBP sell 1/4 rigs for $2299 to compete with AntMiner.Though both are a little overpriced for me. I'd pay $1900 for a 1/4 rig delivered Dec 24, assuming $720/BTC at bitpay. Haha. I do have one left that I plan to auction soon. Will you bid on it? What's the model number of that 1kW one? Most good high-end PSUs use a DC-DC design for the minor voltages, so don't need a load on them. Someone I know got this also. Did CampBX's email list get leaked? I assume you would need to reship the package to me as soon as you receive it.Yes, 17.1 BTC for one unit. I believe the value of bitcoin mining hardware is more closely tied to the value of bitcoin than to any national currency. I wonder if any bitcoin escrow service would be able to hedge against the exchange rate by selling the BTC while in escrow. I am considering offering you 17.1 BTC, to be put in escrow right away and released to you when I receive the unit. I'm in California. Let me know if this works for you, and we'll discuss the details. Yes, two 6-pin plugs for one AntMiner S1 It's from bitmine.ch, not Cointerra.Have you asked whether they can transfer the order? If so, escrow would only be needed for a day or however long confirmation of the transfer would take. Otherwise, I don't know you well enough to risk the deposit. You need a 6-pin plug for each blade, preferably 6+2-pin plugs to indicate that the PSU is designed to provide at least 150W to each. You can also check your computer's ARP list while the Antminer is plugged into it. Run 'arp -a' at a command prompt. I'm assuming your OS is Windows. You might need to run cmd as admin.
That only works if the AntMiner is asking for an IP by DHCP. Mine came set to static IPs, so they wouldn't show in my router's DHCP client list.Any chance your ethernet cable is bad? What's the IP address on the unit's label? If it doesn't begin with 192.168.2, the above instructions won't work. I'd pay 0.74 BTC for an H-card delivered Dec 19. At $630/BTC, that's $470. I saw the store price at $450 per card briefly but I was too slow. Did anyone else get the $450 price? $700 is way too high now. If the exchange rate shoots up to $950 by morning (highly unlikely IMO), I'll pay $700 for cards. Otherwise I'll just have to wait for Tytus to be willing to sell alot.  I bought 2 of these for 4.25 BTC each from the Dec 5 shipment, and I'm happy with them. But 2 weeks later makes a big difference. The price for Dec 20 shipment would need to be 2.95 BTC to be comparable to my first purchase, in ROI terms. Forgot to mention, ambient temp during the test for the pics was ~20°C. This lot is already being sold to Delarock, but he requested a public record of the transaction with pictures.BFL Single, nominal 60GH/s, actual 61.2GH/sBFL Little Single, nominal 25GH/s, actual 30.5GH/sBFL Little Single, nominal 25GH/s, actual 27.0GH/sBFL Little Single, nominal 25GH/s, actual 23.3GH/sTuniq Ripper 1000W PSUThe above actual performance figures were measured a few weeks ago, and are what I based the prices on. Today, to my surprise, the 23.3GH/s unit came on at 26.3GH/s, with all 8 chips alive instead of 7 before. Bonus if you're lucky!Also included:4 USB cables4-port USB hub2 BFL LS power supplies (untested)3 power cablesOriginal box, manual, and extra cables for Tuniq PSUAll will be shipped out Mon Dec 16 2013 by an overnight service, either USPS or FedEx, for delivery Tue Dec 17 2013.Total price: 3.14 BTCPayment should be sent to 1N2zhcMnyb7fThQvWvQNpmSF1c3EeVyuXr before noon PT Mon Dec 16 2013.Pics:GPG signed: http://pastebin.com/raw.php?i=Uqs3JMtQ Maybe that 500W FSP was multi-rail. That just gets in the way with mining because they often don't allow enough power on a single cable. The 550W Seasonic I linked is single-rail and can supply up to 540W of 12V with no per-cable limits. It also has two 6+2-pin PCIe connectors so you know the cables can handle it. Cheaper PSUs sometimes have only 6-pin connectors, implying possibly lower limits.EDIT: Yep, I just looked up that FSP, and they probably put both PCIe cables on the same ~220W rail. That would explain why it can only power one blade. I have 3 of those coolers to sell, with Chili mounting kits, for 0.35 BTC each plus shipping. US buyers only please.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=304250.msg3619134#msg3619134(pads out of stock now) Don't skimp on the PSU. Buy a brand with a reputation for quality such as Seasonic, and check jonnyguru.com or hardwaresecrets.com to make sure they've tested it with good results. Yes you're going to pay more, but it's worth it.This one's good: http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16817151119&ignorebbr=1   A bit off topic I know, but I also have a BFL Single and 3 BFL Little Singles for sale. PM me with offers. To those who missed out on the auction, or bid too late...I have 3 Chilis for sale at 0.75 BTC each, including overnight shipping on Mon for delivery Tue Dec 17. US buyers only please.Included are USB cables, Hyper 212 Evo coolers, and adapter kits for properly mounting the coolers and backplates. Thermal pads will not be included, but I may be able to order them from FrozenCPU and include with the boards if requested soon enough. The tubes of thermal grease that came with the coolers are unused and will be included. PM me if you're interested.I also have 4 extra coolers and adapter kits for sale. Make me offers. If you already have a v1/v2 M-board and are willing and able to overvolt/overclock to 38GH/card, secure the H-cards from wobbling, and tune the speed settings... Bitfury H-cards at $749 (0.85 BTC at the moment) is currently a better deal than even an overclocked (205GH) Antminer at 4.25 BTC because MBP will deliver about 5 days earlier. In addition, Bitfury uses half as much power. It's still Dec 11 in China, 7:36pm. Paid with bitcoin Mon 6:45pm PT, got "Ready To Ship" email from MBP Tue 7:36am PT, got tracking email from FedEx Tue 9:00am PT.My experiences dealing with MBP have been very positive. If you're concerned about your order, just email them at sales@megabigpower.com and you'll probably get a fast reply. The 10 v1.2 H-cards I bought Monday night shipped today from WA. Three week delay for Dec deliveries:http://bitmine.ch/?p=4192It looks like they'll bump me up to 800 GH/s because of the delay. Mork and lclc will probably get double what they ordered. Username                 Order Number        Payment Date         Payment Type           Product             Hashrate         Destination           Date Shipped         Date ReceivedKeefe220x13 OctoberBitcoinCoinCraft Desk600 GH/sUnited StatesPosition in shipping queue: 18xEstimated delivery date: "last week of December" as of Nov 8 I just meant that if an S1 that shipped Dec 5 will earn X BTC in its lifetime, regardless of what X is believed to be, an S1 shipped Dec 12 will earn X-0.71 BTC in its lifetime. Anyway, let's not derail this thread further.
Oops, off by a zero, meant 0.803 BTC. BTW, I'm planning on overclocking them. They wouldn't be worth it otherwise. I just bought 10 v1.2 cards at 0.803 BTC ($749) each. Thanks Dave for the fair price. I just bought 10 v1.2 cards at 0.803 BTC ($749) each. Thanks Dave for the fair price. Yeah, I don't want to cause problems and jeopardize the schedule for anyone. Just wondering if the shipping process is flexible enough to change that option on some shipments. I just got a reply from Yvonne:Q: "Are v1.2 H-cards in hand for immediate (i.e. same/next day) shipment yet?"A: "They are in stock and ready to ship." I just got a reply from Yvonne:Q: "Are v1.2 H-cards in hand for immediate (i.e. same/next day) shipment yet?"A: "They are in stock and ready to ship." sushi: Is it possible to pay a little extra and upgrade the shipping to UPS Worldwide Express (not Saver) with Saturday Delivery? I'm in California 91730 US. Thursdays are the least optimal day to ship Saver from China to California.Wow, 150 units. Will they really be able to ship all 150 on the same day, Dec 12? An AntMiner S1 shipped Dec 12 is worth 0.71 BTC less than one shipped Dec 5. It's performing as advertised: at 350mhz, it's doing about 180GH using 361W on a 92% efficient PSU. Ambient temp is 22C and reported blade temps are 47C, with fan running 2040rpm. It's not nearly as loud as some other miners I've had. I received mine a few hours ago in California US. Last night, I used UPS My Choice to request the packages be held at the station for pickup, instead of delivering to my house since they usually come late in the evening. They were available at 10am when the customer service desk opened.I've setup one of the units so far, and it works flawlessly. Time to cut up more cables and get the other unit running.  $749 is reasonable at the current exchange rate, though if I have to buy 10 pcs, I'll hold off in hopes of the exchange rate going up before buying.BUT, I don't think the v1 cards are actually in stock:I can't buy at these prices unless I know they'll ship tomorrow. Dave, if I buy some v1 H-cards today at $749, when will they ship? The shop doesn't make it clear whether those are shipping immediately or backordered. It's unfortunate that Dave didn't resume taking orders just a few days earlier, before the exchange rate crashed. At $1150/BTC, $999 would've been 0.87 BTC, a fair deal for an H-board. Now one costs 1.14 BTC, too much. If only he could price these in BTC, like miners' future earnings are. Shouldn't Bitmine have received the chips a week or two ago? The apparent silence about that concerns me. Or did I miss something?"delivery of the first lot of ASICs in the last week of November 2013"http://bitmine.ch/?p=2049 If the exchange rate at Bitstamp gets back up to about $1100/BTC by Monday night, I'll probably buy a few v1.2 cards at $999. At $1200/BTC, I'll buy a bunch more.Or if Dave will accept 0.85 BTC per card now and ship Tue, I'll buy a bunch.  Have you secured your cards so they don't flutter in the airflow? I see the RedFurys are in stock now, 474 pcs, at $299. I won't criticize the price, since USB stick miners are just expensive collectibles anyway. Some scab just bought a v2.2 card. It's probably not coincidence that less than 12 hours after the exchange rate crashed, Dave showed up to say he'd soon start selling hardware again. Maybe whoever's actually supplying the hardware to Dave and punin saw the opportunity to take advantage of people who mistakenly value bitcoin mining hardware in fiat. I won't pay more than 0.85 BTC for a 36GH H-board, maybe 0.90 BTC if I were desperate, regardless (within reason) of the exchange rate. $999 would have made sense 3 days ago, but now it's a ripoff.
Does anyone know how to get UPS to upgrade a shipment to saturday delivery? I called and asked and they said they couldn't change an in-transit shipment. If only they'd let me pickup from their Ontario facility in the morning, as that's just a 20 minute drive.Ontario, CA, United States12/06/20138:45 P.M.Arrival ScanAnchorage, AK, United States12/06/20133:16 P.M.Departure Scan12/06/201312:31 P.M.Arrival ScanOntario, CA, United States12/06/20139:45 A.M.Registered with Clearing Agency. Shipment release pending Clearing Agency review. / Released by Clearing Agency. Now in-transit12/06/20138:04 A.M.Registered with Clearing Agency. Shipment release pending Clearing Agency review. / Shipment submitted to Clearing Agency, awaiting final release.Shenzhen, China12/06/20137:48 P.M.Departure Scan12/06/20133:23 P.M.Export Scan12/06/201312:10 A.M.Arrival ScanShenzhen, China12/05/201311:50 P.M.Departure Scan12/05/20135:08 P.M.Pickup ScanChina12/05/20134:05 A.M.Order Processed: Ready for UPS Maybe that Chili has a chip that sits too low and isn't getting good contact with the cooler? Can you give an ETA on a firmware update that would show per-chip temps and stats? Even better if VRM temps could also be reported separately somehow. Check Table View again. I have two tracking numbers for each package. One was never actually shipped. I guess they had to correct and reprint. If the value of BTC had not risen, he'd be facing a major loss no matter how you look at it. Same for stuff bought now at the price Tytus is asking. I guess you should have bid 4.5 before I did.   They have to ship 34 other units before getting to yours. I think they shipped a smaller qty Dec 5 than they will Dec 6. Oops, my bad. I just realized that Calendar View probably doesn't show anything until a delivery date can be estimated. When I switch to Table View, I see that my two packages actually shipped yesterday, Dec 5!Location              Date            Local Time    ActivityShenzhen, China   12/06/2013   3:09 P.M.     Export Scan                         12/06/2013   12:10 A.M.   Arrival ScanShenzhen, China   12/05/2013   11:50 P.M.   Departure Scan                         12/05/2013   5:08 P.M.     Pickup ScanChina                  12/05/2013   4:05 A.M.     Order Processed: Ready for UPS It's now 4:45pm Dec 6 in China, and I still see nothing coming my way. I should get the 10th and 11th units to be shipped this round, so unless they're shipping out of order or UPS is slow to update, they've shipped fewer than 10 of 120 units so far. The regular service is free, and according to geoloudon should still let you see if a package is coming your way. I signed up for UPS My Choice, but don't see any packages headed my way yet. What growth rate are you using for that prediction? It is very misleading if you're assuming difficulty will not rise during those 2 months. Assuming delivery Dec 16, I wouldn't pay more than ~0.75 BTC per H-board. It might be time to move on to other manufacturers. Yeah that's a shame. With delivery Dec 16, I wouldn't pay more than 550€ including tax. I guess it's time to move on to BitMain's AntMiner or BitMine's CoinCraft. Have you tried adding airflow on the undersides as well? Do you have the $40/yr premium service? What country is that being shipped to? Does UPS show an estimated delivery date? Or a more general "Status" column, that could show things like "Insufficient payment", "Insufficient info", "Shipped Dec 5". BITMAIN, would you be willing to add a column to the list above, "Date Shipped", and update it at the end of each day? That might save you some emails/PMs. Yes, some quick scripting to check the addresses in the list. Payment deadline has passed, and surprisingly 18 units remain unpaid.
I submitted my address twice since the first time I didn't notice the lack of a country field. It (United States) is in the notes field in my second submission. BITMAIN: When you start processing shipments today, could you post here and let us know if you didn't get sufficient info or payment from someone? Thanks. Couldn't ask for more. As I read the OP, the 2.5% discount is on the 3rd unit only, not all 3. The 0.10625 btc is that 2.5% discount on the 3rd unit. A 0.1 btc discount for previous customers would show up in the coupon column, not discount column. BTW, xwr213's final amount doesn't account for the coupon. Cheers! Win-win. If HorseRider wants to buy 1 or 2 more at 5.75 BTC, I'd be happy to oblige!  Thanks elasticband for supporting the auction rules even at your own expense! I thought you were just assisting with the auction, not able to change the rules, however slightly. Sushi, please stick to the official auction rules, end the auction after xwr213's bid, and get some rest. Auction ended 20 minutes after xwr213's bid, 14 seconds before elasticband's post. Sorry elasticband, but you were 14 seconds too late. Whew, auction over at 4.25. It only takes one bid every 19.9 minutes to drag this out for a long time...  Are you going to notify all your users by email that they need to request withdrawal? You shouldn't assume that everyone monitors this thread on this forum. I'm still a little pissed that I didn't get an email prior to the mining servers being shutdown, especially since I didn't even get the expected idle worker notifications. I wonder how many other users were relying on those to alert them to problems.Other than that, I do want to thank you for running a reliable and trustworthy pool while it lasted. 2 @ 4.50 I have 4 coolers for sale. They're the Hyper 212 Evo, and I'll include additional parts for mounting it to the Chili board with the backplate for support. PM me with offers. I think these rigs are sensitive to movement of the cards, especially vibration from airflow when not secured. Occasionally I have to reseat my cards and restart chainminer. Yes: /opt/bitfury/chainminerAnd you don't need to use sudo when working in that directory, as those files (miner.h, etc) are owned by user pi, not root. Don't forget the slash: /opt/bitfury/best.cnf In case you're curious about the math...After the first 5 minutes of chainminer running, the stats are updated every 5 minutes, so the numbers are based on the previous 5 minutes of work. Each core does 4194304 (222) hashes per work unit. 183 work units * 756 cores * 4194304 hashes / 300 seconds = 1.934 billion hashes per second.On average, 1 good nonce (diff=1) should be found per 4294967296 (232) hashes. Since 109 good nonces were found, it calcs the noncerate like this: 109 good nonces * 4294967296 average hashes per nonce / 300 seconds = 1.561 billion hashes per second. This was probably just an unlucky 5 minute interval and you'll see the noncerate higher than the hashrate at other times. The 7 nonce errors are nonces the chip reported as good but chainminer found to be actually bad. This happens because of bad bit flips during the hashing process in the chip and occurs much more often when overclocked too much. Less than 5% average nonce errors is just fine. In this case, we can expect at least 4.8% nonce errors anyway because apparently 36 of the 756 cores are malfunctioning, at least at this clock speed and voltage. The chip's hashing cores are arranged in a 21x36 grid, at least logically, so it is common to find a whole row or column bad. You can see that visually in /tmp/.core.log
Don't forget to recompile chainminer after editing miner.h or nothing will change. Just running 'make' should do that. I like to call the 1.934 number the work rate, though most call it the hashrate. It's based on how many work units were processed. It's a function of the voltage and speed setting (55 in this case), and is usually quite stable, unless the VRM is overloaded/overheating. The 1.561 number, commonly called the noncerate, is based on how many good nonces are found, and will vary randomly even under perfect conditions (i.e. no errors).Here's a legend for your line above:Chip#: 2Flags: AIfDSo (A = autotune on, check the source code for the others)Speed: 55Noncerate: 1.561Hashrate: 1.934Good nonces: 109Nonce errors: 7SPI errors: 0MISO errors: 0Work units: 183Chip position: [0:1]Bad cores: 36 (how many of 756 have not yet found a good nonce)I don't know what the last two sets of numbers are.The boards don't have digital voltage or temp meters, unfortunately. Do you already have lots of airflow over the H-boards?To troubleshoot some problems (besides overheating), login with ssh and check what's going on with chainminer and the proxies. To get the list of screen sessions, do "sudo screen -r". Then do "sudo screen -r 1234" (replace 1234 with one of the numbers in the previous list) to view a session. Hit ctrl-a d to get out of the session without ending it. The first session listed should be chainminer, the other 3 are the proxies. Sometimes I find chainminer spewing errors about a queue being too full. Restarting chainminer with "sudo /opt/bitfury/start-miner.sh" usually fixes it. You can disable one in bfgminer and go looking for the unit with the lights off. Yes, that's what I do. I bought some splitters on ebay, cut them up, and added ring terminals, like what came with the v1 M-boards. I don't like hot connectors. If you want an efficient high-quality PSU, I recommend this one for comfortably powering 8 Klondikes:http://www.tigerdirect.com/applications/SearchTools/item-details.asp?EdpNo=7580853&CatId=2533http://www.hardwaresecrets.com/article/XFX-PRO-750-W-Black-Edition-Full-Modular-Power-Supply-Review/1695/13Up to 92% efficient, fully modular, and top quality (Seasonic KM3 core). Watch out for similarly named older products that aren't as good. I'm in California US, and would prefer to avoid international shipping and import taxes. So I'm going to hold out for other offers for now. I'm gambling that the growth in network hashrate will slow before these become unprofitable for me. Anyone interested in buying more Chilis with coolers for 1.1 BTC? I have 7 left. PM me. Anyone want to sell any Bitfury hardware? I'll currently pay 1 BTC per H-board. I'll even consider buying ones with problems. PM me. I have 8 of these miners for sale, 0.15 BTC each. I'm currently running 4 of them at 5.6 GH/s each (350mhz), and the other 4 are still new in box. PM me with questions. I think BFG works fine in windows with the FTDI driver. Did you wait for the LEDs to go out before starting BFG/CG? I forgot to say to turn off autotune as well. Depending on your chainminer version, it may have ramped up the speed setting until the VRM overloaded.And if miso errors are always coming from specific chips, turn those chips off.Also, check the console output of chainminer and see if it's having any problems with the proxy (lots of queue messages). Would you be interested in more Chilis? I have 8 in hand with coolers already mounted, that I'm willing to sell for 1.1 BTC each. So is this intended to be the "final testing version before the official 0.90-beta release"? The link text doesn't match the filenames for the 64bit offline bundles. Try running them at a lower speed than 53. Maybe start at 49 and work up from there. - I hate how often I have to replace rPi SD cards, and I already have a host pc for other miners, so I lean toward usb connectivity instead of ethernet.- I don't mind lots of separate units.- Free is fine as long as it's stackable.- Noise doesn't matter to me. I can't tolerate any noise in the house, so I run my miners elsewhere.- ATX How about 4 of these ($483 total including shipping in the US)?:http://www.tigerdirect.com/applications/SearchTools/item-details.asp?EdpNo=7580853&CatId=2533http://www.hardwaresecrets.com/article/XFX-PRO-750-W-Black-Edition-Full-Modular-Power-Supply-Review/1695/13Up to 92% efficient, fully modular, and top quality (Seasonic KM3 core). Each can power one full rig and be about 90% efficient. Watch out for similarly named older products that aren't as good. As for the new H-boards (and M-boards?), could you please give us 24 hours advance notice before putting them up for sale? I'd hate to miss out if they all get bought in 15 minutes and I was offline. Or how about putting up a portion of the stock at a time, over a day or two, so everyone gets a good chance to buy?You can ship to the US, right?
Please consider selling the heatsinks separately as well. I would definitely be interested in buying a bunch of them for my current boards. How about opening pre-orders for just the heatsinks, so you can see how much interest there is for old boards? Or is there too much uncertainty about when they'll be ready to ship? Try connecting with an irc client to ircnet.eversible.com and join #bfsbsupport Yes, I believe so. That price is 10x too low. I saw some BFL-based miners sell on this forum recently for about $17/GH, and those use far more electricity. That makes a full BitFury rig worth more than $10,000. He should be selling that lot of 25 rigs for $250,000. The V3 rigs were shipped with the H-board trimpots set to a higher voltage than the original design, so when overclocking you'll usually overload the H-boards' VRMs before getting many nonce errors. You probably have some H-boards with overloaded VRMs. Check /run/shm/.stat.log every 5 minutes and see if the hashrate of some chips are changing significantly. If so, turn down the speeds on all the chips on that H-board until that H-board's VRM can handle it. Peel and stick. How about this one?:http://cgi.ebay.com/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=251377553700I haven't tried it. If anyone wants to use the Hyper 212 Evo cooler on the Chili boards, checkout my pics and parts list for adapting it:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=304250.msg3619134#msg3619134 I'm not going to order more parts for making and selling these kits, so I'll just share the parts list:For each Chili:(4 pcs) http://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/9911-187/492-1088-ND/586408(4 pcs) http://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/3349/3349K-ND/61924(8 pcs) http://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/SAEFZ%20004/H777-ND/274988(4 pcs) http://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/MPMS%20003%200012%20PH/H744-ND/274955(4 pcs) http://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/24432/24432K-ND/1532164(4 pcs 10x20mm or 1 pc 35x35mm) http://www.frozencpu.com/products/16882/thr-167/Fujipoly_Extreme_System_Builder_Thermal_Pad_-_60_x_50_x_05_-_Thermal_Conductivity_110_WmK.htmlRemoved from the list are the large nylon washers for the board feet, since I discovered that the board's holes are a bit too small for the standoffs that come with the cooler. I just have my Chili's resting on the 4 screw heads that attach the backplate. Is the VRM working? Check voltage at the top of the Pulse inductor. You can use the M-board's ground screw for negative if you don't need an accurate reading. If the autotuner isn't giving you the results you expect, you can use best.cnf to turn it off (lowercase a) and manually set speeds. You don't need to put all the stuff from .stat.log into best.cnf, but it's not a problem either. It only reads the first 3 tab-separated columns and ignores the rest. Nice! Maybe you could determine the amperage by measuring the resistance of the wire bundle between the reg and card while powered off, and voltage drop while running. Though it might not be possible to isolate it for the resistance measurement without desoldering.Do those wires get hot? Could you make H-boards with that Intersil reg onboard? Do you know how many amps you're pulling from that 30A regulator? Don't you want something a little beefier like 40A? And is an output side inductor unnecessary for that regulator? What's chainminer doing?Code:sudo screen -r `sudo screen -r | grep -m1 Detached | cut -b2-7` Just forget about what Dave said there. V3 M-boards do have 4 banks of 4 slots each. If a chip or card is not forwarding messages properly, all chips after it within that bank will have a problem also. This is a communication issue. Power distribution is not chained like that; each card taps into the same power planes on the M-board, and each chip on a card taps into the same power planes on the card.Here's the mapping from the slot numbers printed on the M-board and listed in the summary section of .stat.log, to the web interface:M-board.stat.log|Web interface|0|Bank 1, slot 11|Bank 1, slot 22|Bank 1, slot 33|Bank 1, slot 44|Bank 2, slot 55|Bank 2, slot 66|Bank 2, slot 77|Bank 2, slot 88|Bank 3, slot 99|Bank 3, slot 10A|Bank 3, slot 11B|Bank 3, slot 12C|Bank 4, slot 13D|Bank 4, slot 14E|Bank 4, slot 15F|Bank 4, slot 16(How can I put gridlines in a table in bbcode?) Oops, I left off an important part. Here's the complete command:Code:sudo screen -r `sudo screen -r | grep -m1 Detached | cut -b2-7` You are now running the back cards at a much lower voltage than the front ones. Unless you accounted for the voltage rise on the ground plane from front to back of the M-board? The voltage between the M-board's ground screw and the top of the inductor, will vary depending on how close that card is to the M-board's power input. But the chips only care about the voltage between the card's ground and power planes. The correct way to measure voltage is between the top of the inductor and the back of the card's VRM (the exposed silver pad). That will remain the same regardless of which slot the card is in (except for airflow and temperature affecting the VRM, trimpot, or pencil-modded resistor). Login with ssh and check what chainminer is doing:Code:sudo screen -r | grep -m1 Detached | cut -b2-7EDIT:I omitted an important part. Here's the complete command:Code:sudo screen -r `sudo screen -r | grep -m1 Detached | cut -b2-7` I, and a few others, have now received our payouts. Thanks Graet. Everyone check your wallets now.
Overloading power connectors shouldn't cause some boards to hash and some to not. Have you tried rearranging the cards and seeing if the problem follows those 3 cards? You might need to just turn down the voltage on those just a bit. I am also waiting for a payout to be broadcast. It's been over 56 hours.20:10 < jimbit> stop lookin at porn and fix the payouts 20:10 <@Wayno> no20:11 < Mr_Steve> please?20:11 <@Wayno> i cannot at this current time I think the real key is cooling the VRMs. Also, don't assume that a riser won't short things. I haven't checked, but the PCIe spec might have many ground pins between the data pins, and a riser just might connect those all together. Since these boards don't follow PCIe spec, you might end up shorting power or worse. That PSU is definitely insufficient, because it is multi-rail and has low per-rail limits. Even if the two cables are on separate rails, you can only pull ~400W from them before you exceed the PSU's specs on those.Go get a high-quality single-rail PSU with at least 700W on the 12V rail.Here's a good one for $90 if you don't need it to be modular: http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16817182073I try to find ones that get good reviews from JonnyGuru or HardOCP. Sounds like your power supply is shutting off due to overload as soon as the cards begin hashing? Are you sure it is capable of providing enough 12v power to the particular connectors you plugged into the rig? Something like this:Code:rm /opt/bitfury/best.cnf ; for i in {1..256} ; do echo -e "$i\taIfDSo\t52" >> /opt/bitfury/best.cnf ; done Chainminer isn't just the web interface.But anyway, here's the latest results from my manually-tuned v3 rig:http://pastebin.com/raw.php?i=AM2rWAUgI never adjusted the trimpots. I first turned off autotune and set all the speeds to 52, then rearranged cards a few times until they stopped cycling (or maybe the weather getting cooler did the trick). Maybe some slots get more airflow from my fans than others. Then I increased the speeds until cycling happened again and decreased the speeds for all chips on the cycling cards, increasing other cards' speeds until they cycled, etc. Once I got all cards stable, I began adjusting speeds of individual chips to find their sweet spots (speed vs error %). At one point, a card began cycling again, so I disabled one of the chips on that card that was producing half errors at any speed, to reduce the card's power usage and stop it from cycling. Have you already tried turning the speed down to 52 or 51? A few of my cards won't stay running at 53 or higher. I just do sudo poweroff, wait for all but the red light on the rPi to go off, and then shut off the PSU. Even v3 M-boards have 4 banks of 4 slots each.Try reseating cards, or rotate the 4 cards within a bank.If you think the problem is related to VRM thermal/current overload, try disabling a chip or two on each card, or turn down the voltage with the trimpots. Did you request your units be shipped without bootloader? No, use sudo:Code:sudo /opt/bitfury/start-miner.sh See above. That's happened to me with chainminer before. I just rebooted the rPi or restarted chainminer until it worked. Also, be patient, sometimes it takes a minute or two to get past that point. .stat.log doesn't exist because chainminer isn't working right, not the other way around. Try running chainminer directly like this, to see if it gives any explanation for not working:Code:sudo killall -q miner ; cd /run/shm ; sudo /opt/bitfury/chainminer/miner Reboot it until the problem goes away. Try reseating boards also. Is there also a temp sensor in the VRM area that the firmware watches but doesn't report? Is just one of the cards producing all those spi/miso errors?  About the voltage measurement, yes while running, but read this: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=287590.msg3542758#msg3542758If the voltage is too high, they might begin hashing for a bit until the regulator gets overloaded by a rise in temp.
 I don't think chainminer is any different. AFAIK, the boards have no temp sensors anywhere.  He probably sold the BTC and bought all the components (except Avalon chips) with it. Check that it has the right gateway address. Is your router 192.168.0.1 or 192.168.1.1 or something else? My router is 192.168.0.1 and my rPi is correctly using it as its default gateway:Code:pi@192-168-0-249:~$ routeKernel IP routing tableDestination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Ifacedefault         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0192.168.0.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0 Maybe the router is only telling you the devices that requested an IP via DHCP?Once logged into the rPi with putty, try a traceroute to some internet IP address (i.e. 74.125.224.164) and see if/where it stops. Reboot again or restart chainminer. Try 3.7.2? Maybe full support was only very recently added.But you should see them somewhere in device manager. Did zadig see the correct number of K16 devices?Are you sure the units are actually coming on? If I power up mine with the yellow fan plugged into the board's fan pins, it doesn't init, and doesn't even spin the fan, just gets really hot. If I then unplug/replug the fan, some lights blink, windows sees a usb device plugged in, and the fan starts spinning. Chainminer's autotune function doesn't kick in until 5 or 10 minutes (not sure which) after it starts. Also, the stats in the first 5 minutes aren't reliable. But if you think autotune is the problem, create /opt/bitfury/best.cnf like this and restart chainminer:Code:1 aIfDSo 532 aIfDSo 533 aIfDSo 53...256 aIfDSo 53Note: Not sure if it matters, but those are tab chars between the columns, not spaces.Here's a simple script to easily create such a best.cnf:Code:rm /opt/bitfury/best.cnf ; for i in {1..256} ; do echo -e "$i\taIfDSo\t53" >> /opt/bitfury/best.cnf ; done I'm running cgminer 3.7.2 on windows xp for testing my klondikes. I had to install the WinUSB driver using the zadig utility provided on cgminer's site (the WinUSB driver is in the zadig exe), but other than that, the latest cgminer works right out of the box on windows.http://ck.kolivas.org/apps/cgminer/http://ck.kolivas.org/apps/cgminer/zadig/ 150W on a 6-pin connector pulls about 4A through each of the 3 positive wires/pins. 150W on a 8-pin connector pulls about 4A through each of the 3 positive wires/pins. No difference. And usually the connectors are rated for much more than 4A per pin anyway. The question is are they using the same quality connector for both the 6-pin and 8-pin connectors on the same PSU. I assume they are. I'd assume a problem with the M-board. RMA? Thanks! Pretty sure you can only use one EOL card then. Want to sell one to me? EOL cards must be at the end of a bank, because no cards after them (even other EOL cards) will be seen. Do you have a single-bank v1 M-board, or a 4-bank v2/v3? My point is that both 6-pin and 8-pin connectors use the same number of wires for the 12v line, so if they use the same quality wires for both 6-pin and 8-pin cables, then you can be sure the connector and cable can handle 150W on even the 6-pin connectors. As long as they tied all the 12v wires to the same mount point in the PSU, you're fine to pull 150W on the 6-pin's. I accidentally cleared my crontab earlier, while trying to add my own logging script. Can someone show me their crontab for a v3 rig? One of those 4 connectors is a 6+2 pin, which is designed for 150W. Assuming they use the same gauge wiring on all the cables, it should be safe to pull 150W from each 6-pin's as well (both 6 and 8 pin connectors use only 3 positive wires). Though I suppose the PSU's internal connections could be poorly designed. The PSU can do a total of 500W on the single 12V rail, so I'd say you can probably run 8 K16's without problem. Probably the added airflow over the back of the regulator area. Ah, I think I see what you did. The thin wire over the fuse? Is that supposed to break if the fuse trips, so you can see that it happened?
Just FYI... There is a small problem with measuring voltage like that, but it's still the easiest way in a crowded rig. There's a significant and varying voltage drop on the ground line between the power supply and a card. Just between the M-board's GND terminal and a slot's ground pins, there's a drop of between 0.023v (slot 0) and 0.067v (slot F) on my v1 rig. So while it may look like you're running a card at 0.900v when measured the easy way, it could actually be as low as 0.833v. And I didn't even account for any further drop from the slot to the chips' ground plane. I just powered up my new full rig, v3.0 M-board, 16 v2.2 H-boards. No heatsinks, 3 fans side by side (120mm, 148 cfm each). Getting 575 GH/s without tweaking. Using 622W at the wall, plus 30W for the fans (PSU is 86% efficient). Very nice!The v3.0 M-board has two 6-pin PCIe power sockets and also the screw terminals like the v1.0 M-boards. Using an extra adapter from an older kit, I'm able to plug 4 cables from my PSU into the M-board. This should solve my concerns about pulling alot of current through just two cables. First, get alot of airflow through the cards. A cheap large box fan would probably suffice. If that doesn't solve the problem, you can turn off a few chips on each H-board to reduce the heat and current draw to prevent the regulator from shutting off. Let the autotuner do its thing with the rest of the chips. Do that by creating /opt/bitfury/best.cnf with something like this:Code:1 AIfDSo 542 AIfDSo 543 aifdso 04 AIfDSo 545 AIfDSo 546 AIfDSo 547 aifdso 08 AIfDSo 549 AIfDSo 5410 AIfDSo 5411 aifdso 012 AIfDSo 5413 AIfDSo 5414 AIfDSo 5415 aifdso 016 AIfDSo 5417 AIfDSo 54...256 AIfDSo 54Restart chainminer after changing best.cnf:Code:sudo /opt/bitfury/start-miner.sh It looks like the EU distributor has them in stock now for $336. I think the problem with paralleling multiple PSUs is not only if one is shut off. What if one is trying to regulate at 11.95v and the other at 12.05v? That's like shorting 0.1v. Maybe not disastrous, but probably not a good idea. It also would cause one PSU to supply most or all of the power for the shared load. You should not connect multiple power supplies together like that. Their voltage regulators will fight each other.It is usually ok to plug multiple power supplies into graphics cards because they usually keep the various power inputs isolated, running each 12v input to separate core voltage regulators. But with these bitfury rigs, the inputs are connected directly together. I requested shipment Sat afternoon and got a tracking number Sun evening. He also answered a few questions. Ah, just got a tracking number for that order! Order 67x not shipped yet.  Do the new M-boards have only two 6-pin power sockets and no other power input terminals? I'm uncomfortable having so much amperage flowing through these wires. My v1 rig with 12 H-boards is pulling only 400W from two PCIe cables and those connections are hot. I'm concerned about pulling up to 600W through the same kind of connection. Maybe I should desolder the 6-pin sockets and solder wires directly to the board? Isn't kapton tape a thermal insulator? Are you using the second heatsink purely as a symmetrical backplate, not to remove heat? What holds the short standoffs to the board? If I remember correctly, the supplied nuts only fit the taller standoffs (i.e. for Socket 1155). Thanks for the update steamboat! It's good to hear exactly what's still being worked on. Don't you need a level shifter on the comm lines? Is there a way to determine a board's current firmware version with a serial console? I don't know if I already have 14c, and they're connected to a linux pc. I tried the ZCX command but the output doesn't appear to include the firmware version. Do you think any Oct rigs will be shipped out to customers this week? A better test would be to power the card and measure voltage at the top of the Pulse inductor. If you get ~0.75v there (or whatever it's adjusted to), the power circuit (including that capacitor) is probably fine. I only say "probably" because I just fixed a board that was missing a cap on the back side. Before replacing that tiny back-side cap, the voltage at the Pulse top was correct, but the card wouldn't hash stably. One of mine is. It often goes into spew-errors mode, requiring a power cycle. Glue? You probably mean thermal paste, which won't keep things stuck on reliably. Are you still using the old version of chainminer that shipped with the v1 M-boards? It either doesn't change the clocks, or it doesn't display it right. I upgraded to the latest version on github, and now autotune actually works (except for half-dead chips). But make sure to edit the version number before compiling if you have a v1 M-board!
The column after the [4:x] shows how many of the 756 cores have not produced good results. It looks like chips 5 and 12 are half (or more) dead, so you'll need to leave autotune off and just accept that the noncerate on those will be less than half their hashrate. You can try different speeds to see what produces the best noncerate. You'll probably want to clock them as high as the rest, and just expect 50%+ error rate. Chainminer autotune can't handle chips with alot of dead cores and assumes they need to be downclocked or shut off. After running for long enough to get most of the bad-core counts near 0, look at /tmp/.core.log and see what 5 and 12 look like. It'll probably show that one side or the other is dead. Here's one of my half-dead chips:Code:pi@bitfury ~ $ grep ^41 /tmp/.core.log41        35  36  30  22  31  31  35  35  33  39  21  31  34   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        31  35  36  38  29  18  42  27  28  26  25  31  25   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        34  34  36  34  25  28  27  29  26  31  28  26  33   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        32  31  29  40  33  29  28  26  35  40  31  35  42   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        19  23  27  29  40  31  40  18  32  22  35  30  38   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        31  18  26  34  21  25  31  38  39  24  25  34  39   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        30  24  35  34  32  19  33  26  36  38  30  34  34   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        43  28  26  36  24  33  36  26  33  44  23  29  40   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        31  37  32  24  28  31  39  31  22  42  28  37  30   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        36  20  25  35  28  29  30  25  27  25  35  29  33   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        28  25  36  38  24  33  32  27  36  25  28  34  34   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        37  41  36  40  37  24  27  20  39  32  30  34  26   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        32  26  34  28  32  32  26  33  31  36  35  31  23   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        27  31  33  26  24  37  30  32  29  28  26  32  31   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        30  23  25  30  25  23  30  24  30  19  26  39  30   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        29  38  39  33  30  32  32  37  27  25  41  29  32   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        29  31  33  30  30  32  39  37  25  35  19  30  51   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        25  20  22  33  29  39  31  29  30  36  36  34  38   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        19  30  33  37  23  26  29  37  34  28  35  27  24   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        41  23  40  27  32  33  28  36  26  28  45  32  30   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        33  36  29  34  23  36  31  25  27  25  30  37  20   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        24  33  26  38  23  29  23  30  28  41  36  35  23   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        35  31  34  34  28  29  38  18  27  33  31  37  37   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        36  41  30  20  30  35  45  29  37  38  25  26  44   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        43  33  33  27  41  19  27  33  25  30  23  36  31   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        26  26  32  30  30  25  39  33  32  32  35  29  37   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        45  29  34  38  36  25  29  37  34  37  36  26  38   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        30  43  34  25  35  29  28  30  33  27  27  39  28   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        32  27  39  36  38  28  34  44  31  32  37  30  35   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        28  30  37  35  39  16  39  30  25  27  30  46  28   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        35  27  28  30  39  35  19  23  33  39  35  43  30   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        30  31  29  34  28  37  33  22  34  43  37  32  45   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        30  27  39  23  25  24  39  38  28  28  28  29  30   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        27  28  26  29  37   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        27  25  21  32  31   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041        35  31  40  35  22   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   041      312 I think you need to wait for 7 and 8 to stop flashing before running the software. 1. cp /run/shm/.stat.log /opt/bitfury/best.cnf2. If /run/shm/.stat.log doesn't exist, let the miner run for at least 5 minutes and it should be there. Try the latest windows build of bfgminer by itself. Maybe it includes support for the Chili now.http://luke.dashjr.org/programs/bitcoin/files/bfgminer/testing/ Not saying this is your problem necessarily, but I wonder how much difference it makes to orient the heatsink so that some air flows over the VRMs. I'd turn it 90 degrees from how it's shown in that picture. I'm using the Hyper 212 Evo, blowing end to end, which might be creating just a bit of air turbulence around the VRMs. Maybe you need to run as administrator? +1I've lost alot of mining revenue from one of my Chilis because it keeps hanging and needing its power cycled. I'm hoping the firmware update will fix that. Any chance you can give us whatever update you have today even if it doesn't have all the planned features?  Why are you compiling chainminer? If all you're trying to do is change clock speeds, just edit /opt/bitfury/best.cnf and reboot. If that file doesn't exist yet, copy /run/shm/.stat.log to /opt/bitfury/best.cnf first. You removed the plastic from both sides of the pads, right? The plastic on one side is textured, the other smooth.I think it's normal for the heatsink to feel just a little warm, even near the board. I thought that was a problem at first, but when I unplugged the fan, it got almost too hot to touch. He wants to power multiple rigs from one PSU but be able to turn off just one of them. If you're lucky and your chips are very coplanar, you can get away with paste. But usually pad is required because of variance in chip levels. Even without overclocking, a full rig pulls something like 25A from the 12V input. You'll need a much heftier switch than that. Actually the big Pulse component is an inductor. The regulator is the small TI chip below it. I can sell you the good stuff (Fujipoly 11W/mK) for one 8-chip board for $5.69 including shipping within the US. PM me. Thanks for the pics. Aren't those heatsinks for the VR really close to shorting something though? Here's a script I'm running (in screen) to display per-board stats every time chainminer updates the file (every 5 minutes), and copy the full stats to a log dir:Code:pi@bitfury ~ $ cd /run/shm ; if [ ! -e logs ] ; then mkdir logs ; fi ; laststatmod= ; while [ 0 ] ; do statmod=`stat -c %Y .stat.log` ; if [ "$statmod" != "$laststatmod" ] ; then laststatmod=$statmod ; echo ; stat -c %y .stat.log ; grep --color=never -m 1 -A 16 noncerate .stat.log ; cp .stat.log logs/$statmod ; fi ; sleep 5 ; done2013-10-27 09:34:41.136382762 +0000speed:8061 noncerate[GH/s]:321.507 (2.233/chip) hashrate[GH/s]:325.651 good:22457 errors:273 spi-errors:5 miso-errors:0 jobs:323 (record[GH/s]:327.649)0:      900     34.646  36.381  2420    18      0       01:      897     35.591  36.064  2486    9       0       02:      900     35.620  35.535  2488    51      0       03:      901     35.849  35.747  2504    12      1       04:      910     35.978  36.169  2513    45      1       05:      894     36.035  36.085  2517    14      0       06:      891     36.035  36.888  2517    13      0       07:      873     34.947  35.842  2441    79      0       08:      895     36.808  36.941  2571    32      3       02013-10-27 09:39:41.054781143 +0000speed:8067 noncerate[GH/s]:318.558 (2.212/chip) hashrate[GH/s]:326.380 good:22251 errors:307 spi-errors:4 miso-errors:0 jobs:322 (record[GH/s]:327.649)0:      899     36.020  36.455  2516    14      0       01:      899     35.691  36.391  2493    25      0       02:      902     34.331  35.969  2398    138     0       03:      904     36.035  36.148  2517    11      0       04:      909     35.663  35.757  2491    8       0       05:      896     34.417  36.085  2404    12      1       06:      891     35.047  36.930  2448    16      2       07:      873     33.730  35.673  2356    63      1       08:      894     37.624  36.973  2628    20      0       0Watch out for running out of ramdisk space. It will fill up in less than 2 weeks with a full rig. I'll need to think of a way to send the files to another location for storage if I want, or just prune the old data occasionally. I'm doing this logging so I can notice if performance changes over time and which chips are the culprit. Just to share some numbers...So far, without heatsinks, my BitFury rigs are up to a total of 743 GH/s, for 21 H-boards (minus 3 bad chips on one), so an average of 2.23 GH/s per chip or 35.7 GH/s per full board. Ambient is 26C, and I have 3 Delta AFB1212VHE (148 CFM each) fans blowing through both rigs. With my cheapie IR thermometer, I didn't find any spot on the boards hotter than 70C, but I wan't able to focus closer than probably 1" diameter. Average voltage as measured between the top of the Pulse inductor and the M-boards' ground terminal is 0.864v. I'm running the original v1 chainminer on one board and the latest chainminer on the other, both on auto. Total power usage at the wall is 782W including probably 30W for the fans. The PSU should be about 86% efficient. It's putting a heatsink on the back of the voltage regulator that looks like a challenge because of the components around it. Has anyone succeeded with that? Can you recommend a source for suitable heatsinks?
FTFYWe certainly don't want to connect an ohmmeter in that way!Will you be selling any 8-chip boards? It'd be nice to eliminate the voltage regulator bottleneck on overclocking.At what voltage would the chips be ruined if not actually mining and producing heat, such as with the chainminer process shut down? Is .895v where it just gets too hot, or where stuff starts shorting internally? There is plastic on both sides that must be taken off. One side is bumpy, one side is smooth. Remove both. Shipped Tue afternoon after emailing her. Thanks! I have 4 sets left. Each set is pre-cut into 4 10x20mm pieces that can each cover 2 chips, so one set per 8-chip board. The price is $4 per set, plus shipping ($1.69 for 2-3 day USPS First-Class, or $18.11 for 1-day USPS Priority Express to most locations). I'm also in southern California. One of the chips on an H-card received last week has been giving hundreds of miso errors per 5-min, and is giving no good results, but all other chips and cards, before and after in the chain, seem unaffected. Is there something I can do about it, or should I just write off that chip as bad and ignore it? I assume you mean sales@? Orders placed now for H-cards will ship immediately? But I have not yet received shipment notification for an older order of H-cards (not with M-boards, so I've been assuming I'll get the old type). Is that order shipping immediately as well, as in today/tomorrow? Blow more air on the board itself, especially the backside. Wow, that's all? Thanks! The only thing that has changed is letting the unit rest on the screw heads which support it almost as well as the originally planned M+F standoffs that came with the cooler would have. The board is now 8mm off the shelf instead of 12mm. Neither would have raised it an inch or two. I'm putting together my boards and coolers now. Apparently I overestimated the size of the holes that I planned to put the stock 12mm M+F standoffs through for board feet. They don't quite fit. But the board is small enough compared to the cooler mount, that the screw heads provide sufficiently stable feet.I notice that the boards like airflow on the backside, which gets pretty hot otherwise. Performance went up from 32 GH to 37 GH. I'll give you $300 for an EOL board. From his communication with me, it seems his reason for wanting to return the Avalon is that it has taken more time than he expected to configure it. I've tried my best to solve that concern by offering to configure it for him (which he let me begin doing Thu evening) and compensate him for the few days of downtime. I would think he could find a spare hour sometime in the next couple days to let me finish the configuration so he can see that it works as advertised. At that point, he'll have the working unit he originally wanted, and with my downtime compensation he'll have as much BTC as if he had been able to configure it the moment he received it. Of course he may have other unstated motives for changing his mind. The full contract is in the OP. It's too late to clarify it. I can now only ask for a reasonable interpretation of it as originally written. I'd appreciate any input from the community. Is he entitled to return the Avalon before configuring it and determining its functionality? I've made every effort to help him with that. Network settings are tricky. Is this the correct forum section?I recently sold an Avalon and two BFL Singles to wrawb, with a return policy covering under-performance. These units ran fine for me for months. But he says one of the Singles occasionally needs restarting, and he hasn't yet managed to configure the Avalon. He is now trying to partially back out of the trade and return both the Avalon and the one unstable Single. I argue that the return policy only allows him to return units that don't perform as advertised. The one Single may be unstable because of his software (BFL's Easy Miner) or power supply, or insufficient cooling in the room. The Avalon just needs to be configured for his network and pool account. The escrow service we're using doesn't want to take a side without community input.This is the trade contract we agreed to:Wrawb received the units Tue. I've offered to help configure the Avalon, and Wrawb let me access his computer remotely Thu evening. We got as far as connecting the Avalon to his laptop by ethernet and logging into the Avalon's web interface, but his laptop battery ran out before I could configure the wifi and pool settings, and he stopped responding. The next I heard from him was Fri afternoon saying he had repackaged the Avalon and one Single and is planning to ship them back Sat. I told him I would refuse delivery and asked him to allow me to finish configuring the Avalon for him.How should I handle this? My Chili boards are now in transit via USPS Priority Express, scheduled for delivery by noon tomorrow (Sat).   I just received order 17x (8 H-boards), and they're doing an average noncerate of ~29 GH each at the moment. I haven't overvolted them yet.Thanks Dave! New customers aren't exactly lining up for more Bitfury hardware at current prices. Did you notice that the qty in stock in the webstore has been static for a while? Accelero Twin Turbo II?
The competition will soon put you out of business as a hardware seller, if it hasn't already, regardless of what happens to difficulty, unless you drop your prices alot in the next month or two.BTW, will you ever port the improved chainminer back to v1 M-boards? 138.5 GH total, but 3 chips are dead (2 bypassed and 1 at the end of the chain). I overvolted them to an average of 0.78v. I'm using the stock software. Autotune is off, and some chips are set to 54 and some to 55, based on manual testing. I have 4 cards, without problems most of the time. More are arriving later today. I'm guessing those boxes of 20 are from the assembly house, not the ones going out to customers. But what do I know. 17x Mine shipped yesterday. ATX PSUs generally are designed to provide 150W per 6+2-pin plug, so actually using more than 300W per M-board could be a problem. Here are pictures of my adapter kit for mounting the Hyper 212 EVO to a Chili board. Since I don't have any boards in hand yet, I made a simple cardboard model.(click to enlarge)Notes:* I recommend at least 3 full turns of the screws into the standoffs from each end for stability. If you assemble them as shown, the screws should meet right about in the middle of the standoff, about 4-5 threads (full turns) from each end.* The number of washers inserted in the center of the X bracket affects the pressure on the chips/pads, though I'm not sure by how much. By my calculations, 2 or 3 washers should achieve the same pressure as the cooler would apply to a standard cpu with the stock hardware. The kit includes 4 washers for that location, so you can choose how many to use.* The picture shows 4 pads, each 10x20mm, which you can cut in half to cover 8 chips. You can probably get away with not cutting them and covering 2 chips each if you position them very precisely. Make sure you remove the plastic from both sides of the pads.* The 12mm long M+F standoffs I'm using for the board's feet, and their nuts, are the ones that come with the cooler and normally attach the backplate to the board.I already sold all 17 parts kits I had for sale, but I still have thermal pads for 6 more boards, which I'll sell for $2 per board plus shipping.Is anyone interested in these kits for batch 2? Let me know how many. I figure I can get more parts in as soon as Monday if there's enough interest (at least 25 kits to make it worthwhile). Same here. Order #17x is shipping FedEx 2-Day today to California. No, probably early Nov. Dave said something about cutting short the available quantity because he was uncertain about being able to get much more out by the end of Oct. So we should assume that the last orders will ship out Oct 31. The W/GH curve isn't linear. For example, going by some numbers I've seen, dropping from 38 GH to 35 GH could save 40W. That will be a good idea pretty soon. What are your thoughts on cooling capacity of the Hyper 212 Evo vs the Twin Turbo II, with the 11W/mK TIM? I personally prefer the parallel airflow direction of the former. But I want to be sure I'm not limiting my hashrate. I plan on supplying up to 200W (on the DC side) to each unit, so I can overclock the units as much as possible, at least for the first month. As difficulty increases, I'll downclock. What model? That seems like it could limit the overclocking potential. You'll need a mini USB cable, a cooler, and a thermal pad. I'll be putting the Hyper 212 EVO coolers on mine, and I'm selling adapter kits (including the 11W/mK thermal pads) to mount those coolers nicely on these boards and also support them horizontally (such as on a shelf).You'll also need a power supply that can push ~180W on a 6-pin PCIe connector. Ideally your computer's power supply has a 6+2-pin PCIe plug so you can be sure it's designed for at least 150W.  My adapter kit for the Cooler Master Hyper 212 EVO includes:(4x) M3x0.5 12mm pan head screws(4x) 4.7mm nylon spacers (between raised backplate tabs and board)(4x) 0.8mm nylon washers (between board and F+F standoffs)(4x) 6mm F+F standoffs (connects 12mm screws and cooler's spring-loaded screws)(8x) 0.9mm metal washers (1 between each screw head and backplate tab, and up to 4 stacked between cooler and X bracket)(4x) 1.6mm nylon washers (between board and nuts for board support standoffs)Optionally I can include 20x40mm of 11W/mK thermal pad, which can be cut into 10mm squares for 8 chips.Price for kit is $3. Add $2 for pad. Add a flat $1.69 per order for USPS First-Class shipping within the US. Payment in BTC is preferred. M+F standoffs are useless for this project, unless the male end is extra long, and then you'd still need M3 nuts (not the same as the nuts that come with the cooler).The F+F standoffs in that kit are too long and the screws are too short. The screws need to be at least 10mm long, preferably 12mm if you use nylon insulating washers. The standoffs should be no longer than 8mm, and even with 6mm F+F standoffs you'll probably need to add washers between the bracket and cooler to compensate for the low chip height. Yes, the cooler comes with a backplate, but it's designed to fit over an existing backplate in Socket 1155 systems. To fit the Chili, you need to mount the cooler's backplate upside down, and then the stock hardware won't reach. That's the reason for the longer screws. My kit also includes spacers to fill the gap to keep it flat. 10mm might be slightly short, especially with the nylon washers I'll put between the board and standoffs to prevent shorting the traces around the holes if the standoff scrapes through the coating. Who will need an adapter kit for the Hyper 212 EVO?I expect to have all the pieces in hand tomorrow (Tuesday), for 25 kits, of which I'll keep 8 for myself. My kit will include screws, spacers, metal and nylon washers, all specifically chosen to properly mount the Hyper 212 EVO to the Chili board at the proper height without shorting anything, and repurposing the too-tall stock standoffs to support the unit horizontally such as on a shelf. The kit will not include the cooler itself, or the thermal pad which can be bought from FrozenCPU. The Hyper 212 EVO, and probably any other Socket 1155 cooler, is only designed to fit boards with an existing backplate and a chip die 7.8mm off the board. The Chili board will not have an existing backplate and the chip dies will be just 1.2mm off the board. I'll try to make some pictures tomorrow.EDIT: Actually, I have more thermal pad than I need, so could include the 11W/mK pad in 10 of the kits.
Awesome!Will we get tracking numbers before delivery? I'd hate to be away from the house when it arrives. Ah, apparently BitcoinStore charges a flat $4.99 for shipping of orders under $100, otherwise free. And the prices have changed, now $29.32 at BitcoinStore and $32.68 at Amazon. So if price is all that matters, buy from Amazon if buying just one of these coolers. BitcoinStore is cheaper for 2 or more, and they probably ship faster than Amazon's free shipping method. Just trying to help my favorite bitcoin merchant.   Is there a way for us to guess how close we are to the front or back of the batch 1 shipping queue? Is that determined only by when we paid the $300 for the board? I don't know if you're expecting to ship all batch 1 boards over just a few days or a couple weeks. You shouldn't expect to sell them for more than BTC9.40 each right now, assuming they actually hash at 60 GH/s. IMO, Avalon-based miners are currently worth ~$20/GH on the market. So your 128 chips would be worth ~$800 if delivered on boards today. I paid ~$1100 for 128 chips plus ~$1200 for steamboat to assemble them on K16 boards, so even if I received them today, I've lost $1500. For the record, I mostly blame Yifu and company, not steamboat. The big cube is the inductor (Pulse PA0513.441NLT). The small chip is the voltage regulator (TI TPS53355). Read the post two posts above yours. Also:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=304250.msg3318180#msg3318180 Just for everyone's info: I ordered the Hyper 212 EVO coolers from bitcoinstore.com and they shipped them the same day from Bloomington CA so I received them the very next day. The price was an unbeatable $27.94 each including shipping. Compare to Amazon at $33.24.I ordered parts from various places for adapting this cooler to the Chili board, and as soon as I can confirm they will fit well, I'll offer to sell adapter kits. It would be something like 4 each of screws, spacers, and standoffs, for about $3 per set plus shipping. MrTeal/ChipGeek: How high off the board is the top of the chips? And how thick is the pcb? Og escrowed my sale of miners. He's pleasant to work with and replies very fast even at night! I just ordered the 0.5mm 11W/mK Fujipoly from FrozenCPU, and the Hyper 212 EVO from BitcoinStore, but I guess I still need to find substitute hex standoffs and maybe screws. Will the Hyper 212 EVO work sufficiently with the included standoffs, short term? Or will I be unable to run the boards at all until I obtain shorter standoffs?Will these male/female standoffs work well as a direct substitute of the ones that come with the Hyper212?http://www.mouser.com/ds/2/342/M2101-3005-AL-204111.pdfIf so, we could use the stock nuts and wouldn't need to buy screws. Yes. I have 9 BFL FPGA Singles with original power supplies. I intended to trade these in to BFL for their 65nm ASIC units, but I may be better off trying to force a refund through my credit cards and then selling the FPGAs. I just received payment for the 4 units.I have some older units that I plan to sell soon: two 60GH BFL SC Singles, one 30GH BFL SC Little Single, and one 71GH first-batch 3-module Avalon (clocked higher than stock). I'll run some benchmarks before putting up a formal offer to sell/auction, but feel free to make offers now. I am proceeding with the sale to the guy who offered BTC40.00. Unless that falls through, consider this offer to sell to be withdrawn. I'll update the thread title tonight. Each chip has 756 cores. The software tracks which cores have found good nonces. You can see the full details in /tmp/.core.logThe numbers you're looking at are actually how many cores have *not* yet found a good nonce. Over time, if all cores are good, that number will approach 0. I received a private offer of BTC40.00 for all 4 units shipped Oct 7, with no pre-receipt mining revenue credit. I plan to accept that offer unless I receive a better offer here in the next couple hours (before 1 am PT). What would you give for BFL FPGA Singles? Since this forum was down for the last few days, during most of the auction, I must cancel the auction for now. I'll consider starting another soon. I am still interested in selling these 4 units, so feel free to make offers here in the meantime. Highest bids so far:Unit #1 (60.0GH): BTC8.20 by wrawbUnit #2 (51.9GH): no bids yetUnit #3 (60.9GH): BTC8.20 by wrawbUnit #4 (54.8GH): no bids yet Of course. This is an auction, ending 8pm PT Oct 4, and only two units have been bid on so far. Please bid.
Yes, in hand in USA:So I'm taking your bids as follows:BTC8.00 for Unit #1BTC8.00 for Unit #3 You could bid on two of my BFL units for BTC16 (BTC8 each). That would get you about the same hashrate as a Redhash, but using almost half the power:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=306214 I'm auctioning a 60GH BFL unit or two starting at BTC8.00, and you'll effectively start mining Friday evening, even sooner than you need:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=306214 OgNasty of NastyMining can provide escrow service for us:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=303281 The GH/s figures I quoted above are the 3 hour average hashrates reported by the units, not the pool. See the middle column of the three in this bfgminer screenshot:All 4 units running on the TX950 (not for sale):What a winning bidder will receive: EDIT: *** Auction canceled due to forum downtime. All 4 units sold to a private buyer. But I'll be putting up for sale/auction some more BFL units soon. ***I am selling 4 new BFL SC Singles, that BFL shipped Sep 25, 2013. Actually I must say they're slightly used, as I have been mining with them for half a day already and will continue to do so until I ship them to you.Here are the test results from a few hours of mining with bfgminer 3.2.1:Unit #1: 60.0 GH/s, 81°C, 289 WUnit #2: 51.9 GH/s, 66°C, 252 WUnit #3: 60.9 GH/s, 72°C, 299 WUnit #4: 54.8 GH/s, 70°C, 266 WAmbient (intake) temp was about 28°C. Power draw was measured at the wall with a Kill-a-Watt, while powered by my Corsair TX950 PSU at full load where it should be about 86% efficient. NOTE: I am not selling the TX950!I have not attempted to tweak these units, so it may be possible for you to get more performance from them.Start earning as soon as the auction ends (8pm PT on Oct 4, 2013)Since time is money, especially in bitcoin mining, I want to reduce the uncertainty of when you start earning. You will earn bitcoins as if you had received the unit at the moment the auction ends! I will give you the bitcoins you could have mined between the time the auction ends and the time the shipping carrier first attempts delivery to you. When you confirm that you've received the unit and there is no problem with it (and you release escrow if applicable), I will check the package tracking and calculate the amount of bitcoins the unit would have theoretically mined (100% PPS, no txn fees, free electricity) and send it to you within 24 hours.You will not earn bitcoins during the following times:* Before end of auction* During the time it might take you to unbox and plug in the unit* After the first attempted delivery according to the tracking (you are responsible for being available to receive and sign for it)And of course if you must return it due to damage in transit, you will just get your money back and will not receive any extra bitcoins.Auction TermsPricing and payment is purely in bitcoin, with no regard for any currency exchange rate. Payment is due within 24 hours of end of auction.Starting bid is BTC8.00 for each unit. Minimum increment is BTC0.20. The winning bidders will pay just the minimum increment above the second highest bid for the respective unit, similar to how eBay works.You are welcome to bid on multiple units (separately), but please ensure you're not the highest bidder on more units than you intend to buy.Place your bids in this format:BTC12.20 for Unit #3(the BTC symbol is optional)Bidding ends at 8pm PT on Oct 4, 2013.You can compare with TAV's 105 GH/s Redhash miners (Avalon clone) that they just finished auctioning for up to BTC22 each:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=303379.0;allThese BFL units I'm selling use only half as much electricity per GH/s (~4.9W/GH) as those Redhash units (~9.0W/GH). Buyers of my BFL units here will start earning bitcoins around the same time as Redhash buyers receive their units. So these BFL units are worth more than BTC11 each.EscrowI'll gladly use an escrow service if you prefer, and I'm checking out the options. John K is popular and trusted, but he may be too busy lately with other business. OgNasty has offered to provide escrow for this auction, and I believe he'll be able to handle this quickly. I'll pay the escrow fee. If you want to use another escrow, ask me before bidding.ShippingShipping is included in your bid amount.US buyers only! Considering my offer to cover the downtime of shipping, I don't want to deal with the complexities of international shipping, including APO.I will ship the units from Rancho Cucamonga, California, on Monday (Oct 7, 2013) or sooner, by the most optimal service, considering expected time in transit and cost. If you have specific preferences, let me know. Signature will be required at delivery.But you will start earning BTC as soon as the auction ends! (see above)Included PartsBFL SC SingleUSB cable (~3 ft)BFL custom power supply with US plugWarranty and ReturnsI guarantee that the unit will be fully functional (and will hash as fast as advertised above within 5%) when you receive it. If not, to get a full refund (including shipping charges in both directions), you must ship it back out the very next business day after you received it, by the same shipping method used to ship it to you, and in the same packaging, unless I agree otherwise.Beyond that, BFL's current warranty policy reads "This unit’s system board has a lifetime warranty from manufacture defect or component failure." It is my understanding that their warranty doesn't require registration, and that it follows the unit, not just the original buyer. But I take no responsibility for BFL's warranty coverage. What voltage do you get? +1 I might be willing to sell one of my spare v1 M boards. Make me an offer. If you have a v1 M-board, you can only use 1 EOL H-board. If you have a v2 M-board, you can use as many as 4 EOL H-boards, but still at the end of the chains. Should we expect good news today, that the first final boards are on the way to the US? Dave: Can you clarify whether the default ("free") shipping method to US customers is USPS Standard Post (7-8 days to most destinations) or USPS Priority Mail (2-3 days)?If USPS Standard Post, can you add another shipping upgrade to the site for US customers to upgrade to USPS Priority Mail for $5 or something? BFL is predicting their 28nm chips will use barely less W/GH than BitFury's 55nm chips, when they should be at least 3x better than BitFury, if their design was as good. BitFury's 28nm chips (if they plan to do that) ought to be awesome. Shipping to Salt Lake City UT (860mi):FedEx Ground: $9.01, 2 business daysUSPS Standard Post: $11.64, 8 calendar daysUSPS Priority Mail: $12.97, 2 calendar daysUSPS Priority Mail Express: $34.08, 1 calendar dayFedEx Priority Overnight: $60.64, 1 business day I have a rarely-used FedEx account, which gets me a 4% discount on ground shipments and 15% on express. Dave might have an account with UPS or FedEx that gets him a better discount. But using mine, here's a comparison for the example of 5 lb from Everett WA to NYC NY (2870mi):FedEx Ground: $10.55, 7 calendar days (5 business days)USPS Standard Post: $14.20, 8 calendar daysUSPS Priority Mail: $15.30, 2 calendar days ($18.70 if not in flat-rate box)USPS Priority Mail Express: $39.87, 1 calendar dayFedEx Priority Overnight: $71.10, 1 business day In my posts above, I used the commercial (i.e. usps.com, Endicia, Stamps.com, etc) price for Priority. Standard only has a retail price, but it looks like Parcel Select is the commercial equivalent and is just about the same price as retail Standard. Wow! I just checked the speed of USPS Standard Post from Everett WA to Salt Lake City UT (860 miles), and it's also 8 days! And only $1.33 cheaper than USPS Priority Mail (2 days) for 5 pounds (not using any flat-rate box). Please spend that extra $1.33 by default! Dave:This post applies only to shipments within the US...What exactly do you mean by "USPS standard"? Do you mean USPS Priority Mail? That usually delivers in 2 or 3 (depending on destination) calendar days (but no delivery on Sundays or holidays). This does not have a money-back guarantee if delivered late. In my experience (shipping hundreds of packages a day), about 13% of USPS Priority Mail shipments were delivered later than 3 days.Or do you mean something really slow like USPS Standard Post (previously known as USPS Parcel Post)? I sure hope not, as it's not much cheaper (actually more expensive in some cases!) than USPS Priority Mail and is quite a bit slower. For example, a 5 pound package shipped USPS Standard Post from 98203 (Everett WA) to 10001 (NYC NY) costs $14.20 and takes 8 calendar days. But if shipped USPS Priority Mail in a 12x12x5.5" flat-rate box, it costs just $1.10 more ($15.30) and delivers 6 days sooner (2 calendar days). Getting a shipment 6 days sooner is currently worth $165 per 25GH!And for expedited ($199), do you mean USPS Priority Mail Express (previously known as USPS Express Mail)? That delivers in 1 or 2 (depending on destination) calendar days, and can deliver on Sundays and holidays if an extra $12.50 fee is paid at the time of shipment. This does have a money-back guarantee if delivered late. In my experience, 6% of USPS Priority Mail Express shipments were delivered later than the guaranteed time. As for how many destinations get a 2-day guarantee instead of real overnight, I don't have stats handy, but it's alot.Or will you be using FedEx (directly, not through USPS) for expedited shipping, which provides real overnight delivery to (almost?) all US destinations?Points to note:USPS Priority Mail Express is not always "overnight" even within the continental US.USPS Priority Mail Express is usually only 1 day faster than USPS Priority Mail.Not everyone knows that USPS runs their transportation network 7 days a week, so Priority Mail shipped Sat is often delivered Mon even all the way across the country. Only the final delivery trucks take Sundays and holidays off, except for a few delivering the Express Mail for which the $12.50 extra fee was paid.USPS Standard Post is much slower than USPS Priority Mail, yet is sometimes more expensive, especially if the contents can fit in flat-rate Priority boxes.To summarize...Dave, is free shipping going to be USPS Standard Post (2-8 days) or USPS Priority Mail (2-3 days)? If USPS Standard Post, please consider spending a few bucks extra (if that) to upgrade to USPS Priority Mail.And what city will you ship from? Everett WA? Knowing this will help those of us in the US guess how much expedited shipping is worth to us. It's fine. The withdrawal showed up on the website anyway, though it took a few hours after that for it to hit the bitcoin network. Would it be feasible to remove BFL ASIC chips from BFL units and put them on your boards? Your board design may end up being more desirable than BFL's, especially for the clock/voltage control.
Paid. I'll take 3 tickets. FTFYMany Single orders placed in the first hour of opening a year ago, haven't shipped yet. What was your order number, and what day did you pay for it? Most are waiting? Uh no, most can do the math. Jody said everyone (except maybe one) is choosing to get their unit sooner without brick. Put me down for 32 chips. Would you be interested in 10-chip sub-modules from an Avalon rig at 14 BTC each (1.4 BTC per chip)? I just received a refund for the rest of my orders, so all is settled between Tom and I now.To anyone still waiting for a refund, I recommend emailing a polite reminder to Tom at btcfpga@gmail.com. He has been responding to my emails to btcfpga@gmail.com. I expect my remaining refunds today. I'd buy one for $5k but only if I knew I'd receive it within a few days and they wouldn't ship more than a few hundred. But if it's going to take another month to ship batch 3, forget it, at that price. You don't use a bitpay account to pay a merchant. I didn't say that's my best offer.   But if he doesn't like the unit, I'd take it off his hands for 50.I wouldn't sell mine at the moment for even 100 BTC. It will run the fans faster when the ambient temp is higher. I've not seen temp3 (exhaust?) over 50C even when temp1 (intake) was over 40C, but the fans run much faster to reduce the difference between the two. If I were local to him, I'd offer 50 BTC each. Thanks! Now I can see eligius in my pools list, in addition to ozcoin. It's not being done alphabetically. I know the addresses of at least 22 refunds, and they start as follows:1213151616161818191C1D1E1F1H1H1H1H1j1J1J1L1mI sorted the list alphabetically because I didn't note the timestamps when I made the list. But it shows that refunds are being sent to addresses all across the range. Tom, are you replying to such emails, or just silently checking your list? I emailed yesterday and today with my order numbers and bitcoin address, and would like confirmation. I did receive a refund a few weeks ago for one unit, but don't know which order it was for. I've been assuming it was for my earliest order (not listed in my emails), but I could be wrong. Did you order a 27 GH unit? What was the USD price of those? I'm in the US. The sender address on the waybill is:MR LIJIAOBEIJING FEIXIANG CO LTDC/O YFHEX2RD INDUSTRIAL DISTRIC HOU RUI VILLXIXIANG TOWN BAOAN DISTRI SHENZHENHONG KONGHONG KONGSender Acct 631053015 I don't think they're providing tracking numbers. But at least a few people in the US have received units, which is even better than tracking numbers. 
I got mine in the US via DHL "Express Worldwide" (WPX).DHL doesn't deliver in the US on Sat or Sun. I don't have plans to setup 240V. As for noise, with 70F ambient, I'm guessing it's quieter than a dual-5970 rig. Can't really say since it's been a long time since I've had any gpus mining in the house.  Tracking shows it was picked up in HK ~50 hours ago. I just received my Avalon! I didn't get a tracking number in advance, and just yesterday afternoon DHL said they didn't see anything coming my way. So don't assume it's not on the way if DHL doesn't find it in the system. I just received my Avalon! I didn't get a tracking number in advance, and just yesterday afternoon DHL said they didn't see anything coming my way. So don't assume it's not on the way if DHL doesn't find it in the system. Thanks BitSyncom for the confirmation! Here's the history of my order so far... (all times are US Eastern)Sep 23 02:16, I ordered one Avalon unit using guest checkout on thier website and received the initial order confirmation email (not payment confirmation)Sep 27 10:14, yifu.guo@avalon-asic.com emailed me requesting the order ID and bitcoin addressSep 27 15:45, I replied to yifu.guo@avalon-asic.com with the order number, order ID, and bitcoin address I sent tono response receivedJan 20 15:23, I emailed yifu.guo@avalon-asic.com:no response receivedJan 21 02:11, I sent a bitcointalk.org PM to BitSyncom:no response receivedJan 23 06:07, I created ticket #56 on support.avalon-asic.com:no response receivedJan 23 06:16, I added a comment to ticket #56:no response receivedFeb 18 12:10, I added a comment to ticket #56:no response received Yes. September 23, 2012 2:16:51 AM EDT Already tried, more than once, in the last month or two. That's why I'm frustrated, because if he cared at all about customers, he wouldn't be ignoring me. First 20 orders, not units. I still suspect they lost my order (and my BTC?) since they've ignored my many attempts to get confirmation. I ordered in the first hour or so when their store website was swamped. I used guest checkout to get through faster, so never had a way to check the order later. Email, forum PM, and the ticket system, have all been black holes. I just called DHL and they don't see anything heading my way. I'm in the US and my order was one of the first 20 of batch 1, so I'm surprised. If others' orders have shipped, why not mine. Uh, cause I've already tried the other methods? I made that clear in my post above. BitSyncom: What about those of us who ordered very early in batch 1 with guest checkout without creating accounts, and never got confirmation of payment received? In the last month or so, I've contacted you many times in different ways, including by support ticket, but got nothing but silence. Can you please respond to ticket #56? How much of the board design work and time was wasted by changing to 8 chips per cluster? Haven't they been working on a design with 6 chips per cluster for many weeks? How much has to be scrapped? I think Tom will ship his bASICs before BFL ships. Tom already has working chips, and is working on the board. BFL is still waiting for the chips from the fab. What if when they get the chips and assemble the first working board they find problems? Do you realize that BFL is not using their in-house production line for the first batch? They'll continue using the company that did their FPGA boards for the first ASICs. Yep, so why do we only see the 2x "die shrink" advantage in these power estimates and nothing else? Where's the additional efficiency gain of going full custom? Shouldn't the BFL be 3x or 4x more efficient, not just 2x?And I'm aware Inaba has already answered this by saying Tom's numbers are unrealistic. But I don't think either one has a working prototype, so we'll just have to wait and see. Latest update:https://forums.butterflylabs.com/content.php/125-BFL-ASIC-Update https://www.btcfpga.com/forum/index.php?topic=4.msg132#msg132 I think it was a couple days ago that he clarified he meant the 54 GH unit, and in the last day he stated more directly that the 54 GH unit should use 100-120w, and the 27 GH unit 50-60w. 
I'm surprised that BFL didn't get better efficiency than they did. Just going from 90nm to 65nm should double efficiency, right? Then where's the additional advantage of using the full custom approach? I'm comparing with the current power estimate of the bASIC. mrb: What are your thoughts about the bASIC line using a little less than 2x the power per GH/s of the BFL SC line? You'd expect a 90nm chip to use twice the power of a 65nm chip all else being equal, right? Then what did BFL gain by going full custom? Shouldn't the BFL be significantly more efficient than 2x? That has been my assumption as well, though I probably got the idea from you mrb. Nice! So what more do you want from BFL? I'm just curious what more you feel they should have done, considering they say they still don't have the final core chips. Without those, they can't demo a working unit. So the board photos they have given us (with fake/faulty/mockup chips?) may be the best they can do. To clarify, I'm suggesting he update the top post of the main thread (or a new one), instead of the info being scattered over 100+ pages. Everything on one page. Why not keep the original post updated with all available info in one place? Wouldn't that make it easier for everyone, yourself included? If a 1kW PSU could power 10 54GH units, it could power 20 27GH units, so he'd advertise it as able to power up to 20 units, not 10. Therefore, I think it's the 27GH unit that uses a little less than 100W. I hope he clarifies soon.  Aha! Now we know why chip production is behind schedule. You bought your chip designer on craigslist!   I'm just joking and mean no offence to Nasser! Have you made any progress toward announcing real power usage? I was hoping "very soon" was less than 26 days. Also, how soon can we see some sort of photos or drawings of the bASIC board? Another thread to reveal the idiots. Most posters here lack understanding of one of the basic concepts of bitcoin mining, random variance. To me, that pic is saying bitcoin is not to be trusted.  Alright, one more scenario, more extreme:Let's assume $12/BTC, $0.25/kwh power cost, and 1000 TH network hashrate after reward halving.Hypothetical device that does 60 GH, costs $1300, and uses 60W:$100K buys about 4600 GH of hardware which will use about 4.6kW of power and earn about $5980 per month, minus about $830 for power, for 5.15% monthly ROI.Hypothetical device that does 54 GH, costs $1070, and uses 405W:$100K buys about 5100 GH of hardware which will use about 38kW of power and earn about $6630 per month, minus about $6885 for power, for -0.26% monthly ROI. Uh oh.Hypothetical device that does 54 GH, costs $1070, and uses 120W:$100K buys about 5100 GH of hardware which will use about 11kW of power and earn about $6630 per month, minus about $2040 for power, for 4.59% monthly ROI.But someone with $100K to invest, ought to find a better place to setup than where power costs $0.25/kwh.And if ~5% monthly ROI were attractive to professional miners, why has mining been historically much more profitable than that, except when the exchange rate fell toward $2? I think 10-20% monthly ROI will continue for the next year or so at least. Though a price war among mining devices could really screw ROI up. The guy with $0.25/kwh power can quit mining and let the professional miner in the right location make up the slack.  I apologize for not making it more clear that the wattage figure was purely hypothetical and came from a competitor. So let's put some figures together...Let's a say a professional miner has $100K to invest in mining hardware and is in a good area where power costs only $0.06/kwh.In the GPU era, with 23 TH network hashrate and 50 BTC block reward, he can buy about 190 GH of GPUs which will use about 63kW of power and earn about $21.5K per month, minus about $2700 for power, for 18.8% monthly ROI.In the ASIC era, with 280 TH network hashrate and 25 BTC block reward, he can buy about 4600 GH of BFL ASICs which will use about 4.6kW of power and earn about $21.4K per month, minus about $200 for power, for 21.2% monthly ROI.$200/mo for powering BFL ASICs is quite an improvement over $2700/mo for GPUs.Now let's imagine a 54 GH bASIC were to use 405W (which I don't believe will be the case):He can buy about 5100 GH of bASICs which will use about 38kW of power and earn about $23.7K per month, minus about $1600 for power, for 22.1% monthly ROI. Hey, we're ahead of BFL still! But putting that point aside, we would only be twice as power efficient as GPUsNow let's try a more realistic scenario, where a 54 GH bASIC might use 120W (this is my personal wild guess):He can buy about 5100 GH of bASICs which will use about 11kW of power and earn about $23.7K per month, minus about $480 for power, for 23.2% monthly ROI. Even better ROI. And now we've cut our power bill to 1/6 of GPUs, very nice.DISCLAIMER: We really don't know yet how much power the bASICs will use. The wattage figures for bASIC above are purely hypothetical and probably wildly wrong. Total network hash power right now is around 23 TH. That's like ~$12M of GPUs, earning ~$2.6M per month (at $12/BTC) minus power cost. When the block reward is halved, $6M of GPUs earning $1.3M per month would have the same ROI. When $1300 buys a 60 GH unit, $6M will buy ~280 TH, and will have a similar ROI. So when looking at power draw of this new hardware, you should account for going from 23 TH to 280 TH. You should adjust a unit's hashrate by 12x to get a fair comparison.I believe that the predominant factor determining how much hardware is mining is ROI. And I believe that it's decided at the margin, by those with cheap power and lots of capital to work with. Those people can buy and setup additional GPUs and FPGAs as the exchange rate goes up and difficulty lags, until price/difficulty is back to where they are comfortable with the ROI. The cost of power, especially for FPGAs and ASICs, isn't that significant compared to the hardware cost. If you spend $1000 on a unit, and only $50 on power for a year, and you earn $2600 in a year, power doesn't make a big % impact on ROI.I don't think botnets and casual miners affect the equation. If there is 2 TH of botnets, that just means the professional miners will likely run 2 TH less hardware, because they're looking at ROI. And if some people decide to stop buying more hardware, as long as there are a few professional miners who will take up the slack it won't matter.Now I do agree with at least one of Gmaxwell's points: GPUs have value outside mining, which can make a big difference in the risk calculation. So maybe professional miners will want a better ROI to compensate. Also, ASICs will likely drop in price (per GH) alot over the next year, as companies like BFL and BTCFPGA fight for market share with products with huge marginal profit (after NRE). Those two factors could make a big difference in where price/difficulty stabilizes. Wow, I didn't expect Cablepair to blow up at me of all people. I've posted in the past on Cablepair's side against Inaba's claims that the bASIC won't be competitive. Are you upset about my latest post just because I referenced Inaba's 405W figure? I made sure to say "IF" a bASIC uses 405W. As Gmaxwell said, I am making a logical argument, despite oversimplifying. FWIW, I've ordered 4 of the bASIC 54GH units, so Cablepair currently holds ~$4400 of my money. I feel a little insulted that I get called a troll in return. Doesn't this answer the OP's question sufficiently? The word "assemble" can be misinterpreted. Soldering components to the PCB? Or putting the PCB (with all components already soldered) together with a cooler into a case? My guess is BFL's first batch will be soldered by the same place that did their FPGA boards, and BFL will put the boards together with coolers in cases in their own facility.
You should be looking at W/$. Capital investment in bitcoin mining hardware will likely be similar in the ASIC era as in the GPU/FPGA era, adjusting by block reward and exchange rate of course. So forget the hashrate. $1070 of GPUs use about 800W of power. $1070 of BFL FPGAs use about 150W of power. If a $1070 bASIC uses 405W, we're taking a step backward to almost GPU levels. $1070 of BFL ASICs should use only 50W of power, a significant step forward. I believe Inaba was thinking along this line when he said that. They've collected millions of dollars in pre-orders. They can afford to throw around $12k on something that will encourage more sales.  90nm... my wild guess is ~2 W/GH. Here are the changes I see for the $1070 unit:Was: Multiple SHA256 hashing cores for a total Bitcoin mining speed of 54Gh/sNow: Two Bitcoin SHA-256 Hashing Clusters with Twelve 90nm ASICs (6 ASICs per cluster)Was: Thermal sensors and on chip heat sinksNow: Dual High Performance heat sinks and fans.Was: DC barrel connector for powerNow: Optional 4 Pin molex or DC barrel connector for powerWas: Compact board design allows easy stacking and coolingNow: Board dimensions 4" x 9"Was: bASIC Mining boards are projected to ship in November/December of 2012Now: bASIC Mining boards are projected to ship in December of 2012New: 54Gh/s is the gauranteed minimal hashing speed - we were very conservative here and it's likely that our software development team will be able to increase the mining speed.New: Energy efficiency information is coming soon. Heh  I bet he meant EDT. Given the context, I think he meant pre-orders stop at the end of Oct 22, not beginning, so 26 hours from now. I do wish people would avoid vague phrases like "midnight 10/22".Specs should be released in just 2 hours though.  ROFL!No offence meant toward ngzhang and crew. It's just that I've done business with other Chinese who act like it's totally normal to recycle old computer parts and sell them as "new" as long as they're cleaned up enough to look new, and sometimes even if obviously used. I have a feeling that's quite common over there. I saw mining with GPUs as a safer bet than buying and holding bitcoins, even if it often didn't make much more profit than holding bitcoins. Because even during the crash from $32 to $2, difficulty dropped so I was able to profitably mine most of the time, and for a short time when I couldn't, I simply shut off the GPUs and didn't lose. And if the price had kept plummeting, I'd have sold the GPUs to gamers without losing nearly as much as an investment in the currency would have. In other words, while the price was going up, mining was profitable, and while the price was going down, mining was either profitable or neutral.Of course ASICs will change that, and miners will be more exposed to the risk of currency failure. Currently, it seems network hashrate stabilizes around 2 TH per $1 market price, for example currently 22 TH and $12/BTC. When the market was around $5 for a while, hashrate stabilized around 12 TH. After the new hardware is out in mass and the block reward is halved, I expect the new normal to be 40 TH per $1 market price. At $12, that's ~500 TH. If the market goes up to $20, expect hashing to increase to ~800 TH within a couple months. Hashing increases do seem to lag price increases though, so while the market is going up, mining is more profitable (if you don't compare to the profit of simply buying and holding the currency). I think the X6500 is the most power efficient miner on the market today, at 16.4W for 400 MH/s. But when the block reward is 25 BTC and the network hashrate is 500 TH, which may happen by the end of this year, you'll need to be paying less than $0.09/kwh to break even. I'm assuming $12/BTC. And even if your power is free, you'll be making a piddly $1/month. Is it worth the time to keep it running? And what's the value of a mining device that makes you $1/month? $10? Maybe $20? The device may be worth more for scrap or recycling at that point. I believe most rational GPU and FPGA owners will quit by then. Why are you guys still wildly guessing? Josh already said indirectly that they'd sold ~200 TH as of a few days ago. And if anything, I'd expect him to understate that figure, as a higher number discourages additional sales. I believe that by the end of the year, the network will be composed 90% of ASICs. That's a good point also. But if the next generation of hardware (after the upcoming ASICs) is 10x better in terms of $/GH (i.e. 500 GH for $1000), even the first-gen BFL SC line will soon become unprofitable at average power cost. BFL can probably turn a profit selling a 500 GH unit for $1000 with even the first-gen BFL SC chips, now that NRE is covered. But obviously it can't obsolete itself, so a new chip will need to be made on a smaller process node with much less power draw, for example moving from 90nm to 45nm when 45nm is affordable. Keep in mind that even if a 54 GH bASIC uses 150W (2.5x) and a 60 GH BFL Single uses 60W, they're competitive for the first year of operation (assuming $0.12/kwh), regardless of the difficulty factor:bASIC: $1099.99 + $157.68, $23.29/GHBFL: $1333.00 + $63.07, $23.27/GHAnd surely both will be obsolete within a year, so don't tell me about how many pennies you'll save after the first year. And if it turns out the bASIC will use 250W, CablePair can simply lower the price by 10% or overclock to 60 GH to regain competitiveness.The important factors to be considered when investing in ASICs is price per GH and delivery speed. The big question one should ask right now, is will a new BFL order be delivered before or after a new bASIC order, as that will affect the bottom line far far more than power cost. We have some estimates when each will ship the earliest orders, but in BFL's case especially, the delivery date of new orders is a wild guess. The sooner BFL figures out and publishes estimates of when they'll catch up with all pre-orders, the more sales they'll take from bASIC.  Yeah, but uncut. (Is this the right forum section?)With PayPal, one can login and easily create any arbitrary invoice and have it emailed to a customer. One doesn't need to make a webpage to do so. Does BitPay offer the same convenience? I understand it may be a bit tricky because the 15 min countdown needs to be initiated only when the customer clicks a link in the email, not when the merchant creates the invoice.I ask about this because it seems BFL is not going to accept bitcoins for upgrading orders from Jalapenos to Little Singles; they seem to only want to send PayPal invoices. I realize they might not want to bother adding a webpage to handle the various combinations (1 Jally to 1 LS, 3 Jally to 1 LS, 5 Jally to 2 LS, etc). So I'm hoping BitPay does, or can, offer the same convenience PayPal offers to merchants in this situation. Don't forget BFL will probably ship months before Avalon does. That makes a huge difference. As for power consumption, if that is important to you, consider that even a single BFL unit can be run by a computer that uses less than 50W, so 110W total, still far better than the (conservative) estimate of the Avalon.That said, I still think buying an Avalon is a good hedge against failure of BFL and BTCFPGA to deliver quickly and as advertised. If somehow Avalon manages to ship first, it won't matter how much power it uses. I have an Avalon on order for just that reason. Yifu Guo has been very helpful with my orders, and responds to emails quickly! Just want to put in a good word. I'm looking forward to receiving some of the first shipment of Avalons in a few months. Flip a coin 288 times. Will you get exactly 144 heads? Between 138 and 150 heads?Difficulty adjusts every 2016 blocks. An increase in hashing can result in more blocks per day for a short period. Josh recently said, indirectly, that they have about 200 TH of orders so far. Actually, is the size of the first batch that important? It's not like you can change whether you're in it or not, at this point. And if you didn't order in the first month, I can almost guarantee you won't get a first batch shipment.
Are you asking him to predict how quickly the next 350 units will sell? So he's going to tell us almost everything except anything that would let us guess the power draw.   Does "Size of ASIC chip on board" refer to the process node, such as 130nm or 90nm? Should they bother? They've already collected ~$4M, and will get millions more when shipments start. Maybe they feel that enough customers are sufficiently satisfied with the status quo. I doubt those green things are lights. They look like heatsink mounts to me. Dec 1 is in the week after US Thanksgiving Day also.   It's just random variance, lol.Look at a 8-hour moving average:http://bitcoin.sipa.be/speed-lin-2k.pngAnd here's a 24-hour moving average:http://bitcoin.sipa.be/speed-lin-10k.pngYou only think there's something going on because you're looking too closely. The shorter the period you average, the more you'll see the randomness.And here's a simulation of the randomness you should expect even if the hashrate were constant round the clock:http://bitcoin.sipa.be/simulation/speed-lin-10k.pngEven with a 24-hour moving average, you should expect variances +/- 20%, so if the true hashrate is 25 TH, you can expect a 24-hour moving average chart to swing around between 20 TH to 30 TH normally.Take your tinfoil hat off.   Can you give me a link to the circuit board photos? If you ship all pre-orders within a month of release, and ship all subsequent orders within a day or two, I think people will stop caring about order numbers and queues. I really hope we won't see a repeat of the FPGA era, when for over 4 months, you shipped FPGAs much slower than advertised. Only 85 TH? Link? I'd make it worth their time. It only takes a few minutes to read an email and edit a DB, assuming payment was in bitcoin so there's no concern about PayPal shipping address matching.I really think any company taking pre-orders like this, could make extra profit by facilitating a secondary market trading orders. And it would let people who missed the early ordering get in (at a premium) and let people with buyer's remorse bail out. I would be interested in such a channel. I'd certainly idle there, and maybe answer questions when I can. In the first batch, I bought one more than I wanted, for the purpose of reselling later when all 300 were sold. Now that it's unlikely anyone can buy more Avalons for $1300, is anyone interested in buying my extra one for more? I'll probably setup an auction thread, if there is enough interest, and assuming ngzhang/Yifu can change the ship address on my order to the auction winner's. So, who missed the boat and is willing to pay a premium to get a first-batch Avalon? Personally, I'm willing to invest enough in ASIC mining that I don't need to buy smaller units. But still, I can think of a couple advantages of buying two 27GH units instead of one 54GH unit:A component failure that affects the whole board will only take out half your mining.You can sell half later if you want to diversify, or just reduce your exposure to obsolescence.I'm not sure those justify spending ~10% more though. Of course if you want to invest just $630, I think the 27GH unit is a good price point. Because BFL is using a 65nm process and Tom is using 130nm? That's a 4x difference in power use right there.Actually, I'm not sure what Tom is using. Maybe I'm thinking of Avalon. Anyone know for sure? https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=15958.0 The order numbers shown in the confirmation emails are not the same as the ones shown on the website at the end of checkout. The formula appears to beemail_order_num = (site_order_num + 36) * 2 + 200000000Anyone get in before #12 (#200000096)? Maybe someday namecoin will solve stupid dns propagation issues. Should have just given preorder opportunities by lottery instead of making everyone hammer on the site hoping to get in first. nmteaco: I haven't kept up with the BitFloor news lately, but I heard they were considering allowing withdrawal of USD, since only BTC was stolen. Was most of your money there in USD? I'm not sure if you meant you hadn't sold the BTC from recent sales yet, or hadn't withdrawn the USD yet.
That didn't seem to work for me. It seemed to download the chain from the network anyway, appending it to the blk000x.dat files. At least by speed and filesize it appeared that way. I've been told the most recent bitcoin source (not 0.6.3) has a feature to import blk000x.dat files and build the index. Received:6/25/2012     2     8/20/2012     56     Keefe I just got the shipping notification from BFL for the 2 singles ordered 6/25. I'll probably receive them 8/20 (56 days). They're finally beginning to catch up, slightly! Received:5/30/2012     5     8/04/2012     66     Keefe I just got the shipping notification from BFL for the 5 singles ordered 5/30. I'll probably receive them 8/4 (66 days) or 8/6 (68 days). I recently bought a few BFL Singles from Buckwheet. He packed them well and shipped them quickly. We used escrow. I would trade again. That's a shame. An order that old can be sold for a nice premium to someone wanting to jump in the middle of the line. I was buying orders a couple weeks ago, but have enough already. But I've seen people offer as much as $800 each. Let's just go with sadpandatech's suggestion and put Dalkore at the end of the list as of now. You don't need to do anything Gladamas. Gladamas was supposed to send it to Dalkore, not phantitox. 1BZy1xxwcxQyRZErcYUFke72TSU7cV5PtfEDIT: Received, and sent to Otoh (1G5apmPvo2iTtmkNWAHTCET7Y842Ufijs8) +1Same here. Ordered 5 Singles on May 30.Ordered 2 Singles on Jun 25. I'm betting on BFL selling fewer FPGA's since the ASIC announcement, and catching up with the old orders, resulting in current orders for FPGA Singles being shipped much sooner than in the past.I'm willing to give you $725 each for 2 of yours, plus shipping, as long as you're shipping from the USA. Even if as much as 100 TH of new hardware is delivered all at once on release day, anyone able to immediately use the new hardware will recover about 25% of their investment in the first 2 days (if starting right after a difficulty adjustment).If software isn't ready and tested in advance, it will be a mad scramble to figure it out as the first units arrive, and minutes will be significant. Please arrange for at least one mining program to be tested in advance and ready to be used the moment deliveries occur. +1 bitcoindaddyBought a BFL FPGA Single from him. I paid BTC up front. He packed it well and shipped promptly and kept in good communication. I received and tested it earlier today. Everything is great so far! No, don't cancel! I'll buy it from you at a premium, up to $126 more than you paid them:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=90190.0 Bump for rewrite and price increase. Anyone want to bail out of their old BFL orders?Anyone want to sell their FPGA Singles to fund new SC orders? https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=90320.msg994183#msg994183 It shouldn't cost more than $25 to reship 4 Singles together, nor take more than a few days within the USA (I am, are you?). I'm still interested, if you decide to go that route.
I'm replacing some of my old GPU rigs with BFL FPGA Singles to cut my power bill, since I have to pay about $0.31/kwh here.I'll pay up to $725 each, depending on how quickly I can get them in hand. I prefer to pay in BTC, but can use almost any other method you prefer.If you have one or more in hand already and want to sell them (to fund a new ASIC pre-order?), I will pay $725 (including shipping) minus $3 per day in transit to me in California USA. For example, if you ship it right away via USPS Priority and I receive it 2 days later, I will pay $719. If you trade them to BFL for a discount on the ASIC's, you'll only get $599 credit and you'll have to pay to ship to them, so sell them to me now while they're still worth a premium!If you have ordered one or more FPGA Singles from BFL but have not received them yet (and you don't want to continue waiting an unknown amount of time), I'm still interested. When you receive it, you can reship it to me. Or if you didn't pay by PayPal, BFL can change the shipping address to mine, saving you shipping costs. I will give you two options for pricing them:1. I pay based on the day I receive it using the formula above.2. Or I pay $625 plus $3 per day since you paid BFL, up to $725. The order must be at least 1 week old already. For example, if you ordered the FPGA from BFL and paid them 3 weeks ago, I'll give you $688.You must choose up front which way you want to do it.Or make me a good offer and I'll consider.I have been involved in bitcoin for almost 2 years, and have a very good reputation at bitcoin-otc.com. I will sign a contract with my GPG key registered there when we make a deal. So the trade should go very smoothly. Will you accept $2700 for the 4 FPGA Singles? 320 for the 3 incoming 470 for the 4 456 for the 4 on hand. -OR- 210 for the other 2 incoming. I concede. But let me know if it doesn't work out. 448 440 BTC for the 4 in hand. 240 BTC for both $1375 for two (still $75 above high full-lot bid). I'm in California. I bid 106 BTC. I offer $1350 for 2 of them, plus shipping. That's $75 above your current best bid. Jun 23 5:08pm PT, 1700, N, 0, 2, -, -, KeefeJun 23 10:06pm PT, 1846, N, 1, 0, -, -, KeefeTo be shipped to California USA, unless they'll let me fly out there and pickup the moment they're available. #1700: Jun 24 00:08 UTC, 2 SC Singles, no trade-in BFL: Are you willing to commit to a cap on SC hardware shipped per day or week, measured in TH/s?For example, if you can assure us that no more than 30 TH/s will ship per week, the early buyers can be sure to recover their investment in a reasonable time before the mining difficulty equalizes at 20x what it is now. 30 TH/s would be 30 mini-rigs or 750 singles or 8600 jalapenos per week. Can you give us some idea of whether you'll be pushing out that many per week? Much less? Much more?I think a major factor holding back some of your potential customers is the concern that they're investing alot of money into hardware that has no value outside of bitcoin mining, and once you've shipped about 200 TH/s of hardware, the difficulty factor will very soon put us back where we're at now in terms of ROI but without the backup plan of selling GPU's to gamers. Also, at that point, you will need to start cutting the price to keep sales flowing, which will kill anyone who couldn't mine enough bitcoins during the transition to cover most of their investment.So, how much TH/s of hardware do you think you'll be able to assemble and ship per week once shipments start? I also must wait for the ram-reduction overhaul before I can enjoy Armory, as I still use WinXP 32bit. Once I get my hands on a fully functional (not just testnet) Armory, I'll probably be impressed enough to donate.   Their latest statement said they'll ship today... Check out the fix here:https://github.com/m0mchil/poclbm/commit/3c4bf83c9fe8602c687afcd82d556cf58af4fbba Check out the fix here:https://github.com/m0mchil/poclbm/commit/3c4bf83c9fe8602c687afcd82d556cf58af4fbba Check out the fix here:https://github.com/m0mchil/poclbm/commit/3c4bf83c9fe8602c687afcd82d556cf58af4fbba
$100B transferred by PayPal in one year? What's special about a year? You can't compare total value of bitcoins to an amount of money flow in PayPal over an arbitrarily chosen time period. Maybe he wants to withdraw some of the profit to his wallet outside Bitcoinica. As I understand it, when a Bitcoinica customer goes long more than that customer has USD balance for, or goes short more than he has BTC balance for, he is effectively borrowing from the balances of other Bitcoinica customers to do so. That's what Bitcoinica is all about: pooling resources of varied customers to facilitate trading beyond their means. Of course this requires that either some customer balances aren't being fully used, or some of their positions are in the opposite direction of others'.This means when Bitcoinica customers are predominately long, you may not be able to withdraw USD or go long or cover shorts because others have borrowed your USD. Vice versa for withdrawing BTC, going short, covering longs, when most are short.Am I on track zhoutong? Do you have many completed or almost completed Rev A units that you'd consider selling with a drastically reduced clock to keep the heat and power draw within spec, with a deep discount to correspond with the low hashrate? I wonder if you might have boards that are now otherwise useless because of the discovery of higher power draw than expected. With $599, $3.10/BTC, $0.115/KWh, 830 MH/s, 80 W, and current difficulty (1155038), it will take 9.75 months to pay off an investment in BitForce Singles. I want a warranty that assures me the hardware will last at least that long.BFL: Please consider offering a 1 year warranty, perhaps for a small additional fee if you must. Oops, I meant W/GH, not W/MH. Keep in mind that 40W more power only costs you about $40 per year more in electricity at typical US rates. (using 11.4c/KWh to make the numbers come out easy)I like to use 1 year for projecting whether such a mining device is worth investing in. So go ahead and give me a device that uses 60W instead of 20W, discount the purchase price by $40, and I'm happy. A year from now, surely I'll either be out of bitcoin mining altogether, or will have upgraded to much better hardware anyway.At this point, I mostly just care about $/MH. I can build GPU rigs at about $0.60/MH, and they have more certain future resale value. I'm willing to pay up to $0.75/MH for FPGA-based miners, because going from 400W/GH to 60W/GH is a major savings in power cost, and it's much easier to deal with the heat. At $2.50/BTC at current mining difficulty at 11.4c/KWh, a $0.75/MH 60W/GH rig recoups its cost in 11.5 months.In my opinion, ROI is becoming the primary factor in bitcoin mining, not so much W/GH. I think few serious investors want to pour money into mining rigs without a good chance of getting it back in a year. Got it. My funds have been restored to my account on the new server and I put my orders back up. Thanks I sent an email to sales@bitcoin2cash.com 21 hours ago, requesting that my account be restored on the new server. No reply yet... I'm not quitting yet. But below $5.55/BTC, I'll have to idle my miners, and buy on the market instead if I want to continue increasing my holdings. Although I haven't verified the details, I want to say that yes I was in the channel while this was going on, and have no reason to doubt the above account. I am unable to withdraw BTC from bitcoin2cash.com.But the order matching problem was probably just a rounding bug. I had no problem selling 4 BTC at $12.99 (to ensure overlap with the bid at $13.00). Funny I run across this thread right now...I'm in the USA and do business with someone in China regularly. But it's annoying paying fees to banks for moving money back and forth. He recently got into bitcoin mining and will be selling at least some of it, so paying me with bitcoins instead of trying to sell bitcoins locally will be win-win! It's the same situation in the other direction as well. When you're back on IRC, pm me there and be patient. I'm willing to trade my BTC for your SLL. You guys are lucky. I've been trying for 3 hours to just get the first page to load! My first attempt to load the page a few hours ago did work, but after trying to submit the first form, it went AWOL and never acknowledged the submission, and I got no email. Since then, the page has never loaded despite many attempts and much patience. It amuses me that some people have been wanting to invest in bitcoins for weeks, but haven't been willing to pay even 1% to get money into the most liquid exchange. Meanwhile the price has soared. What's 1% compared to 1460% gain in just about 5 weeks? Are you selling BTC and accepting PayPal? Unfortunately some shortcomings currently deter me from setting up a nice realtime graphical interface for that. For example, the feed doesn't provide the current order book upon connection start, and pulling that from another page would be quite tough to sync properly. I've also heard the feed omits some data sometimes, though I haven't verified that. I was going to make a nice interface for the feed as well, but I'm not going to bother until the problems are resolved:Rounding issuesNo perfect way to start out in-syncAlleged missing data and dark pool inconsistencies Are you able to pay with a better method than PayPal? Do you have a bank account in the USA? Is it Wells Fargo, Chase, ING Direct, or any on the Popmoney list?:https://www.popmoney.com/popapp/faces/popmoney/common/about.jsp?name=partners
Yes Withdrawal to LR is usually instant, though sometimes LR doesn't update your account for a little while. If it has been over an hour, contact MtGox by email. I can give you PayPal USD for your MtGox USD. You can check my reputation at bitcoin-otc.com. What is MSP and DEN? How do you want to receive the cash? In person, by bank transfer, or Western Union or similar? It costs me over 20% to cash out of PSC, but if you want to trade, I'll be back in about 10 hours and we'll make a deal. Send me a private message. If you and EP don't work out a deal, and if you bank at Wells Fargo, Chase, or any on the Popmoney list, contact me.https://www.popmoney.com/popapp/faces/popmoney/common/about.jsp?name=partners Welcome back. I hope you're feeling alright now. I can give you PayPal for your bitcoins, using the best bid at MtGox as a reference and subtracting 1.5%. You don't want to accept PayPal payments from anyone you don't trust, because someone sending PayPal can later claim their account was used without their authorization and get the payment reversed. But you can check my reputation at bitcoin-otc.com. Or sell to Coincard; they're trusted by the community. You don't need Liberty Reserve to use MtGox. But you'll want some other way to get USD or CAD after selling your BTC there, so you'll need someone who will buy MTGUSD (USD transferred within MtGox) from you. You'll just want to find someone else in Canada who wants to get CAD into MtGox to buy BTC with. Unless it's a display rounding issue, I don't know why those orders haven't been matched yet. It does seem you should email them.I haven't noticed. Hopefully I notice when it goes live, as I am interested in using this service. When order matching occurs (every 5 minutes at this exchange, usually instant at others), a larger order at the same price as an opposite smaller order will be partially filled, regardless of whether the larger order is a bid or an ask. Only 1:1? Does that mean you want to buy 200 BTC for only $200? They're worth much much more than that now.If you're willing to buy BTC at 1.5% over the best ask at MtGox of comparable size, let me know and we'll trade. I just posted an ask for 145 BTC at $1.73, and I'll soon increase that quantity. s/One/Once/200 or 2000?And you should urge people to not send to that address from any e-wallets since they usually won't credit the account holder if coins are returned. Donations to that address should only be sent from one's own wallet on their computer. Most 5770's have no problem overclocking to 960mhz. I get 182 mhash/s with a 5770 at 960mhz running poclbm. I hear phoenix is 5-10% faster, but I haven't tried it yet.I'm not in the market to buy, but just wanted to share the info. A 5770 is a very good and efficient choice for a starting miner that doesn't want to invest in the much more expensive 5970's. I am definitely interested in answers to all those questions from each of the exchanges. I could probably answer half of them for MtGox from my experiences, but it would be best if MagicalTux could give authoritative answers. I look forward to answers from the other exchanges as well. CoinPal is most certainly legit and trusted by many. If there's a technical problem, just give mndrix time to fix it. If your bank offers Popmoney service, that's definitely the way to go. It's usually free, requires minimal if any setup since it's through your bank, and the recipient can see that the funds are good immediately. Is your bank on this list?:https://www.popmoney.com/popapp/faces/popmoney/common/about.jsp?name=partners This reminds me somewhat of experts-exchange.com, where people ask tech questions and offer points (like an in-house currency) for accepted answers. Points received by answering questions can then be offered to others when you ask a question.Some of the concepts there might be of interest to you.
I can accept Amazon Payments, matching Coinpal's price and fee.Meet me on irc at #bitcoin-otc (freenode). Whenever I'm available at all, I'm available there. I can accept Amazon Payments, matching Coinpal's price and fee.Meet me on irc at #bitcoin-otc (freenode). Whenever I'm available at all, I'm available there. I can sell you 500 BTC for some sort of bank transfer (including ACH). Meet me on irc at #bitcoin-otc (freenode). Whenever I'm available at all, I'm available there. I think the inability to deposit and withdraw USD is a critical limitation to usability. It effectively limits a trader to only shorting BTC. I don't believe you can have an effective exchange with only short speculators. You need long speculators as well, and that's currently not possible. If you enable USD transfers between accounts, and encourage people to trade BE-USD for other USD externally (PayPal, cash, wire, whatever), you can partially mitigate the problem. Yes, USD can be transferred between MtGox accounts. The link is not shown in the site's menu unless you have selected Display Merchant Services in your account settings (click your username up top). I can buy your bitcoins as well. I can give you Payapl, Dwolla, Popmoney, or others.http://bitcoin-otc.com/viewratingdetail.php?nick=Keefe It appears that USD in your exchange cannot be withdrawn, but can only be traded back to BTC. Am I missing something?If it's as it appears, USD there (I'll call it BE-USD) is an artificially created currency with no relation to actual USD except psychological. Also, where did the BE-USD initially come from? How did the first trader buy BE-USD with BTC, if USD can't be deposited to the exchange? I look forward to a feed of bids and asks, so I can restore newsham's page to it's former glory. I don't need the whole order book to be sent every time there's a change; just a stream of updates would be good. For example:add 1001 bid 23.45 1.043add 1002 ask 34.56 1.07remove 1001fill 1002 14.56fill 1002 20.00... I recently did business with nanaimogold, so I'm sure if you're patient he will reply to email within a couple days max. I hadn't heard of coffee4bitcoin though. I'm not really in the market to buy silver for my collection, but if you offer me any 90%+ silver at a bargain price of 35 USD per troy oz, I will buy. I would use the best ask price at MtGox to value the BTC, which is about $1.05 at the moment, so I would give you 25.78 BTC per silver dollar. I see that's much less than you're asking though. Not quite. Morgan and Peace silver dollars contain 0.77345 troy oz of silver each. Uncirculated, the coins weigh 26.73 grams (0.85939 troy oz) of which 90% is silver.So 50 BTC per coin calculates to 64.65 BTC per troy oz of silver. It still seems the email stuff is broken. I can't invite anyone because the site isn't emailing the invitee, and I can't reset the password on a test account because it won't email me. Yep, looks like it's fixed again for the moment. I can buy your BTC at 1.5% below the best MtGox bid, or can buy your MtGox USD (transfer between MtGox accounts) less 1% (I'd give you $99 for $100). I can pay with LR, Dwolla, Popmoney, PayPal, and many other methods. You can check my reputation at bitcoin-otc.com.I check this forum a few times a day. You can reach me faster on IRC (Freenode #bitcoin-otc). Don't use spinrite, or any software, if you suspect possible partial failure of circuitry or heads. Software could cause more damage. Spinrite is great for recovering data from weak sectors when everything else is fine.For professional data recovery, I recommend Gillware. They will evaluate your drive for free, and even go as far as recovering your data and showing you what they found, before asking for payment. They charged me about $700 to recover a 250gb laptop drive. As far as I know, the heads failed. All data was intact. Have you received the deposit yet, or has it been broken for 6 days now? FYI: The current dark-only or dark+normal minimum is $1000, not 1000 BTC, for both buying and selling. I was only the 6th person after nanotube to join the bitcoin-otc WoT. There are now 222 members. So we've both had about 5 months to do lots of trading with many others. Are you saying that all a customer has to do is call their bank and say they didn't authorize it, and the bank takes the money back from the merchant without question?Does that apply only to merchant-initiated ACH? What about if the customer initiates the ACH from their bank's website? Most banks offer some sort of bill-pay service, which is sometimes processed electronically; some banks offer outgoing ACH directly; many others offer it through a service such as CashEdge's Popmoney. That's an interesting concept. I hadn't heard of iceberg orders before. It seems like the functionality is exactly like a bot with no latency. I see it as a way to bring such bot functionality to everyone, possibly for a higher fee, instead of only to those skilled at coding and with access to a reliable server.I'm not sure it will satisfy all current dark+normal order users though, since they could miss out on large market orders that are placed in one piece. But that's the cost of hiding one's size. It seems fair enough.
I could probably sell you 10k, over a week's time. Of course I'd also need relatively irreversible payment.  I bank at Wells Fargo and am satisfied with them. They seem to have branches in most states:https://www.wellsfargo.com/locator/Including:MississippiMontanaNorth DakotaSouth DakotaFunds can be transferred online between any two Wells Fargo accounts for free, under $1000/day. Funds received that way are available immediately. Check out nanaimogold.com and bitcoin2cc.com as well. You can find many traders at bitcoin-otc.com (#bitcoin-otc on Freenode). You do need to be careful about receiving PayPal though. It's certainly the most convenient method for both sides of a trade, but you want to be sure you can trust the sender to not use a stolen account or file a chargeback claiming they didn't authorize the payment. Bitcoin-otc has a "Web of Trust" where you can see who trusts who.I can also buy your BTC with PayPal, or you can sell them at MtGox and sell me the MtGox USD (you'd transfer the USD from your account there to mine) for PayPal. I have a good reputation at bitcoin-otc. Gusti is someone I trust as well. I apologize. I didn't catch that when you said buy, you were actually referring to selling BTC and buying USD. Given that at MtGox the term Buy refers to buying BTC, it might be best to follow that convention so as to not confuse someone possibly less experienced with currency trading. FWIW, I think you have bids and asks confused. EDIT: My mistake. I didn't catch that you were talking about buying USD and *selling* BTC.Current bids on the order book (Depth of Market) represent other buyers waiting for sellers, and asks represent sellers waiting for buyers. When you want to buy immediately, you clear/fill asks, driving up the best/lowest ask. When you want to sell immediately, you clear/fill bids, driving down the best/highest bid.Dark-only orders don't directly affect the visible bids or asks, nor any normal orders.Dark+normal bids support (hold up) the price invisibly, absorbing immediate sells without showing that they are going to do so, nor how strongly. When they are filled partially or fully, the trades do show in the trade feeds (such as the #bitcoin-market irc channel), so one can see the effect of their existence. Dark+normal asks provide invisible resistance (holding the price down) in a similar manner. If I do happen to come across anyone with PaySafeCards, I'll send them your way. It seems pretty rare though. +1 zanikAlthough he is new to this community, I bought a $60 game online for him in exchange for bitcoins, in advance of payment to test his honesty. He paid promptly. Thanks for the pleasant trade! I can't decide between leaving it as is, and removing dark+normal. There have been times I've been frustrated by the fact the market looks thinner than it may actually be, but I realize that serious traders are going to write a bot to substitute for the dark+normal functionality if removed. Raising the fee for dark+normal is an interesting idea, but again, a serious trader may write a bot to save money. I've used dark+normal orders to beat the annoying just-.000001-better bots, so I can see the usefulness also.I have no problem at all with dark-only orders, as that's just like a separate exchange, just built on MtGox infrastructure and trust. How about a discount offer to mail up to $100 (and only round dollars) within the USA for $2 with a one week delay? It should only cost $0.50 for a 1oz US stamp, envelope, and wrapping paper, and no more than 5 minutes of your time to pick bills, fold in paper, put in envelope, and write the address, assuming you go by a mailbox at least once a week anyway. Since you've been doing this for a year, don't you already have a good feel for what's involved and what's a reasonable price? I'd be happy to help. Just 1 BTC for my time to order and reship a package of anything, plus all costs of course. Postage from me (California USA) to Sweden probably starts around 2 BTC for the lightest package. Let me know the details and I'll see what I can do. I just gave the auction's high bid a nice boost! I did receive the promotional 5 USD and 5 BTC. Thanks! I don't know how you can get the original account if something is random, but these work consistently for me for my Google account:http://openid-provider.appspot.com/<GoogleUsername>https://www.google.com/accounts/o8/id Apparently he's referring to Morpheus's limit and fee for PayPal purchases. If you're buying more than $500, you really should look at other methods besides PayPal. Even the most expensive funding method, wire transfer, becomes cheaper than that above $500. Just contact MtGox and ask for the information to do an ACH transfer as that is usually free. LR is usually an immediate way to get USD into MtGox (if you have USD in LR already of course), so my report of nothing in 10 minutes was simply to point out that it's not always working automatically, because of LR server problems. I wasn't meaning to seem impatient. In fact, I only did that deposit as a test to confirm for doood, so I don't care if it takes days. But hopefully LR will get back fully on their feet so LR can once again be an immediate deposit method to MtGox. As I understand it, MtGox's system only checks deposits once, and if LR's system doesn't respond to that, the transfer remains in limbo until MtGox is alerted to the missing credit. You should email the transaction details from your LR account, for manual review, if it's not automatically processed quickly. It's slower than expected for me also. I just deposited $10 from LR to MtGox 10 minutes ago, and it's not showing yet. Maybe it has something to do with the recent major downtime LR had. One is using http://openid-provider.appspot.com/<GoogleUsername>The other is using https://www.google.com/accounts/o8/id
Bitcoin2cash:Please credit my account 430572 with $5 and 5 BTC, per the promo, if you haven't already done so for one of my two accounts. Oh wow, I'd have never expected that using a different url for the same ID (my Google account) would be treated as different ID's on your site. Sure enough, I tried logging in with the previous url and found my 5 BTC. Maybe I just don't understand the technical details of OpenID, but I imagine this could cause confusion for others also. Any way to fix this?So, I have two accounts at B2C now: 430572 with 5 BTC and 155466 with 1 BTC. I sent 5 BTC to 1KNYUS8nExT9nm6yEmsUAv1ihr3MrFq4Kx, which I'm sure I copied from your site after selecting Deposit from the drop-down.http://blockexplorer.com/address/1KNYUS8nExT9nm6yEmsUAv1ihr3MrFq4KxI just now sent 1 BTC more to the address it's currently giving me, 1AJ2v6cRtewhGwR6MfNNDhSjGQc45eZhbv, as a test. I guess it changes the address each time a deposit is received? Except my account on your site didn't get credited for the 5 BTC.EDIT: The 1 BTC sent to 1AJ2v6cRtewhGwR6MfNNDhSjGQc45eZhbv went through quickly, and it's still showing the same address for additional deposits. Please check your wallet, as I'm sure I got the first address (1KNYUS8nExT9nm6yEmsUAv1ihr3MrFq4Kx) from your site as well.EDIT: My mistake. I didn't realize I had inadvertently created two accounts and I was looking for the 5 BTC in the wrong one. Everything is working smoothly so far! One hour and 10 confirms now, still nothing. Not cool. Account #155466EDIT: My mistake. I didn't realize I had inadvertently created two accounts and I was looking for the 5 BTC in the wrong one. Everything is working smoothly so far! I sent 5 BTC to my new account at B2C 26 minutes ago, and it has 2 confirms, yet doesn't show in my balance on the site. How many confirms do you require?EDIT: My mistake. I didn't realize I had inadvertently created two accounts and I was looking for the 5 BTC in the wrong one. Everything is working smoothly so far! For anyone else trying to use a gmail account as an OpenID, put this in the login field: https://www.google.com/accounts/o8/idJust like that, without your gmail name. The next screen asks for your gmail name and password if you're not already logged into Google. Gusti can be trusted. And $0.70 is a good price. Personally, I won't accept PayPal from anyone period, but if I did, I would sell BTC to gusti. Mndrix runs a very good and trustworthy operation, but if you want to avoid the high fees and low limits necessitated by the risk of PayPal fraud, consider these other options that I accept:Bank transfer via PopMoney: usually free and almost immediate, offered by many major US banks: https://www.popmoney.com/popapp/faces/popmoney/common/about.jsp?name=partnersBank transfer via ACH: usually free, but few banks offer it except for sending to your own accountsCash deposit in person to any branch of the seller's bank: free except your time to get to the bank, usually clears the same or next dayOnline transfer between accounts at the same bank: usually free and instantDwolla: $0.25 per transfer, takes a few days to setupGreen Dot MoneyPak: can be bought with cash at many retailers, costs about $5, seller can accept and verify immediatelyOthers I haven't thought ofIf you're interested in buying from me, the quickest way to reach me is in IRC (freenode.net, #bitcoin-otc). But I also check the forum a couple times a day. Their bitcoin stuff is broken yet again. You'll have to wait until Davout gets around to fixing it again. Could be a week from now, or could be as quickly as a day like last time. I'll sell either MtGox USD, or BTC, for pretty much anything *except* PayPal. Few people want to deal with the PayPal fraud, so you'll get a much better deal if you're willing to offer "real" money, such as:Bank transfer via PopMoney: usually free and almost immediate, offered by many major US banks: https://www.popmoney.com/popapp/faces/popmoney/common/about.jsp?name=partnersBank transfer via ACH: usually free, but few banks offer it except for sending to your own accountsCash deposit in person to any branch of the seller's bank: free except your time to get to the bank, usually clears the same or next dayOnline transfer between accounts at the same bank: usually free and instantDwolla: $0.25 per transfer, takes a few days to setupGreen Dot MoneyPak: can be bought with cash at many retailers, costs about $5, seller can accept and verify immediatelyOthers I haven't thought ofIf you're interested in buying from me, the quickest way to reach me is in IRC (freenode.net, #bitcoin-otc). But I also check the forum a couple times a day. WU = Western UnionTheir fee to transfer from California USA to Uruguay is 5%. I don't know if you got my email, since you didn't reply.I can sell you Pecunix at 1:1 (spot value of the gold) if you pay with MoneyPak, and you pay the 0.5% Pecunix transfer fee. Usually it will cost you around 5% to buy Pecunix, so I'm offering you a very good deal. It just so happens I have Pecunix I want to sell, and that will likely cost me around 3%, so our trade will be win-win.I can also sell you Liberty Reserve $ for a 0.5% fee, and you pay the 1% LR transfer fee. I have plenty of LR$ also.And I can sell you BTC or MTG$ also. I don't know if you're looking for LR$ only as an intermediate toward buying BTC.The fastest and most reliable way to contact me is in IRC (freenode #bitcoin-otc) but I do check the forum message box at least once a day. I'll give you $153 for your 200 BTC. I can pay by bank transfer (ACH through PopMoney) or PayPal. I can sell you BTC for MoneyPak at $0.813/BTC. I have a good reputation at bitcoin-otc.com. Deal? Davout just replied to my email (sent to support@bitcoin-central.net) saying he fixed it again (restarted the bitcoin daemon I suppose). He'll upgrade the bitcoin daemon for the site by the end of the week, so this shouldn't happen again.I just confirmed that bitcoin deposit, withdrawal, and address generation works again. I can pay with USD via Dwolla, US bank ACH, or PayPal. I have a good reputation at bitcoin-otc.com. I can buy your BTC at 1% below the highest sizable bid at MtGox.com. Let me know if this offer becomes interesting to you. Are any of the bitcoin operations working for you jgarzik? (deposit, withdrawal, etc) Ah, I see what you're saying about the manual withdrawal of Pecunix.But I still believe the site's bitcoin node (bitcoind?) is hung because BTC deposit, withdrawal, and address generation are all broken. But I guess that's unrelated to Pecunix withdrawal.As for getting any response from davout, I'm afraid you'll have to wait a long time, as he seems to rarely check his email. Be patient for a week. The site's bitcoin node is probably hung again. Give him a week or so and he'll eventually fix it. Would you accept 1150 USD for your 1550 BTC?
I'll give you $118 by PayPal for your 150 BTC. I have a good reputation at bitcoin-otc.com. Deal? I can also offer $95 (after fees) by PayPal for your 110 BTC. You can find me on IRC in #bitcoin-otc. Contact me on IRC in the next 15 minutes and I'll do this trade with you. How stupid does he think we are? Defending against PayPal fraud is a common topic among the bitcoin community. I think we're the wrong people to try selling a stolen PayPal account to. That's a good idea. I just might do something similar someday, since the stuff I sell has high profit margins. I can handle a 50% loss vs my usual sales, if it brings in new customers. I think you might have it backward. If you want to force the price up, you need a huge amount of $, not BTC. Getting a bunch of people to sell at no less than $2/BTC is useless if there's even just one guy with 10k BTC offering to sell at $1. There's simply not enough impatient demand for BTC yet. I think there is patient demand, and they know they can bid low and eventually get what they want. And there's enough impatient supply to do that for them, since many miners are concerned about recouping hardware investments. Even if you could round up 100 big sellers and band together at $2/pc, there will still be plenty of supply that won't join you. 0.10 BTC sent to 15p9saNu2Y7y7zuSknbsCFWMSEdTLRDg29. 0.10 BTC sent to 1L1Kh8zYBFnKRYog6LeDjRcB4wZex8oWBv. Improved:A paratrooper was doing his first jump. Because he was afraid his teammates would not find his landing place, he wrapped his body in lots of light bulbs. He eventually landed in a farmer's yard, where there was a woman. He asked the woman, "Where is here?" The frightened old woman saw him in the corner of the yard, and said "Earth."(She must have thought he was an alien because of the lights!)0.10 BTC sent to 1CbL5fZnV9gEtJBj5ufEV58myHnF6no7fe. Already good english, except you should add "the" before "water."0.10 BTC sent to 15p9saNu2Y7y7zuSknbsCFWMSEdTLRDg29. Improved:One day, I said to you, "You are a pig." You said, "I am a pig? Just strange." So I began to call you "pig just strange." Finally, one day you could not help but announce loudly to everyone, "I'm not a pig! Just strange!"0.10 BTC sent to 15p9saNu2Y7y7zuSknbsCFWMSEdTLRDg29. I'll give 0.10 BTC for each one above that i liked and hadn't seen before... You might want to try their primary email address also: info@mtgox.com If it were transferred within MtGox, he'd refer to it as USD, as LR is only one of multiple means of deposit/withdrawal and storage, and wouldn't refer to it as theft from MtGox. Also, if it were an internal transfer, Jed would have simply reversed the database entry.As I interpret Jed's statement, the theft of LR from MtGox was greater than the current value of Baron's account which is at least $45000.I point this out because some may still think freezing $45000 was excessive. I say it's not, assuming there's adequate evidence that the stolen $45000+ LR was redeposited into MtGox. Isn't there too much focus on just the 9000 BTC? It seems to me the bigger issue is the suspicion that Baron is also the person who stole >$45000 from MtGox by exploiting the site's LR code. All my LRUSD did clear into my LR account.Your site says "the 24/7 bitcoin platform". Some advice to avoid similar situations in the future:1. Add to your support page on the site, saying you will respond to emails within 48 hours.2. Check email once a day. If someone reports a problem and you don't have time to fix it, you can just reply very simply "I will fix it later. Please wait." so people know you haven't abandoned the site.3. If there's a problem you won't be able to fix for a while, either add a note to the site's support page, or post on the forum, or email someone who can pass the word to the community. Thanks for the info ptmhd. I hadn't tried to translate anything from the French threads.Davout just replied to another forum topic specifically about the site problems, and he has fixed the site for now. I'm relieved to be able to withdraw at least my BTC so far...  EDIT: and my LRUSD also, so I'm ok now. Thanks davout for fixing it for now. I managed to withdraw all my BTC, and $10 of my LRUSD. My attempt to withdraw the other $424 LRUSD seems to be in limbo at the moment, but that has happened to me before from another exchange so I assume LR's system isn't always instant. I'll post back here when it clears.I'm sorry, but I can't feel comfortable leaving much money in BC anymore. I'm relieved that you did eventually come through this time, but what about next time? If the system isn't stable, maybe it's also vulnerable to hacking. I realize the code is open-source, but I'm personally not skilled enough to analyze it to satisfy my concerns. I just sent him a message through Facebook, assuming that's the same person. I'll give him a little more time before I try calling those phone numbers. I just sent him a forum message and emailed every address I know.I'm hoping someone can find him and bring this problem to his attention. Unfortunately I'm in California USA, so my options are limited. But maybe someone in France has a better chance?
Here are the dates (UTC) of the emails I've sent that have been ignored so far:3/4/2011 22:29  -  support@bitcoin-central.net3/2/2011 20:11  -  david@webflows.fr3/1/2011 06:46  -  support@bitcoin-central.net That doesn't justify keeping our money though. So something else must have happened. It appears that no withdrawal of any currency from Bitcoin-Central is possible, and davout no longer replies to emails. I and at least one other person have a significant amount of money there. Should we be worried that davout has disappeared with it, or that someone hacked his site and stole the money? I have been trying to withdraw both BTC and LRUSD since March 2, and always get an error.Does anyone know davout personally? Can anyone find him in person and ask him what's going on? Did you go to that meeting? Did you see davout? Has anyone heard from davout in the last few weeks? Convenient...  I have money there that I've been unable to withdraw for days. I understand it takes manual effort to process EUR, but LRUSD/LREUR and BTC should be no problem. It seems something is wrong on the server, preventing even LR and BTC withdrawal. If he's not going to keep the site working, he needs to shut it down and return everyone's money. Or at least let us know what he is going to do about it. Both BTC and LR withdrawal is now working just fine for me. Both processed completely right away. I'll buy your LR $ with PayPal $. Interested? The new server appears to be fully functional. You just need to add the new IP 174.121.74.59 to your hosts file until your favorite DNS provider refreshes. All is well for me now. The LRUSD withdrawal completed and is now in my LR account. And BTC withdrawal works fine.I'll remove the entry from my hosts file in a day when I'm sure all DNS servers have updated. If you're using windows, just add to your c:\windows\system32\drivers\etc\hosts   EDIT: I use Win XP. The path might be different in newer versions.174.121.74.59   mtgox.comIt should solve all access problems right away. If not, restart your web browser to clear its possible DNS cache.No need to mess with manually adding www to every url, if you use the hosts file to point to the new server.BTC withdrawal works now for me. LR withdrawal is still stuck in limbo though. Will LR and BTC withdrawal be fixed soon? Just before my post.Yes, I get that error now also. Hopefully the site will be back up at a new host soon. I just transferred $10 from my MtGox account to my LR account, and verified it right away. No problems.But I am unable to withdraw BTC from MtGox. It gives a bogus error saying Invalid Bitcoin Address. Hopefully that's just a temporary software glitch. That's bound to happen occasionally. Is it really a problem, having the password in the url when https is used? I thought that the browser checks the certificate and starts encrypting before the url is transmitted. I ask because although "8 characters, numbers and letters" isn't very strong, it would take a huge number of attempts to purely brute-force if it were random. Or is the point here that it was a single word and a couple digits, easily broken by a dictionary attack? How weak was it really?I use unique random 16-character passwords (upper, lower, and digits) most places. I assume I'm totally safe from the kind of attack that compromised cryptofo's account. cryptofo:Would you be willing to tell us the password you used, that the thief managed to guess? I assume you no longer use it anywhere. :-)mtgox:Could you tell us approximately how many login attempts were made by the thief before successfully guessing cryptofo's password? If it was less than say 10000, then we'd know it was just a really weak/guessable password.I notice that there's now a delay when logging into mtgox.com, which I think is a great way to prevent major brute-force/dictionary attacks. But I'm wondering if you've implemented any additional login protections, such as longer delays after a certain number of failed attempts from a single IP? 160 BTC 800 BTC So now the big question is: Will mtgox back MTGUSD with LRUSD 1:1 less fees? In other words, will I be able to withdraw the "USD" from my Mt Gox account into my LR account at a fixed 1:1 rate? Or will the rate be market-determined (i.e. a third tradeable currency at Mt Gox)? If the latter, and if there will never be a way to directly withdraw our existing MTGUSD except by trading to LRUSD first within Mt Gox with another Mt Gox user, then MTGUSD will become worthless. If mtgox is offering direct withdrawal of MTGUSD as LRUSD without trading first, then MTGUSD will be fine.But I am still concerned about PayPal possibly never giving back the stolen (ok, "frozen") funds. If therefore there is not enough liquid funds backing up all MTGUSD, without mtgox dipping into personal funds, there's a possibility of a "bank run" on MTGUSD. I second twobit's question. I would definitely prefer to withdraw my USD to my US bank account, preferably by ACH, or as a second-best option, by mailed check. I'm confused by mtgox's last post.The reason I do not like LiqPay is it appears that every login and many activities require me to receive a one-time password by SMS. My only cell phone charges me $0.20 for each SMS received, and Google Voice won't accept SMS from outside the US. Paying $0.20 multiple times every time I want to use LiqPay (even if just checking account balance) seems ridiculous. Is SMS really more secure than email (free)?And I do realize that many people have free SMS service, but I'm sure there are also many like myself who don't. Also, many don't have a cell phone. Unless there's a way to get around LiqPay's SMS requirement, there really needs to be another method of depositing and withdrawing from Mt Gox.
