WOW ethereum is doing really well unlike Bitcoin at the momentwill probably flip it and keep going! really amazing, sign up today  - https://legolas.exchange/ref/fpGa3 LEGOLAS EXCHANGETHE FIRST DEMONSTRABLY FAIR PREMIUM EXCHANGE.https://legolas.exchange/ref/fpGa3Legolas Exchange incorporates a decentralized ledger within its proprietary centralized platform in order to neutralize front-running and guarantee the unalterability, temporality, and transparency of the order book.Legolas Exchange's unique hybrid model and strategic partnerships provide a fair and secure trading environment in which every type of transaction, intra-chain, cross-chain, and crypto/fiat, is executable.Thus, unlike fully decentralized exchanges, Legolas can cover 100% market share with full transparency and security.CEO: https://www.linkedin.com/in/fredericmontagnon/WHITEPAPER: https://legolas.exchange/static/public/legolas-whitepaper.pdf?v=12Bitcointalk: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2383397.0 Smiley LEGOLAS EXCHANGETHE FIRST DEMONSTRABLY FAIR PREMIUM EXCHANGE.https://legolas.exchange/ref/fpGa3Legolas Exchange incorporates a decentralized ledger within its proprietary centralized platform in order to neutralize front-running and guarantee the unalterability, temporality, and transparency of the order book.Legolas Exchange's unique hybrid model and strategic partnerships provide a fair and secure trading environment in which every type of transaction, intra-chain, cross-chain, and crypto/fiat, is executable.Thus, unlike fully decentralized exchanges, Legolas can cover 100% market share with full transparency and security.CEO: https://www.linkedin.com/in/fredericmontagnon/WHITEPAPER: https://legolas.exchange/static/public/legolas-whitepaper.pdf?v=12Bitcointalk: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2383397.0  https://legolas.exchange/ref/fpGa3Core TeamThe team is composed of entrepreneurs, investors and software engineers who have worked, co-founded and exited companies together in the past.Frédéric Montagnon (CEO)An accomplished entrepreneur and investor with 20 years experience, Frédéric has founded and exited 4 companies for a total value of more than USD 400 million. He is ranked  as the 7th largest start-up investor in France (https://www.challenges.fr/start-up/start-up-les-conseils-du-top-30-des-investisseurs-francais_432943), and has been involved in the field of cryptocurrency as an investor since 2013. He is a published blockchain influencer.Julien Romanetto (COO)For 20 years Julien has been a successful entrepreneur and an investor with an eye for the technical side. He has co-founded and exited with Frédéric Montagnon Secret Media, OverBlog and Nomao for a total value of more than USD 400 million. Julien has been involved in crypto currencies and user cases for blockchain technology for the last 3 years.Ouziel Slama (CTO)Having devoted himself exclusively to the field of cryptocurrency since 2013, Ouziel was a major contributor to Counterparty and the principal software manager at Symbiont.io. He has been an advisor and blockchain developer on several successful crypto projects. An Internet entrepreneur for the past 20 years, Ouziel has been a code-lover for... forever! He has extensive expertise in time-stamping and copyright protection.Yaacov Akiba Slama (Principal Architect)Yaacov Akiba Slama is an industry expert in using free software to build fully scalable and secure systems. He has worked on almost every level of the software stack, from the linux kernel to final applications and websites. He worked at IBM on internal products, on the linux kernel, and for Mozilla. He is the co-founder and the principal architect of Wmap, an IM company, and byen.site, one of the French leaders in the sale of generic websites for small companies. He acquired his theoretical knowledge at the prestigious École Normale Supérieure in Paris and at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem.Frédéric Martin (Security Architect)Frederic is a System and Security Architect with over 12 years experience. He has tackled every aspect of public key infrastructures (encryption, digital signature, strong authentication…). As a smart card based security expert and a blockchain technology evangelist, he vigorously promotes the use of architectures that combine secure software with secure hardware on both the user side (hardware wallets, secure terminals, cryptographic tokens) as well as the server side (hardware security modules).Abdelmajid Oulfakir (Lead developer)A full stack developer with more than 15 years experience, Abdelmajid managed a team of experienced developers at Nexway Paris before going to Morocco to build the Nexway Web Agency. On top of this, he has brought his knowledge and experience to several companies to build and manage talented development teams. A cryptocurrency holder since 2013 and MtGox victim, Abdelmajid didn't think twice before joining his long-time friend Ouziel in building the biggest crypto exchange in the world.Roei Erez (Lead Mobile Developer)Roei is a software architect with over 12 years of experience. He has extensive experience managing agile teams and is a first class developer. Roei joined Codebashing as VP of Engineering in January 2017 before the company was subsequently sold in August 2017. He has also been working at Harmon.ie, where he leads several mobile projects providing cross-platform applications for the company. Roei acquired his first bitcoin in 2012 and has been a big fan of all things cryptocurrency ever since.Yohan Guez (Product Owner)Yohan developed new indicators and machine learning models to enhance Mayan Capital’s portfolio construction capabilities. Before joining Mayan, Yohan worked for the Emerging Markets trading desk at Societe Generale in Hong Kong and at BNP Paribas, where he was in charge of the implementation of stochastic models. In the course of his work, Yohan has become very interested in blockchain technology. He considers it, much like Social Media in the 2000s and Internet in the 1990s, to be the next frontier. Yohan joined the Legolas Exchange project in order to use cutting-edge technology to open new avenues for trading. Noam Cochin (Marketing Manager)Noam Cochin is a Franco-American writer and translator. After studying Linguistics and Anthropology at McGill University in Montreal and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, he moved to Geneva to teach and work as a freelance translator. After moving to Paris he began working at a music archival center as head of the digital archives. In parallel, he studied applied mathematics at the CNAM where he gained an enduring passion for cryptography and cryptocurrencies. Since 2014, he has devoted himself full-time to writing and translating and counts many prestigious publishing houses and companies among his clients.The advisory board is composed of hedge fund managers, brokerage firm founders and CEOs, as well as bank managing directors. Hey I have some vouches here : https://hackforums.net/showthread.php?tid=5773438added features: sell option - you can now set a sell option so that after you buy it sells after 20% or 100% roadmap: we're adding binance really soon and thinking about new ideas  Selling McAfee Bittrex bot- This bot allows users to automatically purchase a coin via Bittrex when the official Mcafee (@officialmcafee) account tweets about it. this is based on McAfee's tweet saying he will shill a coin everyday and the previous gains made to each coins based on that (burst + 150%, dgb + 150%, etc etc) https://twitter.com/officialmcafee/statu...8364112898PURCHASE HERE : https://selly.gg/p/483b2c93VIDEO PROOF OF PRODUCT : https://vimeo.com/248582430vouches here: https://hackforums.net/showthread.php?tid=5773438 Hey I imported like 4 addresses and like 10 working walletsI received 1 payment for one of the addresses, am I going to get paid for the rest as well? most undervalued token out there, invested heavilythis alone will make me rich  We're going to the moon boys. best concept out there, best team, small market cap, NOT EVEN LISTED ON POLO HOLY SHIT Best investment I have currentlybeen here since 2010good luck!! I've been here since 2010 and never commented but this has HUGE potential. good luck early adopters! Well, they were 0.07 cents when I joined  
