I think you're right about needing to post cash as well, cash as collateral could be converted to BTC to manage the margin account.The big reason this kind of intermediation (options or futures market) is necessary is because bitcoin right now isn't really "capital" that can be productively employed. Liquidity between BTC and EUR and USD is great, right now the best way to run a profitable BTC bank is probably to convert BTC deposits into some fiat currency, make a traditional interest bearing investment, and convert/re-pay in BTC.You might get some takers on the other side of the transaction from people running a server farm with fast computers, video cards, etc... there is some serious risk that the value of BTC could plummet; why spend a bunch of effort to develop some hot FPGA BTC mining program if the bottom could fall out of the BTC price? Better to sell your wares forward in time at a known price, just like agricultural farmers selling futures in corn. I don't think bearer bonds are illegal in the US, it's just that companies can't deduct interest paid as a business expense, so they are far less preferable than registered bonds for tax purposes. Because all transactions are public, wouldn't it be possible to have even more trust in a bitcoin bank than a "traditional" bank? You should be able to track all of the coins "deposited" to a specific address and whether those coins have been signed over to another address or not. As long as your bitcoin bank publishes all of its receiving addresses, you should be able to independently calculate the amount on reserve at the bank.There isn't anything inherently evil about fractional reserve banking, as long as it is part of the up-front contract between depositor and bank. If anything, a widget on your desktop that calculates the current reserve position of the bank might engender more trust and decrease the likelihood of a panic/run on the bank.If you knew for sure that 65% (or whatever reserve ratio is agreed upon) of coins sent to the bank had not been spent to a third party, that would be far more transparency than you currently get with any bank licensed in the US (although perhaps less trust because US banks are insured by the US gov't).Even though there is easy convertibility between BTC and USD/EUR, what's currently lacking is a futures market that would allow a bank to hedge against future fluctuations in the exchange rate. Well... a 2010 silver American Eagle is $22/$23 (today)... how much additional is shipping/insurance? I would think you'd need delivery confirmation and all of the widgets the post office can sell you because just one non-delivery without being able to post proof of sending it would be enough to spoil trust. I mean, is the goal to get a *good deal* on silver or to get more 'stuff' for sale in bitcoins? Yep, I like it. I have some 2010 1oz Silver American Eagles & 1oz 2010 Silver Canadian Maple Leafs...would 450BTC shipped CONUS seem like a fair price? Think you need online verification to prevent me from printing 2 copies of my wallet and double spending it. Who ever makes it back first to the scanner wins. Even an online database has the same problem... if I am relying on a paper token, it can always be copied and double spent.
