No power supplies. I can ship to Australia, but you will have to pay for shipping. The units are in US. Up. Up. Up. Up. Not yet. First 40 BTC takes it. Looking to sell two units as per title. The price includes shipping to US.Escrow accepted. Thanks. The units will be on Wogaut possession soon. Unfortunately, I'm no longer in position to operate them. I propose to sell the units and distribute the total amount to the shareholders, after deducting the expenses.Let me know what you think. US. 125BTC  Another price drop. 160 BTC today. Now 165 BTC. Is it because you lost 100 on just-dice this morning? Soon our shares might be worth something  OK.  July 15th 2012. I will check the order number.More details here:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=92267.0 I'm sure you would have sold it at cost  5 BTC dropped from the price. Now 170 BTC.
Bump. Any news from our "leader"? Up. Thanks for your advice. Up. The unit is hashing away and waiting for a buyer.Thanks. I sure hope your luck will last. So, are you betting investors funds? For posterity! It is 175.Thanks. Yes, still for sale. Scheduled for delivery tomorrow. Yeah, you laundered the shares with the help of your scammy IRC friends. Now go lose some more BTC with your MPOE shitty bonds. Not yet. Up. Price drop. Up. Up. Up. No news yet. I'm sure we will hear soon from wogaut.
Bump. He is going back to his roots, porn. So we might see a happy ending here! Philj will ship directly to the buyer. The escrow can be with a forum moderator.I'm asking 200 BTC, no bidding.Thanks. I'm looking to sale my BFL order as per title. The order was made by Philj and this is my share of his previous mining operation PIMP.More details here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=126599.0I accept escrow with a reputable provider, and the funds will be released to me only after you receive the unit. The unit will be shipped to the new owner by Philj. For any problem with the unit after delivery, you will have to deal direct with BFL.I will ask Philj to confirm in this thread that I own the unit.Thank you. I will post news as soon as I get them form wogaut. Hopefully we will hear soon from BFL shipping department.Thanks. Hi,He is indeed an investor in ASIC.COOP. I will post news in the ASIC.COOP thread as soon as I get them form wogaut.Thanks. My point exactly! At least we agree on something. I just like to post first, before you and the others are sent in to do your job. I mean not all of you are sock puppets, some like guruvan are doing it for pleasure  You got it, you little hawk! Wht don't you celebrate by taking a look at the financial results?https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AlhB0UHVxS67dGpBc2Rub3FtLTdHZ3ZPb09DY2pHWlE#gid=0 Still no scammer tag for the pervert? It is because you accepted my settlement and I no longer have any obligation to you. This post is a fine example why you should never invest in somebody with mental problems. Does anybody have any pictures of Hashking? Please PM if you do.Thanks Be careful, most people who are answering and giving you advice in this thread are making money when you lose money. Sure, take a seat near the carriage. This is exactly what he did. I can bet he is the biggest winner on the other side. Next 2 months there will be small winnings again followed by a bigger loss. Then rinse and repeat. Don't worry, the market will see the truth sooner or later. Look at the value of S.DICE. You will say anything without any proof, you little piece of shit. Not proud of it, but I bought back almost all confirmed shareholders.Now get back to selling guaranteed losing shares and stealing BTC, you crazy Wall Street wannabe. I'm sure that 90% of the loss is in his pocket now. The crazy guy is robbing you blind under the excuse of free market. Go on, you will lose your shirt soon.
Problem solved.Thank you. I try to withdraw my funds but I can't. I get an authentication error message every time.I opened a ticket with no answer.Please fix this problem. Welcome back Goat,How does your lawsuit against Pirate is coming along? We can surely use your experience. You people are making me sick! You have no business being here. You do not care about the people losing money, you care only about your ego, preparing your new scam or showing your superiority.If any of you would have read the original thread, you would have seen that I accept claims until March 15th. Yes, the pay back will take very long but I will try. And because I see that on this forum all of you think you represent the law, I will go consult a real layer for advice.From now on all communication will be done by email, I will no longer answer any question on this forums. I do not follow your drama, I let Deprived to get off on it. Good luck to your investors! Claims process open. 15 days left for claiming. Maybe I got the date wrong, no problem. But this doesn't change the fact, that he will sell the debt and turn a nice profit for himself. I guess time will tell! Deprived, you and Usagi need not to worry about my investors.I had a bid on Imsaguy debt which usagi ignored. After seeing my bid, Imsaguy tried to buy the debt from me at a discount.  So Usagi bought the Imsaguy debt for 0.3 Btc in total, exactly at the moment Imsaguy tries to pay his debt! https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=60117.220Great timing Usagi! Nice loss for your investors! Hi DeadTerra,You mentioned that you have recovered 430BTC, but you paid out on Bitfunder only 200BTC. Will we receive another payment soon?Thanks. Yesterday it said 24 hours from the timestamp of this post, he added 21.5 later. But it doesn't surprise me, it is Usagi after all. Imsaguy  300   0.00110000 each It is because there is no PR woman. It is the pornographer himself. Read the MP post on OTC-assets, it is the same writing style.  Just a reminder to the shareholders who did not complete the claiming process. The claiming process will end on February 15th.Thank you. The last payment from GIPPT were paid before GLBSE closed and I no longer have them. I'm sorry I did not foresee that GLBSE will close.I just ask you to wait until GIPPT confirm our holdings, then I will present you with a plan.  So will this so called exchange provide the identification needed and testify in order to sue the ghost rapist?You forget that the pornographer Mircea Popescu is friend with the rapist, check before posting. Look at his OTC ratings: http://bitcoin-otc.com/viewratingdetail.php?nick=rg  . I would say OTC is useless. Yes, I think we can say I'm in default right now and if GIPPT doesn't pay I'm broke.Deprived do you ever read the threads? Check the top post for where the BTC are, and how I plan to repay. The private investments were mainly with Hashking, so the value of them is 0 right now.Deprived this is the last question I will answer to you, as you are just a troll deprived of attention and not a shareholder.  It is true. If GIPPT receives a scammer tag because it doesn't return the BTC, I agree to receive one myself, because at that moment I will be bankrupt (edited:in default). I have nothing new to say. You can follow GIPPT thread yourself. My last answer was 10 days ago not 5 weeks as you insist.
Just to share my toughts with you. I will start repaying only when I recover my assets from GLBSE.The main assets where GIPPT bonds which where sold by respected members of the community DeadTerra and INAU. As you can see GIPPT were guaranteeed and they did not return the shares yet. I haven't seen anyone complaining and DeadTerra and INAU are not marked as scammers yet.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=96793.0Again, you are asking me to repay something it was stolen from me by GLBSE, folowing a list given to me by the thief, which is GLBSE. I never guaranteed that GLBSE will not implode or steal the assets and I believe you shared the risk with me when you agreed to use GLBSE.In conclusion, after I get the assets back I will start making payments as I recover the BTC from the issuers. If you don't know what GIPPT is ask DeadTerra and INAU or use the search function before talking. It was a guaranteed PPT investment. Mircea Popescu you are right about the porn, be warned it involves your mother. 29.12.2012 Claim process underway! Please check your email you had registered with GLBSE and follow the instructions! I'm still waiting for GLBSE to return the bond assets. I will have a time frame shortly after. +2 BitCoiner2012 for 2 successful transactions.  I did two separate transaction for Amazon GC with BitCoiner2012. He is easy to deal with and fast. Would recommend!Thanks again. I received a partial payment from James. More details here:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=102333.5 Well Guruvan, LOL as per your 16 year old writing style, just wait for the next one. Enjoy! And to paraphrase Mircea and his friends, it is OK to look at porn and even to make it, as you both do LOL you pathetic imbecile. Are you in contact with Nefario? He answers questions very fast lately. Did you receive a shareholders list from Nefario?Thanks. Guruvan, the difference is that they will get paid. However, you won't. You paid to be raped by Mircea, and it seems you enjoy it.Where are the pictures you promised? Mircea, tell us when you post them on your "different line of business" website. I know why there are not many complains in this thread. In fact nobody bought his shit, except for his former fan guruvan. Mods, what is the decision? Yes, he is very trustworthy. He is close to getting a scammer tag.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=129544.0 I'm interested.Thanks. I'm sure this theory is true. A spammer is always a scammer. To all shareholders,I have received a list from Nefario. However, I did not receive all the assets of the bond from Nefario.At the moment of closing, CIUCIU.BOND had over 500 GIPPT and 37 BTC in the GLBSE acount.This will be paid to the shareholders, when I receive them from GLBSE and the GIPPT issuers. The difference will be supported from my pocket.As mentioned earlier, I will not be able to pay any divident from the moment GLBSE closed.Regarding the payments I have to make, I'm sorry to tell you that they will be at a slow pace and it may take more than a year.I understand this will not make all of you happy, but this is all I can do in the given situation.I will go over the list and inform you if any verification steps will be needed. Thank you. Guruvan, enjoy Mircea sticking it up your ass. I TOLD YOU SO!!! To all shareholders, I received a list from GLBSE. I will go trough it and send emails to each of you, hopefully by the end of the year. I can't do it faster, I'm very busy. If I have any suspicions regarding the list, I will figure out some form of verification. Until then please discuss where can we relist ASIC.COOP.Please be patient. Guruvan, what happened, did your honeymoon with Mircea ended?
Up. It was a joke. May I ask why you Smickles push so hard for S.DICE? I see you bump the thread quite often with no important things to say. Aren't they too optimistic?   Bitcoin Oz, why don't you have a scammer tag by now? I don't remember being mad. You seem to have a problem with us asking questions and I don't know why. I already learned my lesson and I pulled all my funds out. All the best in your lending career! Just a friendly reminder Gweedo, your attitude will not bring you friends or customers. I think monitoring the listings will be GREAT. By now you have more experience than we, the stupid . I will follow your actions with interest. Hashking, just a question. Did you or any of your partners sue the Pirate? If no, what is stopping all of you? I guess a little update won't kill him.  I appreciate your insight and I envy your skills, now can you please let the owner speak for us the stupid? Thank you. So he has no law team as you implied earlier. He is not doing a thing, just help the scammers and himself. Are you to owner of the site or a PR person? Why don't you let the owner answer?And we got it that we are stupid and you are smart, but we have to live too. Thanks Sebastian. Who would have believed Mircea Popescu will do something useful for me? Multumesc Mircea! I see you don't like it when somebody is using your own methods, don't you? I look up to you as my model, Mircea. 11.52 BTC received. Scammer request canceled. Thanks for the payment. Received 11.52 BTC. No problem, better late than never. Thank you. 4 from 8 lendees have disappered with no payment whatsoever. Tell me more about his law team. Yes, I agree, nobody can prevent fraud 100%. But 40% fraud is huge. He should make public his actions, if he wants his website to have a future. You should have made a motion to have a copy of the database at all time, to protect your investment and mine. Lucky for all of you, you didn't. Wasn't this the job of the owner of the site? His verification methods are bad and he should fell bad. He lost a lender.I understand it is hard to prevent fraud, but he is not doing anything. He should make public the actions he take against scammers, but I'm afraid they amount to 0. You had voting decision and you took BTC out of GLBSE. You did not take any safeguards to not let this happen! In my eyes you are liable, your actions will cost me money and reputation.
You were partner, but now you like to call yourself shareholder. How convenient! Haven't seen any of you suing Nefario. Nobody knows his whereabouts. You all must have been the stupidest shareholders! If I remember well there is a list with all the GLBSE associates and their forum handle. I can't find it. Can somebody please point me to it?Thanks. No contact whatsoever. Scammer tag for MintCondition requested.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=128050.0 As you may know, Abcpool website had his security breached a year ago. http://www.abcpool.co/news.phpI was stolen 25BTC from my account. I was the one who pointed out the security hole to the pool owner, thus minimizing pool loss.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=33586.msg606137#msg606137Mint Condition has promised to return all the coins from the mining fees I pay in the future. He paid around 3 BTC then he stopped. I tried to contact him for more than a month, but he is not answering at all. He has to pay me at least 12 BTC in fees I paid. I've made an experiment on your site. I lent 100BTC, only to people with a score of 8. I might get back 60 at maximum. What do you do about the scammers? People just remember, this person is a SCAMMER. He was a partner in GLBSE, and they defrauded a lot of people, myself included. The only reason he hasn't got the scammer tag is because some of the mods were also involved.Is this direct enough for you, OZ scammer? Bitcoin OZ, All I can tell you is FUCK YOU, you piece of shit! You did not get a scammer tag because the forums administrators were your partners. So go run your dogs somewhere else you fucking imbecile! With this I will close this discussion. I'll be back next Sunday. This is like you rob me, than you demand me to buy my possessions back from you, the robber. If I were in your situation or any other GLBSE shareholder, I will go ask for a scammer tag for myself.  It sure seems so. And you are not the first doing it.Good luck! You did this as to show some activity on your site. You forgot to mention that the transactions are made by you, the owner of the site. Do you think this is OK? You took a loan to invest in your own enterprise and you came here presenting it as a big thing. May I ask why? Was it to pretend activity for others to join? Did Smikles knew about it? You must be getting desperate on MPEX front. Is this from the personal loan you took on BTCJAM?https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=123735.msg1340866#msg1340866If not, what a coincidence! It is because I do care for people affected by the mess you and your friends knowingly created. And while I understand my investors to be angry about it, as I am, people guilty like you posting shit everywhere, make me sick. He hasn't returned mine. And you and him have to prove it not me. So go scam somewhere else. I'm sorry for you. You were shareholder in GLBSE. You are a thief and as liable as Nefario. You were all in an agreement to stole people Bitcoins. I know, you all want us to buy that Nefario suddenly went crazy, how convenient. I'm sure that a shrewd businessman like you, sent Bitcoins to Nefario without knowing who he is. I'm also sure you are in a lot of lists for receiving Bitcoins. I'm starting to believe Giga did the right thing. Great, I will be around. Regards. So why don't you do it? I think the people in the BDT thread will be very happy to see it. And then you can start a new ASIC mining bond   with Inaba operating them for you. Talk is cheap. How about proving your statements?  Actually, I'm fed up with people like you, which think that speaking all the time will cover their past actions. You and Armando stole 10000 BTC, and now you play angel. More then that, you still try to share your "knowledge". Maybe is time for you to step back a bit from the keyboard.
Meni your detailed analysis and judgment of things you have no interest in, is very dubious to say the least. How is it going with your friend Armando? Meni loves math, only when it is in his favor. Can somebody please share Nefario personal data? I'm sure that his associates know his personal details.Thanks. So you Bitcoin Oz, together with your friend Nefario stole my BTC and destroyed the share value. You now want me to pay back, following a list given by you, the THIEVES. Am I correct?I will return the BTC when I get back all my shares and BTC from GLBSE. Bitcoin Oz have at least the decency to shut the fuck up! Meni, the thieves voucher, it applies to you too.MPOE-PR can speak, it is his moment. I won't be able to pay any dividends. All funds were tied up in GLBSE shares. I did not recieve the BTC I had in my account or any shareholders list.At this moment, after the GIGAMINING episode which will be followed soon by many, I'm afraid I'm in default. Still no answer. MintCondition if you don't contact me by the end of the week, I will request a scammer tag for you. Working perfect for me at 810MH/s. I did not try going higher, too hot in my basement. Hi,I'm looking to sell a BFL single as per picture.50 BTC shipped to North America.Thanks. I did not get any answer yet. Hi MintCondition,I was one of the users affected by the security breach a while ago. You promised you will return the BTC from the fees I pay. I believe your last payment was in February. I contacted you direct, but I got no answer. Thank you. If anybody knows Hashking personal data, please send it to me by PM. Thanks. The units should be delivered as planned. The only problem is to identify the shareholders. I hope GLBSE will provide a list soon. http://blockchain.info/address/1E7fQG2xW3EMD6pVJ1uNKrxrzzS1icrnWqPlease repay to 14GBjpL1vBzijwguDbpLE49HjjH9yQq6Zb.Thank you. Hi,I can do this if you give me an address.Thanks. His credentials are porno website operator. He host his website fraudulently on a US domain under a false name and address. You are all safe! You are a dreamer. "The bitcoin exchange" is running more than 80% on margin. A few weeks ago Smickles@Co were worried because the main Bitcoin address of that exchange received only 4000BTC. And all of them sent bitcoins to that address. The explanation of the pornographer: all other are "private deals". Try selling in that fake bids and you will see. But that is not a problem yet, because nobody is using that exchange. You really change your mind very fast, porno Mircea. You are invested in both Patrick and Usagi with your CDO.http://polimedia.us/bitcoin/mpex.php?mpsic=B.MPCD.A The fact is that this man has no shame, morals or honor. This exchange will not end well. Wrong, this is Mircea Popescu himself. This was his girlfriend account, but she is now gone or in a ditch somewhere. We do not lend shares to a romanian pedophile.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=102333.0
No arbitration for me. I will invest in mining shares, because I believe there are some very undervalued assets at the moment on GLBSE.I do not issue statements, I will repay from my GLBSE dividends and mining farm. I believe I have a bit of a reputation here, feel free to check the forums, but I sure have also some enemies.Thanks. Here is a thread about it. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=102333.0A lot of the models on his website look very underage, beside cut up babies and other things.He tries to spin it for a 4chan, but everything there is posted by him trying to attract other degenerates.He didn't have success in porn, so he is trying here for his next scam. See this as a loan. You give me X and I return you X + 0.02X after one month.Thanks. I agree with you, but the fact that Mircea Popescu is a pedophile running a porno website on the same domain as a bitcoin exchange is a big liability. Hello there,I'm accepting monthly deposits paying 2%. 400 BTC availability at the moment.Thank you. The pedophile Mircea Popescu comes in every thread trowing garbage around. I will do the same for him. The difference is that, all I say about him is true. A pedophile like Mircea Popescu, knows everything about anything. Sure thing, gypsy king. Now, can you please take care of my BTC? What does a pedophile do when he is outraged? Builds a porno exchange. Both the Pirate and the pedophile Mircea Popescu started with WOT. You can get a lot of ratings exchanging 10 BTC. Time for your meds again, you little pedophile? Just spreading the truth, you little pedophile. I'm happy I got your attention pedophile Mircea. By now most of the people here know about your porno past, so they can prevent another pirate.Mircea Popescu you are a proven pedophile, who runs a porno site. You have no financial education, and nobody have ever seen you.Do you believe anybody can trust you? If yes, I have a bridge to sell you. Yes, the pirate and the pedophile Mircea Popescu started there. Everybody can spend 10 BTC and buy some ratings. It is Mircea's website, and he is paying you. Do not worry, I already reported him.More of your stupid arguments? Check this out: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=102333.0Go to the boys side of his porn website to see guruvan in action . He is just a romanian pedophile. And some porn. Everything is better with porn! What other exchange? You mean the pedophile exchange? It takes a few minutes for GLBSE to process the withdrawal request. Actually it showed up: http://blockchain.info/address/155SsuZ7p6G86PhTBSE5t6NTUafAjGDBv2Thanks.
Sent from my GLBSE account. It will take a few minutes to show up. Please return to 1PRDHYvkWz85ikzcAoV8JmRi5usoLyCHQK. So what, you now want our sympathy? Pay your debts than sue them. I think you can't comprehend the liquidity crunch these days. Actually you do, but you are the pedophile Mircea Popescu shill and he told you to spread shit around in preparation of his Bitcoin scam. I must be the most stupid scammer, as I'm fully verified by GLBSE which you and your pedophile friend will never be.  You sure lack reading skills, no wonder you can't find good assets on GLBSE! My friend, there are a number of good assets on GLBSE. The problem is that you can't find them.PS: One of them is in my signature. Sorry, I wasn't referring to Open Transaction. I find your work interesting and useful to the community.  Because it is the only serious exchange available? I guess it goes the same way as your porno exchange. I add to the list Mircea's Porno Exchange (MPEX). Does this come packaged with some of your porn, you little pedophile? No plans to release more at the moment.Thanks for your interest. This forum is my oyster. I can post whatever I want, as all the scammers and pedophiles do.Thank you. Do you pedophile Mircea still believe in the collapse of GLBSE? Go seek a doctor advice. Yes, try MPEX run by a romanian pornographer in which 90% of all trades are done on margin.Good luck with that! I think is time for us to report this asset to Nefario for not fulfilling his contractual obligations. DeaDTerra should have all his assets on GLBSE frozen until this matter is closed.You can send your message at support@glbse.com. I'm happy you two found each other. Keep the pictures for Mircea's website . Go suck Mircea, you make a great couple! GTFO child porn lover. Enjoy it while it last! Nobody knew about the morals of that people from the begining, but we know very well about Mircea. I did report him, we will see what is happening. If anybody wants to help please let his webspace provider know at abuse@gnax.net.(NSFW) http://polimedia.us/dtng/f/ Up for visibility. I'm sure your morals are not affected by child porn. You are against putting money with the pirate, but you are OK with an exchange run by a child pornographer, turned morals teacher on the Internet.You sure make a lot of sense.
Yes, I do have a problem with people posting gore and child porn and then pretending to have high moral standards. I will repeat this all the time so put me on ignore.  To be clear, you are just a piece of shit, porno Mircea.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=102333.0 If I remember well, only the first 5000 GIGAMINING were sold at 1 BTC. The rest were sold at 1.5. You are quite a smart man. Nobody can mix child porn and finance like you. You are the teacher bitcoin community needs at this moment. All hail, porno Mircea! You are quite a smart man. Nobody can mix child porn and finance like you. You are the teacher bitcoin community needs at this moment. All hail, porno Mircea! Are your girls american, porno Mircea? What is MPEx? The porno business is not known for his high moral standards. But you and this scumbag believe otherwise. Looking at your forum nick, I'm not surprised. This lecture coming from a porn website operator is to be very well received by the community.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=102333.0 Did this get paid? Dividends paid.Sold: 169 shares x 0.1= 16.9 BTCDividend Payment: 16.9 X.01= 0.169 BTCThanks everyone! Up. Great advice! You are the worst alternative porno Mircea. You just stole 4500btc from MPOE. Dividends paid on Friday.Sold: 4570 bonds x 0.1= 457 BTCInterest Payment: 457 X.011= 5.027 BTCThanks everyone!Still 415 bonds for sale. You just wanted to blackmail me, but I have nothing to hide my princess.  Usagi, I can ask Hash for a statement, to prove how stupid you are. Let me answer your attacks Japanese princess:I have and I had over 2000 of my personal BTC with the pirate. Please read again personal BTC. I have more than 2000 in deposits with Hash and Patrick at this moment so I have the situation under control, thanks for your concern.I'm sorry that the situation it's so bad and you can't respect your commitments, but let me tell you, cheap personal attacks will not get you far. Again, you forgot to answer the question. Please do not give me the silent treatment . Serena, do you think when you write?So according with your contact, as sketchy as it is, when will you buy my shares back? Are you turning in a japanese pirate?Thank you.
Serena, you attacked me personally as you always do when somebody doesn't agree with you. I repeat, in my opinion you can't get dividends on the backing after the pirate defaulted because you are using my BTC without my permission. This is the third week after you stopped paying dividend for YARR, so I want my BTC back.Thank you. Are you sure you are not trading with yourself, porno Mircea? You mean the porno exchange? This was OK, until the pirate declared default. From that moment, she is using my funds with no benefit for me. Let me read you again your post "The difficulty is that selling the shares depresses the market price of the shares I am trying to sell, so I have to space it out a little." This shares bring you dividends, don't they?Where in the contract it says that I have to wait for you to sell your shares? You told us that YARR is very strong and liquid and you wanted to sell it for 2000BTC profit a week or two ago. The pirate is in default. How much time do you want me to wait, a lifetime? I have my own investors to make happy, so I really do not care about your hurt feelings. You also said you have deposits with Patrick and Hash so maybe is time to withdraw them and pay your debts.I like the way you try to bring in personal drama instead of answering questions and give a clear timeline. We should all move to a romanian exchange run by a porn website operator like you.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=102333.msg1121264#msg1121264 Waving from a wannabe porn star like you it is not encouraging for Meni, since you are a men.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=102333.msg1121264#msg1121264 Usagi, do not start this. You offered me 2000 YARR at 1.2 provided I give you an additional 2000 BTC without insurance. I refused it and it was the best decision I ever made.Contrary to what you think, I own 30 YARR and as proof I can send them direct to you on GLBSE.My problem is that, I get nothing while I wait for you to sell the backing you insist you have, while NYAN.A is getting a dividend. Maybe you can pay a 1% weekly dividend for the YARR too. Bitlane please make an effort to read until the end.Thanks. Dividends from the shares she refuses to sell, not from the pirate.  So, you are holding on your shares and getting dividends while we are getting nothing? Usagi, any news? You can pass my info.Thank you. Maybe we can create a stronger verification system. For example, I or somebody else can go and check the information provided in the Greater Montreal Area.  Great.Thanks all of you. He is in danger if smickles is here . Isn't #bitcoin-assets enough for you two? Mircea just forgot his meds again. Here are some facts:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=102333.0 He is just lying about the PR person. This is Mircea Popescu himself, and he is here to stay. He is known on the forums for his sock puppets and insulting anyone who doesn't agree with him.It is just a matter of time until problems will arise and it won't be pretty. Dividends paid.Sold: 4265 bonds x 0.1= 426.5 BTCInterest Payment: 426.5 X.011= 4.6915 BTCThanks everyone! More info about Mircea Popescu, the peddler of underage porn and gore.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=102333.0
Doesn't anybody finds this funny? A person who runs a porn site (underage, gore etc.), it is talking about security and morality in this forums. Much obliged locust!  Hi,Please see: https://glbse.com/api/quantity_trading/CIUCIU.BOND for the bonds sold. At the moment, I'm looking to sell 10000 bonds, but I may sell more as opportunities arise.Yes, I run this as a personal loan. I invest in my mining farm, mining bonds and some private investment funds.I do not use OTC, but I do have an account and now I see nimda left me a gracious note. Thank you nimda I will return it!Beside this, I do have feedback in my deposits thread https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=87780.0. I have more feedback as a seller in the buying forum, and I borrowed a great number of bonds in this thread https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=84084.0As you can see I'm fully verified with GLBSE, I just do not use social media. Just got an invite to join GPUMAX. The pirate is working! Please stop being rational . We are all here to make him rich. We just want to switch the handlers. And given to a porn star like you, Mircea Popescu.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=102333.0 Dividends paid.Sold: 169 shares x 0.1= 16.9 BTCDividend Payment: 16.9 X.01= 0.169 BTCThanks everyone! Do your customers know you are a porn peddler (gore, underage etc)?https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=102333.0Do your customers know that the porn site you are running is against Romanian low?http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_censorship_in_Romania There are no PR people. This is Mircea Popescu himself. Go to #btc-assets and you will recognize his writing style. More about his tactics: http://blog.spywareguide.com/2008/02/ A bit more. He brags about his successful business and about his employees, but here are the numbers: http://www.firme.info/polimedia-srl-cui22530016/.Another fact compulsive liar and failed businessman. All the content on the porn site is stolen. Use http://www.tineye.com/ to check, nothing is original. His website is registered under a false name and US address.  It is my duty to post here. This exchange is run by a dubious Romanian character, who is a content stealer, spammer, wannabe porn website owner, called Mircea Popescu.(NSFW) http://polimedia.us/dtng/f/http://polimedia.us/bitcoin/mpex.phphttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=74399.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=67535.msg862177#msg862177 Great answer. I think you should be the PR person, not the porn star.  Smickles, what is your contingency plan if the porn star is skipping town? No problem with Nanotube. I do agree with this. I partially agree with you. I would say if we can't get to an agreement to ask Patrick or Kluge to mediate this dispute.Thank you. DeaDTerra, the way you put it, Pirate will never default. On the other hand, for me as a bond holder as long as I get the weekly 2.5%, I do not care about the pirate. If the porn star disappears, how do you handle the payments?
Yes, I'm happy. So if the Wednesday payment is missed, can you guys please give us a clear timeline? You can do it Wednesday, no rush.Thank you. I agree with this. So which evidence is good enough for you? DeaDTerra in other words, you can cut the dividend to 0 and never return our funds, is this what you mean? You are right. Allow me to rephrase: When will we get the insurance, if you can't make Wednesday payment? Can you cover the payment from your pocket? Wednesday it will be a default, if we do not receive a dividend. I suggest you read the contract again. You can return our funds and if the Pirate is paying you recover your BTC. Hi DeadTerra,Can you please let us know when you will buy back the bonds? Goat is already doing it.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=98420.80Thank you. You started using GPG in your porn? Fed up with illusory dividends? Please buy the bond which guarantees your profit CIUCIU.BOND. Just that everybody knows, this exchange is run by a dubious Romanian character, who is a content stealer, spammer, wannabe porn website owner, called Mircea Popescu.(NSFW) http://polimedia.us/dtng/f/http://polimedia.us/bitcoin/mpex.phphttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=74399.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=67535.msg862177#msg862177 Because he is a porn star wannabe. This will be people faces when he will disappear: Source: his website. The porn star is speaking, everybody please go quiet and prepare your bitcoins! Nefario, Mircea Popescu spreads so much FUD about you and GLBSE, here and on IRC, you shouldn't go so lightly on him. Just that everybody knows, this exchange is run by a dubious Romanian character, who is a content stealer, spammer, wannabe porn website owner, called Mircea Popescu.(NSFW) http://polimedia.us/dtng/f/http://polimedia.us/bitcoin/mpex.phphttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=74399.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=67535.msg862177#msg862177 Up for new investors!Thank you. Received the funds as agreed. Pekv2 is a man of his word.Thanks. You gave him the winning idea . Mircea will get rich, if his "BTC Exchange" doesn't work out. The ideas of a stolen porn website operator, sure bring a lot of "substance" to the discussion. Mircea have you got some pictures? Yes, it did. A stolen porn website operator like you, pretends to have OTC ratings after exchanging 20 BTC, then starts lecturing about the importance of OTC ratings. 
A stolen porn website operator speaking about trust, this is a good one. What is next, a BTC exchange? Oh wait... Coming from a porn website operator, your ideas are very welcome! Hi there,  I sent back all deposits over 100, because these days my investments opportunities are very limited and I had the coins available. Also I was afraid of panic withdrawals. I will keep the rest of the coins for one or 2 more weeks.Please consider investing in my CIUCIU.BOND on GLBSE!Thanks everyone for depositing with me. Nice work Wendy and Patrick.http://www.stuff.co.nz/dominion-post/capital-life/5175189/Happy-helping-the-homeless Dividends paid.Sold: 3936 bonds x 0.1= 393.6 BTCInterest Payment: 393.6 X.011= 4.3296 BTCThanks everyone! Tomorrow third dividend will be paid.Thank you. First dividend was paid today.Enjoy! She asked for BTC to post pictures, but nobody took her offer because she is ugly.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=74399.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=67535.msg862177#msg862177 Can you explain why a porn website is hosted on the same domain as a BTC exchange?(NSFW) http://polimedia.us/dtng/f/http://polimedia.us/bitcoin/mpex.php You have 0 credentials. You just exchanged a few BTC to build some ratings. I would like to have some form of ID for more security, you can leave it with Kluge, it will be in good hands.Something tells me you won't do it. They both worked at Drexel Burnham Lambert. But it didn't end well. Hey Mircea, will you care to ID yourself to a trusted forum member?We have had some scammers lately and we would like to avoid troubles.Thank you. Returned 30BTC each to lazyxness and misternoodle, as requested by them.Thank you for depositing with me. Up.  Obviously, investments on the "THE BTC Stock Exchange" would have made you 100% profit. Returned 350BTC to Onichan.Thank you for depositing with me. No, the unit will be ordered only after the shares are sold. To alleviate this I pay the dividend, until the unit is delivered. For me, CIUCIU comes from the sound of a train in Romanian and is equivalent to ChooChoo in English. Me and my son play with his trains a lot. For you I see it has a different meaning, but it doesn't surprise me. Second dividend paid.Thanks everyone! Tomorrow second dividend will be paid.Thank you.
Hi,As explained by the previous posters, the 1% dividend was limited to the amount of time I had the BTC in my possession. Because the ASICs have been ordered and paid for, there will be no dividend until they arrive and start mining.Thanks. 300 AVAILABILITY.Thank you. Now live on GLBSE! pekv2 deposit returned as requested.Thanks for depositing with me. Thanks. I submitted the IPO for approval on GLBSE. Yeah, now I see.OK, 4@1.5. Sorry, but I see 10 slots.  4@1 Up for interest! Up for new investors!Thank you. You are trying too hard, you are becoming annoying, same as EskimoBob. While I don't care about this dispute, everybody should do some calculations before investing, I personally invest in mining because I want more bitcoins, not dollars. Actually, I invest dollars to get as much bitcoins as I can. Up for new investors!Thank you. Added to the contract: "If the mining equipment is not delivered by then, the dividend paid will be reduced to 0.5% at the moment the bitcoin reward is halved."Thank you. Up for more interest. Payments sent. For errors or missing payments please contact me.Thank you. First dividend paid.Thanks everyone! I updated the depositors list.Please let me know if you find errors. Up for more interest.
Yes, but Goat insures only 1 BTC, at least 0.5 BTC is not covered. Tomorrow first dividend will be paid.Thank you. I will ask CPA for a quote on insurance.Thanks. Never thought of this! Let's ask GIGAVPS or Inaba What do you suggest? The shares are now available on GLBSE https://glbse.com/asset/view/CIUCIU.MINING"Each share will give his owner 1/37200 of the bitcoin production of a BitForce Mini Rig ‘SC’  by Butterly Labs. The share price is set at 0.1 BTC. 7200 shares will be kept by the operator as operating costs. Each share will receive 1% weekly dividend paid by the operator until the unit arrives. When the ASIC unit starts mining, the interest paid in advance be the operator will be deducted from the weekly profits. If the mining equipment is not delivered by then, the dividend paid will be reduced to 0.5% at the moment the bitcoin reward is halved.Should mining become unprofitable or other circumstances cause the operator to be unable or unwilling to perform his duties, sale of all hardware and equal distribution of funds will commence according to the number of shares held by each individual."FAQ:Q: When will the first dividend payment be made?A: All weekly dividend payments happen on Wednesday. The first payment will be on August 15th. I'm looking for investors.   Done, payment day from now on will be Friday, same as CIUCIU.BOND. At the moment I have 764.65 BTC in deposits at 1.5%. I returned the 2% deposits because a big loan was returned to me. At the moment I have room for an additional 850 BTC, but at 1.5%. Again, I'm not anonymous, all my personal data is with GLBSE. All new deposits I take are fully covered by personal reserves and GLBSE shares.Thanks again to all my depositors. Not everything, just the 2% deposits. Thanks. Because Micon made me feel ashamed of myself, I will return today 2506 BTC plus interest, representing all my 2% deposits.  I still take deposits at 1.5%.Thanks to all my depositors. The bonds are now live on GLBSE.Thank you for investing with me! May I ask why are you selling it? How dare you nimda to base your post on mathematics?  I'm afraid that won't be possible. I will become just an ATM paying dividend until better opportunities arrive. You are right in your predictions.I'm not looking to reinvent the wheel, I just want to offer risk adverse people the best weekly rate on GLBSE. The bond is 100% guaranteed from my reserves and I'm fully verified.Thank you. I added the buyback price. Hi,I'm going to use the buyback option when I will no longer be able to maintain the 1.1% weekly dividend.Thanks for your interest. 2012/02/01 Claim process CLOSED! Please check your email you had registered with GLBSE and follow the instructions! Please claim by March 15th. As you may know, the first emission of CIUCIU.BOND is now live on GLBSE https://glbse.com/asset/view/CIUCIU.BONDCIUCIU.BOND pays 1.1% of face value every Friday. Percentage will remain at 1.1%/week until the bond is bought back by the bond-issuer. Bonds will be issued at .1 BTC, and each share will pay .0011 BTC weekly. There is no limit on how many bonds may be issued, nor when they may be issued. Bonds can be issued and sold without warning by the bond-issuer at any price. Bonds cannot be sold back to the bond-holder except in case of a buyback. CIUCIU.BND does not have a set date of maturity. The buyback price is set at 0.1011 BTC per share.The bond-issuer is not permitted to change this contract at any time under any circumstance.Thank you. I would like to thank all people who have lent me shares. Thank you very much for your trust!I did make some profit, but I could had made more if I would have had more shares at the right moment. I hope you enjoyed your bigger dividend!Thank you again! Payments sent. For errors or missing payments please contact me.Thank you.
Up. Hi,Yes, the second deposit will get 1.5% and the first 2%. Use the same address if you want to deposit.Thank you. Hi,Older deposits get 2% until you withdraw or I return them.Thank you. Nothing has changed. 600 shares gets us 3 singles SC. We buy the units from him because he offers us better pricing.Thanks. Bought 600 shares of PUREASIC.We were left with 41 BTC. I will return 8BTC to the people who donated for the GLBSE listing, and return 33BTC as dividents. Any unforeseen spendings will be deducted from the first payment after sharehoders approval.Thanks to all investors! I decided to wait for wogout to get verified with GLBSE. If he doesn't by Monday I will order direct with BFL.Thanks. I see you are not verified with GLBSE yet. I will have to wait until you get verified.Thanks. Monday payments sent early. For errors or missing payments please contact me.Thank you. I'm sorry, I no longer have availability at 2%.Thank you. 500 shares sold. I will try to buy 3 SC singles with our BTC. I will keep you updated.Thanks to all investors! 65 shares left. Much of my shorts are already closed. I'm shorting only BITBOND at the moment. Found another opportunity, I need some more BTC. Hi sunnankar,Actually, the shorting went smooth. Most of the bonds are returned now, but I can use some BIDBOND if you can lend me some.Thanks. Very slow for me too. The deadline for buying ASIC.COOP shares is July 14 (next Saturday) at 10:00 EST (GLBSE time).I intend to buy as much funds we have from here:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=92267.0Thanks. Confirmed.Thank you. This week I will put an order for I hope 2 BitForce Single ‘SC’ and after I will stop selling shares. Until then I will pay some divident, at 0% risk for the COOP funds.Thanks. I try to pay 2% per week by doing some GLBSE trading.Thanks. Open availability.
He is asking $7840 for 7 singles, for the last 2 he will take shares in ASIC.COOP. So in total we get 9 singles for ~1600 shares, which is equivalent to 225Mh/s per share, minus the operating cost. 256 sold at the moment. I can't calculate exactly at the moment, but they will be kept at a minimum. All will be made public and they will be approved by the shareholders. This will be great. I will buy another 100 shares myself too. Yes, I will opearate this 9 singles instead of a mini rig. It will take too long to sell 5000 shares. No, I just adjusted the number of shares to account for the 9 units. I do not think we will be able to sell 5000 shares very soon. Hi,I'm trying to purchase 9 BFL ASIC single from this thread:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=91278.0The seller accepted to get paid for 7 and take shares in our ASIC.COOP for two. So, we need to raise $7840 ASAP. He have 252BTC and we need another ~955BTC.If we want a chance, we need this money in a week. Thanks. Payments sent.Enjoy! For the same price I can take also 2.Thanks. Hi,I'm looking to buy 2 BFL singles. Let me know what you have and your asking price.Thank you. Yes, I've accepted your deposit. I will update the list shortly.Thank you. 2% dividend paid.Thank you. Availability closed for the moment. YABMC and BITBOND have not announced upgrade plans. BITBOND has only video cards so it won't be easy for him. Thanks for your support. Tomorrow I will pay the first dividend! Hi,At my end, everything looks OK. Maybe is something wrong with your account. Try again later and contact GLBSE support. If nothing works, you can send me 2BTC and I will transfer 2 shares to your acount.Welcome aboard. Up. Good morning! It will help me with my records, if every buyer post in this thread, before buying the shares on GLBSE.Thanks. In this conditions, I would say second option is best. We will vote on it.Thanks.
I understand. Thanks for your support! Yes, this is a much better deal then GIGAMINING! Morning bump. Up. We sell shares, until we have the money to buy an unit. After we receive the unit all mined BTC, minus the expenses are divided between the members, according with the shares owned. Until we have the money to buy the unit, I will place the bitcoins in guaranteed deposits offering at least 1% weekly at the moment. We can pay dividends or buy smaller BFL units with the returns.The equivalent should be around 190MH/S per share. We are now trading live on GLBSE! https://glbse.com/asset/view/ASIC.COOP Thank you Nefario, now I have my fair chance. I really appreciate it.Best Regards. I'm sorry Nefario, my last email took 5 days for you to answer. I did not have the time in this circumstances. As a matter of fairness, can you please set my ASIC.COOP ticker live right now? Mine was submitted 6 days before, and I requested the trading to start today. My IPO description is very simple and clear, everybody can read it. Nefario, with all due respect you are not answering the question. The form on your GLBSE website doesn't allow listings earlier than 3 days after. How was it possible for Inaba, without manually overriding the website settings? Hello,As you may know, I submitted ASIC.COOP for IPO on Friday, requesting to go public after the minimum time allowed of three days. It got published only yesterday, to be live on Thursday.Today, Inaba posted his company BFL.RIGS to go live tomorrow, without the need for 3 days as all the other companies. I know that my offering is an inconvenience for him, and I think GLBSE is giving him an unfair advantage.Thank you. Hi Qoheleth,If you check the ASIC.COOP listing on GLBSE, you will see that I'm fully verified. In case something happens my details will be made public.Thanks for your interest. I understand. You are bidding against me and you have all the rights. Any other thread crapping from you will be reported. GO MAKE YOUR OWN THREAD! More than you think! Go ask hashking and Patrick if you want to find out.Don't be confused about the bond price you see on GLBSE. They are just smart money, protecting their investments. They will soon ask for more money from you for "UPGRADE".Good luck! Now, I will ask you politely to stop thread crapping!Thank you. We will see my friend! Now, can you lend some GIGAMINING? First weekly payments sent.Have a great week! So you are concerned about me and other people losing their shares? At the same time you want them to buy GIGAMINING, instead of them buying their own ASIC.In your post you forget some elements:- the difficulty is going up, wait for ASIC to start "testing".- the reward will drop to 25.- if any other ASIC is coming before BFL you are all broke.- There can be no big advantage for the first orders, if BFL runs the ASIC for a week to "test stress them".So, I strongly believe I'm on the right path. I encourage you to go to the lending section, there are offers with 2% weekly guaranteed, which is better than any mining bond will ever pay.Thank you for your concern. Hi,Gigamining payment sent, Bitbond was sent yeserday. By mistake I paid YABMC twice, I will compensate for it next payment.Have a great week! We are now listed on GLBSE. https://glbse.com/iposThe trading will begin Thursday.
Yes, I'm positive . One question for you: Do you still believe in Santa? I need more! I no longer pay double divident, I pay 50% more then the bond.Thanks. I do not get the first question. It is very unlikely I will lose this bet! If anything happens, I have plenty of reserves to cover all the shorts I do. Thank you. No, I don't. I want more.Thank you. Really not to much interest, except what you can see in the thread. We will see after the listing gets on GLBSE. Really, I'm not hurt at all. At this moment, I believe is better for me if the bonds do not sale. All I'm doing is offer people options. See my 2% deposits offering or the ASIC COOP. I count on you when GIGAMINING will offer new bonds to be there for us, the consumers! While I agree with some of your views, I've never seen you lecturing in the GIGAMINING, BITBOND or YABMC thread. Maybe you should go also there, that people really need yor advice! I would say we start with the cheaper ASICS, but we will vote on it.I filled for IPO this evening. It should be here soon: https://glbse.com/iposSo you better have your BTC ready for Monday evening.  First divident will be paid on Monday. For potential depositors, Victor has more than 300BTC with me in GLBSE shares.Thank you. As you can see, I'm fully verified with GLBSE.Thank you. He got back to me today.Thank you Nefario. I will start the listing on GLBSE on the weekend. I have had some people reading the IPO description and I believe we can go ahead.Yes, it is .03 per 1MH/S if everything gets sold and it can be less or more depending on the exchange rate. I would say dividends get divided among the active shares, if we want to expand we raise more capital, share holders being given priority to purchase.Some calculations need to be made, I'm not sure if the reward will be more than 1% per week. The bonds are now on GLBSE.Thank you. Yes, it will. Everything I told you is on the top post and it will be my contract with the bond holders. I get it, you don't trust me and it is OK, please do not invest with me. The Mh/s bond value will be upgraded with the minig capacity provided by a third of the capital I get from the bonds sale. So the Mh/s value of the bond can go up 10 times more, I do not know for sure until BFL makes a complete announcement. Do not forget about the potential advantage of the earliest adaptors.Don't ask me about future difficulty, I can't answer this. Hi,I surely wish I can offer what you are looking for, but I can't. What I can offer is a chance to be an early adaptor of ASIC tehnology, and getting some dividents while waiting for it.Thanks.
I have opened a support ticket for 5 days with Nefario. Do anybody know what is happening? This is actually great. It means you are in a good position for buying ASICS. Change thread title to reflect this! Give us your thoughts, please! Don't make my cry! You jump to fast to conclusions, settle down. Then I will make it my trademark, so you can stop reading it.   May I ask why? I find it easier. It might cross his mind. I'm sure he will do what is best for him. Up. I'm pretty happy you borrowed part of my title!   I'm pretty sure, he will have big competition. The best for him will be to stay out of mining. There are many things to be said, but I won't. I hope everything goes well and he makes bond holders happy, otherwise the Bitcoin economy will go in the toilet for a long time. I guess we can call it fractional reserve mining. So if the pirate goes down he takes GIGAMINING with him! I have a question.You sold bonds for 200Gh/s, but from what I see your mining capacity is lower than that. Am I missing something? Done. Would you like to make a deposit? If that is what bothers you, I can remove the 100% from the title. My depositors can answer you better than me. I can't tell you how I invest my funds, sorry! Because 2% is the best rate for weekly deposits 100% guaranteed. Received.Thank you. Since I reserve .10BTC per bond for ASIC buying, the real cost is just .20BTC per 1MH/s. If the majority of bond holders no longer want to upgrade to ASIC, they can get 0.10BTC returned plus 1% weekly return, further reducing the initial bond cost. I agree that this is a gamble, but I believe at the moment is the best on the market.So the question is: Will you Kluge invest in my bond? Why half divident of YABMC?Yes, the answer to this question can bring us a lot of BTC.
Let's go up! At what price will amazingrado buy back the bonds?  Updated.Thank you. We need people with writing talent . Please read the IPO description and give us your thoughts. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=88008.0 Welcome Garr255! I will PM a deposit address.Thank you. When I made the affirmation, I was thinking of CPA  .Thank you usagi. Until now, they offered a 6 months warranty. We can ask for a longer warranty if possible, or we can get some form of private insurance. Constructive criticism highly appreciated! Good news! Thank you dreamwatcher! Yes, this will be done. For all these I will add 1KW/h to the electricity cost. If there are other costs they will be submitted for shareholders approval. It is hard to estimate at the moment. I pay $0.075 for power. I will operate it for free. We might need to insure the unit, but I can't give an estimate yet. Please tell me if you see other possible costs. Updated top thread with better rate. The present depositors will be upgraded to the new rate. Updated with the IPO description draft.              Work done by dreamwatcher.Thank you. Hello bitcoiners,22/06 The bonds are now listed on GLBSE https://glbse.com/asset/view/CANMINE.I would like to revive my mining bonds offering taking in to account the new ASIC development.As you may know, I'm betting heavily against the biggest mining bonds on the market. In my COOP ASIC thread I received suggestion that the mining bonds who presently pay dividents are better than the future bonds. So, I offer you the one and only mining bond with ASIC safety net.15000 bonds will be sold valued at 0.3 BTC each. Each coupon will be worth 1Mh/s.The payments will be done from my 15Gh/s mining farm. I intend to start doing payments next Monday after IPO. From the amount I raise, a third of it will stay in an open deposit making 1% weekly. When BFL or other ASIC producer starts taking preorders we will use the money to buy ASIC equipment. At the moment I receive the ASICS and I put them online, the bond will be upgraded with the exact capacity our reserve fund has bought. I reserve the option to repurchase bonds at 105% of the highest traded price over the last 15 days.Note: This investment bear risks! Do not buy bonds with money you can't afford to lose. Now to the good things: Earlier adopters have chance to better returns until the tehnolgoy gets widespread. I'm sure BFL will give top delivery priority to cash orders, not to upgrades on which other operators base their offers.Suggestions and advice are always welcome!Now I have references!- fulfilled mining contract for amazingrando- my forsale thread: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=85180.msg938864#msg938864- some other references: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=87780.0Thank you. Very interested. Thank you very much. Let's start working on the contract. Any pro bono lawyers available   ? Modified the top post with more information. I'm following only opportunities in BTC. I have reserves of more than 2000BTC, so I'm not concerned about the rate of exchange. Thanks. Hi,I will buy the equivalent of 100BTC.Thanks.
Did you increse the coupon to 5.5 Mh/s?Man, this is sweet   Gigamining divident paid.Thank you. New donation received.Thank you DutchBrat. Rate reduced. I agree with what you said. But up to 20MH/s, can be as well only 1.1 Mh/s, see the cellphone contracts. You can reformulate as "20MH/s provided BFL doesn't change the initial unit parameters and upgrade conditions."For sure it will provide piece of mind to investors. I answered so many PM and questions today, I forgot about your promise.Thank you. No, I just sent 0.5BTC to myself, as my contribution. Use the total received on that page as your guide. Why are you asking? Do you want to donate  ? Hi there,I find your offer interesting. Can you please clarify the statement "up to around 20MH/s" baked by actual calculations?Thanks. Thank you! I added your user to the donors list. Thanks a lot. If you don't mind I will put your user name in the first thread as a donor. It will be much appreciated. First donors will have priority for buying shares.  Please donate if you can and like the idea. Even 0.1BTC will help. This or we can pay dividents, or whatever the majority decides. True! I will take your word and I hold you responsible  In your analysis you forget to take in the account the halving of the reward in 6 months and the increase of hashing power coming online next week. God forbid if the Bitcoins goes back to $5! Sure, will do.Thank you. I asked Patrick and at least 500BTC can stay with him for awile, bringing in 1% weekly.Thank you. This is a very thoughtful answer and I thank you for it. I really like the name COOP I know that this proposition have risks and it is not for everyone. I would like somebody to offer it, but nobody does. I have my own farm, and another unit is no problem for me to take care of it. I hate the idea of centralizing hashing power to a few huge miners.I'm not ready to risk people money, on soon worthless investments, like the actual mining bonds. We can always, if the investors agree, place the funds in 1% guaranteed deposits offered by Patrik or Hashking. I will do all the work for free for the first unit and I will invest 300BTC myself. Hi Patrick,100% guaranteed.  Mining operations, private lending, no pirate. How am I providing the warranty? The same way you do , by slowly building trust. Today a small deposit, tommorow another one and so on. Did not think yet of availability, not that people are lining at my door. I think you are not seeing clearly.I do have 8 BTC, and if you look for the symbol CANMINE on GLBSE, that it is mine. And yes, I'm fully verified by GLBSE. I can always ask Nefario to change it, or I can add it to the operation cost, but what I really want is to check people interest in my idea. 
You people tought I will go to war naked, don't you? If you take time to check my post history, as you all should, you will see that I tried the same thing with the mini rigs, but I stopped because of the ASIC announcement. Thanks!I'm always open to colaboration or competition.  Please send a PM first with the amount you are donating. If you run the numbers, that is not competition, it is just dust in your eyes. They bought an announcement on Yahoo news.They posted also in the forums:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=87934.0 The price on title is in USD, if you pay attention. This is because the price of BTC is very volatile this days.You are right there is no business plan, because this is not a business, it is a COOP.Regards. I wanted to show you another option.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=88008.0 Posted new items. You totally misunderstand the notion of COOP. I do not get any profit out of it, except for the shares I buy.For this, all expenses should be paid by the COOP members.Anybody is free to go at it by himself, or to pay ten times for mining bonds. Nobody will give you a better offer. If they do, please let me know.I do not want your money now. You can buy them at your convenience, if still available on GLBSE.And after all, competition is good for consumer! I'm going to have them on GLBSE as soon as I get donations for the 8BTC fee,I think is best to have the funds on hand, as to assure order frontline.I will spend only the BTC needed for one unit, the remaining will be returned as divident. I think you are part right. For this I opted for a cooperative. You only lose what you can afford.But also, without some risk you can't win. To each his own. I setup a donation address for the GLBSE fee: 15JLZpaYkXB942SoczNvHsXBsEJ8fcTA44 So, it should be around 750W for the unit. No numbers yet. The electricity cost will be deducted from the weekly earnings. They usually require advance payment. 12/07/2012 500 shares of ASIC.COOP have been sold. Thanks to all investors!The IPO is now listed on GLBSE, under the ticker ASIC.COOP.[/b] https://glbse.com/asset/view/ASIC.COOP This is a project to buy the new announced ASIC miner from Butterfly Labs: BitForce SC Mini Rig 1TH/s, priced at $29,899.http://news.yahoo.com/butterfly-labs-announces-next-generation-asic-lineup-054626776.htmlYou are buying shares in this unit so you own part of it. This provide piece of mind for future upgrades, but it also means that if the unit breaks we lose our investment.I will operate the unit at my location. The weekly cost of operating the unit will be deducted from the earnings and the rest will be paid to the shareholders.For the begining 5000 shares at 1BTC each will be sold.Here is the IPO description for our COOP:ASIC Miner COOP is a stock pool with the intention of acquiring ASIC (Application Specific Integrated Circuit) Bitcoin mining equipment. Our goal is to become one of the first in the market to begin mining operations based on ASIC technology, and to give the opportunity for investors to benefit from this technology.The projected cost of mid to high level ASIC equipment can effectively block many small to mid size mining operations from acquiring these assets. ASIC Miner COOP will offer the ability for these operations and individuals to own dividend bearing stocks and voting rights in an ASIC mining operation.Butterfly Labs™ has stated in their ASIC FAQ that projected availability will be in October of 2012. This information is subject to change and while ASIC Miner COOP has no control over order and shipping dates, the voting structure of the COOP will allow investors to take part in the decision making of the COOP. This structure allows the COOP flexibility and the ability to react to a changing market.Pre-order investment funding will be placed in an interest bearing account at 1% weekly. The investment funds will be allowed to compound weekly, until the purchase order is placed with Butterfly Labs™ thus giving COOP and in turn the stockholders an immediate benefit above and beyond share pricing. If at any time it appears an adverse condition will occur with the acquisition of the ASIC equipment during the pre-order stage, a vote will be held to decide if liquidation or investment in other technology will occur.Dividends will begin to be paid out after mining operations have begun, with all shares having equal standing. The COOP does not charge any load, and only operation costs are deducted from mining proceeds.Decisions about investing part of the profits into interest bearing instruments to allow the COOP to invest in expansion of the operation will be done by a majority vote of the stockholders.Addon: If the operator becomes unable to maintain the unit, he will transfer the unit to another member of the COOP after seeking shareholder approval.IPO description proposal done by dreamwatcher.Please discuss!I setup a donation address for the 8BTC GLBSE fee: 15JLZpaYkXB942SoczNvHsXBsEJ8fcTA44http://blockchain.info/address/15JLZpaYkXB942SoczNvHsXBsEJ8fcTA44Please send a PM first with the amount you are donating.First donors will get priority for buying shares.Donors (not including myself):pekv2 - 0.1  BTClocust - 0.25 BTCDutchBrat - 1 BTCdreamwatcher - 8 BTCDonations are closed we have the amount needed. Up. Confirmed  Shares received.Thank you. We have an agreement.
Hi,I'm accepting weekly BTC deposits for which I will pay 1.5%. The deposits are fully insured by me from my personal reserves, GLBSE investments and mining.I was asked about the difference between CIUCIU.BOND and the 1.5% deposits. They will both be run on the same terms, just that the 1.5% deposits can be returned at any time and they have limited availability. CIUCIU.BOND does not have a buy buck date set and I can see it going at this rate for at least 6 months.I do weekly interest payments, no compounding. Payments and withdrawals take place on Fridays. If you don't want your deposit public, tell me and I will remove your user name.Thank you.Depositors:PatrickHarnettTotal:500500 Good morning,YABMC coupon paid.http://blockchain.info/address/16SqSuqvQzkHVnS1aRsDD4PSJCewBvs1dnhttp://blockchain.info/address/17A7A8zNbvzwG3eQwdVRQwTcCe3vqSbJcrThank you. I can offer you 150BTC.Thanks. Thank you very much for buying! I will take it but you will have to deduct the BTC you owe me. And if you believe me, I'm not the only one doing it. We are in the middle of a technology change. Soon, share offerings will pour in at a more attractive price, then people will start jumping ship. My advice is to invest in something like BFLS. I might offer it myself soon. Shares received.Thank you. Thank you again for buying and happy mining! We have an agreement.Thank you. Need more.Thank you. Shares received.Thank you. What collateral?The 1 BTC is not a collateral. Everything is based on trust, the same goes for the mining operators. We have an agreement. Offer sent. Bonds received. Thank you. We have an agreement.Thank you. I will try to give you credit every time I use it.Thank you. Sukrim, we thank you for it. I would like to ask for your permission for future use in my dealings.Thank you. Hi,I received the unit today. It is working as it should.Thank you very much.
Shares received.Thank you. We have an agreement.Thank you. Received.Thank you. I was distracted by the begining of your post. We have an agreement.Thanks. I can commit to one month. After that, I can return the shares at my discretion.Thanks. How many can you offer?Thanks. In other words, he can sell you this week 10000 bonds at 1.5. Next week he sells 10000 at 1. The market reacts and the value goes to 1. He buys back your bonds at 1.05 and you are out of .45.This means that the first investors are screwed. And you are OK with it and with him maximizing profits. Looking to borrow GIGAMINING and BITBOND bonds.Paying double the divident as long as I keep the bond.Thanks. People do not buy only for the 5Mhash/s.If it was like this, why the private investor wanted bonds? He could have paid Giga to mine for him and get the dividents without going the bonds route. This is true. But it will kill the confidence in all mining bonds. Let's see how the market will react. Looking to borrow 100 BITBOND shares. I will pay double the divident for the period I hold the bond.Thanks. You have to disclose this information. Or to keep the matters separately. Looking to borrow 100 Gigamining shares. I will pay double the divident for the period I hold the bond.Thanks. It does matter at what price the last bonds were sold.If somebody bought the bonds very cheap, they can flood the market at any time and the bond will lose again a lot of value. David_Benz bought both ASUS 7970 cards and the Sapphire 5830 for 170 BTC.He paid me 82.50 BTC, and we agreed that I will give him a month to pay me the remaining 87.5 BTC.Please confirm. I sure can give you a loan for half of the value, at 10% per month.Thanks. Please make me an offer. No, it wasn't shipped yet. Here, UPS does not work Saturdays. Sorry, I have no 5850 left.Thanks. What are you interested in?
I got in to an agreement with pekv2 regarding the Sapphire 5850.He paid me 10 BTC now and he will pay another 17.86BTC in 3 1/2 months. Please confirm.Thank you. I'm sorry, your offers are to low.Thanks. Thanks for your offer![quote autor=yochdog link=topic=85180.msg944941#msg944941 date=1338999708]I appreciate you trying to work with me, but 173 is my best.  It is on the table if you don't find anything better!  [/quote] I can take your offer only if you pay me today, and let me mine on the cards for another week. Or you pay me 7BTC after you start mining with the cards. Meet me in the middle at 180BTC and we have a deal.Thanks. I really appreciate your kind words! Please test them and let me know if everything OK.Thanks again for buying! Up. Payment received. I will ship it tomorrow.Thanks. Hi,I do not want to go trough Bitmit.I will accept escrow with any free escrow provider stickied on the lending subforum, if you take care of it.Thanks. It means I have 2 for sale. Added 7970s.Thanks. Added 5850.Thanks. Hi,I would like to sell the following video cards. Shipping is included for US and Canada.Perfect working condition.I will accept escrow with any free escrow provider stickied on the lending subforum, if you take care of it.Thank you.5. 2 ASUS HD 7970 -80 BTC shipped each or 155 BTC both SOLD4. SAPPHIRE RADEON HD 5830 - 18 BTC shipped  SOLD3. SAPPHIRE RADEON HD 5850 - 23 BTC shipped SOLD2. SAPPHIRE VAPOR-X HD 5870 - 35 BTC shipped SOLD1. ASUS HD 5870 - 35 BTC shipped  SOLD Hi,I would like to sell this card. Shipping is included for US and Canada.Perfect working condition.Thank you. Up. Repaid.http://blockchain.info/address/1tg3mVXT4eEfiBPtSeWDyNFpN3TwqMrGkThanks a lot. Hi,I need 42BTC for a payment. I will repay 43BTC tomorrow.Thank you. I stayed up for nothing, but it was fun   Hopefully, the seller will bring some light into this matter!   And I thought I got it 
Actually, he said Auction end: 31 of may 2012 at midnight eastern time.12:00:04 is on June 1st. That is OK, who doesn't like a bit of controversy? It was an entertaining auction indeed.  That's the spirit. If you need the video cards let me know. I know what you say, but we all know that you love LOLWUT.He himself aknowleged that he was beaten, when he told me to suck his. Then after he read your comment, deleted his post. May I ask why? Thank you. I won! 127 121BTC. It is because I'm careful with my money. Here is for another 9BTC up. 111BTC 101BTC I'm interested.Thanks. 100BTC deposit sent.http://blockchain.info/address/147q8MTNX3GasUbberGuvqGHdjMtAZPwZyThank you. I'm using two of them for over a year without any problems. Hi,I would like to sell these cards. Shipping is included for US and Canada.Perfect working condition.Reason for sale: upgrade.Thank you. Sorry, my offer no longer stands. I'm pretty sure it is ineededausername. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=83985.0 Try again tomorrow, it can go only down from here. Not me, I sold mine yesterday. I sold everything. This is why I was thinking about shorting.
Because if the last news from BFL holds true, the  present mining contracts will be worth nothing in a few months. The new units might cost $100000. Looking to borrow GIGAMINING, BITBOND bonds.Paying 50% more dividend as long as I keep the bond. Minimum term two weeks. The first payment will be prorated according with the day I receive the bonds. The payment day is Monday.For contract terms, I propose using the following form: "Upon acceptance of this contract, I will transfer (Number) (Name) mining bonds to your GLBSE account.For as long as you hold the bonds, 1.5 the amount of any dividend these bonds receive goes to (Bitcoin address) within 24 hours of that dividend being paid out by the mining bond.At any point in time you are allowed to send back any amount of these bonds to my GLBSE account and pay proportionally fewer dividends from that time on. If however the bond issuer paid dividends, but you are within the 24h window, you still have to pay the doubled dividend, even if you transfer the bonds back in that window.I reserve the right to cancel this agreement and demand to have some or all (number) shares transferred back to my GLBSE account within 28 days (= not 28 business days, but 4 weeks) which are starting as soon as this demand is posted here in this thread by me. As long as the shares are not in my possession, you will still have to pay double dividends.All payments have to be made via transactions, not via GLBSE transfers, because then they can be verified using the block chain. Should some rules above be broken (which is easily verifiable for anyone using publicly available information) I reserve to take actions including, but not limited to, asking for freezing the GLBSE account where bonds were sent and/or being reimbursed in bonds and/or bitcoin from the receiver of the bonds." credit for writing this contract go to Sukrim Thanks. Great news. I will take 10! Up. 2 5970  Moving to FPGA. Working perfect. Hi,I would like to sell this card. Shipping is free for US and Canada.Thank you. Sent another 40BTC for a total of 100BTC.http://blockchain.info/address/1MwKBUZ7UEWV3Ub9XrgzCSE8bZfJCzkHZ8Thank you. I tried selling part of my farm, but nobody was interested. I will try to go trough GLBSE, but Nefario did not reply for 48 hours. Still here. Sent 60BTC.http://blockchain.info/address/1MwKBUZ7UEWV3Ub9XrgzCSE8bZfJCzkHZ8Address for payments 1PmDRxc5hV9t2d5mcfx7333iUJUNrb46qN.Thank you. Cut to 40% for reinvesting. If the operation is a success, you will get funds easily on GLBSE for more units.For the other investors, I'm in Montreal too and I can check on him  I would love some feedback. Are there any drawbacks to my offer? Is there a better deal on the forums? Let me know.  Sent 200BTC for the Pirate Pass through. Thank you. I'm sure you are right, but I would like to build a partnership, and not go trough GLBSE. If any other forum member can offer better terms, I will be glad to participate in his operation.Thank you. I'm listening to any constructive idea!Thank you. Try GPUmax again. After the update it is working perfect for me. You are wrong. It is working great and is making much more then that. Why don't you switch to GPUmax instead?
What is in it for the lenders? When I was thinking about this offer, I did consult your post. My offer come out as a winner.Thanks for providing this helpful tool. It is simple, just divide by 2 the daily reward and figure out the future difficulty.  Good luck to you too! Bulanula is just a troll. We have a history. OK, now can you please stop threadcrapping? Or if you want to take a share, please let me know,Thank you. OK, keep dreaming. Sure, great deal. You are offering something which will cost three times more per 1MH/s. Some back of the envelope calculations at the current difficulty and reward:Difficulty   1733208Block reward   50Daily reward   1.33Weekly reward   9.31Montly reward   39.89Annual reward   485.28Each share is equivalent to 2.291GH/s and valued 300BTC. Seriously, until you get that tag removed you are on my ignore list. I'm sorry bulanula you are not invited. Please wait for a better annoucement after Butterfly Labs ASIC offer is presented.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=83985.0Hi,I would like to check the forum support for crowd funding of a mini rig. If you are like me, you don't have the money to go at it alone.I'm looking for another 9 people ready to invest 300 bitcoins each in purchasing one.I will run the mini rig at my locations and I will keep 10% as operating cost. We will split the profits until the unit dies. If I become unable to operate the unit, I will transfer it to another share holder.We can iron out the details, I just want to check for interest.Why trust me?-started mining 2 years ago.-20GH personal mining farm.-willingness to provide personal details.-you let me know what elseThank you.Difficulty   1733208Current Block reward   50Daily reward   1.33Weekly reward   9.31Montly reward   39.89Annual reward   485.28Difficulty   1733208Decembrish Block reward   25Daily reward   0.66Weekly reward   4.65Montly reward   19.94Annual reward   242.64Please take in to the account the delivery time for Mini Rigs in your calculations.Interested persons:RIG11. ciuciu 1 share 300BTC Deposited 100BTC for 16 weeks at 2% per week.Please confirm.Thank you. Sent a deposit of 70 BTC.Thank you. Sent a deposit of 130 BTC.Please confirm. Do you mind pointing me to his competitors?Thanks. I wasn't referring to what he is doing with the money he borrows, just why he pays more interest then he should. As you guys know more then me about the pirate, may I ask, why is he paying so much in interest? People here will run to lend him money even at 10%. It doesn't make business sense to me. Interested. How about we create a fund to pay for research or pledge to a developer?I'm in 10BTC for the start.
Deposited 150BTC for 16 weeks at 2.25% per week.Please confirm.Thank you. Seller refunded 2BTC, due to a mistake on my part. Great service, great person to deal with!Thank you very much! Hi,Yesterday, I forgot to deduct 10% from the gift card value. I will appreciate if you can refund me 2BTC.Thanks. Thank you! I'm doing exactly what you said.I lost a card a few months ago to condensation. I wasn't home and the Internet went out. The cards got very cold and condensation happened. The lost card was using an XSPC block, all EKs were OK. For this I try to no longer use XSPC, they sure have a condensation problem. It comes from the river, it goes to the river. I believe is better than to run the air conditioner non-stop. Hi,I will take the last one.Thanks. Yes, luckily I have free water. Yes, I do. Just cold water. Here is a pic:www.mycpu.ca/Ebay/IMG_4327.JPG I use no radiator.  The cards are in series. I have only one heat exchanger.http://koolance.com/index.php?route=product/product&path=54_119&product_id=944 Yes, you right. First card is at 20C last at 40C. To lower the temperatures I can increase the cold water debit, but I want to keep the noise down. Yeah, the heat was driving me insane last summer. Hi,I have a similar setup, with 12 cards (9 5970 and 4 5870) working flowlessly for about 1 year.  The diferrence is that I ran them in series. I'm using a Koolance heat exchanger connected to the cold water line. Will soon add 5 more cards. Hi Hash,Deposited another 200BTC for 10 weeks at 3%. Please confirm. Son,If you look how old my account is you will shut up, which you should do anyway. If somebody is not as chatty as you are, doesn't mean a thing.There are a number of free escrow services we can use. It was sold to me as new, but I can't be sure. All original packaging is included. It is under warranty, until February 2013.Thanks. Hi,I'm looking to sale this video card for 40BTC, shipping to North America included.http://www.gigabyte.com/products/product-page.aspx?pid=3407#ovThank you. Deposited 200BTC for 10 weeks at 3.00%.Please confirm.
Mine too. Hi,I'm looking to buy a GPUmax account.Thanks.PS: Just to clarify, after some pointers I got by PM.In my opinion, I'm doing nothing dishonest. I was late to the party and I want in. If the owner of GPUmax forbids this practice, I will close this post. Hi,I'm interested.Thanks. I have 14GB/s available. Thanks. Sent 200 BTC at 16VtGRfYAugUZr7kJTJCiAYdM8uYro6nZq.1.5% per week rateI would like to recieve weekly payments.Please let me know when you get the BTC.Thank you. Hi,I would like to make a deposit with you, if possible.Thanks. Hi,Are you still offering the special 8 weeks at 2.8%?Thanks. Cancelled due to lack of interest.Thank you. I think because a lot of bitcoins have gone trough his accounts.  I found him. The problem is that I don't know if I can trust him after 10 minutes of reading. I would rather trust the GLBSE then any other guy.Thanks. I'm not familiar with the escrow services. Where can I find some information about Kluge?I will try to ask GLBSE to remove the sell option for my 500 Gigamining shares for a year, if this is OK with the investors.Thanks. By mistake I entered 1250 instead of 125. I contacted GLBSE support and they told me it can't be modified at this time. Next week after they upgrade the website it will be possible to modify it.I'm in the process to verify my information with GLBSE.Thanks. Hi,I created an asset on GLBSE https://glbse.com/asset/view/CANMINEThank you very much to the investors, I will make all my future actions very transparent. I currently mine at 110% PPS, but it can change at anytime, so it is only 100% PPS.Thinking like this, also GIGAMINING is mining on Gpumax and it gets more than 100% PPS.I will go ahead and issues the shares on GLBSE. I will provide all my contact informations.Thank you. Hi,Thanks for the support, I was starting to think it is a bad idea. I try to move in small steps and always cover the capacity I sell bonds for. I can fully cover the 5GB/s from my own ming farm until the BFL singles arrive. I'm also ready to put a collateral of 500 Gigamining shares. If any trusted forum member is in the Montreal area, he can come and see my operation.Thank you. Hi,I will have to change the start up procedure for all the rigs and this take time. I also mine at 110% PPS and I will lose money.If you follow the link you will see that the page changes the numbers in a few seconds, it is impossible to edit it continuously.If you are not familiar with Anubis you can find details about it on the forums.Thanks. Good morning, Here are 2 pics:Thanks. The link is again working.Thanks. This was fast! Somebody already deleted all my hosts. I will redo it and show it when there is interest from an investor.Thanks. I can offer a collateral of 500 shares in GIGAMINING I bought a few days ago. I can try to speak at GBLSE to remove the sell option on my account and keep them in escrow.I will provide personal information, driving licence.I'm in Canada, I pay $0.075/KW.Thanks.
I understand the problem, unfortunately it takes too much time.As proof, here is a link to my anubis page, hosted on my home computer.Two hosts are on wireless and sometime they do not show up. I can provide pictures.Thanks. Hello bitcoiners,I would like to offer 125 shares in my  mining operation valued at 10 BTC each. Each coupon will be worth 40Mh/s.I intend to use the funds to purchase 10 Butterfly Labs BitForce Singles.Until their arrival I will make the payments from my 15GB mining farm. I intend to start on 16th, with weekly payments.I reserve the option to repurchase bonds at 105% of the highest traded price over the last 15 days.I would like to keep this as transparent as possible so I'm ready to answer all questions. Suggestions and advice are welcome!Thank you.Follow up:1. By mistake I entered 1250 instead of 125. I contacted GLBSE support and they told me it can't be modified at this time. Next week after they upgrade the website it will be possible to modify it. Be kind I'm new to this!2. Personal information submitted for approval.3. Personal information verified by GLBSE. Hi there,I have 2 for sale. They are used. You have to supply the thermal pads.Looking for 17 BTC each, shipping to North America included.Thank you. I can offer you 25 BTC.Thanks. Hi there,I have 2 for sale. They are new in original box.http://www.ekwaterblocks.com/shop/blocks/vga-blocks/ati-radeon-full-cover-blocks/ek-fc6990-acetal-nickel.htmlLooking for 32 BTC each, shipping to North America included.Thank you. Got it. Let me know if you need more info. When this happened? That was leaked by MtGox. I use a different user and password. Hi,I checked with the block exporer, but I do not understand the output.http://blockexplorer.com/tx/17048250d465f25243fc7a09b24379989302b19f9176acd5fc63ac51a48ea561#o1I will try a manual payment  to see if it is working.Thanks. Around 12GH/s. We will see after they check their logs. Do not use the automatic payment feature until this is checked out. It is not an easy password. The address is not changed in the control panel. Beside the adress they should have guess also the PIN. I believe it is a bug in the automated payment module. It is the address with which I registered and it is the actual address from the control panel. I did not change anything. They sent the payment to the wrong address.  Hello there,There is a problem with the automatic payment.I had an automatic payment of 25 bitcoins which went to a different address which is not mine.Here is a pic:The top address is not mine and the actual address in the account is still 1ATRa5im91QsuNDYL81BpvhENuJWE78Ets.Please advise! Hi,I'm looking to buy Mtgox$ for Paypal USD OR CAD EMT at 1:1.Thanks. I believe I did test eligius pool for a few hours last week.Thanks. Can somebody please explain this?Thanks. I'm first to say that this pool operator is a scammer. He didn't pay the bitcoins for a week and he is not answering any questions. I'm speaking about the variance introduced by the scoring method. I can help you, if still interested.
OK, I get it but I do not care. It is a stupid method, even if mathematical makes sense. How do you expect me to mine on this pool, when my first reward instead of 4 is 0,004? Should I go on hoping in 1 year will even out? This is a bullshit method and stupid variance, and sooner or later you will lose most users.The end. 1984, I'm using cgminer. I just wanted to try again Eclipse, as I like to give the smaller guy a chance, but it seems Arsbitcoin is a better fit for me. Good luck!Inaba, you didn't say it, but all the other implied it. I will check your pool after you implement your new method.Regards. Inaba, After a lot of pool testing, at the moment I'm looking at PPS or SMPPS.   I gave your pool again a chance (I mined with you previously, until your pool went down for a full night), because I really liked your site and style. All people are screaming pool hopper, but you and me know that this is not the case. I might return in case you implement one of the two methods. From n4l3hp explanation, now I understand.I still do not think this is fair. There is nothing written on the website when you sign up. Anyway, enjoy MY bitcoins they are the last you get from me. You just lost soon to be 15Gh, to some stupid score method. Hey Monkey,Then you should tell this to people who sign up, not robbing them of their shares. I understand is convenient for you to take advantage of this, but it should not work this way. Again, according with the control panel block 56 took 2824488 shares. I submitted 269435 shares. My reward should have been approximately 4.76, not 0.00735799 as indicated now.  Yes, I can understand a penalty if you do not mine continuously but it should be around 10%, not that you lose everything. What is happening if my rig breaks down or I'm without electricity?How do I know that is not the pool operator who took my bitcoins, without sharing with the other pool members? I do not understand your explanations.My control window shows that I submitted 269435 out of 2824488 shares for block 56, and the total payout is 0.00735799. The user name is ursu.  Hey,I test drive your pool again, and I contributed 269435 shares out of 2824488 for the last block. My payout was only 0.00735799. I don't know what method you use, but for sure you are not making any friends with it.Basically, you stole me 4.76 bitcoins and I'm not happy at all. No answer, no payment, pool not working. Hi,I'm at 2 bitcoins on PPS for over two hours and I did not get paid. Should I switch my miners?Thanks. https://mtgox.com/users/sendMoney Will take all you have left if you accept clearcoin.Thank you. Still available. +1 mnathaniFast payment and good communication. Thank you! +1 to tysatFast transaction. I got an Amazon gift card for bitcoins using Clearcoin. I can provide references.Thank you. 50 bitcoins and 500 MtGox. Hi,As per title, I would like to sell Bitcoins or MtGox $ for CAD using email money transfer. The exchange rate for Bitcoins is based on the Mt Gox rate.Thank you.
