#Authentication Post IdenaBitcointalk username : sandosTelegram username : @sandos0Wallet address : 0x507ea567ced4f1d42b63898073a48670b2f3986b A lot of people choose to invest in old coins, but I think these coins certainly can't bring you much profit. Most investors prefer new potential coins because there will be more opportunities to make money, and certainly if you are lucky you can get 100x assets in a short time. I usually choose coins from IEO projects or some projects in the top 1000 because there are many potential options for you. However, your risk will be very high, and if you choose the wrong coin that can return to 0 at any time. I am waiting for this to appear because, in the past few weeks the market has entered the bull phase making investor sentiment more optimistic. I guess bitcoin and altcoin will be the two options that are trusted by many investors because both options will soon rise together in the market. However, I'm still not sure because the situation is still risky, and the value of altcoin is often very volatile, so you need to consider carefully before making a decision. There have been many projects like this in the past and their strategy was initially very impressive and attracted many investors to participate but after the sale was completed, the project disappeared very quickly. That is why I am afraid to invest in ICO projects because there is always a risk when investing. Now IEO is becoming a more upgraded version and can guarantee you liquidity if that project is IEO at big exchanges. The market is in a bull phase, so it is not easy to adjust, instead of waiting, you can consider investing now because the opportunity to make a profit is great. Currently, the value of Bitcoin has surpassed the $11,000 mark in the past few days and caused the price of ETH to skyrocket. If Bitcoin price can maintain this price level, we will soon see the ETH price reach $500, which is the price that everyone wants to happen. USDT will never be able to collapse because basically this coin has a very important role in the crypto market, and almost all exchanges have this trading pair. There are many allegations about Tether but this stable coin still stands in the market, and no one is disappointed to use. If USDT disappears then perhaps everyone in this market will lose money because Bitcoin and USDT are often interlinked and will be very unlikely. Long-term investing is a very popular way to make a profit in this market but finding a coin that gives you profit will be difficult because the market often goes against what we think. Any investment will have its own risks but there will certainly be a way to reduce the risk if you have a reasonable trading strategy. I have been in this market for a long time but sometimes losing money always happens to me. I think there will be a new coin that will replace XRP in the near future because for me holding this coin is very time consuming and certainly you will not be able to make a lot of profit if you only invest in this coin. I bought XRP since 2018 and didn't make any profit for a long time so I sold. Not sure about the future of Ripple because the coin has a large supply and not much news recently updated. The price increase will only be a matter of time because looking at the current market, the price of ETH is at a very good growth rate so far. I think this coin will soon reach $700 by the end of the year if the market conditions are better. Currently, the psychology of investors is very comfortable so there will certainly not be any major adjustments so you can safely earn profits without having to worry much. I see other Telegram groups talking about this project a lot and it seems like this will definitely be one of the potential Defi projects of the market. I will definitely invest in the project but my chances are very low because I have to compete with so many other investors. Hopefully, the DIA team will soon publish a list of the exchanges the coin will soon list because I appreciate the project's development team. I am also waiting for this price to appear because Ethereum has fallen for so long over the past 2 years and this is the time when the coin is rising. I am sure you will not be disappointed when investing in ETH because the value of ETH has skyrocketed over the past few days. However, you should set the price to sell after buying because the market will soon have a new adjustment. I think that in a few months, the market will change significantly and investors will tend to invest more, so this is a good opportunity for you to consider investing in cheap pennies. Personally, I would ignore Ripple because this coin is not a good choice for me because the supply of this coin is too large and it will be very difficult to reach $5. I recommend only investing in potential floating coins such as BNB, ETH because these are two much better options than XRP. This project is generally dead and no one is interested in holding this coin. For me this coin is a shitcoin and will soon be forgotten, so generally you can do nothing but leave. I know this project is very and also participated in this bounty campaign but actually the money I earned was very little. Anyway, I hope the group will still work well if they have funding from other investors because this is a very difficult time. Also, be careful because there are still many risky Defi projects and will definitely affect your profits if not careful. I also know a lot of Defi projects and recently these projects are getting a lot of Fomo people so this could be a trap. It is best to spend some time researching because if you have an overview of Defi then you will understand that project better. Any trading strategy needs to be careful and certainly still can not avoid the risk if the market suddenly falls. Before trading I always spend a lot of time studying and analyzing because if I feel the market is good, I will choose to invest more but if the market is not stable, I will wait patiently. I am not in a hurry to trade because every decision I make will greatly affect profit. I feel that ETH is an investment that should be chosen more because this coin will be profitable in the long run if Ethereum 2.0 appears. The value of ETH has been adjusted for a long time and the coming time will be the return of Ethereum so please keep as much as possible. I am holding more than 70% of my assets in ETH because this coin is still my number one choice up to now. Binance is always aware of the current market situation and it is certain that in August they will launch a Defi project and this project will definitely be a project that you should not ignore because the opportunity to earn huge profits is very high. I feel very safe to choose to participate in this exchange because until now this exchange is still the number one in this market and no exchange can compare. BNB has been the most talked about investment in recent times, and the coin is sure to grow even further as Binance is developing a lot of other areas recently. This will make this coin soar and this is an opportunity you should not miss. In addition, the demand to buy this coin to join IEO is very high and you will surely earn a huge profit if you are lucky enough to have a ticket to participate. In my opinion, ICO projects are now scams because we don't know for sure what they will do when the project ends. What people are most worried about is the waiting period will be very long and not sure when that coin can be listed at the big exchange. I usually only buy when the coin is safe for me because it is the safest way to guarantee my profit when investing. This is a time to accumulate and make sure BNB and ETH will be 2 investments that will bring huge profits for you in the long term. I am also investing in this coin but I prefer BNB because this coin helps me to make more profit than ETH. Of course, if comparing these two coins, ETH will outperform but I am the one usually only interested in profit and BNB is usually the coin I buy more.
The altcoin season will be coming soon next year and now the market is starting its uptrend so I believe that anything can happen. Of course, you should only invest in the top 10 CMC coins because these coins can guarantee you profit if the altcoin season comes back. However, you should take the time to analyze because there will always be risks when you choose to invest. After buying any coin, you should set the price to sell to ensure profit when participating and avoid greed because if you are greedy, things will be very different. I have been like this in the past and it is my obsession so in any investment I am very careful and avoid letting this happen again. Also, follow your original strategy and don't change it once you have decided to buy. I agree with you. These coins will soon return to the price of 0 and become shitcoin so certainly no one can make good money from this project. Everything is not true and the BlockBurn development team did not do exactly what they said so please accept and forget this project. I also spend a lot of time working on the project but surely all the bounty hunters here will only get the number 0. Most of these coins will depend on the rise of Bitcoin so there will be a time when you will not be able to make a profit from these coins. Investing in old coins will really take a lot of patience so make sure you have enough time to do that. I don't decide for you but if you want to invest in safe coins you should spend a lot of time analyzing. The price increase for BNB is only a matter of time because this coin is still a lot of investors' interest and certainly I will encourage people to choose to invest in BNB. In addition, holding BNB will bring a lot of benefits to yourself because you can use BNB to participate in IEO or can be used as transaction fees because I know Binance is one of the exchanges that has cheap rates in this market. The altcoin season will never appear forever and there will certainly be a major correction during that period. I think you can only invest and find ways to ensure profits from this market because that is the only strategy to help you become more successful. I never waited for the altcoin season to appear because it would take a lot of my time waiting. I don't like investing in old coins because it would be very difficult to make high profits from the market just this way. In my opinion, you should look for new coins that have just appeared in this market because if you are lucky, you will earn a very stable profit in the near future. Of course, this is not a good investment option because it is very risky so if you feel good enough in this market then consider. Once you enter this market, it is best to take risks because this will be inevitable when you enter the crypto market. I think that before investing in any investment, you should consult with some others or take the time to analyze. I hate risks like others but I always have a strategy to avoid this because this is the only way to help me minimize the risk when investing. This is really bad for the market because I know more than 13 BTC has been stolen very easily. In addition, this also affects the reputation of many other celebrities. I am very fortunate not to participate in these programs and it is best to stay away if they send you this invitation. Anyway, that Bitcoin address is definitely not going to be traded anywhere because it is blacklisted by all the major exchanges available in this market. I think PayAccept is having the right development strategy and they have contacted a lot of good exchanges during this time. I am sure the value of this coin will rise very high in the future but first the team needs to have a plan to attract more investors because they are the ones who decide on the potential of this project. I will still wait for some time and hope this project will not disappoint everyone here. Holding ETH during this period will not bring much profit to investors because based on what is happening, this coin will certainly not be able to increase as before. If you choose to invest long-term, then you need to be patient for at least 3 more years to make a profit because Ethereum 2.0 will not be able to help this coin rise well. Anyway, the decision to invest is yours and should be carefully considered as it is certain that the price of ETH will depend entirely on the price of Bitcoin. It is still far from reality because this price is too high compared to what people are expected. I just wish the value of Bitcoin could return to the old ATH because if this price comes back then the coins in the top 100 will increase very quickly. Currently, this is not yet possible because the situation is still very bad now and the price of Bitcoin fluctuates so much that I feel very worried. Now almost any project wants to use Defi and this is becoming a new investment trend for everyone. I think this trend will last until the end of this year and this is an opportunity that you should not ignore because the projects using Defi have had great success. However, if there are too many Defi projects, there will certainly be many bad projects and there will be a lot of risks when investing. I choose to invest differently from you. I think it is advisable to devote an investment to new projects and maybe select some IEO projects to join because this type of investment has become the most prominent trend in the last 2 years. In addition, it is also possible to choose to invest in coins outside the top 500 because I occasionally see some good projects appearing here. The decision is yours, but if you only invest in the traditional way, it will be very difficult to be rich in this market. In fact, Covid-19 does not affect the crypto market and it makes this market a lot better so any investment in this period is also good for you to hold. I think it is possible for ETH to reach $300 in a short time as the value of many large coins is on the rise. However, any time you should have a plan in advance because if not prepared you will certainly face great risks. Agree with you. Every trader will have different strategies and no one will be alike, so in general you will find it hard to learn from others. It is best to learn only the most basic knowledge in trading and try starting with a demo account to know what your weaknesses are. After you get that result, improve your capabilities even more in this market. If you choose to invest in ICO, you will face even more risks because you do not know when that coin will be listed at major exchanges. In the past, there were many projects like this and it made investors feel very depressed. I think IEO is the best solution in the past year and reduces a lot of risks so overall IEO will be a lot better than ICO. In addition, you should spend time analyzing the project before deciding to invest because if the investment is wrong, you will lose money. If you are a long-time investor, you will not like to invest in Bitcoin anymore because this coin brings very little profit to investors and they tend to switch to investing in new projects. I am also choosing this investment method because if you find a potential project, the possibility of making your profit is very high. However, you should also consider carefully because not all projects are good enough for you to invest. Since the arrival of COVID-19, all countries with developed economies have experienced a crisis and without the vaccine, the world will never be able to return to the way it was before. In my country, there are millions of unemployed people and I am one of them so I just hope this can end soon. During this time, I can only choose to trade in this market or participate in some bounty campaigns to earn more income. I am also working on a number of projects and really don't have as much money as before. In general, if you are a bounty hunter, there will be no stable salary for you during this time. I like to trade in this market but currently, my investment is very small so I cannot realize that dream. If I have a more stable job then I will use the money I make to invest.
I think the coins below the top 200 will be more profitable because they are not of much interest and if there is good news, these coins will tend to increase very high. In addition, you can invest in IEO projects because if you are lucky you can earn very high profits in a short time. However, risks can occur at any time and you should carefully consider your investment options. I think the project will have a reasonable strategy to keep this coin from being dumped. In my opinion, the best solution is to list at high liquidity exchanges because if listed there, it will certainly be difficult to dump. However, there will still be more news waiting in the future, and hopefully this coin once listed will be of high value and help everyone here earn good money. Volatile of Bitcoin is the reason why all coins in this market are so difficult to predict. I think you should limit your investment in Ripple now because this coin has no potential and during the past two years, very rarely have I seen this coin rise. In my opinion, you should look for a more potential option because there are still a lot of good coins for you during this time. Ethereum has always been a good investment option in this market, but to overcome Bitcoin is completely impossible because since the market began, no coin has ever surpassed Bitcoin. Currently, the trend of investing in ETH is decreasing because ICO is no longer as attractive as they used to be, and people are waiting for what will happen when Ethereum 2.0 is officially launched. I am also using this exchange, and until now this exchange has always attracted the attention of investors. Since this exchange was launched, the old exchanges like Bittrex or Poloniex are no longer attracting as many investors as before, and the trend to switch to Binance exchange is very much. It was around this time that Binance dominated the entire market, and then many exchanges that had the same idea as Binance like Kucoin or Bibox appeared. Investing always need to have a reasonable investment strategy because any coin in this market is risky, so you will surely fail without knowledge. If you are a new investor, you should only choose the coins in the top 10 CMC because this is the option that helps you avoid a lot of risks. However, this is not always easy because the high volatility is what makes many investors find it very difficult to predict. These are all coins with a huge supply, and you should be careful when holding long term. I do not trust these coins because they are difficult to raise, and you have to wait a long time to make money from this investment. I think you should take the time to choose other coins because the current market still has a lot of good options for you and should consider carefully because the risk will be very high. This market can not say anything. I think BNB is the most potential coin to beat ETH in the future because, in the last few years, BNB is being chosen by more investors because holding BNB will give you many other investment opportunities. Of course, every investor will have different thoughts on this issue, but BNB is a coin that can surpass ETH someday. These are exchanges that are appreciated and always trusted by people, so I'm sure these exchanges are options that people should consider. I prefer to use Huobi because this exchange is very good for the user, and the entire coin here is always very liquid, so you do not need to worry when trading here. In addition, you can also consider using Okex because this exchange has very cheap transaction fees and many bounty programs for all investors here. I did not learn about Defi, but I am sure many investors have mentioned this investment trend over the past few months. I don't feel interested in Defi because such projects will soon be forgotten, so in general don't rush to invest if you don't already understand. In addition, many MLM projects use Defi, so before you do anything, you need to consider carefully. It is advisable to divide the capital source to suit your investment, and it is best to carefully consider it because the current market situation is still very unpredictable. In the future, the crypto market will still grow very quickly and surely these coins will be the choice that many investors trust so invest while you still can. Also, you may consider investing in some altcoins because many investors are seeking these options. The value of Bitcoin is starting to have a huge adjustment this week, and this will certainly affect the psychology of investors during this time. In my opinion, do not invest in this time because it is likely that in the next few weeks the market will have a huge collapse and certainly the psychology of investors will be very panicked during that time. Of course, that is just my personal prediction and should be analyzed for a more accurate view of the market. Nothing is certain as the market is basically unpredictable, so don't rush to conclusions. In the past, when everyone thought that this coin was rising, the price of ETH dropped to a very low, and there would certainly be a lot of panic investors during that time. I am also a victim of the bear market but still do not give up because the market still has lots of opportunities for everyone. Every investment project in this market always has many risks that you need to be careful about when choosing to invest. I think that if the project is good enough, it will always be appreciated by the community. I only invest when the coin has news that can attract new investors because the common purpose of everyone here is profit. No matter how good the project is, without a leader, it will surely be difficult to succeed. I have not invested in Ripple for many years because actually holding Ripple will not bring much profit to investors. In addition, the supply of this coin is huge, and every month hundreds of millions of XRP are unlocked, so it will certainly have a great influence on the value. In my opinion, we should only choose this coin trading when the market rises and restrict long-term investment because the risk is quite possible. Now investors are only interested in profits from IEO projects because very few people actually choose to invest in these coins because the risk is very high. Any exchange that implements IEO is only concerned with money, which is why it is difficult for those projects to keep a good price for a long time. Anyway, I am like other investors because everything we are doing in this market is for profit only. I think the price increase of BNB will only be a matter of time because this coin is still a good choice for everyone until now, and you should choose to invest now to earn good money. Personally, I bought this coin a few months ago and still hold it now because I know for sure this investment will bring a lot of benefits to me because in addition to profits, I can join IEO.  Binance is the only exchange that I can trade at any time without having to worry about liquidity because the liquidity at this exchange is the number one in this crypto market. I have been using Binance for over two years now, and this exchange always makes me happy because there are so many ways to make money at this exchange. Also, the cheap transaction fees and not spending too much waiting time are also the main reasons that make me feel satisfied here. Covid-19 caused the whole economy in this market to change, and all predictions of economic experts were wrong up to the present time. Also, the unemployment rate is increasing, and that is why I am temporarily unemployed during this bad time. However, I am more fortunate to have saved money but can only maintain it for a short time. If my company goes bankrupt, I will definitely have to start all over again. Tezos is the investment option I bought last year and has made a very high profit in a short time. I think if you bought earlier at the big exchange, you certainly made a huge profit. Anyway, this coin can still be profitable for you, so hold on for a while longer before deciding to sell because, in my opinion Tezos can completely reach new ATH by 2021.
Never going to zero because the crypto market is a new investment trend this year and is very much interested in investors so surely people will pay more attention in the near future. I think the situation is becoming more optimistic now, and investors have more investment opportunities, so you will definitely have more opportunities to make profits here. WPP team has never published the total number of tokens issued in this market, and that has been a very interesting issue for me recently. I think based on what is happening, the supply of WPP will probably be much higher than reality. Anyway, there hasn't been any news regarding this issue yet, so I will still wait for the official announcement. Currently, the value of WPP is beginning to recover and hopefully can return to the old ATH. I think investing altcoin is an option that you should be more careful because this coin is very risky and can put you at risk. In my opinion, you should only invest in the top 10 coins because these are very popular options for investors and absolutely can help you to make a profit if you have a reasonable investment strategy. I am investing in some coins like BNB, ETH, and BTC because these are the only three coins that help me earn very good profits from this market. ICO no longer attracts investors like two years ago, and projects using this form are often overlooked because they do not have enough potential, so I will never participate. Currently, you should only choose to invest in the IEO projects that are mentioned by people because if you are lucky, you will make a huge profit. Of course, there are still risks that you need to avoid, and I recommend you invest only when you know the project well. SEC will never care about these things because this is not an exchange in the US, so finding the culprit will be very difficult. I think only projects in the US can rely on the SEC, but to be able to do it will require a lot of funding. In my opinion, for an exchange like Bcnex, the SEC will immediately ignore it and make sure it will be very difficult for you to get your money back in the crypto market. I think each investor will have different investment preferences, but I think if you choose to invest ETH and BNB, then these are the two best options for everyone. Personally, I prefer BNB because holding this coin offers a lot of investment opportunities for me because the IEO projects at the Binance exchange require users to use BNB, and in the past, I have joined three projects and have earned huge sums of money. These two coins are really good for profit, but you need to think carefully because these two coins often increase in price with Bitcoin. However, I prefer DASH because this coin in the past has always been a very good profit for me, and since knowing this coin, I have never lost money, so this is my number one choice in the market. Of course, there is still a lot of coins for you, and if the altcoin season comes back, then you can easily make a profit. Bitcoin investment needs to have a long-term strategy and must always rely on this coin to get the most reasonable price. I bought Bitcoin at $4,000 in March and until now my profit has increased by over 200% in just a short time and of course I will continue to hold. My goal is to be able to sell Bitcoin at $30,000 in the next 2 years but maybe wait longer than expected. I agree with you. Investing in top coins will bring a lot of profits to investors, but often these coins will depend heavily on the price of Bitcoin. In the crypto market, I always believe in myself and never in others. Of course, I would sometimes consider it, but only see it as a reference for more new and better options. After a period of operation, old projects will soon lose the community, and that will make investors tend to leave earlier. I think this is the general situation that any project is facing, so don't hold on for too long if you are not patient enough when choosing to invest. However, you can choose to invest safely by choosing only the coins in the top 20 because these are coins with good liquidity and always attract many new investors. In investing, you need to have a strategy, and I like the market to be lower because it is the time when I can easily make a profit with my trading strategy. Of course, every coin has its own characteristics, and if you are a good trader, you will soon realize. The bear market has helped me make huge profits over the past year, and I will definitely make more at this time. I think tourism projects are heavily affected by Covid-19 and it will certainly be difficult to recover if this situation continues. I never want this to happen, but we can't do anything else and hope that Travala will have a strategy to restore it all because it's a very good project. Of course, I used to use the service here in the past, but now I hardly use it because I'm no longer interested in traveling abroad. Both of these coins are a good option for investors, but I prefer BNB investment because if I keep this coin, I can participate in a lot of big projects here. Of course, I have participated in more than 4 IEO projects here, and they all bring me huge profits in a short time. If you compare BNB and ETH, I will always choose BNB because this is the only coin that makes me feel happiest at this time. Sometimes, I get annoyed because everyone blames bounty hunters, but without them, the project would surely be difficult to succeed. I think they worked hard for their work and they deserve it. I feel people in this market are very afraid of the bounty hunter because they always think that bounty hunters can cause the coin value to collapse anytime they feel like it. I initially liked the development of Xcard, but very few people worked here when the bounty campaign ended, and the project team's promises were a lie. I am very sad because I have spent a very long time working on the project, but maybe I will accept this truth and not hope for more. However, if the project comes back, that's what will make everyone here feel happier. Investing these coins will probably take you a lot of time, and it will certainly take at least two years to make a big profit. I personally do not like to wait too long and will sell when held for 1-2 months because the crypto market is no longer the same as before and very volatile. Anyway, the decision is yours, but before you hold it, think carefully and always pay attention to the project's community. I agree with you. Ideally, IQ should focus on the project and improve many project development issues. This is a long-term project that I will surely hold for a long time and hope that the value will soon increase over time. Of course, many exchanges listing this coin will make it more liquid, but before doing so, the project needs to build investor confidence in the project. The volatility of the crypto market is often very unpredictable, and in any investment, you need to have a specific strategy because any of your decisions will directly affect profits. In the past, everyone had lost money and had a hard time, but after all, if you are still here, you have a lot of experience from those failures. Now, I no longer worry about trading because I always have a second plan when the market gets worse. This year almost all altcoins increased in price but certainly only increased in a short time before another adjustment. I don't think you should be happy because the bear market can come back anytime if you're not careful. New altcoins are often chosen by more investors, which is why these coins are often very easy to raise when there is good news. More than 20% of bounty hunters will choose to hold it in the long term because they have no reason to sell because the coin is being traded at Binance, and everyone knows the potential of the coin. However, if you need money, you can rush and wait for the next distribution because Cartesi will always have liquidity. I think the discount will not happen because the amount from this campaign is very small and does not affect the project much.
Ethereum will forever be altcoin and behind Bitcoin, so generally this coin cannot be compared to the number one coin in this market. I think people are losing faith in Ethereum because there hasn't been a lot of news lately that has made the coin go up and Ethereum 2.0 hasn't got specific information yet. Some people say that Vitalik abandoned this project, but hopefully this is not true because I am still optimistic when choosing to invest this coin. You need to evaluate them all, and if the project shows signs of a scam then immediately avoid it because it will only cost you money. However, there are some good projects in every aspect, but when listed at the exchange, there are no investors, and that is the problem that everyone needs to think carefully. I only invest when things are going well, and it's best not to buy too early because the waiting time is usually very long. Managing risk is not always easy because you must always be careful before any investment. In investing, this step is very important, and even professional investors can lose money when participating. Before investing, you need to have a specific plan and always think many times before buying because if not careful, you will be the next victim of the crypto market. COVID-19 has a great influence on the economy of the world, and every country is having difficulties in development so that this year will be a crisis year for the entire financial market. I think only vaccines can make people's minds more optimistic because COVID-19 can infect anyone if you're not careful. Anyway, this market does not affect much from this disease, but there will certainly be many people who will sit still instead of choosing to invest. It is best to stay away from ICO projects because it certainly will not be profitable for you, and the waiting time is usually very long, so surely investors will feel very bored. I think now IEO is a new investment trend and has been mentioned a lot for more than a year, so I believe that you can feel secure when participating. However, there are still fraudulent IEO projects in this market, and you need to consider them carefully. I'm not sure what you said happened or not, but the situation is very unpredictable now, and the value of altcoin will often depend on Bitcoin. I think the market will continue to stay in the bear market for a few more years because after COVID-19, it is very difficult to revive the economy and no country has declared stability during this time. However, this may be a good opportunity for you but be careful before deciding. The situation now is generally very unpredictable and often goes against investors thoughts, so it will put you at great risk. I think before buying, you should consider many times before deciding because the market is very volatile and just a small mistake can make you sup collapse for a long time. I've met a lot in the past, but after all, I still came back and made more money. This is the safest wallet of the project and always a lot of support if you have problems. I think Hybirx is a very good project and certainly this project will be known more soon because this coin is very potential. Besides, you can also choose long-term investment because I predict the value of HY may soon reach $10 by the end of this year. Of course, this is just my prediction and won't be 100% accurate, so you have the right to believe it or not. The crypto market is constantly changing day by day, and there are thousands of new news appearing in so many places in our world. I am sure in the next few years the investment demand will increase very high, and people will be more optimistic when buying Bitcoin or some altcoins. Of course, this is only a prediction in the future, but it will certainly be a lot better if the crypto market has more than 5% of the population known. #PROOF OF REGISTRATIONForum Username: sandosForum Profile Link: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1439Telegram Username: @sandos0Participated Campaigns: Signature Campaign ETH Wallet Address: 0xc34e145840F14A0da05b8CFe90Be5e81dfcE6F51 Crypto depends on the value of Bitcoin, and recently people have tended to understand this market more because since COVID-19 appeared, people were only at home. Of course, many new investors have joined, and the market will certainly recover soon, and people can return to make a profit. Of course, investing in the top coins will make you feel safer and will make a profit if Bitcoin tends to rise. I think if the price of Bitcoin does not increase, it will be very difficult for you to make a profit and will have to be very long. Anyway, in this unpredictable time, it is best only to choose the coins in the top 20 CMC because these are good options for all investors. In general, there is not much talk about SPYCE, and they only focus on new projects, so this makes me very worried. I'm not sure what's going on at this project, but it's best to be extra careful as you face a lot of high risks. However, SPYCE value may soon recover if the crypto market tends to increase shortly. BCH is not the best investment option, but this is the only coin that helps me to make the most profit from this market. In fact, the price of BCH will depend a lot on Bitcoin because if Bitcoin stays still, all altcoins in this market will tend to decrease more. The value of BCH may not be comparable to that of ATH, but someday the price of BCH will rise soon. Actually, I only believe in Bitcoin because altcoin is only a tool to make money in this market and you will certainly risk if held for too long. Of course, there are still some good altcoins for you to hold in the long term, but you need to be careful because the market is very volatile and it doesn't always make a profit from altcoins. One way or another, you have to have faith in your investment and never trust others. Ethereum basically cannot surpass Bitcoin because Bitcoin has a very important role in this market and will never succumb to any altcoins available in this market. However, anything can happen if Ethereum proves valuable because this market always has enough time to do so. Of course it will take a lot of things, but the possibility of Ethereum becoming number one is very low. I have never heard of Bil Wax, but I will try to find out after this article because many people are recommending it. However, currently I only use exchanges that are encouraged like Binance or Huobi because these are the two biggest exchanges in the crypto market and still bring a lot of new opportunities for investors. Constantly evolving and learning because the crypto market has so many ways to make money and you will certainly know what to do to make money here. For some newbies, you can absolutely participate in the bounty campaign to make less money or choose to trade because if you have a reasonable investment strategy, you will still earn a stable profit. However, before joining or trading you need to think carefully because it will affect you a lot. I am also looking forward to what happens next but this is not a good time to start. Anyway this is good news for everyone here because Utrust is still working very well and will certainly increase in value in the near future. Personally, I have spent 5% of my assets to buy cheaply and am waiting for good news. Investing in safe coins will surely depend a lot on the price of Bitcoin because if Bitcoin does not increase, you certainly will not be able to make a profit from the coins in the top 10. However, I still like coins that are outside the top 200 because sometimes there are some coins that give me very high profits and if lucky, that coin will be held by a lot of investors.
I think they will choose the average exchange to list this coin but for me it does not matter because if the project does not work it will certainly be difficult to attract investors. However, I will still wait a little longer to know what is happening because covid-19 is causing all projects in this market to be delayed and not knowing when to be able to return.  I think it is necessary to give accurate statistics to give investors a better view of this market because in this list are the exchanges with fake trading volumes. In my opinion, Binance, Okex, Huobi should be the top 3 exchanges in this market because these are the exchanges with the most investors participating and the liquidity here is much better than the other exchanges. Coinmarketcap is not reliable with me anyway and I only believe in my judgment. This coin has been with Bitcoin for the past few years, and any exchange has listed it, so compared to BNB, Ethereum will definitely be a lot better. In my opinion if the Binance exchange collapses then BNB will disappear as well so if I choose, I will tend to invest more in ETH. However, if you like both, it is good because both are good coins for you during this time. Bitcoin is the best investment at the moment, but the last few months have been very volatile and often make investors feel more anxious. The worst time was in March because this was the time when Bitcoin price dropped to $4,000 but now the price has improved a lot and is being traded stably at $8900. Hopefully in the near future the crypto market will continue to increase in price and have more new opportunities for new entrants. If this exchange collapses, the crypto market will be greatly affected and will certainly make investors' feelings feel more afraid when choosing to invest in this market. I think with what is happening, Binance is still a good place for you to choose to keep your property because until now I do not have any major problems happening here. In the past, Binance had been hacked over 7000 BTC but they still paid in full and did not scam any investors. I don't think so because the Bitcoin price has doubled after the discount period, so Bitcoin is generally more profitable than Ethereum. You should compare the lowest prices these 2 coins achieved in March and you will be surprised at what is happening at the moment. Of course Bitcoin is still the coin that helps investors make the most profit out of all the coins I know. Everything can happen because this crypto market never stands still and any coin can surpass another coin. Currently ETH is in 2nd place but recently this coin has not much improvement in price so I believe that one day BNB may exceed ETH. Of course this is only a prediction in the far future and will depend a lot on their development. Although this project is good, the fact that they did not lock the token made me feel very worried and being traded freely at forkdelta. Of course I only expect Geoma Dao to be listed at an exchange with good trading volume because if listed, the project will attract more investors. One way or another, the team needs to lock the token now and look for a secure exchange for investors. The recent price increase of HEX is being pumped and the trading volume at this coin is increasing very fast in just a short time. I think you should be more careful because of the risk that can happen at any time and surely after the bull phase, this coin will soon die and be forgotten. Of course, this is just my personal opinion and everything still depends on how this project develops. Investing in the top 10 coins will definitely help you to make a huge profit and will greatly reduce your investment risk. In fact, most investors have made a lot of profit from the top coins so this is a good choice for you. However, you need to consider the current situation of the market to make the right decision when investing. Not much is known about the token sale yet, but there will soon be IEO information at major exchanges as this project is very potential in my opinion. Geoma Dao has built a very large community and they always answer all investor questions so you should consider participating if you have accurate information. Of course what to do now is to wait and hope everything will go well. I predict the value of this coin will reach x5 on the first trading day and will increase even more if the investment demand increases in the near future. Of course during this time you need to hold BNB to get tickets to participate in this IEO project because if you want to participate, you will need to have a lot of luck. I have invested a large amount of money to participate in this project and hope I will have more tickets to join. This is what was predicted by leading economists and the whole economy could be worse without the vaccine. Based on what is happening, 2020 will certainly be the worst year in human history and you are living in an epidemic era. Of course anyone expects this epidemic to end soon but it will take several years for the economy to recover. I don't see any convenience here because this exchange only has shitcoin and any IEO projects here become garbage so I will never choose this exchange to participate. Of course, you have different thoughts than me and I don't have the right to believe in your opinion so please think carefully before making a decision. A lot of exchanges like Latoken appear in this market, which makes me very annoyed to mention. For a normal investor, there is no need for KYC because this exchange still allows the investor to withdraw a minimum amount of money and do not have any problems with me. I only invest in some altcoins for small amounts so maybe KYC is not necessary for me. However, if you want to join the IEO of this exchange, you need to complete KYC and this is the reason why so many investors can not participate. There are no safe altcoins at this time, but if possible, ETH is a good option for you to consider during this time. Of course investing now can put you at risk, but this is a good choice for you during this time. In addition, I will consider participating in some IEO projects at Binance because most of the projects here help investors make huge profits. All coins that now depend on Bitcoin and altcoins can no longer increase as they used to, so it is difficult to predict. In fact, I predicted this situation because ETH dropped very quickly last week and had a strong rebound in the last few days. Of course, this coin will soon return to the downtrend and that's why you should wait more instead of investing now. At the moment, IDEX is the best decentralized exchange, but the liquidity at this exchange is still very low and does not meet the needs of investors. I think most decentralized exchanges have had this problem over the past few years and certainly investors will not like trading here. In my opinion, decentralized exchange is only for shitcoin lovers because this is the best place for you to do that in this market. Actually, reaching $1 will take a lot of time to wait and first of all XRP needs to return to the old ATH level because this is the price that needs to be reached. Of course I don't have much opinion when it comes to this coin but in recent years ripple has not been able to help me make a profit and you should definitely think carefully when investing in this coin because the risk will be very high. I think just investing in Bitcoin can make you rich from this market but it requires a large amount of money to join because if you have a little money, altcoin is the solution. Over the past half of my assets have been Bitcoin and until now I have not lost too much money from last month's price cuts. I believe that if the epidemic ends soon, people will return to their daily lives and the price of Bitcoin will rise even higher.
The project is still working well, but because the epidemic situation is getting more complex and affecting values, they are suspending this campaign and will definitely reopen when everything is more stable. I have no problem with this project and this is one of my favorite projects so I would definitely opt in if they reopen. Of course there are many other reasons, but stopping is acceptable I am very cautious for the time being but still believe that ETH is a good investment as the coin has had a huge improvement over the past week and the market is showing better signs of growth. Of course, there are still many risks when choosing to invest but I believe that when the coronavirus ends, life will return to normal and the crypto market will continue to return to the best price period. Depending on the situation of covid-19 because if this epidemic does not decrease, the world economy will continue to be destroyed and many large companies will soon go bankrupt. The crypto market is also suffering greatly, but this is also an opportunity for you to consider investing because there are many cheap options for you during this time. Of course, ETH can completely fall to $80 again and this is a good time for you to invest. I hope this will happen soon because Hydax still has many programs for new investors and trading here is still very good compared to other normal exchanges. Of course this exchange needs to be improved in terms of liquidity and if this can be done then surely people will be more interested and HDX will soon return to $0.1 someday. Crypto market is a place where anything can happen but you are not always lucky to make a profit from the coins you are choosing to invest. I'm not sure what this market will look like in the near future, but I hope that the investments we choose will bring us huge profits. Of course there are many ways and you should have a reasonable investment strategy before investing. #Proof of ParticipationBitcointalk username: sandosBitcointalk profile URL: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1439Campaign Joined: Signature 1 billion dollar for hacker. that's terrible. I won't how they can cash out all of that money. because even people on blockchain are anonymous but we still can tracking every transaction on it.  oh thank you about this information. I don't know about this fork before  so is it make another token like ether gold or a standalone eth chain? don't understand what are u talking about. but I think:- if you sell 10 bitcoin at 6700 price. if have 1 order buy 1 bitcoin at 6700 price then your order still on exchange with 9 bitcoin at 6700 price. If price bitcoin when you sell is more than 6700. like have an order 9 bitcoin at 6800 and 1 bitcoin at 6700 you will get = 9*6800 + 1*6700 for your order sell 10 bitcoin at 6700. am I wrong? he is just newbie. so I think he just make a checklist on excel and join facebook or telegram. very easy to do this very to earn 10% daily but... very easy to lost more than 20% daily. I usually try to trade and get profit around 5-10% and one day I lost more than 50%.  should we remember eth only have 10$ last 2 year. so we should keep believe in vitalik buterin. not much. I know still better than nothing but in crypto market price dump so hard. 1$ today can be 0.1$ tomorrow so 7% profit still low for me best thread ever. we need many thread like this on bitcointalk forum. so btw some base on s.t ICO had been succeed like banana ICO (if you stay long in this forum maybe you will remember this ICO) ) ya. agree with you. ETH dump will make all token price dump too. that will create a terrible effect to crypto market  only have 33 mil $ ICO funded on August. and we can see over 100 thread say 1 mil bounty on bounty board. very hard to check all information  I dont think ether will drop to 60$. price down just because too many ICO sold out all their fund. every will comeback strong soon I dont think so. I think ICO investor now is smart than before. they choose project to invest carefully and have knowledge to stay away scam ICO always have hard time in this crypto market. this is very normal so dont give up at least for 2 years ok? 19mil marketcap. that is a good signal for me to invest into this token.  If everything is good like you said this token can reach 200 mil marketcap ez
very hard to get all information about a project. If anyone here know centra project. everything seem good till SEC arrest all of them. I think too late to buy altcoin on exchange now. everything is go up too high so we should invest into ICO again. bitcoin dont have new technology just like other altcoin but many people accept bitcoin. that make bitcoin become a good payment system for many services. but fee too high. If bitcoin can resolve that problem that will be awesome Hi. just see a topic on hacked talk about this ICO so I join this thread. I had seen a similar project before with name hydrominer. both of them focus on mining but I want some information why I should invest into ambit you cant get rich with this fund but I recommend you use it to get experience by trading. You can buy cheap coins which are under 1$ such as WPR, MWAT, BABB, SXUT,.. yes, you completely can buy BTC with your credit card. There are many exchanges in the market and my suggestion for you are Coinbase, Coinmama, Paybis,...  you can access in some ICO rating websites such as icorating or icodrop to find some potential coins. after that, you read all their whitepapers to choose the best bounty campaign to invest.  bounty campaign now is not valuable likes before. the managers just pay a little money for participants. So, i think i will spend my time for investing  in my opinion, Grain and Abyss are the best upcoming ICO now. Grain is an infrastructure solution that allows companies to process work agreements on the blockchain, with an instant payment mechanism. Meanwhile Abyss is the first project apply DAICO technology where the investors can get back your money when the dev teams can not do the project right  BTC can not be hacked but your account in the exchanges can be. So, i think you should not put all your coins in the exchanges. Just put a small amount in the exchanges for fee. All your coins need to store in the cold wallet with teenagers and children, you just should teach them about blockchain technology, cryptocurrency, that's all. You should not teach them technical analysis or something like that. because, this is not suitable at this ages. they need to spend their time to study at school.  I store my accounts and passwords in a USB and my family members can use it when I die. this is an easy way to protect my asset.  i dont think so. each country has own benefit and the government will do all thing for that benefit. So, they wont ban crypto together. For example, Japan warn Binance exchange and now, the devs of Binance is moving it to Malta.  investing in BTC in a long term need a strong patience. If not, you are easy to lose your money immediately. So, lets learn a emotion controlling course to keep calm in investing most of them are scams. there are many coins in the market which have more advantages than BTC but they can not replace Bitcoin. Because they can make people trust. the investors just invest in which they believe.  i think there are no reason to stop buying bitcoin. Cryptocurrency is still a valueable market and the investors always trade which can help them get money. of course yes. This is the most important thing you have to understand clearly before investing in project. you have to anwser the question, why the project is created? what can the products help for development of the economy? it is very important.  thanks for your sharing and i totally agree with you. trading is the most difficult job in the world and you have to learn from mistakes to protect your money. and I wanna give my advice that you have to learn the way how to control your emotion. Do not too greedy or scared investing in anything is always risky and you have to learn to accept that. the best way to reduce the risk is preparing knowledge and skills carefully and you also need to learn how to control your emotion in daily trading the problem is not holding or trading. the problem is that you have choose the wrong coins to hold or you are not good at holing skill. If you cant get profit from hodling, what will you do to earn money? Trading? Oh no! I swear with you that trading is more difficult than holding and you have to have many skills to do that. 
both of them are profitable. but depending on your skills and knowledge, you can choose the best strategy for you. My strategy is hodling good coins such as WPR, BTC, XRP, INS, and trade some coins which have large fluctuation range. I can get profit from them.  i think if BTC just decreases a little, you can sell it to invest in other potential altcoins such as WPR, INS or SXUT. If it reduces very much, the best way is holding because in long term, BTC always grow of course never. The minimum cost for mining is 5000$ and BTC price is never below this level. As you can see in the market now, BTC has increased recently and next target is 10000$. you should buy it right now to receive more money in the future i think it is a normal thing they will do. Because they dont wanna be related with illegal of crypto. they will ban crypto ads but i think it is not an important thing.  it is the good thing which all investors want but i think it can not take place in short time. there are still have some problems about the speed, the stable price,... but I believe it certainly takes place i think you should wait. there are some good news now such as G20 do not ban crypto, China is considering allow BTC, or South Korea allow ICO. These news can pump the coins price soon yes, of course, if you want to invest in an ICO project, if you want to work for bounty campaign, you must read whitepaper to understand the projects. if you dont read, you cant do anything could you tell me which coins you can get 5000% ROI in 3 years? Although altcoins are potential to invest but to get big profit you have to choose a good portfolio and you must be lucky.  yes, i agree with you. the G20 conference announed that they wont ban or control cryptocurrency. this is really a good news for the market and you can see now, most coins have increased about 10% value. I believe all things will be ok soon that is certain! crypto market is still one of the worth investment markets for people likes Forex or Stock. So, the investors won't let it dies. they will pump it soon with 2000 dollar, you can spend 1000$ for IOTA, 500$ for Centra and 500$ for Wepower. this is a good portfolio for you to get big profit of course, the market cap has reduced from over $500 billion to $370 billion now. there are too many people who scare of the falling of crypto and they has gone away. so now, to increasing the development of crypto, i hope that they will come back and invest in cryptocurrency i have read many topics in this forum and most of people predict that ETH will rise up soon. this proves many people still believe in the ETH future and with this support, there is no doubt about its development anything can happen in this market and to dump ETH to 1$, we need a big bad information in the market such as the Internet is destroyed. lolzzz in my personal thought. I do not care which is the king of crypto. I am not waste my time to do stupid mission. I will spend my time to research the ways to earn money. I will invest in anycoin which can help me get money there is no doubt that if your children can learn Bitcoin and crypto in shools, they can have official knowledge and when they grow up, they can earn money easier. But this is still an impossible mission in the countries which ban BTC anyone has internet and an own wallet, they can use BTC for payment or do anything they want. no one can ban them even the Government. So, this is one of the big reason why there are some countries ban BTC transaction. I think there is nothing can control this problem BTC is always the biggest coin in the world. nothing can replace its role and BCC is not an exception. you can see, BTC has an 9 years development and BCC is just a scam coin Bitcoin can die and no one let it dies. nowadays, Blockchain technology and Bitcoin have become apart of the economy. it has own value and no one can deny.  beside trading and investing in cryptocurrency, there are 2 other ways to earn money. They are working for bounty campaigns or joining airdrop. You can search google to get more detail about these ways. But to be honest, you should not take part in airdrop. 
John McAfee has predicted a big number. But with me, I just think that BTC will rise up to 30k dollar this year. i has bought it at 9300$ and i believe i will get big profit in my personal thinking, XRP, BTC or ETH are still the best coins in the future. They have important roles in the economy and investing in them never make me dissapointed.  to find out the good ICOs, you can access some rating ICO websites such as ICOdrop or ICObench. with high quality posts, they will help you give right choices in my opinion, with bear market now, you cant find out the coins which can increase 5x or 10x in one month. The game has changed and it is just suiable for the good investors who have enough knowledge.  actually, not at all bounty hunters will sell their coins immediately. if they think that is a good project, they will hold for the rising up in the future. besides, when buy at ICO time, you can get bonus and receive dividend if this project succeed that is certain! but it need more time to raise up. as you can see, this moment is the dropping time and the investors are afraid of the loss. they will come back soon  in 2017, i invested in PKT, IOTA, Steallar and Neo. I have gotten some profit and i do not have any special tips. I just research about the coin, the project and the devs carefully before buying them. Besides, i also follow the market frequently to get news.  there are hundred coins out there and it is hard to choose some of them. i have researched and found few of potential coins. they are WPR, MWAT, SXUT and INS. you can consider and invest in them i think that you should buy in the ICO date. because you can get bonus and get more benefit than buying after that. you should not doubt about the ICO because the new technology, DAICO will be applied in the near future and you can get back your money if the dev cant do their project.  it is very hard to know when the market pump or dump unless you have secret information or you are good at technical skill and apply the indicator in the market.  in my opinion, Grain.io is the most profitable project now. "Grain is an infrastructure solution that allows companies to process work agreements on the blockchain, with an instant payment mechanism. Companies can slash the cost of labor: By organizing work agreements through Grain, companies can save billions in expensive payrolling and other middleman services." it has collected 2362 ETH and you should be hurry up to join i do not have any trading strategy because i have tried applied some indicators or models in this market and i have failed. so now i just researched and invest in long term. i will sell my coins when i get 10%-20% profit yes, this is a really great advice in this situation. the market has fallen down so much after the attract of hacker to Binance exchange. But everything is still ok. no coin is stolen and the market will recover soon i think after the Chinese New Year, the investors will come back and invest in the market. so, you can catch the bottom now and wait for the recover.  stop! this is a bad idea now. you won't imagine what you have to face if you lose your house. listen to me, you can work for bounty to get extra tokens, do not sell your house. i do not think that. because it is the first coin of the world which have created the big trust in the investors and it has 9 years development in the past. So, no one can kill its future.  of course this is a good idea for the future. at this moment, we do not have enough knowledge to teach children. but in the future, when BTC will be accepted in many countries, I believe that BTC need to be teached at school.  certainly this is not a good time to sell your coins because of the dropping market now. if you sell it now, you will lose your money. Let's be patient and wait for the recover. you wont be regret with your decision.  with this market now, selling your house for investment is not a smart strategy. Some coins can rise up soon but others need more time. It is very risky when you are not sure about the future unless you have the secret information I totally agree with your view. Bitcoin has fluctuated price. you can invest in it and wait for the development. Besides, you also can use BTC for anynomous payment which real money cant do. 
you can see the market is stable now. and ICO is a suitable market to invest. you can access in some ICO rating to choose few of projects such as Grain.io, Abyss, Reward mod... i think this is also a big problem with BTC and cryptocurrency. the best feature of cryptocurrency is anynomous but the criminal also use BTC to buy drug, weapon,... So, I believe in the future, the Government can solve this problem  I never doubt the future of ETH one of the best crypto in the world. although sometimes, it fluctuates and goes down, but in long term, it always rise up. therefore, investing and holding ETH is always a smart strategy #JOINBitcointalk username: sandosForum rank: Sr. MemberPosts count: 251ETH address: 0x9bcf77521478b2644fc6cee19b9f7bdf7c104e6e maybe. even I dont like ripple too much but it is a good coin for future. fast transaction and 0 fee.  scam ICO will die in 2018 because people have many experience than before so they cant scam people anymore can't think about this. this will be nightmare. nobody want this happen and I think this is impossible people buy 1 altcoin just because some news. even bank accept ripple I dont know how we can make profit from it people finally know eth is better than bitcoin. to da moon now and you should buy it before too late trade.io and knort both of them are good you can find their whitepaper on this forum ez dont use this exchange. even it list all new token so fast but this site so slow and make me feel angry all the time anyone newbie hear about mt.gox  If you know this so you have your answer short term too. in this week you can make money from any altcoin. just keep hold top 50 and get free money  how much money you invest into these coin.  just know only xvg. people are talking about this coin just pick a project carefully. Or wait people invest first then you can follow. less risk than be the first one Livestar and trade.io I believe both of them are best ICO in the world right now. invest before too late centra- the price increase so I think you can buy around 3.8 and sell at 4 $ . that is 5% profit ez in short term people want private. they dont want people know about their money. so I think altcoin will focus on anonymous for me under value token is playkey- image people can mine playkey by help other people play game with high system. why you dont update daily so I can see your trading strategy.  if you dont update anything so you are just holding some good coin not trading
binance. when the first time hear about this exchange I dont like this name. but after use it. it is the best exchange I ever seen no update? I really enjoy these topic. tell about your story and journey in crypto world No. It is just a correction. The market will be stable or falls down from now to the end of this year. People are enjoying the holiday and they wont take care the trading or investing. This is the good time to buy Yes, the cryptocurrency is a potential market for the investors. If you have enough skills and experience, let spend all your saving in here. you will get profit soon Yup. You cant spend $10000 or $100000 in the market when you do not have anything. You have to learn first. And the practice is the best way to learn. Let spend a small amount of money likes school fee. No. Do not tell the lie. Bitcoin price is very cheap now. I will hold until it reaches $30k in new year. Bitcoin is always the biggest coin in the world Yes, of course. The old year will pass. After the holiday, investors will come and pump the market. Bitcoin and ETH will hit new targets.  No. It made me lost about 30% my budget when panic sell. In next year, I will hodl and do not care anything. Do not tell the lie to me I do not care what excactly time to sell. I will calculate based on the history of that coin and build an own price. I think you also should do that.  If I were you, I will choose another portfolio. They are XRP, ETH, BCH, DASH and PKT. Let buy and hold about 3 years, they can help you become the millionaire Yes, the prediction is 10 dollar in 2020. So, you should buy it now and wait until it reaches that target. There are many financial corporation in Korea accept using Ripple technology for their service. i totally believe in Ripple future Yes, My altcoins are XRP and Stellar. Both of them are good coins with experience devs. I will hold in the end of 2018 haha.... I dont know. the manager control everything and they can do any thing they want. You are just a worker and you must accept Although ETH is really a potential coin and certainly, it will go up in the future, I do not think that ETH can reach $1000 in January, 2018. It is too soon and there is no good news support for this development There are many potential coins in the market now. Playkey is the 5th coin I wanna suggest to you. This project provides the platform where poor gamers can hire their PC to play strong game. It has mobilized successful. You can invest to it now and hold until it rises to $5 Of course no. They have different value in the market. People invest in ETH because they believe in Smart contract. Otherwise, Peole invest in Bitcoin because they just want earn money.  Your plan is very good. The market changes every day so you have to learn by yourself. that is a good way to improve your skill and you can get profit easily. actually, to choose a good coin you need much experience which you only get when trading. So, you have to practice every day to have much knowledge and experience Both of them are ok. It depends on your budget and favorite. If you wanna investing in Bitcoin you need a bigger fund. Otherwise, if you wanna find a stable growth, you can invest in ETH. Yes, I totally agree with you. Daily trading is a hard work belongs the experts who can works the hours in the laptop. It will make you crazy easily. So, i have choosen the investment is my strategy
If my friend or my relaitions dont believe in Bitcoin, I will show them by real profit. I think that if there is just one people love bitcoin, the demand will rise and the price also goes up. That is good for me. Yes, I totally agree with your view. I think that they wanna spend all time for their family in Christmas Eve and New year holiday. Therefore, they sell most their coins to get profit My life changes very much after i join into the crypto world. I have spent all my free time for it. I research, learn, read many things to have knowledge and information. I can earn money for my family. that is the most benefit To be honest, I dont care much about Bitcoin advantages. The most important for me is that it is a good coin with fast growth. Therefore, I can earn money when investing in it. That's all I totally agree with you and I think that Blockchain is the new innovation of the world. with this technology, people can solve many problems in the econony.  I do not think that Bitcoin will go down to $10k. $11k is the bottom. And it also cant reach $20k in the begining of 2018, at least the June, 2018 I think this is an effect of information that Litecoin Dev sold out all his coins. This makes the market red. But you should not be worry. In 2018, it will recover #JOINBitcointalk username: sandosForum rank: Full MemberPosts count: 205ETH address: 0x9bcf77521478b2644fc6cee19b9f7bdf7c104e6e I think the best way now for Bitcoin is holding. The prediction is $20,000 in 5 next years. I believe that will take place I think if you are a newcomer, you should start with a small budget such as 0.01 BTC. It helps you are more confident in trading and make a decision. If you are not good at trading skill or you cant learn it, you can choose another way to get BTC. You can join inro Bounty campaign of ICOs If you buy Bitcoin at $9000 or lower, you can sell it now to get profit. Or if you wanna join an adventure, you could continue holding it and wait until 2018. Yes, Because as you know, Bitcoin always have development trend in long-term. So, the best strategy is holding. I often set an prior interest rate target. To give the right number, I must research the market, the history of the coin carefully and this is so difficult Yes, I think you should consider trading as fun as a game. It will help you feel more comfortable and can give right decision.  I think that Genesis vision, Quantstamp, Bitcoin cash are the best coin to buy now. Certainly, I dont count Bitcoin.  I think you should look for a good teacher to teach you about trading. If not, you should choose Bitcoin to invest in long-term. That's a good strategy If Bitcoin dies, I dont think altcoin dies too. Because they are different. There is no reason for this Maybe they think that Gold is safer than Bitcoin. Because, as you know, Bitcoin can give you money, it also can take money to you if its price fall down. Actually, Bitcoin can be used for payment. But actually, I think that Bitcoin is a kind of asset investment likes Stock. 
I think trading is the best. As you know, Mining need too much electric energy while if you are good at trading, you can earn many Bitcoin without wasting energy You should buy Bitcoin now. Do not be wait. You will waste much profit which you will receive if you invest now Cold wallet is my way. It is not safe when you put Bitcoin in exchange. Hackers are more and more dangerous nowadays. You should not disappointed. Everything can start again. The most important is that what you have learned from your mistakes This is a lesson for you. With altcoins, you should trade, with Bitcoin, holding is the best choice.  I think it depends on what you are good at. Let trade and do anything you can earn money. Don't try what you are bad at. I think there is no risk when holding Bitcoin. In long term, It will go up, you should not be worried about it Before you make decision, you should ask some expert in this forum. They will help you. Don't panic sell In my view, I will spend 50% my salary for Bitcoin. Bitcoin always grow, therefore, I can believe I will earn money when investment. Certainly, Bitcoin always goes up in the long term. It is a future of cryptocurrency. There is no reasonable doubt about that. The loss is the normal thing in trading. You should not too disappointed about it. The most important thing is that what did you learn from the mistake? You should wait until Bitcoin drop again and buy. With Bitcoin, you will earn money certainly. If you ask me about investment for the future, my answer is alway Bitcoin. You will be never regret your choice. if you just have a small budget, I think you should choose cheap altcoins to trade. You both trade and learn. You can use your BTC to invest in tokens from ICO projects. They will help you get more profit if ICO succeed. Then you can sell tokens to buy BTC again. You can use your bitcoin to buy token from ICO. Bitclave is one of the best ICO I know. You access its website to research. Yes, Bitcoin is predicted to increase in long-term. Therefore, holding Bitcoin is a good choice. It depends on your expected rate of return. Before trading you should set a expected rate of return, when it reach that point, you have to sell immediately. Don't be greedy. Yes, that is a good advice. You have to be steadfast in your choice. Checking market each minute will make you lose your mind. I like Poloniex. I had used Bittrex already, but now I have stopped. It sometimes blocks user account without pre-notice. They don't respect users.
My strategy is simple, buy low and sell high. Bitcoin price now is an example. It is a suitable time to buy now.  Although Bitcoin can help you get much profit, it is very risky if put all the eggs in one basket. The maximum investment rate should be about 60%.  Although Bitcoin is a good coin. However, I don't think that Bitcoin can kill altcoins. Because each coin has own role in the economy. Bitcoin has own disadvantages and it can replace altcoins Bitclave is my advice for you. This is a nice project to invest. Here your link: https://www.bitclave.com/fr/ Yes, Trading is an unpredictable job. Therefore, you have to use your knowledge and skill to trade. I don't buy and sell base on trend. I trade base on my knowledge and experience. Therefore, I don't panic sell. Of course, I am usually disappointed about myself when I trade not well. But I'm just sad in few minutes before start a new trading. Coindesk, Cointelegraph and Reddit are my websites. I access them every day to get information. The soon information you have, the more profit you get. Let prepare a good knowledge before trading if not, you will be regret. That is my advice for newbies. Certainly, it will have a good future. Because there are many fans of Shiba dog in the world. They really love it and they will support Dogecoin. Dogecoin certainly has a good future. Because there are many people in the world love Shiba. They will hold Dogecoin. Bitclave is my advice for you. This is a good project to consider. Here your link: https://www.bitclave.com/en/ Receiving free coins from airdrop project. After that trade to earn ETH is the best way I would like to suggest you. Focusing on Ideas, Method, and Team. You will find out what the good project is. By the way, Bitclave is a nice project I want to introduce to you. Yes, I also hope that. But altcoins have decreased so much for long time. There are no signs that altcoins will recover soon. Yes, Most of the people take care ICOs like an investing environment. I think it's normal. You can see the stock market where many small investors just buy and sell based on the trend. They also don't understand clearly about the companies. Thank for your sharing! This website will help investors can get more information before investing.  In my view, ETH, Monero, Bitcoin cash, Komodo are suitable to buy now. They have recovered after falling down in few days. It is worth to buy now. There is no doubt that Bitcoin value is increasing every day. Therefore, there are more and more companies, shops, e-comerce platform accept Bitcoin for payment such as eBay, Expedia, eGifter, Virgin Galactic,... Certainly, Bitcoin will become an important payment facilities in near future. haha, with this growth speed for 10 months ago, I believe Bitcoin will hit $10,000 at the end of 2017.  
Bitcoin Silver hard fork is different Bitcoin Gold hard fork. We will not receive Bitcoin Silver free. Therefore, to ensure safety, I will put my bitcoin in an offline wallet. That's a good news for going up of Bitcoin. All people who invest in Bitcoin now are hoping that result. With altcoins, I don't think that they will recover soon.  I was not surprised. If you follow Bitcoin in a long-term, you can realize that Bitcoin's growth is a natural truth. With its advantages, people can solve many problems in the life. Investing all money to Bitcoin is a smart choice. Money in the bank just gets low interest. Investing in Bitcoin can get 30%-40% profit. In my opinion, There is no doubt that Bitcoin will go up to $10,000. Therefore, buying it now is a good choice. Although it sometimes decreases by bad news, in long-term, it still climb.  This is a really easy question. Why should not people hold Bitcoin? It price increases every day, the more long time you wait, the more profit you get.  Of course, Excepting Bitcoin, ICO is the worth thing to invest and get profit. Let spend the time to do research, you will find out a good ICO. Good luck. Actually, you have to spend much time to research about it. Focusing on the team, they are people who will make the profit to you. I don't know, maybe. Bitcoin and Ethereum are different roles. Ethereum will encourage the develops of other altcoins. Yes, you can consider buying some potential altcoins are ETH, Litecoin, Bitcoincash,...They will rise soon. Yes, I totally agree with you. Maybe, most ICOs now are scams, I think we should trust in the ICOs. They can make many things for society and the economy. Actually, Bitcoin is the best coin now if considering the price. It has reached over $7300. No coin can help investors get much profit likes Bitcoin.  I think most people invest in wrong ICOs because they lack information. They can't find any information except information from the devs. And investors have to trust them. I think you should choose: ETH, Bitcoincash, Bitconnect, Ripples, Neo,... They have recovered soon and they are worth to consider. Yes, I think it is so hard to point out which project is a scam. No one can confirm until the end of project. However, I think if there is a list of "doubting projects" this can help many investors to consider carefully.  I hear Bitmain support bitcoin gold so maybe it will over bitcoin cash.  maybe price will be around 500-700$ No. It's very easy to create these token. They dont have any value 500 for junior member as I calculator on round 12 I think swap is finished on 2/10 If anyone buy when it list on bittrex that is 2x ICO price.
Is this ICO finished? When we can buy it on exchange? anyone here know? Quite month. I dont see any good ICO for me. hope will have some good project like centra again If you mean if everybody sell all their coin. That will be the nightmare for people who join crypto world If anyone using paypal u will know result. Bitcoin is better than paypal. that's fact I dont think good ICO price will dump. look at SONN and BAT. It's almost x2 when list on bittrex My main invest is ETH, Litecoin and stellar. I think this is all good coin and price will go to moon soon remove ripple and buy litecoin about 20%. sell ur zcash 10% and bitcoin 10% and buy bitcoin cash about 29%. and wait till next years. ^_^ that my plan  dont known but this price too high.. this airdrop is to fud. we need track more time to understand this coin price   hope doesn't have exchange list it because miss the train. sorry for my selffish. maybe it's will have price in christmas....2030 is this over??? now what next. seem like I miss the train... 1000 full member is ez to complete... :v next round must be 1000 sr. or hero  Phone verification is awesome. Electronic bills are starting to be the norm in Sweden so not needing to scan a proof of residence rocks! Thanks.Although I wonder how this verification can be enough? There has to be a lot of anonymous phone contracts so knowing the customer posseses a number is not really proof of identity? I noticed some crazy volumes on mtgox on coinorama, but It doesnt look the same on clarkmoody:http://imgur.com/AXi1lMohttp://imgur.com/BEfdeTk I suspect that when switching users in windows 7 cgminer hangs. To p2pool it looks like it keeps on mining but with "100% local DOA" and the console interface is broken, nothing gets updated when I press Q or G etc.Is this a known bug? rLJC32nL9sbsCFwrKpuZrMAAUMnBc5UMk2 I can get 3-4 dead chickens around here for a bitcoin. Live ones I have no idea about!  I know, I know, randomness and humans don't go well.. but I've lost 15 out of 17 48% bets? That is actually not impossible, albeit not probable. And if so, woooh!  Isnt the tx size more important than the amount of BTC? Or maybe not.. I woulod like to see a graph of that, though. Tx size versus time to confirm. With my latest chrome (14.0.825.0 dev-m) scrolling and zooming is very iffy and only works about half the time. Maybe its time to finally stop using unstable chromes  You need a better password! I used some special characters in mine and it was pretty long... now I think I have forgotten it though! Doooh. 
Salts should include something unique for the site! Im not sure this is the case here, it would alleviate the problem with re-using password-hashes between many sites.  A rollback clearly does not restore prices, and it should not. There really isn't a "price" in a market like this, there is just the last trade, and there wont be any recent trades when they open. Its only showing me currency trades for some reason. Why does about always seem to say "-BETA" ? Is this a beta? Same thing with the previous version.  I believe some of this ransom was already payed? Hss anybody done any fuzz-testing? Both valid protocol and invalid stuff? I suspect you will find that with any substantial amount of coins, it will be much harder to get the same old, good, profit. You will have to take worse deals if you really want to move larger sums. Getting closer: http://code.google.com/p/bitcoinj/source/detail?r=89 Why is http://mtgoxlive.bco.in/orders and http://warpi.net/bitcoin/ so very different? Is http://mtgoxlive.bco.in/orders really re-synching with the full order depth or just relying on the websockets stream always, or is it just a matter of resolution?  So send USB sticks with the latest block every now and then  I had this idea about not removing brute-forcing but optimizing the algorithm since not all output bits are needed, so we backtrack and remove all superfluous calculations. But if its 64 rounds per hash and two hashes, I think the gain would be extremely small. And also maybe this optimization has already been done? Funny  Agreed. Well, I do like the animation on this one... Got a bug when trying to buy 10 btc at 8$, when I saw 7.23$ asks.https://gist.github.com/990477 Even if someone is manipulating the prices, if a few parties does this it will still stabilize prices, which is good?  Thats just awful. Would it ever even do any good? I cant imagine the JS hasrates to be any good... Why does this matter? Wouldnt the previous block hash still be different? I'm pretty sure the client only opens 8 connections normally? Yes, both are running 2 threads. Running either 3 or 4 on the i5 doesn't seem to get any increase. What up with retries when disconnected? At my work our wifi is very unstable, and this seems to mean that the miner always never runs. Is there some sort of exponential backoff?I get the "Error 80072ee2: Operation timed out" a lot. What are the timeouts set at?
I have a new laptop, and an older laptop. What surprised me was the old laptop being a tad faster. Its specs are:Inte Mobile Core 2 Duo (Penryn) T9300 @ 2.5Ghz (~5,7Mh/s)New one isInte Core i5 M430 @ 2.27 Ghz (~5,4Mh/s)Sure, the i5 is lower clocked but I thought it would easily be faster than the core 2. Why is that fine? Having them off-exchange is also "elitism", just another form of it, you'll need some time and knowledge instead. Heh, I know about _that_ project. Way too big for me, atm. But I will think about it  Well, I thought modern compilers just took that as a hint, and they don't always respect it. I could be wrong though. I do some android development in my spare time, both for fun and for money. I am a full-time java developer, too, if that matters.I would like to try make some BTC from Android development. Anything goes basically, but I will be less likely to take on big projects since I would like to be able to finish them properly.I would personally prefer hour-based billing, but that is a mess for the buyer, so I can do an estimate for your ideas and give a price in BTC. This is also why I don't like "too large chunks", its a risk for me if I underestimate the time to completion. Cant stop laughing. Worst. Deal. Ever. http://www.ubitex.org/ This post would have you earned you a tip from if this was witcoin! Love it. Why do people think this way? Trends can be sustained, but often they're not. By waiting with buying, you will be buying expensively! I had the impression someone was working on the client, albeit slowly. The problem seems to be the blockchain and RAM usage. Yeah, I am a developer and I was put off by the complexity of getting it up and running! May I ask what bank you have? Swedbank? I was just thinking that block-size should depend on some measurement of how much it taxes the network, just like difficulty is measuring how fast blocks can be found and corrects that rate.I have a hard time seeing how to objectively measure block-size impact (which is global!) in a similar way as mining? I don't see how the block size could ever be unlimited, I would think this is what actually costs money, big blocks? Transaction fees will naturally strive to optimize the block-size as a side-effect.Millions of spam transactions today is no different from millions of legit transactions tomorrow. If the blockchain cannot handle spam today, how could it handle large transaction flows? This should be able to get your location from your browser like google maps etc can. I don't think my swedish zip-code will do much good. That would be awesome! It also used to be visible here: http://www.thenewsh.com/~newsham/x/mtgox/Hope it comes back I am writing a bot for trading stocks, and I would never open-source that. Defeats the purpose imo =)There are actually some papers about trading and machine learning. I think a problem is if everyone runs a bot with the same algo, it will affect the results... and not work so well any more. Some adaptability and also originality is required. Helicopters (including multirotors) are not efficient at all. Same thing with real helis versus airplanes. Helicopters' range is fairly limited. Although its probably still good enough for, say, manhattan.Other than that, building good robots/rc stuff generally takes a _lot_ of time and a _lot_ of money. I don't see this idea happening for a couple of years at least.
67 incoming at the moment, and thats fairly normal. I'm fairly sure 16MB heap has been standard for some time. I think my magic had that, and its an old phone.Also, if youre on cyanogenmod you can change the heapsize. Correct, the right way is to force inclusion of more than one hash. Best site for bitcoin graphs, thats for sure. I never used it before, but I will know! Uh, 500w nominal. Good luck. "Oh shit, another cloud, box shut down!" This doesn't matter, you have to consider the fact that "owning" a whole lot of the network connections is fairly easy, and given that you can add that info yourself depending on where in the network the protocol commands came from. Might work if you do it yourself, split into multiple actions, every action done via Tor and different end-points. You do know that SELLING _after_ a crash would be extremely stupid?  I laughed out loud!You should post this on witcoin, I guess, and maybe expand on it. I feel most scaling-related discussions seems to gravitate toward the network needing "supernodes", maybe not in name but in practice anyway. Supernodes very efficiently spread data across the network, for one, and they make it much less likely we will have too many hops.The problem with these of course are trust, its easy to control the network if you control too much cpu-power or connections. There is channel API:http://code.google.com/appengine/docs/python/channel/overview.html 3 ms sounds like a long time, on what hardware is that? Yes, could be. Might be a chrome bug I guess, but as the page actually crashes I am a bit suspicious. This thing has an awesome memory leak in chrome 10:Goes for a few minutes then goes "ooh, snap!" I will pay for a video of this meetup! Im not so sure it was "very clear", but with some editing this could become a good technical video-introduction to bitcoin. I would love this but simply showing mtgox prices.  It says bitcoin, but hes talking about something entirely different.  Hmm, I got this exact same behaviour too. I also get this _every_ time when going to the betpoker site? Agreed. I really, really wish this was true. Not that I want to use the service *cough* but we need real services-for-btc! Yeah, we dont want to do what skype has done at least twice: huge bugs taking down their entire p2p network, due to a homogenous makeup of the code in the clients.
What are the drawbacks of shorter intervals? I dont see any, except maybe larger overhead in general because of more blocks, but that should be manageable. Tor requires end-to-end encryption to be safe against eavesdropping, and thats nothing new. When was this bruteforcing done? I have a weird (I think) transaction on my mt gox account:Code:When      Type      Description Delta BTC Delta USD Total BTC Total USD01/24/11 00:17 Payment Process  united     0  0     0      0 Reducing variability likely increases the chances of several miners finding solutions at the same time!Which might be bad. Thats a pretty cool idea. Too bad about the hw going unused for most of the time! Market prices are never fair, are they?  They're just... optimized.Anyway, is anyone continuing work on this even without the huge bounty? I would rather have a wallet. That remote is not very user-friendly. (Think your mom). I know the freenet people are discussing various performance bottlenecks in regard to sone and maybe freetalk. I think the same principles might apply to this. My god, this post is so disturbed and awesome at the same time! Awesome!  Christmas, people travelling and turning computers off? If you just allow any number of applications "on top" of bitcoin, isn't that a bit messy? Suddenly some guy says he invented this bitdns2 where all domains are available!Maybe make it a tad bit hard to add applications? I would live this over the US-centric calling system  How big is the wallet file?I think a very useful feature would be to somehow back it up to some google cloud service. I know docs now allows generic file uploads and 1GB is included from the start. I know not everyone _needs_ to even have a google account when you are using an android phone, but its likely 99.9% does. Oh, I sent ~37 btc quite a while ago.My wallet is empty at the moment after "difficulties" at getting liberty reserve. You're not alone, I guess, since you're not "supposed" to use // if your URI is not hierarchical. And I have to violently agree with this, don't use // for bitcoin-addresses unless they're domain-names! Posted the link in a swedish android-forum with a very short (and incomplete) swedish explanation. I would totally have a go at this if I wasn't currently in a coding frenzy with other stuff, partly android-related, and I know that if I stop now my interest in this will dwindle away  Wikipedia is very hard on notability these days. Better just let it be for a while, imo. So, someone want to compute wether amazon EC2 Cluster GPU instances would make you any money?These are $2.10 per hour. 
