rHjeAvjom3v21pBVtto91qQaaNW4xdcuYs Isnt IPv4 getting superseeded, you know by IPv6.Whats stopping IPv6 getting superseeded.The currency can only be backed by pure math to be futureproof. congrats, you win the internet. If you have more in there than you are willing to lose, you're doing it wrong. Hey, Great news about getting a Security Audit.Umm, just dont give them "Read-only" access to our passwords, it doesn't end well.  Failed probably the wrong word. Maybe "decided against".Either way, I don't see many of them around. So I use a client that has been patched to send coins to another address in my wallet periodically. There is no way anyone but me can know all the addresses in my possession, they are anonymous.The way I see it, yes deflationary currency's have failed in the past, but it was a different, slower world. Bitcoin is a great experiment in how such a system would work in a Global Market, with a huge diversity of participants trading in real time.Yes, there is a chance that the lessons of the past may hold true, but the opportunity to help give Bitcoin a chance to succeed is way too good to pass up. (And we're having some laughs along the way.) The 400k BTC was just Mt. Gox moving the coin from the Exchange Site to a backend server to protect them, nothin' sus.Only about 3000 BTC were removed from MT. Gox by the hacker, so I think Mt. Gox can wear that. Woohoo, 78.I remember it like yesterday, I bought in with Paypal, it doubled in a couple of days, sold half and withdrew using paypal and have sat on the rest and waited ever since. Back when bitcoin was fun, now it is just stressful. The value isn't in the Mining, its in the users.I think it's the same as Desktop Operating Systems. Yes, Linux is probably better than Windows, technically, but the users, and therefore the developers (and vise versa.) just aren't there.Bitcoin2 will appear, but it will need significant advantages over bitcoin to gain value, and even then it will take many years longer to reach the limited success that Bitcoin has seen so far, because the idea is no longer new, and likely early adopter will be already fully vested in bitcoin. Hmm, probably the same reason the banks and governments aren't jumping into bitcoin. I for one welcome a fellow Australian, although I'm only getting a pissy 5.5%.Where bouts are you, I'm down in Sunny Victoria. Here's Gavin talking to ABC Radio's excellent PM Show in Australia.http://www.abc.net.au/pm/content/2011/s3240179.htm 14c, got nervous and sold at 26c. (I you wouldnt believe how happy I was at the time, I made $50!)Bought back in at 76c and $1.76 a few days later. (And i'm holding on for grim life, although the last 12 hours shake the old confidence.) Are  you  a  poorly  coded  bot   that  generates  random  questions   and  has  a glitch  that  makes  double  spaces   ?? +1 So awesome. Bitcoins aren't acquired, they are earned.How do you earn them?1. Mine. (Boring.)2. Sell something useful to someone for bitcoin.3. Exchange. (mtgox.com et al.)Just because the internet is all about instant gratification, doen't mean bitcoin is. Unfortunately for we humans we need to earn money by participating in an economy, just is in real life. (Dont know about you, but when I was born, some stranger didn't just walk up and hand me a fiver, it took a while.) Wow, 1000 posts and you still cant spot saracsm. What a way to waste your 1000th post, you could have included a balloon and some cake clip-art.On topic, go miners go! I hope for your sake this is just a typo. You are a freak! Hope you didnt spend that 50BTC I sent you in feb too quickly, you would have made more off me than my "real" financial advisor, lol. Yeah, a P2P Facebook alternative would be awesome. That way if you add 600 people you don't even know, you deserve the sucky perfomance.Its been discussed here before about having a WOT enabled client, this project could well provide the framework.
After having a play with this for a while, I have to say I'm really impressed. It's not something I'd use, but some if the ideas here are great, and I think Bitcoin Dev's should really get into the guts of the code and learn a bit about what they are doing.1. This app is skewed toward Dark-File sharing between friends. Not something we would be very interested in.2. I has a really good GUI implementation of what a Web-of-Trust should be like. There are wizards for the PGP side of it, im a PGP n00b and bluffed my way though easy.3. Interesting formation of mesh network. Each time you import a 'friend' you also import their network settings to get you initial connection, but then there is also a DHT as well. So rather than bootstrapping from an IRC network which could be compromised, you bootstrap through your WOT.4. It's buggy, well at least the GUI doesnt always respond the way you expect, I had to keep going back a forth to make it refresh. A few uncoded buttons here and there too.All-in-all, I have to say this is a pretty good implementation of serverless design with good security built in.If anyone else want to test it with me PM for my PGP key Hi Guys,Just stumbled on this:http://retroshare.sourceforge.net/index.htmlIt's Paranoid, Secure, Distributed and Open Source, so naturally I thought of you.I have only just downloaded it, but it appears to have a few features that would suit out cummunity.Does Chat (IRC Alt); Forums (Remember when this one went down?), and perhaps it is also a Web-of-Trust.If there are any takers to test it out, here is my cert to start forming a group on there.EDIT: Removed PGP Key. Spelling. I would have thought both ways are correct, given the right context.If I bought at $0.5 and sold at $1, I would agree and say I made 100% profit.But if I was observing the price, I would agree with S3052 and say that $1.5 is 300% of the value of $0.5, so therefore a 300% rise.Why? In the first case you are calculating the % of profit, in the second you are calculating the % change in value.I'm probably wrong, but it seems a very natural intuitive way to do it. Calculating a profit % seems like a no no when we are observing trends. Break even so far, lots of fun to be had with this. Welcome stzee, others may disagree, but the more humor and sarcasm in this board the better IMHO. Keep up the good work, cant believe so many took the bait. Whoa, big tangent. Good point, well made, but it's been made a 100 times, and you're preaching to the choir on this board.Anyways, you are distracting people from how awesome XKCD is, and that is NOT ON! Without question you should use the Home Edition of Easeus Partition Manager.http://www.partition-tool.com/download.htmCheers Yeah wee are merely talking about disasters, not catastrophic failure of the planet. But maybe we could raise a bouty to place a node on the moon, for extra redundancy, lol.That said solar flares could be a risk, oh and the reversal of our poles. http://www.physics.org/facts/frog-magnetic-field.asp But im not sure is these will damage undersea cables.Anyway, my point is that I think that Bitcoin will be great against localised disaster, and hyperinflation. As we watch in horror yet another devastating earthquake in a developed nation, and cant help thinking how does this relate to bitcoin?What happens to your hard earned during a disaster in a bitcoin world?My thoughts on the pro-side:1. We'll likely see the Yen drop because of this earthquake, but Bitcoin will not. (New Zealand Dollars have slid since their earthquake for instance.)2. The fully p2p system means that while mining might slow up, the system is in no way permanently damaged, and will not miss a beat for the rest of the world.On the con side:1. Good luck buying yourself Mocha Latte in Downtown Disasterville using Bitcoin without any cell coverage or internet. (Although you'll probably struggle to find a shop that is open.)My thoughts are with the Japanese in this hard time.Any other thoughts coinheads?  I left my cpu miner (E8500) going in january by accident, after not generating anything since October. I got 2 blocks in 6 days!You couldn't even calculate the luck involved in doing that, so I quit while i was 'ahead'.My advice, cut your loss. Yes, thats true. But don't they deserve it?After all, these people are the ones that:1. Came up with the idea.2. Implemented it.3. Maintained it.4. Promoted it.They are IMO, to be thanked, not criticized. It also should be remembered that despite the high value of BTC so far, there is still nothing practical they can be used for day-to-day, so while it appears these guys are hoarding, they are actually sustaining the value of bitcoin by not dumping their coins on the market, and waiting to spend coin on something useful, like helicopters. Nah, I dont think its hard to imagine a cross compatible protocol with IPv4, it just would have needed to be implemented top-down, assigning "IPvX" a huge subnet of availabe IPv4 addresses, with ISP's providing transparent bridging. Eventually enough Devices would be in the new subnet and the Ipv4 bridging can be cut and the rest of the new address space opened up.Anyway the moment is past, IPv6 is what we got, so any type of seemless migration is impossible. I think that when they sat down and tried to figure out a neat way to do this they quickly realised that legacy support=more code=more bugs=more exploits and less reliability.IPv6 was a chance to re-imagine the internet all over again. (And lets face it, the internet is still in it infancy, we don't even have a full set of working browsers yes. ), and they have done everything they can to make sure these problems don't come up again. Agree wholeheartedly.Same applies for Mining Pools. e.g; Yes compute4cash takes a bigger margin, but they also offer a simpler experience to that of say deepbit.net (Especially for newcomers.)It not up to us to make the decision which is better for everyone, its the markets. I think that its greatest potential it as a medium for international transfers.For example, at the moment something like 60% of international trransfers are in USD.See for a good article from earlier this week: http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703313304576132170181013248.html?mod=WSJ_hp_mostpop_readUsing Bitcoin as a "global reserve" currency makes sense, because no govt can control it. And whiles it nice to think that competition coming from the Euro and perhaps the Yuan in the future will remove the risk to a certain degree, where does that leave Africa, Sth America and importantly India? just chuck some www's on the front of that puppy and you wont have to bother with flushing. I've read that their collapse was caused by a Housing Construciton Bubble (1 in 4 irish worked in Construction at it's height.), The Govt let Developers and Banker run wild, and now there are as many as 300,000 unoccupied homes.Now their saying that yet another generation of irish are jumping ship for greener pastures, but this time they're heading for Australia, instead of New York like they did in the 1800's.This is great for me, cause they are always great to drink with. lol, i hope this takes on, i'll load up when it hits 7c Oh I get it now, when you made your first post on this forum, I had a 1 in 82 chance of figuring out that you are a pain in the a...you know.But by giving you the benefit of the doubt for the next 80 posts and reserving my judgement I had a 81 in 82 chance of figuring it out.We hate you, in the most endearing way.   There is no way he can predict things like Slashdot effect etc. But its amazing how accurate he has been for such a small economy.
