I pledge BTC 50 Congrats, you got the last offer. Everybody thanks for participating; be sure to check out http://witcoin.com/ as it has gained many new features since the last couple days! @Nycromancer: with only 1 forum post you don't qualify, sorry.@ptd: paid! beep you have been boop paid! Paid! (20 post requirement waived because of IRC presence) Okay, I have only 4 witcoin gifts left (0.50 BTC each). Help me get rid of them. If there is a Bitcoin group on LinkedIn, joining it would be a good first step. I think you are running into some usability issues; to withdraw you need to configure your bitcoin address on your profiles page. Once that is done you can go to 'witdraw' and enter the amount you want to withdraw. successfully sent 0.50 witcoins to ptmhdThanks for your other comments and bug reports, please post them on http://meta.witcoin.com/ if you haven't done so already. Although I am not a developer of the site, just an advocate, let me try to quickly address them based on my understanding:1) Hotlinking images doesn't work: sounds like a bug; please report on meta! (I hear that noagendamarket also donates 0.02 to bugreporters)2) Editing cost is a feature, but should be documented / explained somewhere better; please report on meta.3) Your profile page only shows new posts, it doesn't include comments (yet). Would be nice to have.4) Your avatar comes from gravatar.com; which is based on the email address linked to your account. You can change it on gravatar.com. successfully sent 0.50 witcoins to talkinrock there you go; successfully sent 0.50 witcoins to ribuck successfully sent 0.50 witcoins to 8bit @anita: sorry, you don't qualify.@dishwara: Paid! Thanks Kiv, you got paid! successfully sent 0.50 witcoins to witanarchy Since you hang out in the #witcoin IRC channel I'll waiver the 10 post rule  Ha! No worries  Please leave your feedback on http://meta.witcoin.com/ chris, if you go to your profiles page; there is a link called 'witdraw' -> http://witcoin.com/witdraw Sir, you made it! successfully sent 0.50 witcoins to Darrell
