A year or two mtgox appearantly can't withdraw to US banks anymore and since then no withdrawls or even additions I think.And now I go log on MtGox after not being on it for years and it says to deposit or withdraw, it demands a bunch of Weird-Stalker-Sh*t™.  I don't understand any of it, except they demand to stalk me.Is there no easier way to do this anymore? I've heard it said before for years, but it seems when stocks go up bitcoins do and when stocks go down bitcoins do.Stocks were rising with bitcoin prices.  When they rose bitcoins did and when they fell bitcoins did. http://presstv.com/usdetail/298479.html  That article is about how stocks are crashing bad.I personally hate how bitcoin prices jump around like crazy.  It makes it really not useful as a currency.I remember people kept saying there's a manipulator of bitcoin prices, and well they're synched to stock prices, which are manipulated by powerful bankers, such as the Rothschild family.Hmm gold fell too http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2013/04/15/golds-plunge-shakes-confidence-in-a-haven/ but that's not always synched to bitcoins, whereas the stock market tends to be. Read this: http://whiteelephantmedia.com/PayPal like the mafia extorted half a million dollars from this company and then after getting it, froze their account and stole all their money.  Something like one million dollars.You could get a merchant account, but such processor could freeze your account.  Tradehill had their payment processor steal $100,000 this way.The only real way for dealing with payments is bitcoins! http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bavou_SEj1E This is the stupidest article ever.It's basically an ad for wepay.com which is nothing but another ordinary online payment system with fees rather high compared to its competition.They then act like PayPal is ever a good choice for any donations.  PayPal *always* will freeze an account that gets a lot of donations.  It has done this since it started.Then it advertises banksimple.com, which is nothing but another website with online bank accounts with no fees, except it's not even set up and worse you can only have one bank account with it when the others let you have as many as you want.  The only unique thing is it claims no overdraft fees, but it's not ready, and probably will only waive overdraft fees like the other cheap ones do where you need an overdraft line of credit.Then it criticizes bitcoin and suggests we use a bitcoin alternative. There's some bitcoin <--> cash services not using banks. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/science-news/8857154/Worlds-most-powerful-laser-to-tear-apart-the-vacuum-of-space.htmlThey spent $200,000,000 because they didn't bother reading http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two-photon_physics and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matter_creationWhen you bombard photons, it creates fermions. Shows how lousy evolution is.http://www.digitaltrends.com/cool-tech/mit-researchers-develop-a-technique-to-kill-a-wide-range-of-deadly-viruses/ Stephen Hawking converted to Islam, and now a Muslim!http://www.youtube.com/embed/VHKi0C46dacTo all Who Hate muslims Must Watchhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SoRiYOplcwY Obama is only part black.  All the US presidents have had the same ancestry.  David Icke has details of it somewhere on the internet. If they buy bitcoins, they'll lose 1/4th of their money, sadly.  If they bought a little in bitcoins, it might be 1/2 or 1/3, but they'll probably buy large amounts of coins at once. If you want it to go up, then wait for it to crash to the  bottom and once all the people who want to sell did, then finally start  buying and buying and buying.  In 5-10 years, it should reach $100 per coin at some point so it makes sense as a long term investment if you have money to invest long term. The whole point of the forum is riff raff only. He should have a vlog and each day vlog for a minute or two about being The Manipulator.  I would watch it. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZPWH5TlbloU The Federal Reserve and Big Banks are the same thing.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZPWH5TlbloU I've seen cartoons saying this before. People actually post on that forum?  And pay to?  WHY??? Here's the precedents where Freeman have failed in the United States. http://www.adl.org/mwd/suss1.asp I want him to post as The Manipulator and answer daily questions.
He probably has a million coins.  He can't sell them all without making the price drop 80%. I think he's given up.  He's just following trends. Well it still is lingering around $3.  Err.  well it lingered lower than I thought but still lingered.  Typically from the end of the month through about the first two weeks in the month is when the price drops.  I also think the end of November will be the very bottom because a month before the 2012 change, people will buy coins anticipating the change.Of course I don't have any spare money to invest so I am more open to predict stuff since if I'm wrong, I don't lose anything.  I probably won't have money till when the price is back up to $10 or even $20 then I buy coins unfortunately at a high rate. I found legal precedents that freeman arguments don't work in court.  http://www.adl.org/mwd/suss1.asp You feared rape? I watch all these freeman videos on the internet.  Freeman are using their own unique legal theories that vary from one to the other.  And they're just words.  What matters is whether a judge will back them up.  If you can get a legal precedent than the judge will have to back it up, but they don't do that.  They just interpret the law themselves and do things like interpreting "understand" as "stand under" which the court doesn't do.Freemen would do better forming political parties and electing politicians that serve their interests.  Also they need to form legal assistance groups to find out what actually works in court, it's not right or wrong, it's what you can get the judges to agree with. Bind,There's laws and rules.Then there's what the courts will actually agree to.Those are two different things.  You need to get a high court to rule in favor of freeman philosophy so a legal precedent can be used.Oh and see this thread.  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=49576  First video is very funny. One more http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XmXIpSxoALw Okay I finally found an explanation of these people http://rationalwiki.org/wiki/Freeman_on_the_landAlso another funny video http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rtkdDMSXMmc http://www.examiner.com/skepticism-in-denver/the-freeman-on-the-land-myth-debunkedhttp://forum.theuklibertarian.com/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=70http://www.adl.org/PresRele/Militi_71/3074-71.asphttp://forum.worldfreemansociety.org/http://news.infoshop.org/article.php?story=20111022freeman It's part of the Freeman movement.  http://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1B289953BD4AE10  It's something in Canada and the UK where they discovered statutory law only applies to employees of the government and cases where the government can make people act as employees like if they get a government ID. Unless it's a large ass amount. I think it might be 'cause the Gox  bank accounts EU are frozen.This is why you shouldn't use banks people.  Bitcoins and cash only!Gox also should've kept its money in Dwolla instead.  Dwolla has frozen accounts  but they're not as bad as PayPal or banks. I heard people use these bidwalls sellwalls to catch swings so if they are hammered, their tradebots remove and change them.I'm surprised it dropped again.  I still suspect that the lower it falls, the higher it'll swing up. The Manipulator, dude.Oh well, I guess it's time to PANIC SELL!!!!!Bidwalls usually get cancelled when hit. Yeah I don't think it'll crash either.  It should stay around $3 and slowly stagnate/climb. Are there any alternates beyond namecoin that don't end up being scams? It started dropping at the end of September.  It gradually went down.  It lasted longer than normal, but it still followed the pattern. You need your wallet's data on paper somewhere in case of some EMP attack (2012 approaches fellas!) you can put it back in with a hex editor.  I know this sounds silly, but it's a good extra way to back it up. Since either July or August it crashes since the start of each month.  I made a thread about it speculating why and people were all no, you're wrong.  But it keeps doing that.  I much later made a thread going "how come people only hack sites at the start of the month when the price is bound to go down?" and nobody knew.The other proofs I posted earlier in this thread.Oh and these line graphs are wrong.
It crashes around the end and start of a month.And 2012 will make the price rise, but people speculate so they'll buy in early in December.  That's pretty much the future. I still think it's going to stagnate around $3 for a week or more and slowly rise before a big crash at the end of November. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CuyOBVTnoLQ I think it's going to hang around $3 for a week or two, then go up to $4 briefly in November, then gradually crash really really low like slightly below $1. bitcoin7.com has just this little text that they've been hacked and are slowly returning coins and money back to people.What if MtGox suddenly has that and it got hacked big and is shutting down.  What would happen to bitcoins? 1) Sell now before it drops again?2) Hold on and wait for it to rise more?Usually when I do #2, it turns out everyone has done #1 and the price tanked lower than when I bought it.  Sometimes it will even linger around where I bought it at and then I go, "no it will go back up" and then it goes even lower than I bought it and so I just go and sell before it drops lower and well I did that last time and I'm glad because that's when it dropped to the $2 range.  But I'm waiting till the end of November to buy coins because that's the bottom before it rises in December and 2012. It should.  Make online games that are item based where you have to treadmill for items and gold.  Then have a system where they buy and sell virtual items, real estate, and characters with bitcoins.  The more it is used for commerce, the more buffers keep the Gox stuff from controlling the price. Thought so.  $2 seemed still way too low.  Next month will be lower than $2 I suspect.I don't know what it will rally to now. http://www.prisonplanet.com/senator-tsa-forced-me-to-go-through-body-scanner.html So has anyone had this happen to them yet?Looking at recent activity, it is slowly climbing back up.  I still think it'll hit its lowest at the end of November. It'll get caught up in the whole day trading of bitcoin and you need something super popular to stabilize the price.  If Diablo 3 had decided to use only bitcoin instead of only PayPal, then that would've done it.Hmmm... considering your avatar is a furry, perhaps you should play on that.  The ideal furry place is where they can roleplay, yiff, and then do really disturbing & bizarre yiff stuff, and then they can leave the world and claim they merely like the art and only 1% of furries are into yiff and they're just a dignified furry not into that. Basically, it's the same thing keeping people from pissing and crapping all over where they live and eat so their home is full of waste.The curious thing is mice and some other little critters do that.  Mice find food and then eat a little bit and then crap huge volumes, more than they even ate.  Anyone who has had them invade your home knows this.So it's basically this. http://unfollowingjesus.com/files/2011/04/payback.jpg I researched it and I read it's just a fraud thing con artists promote.  Anyone know??? Thanks for the info.  By the way, the additional footage made me very dizzy watching.  Shakey camera work. I've noticed some times after a long drop, it'll surge and I'm thinking this is why.  Like once it surged from $5 to $7 for 30 minutes and I think what happened was someone bought a little and then it forced all the shorts to have to buy it back and they all did it at once. I heard if it rises to a certain point, you automatically lose and must just by the coins or something to that effect. It's  been rallying up today. Is it real or fake?http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5B2t68yoYy8 hehe
I've made a thread about this before.  I can't find it now.But like I said in this one, he will make it to restore honor to his family or something Japanese. I am on the 5th video.  This is some kind of legal trickery where Canada's legal system is based on trust law and if you refuse to identify by your name and use some title, then it breaks. There was a smart phone payment system in the speculation forum.  But it looks cumbersome. Is that your YouTube channel?  All of Part 1 is unlisted.  The other parts are listed.I found how to watch them in order http://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1B289953BD4AE100 I know the founder of Ixcoin reworked Satoshi's name into Nasakioto something and made a Japanese face.So I'm thinking the real big alternative will be super Japanese.  The person who founds the cryptocurrency that replaces bitcoins will have these traits:skilled with a katana and shurikenpromise seppuku should his idea failbe skilled in kanchobe able to control his chakra (Naruto) enough to walk up trees, walk on water, and perform the rasenganrobots?he will have some annoying tic like constantly saying (spelled phonetically not in romaji) "so dess neh?" after every sentencehe will have european skin and blue hair like an anime character but fully Japaneseyour coin wallet won't be called a wallet.  It will have picture of a frog and be called "gamma chan"he will know very little English because that's hardcore Japanesehe will be a manga artistHe will never speak casual Japanese no matter what.  His Japanese will be extremely formal.  He will constantly say "hai!" very loudly.And most important of all, he will not make this cryptocurrency for money.  He will make it purely for honor, particularly to his family.  His dad may be all, "Why don't you go outside, make friends, meet a girl?"  And he'll say, "But honorable father, I am too shy.  Much apologies.  However I vow to make the best cryptocurrency ever so my name will be remembered."  And after he makes it, it'll be like when Sasuke shows his father his fireball technique.  His father will just turn and walk away and then give a sutble attaboy letting him know he's proud! I didn't say buy.  I just noticed it rallied 10 cents.However high it gets later this month, it'll crash further the next.December, I think it may rally big in anticipation of the 2012 change. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YtYdjbpBk6A Hmm it's rallying again! If it's actually 777 people and then someone sells 333 coins into it, how does Gox divy up who bought coins and who did not? Why doesn't he just let it fall to nothing and scoop it up for cheap?  It eventually will climb back up in a few years anyway.  Why does he want to catch a falling knife? Right now at $2, there's a $90,000 buywall.  What happens if the rich guy or two cancels it?   Freefall.....? I gotta wonder, don't bots just follow the swings so as the price steadily drops, you end up with more bitcoins but less USD$ worth of bitcoins? That's true.  When it hits bottom it tends to either:1) Stagnate for a long time before rallying big2) Rally up and then a mere 20 cents later some asshole will dump $50,000 worth of coins to force it back down and it'll crash even moreSo all those miners and early adopters who didn't sell, didn't sell, etc. now when it's gone to $2 are all "Okay perfect time to sell!"  And when it goes below $1, they'll think it's an even better time to sell.  They should've sold at $10. It'll probably crash till a month before 2012, then rally. Anyone who wants to launder is either going to do multiple accounts or send fake documents.  Most people who sell on eBay have multiple unlinked eBay and PayPal accounts and when PayPal randoms funds for documents, they send fake ones.  So this has been going on for a long time. It's stopped stagnating and gotten very low.But I wouldn't buy until it gets to $1. No, its Jurasic Park + Lost. I was hoping somebody here could tell, but so far no one seems to. Yes when it crashes big, people are panic selling like this month. Here is the video.  It says it is from 1983.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MZzJGM661D0Here is mentioned on the news:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uYrsjYHHMFUSo is this legit proof or is it a hoax?
So what do you think The Manipulator is going to do now with the crash to $2?  Will he buy?  Will he wait? Is this certain?  I asked in the technical forum once and while I don't understand any of it, it sounded like it didn't matter and the hash rate would have the same security. So those things can't bring good luck like all the genie rings sold on the metaphysical category of eBay? ElectricMucus, I get bearish when it stagnates.  If it was stable, it would move a bit around a range, but move.  Stagnating means lack of interest in the coins.Right now at such an extreme low it looks like it's just about to surge high.  I may be wrong and it may crash to $1, but it looks like it's going to go up big.  It may take a month.  It may take till next Spring, but it's near the sweet bottom. Yes but we don't have unlimited money to buy all the coins being dumped. I updated the poll and you can change your votes whenever. I think it will be determined by how much the average miner spends: hardware (factoring in free) + electricity (factoring in free).  Then take a dollare value based on that.  Then cut it in half for a good buy in point.Because there's a good chance miners won't sell for half what they paid to mine, they'll hold onto the coins.  And cutting it in half is because of early adopters who paid less to mine. It is very close to the bottom!  What we need to figure out is where the bottom price is. Cluster2k, that's true.  The price is collapsing and it will eventually rise again like the phoenix. The problem is, it never stabilizes, it only stagnates somewhere before a big jump.Stable would be like if it always will jump back to $10 if you wait.  So then when it goes below you know it's a good time to buy and when it goes above you know it's a good time to sell.But nope.  Nobody knows where it will go and when it stops moving, it just stagnates and you know it eventually will move somewhere bad--either bad for buyers or bad for sellers. The description said they're cursed.  So that's just advertising?And are they made of bone?  You sometimes suggest it but you also say you can't export it out of Greenland so it sounds like a no. It just seems unnaturally low here, like it's bound to go back up to $5.  It may take time for it to happen though.  It may fall more first, but it just seems so unnaturally low here.  I wish I wasn't broke or I'd buy a lot. By law, as long as they don't do anything illegal, they can protest forever. Question is: Where is the bottom? Both Terra Nova (TV series) and LisaNova (YouTube channel) are highly popular.  Both are also rather mediocre.  (I think Terra Nova could've had a better plot and Lisa Nova's comedy got dull.)Anyway, similar names so I am making a poll.  Vote please! Didn't rally  I just like the idea that they're all Reptilians http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AcAbLZyedTo See this meme http://www.google.com/search?tbm=isch&hl=en&source=hp&biw=&bih=&q=Where+is+your+god+now%3F&btnG=Search+Images&gbv=1Then...$2/coin!WHERE IS YOUR MANIPULATOR NOW? Most people won't put up with that.  Right now bitcoins are worth $2 each.  They may soon be worth less than $1.  It's ridiculous that you want to buy something with bitcoins and then can only withdraw soon to be about $30 from your account.  Sure rich speculators may do this, but the average guy buying stuff with bitcoins just simply will go "jeez what a joke!" and not use bitcoins.  And so the prices will continue to fall.And the Gox stuff does not stop money laundering since a launderer will just open multiple accounts. I'm glad I got out last month.  I do have 0.01 BC sitting in my wallet but that's all I have.
At some point it will be back up to $30 again, but it'll take at least a year. You can pull it out in bitcoins for about $350.  You can pull it out in cash for $1000 or about 300 bitcoins equivalent.  So you can pull more out in cash.  Gox should let people pull more out in bitcoins so the money stays in bitcoins. Do you think gox will keep it 100 BC daily withdraw limit as the value of bitcoins plumets to $2?  Only $200 in coins can be withdrawn daily. Usually once it raises a mere 20 cents, someone dumps all their bitcoins going "Well at least I made a small profit" and this makes the price crash.  Hopefully it won't happen this time. The price is set in the most ridiculous manner.  MtGox which is like 1% or 10% or something of all bitcoin trading sets the price for the other 99% or 90%. I think it's a good time to buy right now.  I doubt it will be this cheap again! I think after Columbus Day, it'll reach $5 again. Rally! Yes we have.  Now is the time to buy! And if bitcoin7 had not mentioned the hack, then the price would've remained about $5. I know people have said the person running bitcoin7 was shady.  But he had very little buy and sell orders on his site so he probably didn't have much money and coins to take. I think Gox was hacked mid-June, but other than that it's always been hacks that occur at the start of the month when the price typically drops by several dollars.  Pretty weird.  The hackers go, "The price drops several bucks at the start of each month so let's only do our hacking right before then so there's a pattern."Bitcoin7 though had hardly any userbase at the time it was hacked.  I guess the site owner had a fat wallet from all his transaction fees.  Kind of stupid to leave all your wallets accessible online.  Your backups should be manual. L Ron Hubbard said Mohammed invented Islam merely to bring new trade to his city. Yahweh does not believe he has a creator, therefore he is an atheist. Trolls, the bitcoin price did crash a day later. Bitcoin7's userbase has been dwindling for months.  I'm glad I stopped using them. It won't happen exactly.  No, people speculate so it will happen a month beforehand.  Then when it takes place the price will hardly change at all. I revised my theory.  Bitcoins just simply always does something bad.Typically:1) Stagnates.  Bad for investors.2) Slowly drops.3) Jumps a huge amount when you're not expecting it screwing over everyone who sold.  Then it sits there a long time before it crashes back down.4) Drops and then when you wait for it to go back up, it sits there forever.5) Rallies big but once it goes up 20 cents, then some a-hole sells 20K coins to force it back down So yesterday I thought, I bet Steve Jobs's death will collapse the price of Apple stock and maybe even the price of bitcoins.Apple is down 3.70 (0.98%)Bitcoins have just collapsed.  There's no sizeable buywall until 4.48.  Lows are 4.50 today.  I didn't think it really would collapse bitcoins that much. 5 * 0.15 = 0.75The most wild of the swings were 5.13 and 4.78.  5.13-4.78 = 0.35However, you cannot count the wild swings because they last moments and half the time Gox doesn't fill out people's orders and so you can only count on what the price been most of the time, which has been from 4.86 through 4.96.  That's about 1% movement a dayIf this is too technical, look at http://mtgoxlive.com/orders?volumeonDoes it look like a tornado going all the way up?In the last 96 hours it has been basically around 4.90 and not moving except one attempt at a rally that the manipulator crushed so he could buy cheap coins.  (4.90ish is a good low price to buy them the way things are going).Basically the price has stagnated.  This is bad for speculators because if it swung from 5.00 to 6.00 every day and back and forth it would be far more stable than jumping somewhere and stagnating.  You could be all "Oh it will be back to X amount in a day so no worries, I can price my products based on this."Instead it jumps, then it stagnates for days, then it jumps and stagnates.
The Manipulator is slowly buying cheap coins.  When he is done, he will force it back up.  It rallied last night before it was finished and he forced it down, but not below the stagnation area because he doesn't want to crash the price, just keep it here till he's done. Technomage,I said it before.  It's at a great low to buy but it will stagnate here for a very long time before it finally goes up to 5.50ish and stagnates there.Once it rose to 5.10, The Manipulator sold 10,000 coins to force it back down.  Any real investor would've just waited for 5.50 or 6 knowing if it dips, it's still a low point they bought at so no worries. It takes more than 10K to manipulate the price over the course of a year.  You have to increase your bounty. You are all forgetting the withdraw limits.  MtGox and similar have 100BC a day (bitcoin7 has 50BC a day and I think one has 500BC a day).  MtGox and most have $1000 a day with $10,000 max a monthLet's say you have 20,000 bitcoins that you want to sell right now and you don't care how low the price goes.1) You make accounts with each trading site.2) You make a dwolla account and confirm it to your bank account.3) You transfer in enough coins to make it worth $1000 without going over, which at most prices is 180 coins.4) Then you sell on each site.5) Then you withdraw the coins.6) Then you withdraw dwolla to your bank account.Okay now you got more coins.7) Change your IP address.  This takes 2 minutes.8) Repeat step 1.  Do step 2 but with a fake name and phone # and a different bank account (keep your real first and last name).  Do steps 3-6.9) Repeat step 7 and 8 about ten more times to get 20,000 coins sold and transferred out.  You might run out of bank accounts so you will either have to open new ones or wait till the next day and likely you will just end up waiting.The result is it takes a long time so no one is going to sell 20,000 at once to cash out for use. @iamzillI hear on other forums people complaining that they can't buy bitcoins with a credit card and how difficult it is.  And I hear on this one that people are able to make money doing it and don't get that many ripoffs if they only sell one coin at a time. David Icke predicted these.* 2012 will be an illusion and a trick.  2016 or so will be the real year* There will be a World War 3 caused by the same people who then offer a solution to the war.  The solution will be a one world government.* The one world government will strip individual liberties away. I've thought of that before, and basically he'd need a twitter account for it. If you want to sell lots of coins, you do it slowly while the market is high.  If you want to buy lots of coins you do it slowly while the market is low.  You don't put in a big order to move the price till you get them at your ideal price. It's not the typical market influence.  It's something with the bots, how they worship any change in price no matter what it is.  The price is set it seems by large orders on MtGox and then the bots that follow them, not by real demand.Step 1: The Manipulator buys or sells 10,000 coins.Step 2: Everyone fixates on the changed price despite that it's too low or too high.Step 3: Price stagnates while The Manipulator buys or sells 100,000 coins (yes 10x as much) at the new price.Step 4: The Manipulator is done so he returns to step one.Step 5: ???Step 6: Profit! @iamzillThey sell bitcoins on eBay for twice the price they normally are.  But that's at the risk of selling them via PayPal. Well some businesses only accept cash and sell products/services that are expensive.  And if you don't want to carry lots of cash that could get robbed, you can carry a smartphone with bitcoins.  A mugger may steal your phone but can't get into your wallet because they don't know the passwords. I wish we could get The Manipulator to join these forums using that as his handle and make posts all the time, provided it's not a faker. Whenever someone does a big buy or sell or like 10,000 coins or more, the price moves.  And then to matter if it's overpriced or underpriced, all the bots gather around it like it's the word of God.  And then as long as nobody buys or sells too much at once (like 100 coins max at once) then it will just stagnate there forever.  When done on MtGox, then all the other exchanges copy your trend.   Plus some speculators will flock around your new trend pushing it further in the direction you want.So all you have to do to manipulate the market is just a huge buy or sell and watch the bots and speculators flock treat your new price like the standard.  Then you can pick away at slowly buying or selling your coins off. It will stagnate here at a good cheap place to buy coins before going up to 5.50 and stagnating there for a week more. MtGox is pretty close. The key is knowing when it's at its maximum.  Too many people sell early. Astral entities? The intrinsic value is bitcoins is their use as an uncontrollable internet monetary system and their brand recognition as being the first to do this.  This in itself is what gives bitcoins their value. Most miners save up all the can in anticipation of a price swing.  Mining is a long term investment.  You mine for months, you don't sell when it's at a big low, you wait for it to be at the highest point. I'm tempted to go all in right now below $5 where it's at, but the problem is not the volatility but the stagnation.  It might just stagnate below $5 for a week and since a lot of people need to get their money out at the end of the month, including me, I can't wait around for the chance it will finally stop stagnating.
Based on it's unbearable stagnating activity, it will do one of these two things.  I don't know which:1) It will start rallying up and then stagnate really high for a week until bearish speculators think it won't go back down and finally buy overpriced coins.  Once they've all bought all in, it will crash to $3-4 and stagnate there until the bearish investors think it's never going back up and sell.2) It will have a happy crash to the $4s for cheap coins before going back to the 5s.The longer it stagnates, the more likely #1 will happen.I have a bunch of end of month expenses and unless it crashes to below $5 soon, I'm just not going to buy till first week of October after the beginning of the month crash is over with because it takes time to transfer out of Gox, then from Dwolla to my bank account. Okay let's make it change each block and be different each time.  But that's not good enough, we also should make this change boost the encryption of the cryptocurrency too. When the price moves, people can say they bought at the lower point and then once it gets to the higher point, it's a good time to sell and people are happy.But because the price has been stagnating at 5.50 for close to a week.  In the past it's done that then jumps to about 40 cents lower and just sits there twice as long.  Occasionally, it'll be worse and actually rally up several dollars and then one misses it.  Either way when it stagnates for days like this, it means to screw somebody over. Many speculators went all in above $6 expecting the price to rise. I have found that whenever I buy on a bull market, the price drops.  The only way to buy coins that aren't overpriced is the very tip of a bear market.  I was hoping Thursday it would drop but it's Saturday and still not stagnating.  If it doesn't drop soon, I'm just taking my money out (to pay my rent) and then not putting any in until October 7th as the first week of the past few months have always been massive price drops that permanently lower bitcoin prices by several dollars.Oh and this winter when mining makes electricity basically free, price may reach I don't know $1 temporarily. Chargebacks are 90% "friendly fraud".  Buyers get stuff delivered to their home in their name and claim to the banks they didn't make the purchase.  Despite all the seller proof, the bank still sides with the criminal cardholder (my experience as a merchant).  Or other types of "friendly fraud" like the post office not doing their job scanning zip codes, or buyers forcing a refund for "not as described" and returning and empty box with tracking numbers.The other 10% is when a merchant is stupid enough to think scamming people with credit card payments is a good idea.Or it could be 99% and 1%.  I'm not sure, but it's mostly "friendly fraud". Chargebacks are never voluntary between both parties.  The merchant gets a huge chargeback fee and then are at risk of losing their merchant account for it. The Manipulator has cancelled his 3000BC buywall so my money is a drop to $2.  I'm going all in with a large order of all my money for $100 worth of coins there. Paying with bitcoins like this is like paying with cash except if someone steals your cell phone, it should have enough password protection both in the phone's app and in the service the app connects to so you can basically carry tons of cash but can't be robbed.Oh and chargebacks are mainly used for "friendly fraud". No, the price is tricky.  It does what you least expect of it.  Probably because all the speculators are counting on what they expect of it so it does something else.I want to know though, what makes it stagnate for days on end? So it only moves maybe 10 or 20 cents all day.Does anyone know what is going on with the market or why it does this? The Manipulator is making it stagnate at 5.50 instead of drop to below $5 so we can get in at a definite good time to buy. Creationists insist that teachers teach fire, air, water, earth, and spirit as elements.Though this is biased because the Chinese use a different system. It will crash there only after first getting stuck in the $6s or higher, tricking bearish investors thinking it will never go down again and $6 is the new low.  Only after getting all their money will it finally jump down to a new low.Oh and at the start of October it will likely go down as it does normally at the start of a month. Those are the very edge of wild swings.  The price has been 5.50 the whole time with only a 1% difference (about 10 cents) in either way both times. Price is stagnating horribly.  It's horrible! Oh wait, there's 4chan's /b/.  Well back when /b/ was good. Today was an awful day for speculators because the price just stagnated.  I hope tommorow it will do its weekend drop. Maybe Gulliver's Travels? He's an internet detective!
Lots of people don't put up walls and use bots that sneak in buy and sells when the price reaches somewhere. Well today, he's finally pulled out his huge buywall so hopefully it will freefall this Thursday.  I bet those people who bought at 5.60 and those bots that insulted him from some of the sell orders feel silly now. No one is selling either.  The market has been stagnating since last evening.  Perhaps The Manipulator is making it stagnate? He's got fame.  So he can just churn out books and get publishers to pay him for them. I couldn't tell if 5.30 was the bottom or not at the time.  It just sort of stagnated and only went up about 5 cents and the 10 cent was only sporadic stuff hard to get except with a sellwall and one can't make more than a tiny sellwall there or risk pushing it down.  The 5.50 bump is some manipulator and they aren't pushing it higher so far. Why did he put a 3000ish coin buywall at 5.50, bumping the price way up today?I wonder what's going to happen.  So far only one or two people took the bait and it has not climbed. To me it's when it drops a lot and finally hits bottom and will go back up. Considering, the low end was 5.30 yesterday and 5.10 was the best buy in point yesterday, I'm just pondering if 4.90 would be a good time to buy in point based on the same logic or if it's better to wait to 4.60 for a possible drop on Friday.Everyone who went all in above $6 two days ago has been dumping their overpriced coins yesterday and today. I figured out why it drops more after the end of the month.  People who are buying bitcoins maybe don't sell that much off, but they have lots of expenses and so for the first week after they pay their end of month expenses, they are in a cash crunch for a week and so don't have the free money available to buy up all the coins that others are selling off at a gradual rate. So how much will it fall this end of the week?  I'm hoping The Manipulator is nice enough to drop it to $3.  They should make a movie called: "Bitcoin Prices: How I learned to stop stagnating and love The Manipulator". If it swings back and forth enough, it's easier to make money because I can just wait for the low point, then wait for the high point.  It's when it is stuck at a bad area for a week that I lose money because I pull out not knowing if it will get stuck at a worse place for another week. I sell trinkets on eBay and buyers only want the item if it's basically free and a lot do "friendly fraud" to get it free.  eBay shut down their livechat, never reads email (even states this in the emails), won't answer the phone, and basically is completely uncontactable by anyone so it's horrible. Mind moving it somewhere now please?  The stagnation is killing me.  Either up to $6 or down to $5, please. Are you the manipulator?  Can you make it move more?  I want $1 swing each hour.Right now it is dead stuck, no trading at all. When I set a sell order at an amount, it's been around for a while, and then I see a big buy order surpass me by 10 cents and MtGox decides not to have the buy order go to any of the coins I'm selling, I know Gox is doing the manipulation. I've been thinking, without him, the market would stagnate.  What is useful is to be able to predict his next move. My theory: Today, when the price neared $5, he pumped it up again so he could sell off the coins he bought as a prelude to sending it to the $4s.I do appreciate his efforts to keep the price from stagnating.  Stagnation is horrible! mark karpeles?
Dear The Manipulator,Would you please make the price stagnate less?I would like it if it swung a huge amount each hour instead of taking a week as it does currently.  Much appreciated if you do this. Do you have evidence of this? Actually I think the goal here is to predict his moves to profit off them. Mining wouldn't cost that much electricity if we went back to CPU mining.  Solidcoin v2 changed the hash scheme to promote CPU mining.  Perhaps bitcoin should do likewise? It looks like we would rally right up today.  But every time the price raises slightly, someone suddenly out of nowhere dumps coins to force it down. What I'm seeing today is a steady buying pressure combined with The Manipulator dumping massive coins to try to force the price down but people keep buying them.  And whenever it rallies, he dumps a bunch of coins to force it down. The Manipulator is forcing the price down.  People keep trying to rally and whenever it starts rallying big, he dumps coins onto it to make the rallying stop. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qCTbFN0EsDM It's happening again! Doesn't it suck when you're in all the way above $6 and it crashes to $5? What's the Sobi conference? I am not sure, but I suspect these. kjlimo,I think they redid solidcoins so it's CPU mining only to make mining less gamable by lots of GPUs chained together. Tue 9/10 10PMWhew!!!  That was close.  I finally sold my last 3 bitcoins off at 6.20 that I bought at 6.14.  An 11 cent profit after Gox fees, but thankfully I came out without a loss.Now it looks like it's going to drop. I thought they'd allow withdraws via dwolla but not adding.  Instead they allow dwolla adding for a hefty fee and not withdraws.Bitcoin7 allows dwolla withdraws but not dwolla adding.  This has made the volume on its site go to nothing.  I used to trade there before this happened. Well I also bought 13 coins around $5.99 and sold them at $6.10. This isn't that bad.  It may actually go back up.  I've actually not had every trade I make as a loss.  It's just I've had many incidences where it will drop several dollars seconds after I go all in and buy everything. I wonder why Tradehill doesn't allow withdrawing funds through dwolla and the ways to add and withdraw funds to it are harder and take a percentage out instead of 25 cents.  Even its dwolla option uses some other service that takes a percentage out. I bought hardly anything, about 5% of my available money.  If it collapses to cheap then it's like sacrificing a pawn in chess. Holy crap it starts collapsing!
I have bought 3 coins at 6.14334 (2.988 coins after Gox fees), using only about 5% of my available money.  We shall see where the price goes now.Based on the price screwing me over, it would best screw me over if it stagnated right around where I bought it, never reaching my sell order of the coins for 10 cents more, but also never dropping real low either. I think if we close in on the wall, he'll just cancel his sell orders and let it climb. It looks like it's trying to cross the $7 threshhold.  Not even The Manipulator can stop it. I've seen Gox swing wildly on certain ways and then I can go on bitcoin7 and buy or sell before the people there update it.But what about Tradehill?  I've been seeing people here liking it.  So I'm wondering does Tradehill ever set the price for MtGox or is it mainly just MtGox setting the price on Tradehill? People make alternatives with a small number of improvements.  The real replacement with have major improvements.  See the threads I created in this subforum with suggestions as I made lots of good ones.  Then add everyone else's too (like how solidcoin v2 got rid of the GPU mining cheat so it's CPU mining only).  Then you need someone good at math to figure out how it's done.  Then peer reviews to tweak the idea.A real improvement of bitcoins won't be a small number of improvements, it will be a huge, vast amount of improvements over ever facet of bitcoins. It's jumping around a little but today the high is 6.795.  It will probably keep going higher. moonco.in [184.86.115.26]I have a comcast IP and I did a tracert.  It did not leave comcast and then went to5    14 ms    15 ms    14 ms  pos-0-0-0-0-pe01.529bryant.ca.ibone.comcast.net [68.86.86.122]6    15 ms    16 ms    16 ms  a184-86-115-26.deploy.akamaitechnologies.com [184.86.115.26]Then https://www.dan.me.uk/ipinfo?ip=184.86.115.26If the feds took the site over, it would not have an IP from the guy's comcast account.  You have been had.  He still has your money. That's not enough.  You need to have every feature proposed and put it into one really good cryptocurrency for it to be a real replacement.  A single tweak alone, especially some money thing is lacking. If anyone wants to donate to thank me for the rally, I would appreciate it.  I lost a whole lot of money in bitcoins and will have trouble paying bills this month.  I promise to sell the coins right away so that since I have no coins, the price will continue to rise. The Castanza method doesn't work.  The price still screws me over, which sucks because I want to one day store my savings in bitcoins. I have refused to buy it and so it has risen over $6.  As long as I refuse to buy it and have no coins, it will keep rising.But if I buy it, it will start dropping. Evidence against: MtGox already makes $10K-$1000K a day from its fees.Evidence for: MtGox won't let you withdraw more than 100BC a day and more than $1000 a day (max $10,000 a month) so The Manipulator will have trouble cashing his investment in using only a small number of accounts, so a non-MtGox manipulator would use lots of accounts and not have all his money and coins t in one account and the buy and sell walls that are huge that show someone is manipulating them I've seen them appear and dissapear at the exact same time, never incrementally. I'm pretty sure it's a hoax.  The site owner is trying to pretend the feds have your coins now instead of him. Another coin system based around price.  This is the wrong way to do it because it won't work and won't affect the price. I think this is only a small portion of miners.  Most of the ones I've talked to say they aren't selling, like this guy begging for bitcoins when he has 23,000.  (Last time I had coins, I had less than 100)If most miners sold, I think the price would just tank to under $1. The charts you mean?  You know every time the price gets a predictable pattern, it then changes and never does the same pattern again? I just remembered one thing he did last month.  He made this enormous buywall $1 higher than the regular price and he had it for 100,000 coins.  People first were selling into it, and then bots and speculators put a bunch of buy orders in front of it so they were buying it up.  It was rallying big and he wasn't buying anything up anymore.  And then suddenly he removed his buywall and the price crashed down $1 lower and started crashing.  About 45 minutes later, he puts the same buy order back and then he kept it back for an hour.  I think he did that a couple other times around then where he leaves it up for a minute and then drops it totally, making the price swing over $1 each time. I would like to know how to predict his behavior so I know beforehand if he will raise or lower it.  How can I do that? Back when it was in the $6s last month, it would start rallying and then about to go up to $10, then at about 20 cents higher, suddenly people are "I don't know if it will go much higher" and start selling coins off massively for a 1% profit, and then making it go back down and never climb. The only evidence I've seen of a manipulator is when all the buywalls suddenly vanish with no one selling into them.  When it dropped from $6 to $4 or so last month, someone just removed all the ones at once, probably the same person.  Then last Wednesday night, someone removed every single buy order from $5.01 to $5.45.  They just went.  Nobody was selling.  Someone just cancelled them.  So it seems that there's one or two people with lots of money that have most of the buy and sell orders.You know, come to think of it, this guy who has all the large buy and sell orders might in fact be the one who dumped 20,000 coins last night.  He just sold them to himself and with his activity, MtGox fees are only 0.0025 for him.  If he has done that, then I suspect he's done it lots of times before.One odd thing I've noticed is a large buy or sell order appears and it's right near the edge of where buying or selling is.  It lasts 5 seconds, moves the price a penny in one direction, then dissapears.  Then it comes back a minute later raised of lowered slightly and only lasts 5 seconds before dissapearing, repeat ad naseum.  I don't know why he does this.No, just a good Samaritan with lots of money.  Maybe Bruce?  But the Manipulator's buy and sell walls consist of maybe 500,000 USD, not merely 5,000.
I'm not talking about that.  I rationally try to determine if the price will go up or down.I've observed this kind of thing.I notice the price swinging back and forth 10 cents, so I figure I can get in on a low swing and make a small profit and repeat.  Seems sensible.  So I do it.  Less than 2 seconds after that, MtGox freezes, MtGoxLive freezes and then it drops at least $1, sometimes $2 with someone selling a massive amount of coins off which makes it freeze.  I've had this happen 3 times now.  It didn't happen an hour later, or ten minutes, but about 2 seconds.  It's really freaky.  Whenever I've waited it out, it has never gone back up.By the way, doing the opposite doesn't work.  That's like if there's a random number generator of 1 and 2 and then trying to guess it right.  Guessing the opposite won't work.  I normally win and lose about the same amount of coins, except when it does the coincidences like I've mentioned.  Also, if it is going to do a predictable pattern, then it stops doing that pattern.  Like it crashes on a Wednesday night instead of a Thursday afternoon and then goes up Friday and Saturday. I thought you need a lot of money to put up many buy and sell walls. Whenever it seems to be, it moves somewhere else. Obviously it's not.  I've just observed it behaves that way. You link to http://blockexplorer.com/ Because I sold all my coins and refuse to buy more till it drops to $3 due to bitcoin prices behaving like some intelligent entity always trying to screw me over.  It'll probably keep rallying. I refuse to ever buy it again until it drops to the $3s. It says, "Payment InformationCredit Card PayPal "Eww PayPal.Why can't I send bitcoins? I know this makes no sense, this is just an observation, but the price behaves like this sentient being intent on screwing me over.  Me personally, when I have very little money but this price just behaves, as strange as it seems, like it's out to get me as opposed to some rich person with lots of bitcoins and money.  I've lost faith in bitcoins and won't be buying any till they come down to $3.  I was planning on investing long term in bitcoins, but I don't plan on it unless it's $1-2 so I know it will finally stop dropping.  No way I want it to take 50-99% of my money by crashing to nothing after I bought a lot. I refused to buy any more coins and it saw this so decided to go up.  As long as I refuse to buy them, it will keep going up. After the crash from $30, people are waiting for it to hit $1-2 so it can finally stabilize before they'll buy coins and then they will be wary.  They do want to invest, but don't want to buy coins till it has finally hit bottom so they won't lose 90% of their money. I have a personal suspicion that it is going to crash down low again soon.  It's been stagnating while dwindling for over 60 hours so it is sure to happen.  All these people who bought it at 4.90 see it going lower and lower.  Pretty soon someone will realize it's not going back up till next year or later and will dump it knowing they can buy back cheaper.  Then the buywalls will drop and everyone will sell their coins.  It'll drop below $4. If bitcoin goes back to $8, everyone will be all "wow price is up, good time to unload coins for a profit" and selling, selling, selling till it's down to $3 again. They can only withdraw 100BC or $1,000 a day (max $10,000 a month) so they can't take 20,000 coins from one account. Finally fall already!  It's been stagnating for two days so it's going to do it.  But it takes forever! It's waiting to lure me into buying back in.  The second I do, it will drop $1-2 permanently. It's been stagnating for over a day.  This has always meant it will eventually crash.Sometimes all the buywalls are done by one man and when he suddenly chooses to remove them, the price falls.  And I know when they're bid through and when not.  When they're all dropped at once manually, little gray lines appear and there's no activity for a whle.  When they're bid through for 40+ cents, MtGoxLive freezes and also MtGox freezes to ensure I can't cancel my buy orders.  A minute or two later they start working again   MtGoxLive uptime says, "30 hours".  30 hours ago was when someone sold 20,000 coins, hence the outage.Probably Sunday morning will be a rally.  Typically this happens about 10 minutes before I get up in the morning, no matter when I get up in the morning. What would happen if someone goes and constantly generates new addresses as some kind of attack on the network?  Would they eventually usurp most possible network addresses or get some other person's address and potentially usurp their payments? Wednesday night, someone who had all the buywalls from 5.01 to I think 5.40 decided to drop all their buywalls at once.When someone sold 20,000 coins at once on Thursday, people started buying it up again eventually to 5.10.  Then they ran out of money for coins and stopped.I wonder if they'll suddenly change their orders later to buy it higher or if buycoin is going to stay under $5 for good the rest of the month.  I suspect the later. And those who did ran out of money.
Every time a post like this happens, bitcoin goes slightly in the direction the poster advised for 10 or 20 cents, then it falls about 150 cents in the opposite direction. @nighteyesPayPal wanted to do that originally when they first started, before they did online payments, when they were called Confinity.  They ended up not doing it, probably because of credit card and echeck fraud.  But bitcoins solves this, provided that the wireless signals are not intercepted. It's based on how much someone will pay for it.I'd personally love to buy a million coins for $30 each and if I had $31 million dollars I seriously would.  ($1 million extra for the Gox fees).I don't have pretty much anything moneywise to buy coins or I'd be buying them back to $8. It's panic selling, matt. In one or two months it might bounce back up to $5-6, you think? Typically what it does is it stagnates, which is horrible and I just hate this.Then suddenly it drops.  Then when it hits bottom, it jumps back up.  Then it stagnates.I really hate the stagnation.  I don't have tons of coins to try to break the stagnation, so I don't know what else to do except to sell my coins and wait for eons for it to finally move and drop. I've spoken to miners and most claim to be saving them for a price rise.  There are a lot of people selling on MtGox.  I don't know if it's hackers or investors. It was stagnating around 5.50 for a while.  Nobody was trading, just people moving buy and sell orders around.  Occasionally bots would move them right next to each other, than immediately cancel.  But no buying or selling really.  Sometimes they'd accidentally cause or buy or sell and then immediately cancel.Then it turned out it was one guy who had all the buy orders from 5.01 through 5.45.  He cancelled all of them at the same time.  Prices crashed and a some people panic sold, but other than that just bots pretending to sell by moving sell orders around.Interesting things:1) One guy had all the buy orders that had been propping the price up above $5.2) Most of these buy and sell orders are fake. It jumps randomly somewhere each day and then stagnates for a day, then repeats. But that's hindsight bias.  It's a logic flaw. Wednesday is the day to rally.  It will keep going up up up and up! http://www.ronpaulwins.com/Bitcoin is very big among Ron Paul supports.  http://www.ronpaulforums.com/showthread.php?289898-What-is-with-the-bitcoin-obsession It won't even move more than 1% in value a day anymore. How do you do the taxes for reporting the purchase and sale to the government when the purchase is purely in bitcoin?  If it's reported as a gift, then there's a gift tax typically. This.  Get some free website and list your items.  I won't buy till around Christmas. I just said this. Bitcoin is crashing!! I think your signature exlpains why you were so angry. The site is dead. You two assholes need to give helpful replies instead of trolls.
Next time help the kid buy bitcoins.  It will make them worth more. It's moving to byethost free hosting![kidding] How do I know? Funnyhttp://channel101.com/shows/show.php?show_id=121 Why can't the bitcoin software delete old bitcoin addresses?  Old versions and the current could not delete them. Will it finally crash to $2? I will give you all of my bitcoins if you give me 10% of your 22,000 coins. Wait a year. I'd start mining just for fun even if it was not worth it. The price appeared to tank and the buywalls vanished.  Instead what happened was someone hid their buywall.  When it gets to $5.81, they buy up to 5.88. I heard this.  I'd like statistical data to back it up.  I don't know how to get long term price data over months from MtGox. No, after that, when it sat at 6.20 +/- 0.10 BC for well MtGox says about 900 minutes. The hack changed my signature and I just noticed and changed Cosbycoin back to Bitcoin.  They were in the database a whole ton. The past 16 hours or so it has moved 0.10 BC back and forth, not percent. It's not going to crash.  It's going to stagnate forever.  The worst thing for investors is stagnation.  If it crashed, it means we could pull out, buy in lower and make money.  But stagnation is the worst possible thing. 14 hours so far, it's not changed.  I've seen it do this for such a long time. If you have no emotions or desires then you go around full of apathy. You have not donated any money to me. Did you ever see the movie Idiocracy?  That restaurant has to change its name to Buttfuckers to stay in business... 500 years from now. How does Gox reverse a buy order if you buy and then withdraw coins right away?
Back in Spring 2010, websites used to recycle receiving addresses.  Now, at least MtGox, will generate a new one each time you receive donations.  On the client there is no way to delete or unmake a receiving address and MtGox says old ones still work.  And a lot of commerce bitcoin sites generate new addresses each time and that's what people do now.Doesn't each new address used or not then clutter the blockchain? On the bitcoinTV show he says he is this famous guy doing a lot of the Wikipedia guy's things. See on http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bruce_Wagner  He is married to a woman and used to be married to another one.Bruce Wagner on the bitcoin show says he is openly gay so they might be different people.Anyone know if the Wikipedia article is about the same Bruce? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_common_misconceptions Let's crash that bidwall!  Come out person with 22000 coins.  Send them to me and I will crash it then buy it back lower and give you the difference (plus I'll buy back some lower too with my own funds!) OPJust send me the 22K at 1JHR4q6fvsRGgmZoYwqCve66Vsb993t6vs and then I will sell them all off and then buy them back lower and give you the difference. Yes.  Fuck, I could use 22,000 bitcoins.  Even 22,000 dollars. Can you tell me how you make those charts? The OP just made this statement and prices rose and that's the only reason they did.  But they came back down again. He'll redraw a trend line.  Careful, he puts anyone on ignore who proves him wrong. It keeps falling. OPGive us full details.  If people like it and start it for you, then it will happen. MtGox live is not working then.  It doesn't show that much volume in its ticker.  The walls merely are evaporating. I said mine was real.  Most are bogus. No chargebacks.And bitcoins should stay in bitcoin.  I hope to buy vehicles and land with bitcoin when I get the money to buy either. Edward, I got up early and I am watching.  Every bidwall is cancelled when it is sold into, except mine. How much money is spent on paper and coin money?  On credit cards such as the cards, the processing machines, visa & mastercard fees, the cost of fraud, the cost of internet gateways?  On tax collecting? That's the wall that belongs to the one rich guy called The Manipulator.  When he wakes up Friday morning, he will remove it. Poor guy, they probably stole all his computer equipment, "confiscated". MtGox makes their money from transactions and when it jumps around, there's less trades.  I think it's some rich guy, early adopter.  And what happened was some less rich guy came in, put up a buywall of around 800bc and it wasn't going anywhere so the manipulator then cancelled his many sellwalls, all at once they fell at the same time.
I think any bitcoin mod is libertarian.  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=40872.0 I've seen youtube videos where people have 20 cards with the boxes of the cards stacked high and the cards all attached together in some custom rigs. I thought he was waiting for it to fall to 6.40 and then jump in, pump it up, and sell. It appears to be one person with all those buywalls.  I am watching him this second.  He had two big ones and now they're all changing to a staircase of little buywalls.  And when it dropped under 6, he made an accidental removal of some of his buywalls before he put them back in or maybe Gox lagged.  You're being played for suckers.  The Manipulator is now scooping up cheap coins. I am watching him.  He first cancels them all at the exact same time.  Then he lets the price fall.  Then he cancels about ten at the same moment.  And I doubted Edward50. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_of_the_beast#616 Bruce was saying people who criticized bitcoins were 13 year olds. Calm down.  People have different opinions.  This guy is maybe 40:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R0CtyUKUbSwhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ko5lOc4nsac Help me finish this parody http://www.directlyrics.com/rebecca-black-friday-lyrics.html(Yeah, Ah-Ah-Ah-Ah-Ah-Ark)Oo-ooh-ooh, hoo yeah, yeahYeah, yeahYeah-ah-ahYeah-ah-ahYeah-ah-ahYeah-ah-ahYeah, yeah, yeah7am, waking up in the morningGotta go online, gotta check MtGoxGotta cancel my buy order, gotta watch the price dropSeein’ everything, the time is goin’Tickin’ on and on, everybody’s selling’Gotta get down to the bottom pointGotta catch the lowest point, before an upswingKickin’ in the computer chairSittin’ watchin MtGox liveGotta make my mind upWhich bid should I make?It’s Thursday, ThursdayBitcoin price goes down every ThursdayEverybody’s lookin’ forward to the weekend price swingThursday, ThursdayBitcoin price goes down every ThursdayEverybody’s lookin’ forward to the weekend price swingSellin’, sellin’ (Yeah)Sellin’, sellin’ (Yeah)Fun, fun, fun, funLookin’ forward to the buy back What is Wednesday? Not even The Manipulator can save the price of bitcoins. The manipulator is just some person who wants to make money trading many thousands of coins. Maybe he used an ugly one once and then decided it scared customers away. This isn't your band is it, OP? This was a joke. The NVIDIA is for compatibility with a game I want to play.  I have not bought the card yet.Anyway, I'm not sure what employment I can get to be paid in BTC, but I really would like to try.  And there is a website (in someone's signature) full of people saying they'll do this or that for BTC but no website with want ads that will pay people BTC to do things. Yes, women with little Eumelanin (the useful one) and women with a lot of Pheomelanin (useless for UV protection as causes cancer on exposure to sunlight but also is what causes freckles and red hair) is what makes women look good. My ideas herehttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=41905.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=40029.0 I did not know when it would bottom out, but I set the poll to auto-lock after 5 days I believe. Someone said that the more threads I make here, the more the price falls.  And I made this one https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=42302.0
You know how The Dukes of Hazard named their car, "The General Lee"?  My car is named, "The Price of Bitcoins." and I bought it with bitcoins too! I have an idea.  Let's send him about $1000 of bitcoins and teach him how to spend it to buy himself stuff.  The condition would be that he makes a YouTube video about his experience.  That means more bitcoin exposure. When someone buys a car or land, they have to report the value they bought it for and same for the person selling either of these.  How would they work with bitcoins? It's now dwindling down slow.  Knowing it's obviously set for another crash, why don't the holders just sell it all off right now before it drops to $6 and below? okay The manipulators have to profit.  They can put a buywall at $10 or a sell wall at $1 but they'll lose money. I can tell it's overpriced, but I don't know when it will fall to normal levels.  I do believe this winter when mining is cheaper as a free heating system, it will make the price drop. I think it's about trolling, "First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win."First they ignore the troll, then they find him funny, but when they fight him (get trolled by him), he wins. I was correct.  If I helped anyone with investing, drop me some bitcoins please.  1DcXvfJdeJch9uptKopte5XQarTtj5ZjpL Okay based on this poll, I now know how to bid.  I will make pollls in the future and whatever gets the least votes is correct.This happened: It will bottom and just stagnateAnd this might happen: It will bottom and very slowly dwindle away $21.19 ?  What are you running, VPS? Ed's a genius.  All his predictions have been accurate so far. It's $7.11 per coin.It's not going up.  Not going down.  Been like this all day with only slight variations.Good news everybody! Stock options aren't taxed, right?  I heard Microsoft had a tax evasion scheme with stock options that was perfectly legal.  You could pay the employees minimum wage plus a bonus in bitcoins. It's been hovering around 7.05-7.20 and refusing to go higher or lower.  The market manipulator tried hard with a massive buywall at 7.15 then 7.20 and it just refused to go above 7.20.  This means people just don't want to buy above 7.20.  Now is the time to sell as it will crash soon.  I sold mine. Graphics are terrible.  I don't see any gameplay, just some boring world design stuff that's so tedious and dull, then you just explore a boring world with horrible graphics, including a square sun. Let's say I want to buy a car in person with bitcoins?  Get a laptop to load 1 gig of data that takes 1 month.  Transfer it in person.  So I have to sign a contract then wait a day for them to clear.  Then try to get the judge to enforce it if one party doesn't come through. stagnatestagnatestagnatestagnaterise? Why not $2? No.  Let's say you got 10,000 bitcoins and want to try to make money with them.  Whenever you buy or sell, the price goes crazy so it's annoying.  You unintentionally manipulate the market.
If I was rich, I would buy lots of bitcoins till I get a million, then buy slower.  I wouldn't care what the price does. Make this and I will invest! I actually like this one! 7.10 It had climbed to 7.50.  Then Firefox running MtGox Live froze so I had to close and restart.  When I reopened it, it had fallen to about 6.90 and showed about 10,000 volume just sold. Anyone know?  Whenever there's lots of trades, Firefox freezes up.  Enough trades and it gets stuck that way even if I unplug my my modem and I can only close the browser and restart.  My computer has 4 gigs ram and 2.8 Ghz CPU so it's fast enough. That isn't what it looks like to me.  He is testing the selling power.  He managed to push it up from 6.40 to 7.50 and then he dumped 10,000 coins and now they're sitting there.  If it collapses lower, he will be back.  If starts climbing, he will jump in and the price will soar. Price would be in $9 if someone hadn't sold 10,000 at 7.50 down to 6.90 and now it has been stagnating, but not falling. You lost me.  The devil is the one who made bitcoins rise, after a bidwall at 6.66 with only 2500 coins made it really.I think you're saying people make these trade bots do all these trades that only make them lose money with trading fees so they feel powerful. People sold their coins cheap.  These people who bought it aren't going to sell until they're sure it reaches the top.  So there's less coins on the market. It turned around with a buywall of 3000 coins at 6.66.  This buywall dissapeared but the price kept rising.  Then they stagnated, but they never fell below 6.66 ever despite nearly going down.  Then a miracle happened and a buywall appeared at 7.71 and then the price got surging.The price is nearly at $8 nowBut the most interesting thing is the buywall is back, at 6.66 and it's at 11,000 coins and climbing.It really seems calling on divine intervention (the devil in this case) worked.Lesson learned: Satan helps bitcoins. Gmail uses visual captchas that are human unreadable, but there's software that can read them at 97% accuracy.  So it won't be a visual captcha. Bitcoin prices are based entirely on speculation.  People have been waiting for it to go back up and now it has, they are all buying it.  I hope it will go up to $14. Someone made a bidwall at 6.66 and this is what made it go up.  It is satan's influence on the bitcoin. I don't get it?  Is Mt. Gox doing this to make investors feel powerless? So you have to use a wallet website for bitcoins?  That's a problem.  Websites typically only accept so many wallet websites and normally a few big ones control the market and then the government controls them.  Bitcoins must be free of the government and so the wallet website stuff needs to be coded in to the next alternative. So much for my dream of $2.  Welp maybe this weekend it'll crash again.  I'm back in. But how do you know when it's about done falling and some big buyer is going to jump in by surprise? Why do these bots trade back and forth at basically so near each other the trade fees cancel out any possible profit? 1) It stagnates for a long time, unable to climb.2) Then it falls.3) Suddenly without warning, a huge amount of coins are bought.4) The price soars5) The price stops increasing6) Go back to one.Am I right?
Recaptcha uses a system where they give captchas mixed with a scanned text a computer can't read.  Ten people or so have to give the same answer for the scanned text or it won't be accepted so one person putting the n-word won't get it erroneously put into an ebook.  This can work for mining bitcoins.  It can make it so mining isn't dominated by whoever is rich enough to buy the best hardware. Please fix this in the next ecurrency.http://online.wsj.com/video/bitcoin-to-burn-a-hole-in-your-pocket/1FADAD1B-15D6-4250-AD7B-E62556C5D1A3.html And then there's all these tradebots.  Who runs them, Mt. Gox?  I don't know how they make a profit trading right near the edge of transactions unless they have no transaction fees, so probably Mt. Gox is doing it. Well I'd take normal selling cars on the internet and do it in a bitcoin only website.  I'd do it entirely to promote bitcoins. If I had the money I would start an online business selling cars for bitcoins and I'd sell them cheap too to generate interest. I think a lot of them sold and it's people like satoshi buying back that is keeping the price from plumetting. I'm considering it might be worth it to simply not buy anymore bitcoins because they're going to keep falling especially during the cold weather season. We need Australia in the market now because it's winter for them during our summers. This would make sense since there's no cost associated with taking bitcoins like with a merchant account. Yes, people making linear charts are just dead innacurate.  People need to see bitcoin frenzy this summer as like a gasoline fire. Hey you just proved your charts are wrong because you refuse to take criticism. Unless you can buy most things with these coins, they are a bad investment.  Tulip mania. No.  People keep selling all their stored up bitcoins so people need new money to buy them or the price drops.  Coins won't stop being generated.  There's not enough people buying coins as an investment.  You really can't buy hardly anything with them and so the only option is trade them for cold card cash.  Yeahh when bitcoin surged up, it hurt the overall economy.  Gradually, coins are making their way back down.  Then they won't jump so much. Bitcoins are dropping because they're stablizing at maybe $1 per coin.  Then they will hold at this price over the long term and we can have a real economy instead of a roller coaster ride! I think the price needs to drop until mining is a waste of money.  Only then will miners save their coins instead of sell them.  People need to mine either as a hobby or as a multi-year investment.Right now people are building expensive custom chips just to mine coins.  All you people who mine, if the price climbs up, will you mine more?  No, you will mine far far less because it will be the rich folks with their super expensive mining rigs getting all the coins.  The only way you will mine more coins is when the price drops to worthless and you save them for a year before you sell them -- that's how you make money... you see people have to think it's not worth it to mine.  Right now people think mining pays off so it's not worthwhile to mine. You need money to control the prices and early adopter money is in coins so they must sell coins at a loss to manipulate the markets.  They have done this but are running out of money and that's why the price is continuing to fall. I think the people buying all those coins trying to hold up the price are the early adopters who got millions of coins.  But they weren't rich and all their money was in coins so to get money, they have to sell their coins and like the guy who put up a bidwall at 6.66, he bought thousands of coins at that price, but if all his income was in bitcoins, that means he had to sell them for cheaper to be able to buy less coins back at a higher price to try to prop the price up.Every time an early adopter sells their 10,000 coins, they need to find investors with $70,000 to pay for that or the price collapses.  There are millions of coins stored by early adopters and there's nowhere even near the amount of money willing to buy them.  If there were bitcoin shops, sure it would be good but like I said in https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=41905.0 bitcoin shopping is too cumbersome for the layman. I think many tried to and that's why it quickly dropped from $30.
@SjalqI read some news article where a bunch of prude women in Iceland banned all porn.  I don't think that was quite it but my memory was fuzzy and it was something like this. No, I'd say it'll stablize at $2.  Edward50 also says that's when he is buying and he has only made accurate predictions to date. Bitcoin will never reach $8 again until next year! Right now I am watching it crash from 6.80 back down to 6.30 http://mtgoxlive.com/ordersI wish I could place a bet on how fast it will fall. http://www.gmanews.tv/story/231570/technology/bitcoin-virtual-money-malware-spreading-via-twitterNow, even virtual currency is no longer safe from malware.A computer security firm warned malicious links are now spreading over micro-blogging site Twitter, leading to malware that can mine for Bitcoins, a virtual currency used in peer-to-peer sharing.In a blog post, Trend Micro said the spammed malicious shortened URLs on Twitter appear to contain a JPG image file from a Facebook domain.“Clicking the links redirect to a shortened Twitter URL (http://t.co). Most of these Twitter users are from Indonesia. To lure users to click on the URL, cybercriminals incorporated Facebook.com into the link where the malicious file is hosted. Upon clicking the said link, the unwitting user is led to (a link on facebook.com) ... Since September 2 2011, approximately 600 tweets of the same link have been posted," Trend Micro fraud analyst Paul Pajares said.Pajares pointed out the JPG image file is not a picture file but an executable file that Trend Micro detects as WORM_KOLAB.SMQX.He noted searching for the picture file using Twitter’s search function reveals an updated list of users who tweeted the same malicious link.Trend Micro said that when users post a tweet, it is followed by a malicious link with the text “hahaha!!!" It is also used in the retweet and reply feature of Twitter.Investigation showed the malicious file creates a directory “aaa" with the following files:    * 3kal.cmd: a batch file that contains the command for executing mamatije2.exe    * hsbca.exe: a normal file (Hidden Start v3.2)    * mamatije2.exe: detected as HKTL_BITCOINMINE that connects to a malicious link with the username mrdd_ludacha and password mama1.Pajares noted the login credentials do not work, and display a bad request (HTTP 400).He said the malware will also connect to other malicious sites, which contains the following malicious files that use the names of famous personalities:    * http://robertpattinson.{BLOCKED}ion.org/pictures/Calc-3-9-2011.jpeg (HKTL_BITCOINMINE)    * http://{BLOCKED}alokab.go.id/images/news/JohnLennon-Imagine.exe (WORM_KOLAB.SMQX)Bitcoin miner botnet with ddos capabilities foundMeanwhile, Trend Micro also noted a new Bitcoin miner botnet that can turn infected computers into a giant network that can launch distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks against at least 2,000 targets.It said the malware, identified as BKDR_BTMINE.DDOS, is a component of BKDR_BTMINE.MNR and can update its list of targets remotely.“The DDoS component may be used to attack competing Bitcoin miners and limit their processing power. The malware also tries to communicate with a long list of IP addresses. A list of more than 2,000 IP addresses is hardcoded in the malware and is constantly updated upon execution," threat response engineer Karl Dominguez said in a blog post.Dominguez said Bitcoins are worth more than $8 each, but their values are constantly rising.He said that since Bitcoins use P2P sharing, the charges incurred are much lower compared to transferring money through banks or clearing houses.Bitcoin transactions are anonymous and they can be used anywhere, without limits, he added.“Bitcoin usage is gaining popularity in web transactions because of these advantages it also raises some security issues. To stay safe, encrypt all wallets as soon as they leave your system. Use a strong, unique password for wallet encryption," Dominguez said. — TJD, GMA News   I don't know what that is, but can it let me mine lots of coins without buying a bunch of expensive hardware?  Anything over $50 is too much. No, keep it around 1 euro so it's easy for people to think on. Oh here's my old post.  I could not find it in search so I had to make a new thread.  6.66 buywall is gone and the price looks like it will fall. I held for $14 all August.  It did not go back up. Bitcoins are awesome, they just got inflated.  $1/coin is a stable price. Well problem is someone has to code the whole thing and a true good replacement will be recoded from scratch. I want to be able to buy 1000 bitcoins with a few dollars.  Then I'd buy a million and all those people who scoffed at bitcoins I'd offer to send the coins to them.  Problem is at 6.75, it is so overpriced so it's not worth buying. I like it.  It's like credit card authorization holds and batching.  Businesses place a hold on a credit card and batch out at the end of the day.  This would be good for online ordering.But you know what, it would be a good idea too if we can get smart cards that can hold bitcoin values so you swipe it over a vending machine, your smart card shows a value, then you enter a pin on the card and poof it sends money. @OP/steelhouseSo will old gathered coins just dissapear?  That is no good for a currency.  People need to be able to take all their fortunes and dump them into coins to hide them and keep them safe from their ex-wives, tax collectors, cops, etc.  My idea is basically to trim these transactions.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=41905.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=40029.0Also the 6 hour delay is bad.  They need to take no more than 30 seconds.  And 6 hours of transactions will still use lots of data. Well the people who think it's funny, are buying a lot of at 6.66, but I think that will fall.  Bitcoin will be good when it finally drops down to before the big media buzz.  It's just over-inflated now, but I believe when the bubble bursts, it will be good! Someone could've coded GPU mining in any language.Really Satoshi should have made encryption harder so it's not 256 bit, but 65535 bits. Edward50, since your predictions have always been accurate, how long will the buy wall at 6.66 last?  Will it continue because people like the gimmick of 666? Someone put a huge buy wall of about 4000 coins in at 6.66.  HAIL SATAN!It's down to 3120 coins now, but HAIL SATAN!
Bitcoin price is based entirely on speculation. Edward50 has always been right when he's made predictions https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=41925.msg510288#msg510288 I don't know how a CAPTCHA is paranormal. Encryption is for security. I think Satoshi read The Diamond Age and wanted a good chargeback proof currency.I like mining, but I think it needs to stop being based on who can afford the most expensive computers.  The puzzles need to be made to be solved by humans far easier than computers so miners will be people spending all day at computers working 8 hours a day like a job. I posted in another thread in alternative currencies and I'll mention here, mining needs to be redone so coins aren't gained by faster computers.  Mining will need some algorithm that computers can't solve and humans manually solving them will be faster.  Then when people make a living mining coins, it's something they will spend 8 hours a day doing like a real job and plus encryption will be harder to crack. For all we know, he is the founder of ixcoin. I like the idea of mining for a profit, but the problem with bitcoin mining is profits are made by the rich.  That is whoever can afford the best hardware.  Rich people with already fast computers will mine lots of coins.  Poor people with crap computers can never mine jack.  Back when bitcoins were new my computer was 10 years old and I never mined a single coin with it despite trying.Mining might be better with something like a CAPTCHA, but not those irritating CAPTCHAs that cause blindness due to eyestrain that computers can solve far easier than humans.Basically what I think it should be is whoever can process an encrypt a transaction fastest gets transaction fees.  But who gets new coins is who can solve some puzzle a computer cannot.  And computers just process numbers and can't understand concepts so something on that nature. It got two pages of long replies.  Why I didn't respond yet (will now) was because you didn't propose how to solve these problems. Don't get me wrong, I really like how people can make their whole living mining.The problem to me is that it stops being some individual and just ends up being about rich people making money.  You can innovate all you want, but making money mining is really about affording lots of mining cards.  When in fact mining innnovation needs to switch to people being innovative at getting free electricity.  I think most of the mined coins are by some big rich organizations in Russia or somewhere when they need to be by the guys who mine because their dorm/apartment has free electricity and they don't mine a huge amount so it's not noticed but they still get some good money doing it. Impatience is the worst thing with bitcoin trading.  It just lingers and goes so slowly.  Just finish falling already!!  Stop slowly falling week after week! Brain damaged you say?http://www.bitcoinminingaccidents.com/?p=271Oh and he has millions of dollars too. Too many people were voting for these bad candidates instead of a third party candidate who can fix the country. Ugh more hardware investments in mining.  This is what is harming bitcoins.  Mining needs to stop being profitable so people can get good amounts with the cheap emachine hardaware at walmart and 5 year old computers with built in video cards most people have.See https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=41886.0Also Mt. Gox low today is 6.12 so anything above that ($6.50 now) is too high. Link please? I mean someone with an emachine and a 2Ghz CPU with no external video card or maybe some $30 NVIDIA video card that does 10Mhash/sec.All these competition for mining just has ruined mining for everyone.  Let the people using freshly mined coins do them at a 50% loss of electricity.  This way it'll just be kids who have trouble getting money into bitcoin to begin with. I just noticed "Kelly".  OP is female!  I thought bitcoins were a guy thing. This is delicious copypasta, even better than the bitcoin causes brain damage post http://www.bitcoinminingaccidents.com/?p=27Just change the amount to 3000 or 30,00 coins and post anywhere people know of bitcoins! My faith won't be restored until it drops so low everyone who mines for a profit quits and only people who mine "for fun" continue mining. Then bitcoin will be a good currency as long as all mining even for the guy in Greenland is at a loss. I wrote this on another thread and I think it sums it up: Mining needs to be a literal loss of money after electricity so all those people mining for profit stop and the only miners are people who find it too burdensome to buy bitcoins--this way it helps by getting lots of new buyers of bitcoin related goods.
I think it's just overpriced.  I wrote this on another thread and I think it sums it up: Mining needs to be a literal loss of money after electricity so all those people mining for profit stop and the only miners are people who find it too burdensome to buy bitcoins--this way it helps by getting lots of new buyers of bitcoin related goods.  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=41886.0 Credit cards are friendly for the buyers if they know their chargeback rights.  But a lot of them don't and get scammed and those that know will abuse them and claim the card was stolen after a "friendly fraud" shopping spree with everything delivered to their home and the bank.I had a merchant account and I've proven stuff delivered to the buyer's home in their name, sometimes even with their signature and the banks just decide in favor of the "friendly fraud" buyer.  And then when I have basically no evidence at all, and merely by writing an angry letter about how all people who file chargebacks are scammers, the bank filed in my favor.  Then I kept writing angry letters each time and winning.  But I got out of that business to do something else.Umm anyway, credit cards are easy for buyers and well it doesn't matter for sellers because they'll sell stuff if there's buyers.  Look at eBay.Echecks are kinda funny because they only let people dispute for unauthorized so scammers can file disputes but not people who were ripped off.As for escrow, we only need something that simply makes sure the seller shipped something to the buyer.  If you do a "not as described", nobody can prove anything unless you video tape the packing and dropping off at the post office, or else if the weight on the package is way too light.  And this tracking requirement can be done really easily and cheaply.   You just need to pay miners some transaction fee to check, basically make them enter the zip code if it's delivered or "0" if not delivered and all 10 people must have it match the zip code for it to be good.  The only problem is when the post office screws up and enters a zip code 2 digits off. 6.66 now I bought 100 shares of Oneida stock when it was about $5.50/share.  It had collapsed and I expected it to go back up.  It kept falling and I figured well it's stock and I'll hold on for ten years.A year later, the stock all dissapeared and I called the company and they claimed the stock hit $0 and the creditors just somehow stole everyone's stock and own the company now.  I was pissed and made sure never to buy their silverware for this no matter how much the sales reps claim it's good. Help me decide on how to bid.I think it will hit bottom and then not rise back up because this time so many people have lost confidence. mybitcoin had their coins stolen over a month ago.  I don't know with allinvain is recent or not, but the gay rich movie producer who lost his costs had them gone a month ago too.So I don't think these are the recent thefts. Buying normally is like this.* Buyer goes to website,clicks products to buy and then when they pay, they enter their credit card.* Then in 30 seconds maximum, they get a confirmation their payment went through.* They also have dispute rights with their credit card if the buyer scams them.Buying with bitcoins is like this.* With bitcoins, well let's skip gettng the coins.  And we'll skip price fluctuations and pretend the price is stable.* Okay so buyer has coins in Mt. Gox.* Buyer downloads the software and then they start downloading transactions.  This is about a gig to download now, but may be 100 gigs in the future.  At a cable modem, I can download a 1 gig movie or tv show in about 5 minutes if everyone is seeding, but with bitcoin transactions, I get new information at about 10k per second so it takes a month to get most.  And then when I get closer to getting them all, it goes really slow because the other clients just wont share their shares.  I had the same issue in spring 2010 when the transaction table was almost nothing, just because clients just won't share the transactions.* So buyer gives up after a day waiting.  They then figure it's faster to transfer right from Mt. Gox, which is bad because bitcoins are about not being dependent on some website.* Bitcoin shopping cart has their order ready and saved and they must transfer their coins.* The buyer then copy and pastes a bitcoin address and hopes they didn't enter it wrong and lose their money.* Buyer transfers their coins and waits several hours for them to arrive, then even longer for the seller to verify and tell them the products haven't run out of stock during the wait.* Buyer has no escrow and bitcoin escrow are even more cumbersome.You see the problem?  Bitcoin shopping needs to be ecommerce-friendly.* The transaction table should be transmitted much better.  It should condense or purge old transactions more than a year.  It then needs to send the data compressed.  Next, clients should be forced to upload it faster to the other clients.* The system needs some good shopping cart and escrow system that cannot be stopped by the government shutting down escrow websites.  If we depend on escrow websites, then the government can just shut them all down.* Transactions need to be processed within under a minute.* Store transactions need a link like this...  btc://[ip address]:[bitcoin address]:[bitcoin amount]:[identifier]  ... and then the buyer hits "query" and it connects to the store's IP address, then it sends data via encryption back and forth and the store will confirm like "Thank you for shopping at S-Mart.  Jane Smith, your order of 1 purse, and a pair of socks is ready."  Then the buyer must hit "send coins" to confirm and send the order and this query system lets people know they didn't send coins to the wrong place.Lastly, you people may call this stuff whiny or what not, but this is what most people will deal with when shopping with bitcoins. Where was it stolen from?Most of the rumors indicate it was Mt. Gox that was hacked somehow.At one time Mt. Gox rolled back transactions.  But then what happens when people withdrew all their money and coins before the rollback? First to evolve on this planet, but oh they came from this other one.  If anoher civilization evolved here, there would be records.People that say this stuff eventually say they're fourth dimensional or something, but that means spirit.  99% of the matter in this universe is plasma and it's likely most lifeforms in this universe are energy-based.  But energy based are not reptiles, mammals, etc.  And energy beings would likely be animals interest in people purely as parasites.I read that same story from someone else that reptilians were a race billions of years old and then this race called asa-rrr came and waged war.  I eventually saw they came to earth to mine for gold.  A race billions of years old would be able to shift the strings that make up reality (string theory) to change whatever they want to gold with ease. Bitcoins should be a currency and be somewhat close to the new universal currency, the euro, which is usually about $1.50.All this extra price has caused people to buy all these mining rigs and mine coins.  I think this hurts bitcoins.  Mining should be done as a hobby.  Mining should be done by individuals with cheap NVIDIA cards at 1Mhash/sec not for money but just to get a sample of bitcoins.When mining for a month on normal hardware (not expensive stuff miners use), gets you less than one bitcoin a month, it's bad.  Mining should be to get people something to play with, not as a profit.  It's best if electricity costs more than mining so it's worthwhile for some kid who just wants to buy a dime bag on The Silk Road to mine for a month to get that $10 plus shipping to try it.  I do support mining pools as they make it easier for people with cheaper hardware to get a few coins without buying them, however currently mining for a month with cheap computers most people have (not the mining rigs and expensive video cards most miners have) won't even get one bitcoin.I'm not speculating if it will fall this low.  I am just saying it would be good for bitcoins. Bitcoins are not going back up. "The stock is crashing, when it hits 18, buy it all." -- Wall Street, the movie.I am waiting for bitcoins to reach $18/coin then I buy. I hope it falls to a penny so I can get a lot. Last time it did that I held onto them and they never came back up.  So I learned to sell early in a freefall and wait to buy later.  But I don't think it will go back up from when it hits bottom at $3. Someone told me the more threads posted in this forum, the more it makes the price drop.  I'd like it to drop to a penny so I can get me lots of bitcoins. This is actually true.  David Icke said he was basically Alex Jones until he had all these spiritual experiences and spirits telling him this or that.  Basically he has spirits controlling him while at the same time he says the world leaders who are reptilians are not actually reptilians but people who are slightly hybrids and just controlled by "fourth dimensional reptilians" (spirits). It might drop to 4 and then just sit at 4 for a month. I hope it doesn't rally up now while I'm still waiting to buy.  So far none of the big buy attempts have lasted. Thing is, people are expecting it to jump back up so they gotta rush to buy it when it hits bottom.  What if it bottoms out and doesn't rush back up so that means there's no rush to buy the coins? Why did someone just put up 2400 coins for sale at $6.80 at Mt. Gox?
Someone bought 2500 coins from 7.50-7.60 about 8 hours ago and the price didn't go up at all except for his bid, then it fell and fell.  Lots of miners are quitting. Well I'm going to sleep in about 5 minutes.  If it jumps while I am asleep, I will be pissed.  I am drinking a lot of water so it will wake me up every few hours to check on Mt. Gox. I think it will bottom at $5. I'm still waiting to buy.  I hope it doesn't suddenly go way up while I sleep.  I've got my iphone next to my bed so I can look and see if it does, but it looks like it will keep falling for a little longer. Most of them are people I know. I'm an older nerd, but younger nerds have no problem getting girls.  Even one guy who was in lulzsec I saw on a news article he never left his room except to go to the bathroom but had a hot girl go to him for a purely physical relationship.  And that's just one example. Hey so next time I sell my coins, I'll open lots of topics and the price will fall? I only seem to be able to buy and sell in USD now.  If Gox allows lots of currencies then it will be a cheaper version of the forex website.  I wonder how Gox will even out all the different currencies vs.  bitcoins. How can we do that, airdata? No we need to attract money launderers and tax evaders. I don't understand why.  I would think it would do the opposite like gold.Anyone have a graph of US dollar value vs. bitcoin value that's up to date with early September? It takes a couple days to transfer funds though and people think bitcoins will crash more. I have Schwab.  I am charged $2-3.  Schwab then refunds me at the end of the month for those fees. discuss In 2140 one of these will happen:* Rise of The Apes* Skynet takes control of the world* Skynet did rule the world, but The Sage of Six Paths (Naruto) learned how to manipulate bio-energy into superpowers (e.g. Rock Lee of Naruto moves faster than a vampire), taught people it, and they faught off the machines. @Stephen GornickYeah, but if you deposit it in a bank, it leaves a record the IRS sees.  And anything over $3000 may get a suspicious activity report filed.The usefulness of  buying bitcoins with lots of pure cash is no paper trail and that is what will get people coming in. Thankfully I was wrong this time.  It is still tanking and my coins are sold off.But of course when I sleep it might sneak back up to $10 and then just sit there for a month.  It always jumps somewhere bad for me and sits there for a month. I did that in the crash about a month ago.  It never came back up and I wished I would've sold to buy it back at 5 or 6 dollars.  This time it could go even lower who knows?  When it started crashing below $10 a couple weeks ago, I sold and was glad because it quickly went to $8.I really thought it would have swung up by now but oddly it's still falling.  If you look at the front page of https://deepbit.net/, mining difficulty has decreased a little bit but it's still higher than July. Just lingering at 5 or 6 for a month before it jumps to some random price.From what I've seen, the price jumps somewhere and then just lingers and lingers. My guess is $10,000 a day.
fcmatt, the bidwall was for was buying not selling. grod will you buy at $24/coin now?  I have lots ot sell you! Not instant.  Takes hours. @Bitcoin_Silver_SupplyIf I had the money, I would open businesses that do it right now. People like to put up bidwalls and let them sit for weeks with no hurry to buy or sell coins.  And if the wall stays for a month, they're fine.If they're buying the coins to use, they would just buy them.  If they're buying them to invest, then this bidwall would drive the price the other way and the only way it would be reached is if the currency is rising or selling a lot to make their buy or sell a money loser.So it would seem they do this to manipulate the market and keep it high or low.Anyone know for sure?? 1) Right now Mt. Gox lets you trade cash for bitcoin, but only $500 a day mailed.  We need a service in big cities that will let someone buy much larger amounts.  Obviously it must be below $10,000 daily or those stupid CTRs would have to be filed.  See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Currency_transaction_report http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Structuring http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suspicious_activity_report2) Sell cars for bitcoins plus $1 cash.  Report value of car sold for $1 cash, which saves the buyer a lot of money in government fees.  There's got to be a way to do this so it's legal.  Maybe $1 cash plus a flashdrive and the flash drive contains login to a Mt. Gox account with lots of bitcoins in it (this is easier than a bitcoin wallet because wallets require loading of around a gig of transaction data).3) Same as #2 but for real estate. Stupid people tend to breed because they don't see that children are a lot of work. Right after I sold it, some tricky bastard put a 2500 coin bidwall at 7.50 then I thought it was going to raise so I bought.  Then he made it vanish so I sold.  30 minutes later he came back and made it 7.55, then 7.60 for hours.  I was so pissed I figured if it starts raising back up, I'm just withdrawing them all and never coming back.I stopped watching and left.Thankfully, he quit buying and it dorpped to 7.15. Well I only have so much money in there and eventually I sell or buy all of them. Every time on Mt Gox I sell my coins, the price starts going up.  Every time on Mt Gox I buy coins, the price starts going down.  Every single time. And how the difficulty is, even if lots of people quit mining, the difficulty will adjust so we keep getting the same number of coins mined so there's no end to it until it drops below what it's profitable for miners to sell at. Go to sleep seeing huge bid walls around $7.50Wake up and see them all taken out and coins below $7.40Bidwalls count for squat.  Someone is manipulating the markets. Someone said they only use stamps as postage, not stuff bought where they can track the purchases.  And they just put it in an envelope without a return address. @bitconformistEveryone is skimming what I said.  Law is they must be at least 1000 feet. Let's all switch to solidcoins. He's still doing shit.  This year he is crossdressing. You can read about him.  He's very famous.http://www.sonichu.com/cwcki/Main_PageI'd like to find a way for him to make videos mentioning bitcoin somehow. No farmers.  When it's rural, it was desert and no farms.  Else it was in the city with no farms either. I mentioned before and I'll mention again, each time I lived very far from airports.These are also little tiny planes, not jets people are flying low.I have even called the FAA and they said they have no idea why people are doing this. David Icke was right!  The invasion was all about Illuminati bankers making a new world order!
The government will intercept large amounts of cash going in or out of the country. I've lived in lots of places.  Rural, residential, never near airports.  And yet all these people with airplanes have to fly them about 50 feet above the ground.  I'm not talking police helicopters, but regular airplanes.  Law is they must fly them 1000 feet above the ground.  But they just fly their airplanes 50-100feet off the ground and do that whenever they fly them.  And it's very common, dozens of them each day.Why... is it just to be noisy? @SynapticThere was a Wikipedia article about how the US government in the 20th century forced everyone to hand over their gold, and if I remember correctly, it was for no compensation either. This is what they all just started doing years ago. I don't mind if it's unstable, I just don't like how it's unstable.  It sits in an artificial stablity for several weeks, then it jumps to some new artificial stability.  This is bad.I would like if it stablized at around the same point and jumped a few bucks up and down but always stayed mostly around the same point. Governments can't seize your bitcoin.  You can hide it on a flashdrive or you can just turn your wallet.dat into some pattern on clothing to hide it. Here is how it changed mine.  This is not copypasta.I started Bitcoin mining quite a while ago. I already had a decent build with 2 5850s in crossfire that I used for gaming. After mining for a while, I earned enough money to buy more mining hardware from Newegg and Amazon. In the end, I had a total of 4 PCs with 2 5850s in each of them, except for 1 of them, which had 3 5850s. I won’t bother listing all the specs, since they’re nothing special aside from the 5850s.I overclocked the core clocks of the 5850s to squeeze a little more performance out of them, and underclocked the video ram in order to reduce heat. I had them running at 100% fan speed to try and cool them off a little better, but they still got pretty hot anyway.I’m a freshman in college and unfortunately still live with my parents (living in a dorm is too expensive), so I don’t really have any other place to put my PCs except in my own room. So I kept all 4 machines in my bedroom, which is not very big. So they were pretty close to my bed.My parents’ house doesn’t have central heating/AC, but instead we have window AC units that we install in the summer, and space heaters for the winter. However, I procrastinated and didn’t install the AC unit in my room because it wasn’t too hot yet. They are big, bulky, and heavy, so I didn’t want to do it until I absolutely had to. But, being the summer, it did eventually get hotter. Faster than I had anticipated.One day, when I was sleeping (yes, I sometimes sleep in the day due to being up very late at night/early in the morning), it got very hot. And I still didn’t have the AC unit installed in my room, and my 4 mining rigs were still mining bitcoins (I left them on 24/7), generating lots of heat. It was extremely hot. I eventually woke up due to the heat, but it was already too late.I had a terrible heat stroke, and it was quite frightening and disorienting. I not only felt physically terrible, having trouble breathing and terrible nausea, but I was also mentally and emotionally confused and saw all sorts of unpleasant hallucinations (but after doing some googling, apparently that’s normal for people who have heat strokes). I eventually staggered out of my room, which took quite a lot of effort, and my parents saw that I wasn’t doing too well and then realized I needed medical attention.They rushed me to the ER, and at this point I was barely conscious so I don’t remember everything, but they put bags of ice on me and made me drink tons of liquids. I have no idea how long it lasted, because every second felt like an hour. It was terrible.After I was in a stable condition, they did some general check-up stuff to make sure that I didn’t have any organ damage or something, and I told them that my head felt awful, so they did either a CT scan or MRI scan (I forget which is which, but it was some scan or another of my head), and said I basically had minor brain damage (they used a fancier term for it, but I forgot exactly what it was… but it was basically just minor permanent brain damage). I don’t notice much of a difference in my ability to think… it’s not as if I’m mentally retarded or anything now, but even so, no brain damage is good.I eventually went back home and rested up for a while. My parents installed the AC unit in my room before I went back in. I just slept and drank lots of water for a couple days. I had mostly recovered from the heat stroke, but my body was still dehydrated, so I needed to rest and drink more fluids. And during this time, I turned off all of my PCs. Only the AC was running in my room.I am aware that this was all my fault and that it could have prevented it, but it’s too late to change anything now. And after all this, I am no longer going to do any bitcoin mining. I will probably sell my mining rigs, or maybe find some other purpose for them. But they definitely won’t be on at full load 24/7 like I used to have them, even though I have a good AC unit in my room.And despite this whole situation being rather shitty, I still feel pretty damn lucky. Heat strokes can be fatal if they aren’t treated quickly enough. But fortunately for me, I was able to get treated in time. A little brain damage is still better than death, after all. It still sucks, but it also could’ve been worse.In conclusion, if you are mining bitcoins, or plan on mining bitcoins, make sure that your hardware doesn’t get too hot, and if you’re like me and have your hardware in your bedroom, definitely make sure you have AC! Don’t repeat the same mistakes I made. Even if it only feels a little more warm than usual, you never know if the weather will get worse. Now most keyboards have the home, end, delete, page up, and page down keys mashed together and sideways while the insert key is shoved up where it doesn't go. Gold has practical value:* electronics* decoration on pimp outfits My point is that it's not stable.  It seems to stablize for a month, then jumps somewhere else the next month.  It would be nice if it stayed the same amount and just swung about $2-3 dollars every few days but continued to stay the same amount.When will there be stability?  When we get enough websites going like "Okay $X per bitcoin is our exchange rate and we won't change it more than once a month".  Then people will get accustomed to that price. Bitcoin stablized around $13-14 then collapsed.Bitcoin stablized around $10-$11 then collapsed.Bitcoin is presently stablizing around $8-$9.Then it will collapse. "Next shitcoin fork to come out is gonna get raped." Nasakioto, you are Japanese so what's your favorite anime?  Mine is Naruto. smoothie??  He criticized forks and then supported them in his signature. A guy came to Tinychan and Minichan back in spring 2010 telling us about bitcoins.  He claimed he was Satoshi on these forums.  I was new to bitcoins and didn't realize that was the name of the founder of bitcoins.  But maybe it was him.  He did say not to tell people this. I had a good quote on a website I was making that was going to be exclusively bitcoin.  Unfortunately I couldn't get any visitors, didn't have millions to advertise and shut it down 11 months ago.One good quote was the more laws you make, the more criminals you make or something of that nature.  Then the more people learn, the stranger the world becomes. Vladimir, that's why I made this thread.  People create forks without serious investments in how to create an improvement to bitcoin.  We really need to spend a year at least working on making an improved bitcoin and then it is crucial that the founders set aside a bunch of coins so if bitcoins crash because their new currency replaces it, they can give them the new kind of coins in exchange for bitconis.  Without this later thing, you devalue bitcoins and thus ruin your new currency.smoothie, ironic that you criticize forks when you give a namecoin address for donations. After seeing this http://www.libertariannews.org/2011/08/30/bitcoin-fbi-admits-to-engaging-in-infiltration-disruption-and-dismantling-of-competing-currencies/Is it possible for all that mining power and difficulty be traded for better encryption? She might have and they had trouble tracing her cell phone. Drug cartels have to smuggle money across the  border as well as drugs.  Wire transfers leave records governments can view.  And they can't trust any banks not to let their money be seized for drugs.So if they smuggle it via bitcoins, that'll make mining profitable again for Hawaii residents.
This island will be a protectorate of the USA and so it can't have libertarian laws that upset society too much.  Obviously it won't legalize rape or murder, but it might you know:* If your neighbor's dog barks nonstop, you can shoot the dog in self defense* Gets rid of copyright and patent laws* No laws of sexual pruditry* All the US bills named with Orwellian doublespeak (e.g. Patriotic Act, Clear Skies Act, Healthy Forests Act) will be officiall referred to by honest names.Etc.That kind of thing would make people in the US to complain and the freedoms would be taken away. Tell college students to tell their local drug dealer to tell their supplier. Well the guy who posted them not only is non-anonymous, he is trying to get a good reputation again. Common decency? Authorities arrived.  Took them 30 minutes to get there. Bruce, you posted the email addresses publically without any obfuscation.  They now have been scraped and will be spammed to death. Not trolling here but well we need to contact people running drug cartels, tax evasion, money laundering, etc. and tell them to invest in bitcoins.  This will drive the price up We need to email these governments ourselves alerting them to bitcoin. Well if a libertarian island starts having laws the US doesn't like, then they won't defend it.  If the island abolishes all those sex laws like age of consent, age of pornography, age of prostitution, etc. then the USA will let it be invaded.  Also if it becomes a haven for drugs and software piracy, they'll let it be invaded. Atheism is a form of pantheism. and transaction fees also aren't worth it and then everyone just stops mining?And so there's no new transactions updated?  This might happen if bitcoin keeps dropping. 48% A powerful nation can come in and conquer these tiny island nations because they could never pack enough military to fight off a much larger nation like China or even North Korea. I'm just asking because it says in the article his family came from there.  I thought it was political propaganda because David Icke found this guy from 17th century Virginia who was the ancestor of both Bush and Obama (ancestor was white as Obama is half white).  David Icke believes all US presidents have similar bloodline ancestry, illuminati/reptilian/etc. It's fallen below $8Freefall inevitable! Bitcoin is falling and falling steadily. All these alternate cryptocurrencies are propped up solely by the success of bitcoin.  Making a whole bunch of them purely as a get rich scheme instead of as a way to solve internet money hurts bitcoin.What a good replacement needs is some built in way for when bitcoin loses its value that bitcoins can be traded in for this new currency at some similar value.  If a founder can't be trusted to do it manually, then maybe something can be coded in. Snopes denies it fully but I found this http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/barack-obamas-uncle-has-been-arrested-and-held-as-illegal-immigrant/story-e6frg6so-1226124269032 Would it be possible for a cryptocurrency to have this...?Transactions older than one year are purged from the history?  And would there be a way for the wallet itself even if history is gone and no transactions now to simply state that it has X amount of coins without transaction history?This would help scalability a lot. It could just be that game.  It's extremely buggy.
http://au.news.yahoo.com/thewest/a/-/world/10063482/teen-calls-mum-as-bears-eat-her/Olga's distraught mother Tatiana listened on a mobile phone as her teenage screamed: "Mum, the bear is eating me! Mum, it’s such agony. Mum, help.""Mum, the bears are back. She came back and brought her three babies. They’re... eating me."Mum, it’s not hurting any more. I don’t feel the pain. Forgive me for everything, I love you so much." Some cheaper video cards don't even have fans.  Could they burn out from heat? http://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/ciencia/esp_ciencia_oro14.htm What will need to be done is some way to simplify and clean out transactions over a year old.So then my idea makes sense.  Take like 0.01 transaction fees and then miners get so many coins (e.g. 50) and subtracted the transaction fees from the coins generated.Transaction fees appear to be added to bitcoin later on.  Did Satoshi plan on this at all?Well we'd need people honorable.  Like American CEOs when they mess up, they get a huge bonus, then flee the corporation.  But Japanese CEOs take pay cuts.  http://www.escapistmagazine.com/news/view/111963-Nintendo-CEO-Takes-50-Pay-Cut  or I suppose one eventually may commit seppuku.Maybe it can be built into the software where there is some kind of innate transferability with bitcoin.  Something will eventually replace bitcoins, but it could be maybe not for 10 years.  But when it happens, it needs some built in system to guarantee some way to pay some token value to bitcoins so they don't crash to worthless, but just crash to low level. Guys, we are not supposed to make new cryptocurrencies with the purpose of making money on them by mining.  This is all you ever think of!To make a proper currency, it needs to fix all the problems with bitcoins, or as much as possible.Here's main ones for people adopting it:1)Forget the wallet websites which get hacked and aren't the purpose of bitcoin.  Download the software and start it up.  Well, despite that bitcoin has been around about a year and a half and hardly has been used, it takes minimum 60 hours on a high speed cable modem to finally download all that stuff from peers.  And then it stores that stuff not neatly in a bitcoin directly, but it hides it in some windows directory.  I don't know why it takes so long since it's only about 750 megabytes and that takes me under ten minutes to download that off a torrent.But imagine ten years from now with bitcoins actually being used a whole bunch and then a newbie tries to start bitcoins and they have to download 100 gigs of stuff.  And the peers go slow so it'll be very long, maybe a month of running the client.When I've transferred my wallet.dat, I have the same thing of having to download all the transactions again.  This is really bad.2)Despite all this CPU power devoted to mining, they can't use it to make transactions not take hours to complete.In http://solidcoin.info/faq.php it mentions, "A pump-n-dump is when a large mining operating (known as a pool) decides for some reason to mine another chain than Bitcoin, usually for profit purposes but in some cases for malicious/childish reasons. They mine and mine, until the difficulty is so high it's no longer profitable, they then jump ship, leaving the difficulty so high it sometimes takes months to fix."  I don't understand how this works, but mining should do two things (a) generate new coins when the currency is stagnant, (b) if there's lots of activity then it should not generate any new coins but simply process transactions and take transaction fees, something fixed at like 0.01 coin.Yes, about part b, I am serious.  We have enough bitcoins so mining ideally would stop generating coins.  This needs to be based not just on transactions but on the general money flow and it needs to be done in a way so people hoarding coins and sending it back and forth between their wallets can't cheat this.  I posted in https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=111.msg927#msg927 "Will occasional losses of bitcoin wallets limit available maximum bitcoins?" and even Satoshi chimed in.  But well with this idea, if there's not enough coins in circulation, then it'll make more but when there's plenty in circulation, then miners are paid transaction fees instead.  And so it's not 100 coins a block, then 50, then 25, then none but let's say it's 50 coins a block minus transaction fees.  So if there's 40 coins worth of transaction fees, then miners get 50 coins but only 10 new ones are made.  And if there's over 9000 coins in transaction fees, then miners make a lot in transaction fees.  This way, miners are paid to process transactions.Also solidcoin made its blocks at 3 minutes.  Thinking ahead, these should be 30 seconds maximum.  Since miners either join pools or have fast hardware, this won't be an issue.  I personally think 5 seconds would be ideal and then basically 5 seconds and then a fraction of a coin.......Okay well if you guys think of more, let me know.Now once an alternative is done, that's not it.  The creators need to mine it harder than the founder of ixcoin mined coins.  They need a couple million coins sitting in a trust.  These are not to be sold, but to be used should bitcoin or some previous cryptocurrency completely turn obsolete.  Then people with the bitcoins will be given some value for their coins based on the honor of the founders of this system.  This way people have faith in bitcoins and this new system too.  This is extremely important once something replaces bitcoins.  Founders mine lots of coins, then hold them to support the previous cryptocurrency.Obviously the people starting it need to be honorable.  If you make it just to make money mining, you are doomed.  When bitcoins began, it was an awesome idea and coins were worthless and wasn't about mining to get you rich, but a long term investment in a fixing internet commerce. Just wondering.  I am buying a card purely for game playing and games like Star Wars Knights of The Old Republic 2 only run on NVIDIA cards. There's ways to set up and go through lots of PayPal accounts without linking them and withdraw the money, but it's a lot of work and it would mean charging a high commision to buyers, which I'm not sure people would be okay with. Is there anything on the internet that can be linked to a currency system that if no one wanted to use the currency system, what it's linked to would still have some worth?Like if we used unique non-fake nude photos of celebrities as currency, well they'd be worth something. I looked it up and you were right.  Oh and I read both his books for free too, but offline.  Public library. No matter how much good people hear about Ron Paul, fact is...Ron Paul does not believe in evolution and thinks it should not be taught in schools.Libertarians consider him a bad example. http://whistleblowers.posterous.com/dailytech-inside-the-mega-hack-of-bitcoin-the"The Diamond Age: Or, A Young Lady's Illustrated Primer, in which digital cryptocurrency was mentioned as a driving force that eliminated the nation state by destroying their ability to collect taxes from citizens."Two thousand years ago governments collected taxes like this...They went around and depending on how rich you were, they just told you it was tax time and to give them money.  If you were poor, you gave them something else like food (farmer).  If you built something and lacked money, you might build things for the government.If all the rich have their money in bitcoins, they'd be like, "Give me some of your valuable paintings, jewelry, etc." though you could also just pay them bitcoins instead but they'd take something.And actually this would be a better form of taxation.  No tax loopholes or anything.  The government just surveys your place, sees you have a lot, and they take it.Oh and as for hiding stuff, they were always going around thinking the rich and sometimes the poor were hiding things.  In movies about 1500+ years ago, they governments sent armies around to find people's hidden assets.But yeah as I said, the governments can always tax people.  And if they tax based on wealth instead of all these loopholes, then it distributes wealth better...  well... except that the wealthy influence government too much. I was planning on PayPal to freeze my account at some point.  I just can't have it happen too often unless I can find a way to empty a PayPal account without withdrawing it to a bank account or requesting a check. I thought that was the novel he wrote where he pretended Alan Turing was still alive.  Crypto-something. I could only do this for USA buyers because of how PayPal's seller protection policy works.1) Someone sends me money via PayPal2) I then ship to their confirmed address with delivery confirmation the cheapest first class way which costs a little over $2 with packing.  The post office must not screw up and must get delivery confirmation to the correct zip code, as sometimes they put the wrong zip code.  If they amount is over $250 then I need to ship signature confirmed, but I would prefer not to get large amounts in one transaction.  If the buyer is buying something else online and shipping starts after they sent the payment, then I can use that tracking # instead.3) Then I subtract shipping cost (unless they supplied a tracking # for me) and PayPal fees from the amount.  I then take a small commission to cover my other expenses (which is mainly dealing with PayPal and all their verification processes and stalking, but also is the commision from buying bitcoins and then transferring it out to my walet).4) Then with what's left over I buy bitcoins.  I then send the bitcoins to the buyer's bitcoin address and email them an invoice.If people are interested, I could start this up. I read that book 10 years ago and it was really really sick.  But I don't remember a cryptocurrency in it. @payb.tcI was refering to the graph. @Jack of DiamondsThat's just who hangs out on these forums, not who mines.  I'd think we'd have a lot of people mining from third world countries. The drop has happened earlier than I predicted.  I wonder what the price will be in a week's time?  Will it continue to fall or will it rebound back to its original $10? There was a movie based on this idea about 20 years ago. I did something similar except I put them all into bitcoins and when they were $14/coin too!
I make all my income from the mining of bitcoins! Now it's an image macro. Maybe not everyone lives in a country where they can use dwolla and some have to use a wire transfer or some other means that costs a bunch and so they do it less often.  It would likely be in a country where the wages and cost of living are both very low and mining pays 10x better than a typical job.  What baffles me though is why it starts after the start of the month instead of a week before. The only way to improve bitcoins is to base them on some kind of real wealth.  Yes, they're based on the cost of electricity, but once electricity is used, then it's lost rather than storing it as a battery.The problem with fiat currency for the US dollar.Consider what banks in the USA do.  These videos explain it better than I can.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=peiTfY7Bx4chttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OdtnPrHVHM4Basically banks create a credit bubble lending imaginary wealth and putting a lot of money in circulation, then they take all that money out of circulation and people can't get loans, there's unemployment.  Then when people have no more of this imaginary wealth, the banks can then get the people's real wealth, their houses, their land, their businesses, their cars, etc.Namecoin tries to be based on real wealth, but it's based on the whole domain name cybersquatting (cybersquatting of nontrademark names is legal) wealth by cybersquatting (people who do it try to make people call it by some euphamism) of a massive load domain names and then trying to scalp them for a higher price.  I don't know what it should be, but there needs to be a better real wealth basis than this.  I also thought about basing it on some kind of advertising, but it's too complicated to keep people from cheating for it to work.Another idea was something like a Tor network of IP hiding that generates coins that way, but it's too ephemeral instead of being a permanent real wealth.Maybe somebody here can find a way to base bitcoins on real, lasting wealth. I've seen this several times.  The miners and the small merchants who sell in bitcoin will wait till the end of the month when lots of expenses come due.  Then they all sell.  Then the price drops.  Then when this happens, the many speculators and tradebots sell their coins and it spirals down. If that was true, then they could find the coins stolen from mybitcoin or whatever it was and then get them all back and arrest the people who stole the coins. The claims of how to get out are a lie.  I've been on the forum for 1.5 years.  I originally could post anywhere.  I then stopped going to the forum for over year.  Now despite tons of posts, years spent on the board, threads made about it, and multiple whitelist requests nothing.I'm guessing the people getting out are bribing the admins. The claims of how to get out are a lie.  I've been on the forum for 1.5 years.  I originally could post anywhere.  I then stopped going to the forum for over year.  Now despite tons of posts, years spent on the board, threads made about it, and multiple whitelist requests nothing.I'm guessing the people getting out are bribing the admins. I've been on the board for a year and a half.  My old posting history even shows I used to post outside here.It seems 99% of all real conversations are trapped on this one board.  Ridiculous.  Mods are doing a terrible job! I registed a year and a half ago.  I used to be able to post anywhere.  I came back this summer and could only post here.  I made a thread about this how my account is so old and has more than 17 posts and still I can only post here.This needs to be moved to the speculation board.  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?board=57.0Post is below....---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------If you have a lot of money, with bitcoins:1) The IRS (government tax collectors) can't touch them.2) No law enforcement can touch them.3) No ex-wife and her lawyer can get them.4) Nobody filing a frivilous lawsuit can get them.5) You can back up your wallet, then encrypt the files, then disguise them as jpgs, obscure them with a bunch of jpgs, then hide them on flashdrives you have burried in the desert.Compare this to banks.Bitcoin's value may be wonky, but one day when I have a lot of money, I will put them in bitcoin to protect myself. I registed a year and a half ago.  I used to be able to post anywhere.  I came back this summer and could only post here.  I made a thread about this how my account is so old and has more than 17 posts and still I can only post here.Posts:    17Date Registered:    April 15, 2010, 12:02:40 am I still cannot post except this forum! 50 tries to registerEither (a) the captcha, (b) my pin that I reenter they they falsely don't recognize it as a number.And each time the form doesn't work, I have to re-enter my password, re-enter the pin, re-enter the CAPTCHA.And of course it makes the password have to have a capital letter, which isn't any safer, just is a pain.And after registering, the same password that I just entered 50 times suddenly does not work because the website is sadistic.  So I have to do password recovery to be able to log into my account.Signs of a terrible website. Date Registered:    April 15, 2010, 12:02:40 amI haven't posted for over a year.Posts:    14 (0.030 per day)(made 12 before today)So I should be able to post elsewhere but I come back and I cannot? I posted like at least 5 posts over a year ago and now I can't post except here.  I didn't know what was going on in this board. Oh my god finally a reply button appeared.  My account is over a year old and I haven't used it since then and it seems posting is impossible anywhere! Could the bitcoin network be destroyed by someone generating endless bitcoin addresses nonstop?  I mean it sounds like it would do something really bad to it.I'm pretty sure at some point a website will take payments in bitcoins and will decide to generate a new bitcoin address for each payment and end up endlessly generating new addresses like mad and do something bad to the network.  Then more will start in. For a website taking payments with bitcoins, which is better: taking payments through IP solely or using tons of bitcoin addresses that you have to reuse and reuse?And why? Hmm wouldn't it be better simply to have them send to your static IP and then put their account name and likely some reference number in the message instead?I'm pondering which one is better to do. My thanks to laszlo and possibly others for sending me sample bitcoins.May I have a bitcoin address to send payment to?Now that I'm familiar with receiving, I just want to test sending so I'm familiar with things when I set it up on my website.
