I believe the swap is still possible. I see the Telegram chat has been blocked. What's that about? Try this onehttps://discord.gg/Gd99P7Df Now this is some interesting speculation around Hiveterminal:https://www.soldonhive.com/articles/p/investor-who/ I'm looking to sell a large quantity of LATX.If anyone is looking for a 0.5+ BTC chunk of LATX, message me on here. What?! How can that be? I would keep bugging them. That isn't right. Try waves.exchangeI've found the support team responsive. That is good.Will this get us back on CoinGecko? Why do you think the buyback had no effect on the price?Where do you think the price would be if there hadn't been four buybacks? I was reading about this Microsoft patent yesterday:https://patentscope.wipo.int/search/en/detail.jsf?docId=WO2020060606and realized this is kind of what the Blitzcoin project was doing with Fitalize 4 years ago. Glad to hear rumblings from you Ltex! @adamastor Yes, PM me with your offer. Well, isn't it risky because we are a small coin with not a lot of hash behind it.If we were an Ethereum token we would be tradeable on Uniswap and never have to worry about being listed on an exchange again. Or need to worry about maintaining wallets.In terms of Defi, or even CeFi, here's an idea:-if Mikki can build it, I can offer 0% loans to Icelanders, denominated in AUR, collateralized 100% in BTC or ETH. Basically what I'm saying if any Icelandic crypto-holders don't want to sell their BTC or ETH to raise "cash", they can borrow against it in AUR. Assuming this is legal in Iceland of course!-Secondly, I'm looking to spend my AUR. Have you got something interesting to sell? Antiques? WWII or WWI memorabilia? Electronics? Gift cards? Automobiles? Let me know. You don't need to be in Iceland. Just need to be able to ship to Canada.-Finally, if you want something I can supply I'll accept AUR. Maybe something you want from Canada specifically (maple syrup!)  Auroracoin needs to think of a DeFi angle for Icelanders!Also, maybe it is time to think about moving to become a token on Ethereum, Solana or Polkadot. LOL you sound like Piston Honda on every other thread I see him on.However, you surely must know that these small cryptos go up and down 40% all the time. Doesn't mean much. Thanks again xxmetalmartyrxx.A feature enhancement I'd suggest is when we buy more DAM, we can add it to our current locked-in DAM without unlocking the original stash (and thereby re-setting the counter). Now this was helpful.I'm not particularly new to crypto, but I'm not well-versed on minting methods other than PoW. Perhaps there are others out there like me. For dummies like me it would be helpful to have explanations in plain English without jargon.I guess another question I have is 'why are there two tokens'. Why not have staking DAM create more DAM? Are there other projects out there with this 2-token approach? I'm glad to see I'm not the only one mystified by the whole Datamine ecosystem.Thank you NationalPotato and others who have been asking questions about this Flux burning/minting circle.Hopefully at some point Datamine will provide a clear answer as to what is the use case of Flux other than burning to create more flux.Also, it's odd to see PistonHonda on this thread. When I've encountered him on bitcointalk before he's generally been slamming projects. Here he seems to be a cheerleader. Maybe PH can elucidate the purpose of this project for us. Is the requirement to unlock before locking additional DAM by design, or is this a possible future feature? Here it is. You had to Google under 'vostok' rather than 'west': https://medium.com/wavesprotocol/vostok-token-airdrop-to-be-extended-1981fd5520aaThen according to this Reddit post you send 0.0001 WAVES to 3PBNiHBcp8rxiYkGVGNHEGZHEamb1aXeWVvhttps://www.reddit.com/r/Wavesplatform/comments/brpxpl/how_to_join_vostok_airdrop/**UPDATE**According to the helpdesk at waves.exchange and the Waves community telegram group, we're out of luck. There was some deadline last summer. Not sure how that is, since stage 1 of the airdrop seems to have been purely snapshot driven, but there you have it. If you find out anything different please let us know.
Speaking of WEST, anyone know how Waves holders were supposed to collect the WEST airdrop? I'm a DeFi noob with a dumb question: what is the benefit of the two-token system that DAM has implemented? Why Flux and not just Dam? I was just reading about the Waves Enterprise WEST token airdrop to Waves holders.Does anyone have a link to instructions on how to claim this?  Then I have to ask, why are you here on a thread that he started, and that is devoted to his prognostications?  It's strange because you're not understanding what we're discussing.Never mind. It isn't important. Seems to be working again now. You missed the point. You think you 'lose' only if you sell an asset. And you probably think you 'win' only if you sell it. Those ideas may be true when you calculate your taxes, but I'm not convinced they're true otherwise. I never understood this statement.You think if you don't sell your car it hasn't depreciated? Try using it as loan collateral. Every time I 'check-in' on Obyte I'm amazed.If there is another project out there that is delivering as much, and is so under the radar, I'd like to hear about it. Obyte deserves to be trading much, much higher.Keep up the great work Obyte team. Anyone using this site? Previously this was an epic scam... beware in case it is the same operator. Anyone know why Iceland has such a high rate of Covid-19? Is it because there has been a lot of testing as compared to other countries? Would be nice if ISX.is would allow non-Icelanders to sign-up and trade AUR/BTC. I really appreciate how, in a world of failing crypto projects, the team at CREA keeps developing and pushing forward.Keep up the great work! I was just looking through my Ethereum wallet and found a bunch of DREAM in there, deposited in the first half of 2019.I don't have a record of ever purchasing these. Was there an airdrop? Anyone know how to withdraw CVN from Bitshares to Huobi?Bitshares is only letting me transfer from one Bitshares account to another. Some ETH mysteriously showed up in my wallet. Is that the TAAS liquidation? Anyone else experience the same thing? As the title says, I'm trying to locate Darren Francheschini, who founded the blocksale.io project.Anyone know the whereabouts of this formerly-from-Toronto blockchain consultant? Can someone point me to a guide that explains how to vote for Shift delegates - and how delegates work in general? Can I ask where you go the February 2020 date from? That is news to me. This is starting to sell like a scam.Anyone get their final payout yet? I wonder if they've been selling our transferred tokens...
I received a message from Karmashark last week and he tells me it is still active, yes. Can someone point out a resource that explains the benefit of 'sidechains', as implemented by Blockpool?Also, is Blockpool traded anywhere at the moment? Can't find it even on altilly. Nevermind, found it: https://www.altilly.com/market/BPL_BTC Except the May and June distributions on their roadmap didn't happen. Has anyone actually received their termination payout yet? It would be professional - and so simple - to just send out a periodic update to their email list every once in a while. Hard to understand why more projects don't do that.  Has anyone received the final payout in the last two months?They initially indicated this would be wrapped up by the end of May, then in June, now we're half-way through July and they aren't replying to email.Have we been fleeced? Looks like there's a 100 BTC order for MAID at 1600 on Polo. Real deal?Pretty risky to put a fake bid there on this coin, someone might take you up on it! Anyone been able to import their private keys into the Bitcoin Hot QT wallet? I keep getting the error "Invalid private key encoding (code -5)" Once we've sent our TAAS to the contract address, how long until we can expect the payout? Any exchanges allowing deposits of this coin yet?Why do they block deposit and withdrawal? johnsmithx thanks for your work on this. Fantastic post.Now to figure out which coins can actually be deposited on exchange. Some of them (BitcoinX, Bitcoin File) actually have a value on exchanges that trade them, but they won't let you deposit. Anyone know of an exchange where these coins can actually be deposited?In the meantime, if you want to do an OTC trade for anywhere from 100-1000 coins, PM me. Can I still claim LBTC? I've imported my private key into the light wallet but the amount of LBTC granted was only 0.00051 instead of 3. Is there a wallet for this coin? Why nothing listed on the project website? He isn't asking WHO is the team, he's asking WHERE is the team. Big difference. I'm the same... I have screenshot AND the screenshot verified by the data hack dump and I was still rejected.Anyone know a good lawyer in Japan that understands English and the Mt. Gox mess? 1) Can the website publisher choose how many tokens he gives to referrers, or is it fixed at 1 token?If the price of Sharpay token rises too high, won't it become economically unfeasible for publishers to use Sharpay unless they can pay out fractions of a token?2) Is it technically possible for Sharpay to be implemented in a way that a social media leader on, say, YouTube can compensate his/her followers who share their content (without getting YouTube involved)? Thank you for these answers. Looking good.Is there a whitepaper or something that I can read that gives the 'full story' on SHARPAY?How much was raised during the ICO? Are there any tokens still available for purchase? I just came across this project by accident and I'm glad I did.Interesting concept that I think has some potential. I'm impressed at how well this project keeps everyone up-to-date across multiple channels. Very rare.Looks to me like the main task ahead is marketing. Is Sharpay building a sales team to go out and get larger websites to adopt it?Does Sharpay have a way of measuring how valuable a particular share is? For example, if I share to 50,000 followers on twitter do I receive more tokens than someone who shares to 10 followers?Do I receive more tokens if more people click on the link I shared? I did deposit my XRL on Rialto.ai back in December. Now I'm unable to connect to the Rialto.ai site. What has become of my tokens?
Where can I download the wallet for this? Moved wallet.dat from my Windows machine to Mac and the swap worked beautifully. I'm afraid that didn't fix it. And I do have a wallet.dat in the default folder.Perhaps it would be better if the app gave the user to select 'find automatically' or 'upload wallet.dat manually' before it tries to search for it. I'm having trouble with the swap. I've got the swap app loaded on my Windows 10 machine and have signed in with my creary.net account.However the loading wallet function never completes.... just spinning, spinning, spinning.Is there a way to manually upload the wallet so the app doesn't have to search for wallet.dat? . Hummmmm, isn't this a 90% discount to recent market price? Yes you send your coins to their address. Here are the instructions:https://redistribution.cofound.it/ Yes just received mine too.  Has Zappl died? Bless you. That worked. Is there a way to turn off the notifications that tell me when I mine 2.5 HLM?  Yes. It is dead. Just like the twitter, website, etc.I emailed Iconomi and they said the payouts would be happening but didn't say when and couldn't answer for all the dead contact links.Sloppy. The drama is alive and well though. I can't stop looking. They have actual crypto usage. . I doubt that. What makes you say so?I think a country like the Philippines, with a significant remittance economy, would be further along. Icelanders haven't even been able to buy bitcoin until relatively recently. Price cut to $400. I just found out about the wind-up of Cofound.it and sent my CFI to the burn address.The twitter account is dead, website newsletter sign-up is dead, email ervin@cofound.it is bouncing back.What are the chances there will ever be a second distribution? Has anyone heard from anyone at Cofound.it in the past month? Thank you so much for your help. If anyone is interested in doing an over the counter trade to buy my IMMLA at deep discount, PM me.1,716,000 IMMLA for $900 in BTC or ETH.Or make an offer.
I'm looking to unload 38716 Hush in the next week or so.Looking for best offers via PM.Minimum order size of 10000 Hush.  Thanks. PM sent. Sorry for posting in English but I don't know where to get Golos support in English.I'm getting this message when I try to withdraw Golos:Can anyone help? I haven't been following the Rialto project since the ICO, but recently received the email indicating I should register at Rialto.ai and deposit my tokens in order to participate in the equity distribution.And of course there is the talk of the token swap.I realize the token swap details haven't been announced yet, but I was wondering if anyone knows if simply leaving our tokens in MyEtherWallet or similar will result in our XRL tokens becoming worthless. That is different. Baldur burnt the unclaimed coins but also transferred 1,000,000 coins to the foundation for development of Auroracoin. As someone who has been an Auroracoin enthusiast since February 2014, I have to say I was a little surprised to read that the foundation had liquidated 80% of their AUR holdings.I believed in the Auroracoin idea in part because I thought Iceland was the ideal laboratory for this experiment: a geographically small, isolated region, with a technologically advanced populace with a long history of currency debasement and an extraordinary stockmarket crash due to banker machinations during the 2008 crisis.But I look at projects like Byteball, who have over 200 retailers accepting their currency in Milan, Italy and Bunz, also with hundreds of shops in Canada accepting their token, and I wonder why adoption of AUR has been glacially slow in Iceland.Its too bad some of the foundation funds weren't used over the past 3 years to fund development and adoption. Maybe the story would have been different, or maybe not. Maybe Iceland is not the ideal laboratory for this type of experiment after all. Just checked the SPR price on CMC.Wow! This thing has come full circle. Back to $0.014.If anyone is interested in selling large amounts (>50,000) I'm interested at 2 cents. Can't hurt to buy this lottery ticket again, can it? . You might want to look at what Byteball is doing in Milan, Italy to increase merchant adoption.They already have 124 businesses accepting Byteball: https://byteball.org/milan/milan/map.html It's listed on your website here: https://www.wetrust.io/#products I haven't been able to find much detail on Coinpool, the next application to be built on WeTrust.Does anyone know what it's about? Where is the main Mainframe discussion on Bitcointalk? I can't find the thread. Sure it's a lot easier with a couple million in ICO funds. I'm pretty sure the Helium team knew they wouldn't have a couple million in ICO funds since they had no plan to do an ICO. Nobody here is holding Helium to some timeline other than the one they themselves set. And really, people aren't even holding them to that. But there comes a point when missed deadlines become plain ridiculous. And anyway, the key players behind Helium may well have a million or more from the runup in their Spreadcoin holdings. I don't think it's a secret that they had many bags of Spread. So how long are you willing to wait then? 2 years? 5 years? 10 years? For you does Helium ever become a failed project?If you think BitConnect is the 'typical' ICO then you haven't been paying attention to what is going on out there. There are scores of quality projects with interesting tech and good use of blockchain.I don't think Helium is a scam, nor do I think they owe anybody anything. But there is a point when missed (self-imposed) deadlines become laughable. If people are that poor at setting their own timetable, maybe project management isn't their strongsuit. Looking to sell your Blitz? PM me with your amount and price. NEW THREADhttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1467050.0PLEASE STOP POSTING IN THIS THREAD.  I'm a Stratis ICO investor who really appreciates what Chris and the team has achieved here in terms of market cap. I'm still holding a few of those ICO coins but am now wondering if I should get back in for more given that price is almost 80% off the ATH.Recently, Blitzcash was delisted from Bittrex, the website disappeared, and there is zero activity regarding that project. This is giving me pause with respect to Stratis because of the overlap in team members between the two projects. I haven't been following Stratis development over the past 2 years, so I'm unaware of how far the project has come along.Is it safe to assume that Blitz (and TVE for that matter) have fallen by the wayside because all energies have been focused on Stratis? Or should I have a different perspective? Yes. Except unlike Twitter you can get paid when you post. 1. I see how I can upload photos, but where can I browse the photos that have been uploaded by others?2. How does Wemark compare to Photochain.io? Website is really well done. UI is terrific.What plans are there to get that critical mass of users?Where can I see the whitepaper in order to understand how the rewards system works
What day did the dividend get paid out? The user gets paid in STEEM or an SMT?How are the reward payouts calculated? I'm intrigued by Zap, which I just discovered yesterday. Seems like an undervalued project with a strong idea and strong team.Are there any competitors in this space? What is the point of them? I've yet to understand what they're trying to achieve.Maybe the $20 million custom bitcointalk forum software they've been working on for 7+ years will have that feature. No need for a link. All the discord is right here on bitcointalk. How is the world's most expensive forum software coming along?  NEW THREADhttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1467050.0 What does it mean that it is 'dual blockchain'? Surely I can't send tokens from the ETC chain to the Waves chain? thank you Things seem pretty quiet around here.I purchased Crypviser in the ICO last year. Now the ico.crypviser.net website is done.Where can I access my coins? Just found this in the Telegram announcements group:Question now is: how do we find out about the future claim opportunity? I thought I read somewhere that the QGUP airdrop claiming deadline had been extended to the end of 2018. Now I can't find that.Was I dreaming? No need to hang onto your SPR. Snapshot was taken months ago. Well if this project realizes the promise of Spreadcoin, then it's probably a good thing.Is that the plan? Just discovered this project this morning. Really interesting.Is there a whitepaper that explains how it works?Have all the stages of the ICO finished? I saw somewhere that the 2nd stage was done, but haven't found out about stages 3 thru 5. I just found out about Social Send today.Terrific idea. How are they going to do it? Is there a whitepaper or something that outlines how this is going to work from a technical standpoint? Looks like a VectorAI competitor hitting an exchange today:https://www.deepbrainchain.org/pc/indexEnglish.html Any updates VectorAI dev?  Read the image you posted. It says accounts will be closed, not that coins will be delisted. New post: 
Maybe the dev could answer this and give us a short update too. Why didn't you sell your SPR after the snapshot? You could have easily realized a buck a coin for it. Nevermind, its back up. Looks like the block explorer has been down for a couple days:https://cryptobe.com/chain/Vector EW analysis is all about the human factor. That's all its about. This is the 1% of cases. I'd recommend you familiarize yourself with what happened here before buying based on TA only. Found it, thank you! Bitcloud keeps crashing on open on my Mac, so I'm going to reinstall it.Before I do that though I want to backup wallet.dat.  Where do I find that on a Mac? Since this thread seems like it will be squatted on indefinitely, can I suggest one of you guys who speak Russian could start a new, highly moderated thread which is just used to cross-post our favourite Russian analyst's posts from VK and host discussion of the same? Maybe someone here who speaks Russian would be willing to go on VK and politely beg him to come back and post his thoughts here directly on occasion?  Where do you get that from? Because I think we saw that he revised that upwards. Or is it people just trying to get their post count up?Either way it's annoying. Does Oyster now have some sort of relationship with Ahoolee/Elementh? I'm sure this has been covered but darned if I can find it.I thought the jumblr airdrop was supposed to happen around this time. I'm holding my Komodo in my OSX wallet... should I see the jumblr in there automatically or is there a process to go through to claim them? The Slack link in the OP and on their website is dead. I think it is a result of lack of moderation. After the first page or so, most threads on BTCT are a waste of time. This thread is better than Days of Our Lives. Is there any reason why other developers, perhaps previous SPR team members, can't simply proceed to develop Spreadcoin and move the project forward without Georgem?I'm asking as a non-developer who doesn't fully understand how open-source development works. If this is true then Sia, which is quite far along in development, is already 1/3 cheaper than undiscounted Oyster. Is this correct? Look at the chart. In February the price was under $0.02. Then a new project called Helium announced they would give one Helium for each Spreadcoin users held at some point in the future.That 'point in the future' was earlier this week.Now, if the market is rational, the price will return to a level appropriate to the value of the Spreadcoin project only. You will need to decide for yourself if it would make sense for the price to return to February levels or not.
Glad to hear it. So something was holding Spreadcoin back, was it? And now it's gone? What was this giant tumor that was stunting the growth of Spreadcoin? No. Insider trading a cryptocurrency is criminal activity? In what jurisdiction? Telegram group is dead.Slack group is abandoned and filled with spam.Looked like a good idea with a nice UI and a low cap, but getting no love from the developers.Too bad. I'll avoid. Would be nice if they would post the instructions to the OP. Very cool project. Excellent use case for a token.However, am I right in understanding that users can donate tokens, but there is no place where they MUST spend tokens to get answers?If a person supplies good answers on a consistent basis, they should be able to charge a fixed price to converse with someone. That would create more demand for the tokens and thus upward price on the limited supply. **reserved** Website | Whitepaper | Download | FAQ | GitHub | Join Our Slack Channel | Intro VideoWebsite | Whitepaper | Download | FAQ | GitHub | Join Our Slack ChannelSocial MediaBounty campaign is coming soon!**PLEASE NOTE** This is a self-moderated topic that will be aggressively cleaned-up. Many topics quickly become cluttered with 'me-too' posts and FUDing and cheerleading that make threads useless for readers trying to find useful information. If you don't like how this topic is moderated, you are always free to start your own.I am posting this OP on behalf of ncoonrod In U.S. dollar terms, how much has Latium raised until now?Also, your Slack invite page is down. Anyone got any confirmation of that Snapchat news?Seems highly unlikely to me. Yeah, expect the price of one TAAS has gone up considerably from ICO too. So you have a capital gain and a dividend. They say the ICO hard cap is $10 million, but the roadmap talks about raising 100,000 ETH.Which is it?And no slack? Does this coin need a new vision, or will the original one suffice?Will the new developer be joining us soon? Helium airdrop to all holders of Spreadcoin. Based on August 1st (or shortly thereafter) snapshot.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1809278.0You get 1 Helium token for each Spreadcoin. I'm staking on two wallets. One on Mac, the other on Windows.Mac is working fine.Windows says it is staking, indicates my stake weight, network weight, and the expected time to earn a reward, but I never see a reward (neither confirmed nor unconfirmed) under Transactions. Nor does my balance change.Any ideas? I had the same problem. Had to download the full chain from cryptochainer.com Anyone know of a site tracking the 52 week high and 52 week low for altcoins?Meaning individually, not in the aggregate. Like Yahoo! Finance does for stocks. Thank you, that fixed it. I'm trying to sync my wallet, but no success.It gets to within about 90,000 blocks remaining and the sync process slows right down. I have 8 connections.So on my other computer I download the blockchain from the site John indicated and it quickly syncs up to date.I send some coins from my first wallet to the sync'd wallet but they won't confirm. They won't even show up in the block explorer.Next I backed up my unsync'd wallet and put it on the sync'd machine. All my transactions show up on the sync'd machine now, but I have zero balance of coins.Are my two machines on two different chains? Your persistence has been rewarded John. Congrats!
...and the avatar. Where is the properly-sized DeepOnion avatar that we need to upload? EVERYONE'S is empty after a while.Did you go to etherscan.io and look for your tokens? Very low cap ICO the way to go. With 100 million coins pre-mined, you're looking at a market cap of anywhere from $33 million to $100 million depending on the average investment.That feels high to me. Your ideas and plans certainly sound impressive (I'm not a developer) but not much is built so far. And projects with targets over $10 million tend to have a lot more disclosure on their website (ex: who the team is), a whitepaper of varying sophistication, and a clearly outlined token sale. There would probably be some sort of marketing effort as well. If you were targeting $10 million max, or even less, I would be very interested. Perhaps you can share your track record with us. What have you produced since founding your company in 2006? Following the pattern of bitcoin, shouldn't it be called the Ed? Or the Jason? Does anyone have a translation of the latest from https://vk.com/bitcoin_vanga for us? I'm looking to buy EQT in large batches (over 2 BTC).If you want to dump a lot without moving the market, PM me and we can negotiate a price. Do you mean we can claim every week, over and over? Anyone else get about 1-1.5% fewer tokens then they should have based on the prices posted on the ICO site? Quiet coin.Needs a developer with some creative ideas. Offer a bounty, maybe someone will come out of the woodwork to fix it.I understand your frustration. I have a wallet running fine on a Mac. Installed more than 6 months ago. Have been trying to get a wallet going on Windows 10. Zero success. Copied various node lists.If you can't get resolution on your own computer, maybe the .dat could be installed on a computer with a working wallet. PM me if I can help in that regard. ICO is over.Anyone know how much was collected? do you know where the Auroracoin foundation office is in Reykjavik? Except that Byteball has gone up impressively from the first airdrop. Despite huge inflation. I never would have thought this coin would hit $800 with so many zero cost coins in the market. Would be terrific to see these two Iceland-based coins working together. Hopefully there can be sharing of developer resources to the benefit of both projects. Helium is airdropping to Spreadcoin holders circa August 1st.1:1And next Byteball distribution is July 9th. I'm still interested in buying your Spreadcoin... Me too. I'll take all you've got. This didn't help me. Tried the other day. Two days later still not syncing.
The poor performance of this ICO is something to behold.Is it due to lack of promotion, or is there something really wrong with this project? Anyone looking to sell large 10 BTC+ blocks of HUSH and don't want to trash the market, send me a PM. Will Helium coins be distributed right after the August 1 snapshot?If so, how will we hold them? Will there be a Helium wallet by that time, or will they be an ERC20 token or something else that can be exchanged for the Helium coin in the future? So I've accidentally sent Spreadcoin to a Stratis address.Yes, embarrassing.I've tried importing the Stratis privkey for that address into the Spreadcoin wallet but I get the error message "Invalid private key (code -5)"Any suggestions as to how I might go about recovering my lost Spreadcoin? Has anyone received their INCT bonus yet on Ethereum? How to claim coins from the ICO? See Chris Trew's biography for information on the connection between him and Blitz:https://stratisplatform.com/team/ Please put a link to the Slack somewhere on the website or in the OP of this thread. Not just a link to the Slack invite, but the actual Slack for those of us who are already signed up but can never find the oddly-named slack group! LOL yes he's everywhere spreading love and joy. There is an ignore button. It is on the left under his profile. Byteball.orgByteball airdrop taking place on June 9, 2017 Helium is alive and well here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1809278.0It is planned by the Helium team to distribute the Helium token to Spreadcoin holders sometime in August. The FitBit project is old. It was working a year ago, but today the fitalize website is a GoDaddy landing page. Like what? If you're looking to buy 10+ BTC of Ark at market price and don't want to move the market, PM me. He thinks the price is going to skyrocket. Go WAAAAAAY up. Link to the video? LOL. No matter what these guys do someone will criticize.Not often you hear an investor complain the founders reward is too small. But can someone explain - assume I'm a 12-year-old - why being a Stratis sidechain is huge What is the big deal about being a Stratis sidechain?If the developers of this coin are MIA, what does it matter?Are they MIA? Looks like you're onto something.
Here are a couple tips to developers who are trying to make a success of their projects:1. do what you say you will do2. under-promise and over-deliverEspecially when there are prior allegations of scam. nope I'm trying to wrap my non-techie head around this project. Seems like there is so much going on in it.So if I issue a binary option, do I put up X amount of funds and the buyer puts up X amount of funds and the network delivers the funds to the winner based on the data from the feed? Voting? Email?More details please, I haven't heard a thing nor see anything on the website. I have no problem buying their product with their anonymity. It's buying the crowdsale that has me pausing. Because that part of the product won't be delivered when I pay them. That part is promised to be delivered in the future. I would love to buy this but the anonymity is a big problem for me and a lot of others.So I propose this:The team can remain anonymous, but they find an escrow whom they trust and is known to the wider community. That escrow releases funds to them as they hit milestones on the roadmap. There's no reason they'd have to reveal themselves even to the escrow, as long as he is trustworthy.Any reason this wouldn't work? Sold out. Pre-sale exceeded the ICO cap.Can someone tell me the difference between a pre-sale and an ICO? Does anyone have an update from the Russian front for us? Can you elaborate? I'm offering a 2 GB reward for the successful recovery of these Blackbytes.solved They finally let me into my account, with restrictions.Starting to seem more like poor customer service than outright scam at this point. I had a small amount of BTC on YoBit because there were a couple coins there that I couldn't get anywhere else.I requested them to lock my account about a week ago because one of my emails might have been hacked. Turned out everything was ok so I've been trying to get them to lift the lockdown.Customer service has been abysmal. Is it because of incompetence or criminality? Anyone else have good/bad experience with this exchange? I see now that the reviews at CryptoCompare are pretty negative. Guess I should have checked there first. We're up on Coinmarketcap.comhttp://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/creativecoin/ The snap shot isn't based on when SPR hits 8 million supply. That is just a ballpark number for how many Helium will need to be created for when the snapshot happens.We're still at least a couple months away. Lots of time to get this worked out yet.  How long does it take to get listed on coinmarketcap.com?Anyone have experience with this? Looks like it much cheaper to list on Yobit than cryptopia. Am I reading it correctly on their websites?And Yobit is a much bigger volume exchange according to CMC. Could the OP please be updated to include the additional block explorer and exchange information?How much does it cost to buy a listing on Bittrex? Anyone here willing to confess to the 45 BTC sell yesterday? The Helium developers are not the Spreadcoin developers.So one assumes the Spreadcoin developer (georgem) will continue on as before. At least we haven't heard any differently that I'm aware of. New block explorer for CREA:https://chainz.cryptoid.info/crea/#Let me know if you see anything wrong with it.
There used to be a website showing all the merchants accepting Auroracoin.Would be good to have something like that again. Or even a tab on the Android wallet listing merchants. Anyone looking to unload large amounts of SpreadCoin but don't want to move the market, message me to arrange an OTC trade. I'm buying. Why are wallet downloads not available from the main website, only this forum thread? Are there similar projects out there currently? Ethereum is from Canada.Which has the same weather as Russia. And we both play hockey. That's what I thought. But I've both received and sent coins successfully and none of them show up on the block explorer.This is the block explorer I found, maybe there is another one working better?https://search.creativechain.net/search Does that have anything to do with the block explorer not working or the wallet not showing the address a transaction was sent from? Because they're building a dashboard for managing investments? What does that even mean? When I search for transactions on the block explorer for this address CXv5YXtJxaSJUBR2NvX6Y6bh3AvpiK7svh it says Which is strange, as I received 1 CREA at that address. Any ideas? I'll try again.What is the relationship between Ark and Blockpool? You'd better get used to it if you're sticking around. Its been like this since before the ICO. I thought of dumping my investment just because of the treatment that community members get around here but ARK has performed well so I'm hanging on. I've never seen anything like this treatment by a team member on any other coin on BTCT and I've been here for 7 years.  However money talks louder than abuse and as long as ARK keeps churning out ROI, I tolerate the abuse. What is the relationship between ARK and Blockpool? I'm doing so DD into the team of Blockpool.Who is this Coinbar Digital Currency Group? Can't even find a website for them. Is there a working block explorer?  Got it... thank you.Where to send it back to? From says "unknown" Can someone send me a very small amount of CREA to test out my wallet?CXv5YXtJxaSJUBR2NvX6Y6bh3AvpiK7svhI will send it back to the sending address. How much has been raised so far including fiat?I can only find number of BTC raised.Thank you. Is the ICO accepting BTC, ETH, Waves? What tokens can we use to buy in? BitcloudCommunity tells me he has sold most of his coins.Can we assume he has flown the coop and this coin is without any sort of developer?
Has anyone ever seen a dead coin get resurrected to become a successful coin... or at least have its market capitalization exceed $100,000? It says completed in 33 hours because that is when they hit their max funding limit.  I'm glad you started a new thread to cut through all the bounty talk. However this thread should have been self-moderated.Nobody cares if someone says you are 'censoring' them. What we need is a clean thread that is actually worth reading.PLEASE start over before this thread gets any longer with a new, clean, highly moderated thread where supporters and investors can get actual information without having to sift through pages of garbage.Matchpool is not some small-time amateur-hour hobby project. This is a multi-million dollar business. Present a professional face. Impressive.Can you outline some of the benefits of this super-light approach for non-developers like myself? How can double-dipping happen with a snapshot? Let's do a reboot on BitCloud.We need to mobilize the troops to get this coin back in action.Join our brand new Slack if you're interested in helping out.If you have developer skills...If you have other skills (marketing, website, PR, etc.)...If you have monetary resources...Then get on the Slack here. If anyone would like to unload a large quantity of Bitcloud over-the-counter, PM me. This has probably already been asked, but...What can I do with byteballs that I can't do with blackbytes? I realize blackbytes have superior privacy. What do byteballs do 'superior' to blackbytes? "Big" buy wall on Yobit. You guys need to get on the phone to BitcoinSuisse now and give them the story. Could someone provide a synopsis of where the Bitcloud project currently stands?1. Is there an active developer2. What makes Bitcloud unique (great name by the way)3. Why is there no website4. Is there a roadmap of some sortThank you This post goes some way to answering that question.https://medium.com/matchpool/how-a-doctor-from-japan-can-use-matchpool-62a368084dd3 https://medium.com/matchpool/how-to-send-ether-to-the-matchpool-crowdfunding-campaign-in-10-easy-steps-a9230acaa42e Well this thread is completely off the rails.Is Luc ever coming back here, or is the VK page now his only home? You can buy the ICO through Bitcoinsuisse. The advantage of doing that is you can pay in BTC, USD, EUR and CHF. Also you'll get in at the very start. Of course for these benefits you will pay a fee. But after I missed out on Melonport I decided this was the way to go. Whatever the first early bird rate is. BitcoinSuisse almost half sold out their allotment of Matchpool ICO.http://www.bitcoinsuisse.ch/matchpool-ico/ It would be interesting to do such a transaction, importing a car from Iceland to Canada paid for by Auroracoin. And a 2000 model is now eligible to be imported (must be 15+ years to bring into Canada) but I'm afraid that a Megane does not really stir my emotions. Though it would probably be the only one on the continent! Would be terrific if we could sign up for an email notification of launch somewhere. Some of us need push notifications to be reminded because we can't keep track of all our Slack channels.  As I understand it:They take your money and invest it in blockchain projects. They share the profits with you, return some to the fund for reinvestment, and keep some for themselves.
What kind of car do you have? I might be interested. What is the level of completion of the NoblePay app?Some of the screens seem to work, but others (like Dashboard and Recent Activity) are blank. Yes, but why today?So you're saying there hasn't been any 'big news' in the last 6 weeks or so? This kind of sounds like a bad thing to me... rapid inflation=price decline What's happened in the last month or so that might explain this move?Any theories? It seems to me if price was determined completely by fundamentals, the threat of a fork would have driven price much lower.But wait! If it forks we'll have coins on two different chains. A free dividend! So I would think the price would be much higher.So confusing! Maybe the instructor should get the uncollected coins. Now there's an incentive program that could help SMLY! So currently most students aren't taking possession of their SMLY? They're just doing the exercises for the educational benefit and/or fun? Perhaps another way to control fake accounts would be a sort of PoS+PoW (where the 'W' in PoW is Work performed completing exercises). It could be something like this:-student logs in by demonstrating ownership of a particular SMLY coin address-the reward they earn for completing a task is proportional to the amount of SMLY in the addressThe problem with this is that it would also incentivize hoarding, meaning nobody would spend their SMLY at the University cafeteria - bad!So, instead of basing the reward on the amount of SMLY in an address, the reward is based on the amount of SMLY the address has previously earned from Tutorweb irregardless of whether that amount is still in that address. Have you thought of a way of controlling registrations through the physical distribution of anonymous accounts to students, or perhaps using kennitala as in the Auroracoin airdrop? How do you deter students from gaming the system by completing the same easy quiz over-and-over for rewards? You have a weird definition of the word "fair".You should create your own clone of byteball and try that distribution method and see how far you get. I'm looking to buy 100k-200k of shift.If anyone would like to unload a large amount of Shift at current market price please PM me. Has anyone here done a comparison between MaidSafe and Shift (shiftnrg.org)?They seem like similar projects, yet Shift is less than $1MM. I just found out about Shift this afternoon.From my early reading, it looks a lot like MaidSafe. Can anyone point to a comparison post about these two?If it is similar to MaidSafe, and if they keep developing at the rate they seem to be going, it is hard to understand why they have such a low Marketcap. Anyone got some insight on this? Thank you tonych for another generous Byteball airdrop! So what would I do with a bitswift token? Could that see the ISK resume a downward trajectory? Really? The price of Spread in bitcoin more than doubles and it's because bitcoin is going up? Indeed, "how stupid do you think people are?"I don't know any of the backstory here but I'll say this: coins101 exited this thread with complete class. He did no slagging of Spreadcoin. I hope you show the same class towards Helium, but I'm not optimistic based on your opening comments about that project. It ended 13 minutes after it began.
But what is it, exactly? You should have a presence on Steemit. I would have thought the same thing, then I participated in the byteball miracle. That's the one where they gave away byteball to bitcoin holders by doing a snapshot, and the price rose nearly to $100 anyways. Still sitting over $50.As long as HLM is a credible project, I don't see why it can't do the same. Snapshot method for byteball distribution seemed to work brilliantly. Any round participants are winners. Its free money.Instead of comparing yourself to the first round participants, whey don't you compare yourself to an 8 year-old in some third world hell hole who goes to work everyday sorting through garbage.Feel better now? Wow there's a lot of entitled whiners on this thread.You whine it must be a scam because you didn't get any.You whine at those who did get some that they're getting scammed.Grow up. The market obviously concluded this is an epic project and bought it up accordingly. I didn't get any either. My fail.If anyone finds themselves with a need to sell, PM me. Dude take 3 seconds and go to the website and see a very live project. Please do. I want to say a big THANK YOU to tonych for creating Byteball and for his VERY generous distribution method.. You'll often find the answer to questions like that in the original post.Explorer: https://explorer.byteball.org Thanks for this suggestion.However I can't get either wallet to successfully accept an invitation from the other, either to set up a shared wallet or to even chat.Doesn't matter whether I use QR code scanner or copy/paste the invite link. The "Pair" button does turn from grey to orange, but does nothing when I click it.Strange. I have the lite wallet on my phone.On my Mac I used the seed and created a full wallet.I can't get the two wallets to pair. The Mac wallet is inviting the phone wallet. The phone reads the QR code but when I click 'pair' nothing happens.I'm trying to do this so that I can move my blackbytes from the phone to the Mac.Any ideas what I might be doing wrong? Once you've chosen lite, I don't think you can switch it to full. I had this same situation a few days ago. I reinstalled from scratch. I haven't read the entire whitepaper but did scan it. It appears that Respectonomy is NOT a subjective proof of work project like Steem, but rather a conventional PoW coin that users tip content creators with... am I understanding it correctly? Sorry if this has already been asked...I'm trying to send 1 GB from my wallet to cryptox.pl, but it changes the quantity I'm sending from 1 to zero. Cryptox is seeing the transaction and confirming, but sees 0 as being sent.Anyone else having this? The "purpose" would be so you have credibility when you predict timelines. IIRC, it wasn't just that it would launch February 1st, but "probably earlier".On what basis should we believe launch will take place in "a few more weeks"? Was your original plan just to "fork basic QT wallet"? Was that the original roadmap to a Feb 1 release date?Look, you missed your own target date. Fine. It seems 90% of projects around here do. So OWN UP TO IT, APOLOGIZE and stop insulting your investors and supporters. Looks like we just hit all-time high in terms of market cap. and USD price. Will Golos be matching Steemit technologically moving forward? By that I mean, when the STEEM blockchain implements some change, will the Golos blockchain be matching it?Also I see there is lots of application development going on with STEEM. For instance a forum, a website publishing platform, and a Disqus clone. Will Golos be implementing such applications for the Russian market as well? Nice find molecular I still don't understand why miners would buy coins instead of simply not mining.Do carrot farmers buy carrots when the grocery store has a sale and sells them for less than the farmer can produce them for?
Thanks for the translation. When did he make this statement? What's with the YUUUUUGE volume in Golos trading today? Does EW explain this bloodbath? L we really need to hear from you! Really? Where are you reading that? Have you considered building this on the Steem blockchain instead? Might speed things up, plus comes with a built-in audience. Sugarfly you seem to be really optimistic about this project and not too concerned about timelines. Are you interested in an opportunity to grab a large stake in SC at the current market price? The sell side is pretty thin, this could be a good opportunity for you. I don't really recall that, and I was there at the time. But anyway, i think Satoshi had delivered on everything he said he was going to do before he disappeared and had someone in place to take over from him. I see you're pretty new to the forum sugarfly. Welcome to the wonderful world of crypto.Georgem could you weigh in here... or anyone else who answer humbepirate's post? You might have missed his prior post, which quoted the dev's own timeline. If you scroll up you'll see it, and if you're a real member here and not a sock puppet you'll understand what he means by timeliness. As a relative newcomer here, this is an interesting post to me. Anyone have some sort of response worth hearing? Don't just parrot what he says. No one is looking for ass-kissing. What we are looking for is professionalism.Done with this discussion. Let me ask a different way.What is the role of the person who does "communications" at ARK?Is there someone at ARK tasked with the role that would be widely and traditionally understood as being 'Public Relations'? @cannabanana, what do you see is your role with ARK? Friend you are not stress-free or happy. You are a bundle of anger and hostility waiting to explode. The way you respond to innocent questions or mild criticism tells the truth about you. Thanks for the clarification! Society is often telling us 'be true to ourselves', 'be real', 'you are special' and of course 'don't try to please anyone but yourself'.This of course is all hogwash.The reason we have traditions, manners, customs, rules, government, police, and prisons is so that we don't simply go around pleasing ourselves all the time. We are to try and be better people. It is ok for eight-year-olds to be children. It is not ok for 28 year olds to act like children.The ARK team has given you a job: public relations. Your job is not a playground for self-expression and self-fulfillment. Wouldn't you agree? I too can't understand why he is the public relations guy on this project. Right now I'm staying in, because I think at this point it is still a good investment. But there comes a time when bad PR can drag a project down - like when the PR guy starts insulting people in the real world, not just on bitcointalk. IF that happens there will need to be a re-evaluation of my investment.Cannabanana, please consider how you interact with the public. I know you often think you're 'right' and we're 'wrong', but that doesn't entitle you to be insulting and rude. Try to think of the good of the entire project and show some humility. Yikes. Will MaidSafe be moving to Zug? Ah, thanks. I hope this doesn't mean 2600 BTC in byteballs are subsequently going to be dumped on the market rapidly. Meaning? Komodo is claiming some bytes on Dec 25?
Is there a counter somewhere showing how many BTC have been linked? This may/may not work to get funds from current SpreadCoin enthusiasts, but it is unlikely to bring new people to the party.I think you need to bring new money in, and the best way to do that is to give them hope of future profit.Some sort of coin offering is in order. Even failed ICOs are bringing in more than $100,000 which is far, far more than you will likely get through patronage. Devs don't seem to answer here anymore.Is alpho2k a bot? He posts, but doesn't answer.Haven't had an answer on slack in 3 days either.  With all respect, for someone who considers himself a 'truth-teller' who doesn't care what people think, this is a bit of a stretch. First of all, the only country affected by this "major vacation season" is the USA. Secondly, people being at home on a holiday gives them more time to spend on things like researching and buying crypto. And thirdly, surely you knew your ICO would be overlapping with this "major vacation season" when you scheduled it.I'm not looking to get into a fight and I'm not looking to discuss this further. But let's keep the excuses real. This is major vacation season? The end of November? In what country is this a major vacation season?Is this being offered as a reason why the target hasn't been met? I'm still having this problem. Out of 57 'mined' occurrences so far today (11/26) I only have 28 confirmed. The other 29 say 'Generated but not accepted Mined'. I'm on highspeed wi-fi, but admittedly it isn't 100% consistent. NEW THREADhttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1044432.0 Why do I get so many 'unaccepted' blocks when I'm staking? Less than 50% of mine are accepted. Pretty sure MaidSafe is more than triple its ICO price. At their expense? Tell us more. Election on a Saturday? Iceland has to be different about everything!   Just came across a terrific website for discussing altcoins from an investor's perspective. Molecular you might want to also discuss Auroracoin price action there, as a way of exposing Auroracoin to other speculators.https://www.cryptocompare.com/coins/aur/overview/BTC PEOPLE PLEASE - this is Masterluc's T/A thread, let's not clutter it up. Or is it here: https://bnktothefuture.com/pitches/loyyal-pre-series-a What is the symbol/name on this coin? I can't find anything on Coinmarketcap. This project has been flying well under the radar.Anyone have any opinions or views on the concept, the coin, the founders?Anyone know why icocountdown.com doesn't seem to be involved anymore? Cool (but warm) winter clothing. Just read the CoinTelegraph article that noted $100,000 per month is being spent on building new forum software.What, pray tell, will this software do that a $399 license from vBulletin won't accomplish? Would this represent competition to Lykke?http://www.wsj.com/articles/new-currency-trading-platform-uses-bitcoin-inspired-ledger-technology-1474961400
I don't think you understand how Steemit works. Best to read the whitepaper at steem.io before you invest. Let's see, you blog and they give you money. That's quite the scam. These guys must be the dumbest swindlers in history. I think a good feature for coinmarketcap would be a customized 'watchlist' so I can login and see just the coins I'm interested in. Is Golem project still connected with TheDAO? Pardon me if this question sounds idiotic as I don't know the status of TheDAO since the hack debacle.https://blog.golemproject.net/golem-goes-to-the-dao-daoi-st-c0b569f58c10#.ujiidb1xh I had the same problem. Contacted karlkarlsson on the Slack, he arranged to get the address deleted. Then I downloaded the Chrome lite wallet and will transfer the coins there first before sending to bittrex... though that second part hasn't happened yet as I'm waiting for the address deletion to take place. @karlkarlsson on the slack fixed/is fixing this for me. He's good to deal with, PM him on slack to get your address changed.I have to say this process is not as well-designed as it could be if you prefer to send your coins to Bittrex. Let's hope it is just a blip. ok, so anyone know how to change the address on the ICO dashboard once it has already been set? Isn't it odd that a multi-million dollar project doesn't have a Help or Support link on their main website, or the OP? Anyone know how to send Waves from the ICO dashboard to Bittrex? I'm not seeing any place to enter the amount, or to hit 'withdraw'. up 404% and no one talking around here? I'm pretty ignorant about the mining scene. Can you explain this to me... do Chinese miners prefer one particular algo? The would not sell, or they would not mine? Nothing to report ATM. Until we hear a thorough and verifiable explanation for the copy/paste webpages, I'm staying far away from this one. Nice find. You kept me from making an investment mistake today. I read the white paper yesterday and the STEEM devs have really done an excellent job with their subjective proof of work design. However, where can I actually spend STEEM?Most altcoins have a unique spending proposition. For example Siacoin let's you buy distributed cloud storage. Maidsafe is promising the ability to buy distributed web hosting. Or, the altcoin has a design feature that the developers propose make it 'better' than bitcoin: Litecoin has quicker confirmations. DASH has better anonymity. Maybe I missed it in the whitepaper, but I don't see what advantage STEEM has on the demand side (as opposed to the supply side, which is brilliant). Now located at http://insight.auroracoin.is/See here: http://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/auroracoin/ Early Auroracoin price spike was not pump and dump. It was supply and demand. Baldur was the first to do the airdrop distribution method, which seemed like a genius solution to achieving critical mass.The supply of Auroracoin was severely restricted at the very beginning, and lots of people wanted a piece of the action. Once Airdrop #1 happened coin supply exploded and price dropped accordingly. What's the deal with a 1000% price increase lately? Don't see any big news announced here on the thread. If anyone wants to do a 3+ btc sale of ZiftrCOIN please PM me.
1. How does TVE make money for itself?2. Do you offer a white label version?3. Can other payout coins be integrated? Not a lot of coins on Bittrex at these prices. Anyone interested in selling me a block (5 btc or more) of Blitz at market+10%? Wallet updates are on their way, yes. No launch time to announce at the moment though. I just found out about Stratis. What is the relationship between Stratis and Blitz?Are the two Stratis developers who worked on Blitz in the past now no longer with Blitz? You also aren't getting my point: there is no risk-free financial system. What we are offering is designed to reduce some of the risks associated with the current system. We also are not forcing anyone to join us in this experiment - it is purely voluntary. That is a positive in terms of ethics.The scenario you are imagining, where 330k people are plummeted into a financial crisis, would require Auroracoin to have a market capitalization in the billions of US $. What kind of whale could manipulate that system? Why isn't this whale currently causing stock prices for hundreds of companies on the Nasdaq to vary by 75%? Sure, Auroracoin could fail epically.What are the alternative no-risk ways to replace a national currency? If the price of BTC had declined would you be willing to accept less JPY? See the list here: https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/4lad22/list_of_all_acceptedrejected_mtgox_claims_pdf/ What do you mean a million other options?What are three? Everything you ever wanted to know about mining Auroracoin:http://auroraspjall.is/viewforum.php?f=11&sid=650a5d5a8b05d22a5cd76346f9bd944f Anyone here who disagrees with the bankruptcy trustees decision and has decided to engage a Japanese law firm? Is anyone appealing the decision of the bankruptcy trustee in the Mt. Gox case?Have you found a law firm in Japan to handle this?I'd like to locate a firm that is already familiar with the process so I don't have to work through some lawyers' learning curve.Would like to hear your experiences with this.  Where do we download the light client that was to be ready June 2? I can't find it on the main website. First thread closed because the original developer (balduro) retreated into the background but didn't give anyone access to modify the original post with updated information.Second thread closed because the FUD got ridiculous.Third thread is self-moderated. Do we know why Canadians are prohibited from donating? The USA I can understand, but why Canada? I did see the warning on Ponzis, didn't see the one on ICOs though. Can you please link? Not really, no. I'm thinking more along the lines of Ethereum/Lisk/Waves/Maidsafe/Storj blockchain 2.0 type offerings, not just alt-coins that don't offer a significant new service or technology.  I should have made this a self-moderated thread.This thread isn't about discussing personal opinions on whether most ICOs are scams or not. This thread is to build a spreadsheet with price data to see how ICOs have performed immediately after there market debut.Please try and stick to discussions around the spreadsheet and providing data for said sheet.Thank you. Not sure if joking? Nice Trust rating.The point of looking at the performance of ICOs is to determine if they are good or bad investments. Seems this makes more sense than listening to some bitcoin-latecomer who just spews foul-mouthed rants in what may or may not be an attempt to talk down ICO prices. What I don't understand is why a coin would jump on the open when anyone can buy as much as they want now at 1/5 the cost.
In doing a study of altcoin crowdsale performance I came across ZiftrCOIN. $32k marketcap - wow!Is this coin still active, or does it now trade under a different name since the merger with GoCoin? Where can I see the price of IOTA token? Thanks vlom. Are you at least able to view the sheet? Feel free to add data to my spreadsheet here:https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1p7sJflgEXYp9VbgJVgsIXG08MLBw2iNPT-PO3GtEgEU/edit?usp=sharing Thanks for the list vlom, that's a good start for my study. Has anyone done a review of all the ICOs over the last couple years? It would be interesting to see what price the ICO sold at, what the coin closed at on its first day of trading, highs and lows since then, and what that coin is worth today.I think the first ICO was Maidsafe back in April 2014, but I might be wrong.If this hasn't been done, maybe we could crowdsource the data. If anyone is interested I'll setup a Google sheet for this.**EDIT**data tracking here:https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1p7sJflgEXYp9VbgJVgsIXG08MLBw2iNPT-PO3GtEgEU/edit?usp=sharing He used Soros because he is famous for SHORT-SELLING, which the OP is inviting you to do here if you believe Waves is going down. The first response of so many people on this forum is to use insult. You've made exactly 3 posts on here and already feel entitled to slam the OP.Naming George Soros isn't name-dropping. Soros is an extremely well-known name, almost as much as Buffett. No one would choose him to 'name drop'.Is he a moron? Well his politics usually are, but he certainly knows how to make money. How is it a 'better option' to not buy the ico and watch for dump? If Waves is going down, it is a 'much better option' to short sell it, book a profit, and buy back at a lower price - as the OP is offering you the opportunity to do.In what universe is $0 profit better than more than $0 profit? Does anyone know if there is an appeal procedure? Looks like my claim has been rejected, even though I was one of the first 300 people using Mtgox. try icocountdown.com I don't think there's much of an Icelandic remittance market.There is no krona<=>bitcoin exchangeThe 1 million AUR is the Auroracoin foundation. The next two biggest holders are thought to be Cryptsy and that exchange that went bust in Switzerland that I can't think of. The largest address of all is the 5 million+ coins that balduro burned after the airdrop ended. Thanks for clarifying this, much appreciated. So you believe his charts are faked? Site looks very good.Gotta get rid of that Facebook-like login button though. Confusing. Tried to move some coins to Yobit but they seem to have vanished. Is there a working blockchain explorer somewhere? I thought that seemed strange.Just another example showing how broken the media is. Almost everytime there is a story in our local newspaper where I know the people involved, the story is wrong. That is an oversight. Will be fixed ASAP.Thank you for pointing that out. Could someone give me a quick tutorial on how to start staking? I understand my coins have to mature first (how long does that take), after that is it automatic or do I have to 'turn it on'? Thank you for the offer however I no longer need the file translated.Stick around though, sooner or later your skills will be put to good use!
If you can help with English to Icelandic translation, please PM me. Well, Ontario needs an electronic medical records system that doesn't cost a fortune.http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/toronto/ehealth-scandal-a-1b-waste-auditor-1.808640Maybe the bitswift blockchain to the rescue.  I don't get it. How does BitSwift help with my office equipment??? You're joking, right? The poster campaign is over for one week and you demand to see the video already. What is your rush?OP, can we PLEASE go to a moderated thread. This one is a waste of time for supporters of Auroracoin. A time lapse video of one poster has already been posted. Did you miss it? Stills of other posters have also been posted.Were you promised a time lapse video of all 100 posters by May 9th? I'm unclear as to exactly what your problem is. Please clarify for us.  So you want media proof of the media campaign. But the media campaign was designed to reach Icelanders with the Auroracoin brand. What is the point of the media proof for you?  Wow, top story! Would be great if one of you technical analyst gurus would start an Auroracoin thread at forexfactory.comMight bring in some new people who haven't encountered Auroracoin before. I think there is a word missing from your post... "Now 10 later"... do you mean 10 blocks later? 10 hours later? Tell us more. NEW THREADhttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1044432.0 Just curious, and not looking to get into a long-running discussion over this, but if Waves is domiciled in Europe somewhere isn't it really the responsibility of US investors to obey US laws, not some foreign organization?Secondly, they are selling tokens, not shares in a corporation. How is what they're doing different then selling any other token (postage stamps, old coins) or commodity that goes up and down in value? I thought this might be a typo but then I realized, for many people it isn't! Yes. Telling me the password they sent me is invalid.I was able to long in initially, but now can't change my password. Sure glad I didn't send my account any BTC yet.You guys have 8 hours to fix this if you want my money. Please, share with us the answer. That's why we're all here! Isn't the real question whether or not what he says is true? I feel like a number of you are angry at the messenger because you are skeptical about his motivation. Try to be objective rather than letting your investment desires cloud your judgement. I'd like to hear from all sides about the veracity of the OP's claims. Yup, looks like no-go on retroactive self-moderated:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=152876.0 Is it possible for an OP to have his thread changed to moderated, or does it need to be closed and a new one opened? Well, I'm trying to. But it isn't easy. Can you tell me about the swiftBackup specifically? Where is my stuff backed up, exactly?
I've just read the 12 pages of this thread and I'm still kind of unclear on what bitswift offers that is different from other alts.I understand that I can earn bitswift by playing games, and that it is registered in Canada (which I like). And I see there is a feature called swiftBackup which I think is a cloud storage service, but I don't know if it is centralized like Dropbox or decentralized like Storj or Siacoin.Can someone give me a plain-English overview of bitswift's unique features, perhaps with usage examples? All my body parts are sized appropriately with one another. I would like to acquire another 30,000-50,000 AUR at market rate. If you are looking to reduce your exposure to AUR and would like to do an OTC trade, please PM me here. +1Sounds like someone looking for a bail out. I'm new to Blitz Coin and looking to make a 10-20 BTC investment.The ask side is pretty thin on Bittrex. Anyone here looking to unload a substantial about of Blitz send me a PM. Spreadcoin sell side is pretty thin on bittrex. Anyone here looking to get out of more than20 BTC amount of SC? Do you mind if I repost your chart here?http://investorshub.advfn.com/Auroracoin-USD-AURUSD-30830/ Just an FYI, I'm reading on a lot of boards here about problems getting coins out of Bter. Not sure if it is a Cryptsy-type problem or just temporary. Anti-Canadian bigotry.CANADIAN LIVES MATTER! Can someone tell me where Lisk tokens are used/spent in the system?That is, what will drive the usage demand for Lisk? I'm unclear on how proof-of-burn thwarts Sybil attacks. Can someone point me to a good outline of how it would work? Danslip, perhaps you have some skills you could add to this project to help enhance the value of your investment.Programmer? Graphic artist? Website building? Or maybe you could offer a bounty so that others who aren't as fortune as you can build something for Auroracoin?The more participation - real participation, not peanut gallery stuff - we get, the faster your investment is likely to appreciate. Well if you were in the United States, it would be the Investment Advisors Act of 1940.http://www.forbes.com/sites/feeonlyplanner/2011/05/19/are-you-a-victim-of-illegal-investment-advice/#650b7907637fYou'll have to figure out if South Africa has something similar. Looks like we're catching a little inflow today.There's Investor's Hub for penny stock discussion, and Silicon Investor, and Raging Bull.Does anyone know if there is there a discussion forum for cryptocurrency investing? Oh that we would receive 1/1000th of the volume of Ethereum! Bittrex is looking rather lopsided. Difficult to make a large buy without moving the price substantially. Need more sellers here!  There was a directory of businesses at aurcoin.is but the site owner has let it lapse and hasn't responded to messages, so the plan is to build another based on existing code.Ground work can be followed at auroraspjall.com or on here at https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1044432.0This thread was created to keep price talk off the main thread. Seems to me most altcoins do only minor tweaks to the bitcoin core desktop client.Which coin has really done something innovative in terms of design? I don't mean features so much as look and feel - the user experience. If you're a LinkedIn user, please consider joining the new Auroracoin Developer group here:https://www.linkedin.com/groups/8486039 I'd like to build something like this for Auroracoin:https://coinmap.org/#/world/49.97065584/14.49920654/8Maybe something simpler, using Google Maps.Would anyone like to collaborate, or know of an opensourced version that can be cloned?
Looking at the price action on some other coins this week we should hope that some Chinese investors fall in love with Auroracoin.Scotcoin up 10x in 15 days? With all respect, this is a straw man argument.No one here is afraid to entertain the idea of change. However some of us are against change for the sake of change. Especially when there is so much work (read "change") that truly needs to be done before this project can move forward.Over and out. Satoshi foresaw the block size debate and spoke to it before 2011.   What do you mean by "fairer"?Because airdrop was designed to get coins into many hands in small geographic area, creating a critical mass of users. With many thousands claiming their coins, this worked.No, but every time we tinker with the system average users will feel the rules of the game are changing. This reduces confidence in the currency.Halving does not cut the supply of AUR in half. It cuts the inflation rate of AUR in half. There will continue to be more coins than previously, which is downward-pressing on price.But if change in payout causes price fluctuations, then what you're proposing merely changes it from a once-every-four-years known phenomenon that people can calculate for, to an ever-happening phenomenon that is hidden and difficult to account for. In fact, I don't really understand how it would work myself.I do think that Satoshi has thought about this a lot more than most of us. But I'm also not convinced the current methodology accounts for anything more than minimal convulsions in the price since users know when it is happening and can act accordingly. If everyone knew the supply of copper was going to halve in 2 years, don't you think many people would stockpile now, thus driving up the price in the present?I don't think anyone is making a 'complicated code' argument.I'm not convinced the hard halving schedule is broken. I'm not convinced it causes wild price fluctuation. I think we have enough work to do without introducing more unknowns and more complexity into the system. I am enjoying the discussion though.  I used the Android wallet earlier this week. It is the old one from 2014. While price stability might be a nice thing in theory, if it comes at a cost of confidence in the coin then it is not worth it.If Auroracoin becomes widely accepted, its price will jump many-fold from here, irregardless of whether the block reward halves or not. In fact the halving will have a minor impact compared to acceptance. We could easily see a 100x jump from here based on acceptance.However if users don't have confidence that there will not be fundamental changes to the rules of the coin, Auroracoin will go no where but down.I don't know if halving is the ultimate mechanism in this case, but it was good enough for Satoshi. I'm pretty sure he would have had the capability of programming a gradually-scaling reward system if he had thought that was best. The beauty of the present method is it is easily understandable. As is PoW. That means players can make decisions and act accordingly. As more complexity is introduced, it gets harder for average participants to act rationally, so they drop out of the system.The genius of bitcoin is that it removes currency from the control of a group of elites who manipulate it for their own advantage, OR who manipulate it for what they think is 'the greater good' or 'a better way'. We should inoculate ourselves against the idea that we can somehow out-smart the market, and we should be very careful to make changes to what Satoshi has designed in terms of the economics of the coin. Adding features is one thing, playing Paul Krugman is completely another. A reminder that Auroracoin does have its own forum at http://www.auroraspjall.is/ This is awesome grass roots work. Keep it up! Great idea for the solar power guy too. It occurs to me that in a country of 330,000 it wouldn't be very difficult for the average citizen to get involved in a political party and make an impact. Is anyone here who a member of any Icelandic political party? Adamastor, that's fantastic. Please post some pics so we can all share in it!!!! Is this a garage sale site, or just an AUR buy/sell site?https://www.facebook.com/groups/544259455688424/ Fantastic! This is a big day in the history of Auroracoin. Adam, what do you know about the remittance industry between South Africa and Mozambique? I see from this article that remittance channel has the 2nd highest fees in the world at 22%: http://www.theguardian.com/global-development/2014/aug/18/global-remittance-industry-choking-billions-developing-world A reminder that the in-person Auroracoin-trading website Skiptum.is is open for listings.  What do you mean by accommodation? Do you mean subsidy, or salary or some such? We are all volunteers here. If you want to build something for Auroracoin, just build it. If you have programming skills there are any number of things you can do. Ask coinmarketcap to add Cryptopia to their market cap calculation for Auroracoin using this form:https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1IZf5cBivam_93zENT_arFFuvWDidHGjWxoTMVmFSoWg/viewformOr go to coinmarketcap.com and scroll to the very bottom for the Request Form link. No, this 'takeover' has the blessing of baldur who has pointed his auroracoin.org site to the new team's forum Sorry if I missed it earlier. It was too painful to read the entire thread.But how do you intend to impose your social "justice" (really social equality - there's nothing just about it) if you plan to taking power away from government?As far as I can see, the weapons of social justice warriors are the court system, the education system, and an assortment of tribunals, commissions and agencies.  i'm sorry, are you asking for LESS communication? That would be a first for a crypto community. A brief status update:Code for the new wallets is more or less finished. Except for a character encoding problem with the version name. Some styling work also needs to be done.The porting of Breadwallet for Auroracoin is also coming along nicely. Testing is underway and some graphics work being done there too.Help wanted:-QT code styling-OSX compilingIf you can assist in either of these areas PM me.
Not a chance. What government would want the accountability and responsibility that goes with operating in a non-inflating currency environment? I'm holding a ton myself but frankly these allegations don't bother me too much. Most people in Iceland haven't heard of bitcointalk, let alone this thread. Auroracoin will succeed or fail on the ground in Iceland regardless of what FUDers say here. Now changed to 4 decimal places, thanks for the suggestion.Price is coming from  https://www.cryptonator.com.  Cryptonator uses an average of the AUR/BTC market price from Cryptsy and Bter, which is then converted to AUR/USD using the BTC-e price, and then to other fiat currencies using the rates from http://www.sedlabanki.is and http://www.ecb.int. Thanks apcoins. If you could detail the strange problems on the support forum here (http://auroraspjall.is/viewtopic.php?f=9&t=60&p=319#p319) that would be helpful.And I can definitely use help with translation. I paid someone I found at bland.is, but I didn't get everything done. Maybe you could shoot me a PM? New localbitcoins-style exchange for Auroracoin is ive. Skiptum (meaning 'let's trade') is awaiting your Bids and Asks!Join us now at www.skiptum.is WOW! Great news. Thank you baldur o.  Huh?Auroracoin has an Android wallet, Windows, Mac and Linux wallets, a Chrome wallet extension, and a Twitter tipbot.Shortly there will also be a localbitcoins-style exchange (skiptum.is - still testing), and an ISK/AUR exchange. There will be a poll. Miners will vote with their hashrate. Exactly. Even if Auroracoin was started as a scam - and if it was it was one of the most poorly executed scams in crypto yet - why does that matter going forward?Auroracoin has the name recognition, the development team, and above all an ideal target market for an exciting crypto experiment.In any event, the FUD here on BCT doesn't really matter because the average Icelandic consumer doesn't even know bitcointalk exists. December 7, 2014, you're back!! Fantastic, thanks so much for this. Is there a service that allows me to enter two bitcoin addresses to find out if they are connected?Like 6 degrees of separation, but for coins rather than Hollywood celebrities. I like the look of Tox (https://tox.im/) and since it is open source maybe you can just build off of it and save a lot of development time.On the other hand, maybe if the GUI looked like an old push-button telephone it would be more intuitive for non-tech users. I think you want to make it as obvious to use as possible for people. Personally, I find Skype very difficult to work with. LOL Well at least you admit it!   Wallets can be downloaded here: http://auroracoin.io/ Nice to know he's alive and must be reading the forum.How will we know if/when the coins are burned? Was able to withdraw all my cash and coins, with the last coming out today.Sorry to see Cavirtex go. I was with them since 2011 and really appreciated the ease of transferring in and out. Thank you!Looks like difficulty is climbing again. Your troops may have to be redeployed. Guess we need some benevolent miner to throw some hashing at it.This coin needs to be fixed, stat. Here's some of what has happened in the last few months:Already done:Chrome wallet: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/bitbrowser-auroracoin-wal/odcmcehfddfnnnbaifjhkikddagchieg?hl=en-GBNew forum: http://auroraspjall.is/Q&A site with Auroracoin bounties: https://www.spurt.is/Insight API ported to Auroracoin: http://insight.auroracoin.io/Twitter tipbot: http://auroratip.auroracoin.io/#/Under development:Auroracoin foundation in IcelandSkiptum.is localbitcoins-style exchangetipbot for bland.is and phpBB forum softwareIcelandic krona to Auroracoin exchangeSo to answer your question, not dead yet.
The Twitter tipbot is now live: http://auroratip.auroracoin.io/#/.Test it out with some small amounts of Auroracoin and let me know what you think on the support forum.  There's this promotion at spurt.is: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=446062.msg10482171#msg10482171 Good grief. KGW was to fix one problem and just opens up another.I say we merge-mine with BTC and be done with this issue. Here is the offending block: http://insight.auroracoin.io/block/24e5e48704d70dde5ebae52a31a5430f1fcad726d4680bb723fddb3c70215160Can anyone explain what is going on when we have a situation like this?  Nice to see a small uptick in claims:http://blockexplorer.auroracoin.eu/claims.3.html If they're only taking in $30k a month in fees than I would think they are not even making minimal profit.They probably have a dozen employees.  If they pay them an average of $2,500/month ($30,000/year) then they're at breakeven on wages alone, never mind rent, utilities etc.And they're in Calgary, so they're probably paying more than $2,500/month.They would need to raise their fees or increase their trade volume just to survive. Makes more sense to buy bitcoin and sit around waiting for the price to go up. Even if it was a pnd, and I'm not saying it was, that doesn't mean it must die.Because of auroracoin Iceland probably has a higher level of public awareness of cryptocurrency than any other nation.  Sure it isn't all positive, but a lot of work was done just by the huge amount of free publicity that happened.There is something to build on there. Maybe. I don't understand... why are there so many 12.5 AUR transactions in a single block?https://chainz.cryptoid.info/aur/block.dws?99216.htmShouldn't there only be 1 per block? Wouldn't it be cheaper to just buy the coins at these prices rather than throw all that hashing at it? Even more so than the pre-mine, I feel this is the greatest threat to Auroracoin going forward.I propose we merge-mine with bitcoin and be done with this problem.What other possible solutions are there? Hash rate went up 10x!  What's going on?http://insight.auroracoin.io/status http://www.auroracoin.org/resources/auroracoin-qt.zip Auroracoin-Qt for Windowshttp://www.auroracoin.org/resources/auroracoin-qt.dmg Auroracoin-Qt for Machttp://aur.cryptocoins.at/wallets.php Auroracoin-Qt for Linuxhttps://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=de.schildbach.wallet_aur Wallet for Androidhttps://github.com/baldurodinsson/auroracoin-project/ Auroracoin-Qt Source code (GitHub)and the Chrome wallet extension: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/bitbrowser-auroracoin-wal/odcmcehfddfnnnbaifjhkikddagchieg The OP is no longer around. Sorry to resurrect this, but I haven't found any other threads on BTCT that discuss this topic.Did this forum tipbot ever get expanded to use other forums?Does anyone know how this one works behind-the-scenes?  Did it require the installation of a plugin by the forum Admin, or does it operate completely independently of BTCT? API in place for Auroracoinhttp://insight.auroracoin.io I'm looking for someone to translate the Spanish parts of this file into Icelandic: https://github.com/bitpay/insight/blob/master/po/es.poName your price in AUR.Any takers? Is there a web front end for registering a name?  I see oneid.io allows you to view, but not register. Now how did I know before I looked at your profile that you had registered on December 7, 2014?You should have waited at least a few days between setting up all your sock puppets to give yourself a modicum of credibility. Viorcoin, you need to either install real forum software at viorcoin.com (like vBulletin or SMF), or you need to shut it down.More than 75,000 spam posts. Doesn't look good for the project.Personally I vote for installing SMF if you want to get real discussion going around this coin. Otherwise just stick to BTCT. Because they want people to actually use their coin.
It seems that a lot of altcoins get launched with a flurry of work and enthusiasm, and then interest from the lead developer wanes and the coin dies a slow (or not so slow) death.Is there an opportunity for altcoin developers, especially for those coins where there are only one or 2 developers, to work together for mutual benefit?Could altcoins share developer resources so that work done related to one coin could be fairly easily ported to another coin?If altcoins that are technically similar shared developer resources, would that then allow devs to spend more time on marketing their coins to their particular audience?Not being a dev myself I don't know the answers to these questions. Maybe the fact that so much work is already shared as opensource via github means there isn't much room for efficiency gains through an 'altcoin co-operative'. Thanks for the answer. I'm still not completely sure though, because this video seems to be talking about a physical store location:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o_jWDIFwFR4 New to this thread but very interested in CXC.I'm unclear though as to whether this is a web-only checkout product, or if this is something that can be used in a physical restaurant/retail location. I've noticed many of the usernames posting these types of messages were created on December 7, 2014. I'm not sure why that is. Maybe has something to do with Pearl Harbour. It would certainly be a great help if baldur would communicate with us. Things could move forward at a faster clip if he would. However we are persevering.unamis76 I'd encourage you to join us at the new forum, we can use any help you can give: http://auroraspjall.is/ Baldur has been incommunicado, but he is still around.He took the forum down when he was informed it had been hacked, and the airdrop numbers at auroracoin.org keep going up.If he doesn't burn the premine as promised, my guess is the newly forming Auroracoin foundation will do a hard fork and burn it for him. Is it possible to solo gpu mine this on Ubuntu? Is there a guide someone can point me to? I've downloaded the blockchain and made a connection, so that's positive.In other wallets there is a check box to turn on mining. Where is that in the Greececoin wallet?Where can I see the difficulty? Can Greececoin be mined from the wallet? The private key is stored in the browser only. Transactions are signed in the browser and are pushed to the node on the server. The private key will only leave the browser to be synced with other Chrome browsers that you are signed into. Encrypting the private key ensures that nobody will know the private key without the password, not even this extension.Having said that, this is really a 'spare change' wallet. Don't put vast amounts of Auroracoin in it. I appreciate that the team behind SendChat is trying to bring bitcoin to the masses by integrating it with an app that 50 million people already use.That will make it easy to adopt for people who are on Telegram and who know about/use bitcoin.I think, though, that there is not compelling reason here for someone who hasn't used bitcoin to adopt SendChat.SendChat needs functionality compelling enough for non-bitcoin, non-Telegram users to adopt it.In the messenger space Venmo is very popular in the USA with the under-30 crowd because of it's social newsfeed features.http://qz.com/277509/read-what-happens-when-a-bunch-of-over-30s-find-out-how-millennials-handle-their-money/Venmo has already proven that the model works. They also are NOT available outside the USA.  This is a golden opportunity for someone.SendChat should consider adding Venmo-like bill-splitting and newsfeed functionality.  People who adopt it for these reasons will have to use bitcoin as a result, thus truly bringing bitcoin to the masses. New Google Chrome wallet for Auroracoin, based on the Bitcoin wallet by Andrew Toth.If you would like to help test it, visit the Chrome web store here:https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/bitbrowser-auroracoin-wal/odcmcehfddfnnnbaifjhkikddagchiegPlease don't risk a lot of Auroracoin trying it out. Let me know what you think. Dev, how can we on the forum help further Viorcoin?Graphics work? Do you need developer assistance?Feature suggestions?Perhaps the discussion on the forum would be more fruitful if you can give us some direction as to how we can provide you with meaningful help. rakesh, please look at your last 2 comments and consider whether they helped to move the conversation forward.Can we drop the pointless pissing contest and focus on things that will help the cause of Viorcoin. This is not an invalid question.As a large holder of VIOR, I'd like to know the answer to it as well.  Or at least have some of the regulars on here admit that they don't know. There is a new forum here http://auroraspjall.is/index.php Why don't you guys partner with another regional cryptocurrency and pool your development efforts?If you work with a coin with a similar codebase you might be able to build infrastructure for Quebecoin much more easily. Another feature to consider: random chat.Think chatroulette with built-in tipping.Or, people could even charge to accept your call. For instance, if I were a Linux expert and you wanted help with a Linux problem you could call me on Viorcoin but it won't ring at my end unless you deposit 50 vior first. I've used Viorcoin to make a call and I must say I am impressed with the sound quality.But I think the UI needs to be enhanced and simplified. Probably the dev is already thinking about this.I think the calling functionality should be front and centre, not the wallet/money functionality. The average user is going to use this to make a phone call, not to stake coins. Put a dialling pad, address book, and video-call screen as the main landing page. Basically make it look more like Tox and less like bitcoin: Tell us what the calling rates are somewhere in the wallet, priced both in Vior and USD or another currency of our choice.Give us the steps to make a call right in the program, not just buried in a forum. Viorcoin, can you help with this OS X problem?http://viorcoin.com/forum/index.php/42-osx-crashes-on-call-initialization
No need to engage with the FUDers. Note when their usernames were created. blocks are grinding to a crawl againhttps://chainz.cryptoid.info/aur/#Any theories? Uhhh, but the general public are into crypto? Post your Vior address here and I'll call you: http://viorcoin.com/forum/index.php/37-post-your-viorcoin-address-here-so-we-can-talk You need to email Cryptsy and request it like I did.  See this story: http://www.doublewide.net/Anyone can renew. It wasn't transferred, just renewed. It just happened this morning.The good news is its back.The bad news is it was someone here on the forum who renewed it, not baldur. Because I'm becoming such a fan of Viorcoin, I'm offering a 20 VIOR giveaway to incentivize people to sign up at the forum.See the giveaway here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=907602.0 Page not found. Maybe you could help out with this? http://viorcoin.com/forum/index.php/38-how-staking-worksI'm still unclear on exactly how staking works, and I'm sure others are as well. By having a place you can point people to they may be more likely to stake. Thanks for the quick answers.How do I move coins between Stakeable and Spendable? Could someone technical help me with these questions about staking?http://viorcoin.com/forum/index.php/38-how-staking-worksI think it would be helpful if more discussions took place at viorcoin.com.  It would be easier to sort conversations into searchable categories. It is back online, maybe clear your cache. Auroracoin.org is live. I imagine this means the airdrop is back on as well. I've started a thread at Viorcoin forum where users can exchange Viorcoin addresses in order to test the VoIP/video calling features.http://viorcoin.com/forum/index.php/37-post-your-viorcoin-address-here-so-we-can-talk Just finished reading through all 66 pages and I didn't see anything that mentioned why bitfloor.net is down. Did I miss it? I just had a chat with namecheap and the rep I got said 'no can do'. Have to wait 80 days for the domain to be available.I suspect the agent you spoke with may have had more initiative than usual. Maybe I'll try again later. The domain was renewed for a year on December 19: http://who.is/whois/auroracoin.org Website is up at auroracoin.ioHowever this doesn't given access to the airdrop.
Which altcoin has the best website in your opinion, and why? You're right, it was all my computer. Working fine on iPad and Mac. If I right click on the button to open in a new tab, Chrome acts correctly: tries to open my bitcoin wallet. Just clicking on the button though gives no response.I'm going to download Electrum and try their instructions. I'm using this tipping tool https://github.com/jeremymouton/cointipper-server to try and create a bitcoin donation function in my forum (see attempt here: http://alpina.ca/showthread.php?p=1961#post1961) using a custom BB code with the following embed code:Code:<embed src="https://cointipper.herokuapp.com/tip/bitcoin/BTC/1GMwCf6XsMufpot3wHzbYnU3d2RevD5/CoinTipper-Donation-Jar" height="38" width="150">It displays fine and when I click on it it takes me to the next step, but it won't complete (ie, it won't start my bitcoin wallet and populate the fields).Is this a restriction of BBCode, vBulletin, or something else? Right. Because a coin with a dishonest developer holding 30% of coins is going back a billion dollar market cap.Or do you not do DD when you make an investment?Anyway, where is your proof he is hoarding coins? It looks to me that he has done nothing but give away coins for 10 months.  So... even if your allegations were true, where is the scam? If balduro is giving himself the magical internet money that he already controls, how does he benefit?The only way he makes any money out of this is if he dumps the coins on an exchange and somebody buys them. Which means the market has decided these coins have worth. And if the coins have worth, any Icelander who claims his share gets free money.So why would some of you here tell Icelanders to stay away from free money? Are you trying to depress demand so that you can acquire more for yourself at lower prices? Who is the real scammer here? Forum hacked? What do you mean? The AUR price action on Cryptsy feels like coins are being dumped in quantity. Not that I'm opposed to picking up some cheap coins, but I wonder if more are being claimed than we think. It would be nice if Balduro could give us some clarification. I understand his desire for anonymity, but that doesn't mean he has to go into hiding. Surely he can share his plans and thereby reduce the anxiety in the community. You can probably claim coins again. Try it and let us know how many you receive. Big jump in the amount of airdrop coins in circulation over the last 5 hours. What's happenin'? Saw this today and tried it out. Great interface, easy to use, love the Facebook integration.Sadly out of three transactions only one worked as it should.  The other two are just a spinning graphic with "Sending Transaction".The Help page at QuickCoin.co gives a Page Not Found.Too bad. Would merged-mining have any impact on AUR transaction fees?  Skarfur thank you for the update, this is really good to hear.I'd like to see merged mining with bitcoin or litecoin.  While I understand the attraction of mining, I think security of the network is paramount.  I would think Icelanders especially want to know that their currency is not going to be attacked.  Auroracoin is especially vulnerable on this issue because of the threat of attack back in the spring. Actually I'd really appreciate some words, since I don't know much about technical analysis.  Is this bullish or bearish? Doesn't seem to be anyone on odesk with the requisite skills.Still looking, tell me your price. I'm looking for someone who can do translation into Icelandic.  Willing to pay in AUR, BTC or $.  PM me if you are a native speaker and interested. You have a PM. I spent more than a bitcoin getting questions answered on Rugatu.I wanted good answers quickly, so I paid.  It was well worth it. Has anyone had trouble with the withdrawl functionality reverting to the previous 'saved' btc address, rather than using the new address you've just typed in?
Have you seen the quality of answers on Yahoo Answers?  It's so embarrassing they should have closed the site by now.It has been implemented, at Rugatu and JustAnswers. Yes.  Basically the questioner sets a bounty, people answer, and the best answer that the questioner accepts receives the bounty.  The questioner can decide how much or little the bounty is. There used to be a site called Rugatu which was a bitcoin-enabled implementation of OSAQ.  That site is no longer alive.Does anyone know of any open-source Q&A software that is bitcoin-enabled?If not, is anyone up for building it (for a price)?  I'm resurrecting this ancient thread because the idea proposed in post #4 still hasn't been done AFAIK, and I still think it's a good idea.Any takers?  Counteroffers?  Suggestions? Is it the social aspect that's so attractive, or is it a particularly easy way to transfer money that keeps them using it? Wasn't the original expectation for this sometime in 2010 or 2011? I have just (belatedly) been introduced to Venmo.  I'd like to hear from users as to why they like it.  And if you could tell us your approximate age (under 30/over 30) too...   Wouldn't merged mining with LTC solve a lot of problems for AUR? I see blocks are typically found every couple minutes, but today two blocks were over 2 hours.  These blocks had a larger number of transactions in them.What is the connection between block size and time to discover? I just found this thread.  This coin is still alive?  What became of the original dev? Well, we've seen it drop from $30 to $2, and we've seen it drop from $266 to $38.  Now we're seeing it drop from $1200 to somewhere under $300.  I'm not sure there's any 'reason' for it beyond human psychology. Work is still happening.  The forum isn't very active, but some of the members at forum.auroracoin.org have been moving things forward.  I hear an Icelandic exchange is to come online in September. What does very very bearish look like to you?  Under $400?  Under $300??  Except it happens only at this site, and other people experience it only at this site as well?(P.S. I'm running Ubuntu) yeah, pretty sure because I duplicated it in another browser The first time I landed on viacoin.org and Get Started I got a pop-up all in Russian that didn't look like it was associated with viacoin.  Anyone else get this?   You seem pretty sure of your opinion, maybe you could tell us where Icelanders can buy USD or BTC. Nice!  Careful their leftist heads may explode.Then there's this gem: http://www.martindurkin.com/blogs/nazi-greens-inconvenient-history Political ideas generally flow from an underlying worldview.  It is unlikely that good ideas would be evenly distributed across the political spectrum.  They are likely to reside with the party whose worldview most closely reflects reality. Why is it the actual haters are always the first to accuse the other side of hatred?You post an article with the sole purpose of slandering a group of people who are trying to bring a semblance of fiscal sanity to the most indebted country in the history or the world and they are haters?Have you also yet figured out that the article is not saying the TEA Party is an actual religion (Christian fundamentalist) but rather has the characteristics of a religion, as do socialism, atheism, and especially the environmental movement?
Try to obtain bitcoin or litecoin while living in Iceland. Have any of the IPO buyers received their "free" Quebec maple syrup yet? I realize you're relatively new to bitcoin (at least if your sign-up date on the forum is a gauge) so you may come to cryptocurrency for different reasons, but I don't think many early bitcoin adopters are here because we want more 'community-organized safety' in our lives.We're not here because we want other people looking out for us.  We're here because there is a palpable lack of freedom in our world. If you are standing in the middle of a freeway of drunks, you know they're drunks, and you know they are all driving 100 mph and you get hit?  Right, that IS your problem.People have not been ripped off.  In fact, this IPO has been more generous than advertised.  Everyone was made fully aware of the option to purchase with Mastercoin, this was not hidden.  I myself purchased only with BTC and am grateful for the opportunity to have done so.  Because I had absolutely nothing to do with the development of maidsafe, yet I (along with everyone here) was given the opportunity to buy in at the ground level of what could be a game-changing company.If you know of someone who did not receive the maidsafecoin they were promised in return for their BTC or Mastercoin, then post the details.  Otherwise stop feeding people's greed and sense of entitlement. I can't imagine why this didn't get sent out a month ago.  There's no reason it couldn't happen this afternoon.  You should make it happen now for credibility sake. +1thank you for bringing some sanity to this discussion Instant loss?  I invested via BTC and I still have all my maidsafecoin.  I've experienced zero loss. I invested with BTC and I don't feel I got screwed.  A screwing would be if they didn't keep their end of the deal.  They kept their end of the deal and more.You have to get over yourself.  In life, some people, some times, will have an advantage over you.  That is the real world.  If you're feeling screwed now, you're really going to feel screwed when safecoins are 50x the price they are at present.You should be evaluating and buying safecoins on their own merit, not on the basis of what someone else paid for them.Sounds to me like you're trying to do a short-term flip and now can't.  If you were looking at this as a longer-term investment you would be welcoming these cheap maidsafecoins as a way to build your investment. Often when people use the word "unfair" on this forum they carry with it some sense of entitlement and having been 'wronged', which is a completely bogus attitude.  If you were merely stating that different people were treated differently, then I apologize.  Of course they were.  In a truly free market this will happen all the time.   Not sure what you mean by "fair".  I'm pretty sure you weren't forced by the government or anyone else to engage in a safecoin purchase.Your decision to buy shouldn't depend on what other people are getting in at.  It should depend on whether or not this is a sensible financial transaction for you.Just because some people got into bitcoin at 5 cents is it somehow unfair (or a poor investment) to buy now at $450?  Alexa is telling me moolah.io has a rank of 159,406... and outranks coinkite.com in the USA 35,717 to 68,651. Quite embarrassing.  Even the safecoin.io website was off by an hour.So we're in good company!   Largest single transaction so far is for 902.30406 BTC.  Don't know the largest on the Mastercoin side. Check here: https://blockchain.info/address/1KHfLixa2idRnZXMUfEisBati1vpywaH6E I'm suspicious the OP is really a member of the maidsafe team.This looks to be a much more authentic spokesman for MaidSafe: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=116788 No maidsafe/safecoin bitcoin IPO address yet?  Or am I just not seeing it?  Not an auspicious start to this IPO. I don't think CoinKite had much to do with it.  Moolah.io has supported Auroracoin from before the launch with similar products (although not the POS machine). Zero active connections on Windows wallet.  Is there some other configuring I need to do? Just came across this: aurmarket.isNice to see some infrastructure rolling out. I'm not sure why being zero-cost would make something worthless, or why adding cost would make something worth more.Isn't worth set by the intersection of supply and demand?  Merge-mining doesn't increase the supply (if I understand it correctly) and should actually make the secondary coin worth more because it would be more secure than if it were mined alone.
My understanding is this project ended when Shopify started allowing its merchants to accept bitcoin. Aurcoin.is Anyone? Potential for scam and actual scam are two entirely different things.  We have to work with the world we live in.No one has yet offered one iota of evidence that a scam is being perpetrated here yet, but evidence does exist that the airdrop is proceeding as advertised.  If you're looking for guarantees you'll have to call the FDIC. Well I didn't see that one coming.  Kudos to BCX for being the man and admitting his error. Other than because it is a scam, why would a SHA-256 alt-coin not be designed to be merge-mined with bitcoin? You'd better tell all the people on here who seem to be using it:http://aurcoin.is/And the 1300 members of the Facebook Auroracoin buy/sell group This is terrific.  As one of those early bitcoin adopters I am looking for crypto-related investments and will definitely keep an eye on this. Why do you think that photoshop was done by an Auroracoin supporter? Right. They can mine, they cannot buy.Do we now expect that everyone must be a miner to participate in a meaningful way in the crypto economy?  Does ZeroBarrier never buy and sell bitcoin, LTC etc?Is he such an objectivist hard ass that he feels he must destroy anything that smacks of charity?The airdrop, which despite weeks if accusations has shown no sign of being a scam, is a terrific way to put a lot of crypto in the hands of a geographically concentrated group of people.  It is conceivable that this will lead to people actually using it to **gasp** transact, rather than merely speculate.  This isn't about charity, it's about moving cryptocurrency forward. Please explain how Icelanders are to acquire BTC, LTC, or DOGE. WHERE did balduro post this?  Looks to me like you're trying to set him up as an amateur photoshop artist. June 2011 isn't so new.  Means he arrived after the giant speculative run up.  So maybe he's here because he is drawn to the fiat, not the technology.Is BCX about hardening coins, or hardening his wallet? This is different from Satoshi how? LOL a candy raper?  That is an interesting picture!  I can see it with a donut, maybe. BitcoinEXpress, please update your public service announcement now that the airdrop has begun.  For instance, you could provide evidence of the developer dumping coins and making millions, as indicated in the OP. Wow, lot of negativity on here, yet no suggestions of a better way of executing an airdrop.Kudos to Baldur.  Even if this is a total flop, he has led the way and others can build on this experiment.However for every seller of AUR there is a buyer who is willing to hold for longer term.  Because they know this isn't a 3 day experiment.  I remember when BTC were less than 10 cents and I still have some I  bought back then because that experiment isn't over yet either.In less than 3 minutes after reading your assertion I was able to determine there are 116,000 people on Facebook who claim to live in Iceland and are aged 35 and over.  And there are 220,000 people on Facebook who claim to live in Iceland and are 13+, so in fact more than half of the people that can participate in this experiement are in your segment of the population that are 'cut out of the airdrop'.I can't think of a more efficient way for one person to execute an airdrop at such low cost than using FB to validate, can you?Sure there will be fraud.  This is a project that involves humans.  If you're looking for perfection let us know when you build it. This is exactly the coin I've been looking for.  Finally my Dell Inspiron 5100 from 2002 can participate in the cryptocurrency revolution.  But only if you let me in early! Is this project still live?  Discussion seems to have ended abruptly both here and at reddit, and I can't get any of the links to load.Really sounds like a wonderful idea. I thought you had a point and was going to lock the thread.  But, perhaps this is a place large volume traders could connect with each other.If you're trading less than 100 AUR though, I agree.  Why wouldn't you do it on an exchange.
My internet must be different than your internet.  Please quote the part where the developer says he would deliver all the coins on the 25th. Now that's odd, because earlier you said:So the coin has attracted too much pre-mine value.  According to your thesis a more moderate rise in price would have led to more liquidity and greater ease of disposing of the coins.  Because of course a lesser increase in value would have attracted more market participants.  Right. So if he can't dump his coins now and make off like a bandit when the float is low and the price is high, how is he going to make any money after the airdrop?Where is all the liquidity suddenly going to come from?  Are you planning on providing it? Would like to see Auroracoin up on some Asian markets, as it is now the #3 cryptocurrency by market cap (coinmarketcap.com)一个硬叉车已得到执行。叉车5400块在重力和添加阻塞时间减少了一半,奖励一半,一半时间增加了一倍,五、尽快更新1.1https://github.com/baldurodinsson/auroracoin-project/http://auroracoin.org/resources/auroracoin-qt.zipAuroracoin-一个冰岛Cryptocurrency午夜GMT公布二月2空降到冰岛人口三月25Auroracoin是一个加密的货币冰岛。 21元硬币,25块奖励。 它是基于Litecoin和premined是50%。 预埋设地雷硬币将分发给整个人口的冰岛开始2014年3月25日午夜。Auroracoin是旨在打破桎梏的菲亚特的货币金融体系在冰岛。冰岛已受到金融危机和通胀。 这不仅对整个银行系统的瘫痪在2008,但货币金融史的冰岛是一个的通胀、货币贬值和货币管制。Auroracoin是一个很好的机会,让冰岛人使自己免受货币管制和政府机密的货币。Auroracoin基于 Litecoin 协议。 然而,通过空降到 premined Auroracoins冰岛民族,旨在达到icelander几乎每一个。 这一次的活动将会创造条件,冰岛人的开始使用货币,为他们提供一个Start(开始),使他们认识到货币及其可能性。 空降后,唯一的方法将获取Auroracoins通过挖掘和交易。空投蓝图http://www.auroracoin.orgauroracoin@auroracoin.org交流:https://www.cryptsy.com/markets/view/160https://cryptorush.in/index.php?p=trading&m=AUR&b=BTChttps://poloniex.com/exchange/btc_aurhttps://www.mintpal.com/market/AUR/BTChttps://c-cex.com/index.html?p=aur-btc讨论:http://www.reddit.com/r/auroracoinhttp://www.reddit.com/r/AURmarket块探险家:http://blockexplorer.auroracoin.eu/https://aur.cryptocoins.at/explorer/chain/auroracoinhttp://auroraexplorer.atorox.net/池:http://unipool.net/auroracoinhttps://aur.cryptocoins.at/poolhttp://aur.pool.mineabit.comhttps://aur.cryptoculture.net/http://aur.scrypthp.com/http://aur.easy-mine.euhttp://aur2.easy-mine.euhttp://aur.speedhash.euhttp://aurora.greekpool.euhttp://aur.cloudminers.net/http://Aurora.LeetPools.comhttp://aur.bitember.com/P2池说明:http://www.reddit.com/r/auroracoin/comments/1x89pe/mining_aur_using_p2pool/http://aur.p2poolnodes.com:12347/static/http://aurp2pool.no-ip.org:8084/http://aurp2pool.no-ip.org:12347/static/http://aur.zcoins.org:9772http://p2pool.crunchpool.com:12347/static/http://taken.pl:12347http://aur.coin-lab.com:9450/static/http://solidpool.org:12347/static/http://aur-usa-east.crewdoginvesting.com:12347/static/http://aur-usa-west.crewdoginvesting.com:12347/static/http://aur-asia.crewdoginvesting.com:12347/static/http://aur-eu.crewdoginvesting.com:12347/static/http://liberty-miners.com:12347/static/http://cryptovein.com/[/list]RPC: 12341NET: 12340样本auroracoin.confCode:rpcuser=usernamerpcpassword=passwordrpcallowip=localhostrpcport=12341port=12340gen=0server=1addnode=93.158.203.104addnode=2.248.159.250addnode=93.31.123.188addnode=85.25.194.238addnode=82.128.238.235addnode=5.9.157.150Premined 硬币位于:Code: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 Is there anyone here who can do two translations jobs for me?The first post here, into Chinese: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=446062.0;topicseenAnd the index page here, into Chinese: http://auroracoin.org/Name your price in BTC, AUR, or USD.  I hope we can make a deal! Good idea.  I've started threads on this here http://forum.auroracoin.org/viewtopic.php?f=9&t=195 and here https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=498236.msg5481392#msg5481392 I'm looking for developers to build a web wallet for Auroracoin like this wallet for btc:https://chrome.google.com/webstore/deta ... aimemcihcjgithub is here: github.com/andrewtoth/BitcoinWalletShouldn't be too hard,as one only has to change the bitcoinjs there, to be able to read/verify and sign AUR addresses, I'm told.If you're interested in building this for the community:1. name your price in AUR, BTC or USD2. tell us how long it will take you3. link us to examples of previous workcross-posted here: http://forum.auroracoin.org/viewtopic.php?f=9&t=195 I've had so many bad experiences hiring developers over the web though.  Are bounties really the way to go?If so, what sized bounties do you suggest for what types of tools?   To get away from the relentless talk about pools on this thread, join a discussion on merchant tools for Auroracoin here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=497730.new#new Auroracoin distribution is especially well structured to encourage spending/commerce rather than speculation.  Making that happen smoothly though is going to require a suite of tools for merchants who have never used, or even heard of, cryptocurrency before.What is the best way to make this happen?1. Pay a firm like CoinKite 25btc to adapt their tools to AUR?2. Lobby coinpayments.net to support AUR?3. Setup bounties on this forum encouraging developers to build tools from scratch?4. Some other option? You'll want to speak with balduro either here http://forum.auroracoin.org/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=2 or here https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=236607 now also trading on Cryptsy Auroracoin needs merchant tools.Please request they add Auroracoin to their supported currencies here:https://www.coinpayments.net/coinreq Bit of a price drop and difficulty drop today.  Any ideas why? And we're done!Thanks to everyone who downloaded a wallet and learned about Auroracoin.  Hopefully you will all promote it to your friends and, if you're a developer, I hope you'll stick around and help make this an even better project. Only 3 spots left, then I'm closing it down.   Follow it here: http://forum.auroracoin.org/viewtopic.php?f=11&t=31 I'm not a developer... can you explain what you mean by this? I've been intrigued by the idea of a geographically-confined cryptocoin.  I think it will speed practical adoption.  Just think if 1,000,000 bitcoin users all lived in Vermont instead of being spread across the USA.  People would actually be buying and selling in BTC on a daily or more frequent basis. balduro, you need a moderator at the auroracoin.org forum as spammers are making a mess of things
Still some coins to give away get it while you can! If I'm reading this correctly AUR was the second largest traded cryptocurrency by BTC volume over the last 24 hours at cryptorush.in:https://www.cryptorush.in/index.php?p=trading I have been a bitcointalk.org member since September 2010 and during that time no alt-coin has been as exciting to me as AURORACOIN.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=446062.0;topicseenIn my enthusiasm to support AUR, I am giving away 50 AUR (current value on cryptorush.in approximately 0.0075 BTC, or $4.41) in 0.25 AUR increments to the first 200 users who post their Auroracoin addressin this thread: http://forum.auroracoin.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=62Download your wallet here: http://www.auroracoin.org/Note: do not post your address in the thread you are currently reading.  Giveaways are no longer allowed on this forum. Somebody working on an Android wallet here, which is good to see: http://forum.auroracoin.org/viewtopic.php?f=11&t=31Hopefully some other developers (or donors) can pitch in. Finally got my btc out of there. Why does his trust rating not show red on his posts?   Got them out last night.  What a relief. Anyone else having trouble getting their 'real' BTC out of BitcoinBuilder?  I put my request in last week.  Nothing by Saturday.  No reply to emails.  Then I uploaded identification verification information.  Now it says I have no Real BTC left in the account, but it hasn't landed in my wallet.Almost as hard to get money out of as Mt. Gox! Auroracoin is the most exciting cryptocurrency for me since bitcoin! I'm still buying all the large amounts I can.  If you've got 100+ AUR to sell, PM me your best price. Warning: I've paid for AUR coins with this user and not received them yet. Tried to do an Auroracoin to Bitcoin exchange.  I offered to go first, despite the fact I'm a member here since September 2010 and he's been on the forum only a few months.After sending him 0.12 bitcoin, he has gone silent and not sent the AUR. I'm having problems as well.  My BTC withdrawl request from Friday hasn't happened, my email to Josh hasn't been answered, and I have a negative balance in one of my addresses - how does that happen? Buying AUR at 250:1 btc for quantities under 1,000Buying AUR at 225:1 btc for quantities over 1,000Buying AUR at 175:1 btc for quantities over 1,000 with Mt Gox BTC only At the moment Mt. Gox is at $368 while BTC-e is at $626.  368/626 is 0.588.Why would anybody pay more than 58.8% for Gox BTC?  And given the possibility you may never get your Gox BTC out, you should pay significantly lower than that.Yet over at bitcoinbuilder.com people are bidding up to 75% to own Gox BTC.  Not only can you arbitrage for good profit, you're exchanging jailed bitcoins for free bitcoins! I'm still buying AUR at 300:1, or a negotiated rate for quantities over 1,000 AUR.PM me if you're a seller. Yes, I'm buying at 300AUR to 1 BTC.  If you have large quantities, we can negotiate. I've started a buy/sell thread for Auroracoin trading here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=455326.new#new I'm buying large amounts of Auroracoin.Paying 300AUR/BTC.PM me if you're looking to move large amounts.**MTGOX DISCOUNT** if I pay you at your Mt. Gox address my rate is 250AUR/BTC Selling up to 1,000 btc at 90%
I'm willing to sell at 90%, but the buyer gets up to 1,000 BTC. Who is the "he" who never paid for the debt that people sold? Can you tell us why?  Is it because a court won't be willing to assign a fiat value to the BTC lost? I'm buying Auroracoin, please PM me if you're selling.@300 AUR per BTC Is Auroracoin on an exchange anywhere yet? We've seen this call from you many times before. What makes this time more likely?(Serious question, not sarcasm.  I am fan of EW analysis but have been burned on this call before many times) I live in Canada and I tried to do a dollar withdrawl from MtGox.  After several weeks of nothing I traded them for BTC and moved those to Cavirtex.  Is there a way to download account transaction history from BTC-e into a .csv or Excel file? uh-oh, is this the ultimate Elliott wave contrarian indicator?  http://www.broadwayworld.com/bwwgeeks/article/Elliott-Wave-International-Becomes-First-Market-Forecasting-Firm-to-Accept-Bitcoin-20140117I wonder why they didn't start accepting them back in September 2010 when they ran their first article, and a bitcoin was only worth 6 cents? Has masterluc left us?   Masterluc, please weigh in on this surprisingly resilient price action but with low volume.  We need some guidance! Because you expect a interim top at that point, or because you expect a breakout to the upside? Buy BTC on whatever exchange you use and transfer them to btc-e to buy LTC. Back in the early 1990s I used a business intelligence software product called Metaphor DIS.  Still the most amazing piece of software I've used, even 20 years later.  Now it is sold under the name Meta5.I'm trying to connect with other users.  Has anyone here used this? It's been awfully quiet around here.I'd like to hear from BrightAnarchist about all this bullishness.  What's your view? I had previously paid 70 BTC for a used iPod touch, so 25 for an iPad was a bargain!   Is this wide arbitrage opportunity ($10 between MtGox and BTC-e, $5 between MtGox and CaVirtex) technically significant? How about Litecoin trading on CaVirtex?  Any plans for that?  Would be terrific if you could beat MtGox to the punch. Hear! Hear!Or some sort of email subscription service - for which I'd be willing to pay BTCBTCBTC Does that mean you're going short, or you're buying?Or you're just buying for the short term?
So, are you now bullish, or does this not impact the wave count going forward? Translation for the uninitiated?? Are you surprised by the swiftness of the down move?  What are the implications of such a speedy down wave on future waves? Was this thread amplifying things when bitcoin rose from $10 to $266?  Because you mentioned earlier that this thread was predicting doomsday from the start. If you're actually worried about this, you aren't cut out for speculative ventures.Not only are most people on this forum not reading this (excellent) thread, most people who hold bitcoin aren't on this forum. somebody wants back in badly... 4,500 bid keeps chasing the price up Should we expect the wave behavior of this crash to be similar to the crash from $30 back in 2011, or does EW analysis indicate a different behavior this time?  (Or is it to early to surmise?) Any analysis of the current slump?  (@$214) Is the extent of the drop dependent on the extent of this wave?  For example, if this wave goes to $1000 would the drop end up stopping much higher than if this wave goes only to $350? Indeed, I wish more Canadians were using CAVirtex.  Pretty thin order book supporting that $173.50 current price. Really?  Like those salt-of-the-earth Occupy types? When the names are finally released it will be fascinating to see all the (champagne) socialists on there.  No doubt the lefties will make up the bulk of the list, but "capitalism" will get the rap.As usual the Canadian part of the story is underwhelming: $800,000   Where do people get this info? I'm pretty inexperienced at EW.  Can you give us a little more details as to why 380-620 looked possible yesterday, but tonight you think we may be topping? I thought BTC market was crazy.  Then I checked LTC market.   Back in June 2011 when the Mt. Gox hack happened it was revealed there were 60,000 accounts on the exchange.  Do we have any way of guesstimating how many accounts Mt. Gox has now? Found an online solution, thanks for those who contacted me with offers. The only data I have is that linked to in the OP.  Actually it would be a subset of that data, as I'm just looking for one electoral district to be done, not all 107.What other data would you need? No GIS pros on here?Can anyone tell me if I'm at least headed in the right direction. I need a poll-by-poll map of a Ontario provincial riding that shows colour-coded results.For example, each poll should be either dark blue (large Conservative win), light blue (narrower Conservative win), light red (narrow Liberal win), dark red (large Liberal win), light orange (narrow NDP win) etc. etc.The percentage vote of the winner, and the voter turnout percentage should also be shown in each pollI am unfamiliar with the mechanics of solving this problem, but I suspect it has something to do with using these files to create the map: http://www.elections.on.ca/en-CA/Tools/ElectoralDistricts/LimitedUseDataProductLicenceAgreement.htmAnd this data to determine the winner/colour of each poll: http://www.wemakevotingeasy.ca/media/EO_Site/unofficial_244/results_2011csv.zipThen I'm guessing I'd want to be able to view the maps in something like this: http://www.giscloud.com/Can pay in BTC or USD. 
So what does that mean for U.S.-based miners who sell their bitcoins? Thanks I think Bitcoin Ticker is going to do the trick, if I can get the sounds working properly on my iPad. I'm looking for an iPad/iPhone app that will sound an alarm to wake me up when bitcoin hits a price point on MtGox that I select.  Does anyone know of such a beast?   S3052, we seem to be spiraling hiring on steady volume.  That is, the same amount of voluming is causing bigger and bigger dollar jumps in price.  It **feels** like our foundations are getting thinner.  Or is that only because I am looking at absolute dollar change and not percentage change?Does Elliott Wave speak to this issue?    I need a 90 second video to promote a website project.  Something like this type of video would be acceptable: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xzVfrGqzyv4Would need it in a hurry (by Tuesday, March 5 - is that even doable?).If you'd like the job post examples of past work and name your price. Bitcoin has finally reached the status of a speculative fx play in a 'mainstream' publication.  Are we thus at a top?http://moneymorning.com/ppc/reports/bitcoins.php?gclid=CIvtyPml0LUCFeVDMgodcw0A3Q See here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=145876.msg1551457#msg1551457 Currently the best bitstamp ASK on XRP (ripples) is 47,500:1btc.At 100,000,000,000 XRP minted and a BTC:USD rate of $28.25 that's a total market value of $59,473,684.Seems a little pricey.The best BID is 12,501 XRP:BTC.  That gives a market value of $225,981,921.   @massivebitman, are you able to build this idea?How much BTC would you want to make it happen? Hey, your SMS alert site looks good.Here are some ideas, not sure how much work they would involve nor am I willing to pay to have them built at this point, but do with them what you want:YouTube bitcoin tipjar, perhaps with additional functionality like this: http://www.embedplus.com/vBulletin add-on that allows users to tip posters for good posts, and allows posters to hide content until user pays to reveal.  Could be based on this:http://www.dragonbyte-tech.com/vbecommerce.php?productid=40&do=productSimilarly, a way for http://status.net/ site owners can allow users to tip or charge for contentBuild a site like http://blahtherapy.com/ were listeners can charge for their service, or talkers can tip them if they choose Will pay 1 BTC per 100,000 XRP in any volume from 5,000 to 1,000,000 deleted Thank you OP for the explanation, because I was pretty confused until now.So the level of trust required to use Ripple is the same as I need to use, say Mt Gox.  Is that correct?Is it possible for one of these gateways to run off with a bunch of currencies?  Or to get hacked? How does Ripple 'deliver' my $100 from Arkansas to my brother-in-law in Korea?  How does he 'cash out' of Ripple? rJzAwqVF3fuKvxRegZMfrFSQQrXJA9Dpms Interesting.Do you have access to Japan auto auctions?  Or do you have a used car broker that you can work through?A good number of Canadian car enthusiasts buy older vehicles from Japan auctions because of the condition of the cars, and because some models aren't available here.  That usually means wiring money to a broker in Japan and all the hassle and expense that entails. The idea of p2p microblogging was mentioned incidentally on another thread and it got me to thinking:-is this a great idea?-is there anything out there like this already?  (I found this and this)-what about a p2p microblog client integrated into a bitcoin wallet?  Is that what this is? http://socialvpn.wordpress.com/tag/peer-to-peer-twitter/ Interesting.  Something like what was discussed here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2141.0Glad to see you've built this. Hilarious.I wonder what the process is like to create one of those videos.  How does he know what words will work with the movement of their mouths.
Even in this video Ron Paul makes more sense than most politicians:http://youtu.be/igQlbesF0zA Thanks.  Fixed. Maclean's is probably Canada's biggest newsmagazine:http://www2.macleans.ca/2013/01/02/why-bitcoin-is-the-banking-industrys-newest-biggest-threat/ Why does it always seem that the first person to denounce 'haters' in an online argument is usually the one making hateful comments?  Is it some variant of Godwin's law at play? A thousand bucks doesn't sound out of line to me.  Didn't bitcoin.de go for more than $20,000 over a year ago? Just came across this SEC-avoiding crowd funding idea today.  Maybe this is an approach that would work for refugees from GLBSE.www.lendingclouds.com Just make the referral reward a function of how much the referred users spend at the site. A referral reward system.And once there are enough people on board, it would be great to have different trivia 'rooms' for different subjects (history, sports, entertainment, science etc.) Great idea, trying it now.  Thanks for building it. My dad used to tell the story of when I would cry before bed every night.  Finally he said "I'll give you a reason to cry" and promptly spanked me.  After that I went to sleep every night without crying.Of course some parents nowadays know better than their forebears and would never spank their kids.  Their presumption brings with it its own reward.   I wondered if it was legal issues around being a securities exchange.  And what the impact would be on other exchanges. Has this turned out to be a scam, or was it shut down for legal reasons? you should contact the owner at cavirtex.com  He has done considerable investigation into this issue already, I believe. +1Don't forget that he paid for his mining rig.  Not payed for it.   Nice looking site, interesting idea.Why don't you tell us your name, where you're located, maybe post a picture.  It helps build a little reassurance after the recent debacles around here. This is more of a question than a suggestion.  Here is the problem:http://www.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/small-business/sb-digital/web-strategy/a-kickstart-to-raising-funds-on-kickstarter/article4105948/Now how could a U.S.-based entity setup shop to allow foreigners to support Kickstarter projects using bitcoin, and also help foreign entrepreneurs raise money via Kickstarter? Gorgeous grey convertible in excellent condition. Comes with hardtop, power soft top, power heated seats, power headrests/windows/locks/mirrors (including rearview mirror), cruise control, AMG replica rims, leather seats.  Very powerful 5 litre V8 engine 322 hp when new.  I have owned this car since I imported it from Japan in September 1996.  Maintained at local independent European specialist shop.  A/C does not work, needs front shocks.  Other than that it is a beauty.BTC900 or make an offerWill deliver within 300 kms of Toronto, Ontario.  PM for delivery beyond that. Exactly.  Real people with real names and a real location I can actually drive to.  Patrick who? When might we see some other securities launched on the havelockinvestments.com site?
Is there a psychologist on this board who can give us a professional diagnosis on MNW? Is bitcoinmarket.com still operating?  The site is still up but trade volume is zero.I used this site back in 2010 and it was very good then.  I wonder why now that the potential volume of business is so much greater, the owner doesn't seem to be marketing his operation. Hummmm, is this kind of format trickery in place in the original wording of the bet, wherever that is now? So just to be clear, you know beyond 99.9999% certainty (the standard you agreed with on the donk podcast) that BC Systems is Atlas.  'Cause what you're saying to the community with your bet is even though there is a 99.9999% probability that pirate is a scammer, we still shouldn't pass judgement.  You see when you condemn someone for judging, you yourself are judging.  So you really want to make sure you've got all your ducks in a row. Now this is curious.  It seems this whole "10000 btc bet" thing is motivated by a desire to teach everyone a lesson that they shouldn't pre-judge anonymous "businessmen" on an Internet forum who offer astronomical roi, and yet here we have Matthew judging BC Systems that he is Atlas - not a benign allegation.And since MNW is challenging BC Systems to admit he is Atlas, it seems reasonable to assume MNW does not have conclusive evidence that BC Systems is Atlas, otherwise he would simply proffer it.Am I missing something? This guy is the old Atlas?  Yo, Atlas, how about the 20 btc you owe me from the debacle with the miners you were selling? So where are the auditing and insurance services we seem to need?  Must be an opportunity here for someone who knows about that stuff. So I see another exchange (bitfloor) has been hacked.  How long until cavirtex is attacked?  Perhaps they can assure us in this thread that they do not store the bulk of our deposits online. Anyone interested in making an offer on this name? 15 for Canada, 25 for the U.S.A. The main difference is that to bring a car into the US easily it needs to be 25 years old.  Otherwise you'll have to Federalize it which is very expensive.I've always bought at auction through the services of a broker, never travelled there.I would recommend Scott at http://www.japancardirect.com/ Yes, I've bought my last four from Japan.  It's straightforward if you live in Canada. Whoa!  I'll bet there was some tobacco in his shorts after that! From what point are you counting the start of wave 1, the inception of bitcoin? Interesting point.  Is anyone attempting to track aggregate demand across all trading options, to the extent that that can be done? Thanks, now I get it.  I said 'bullish' but meant 'bearish' which you answered anyway! Could you label the bullish case on a chart for us?  I'm confused by your description: is the $12.16 price the end of a B wave or a C wave? @RustyRyanI like the older European stuff.  My current bunch are a 1990 Merc 500SL, a 1991 300E and a 1992 Alpina Biturbo.  The last one is coming out of the (mechanic's) garage hopefully this week.  I've been waiting months to drive it.Have you considered a Porsche 944 S2 or Turbo S?  Fantastic handling, terrific acceleration and at least in the S2 fairly affordable to keep on the road.  They've probably hit the bottom of their depreciation curve and are starting up the other side.  You should be able to get into a decent one for well under $10K.   Looks similar in functionality to this:https://www.bitcoinary.com/ You weren't brought up to be selfish and greedy, you were born that way.That is why capitalism is successful: it has a proper understanding of human nature.That is why socialism is an utter failure: it is fundamentally flawed at its root.  It can never succeed because it depends on human beings to be angels which they aren't.  Without the incentive to produce most people won't.  
Great to see you're doing this, MS.Perhaps advertising on this Filipino-Canadian forum might generate some business for you: http://www.filipino.ca/forum/category-view.asp I think this idea has some merit.Of course I live in Northern Ontario where "mining stocks" are quite popular and everyone trades tips and gossip about mining companies.   What is an "IRL" market? I like it.I would have a lot of use for a site like this for automotive repair questions.  Often I have to go to various forums to find solutions for problems I'm having with one of my (old) European cars.  If there were different 'channels' on Rugatu (ex: BMW expert, small engine repair expert, linux troubleshooting expert, relationship advice, etc.), you might be able to recruit people to your site who have no familiarity with bitcoin, both on the questioning and the answering side of things, just because they need expert help with something or because they are an expert who wants to make some extra cash.I wish you every success with this, has real potential to expand the appeal of bitcoin. One year today that bitcoin hit $33.I should have sold.Just about 21 months since I joined the forum The website looks terrific, and the concept is excellent as well, but it won't let me register.Says "Something went wrong" after hitting Create an Account. Nice!  Can you modify it to work as a vBulletin or SMF mod?  For instance, tipping posters on this forum for particularly insightful posts? http://www.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/economy/currencies/canadian-envoy-to-iceland-sparks-loonie-controversy/article2356634/page1/If they're willing to give up control over their currency, why not switch to bitcoin?  Do they really want the Canadian government setting their monetary policy?Come on Icelanders, get lobbying your gov't to use BTC! 1. and 2. Possibly, but when faced with a choice between incompetence and conspiracy I tend to think meddlesome politicians are more incompetent than part of a grand conspiracy.  Most of these guys couldn't conspire their way out of a paper bag.3. For sure.  They feel they know better than you and your family, that is why they keep regulating your lives.  Well, where this film was shot is the same country that gave Henry Morgentaler the Order of Canada remember. Well you edited your response pretty quick.  You must have read the article after initially just looking at the pictures.How else do you expect The Man to pay for all your welfare programs if not inflating the wealth out of the hands of the middle-class? I am sick and tired of the OWS crowd bandying about this old canard.Read this and tell me who is really getting screwed by whom:http://www.zerohedge.com/article/entitlement-america-head-household-making-minimum-wage-has-more-disposable-income-family-makThe so-called 'poor' in America have more 'currency' (ie. votes) than the Rothschilds, Rockefellers, Waltons or whoever your favorite whipping-boy is this week will ever have.  The problem isn't the wealthy, it's politicians.And if you don't like a debt-based economy, DON'T participate in it.  Stop borrowing.  Save your money before you buy stuff.  You know, like your grandparents did.TAKE CONTROL OF YOUR LIFE MAN!  YOU'RE ONLY HERE FOR 80 or so YEARS, STOP BLAMING EVERYONE ELSE AND GET A GRIP. Why would a pool operator have zero fee, or even pay me to mine? Can someone recommend a clearly-written, succinct book on economics that would be suitable for the average middle-of-the-road municipal politician?Something that can explain in everyday language, to a person who may not be prepared to hear the truth, that government intervention in any market (ex: housing) inevitably leads to a unforeseen consequences and a lower standard of living for all.Something that can wake-up a meddling 'progressive' to the fact that their do-gooderism is making more misery for all of us.Suggestions? That's disturbing, they used to be quite quick... At least on the disbursement side.Is anyone else experiencing delays like this, or had other problems with Cavirtex?  I had been pretty happy with them. Quite a spread at the moment between Cavirtex and Mtgox, with fair-sized volume on the Cavirtex ASK.   I'm interested in your car for 100 btc.  How many miles on it?  Automatic or manual? Interesting... Subscribed (mods, why can't we subscribe without posting like on other forums?) Feedzebirds is terrific.  It is projects like these that lead me to think the decline from $33 to $3 is just a blip in the growth of bitcoin.Now how about a similar service for people who "like" or "recommend" on Facebook? My novice guess would be to short the EUR/long the USD.US$-denominated debt will likely contract faster than the Fed is printing.
Apparently there is quite a bit of leeway in the timestamp:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=48782.msg581628#msg581628 Refill from the office is a great idea.  Their charge of 0.15 euro to use the system is significant when you consider people sometimes only park for 15 minutes.  I think there might still be room for a btc-based solution, particularly if it is open source and free for municipalities to use.Of course you're right there might be only 2 people in a city currently using bitcoin, but that is the point of a system like this - bring bitcoin to the masses, even if they don't fully realize they're using bitcoin. I haven't seen an SMS or app-based system over here (Canada).  Does it require any sort of hardware investment by the parking authority?  I wonder how much of a slice of the action the phone company is taking to handle the transaction, especially on smaller payments of fifty cents or less. I see.  Is the block timestamp still a factor if the transfer of coins is within a closed system?  For example, if my bitcoin balance is stored not on my smartphone wallet, but rather in an account with the parking authority and then transferred to another account with the parking authority?Or, is there a way the parking system could add it's own, internal-use-only timestamp? +1I agree this is an ideal use of bitcoin.  In this scenario the users don't even need to know or care anything about bitcoin.  Just the fact that the game owner sees it as a way to monetize his application is enough.When we had a couple apps on Facebook, we struggled to find a way to properly price our virtual goods in a way that enhanced gameplay.  We had to be careful not to over-issue or under-issue our in-game currency.  Using an outside currency would have solved that, and bitcoin has the added benefit of being suitable for online use.Implementation in just one big Facebook game would really propel bitcoin forward.  At least in terms of its USD value.   Really? No Japan-based users here? What exchange is easiest, and cheapest for bank transfers, if you're living in Japan?I would have thought Mtgox would have been best, but I can't find any fee details on their website for Japan. I can't find any discussion of bitventory.com around here.  Not worthy? Wow!  You guys speak for God now?  To me it sounds like someone with a lot of hate for his fellow man.  Someone who believes that life is a 'struggle' or a class 'war' and who is missing out on what an amazing place and time we live in.  Socialism gnaws at the soul.  And this is the kind of discourse it produces:  Why are you so full of anger and hate?  His statement was so ridiculous I didn't realize others would actually think it had merit.  So for those of you reading this thread from Zuccatti Park, the following actions by the man you elected would be considered socialist:-nationalizing Chrysler-nationalizing General Motors-individual healthcare mandateThose are three pretty big ones.  And never mind the appointment of radicals throughout the administration and the left-wing social policies such as going to war against Arizona's attempt to bring order to immigration in the state.Of course you'll respond with 'he's not a socialist, he's a fascist', but fascism is just another form of socialism.  And maybe Bush was that type of socialist too.  Who cares?  No one here is defending Bush.  He would be yours to defend. What's pathetic is that anybody still believes socialism is a viable solution to anything.  Name one jurisdiction where socialism has done a better job than capitalism at elevating people out of poverty.  North Korea over South Korea?  East Germany over West Germany?  Sweden over Switzerland?  Pre-1980 China over present-day China?Socialism enslaves, both figuratively (America's inner cities) and literally (USSR, Poland, Hungary etc. etc.).  How socialists sleep at night, having foisted such a soul-destroying forumulation on people, is beyond me.  They seem to think the world is their laboratory and we are just lab animals to be used in whatever evil experiment their minds can devise. Great!  Then you won't mind if we vote for Herman Cain, who is also to the right of George Bush.He has an impressive and eclectic resume that includes just about everything except community activism. So in fact the single issue is: socialist in white house.  Which is what they've been saying all along.  But your talking points tell you to yell 'racist' to shut down the conversation.  And you obediently comply. Great job done by bitsky, thread closed. 1. Stick a QR code on the side of the currently existing parking meter2. After parking your car you scan the QR code.  You are taken to the website for that parking spot which tells you if there is any 'time' left on the spot from the previous occupant.  You pay for any additional time you need then go about your business.3. If Lovely Rita meter maid comes along she scans the QR code to see if any time is left on the spot.Benefits: -bitcoin is ideal for such micropayments-municipality doesn't need to go around as often to collect coins-thieves have less incentive to break into the meter-setup cost to the municipality are very low: some stickers on already existing posts-since the transaction size is so small there is no need to wait for confirmationFor cities that no longer use traditional meters there would need to be workarounds, for example numbered parking spots with the related QR code on the side of the payment station.As a side benefit, in a world where everybody was paying for parking with bitcoin, you would now be able to visit a website and find a vacant parking spot, or at least one that isn't being paid for.  This would also reduce enforcement costs as Lovely Rita would know what spots to target before she even leaves her office.Am I missing anything on the technical side?  Is this a worthwhile idea? I think it is an interesting idea you have.As a variation, consider http://blahtherapy.com/ but where the venters could reward the listeners with btc tips.  This would both incentivise the listeners to give good advice and serve as a ranking or feedback system whereby venters could determine whether they want to talk to a given listener or not. Tiago,That is good enough, but in the meantime I was sent a private message by another member who made me an offer that I accepted.  If that falls through I'll let you know and we can make a deal instead. Thanks for the tip Matthew but ocr doesn't seem to work well on this document.  Maybe it's been photocopied a few times before being scanned.  If somebody can make it work either with OCR or the old-fashioned way, I'm willing to pay a fair price. I need this repair manual in an editable format.MS Word works for me, but if you have another suggestion I'm all ears.Tell me how much it will cost me and when you can have the finished product delivered. Still 100 btc/$1000 daily, but I didn't ask for an increase there.I did ask for an increase to the monthly limit but I don't know yet if they did that for me.
I'm happy to report that my account has finally been unfrozen.  More than 2.5 weeks but at least it happened.  I successfully transferred some btc OUT of MtGox. +1 I feel your pain.  I'm wondering at what point it makes sense to book a ticket to Japan and investigate what is really happening with my money. What about the people who HAVE submitted their personal identifications and documentations?  Have any of them had their accounts unfrozen?  It has been 2 weeks for me and still you have not provided an ETA as to when it will be unfrozen, nor do we see many on this forum saying their accounts have been unfrozen.What is going on at mtgox?   That's odd, because I've bought virtually all my bitcoins through MtGox, and done most of my selling through MtGox.  And this is deemed 'suspicious' behaviour?I will admit the recent behaviour of MtGox is suspicious.  I didn't realize that implicates their long-term customers.Get your act together.  It has now been 2 weeks.  I expect more than form-letter reassurances after that amount of time.   http://finance.yahoo.com/q/hp?s=^GSPC&a=09&b=3&c=2008&d=09&e=4&f=2011&g=d&z=66&y=0Came across this on zerohedge tonight.  Check out the close today and the close exactly three years ago.  Great!  Hopefully they will begin to answer their private messages.And maybe one of them could respond to this thread:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=45229.40;topicseen Have you been able to get your account unfrozen yet?  I'm still locked, with no answers from the Help desk or the user on this forum purporting to be Mt Gox support, or from admin@mtgox.com. That's encouraging.Really?  After being a customer with them for a year I'm now an anti-mtgox nut for wanting to be able to access my own money in something less than a week after providing documentation?  What would be 'reasonable' customer service in your view? Thanks for the sample, private message sent.Edit: Translation problem solved, topic locked. Around that time many accounts seem to have been put on hold, mine included.  Despite my sending in the requested documentation the account is still frozen for withdrawls (I can still trade however).Have you been able to withdraw USD or BTC from your MtGox account?Have you been able to get it unfrozen, if it was frozen at this time? +1Good question.  My concern has reached a new level.  Sure would be nice to be able to pick up the phone to call them. I am looking for price quotes to have this document replicated in English, both as a PDF and as an html page.  I would like it to look as close to the original as reasonably possible, price wise. I would like it to use the same page layout, spacing and page numbering, but without the Alpina logos, parts images and other pictures.  Just leave a blank space where those things appear in the original.Post or message me a PDF of page 3 as an example of your translation work. Prefer to pay in bitcoin. The thing is, I HAVE provided all the personal information that mtgox requested, and my account is still blocked for withdrawals.  I'm trying to reduce my exposure to mtgox, but they've beat me to the punch. I've been a customer with MtGox for over a year.More than a week ago they put my account under 'pending review'.  I submitted the requested documents.  I have followed up with emails.  I am in their problem ticketing system and I am still unable to withdraw even one btc.I don't know if that "raises a red flag" but it sure is an inconvenience and poor customer service.  Just completed a very smooth and timely transaction with Al for 50 BTC.  Thanks Al.  A+ PM sent. +1 Thank you for this.If people are manipulated, it is because they are basing their buy/sell decisions on what others are doing, and not on their personal assessment of where bitcoin is going in the future.Take ownership of your lives, people! Right.  Because the brain trust in Washington did such a great job with Freddie and Fannie.And the Greeks have done such a fantastic job managing their public sector.The reason we're having "financial woes" is because politicians refuse to let people pay the price for their choices, and because the system is built on debt rather than equity.  In any event they're only "woes" if you're not prepared for them.  Or if you have a vested interest in perpetuating the system.  For those people who don't buy on credit, who live within their means, and have been saving for a rainy day, they are about to be presented with the opportunity of a lifetime. Assuming you're asking why we're not at the Wall St. protests... why would we protest the government intervention/bailout on Wall St. with a bunch of yahoos who want more government intervention in the rest of the economy/our lives.People who want to protest the bailouts should do it in Washington, not New York.  Of course bankers are going to take free money if you give it to them (or force it on them).  The problem is politicians who think they can 'fix' problems that they themselves created. Anybody know why cavirtex.com has gone offline?  
Dude, YOU are the one who says something is ok as long as the person consents, not me.  Read the thread again.  I believe molestation is wrong in all times and all cultures, irregardless of the opinion of the participants, or of members of an Internet forum.But it's pretty apparent your opinions are ad hoc, and you have no overriding guiding principles from which you draw you morality, which is why our discussion is going around in circles.Over and out. Really?  Are you sure nobody says this?  In any culture or time?  Aren't you being a little presumptuous?  What else do you assume nobody says?I'm willing to bet that more adult women on the planet today have chosen female circumcision than have purchased something with bitcoin.Don't assume everybody thinks like you, and don't assume that everybody wants your morality imposed on them. Instead of resorting to name calling ("hate!", "creep!", "uncivilized!") why don't you try and articulate your views?  I don't say you "hate" Christians, Muslims and Jews because you hold views diametrically opposed to them.  I don't say you're a "creep" because you have an opinion on one variety of sexual behaviour that is contrary to what millions of people have believed over thousands of years.If you have a rational argument that has a basis in something other than your own opinion, share it.  If all you're going to do is slag somebody, go work for MSNBC. Just because you have an indefensible position on some issues doesn't mean I've been using 'wordplay'.The truth is you believe homosexuality is 'good' and paedophilia is wrong and you can't articulate why.  You can't articulate it because you don't know.  Your positions are based on emotions.  You feel homosexuality is no problem because that is what the wider society is telling you, and because you think nobody gets hurt because it's consensual.You are repulsed by paedophilia and rightly so.  But the only argument you have against it is consent.  Every other argument used in favour of homosexuality ("It's inbred!", "Everyone has the right to love whomever they want!") can also be applied to every other type of activity.  So you're confused by your own position.Nanaimogold may not be the most polite poster when sharing his views, and it may not be good for his business (or maybe it is, what do you care?  Mind your own business).  But he does hold a position that is consistent with almost every non-declining society in history and almost every major world religion.  I realize that means nothing to you because you create your own morality and defer to no outside authority, but it at least means that within the scope of human history you are in the minority, so there is more onus on you to explain your innovative morality than on him to defend his.And when we have posts like this: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=41627.msg511058#msg511058, bitcoin2cash reveals his true colours.  He mocks people who have been abused as children, and sub-consciously connects nanaimogold's pretend victimhood with his current opinion on homosexuality.  If nanaimogold himself had asserted that was the origin of his views all you liberals would have been climbing all over him. Let me see if I understand you correctly: you believe no minors want to have sex, but if they did want to have sex, their guardian should let them do so.And you're accusing nanaimogold of what, exactly? So, you believe your guardian can consent to sex on your behalf if you are not an adult? So if I'm not an adult, you believe I cannot consent to sexual contact, is that correct?What can I consent to if not an adult?  For instance, can I consent to playing baseball or eating asparagus? I see.  And at what age do you believe a person is allowed to consent to these types of activities, and how do you establish that age? So you condone polygamy, incest, even cannibalism? I see.  Because initially it sounded like you were justifying homosexuality because it isn't a choice.  You were just defining homosexuality as being outside of choice.So what you're saying now is that as long as there is consent, something is morally fine in your eyes.I assume that you therefore endorse voluntary polygamy.  Are you also o.k. with voluntary incest?  Is there any activity between consenting adults that you do not endorse? Bitcoin2cash said nothing about consent, he spoke only about inbred attraction.  I'm trying to establish what his position is, just as he is trying to determine nanaimogold's position. We hear this all the time.  Like having automatic attraction that 'isn't a choice' somehow makes it o.k.So are you asserting that if someone feels an attraction "without choice", it's fine for them to act on that attraction and live their life in that way? This feels like PC-intimidation going on here.  What exactly are you trying to accomplish with this question? Puhleeze, name one libertarian 'dictator'.You can't, because they're all regulators. Atlas is still here, see post #3 above. I've been around these forums for awhile and just realized I haven't seen hide-nor-hair of Atlas or kiba, two big posters, for some time.In fact it appears that Atlas has no posts since April.  That can't be possible.  And all my private messages from him have disappeared as well.And kiba, never short of words, hasn't even logged on in September?Maybe they've all cashed out and moved to that libertarian seasteading project we've been hearing about. You would think, though, that since bitcoin is susceptible to mainstream media fearmongering that it would be wise to avoid any hint of unnecessary edgeiness.  There are thousands of places on the planet that could handle a conference like this.  New York was a good choice, it is a capital of international finance after all.  Now how about London?  Zurich?  Tokyo?  Even Rio, Dubai, or heck holding it in Tripoli should bring some free media!  Even the heart of the beast - Washington D.C.  You know, some place where there are lots of bitcoiners already, and some place where there is media hanging out.   The whois shows tibanne as the owner.  Must have done a deal after the auction closed.   Did this domain ever sell?  Any word on what it went for if it did? Late eighties to early nineties European autos.  Fulfilling teenage fantasies.Unfortunately, I'm better at buying than selling.  
My mistake.  The problem was I was CPU mining for ixcoin and GPU mining for btc.  All sorted out now. When I'm bitcoin pooled mining, I'm running at about 180,000 khash, but on ixcoin mining with the same miner (poclbm) I'm getting about 800 khash/second.Any ideas why that would be? If S3052 is able to generate self-fulfilling prophecies, then you'd better get on board!  I am looking to connect with someone buying/selling automobiles in Switzerland.  Please message me. Or,3) an on-going world-wide credit contraction that will dwarf the events of 2008 is compelling btc holders to liquidate into the one asset class that is rapidly shrinking: USD.Although it would be helpful for gold to drop to give credence to that theory. I'm a little unclear as to why the S&P downgrade is such a big deal.  It's not like people are unaware of the credit-worthiness of the USA and need to check with S&P to get the real scoop.  If this was some newly minted country who never published economic data, or an obscure mid-sized manufacturing firm no one has ever heard of I can understand asking S&P for their opinion, but the American situation is no secret. I'm looking for an iPad in good condition, preferably 3G but not a requirement.Looking to spend 25 to 40 btc depending on configuration and condition.Preference given to Canadian sellers due to shipping hassles. You do realize you'd be calling your (public) school every other day, right?   Fantastic!  Congratulations, I hope your exchange is a resounding success.  It's functioned very well for me so far. I 'lost' 100 btc last winter.  I'm not sure whether the address I sent them too was from an old wallet, or was one of those 'one time use only' MTGox addresses. http://domainnamewire.com/2011/06/21/sedo-sales-lis/Anyone want to make me an offer for bitcoin.mobi?    This is a cool idea, sorry I missed your test.This is similar to an idea I floated several months ago: a tip jar for Chatroulette-type sites.If you do another test session PM me with the date/time as I'd like to join in. Why is it when a business hosted and administered from Japan is hacked from an IP traceable to Hong Kong the FBI gets called?  Have the Japanese outsourced their police work? No one is saying the illegal trades shouldn't be cancelled.  The argument is over voluntary trades not involving the stolen btc. Mea culpaAfter eating some cheese and a spicy snack I've had a change of mind.Since price conveys information about the market, and since price conveyed by the sale or purchase of stolen funds is false and is not to be reasonably expected by market participants, anybody who sold out voluntarily, or bought voluntarily, was not doing so under reasonably expected conditions.  If somebody sold 500,000 btc because they're a dork, that's one thing.  If 500,000 were sold off because they were stolen, that is something completely different.While I find the attitude of "I made a mistake and sold because I panicked and now I want some governing body to fix my screw-up" appalling, and if I had sold sub-$10 I probably wouldn't be whining for a rollback, I would agree that in this scenario a rollback is the right thing to do. Because of course it is not greedy to want to have a voluntary trade rolled back after you discover you may be able to sell for more.  Maybe you didn't read my entire post.  I indicated that trades with stolen coins were not legitimate. I guess you weren't trading tech stocks in 1999-2000. Other than the trades with the stolen coins, how were the other trades not 'legitimate'?  Did somebody make a trade non-voluntarily?  I stand to lose quite a bundle from the rollback, but I won't be complaining to Mt.Gox.  They're in a tough business and they're doing a lot to help bitcoin along and days like today have got to be rough.  Still, if somebody panic sells at 8 bucks because they saw somebody else panic sell at 9 bucks, I fail to see how that is an illegitimate trade. Fortune online:http://tech.fortune.cnn.com/2011/06/17/the-clock-is-ticking-on-bitcoin/Dwolla is the most popular client?When one views the level of accuracy in these articles it demonstrates how you really can't trust the media to give you right reporting on  anything.
That is exactly what lots of libertarians think government is for, and only for. If this is the route that allows Canadian speculators to shelter their bitcoin profits inside a tax free savings account then I would sign up. I'm a glass half full kind of guy, so bitcoin is going to $100 but the Cup is going to Boston. That's why I'm glad it isn't random.  And it amazes me one concludes this sprang up fully functional from the primordial goo.  Randomly.And if it all is random, and is returning to nothing, why waste time talking about it or trying to make it better?  For on what basis would we define 'better' anyway? Cuba is pretty much a closed system (except for all the European and Canadian companies interfering).  That lab experiment isn't working out so well, though it is working out as predicted. I think it is a good idea, one that could generate a lot of free publicity for the properties involved. Ah, this reminds of the good old days.  When I bought a used Android phone right here on Bitcoin Forum for 70 BTC.  Way back in March, 2011.Nothing like a used $1400 cell phone! If you see incorrect reporting on bitcoin in an American publication you can report it here:http://www.mediabugs.org/They will open a discussion space for the news 'bug', and will try to contact the reporter or organization that made the error.  Sometimes corrections will be issued.There is something similar for Canadians at http://www.regrettheerror.com/, though it looks like only the webmaster can post the errors. I don't think the rise and fall of one narrow asset class can always be linked to easy/tight credit.  For instance the rise in Microsoft stock from the 1980s to the present was largely a function of growing profitability, though price fluctuations along the way may have been influenced by the availability of credit.The price of bitcoin could be somewhat at the mercy of the credit markets.  For example if we have a repeat of 2008 and credit dries up it may force some holders of btc to sell in order to raise dollars/pounds/Euros etc. to pay their bills/mortgage. That depends on your timeframe.  Last week at some points it made sense to buy above 24.  If somebody didn't buy below 11 because their analysis indicated it was going to 7, then they acted rationally there as well.This price fluctuation is only relevant to short term speculators.  If you believe bitcoin is the way of the future then why would you care about day to day price changes? If you just use etransfer to withdraw your money you don't need to enter banking information, though the fee is higher than with direct deposit. This is a great idea, I'm hoping to attend... will know better closer to the date.Is there an agenda yet? Another smashing of the forum record: 6219 posts in one day.  At this rate the number of total posts ever made on the forum will double in a little over a month.Has anybody ever seen anything like this? One of the reasons I originally post this request was so that Canadian bitcoiners could discuss creation of a Canada-based exchange.Well such an exchange has been launched.  Thank you to those who built this site: https://www.cavirtex.com/home I have now transferred btc into my account, bought and sold btc, and transferred CAD out using etransfer.  Everything went smoothly.  Terrific service, keep up the good work! How long did it take for the etransfer to happen? I have had several smooth buys and sells today.  Haven't yet tested withdrawl of CAD to bank account. You're kidding right?Why does every generation have to learn the same lessons over and over again.  Wow, you've dropped quite a bombshell with your first post. 
I'm very glad to see a Canadian exchange spring up.  Nice also to see a contact phone number.It would be reassuring if we saw some actual owner names and business address on the website.  Links to long-established Facebook profiles and Bitcoin forum profiles would also provide a level of assurance.And a Facebook page would help users promote the site... Possibly these very negative posts do serve a good purpose.  By scaring away speculator noobs who are here just to make a quick buck and don't really understand what bitcoin is, it reduces the risk to the rest of us that someone will lose a pile of money, run to their congressman to whine about it which in turn brings a lot of ill-conceived government regulation.By maintaining this as a community of bitcoin devotees who understand this is more than a get-rich-quick scheme, we will grow more steadily and on a firmer foundation. Some people might have tried to be all over it (it's called arbitrage), but there are a couple things to consider.  What is the volume being bid on at Britcoin?  Was it 50 or more btc, or just a few?  Also, actually getting btc at $13 on mtgox was very difficult.  I placed two orders well above the $13.xx asking price and my orders didn't get placed, probably because of an overload of activity on their server. . . PM sent. I guess it would be 'market failure', in that the market did not choose it.  That doesn't make it a practical failure.Free marketers don't necessarily believe the market always makes the perfect value decision.  For example, Car Company A model 1 may be a better value than Car Company B model 1, that doesn't mean it will succeed if everybody likes Car Company B because it is the local employer. Actually that is called "theft".Violence, or more exactly the threat of violence, is what the government uses to take your coat and give it to somebody else.For an understanding of how this works, see this article by another bitcoiner: http://www.nostate.com/116/the-penalty-is-always-death/ I might be misunderstanding the OP's question, but assuming I'm not...Bitcoin could very well fail in the marketplace.  That doesn't mean a deflationary currency is inferior to an inflationary one.  It just means more people 'vote' for inflation by adopting the inflationary currency.Just as they've voted for inflation over the last 100 years by constantly re-electing politicians who promise them 'freebies'. If you're just going to make up your own definitions for words then there's really no point in having a discussion.  You seem to think a so-called rich person who doesn't give away his stuff is being 'violent'.  Well then I guess the world is full of "violence".  If we're going to redefine violence we might as well redefine 'poverty' and 'wealth'.  Oh wait, that's already been done too.And where is this place where "all the folks around starving"?  No socialist politician in Europe or North America is talking about feeding the starving.  They are talking about taking from the working and giving to the fattest 'poor' people in the world.  In fact they exacerbate the real poverty in other countries by erecting trade barriers.  They don't seem to care about the truly poor, just their own constituencies.  The difference is that there is no violence involved in the 'rich' keeping what they have earned.  Giving the 'poor' free medical coverage requires forcibly taking, with threat of violence, something from other people.But really, why do socialist types always insist that medical care, education etc. be paid for through taxes?  Since the unions have a lock on the education and healthcare industries, why don't they simply tell their membership to provide these services for 'free' to the poor?  Since unionized teachers and other workers seem to vote Democrat/Socialist in strong numbers, they surely won't object.Problem solved, no IRS required. I wonder how much Wikipedia could make using this?So pardon me if these are dumb questions, as I'm not technical, but could this be redesigned to be a browser plugin?  Something Mozilla could use to pay the bills?Or, could it be a browser plugin that could be custom-branded by charities, sort of like those branded search bars, and used for fundraising? So since this forum now seems to have 1000+ visitors most of the time, it would be a good idea to run this applet here and generate some btc![edit] ChatRoulette could finally monetize all that traffic. S3052, where can we sign up for your subscription service?Any decision on posting your updates on Facebook? Actually sub-forums for many different countries, not just Canada, is what I was suggesting.  Assuming each has a moderator, I don't think it would become to unwieldy (but I really don't have a clue what I'm talking about in that last sentence).Currently very few forum users fill in the location field in their profile making if difficult to connect with bitcoiners in your own country or province.  How many Canadians at this forum aren't even aware there is an effort underway to build a BTC<->CAD exchange with interac email transfers?  Perhaps some of them have the technical skills to help make this happen more quickly.  This scenario is likely happening with other countries as well.I guess country-specific forums could be setup at a different URL, but it would be nice to keep as much of the community at bitcoin.org as possible.  At least until we've grown substantially more. I think country-specific forums would be useful.  It would help nationals to find one another to organize off-line events, trade bitcoins in person, etc.If you create a Canada forum and need a moderator I am happy to volunteer. So if I want to trade $10 million in bitcoins face to face with my neighbour do you want me to report the order to Mt Gox so that you can get a look at it? S3052, do you post your updates on Facebook?  I'd like to follow you there if I could.  I hardly ever use Twitter... This presupposes the 'average joe user' is short-term speculating, and that speculating is a zero-sum game to which everyone is entitled to all the facts.Individuals should be making buying and selling decisions based on their own circumstances and where they think the value of bitcoin is going.  If someone is playing the very dangerous game of day-to-day speculation, then they should be sophisticated enough to live with the fact of dark pools.  Note that dark pool users also have no idea what other dark pool users are doing.The idea that everybody is entitled to know what everybody else is doing is somewhat akin to those forum members who seemingly want to punish early adopters because they had the 'unfair advantage' of finding out about bitcoin before everybody else.  Your own happiness shouldn't depend on other people being unhappy.  Your own buying/selling decision shouldn't depend on everyone else's buying/selling decision. Let us know when they protest for less government spending and less government intrusion.  That will be news.
The SmartMoney story is currently being linked to from the homepage of Yahoo! Finance:http://finance.yahoo.com/ Yes, S3052 has done a really good job applying Elliott Wave theory to bitcoin.  What I find extra amazing is that EW theory seems to apply in this market despite the fact the composition and number of participants is changing dramatically and quickly.  The overall investing behaviour of new participants seems to match old participants.  I would have thought they would have been bullish immediately upon finding out about bitcoin, but apparently their willingness to buy waxes and wanes with everybody else. Do you mean the part where you called anti-government types 'hypocrites'?Do elucidate. Gee, that sounds an awful lot like... I am referring to that type of person who thinks the government should step in and "do something" about "obscene athlete wages".  You sound like you want to start a competitive league with lower ticket prices.  I commend you and wish you well.I'll probably stick with watching the pros, though. This is a terrific idea for another bitcoin exchange.  While it eliminates the anonymity, it could serve as a good basis of trust between traders. I agree with you 100% Steve.  The problem is that the people making the argument on the other side often don't believe in free market competition, but they quite often believe in forcible imposition of what they think is a 'better', 'more fair' or 'more just' position which is derived neither from a higher power or some other externality but really from their own mind.  So appealling to the free market is futile because they don't recognize it as having any type of authority. I probably wouldn't use FB connect myself, but it is a good idea.  Speedy, easy registration, and makes bitcoin more friendly for the uninitiated. What I'd like to know, casascius, is where you get the authority to determine what is fair?And where do you get the authority to determine what is valuable work and what is parasitism?And what makes you think you know the exact rate at which old btc should be converted to your BCP?Anyway, why should later adopters be rewarded either?  Maybe some central authority should simply distribute all btc equally over the planet.You say you've done well outside of bitcoin, presumably in your software business.  You haven't indicated that you feel you've been over-compensated in that realm, but how do you know you haven't?  Just because you've provided a 'valuable service'?  But maybe that 'valuable service' could have been obtained more cheaply from somewhere else or someone else.  Have you therefore stolen some portion of what you have, even though it was given to you voluntarily?You feel bitcoin approximates a pyramid scheme.  But at the end of the bitcoin pyramid scheme everyone will still have their bitcoin.  The problem is you have greater faith in the USD than in BTC.  You think that a few years down the road the USD will be worth more in BTC terms than it is now, and that it will be that way by design.  I'm afraid that most people here believe that BTC>USD in a few years, and if it isn't, it won't be because Satoshi designed it that way.The real danger here isn't that some early adopters will profit (in USD terms).  The danger here is that even after a 70 year experiment with the Soviet Union, even after a 40 year side-by-side comparison between East Germany and West Germany, even after the fantastic demonstration of the power of the free market in China over the last 2 decades we still have people who think they know better than everybody else.  People who feel they can plan things for the rest of us so it turns out more 'fair', 'equitable', sunshine & rainbows.  That type of thinking, given free reign, always ends in utter disaster and usually a great many deaths.  That type of thinking is the very antithesis of the bitcoin project.You may have good intentions, but there is a reason that is the pavement on the road to hell. Oh, well if your point was to ask if we would have voted for such a fix, I would say I would not have voted for the $100 billion solution nor would I have voted for the $10 million solution.  That is a completely different matter from what I surmised was the point of your question, which seemed to be that the fixer didn't deserve $100 billion simply because it's a really big number.You analogy really isn't that relevant because we are not voting on how much to reward Bitcoin pioneers by valuing BTC.  By valuing BTC today, we are voting on the expected future value of bitcoin.  I don't think anybody is paying $9 for 1 btc today because they want to reward the pioneers.  Do you? This is a perfect example of why central planning by 'experts' doesn't work better than the market.$100 Billion to fix the meltdown of 2008 would have been a screaming bargain which any number of countries would have been wise to take up.  The U.S. sunk a hundred billion into AIG alone.And you would have turned down such an offer?  Why? I just finalized a Liberty Reserve to PayPal transaction and it went very smoothly.  He kept in close email contact at each step of the way.  Very professional.  Thanks for good service. 1. What skills do you have that you could sell for BTC?  Programming?  Graphic artist skills?2. I'm running a rig, and have also been speculating at MTGox.  I wish I had taken the money I have sunk into a rig and just bought btc outright.  I would be ahead by nearly a factor of 10.  Too bad there isn't an emoticon for **BURN!** Yeah, there needs to be a Canadian-based exchange permitting interac email transfers.  Preferably within a TFSA account! If you're defining bitcoin as the leading product for "people who love freedom", I might agree with you.  However if you think a large corporation can't fork the project and have a much more widely accepted (and thus more valuable) payments competitor in a very short time then I'd disagree.Facebook Credits, or Google bits, or MSFTMoney or whatever would have 10-100x the acceptance almost immediately.  Most of the 600+ million users of Facebook don't care about Libertarianism, anarchy, anonymity, deflation or whatever else drew most of us to bitcoin.  However if they can transact on Facebook easily, quickly and with little transactions cost then they will be very satisfied with the FacebookBits.  And if Facebook expands their payments system to the rest of the web, as they seem inclined to do with their other offerings, then bitcoin will lose a lot of it's raison d'etre. I know little about software and even less about hardware, so I'd like to hear if this idea is viable or pie-in-the-sky.Imagine you are going through the drive-through at your local McDonald's/Tim Horton's/Dunkin' Donuts to pick up your morning coffee.  When you arrive at the ordering point the restaurant senses a transponder in your vehicle attached to an Android/iPhone that identifies you.  When you get to the pickup window the cashier hands you your order and the cash-register automatically debits your bitcoin wallet via the transponder for the amount of your purchase.Basically it is doing the same thing as transponders for toll highways.  However what I am proposing is that a single transponder could serve for purchases at multiple different vendors.   In your blog posting did you mean to say that we are oversold, or overbought? I think it is a bit simplistic to say 'conservatives' will be more of a hard sell than liberals, especially in the USA.  Traditionally the term 'conservative' is often equated with 'status quo' or 'establishment'.  But as the TEA party is demonstrating, the conservatives are the rebels and the liberals are the establishment, including Wall Street and a good chunk of the kleptocracy/corporate establishment.To the extent that bitcoin is seen as sticking it to the Fed, you should get a lot of grassroots conservatives on board - though not the country club set.Liberals might be happy to buy their pot with bitcoin, but the realization that they will lose the ability to control our lives from D.C. will drive them bonkers.  Hopefully we can sneak it past them before they catch on.  Do it in August when they're at the beach house. Fantastic!  Is that in the print edition too?
Here is the Time.com article:http://techland.time.com/2011/04/16/online-cash-bitcoin-could-challenge-governments/ So it looks like it is the TIME.com tech section, not TIME magazine:https://twitter.com/jerrybritoStill pretty amazing, I'd say. Dude, what are you trying to say?  Are you saying bitcoin is not appearing in TIME magazine? Who said it's going to be on the cover?  Somebody else needs to READ CAREFULLY.The fact it is in TIME at all is gigantic, assuming it is true. Wait a second, bitcoin is going to be in TIME magazine?!!!!!! Thank you for the offers, I have acquired the phones I need. Wow I don't think I'd risk such a large sum in one lump.Has a transaction ever been 'lost in the mail'? The only downside of a thousand different exchanges is that none of them will have enough activity to make a market.Is there a way that these exchanges that are all using the same code, but are located in different countries, can somehow aggregate their bids and asks so that there can be trading between exchanges? The "do we need another exchange" question is partially dependent on where you live.  Since there's no PayPal->Mt Gox service anymore it is more painful for us Canadians to purchase bitcoins.  A Canadian exchange accepting either PayPal or email bank transfers would be a terrific addition to the economy. Yeah, I know a guy in Canada who charges $100-$150.Makes me wish I had chosen differently back in my university days! I've had this Nokia since November and it is in mint condition.  I hardly ever use it and already have a Blackberry so I'd like to be rid of it.Some more details: One other cool feature it has is an FM transmitter.Looks like the black one: I like the way the menu on this site works: http://www.plutinogroup.com/Just the hover->reveal sub-menu action, not the behaviour after that when you go to a sub page.I'd like that functionality for a WordPress site I'm building.  Does anyone know of an existing plugin, or could build that functionality for me? Okay, assuming it is indeed 'trivial', I'd be interested in funding a build of this idea on top of a StatusNet (identi.ca) base as a proof of concept.If any php developers out there want to take a stab at it, post your price here.When you're done it should include:1. user A pays user B to follow user A, based on a either i) a price set by user B, or ii) an offer made by user A and agreed to by user B2. user A charges user B to follow user A, based on a price set by user A3. user A can tip user B for a particularly brilliant tweet Jim Gilliam has an interesting suggestion to monetize Twitter: pay-to-followhttp://3dna.us/a_non_sucky_twitter_business_modelIs this something that can be accomplished by bitcoin under the current Twitter API? That was fast... looks good. Nice!How about a discussion board/comments section under each project?Pretty easy with Disqus.  Or use Facebook Connect+fb board and have the discussion posts go down the Facebook newsfeed for extra virality. I'll be interested to see how an Anarcho-Socialist defines the term, since it would seem that Socialism requires the use of force by definition. +1This is a great idea, and I'm posting mainly to make sure I'm able to keep track of this thread since the forum subscriptions don't work.Please keep us up to date, and I'd be willing to help fund development of this idea. Surely you don't expect the students to write and execute on a plan for 3 btc?This is a good btc-earning opportunity for these students.  I'm trying to think of some myself but am having a hard time, er, executing. This is a really interesting question, because what makes bitcoin appealling versus regular old paper money, also makes it vulnerable to obsolescence.Because everyone using Bitcoin is using them on a computer, connected to the internet, a competitive P2P currency can be downloaded by everyone very quickly.  The barriers to entry are very low.I don't think the primary threat to btc1 comes from a technically superior btc2 though.  I think the threat comes from a more widely-accepted btc2.  If Google, Facebook, Zynga, eBay or some other middling to large internet player comes out with their own fork, it could instantly become the defacto standard.People won't adopt btc2 because they see the brilliance of a p2p cryptocurrency, they will adopt btc2 because they want to buy a tractor on FarmVille or some cookware on eBay.  FarmVille has 50 million users.  How many people are members of the btc1 universe?  Twenty thousand?  Even if btc2 is technically identical to btc1, the miniscule btc1 economy will not be even a speedbump in the way of btc2.
I guess everybody has their own idea of what is "fair", or even that there is a right to their definition of fair.If I was supreme leader, my definition of "fair" would include giving Satoshi, the other developers, and people who furthered the growth of bitcoin a larger share of the btc.Some others might think Satoshi should get it all, and yet somebody else might think the government should have control and distribute at will.  The question isn't "is it fair".  The question is, "is this the way of the future, and will I be sitting on the platform or will I be on this train when it leaves the station - whether I'm in First Class or baggage." Sometimes it's more fun to challenge people's assumptions and definitions, that to simply assume what they are saying is valid and trying to answer it.  The new bitcoinmarket looks pretty slick... but their last news update was March 3.  Has anyone here been using the new site, and are the bugs worked out? Thanks Nevermore, I'm taking humble up on his offer.Are you in the North or South?  Good to see another Ontarian on here. humble, you have a PM Atlas don't worry, if we were in the same state I'd send it to you.  But things seem to get held up crossing borders, and the Cdn government wants their 13% when it crosses too.We did try this, from 2 or 3 angles, and were unable to make a connection.  Maybe the modem is the problem? I did try your guide... it was going o.k. until I rebooted.  Linux tries to start, then restarts, restarts, etc.I'll see if there are any Ontario bids first... shipping across the border seems to take forever. Things have taken a turn for the worse and now Ubuntu won't boot up.I'm looking for someone who can install Linux, and get a miner going on this box if I mail you the drive.  I'm looking to plug n play.If you're in Ontario that would be a bonus...Let me know how much you'd like in btc, and what country/province you're in so I can factor in shipping cost and time.Thx Any forum members who have made a purchase from bitcoinrigs.com and want to provide feedback?  I remember the first time I saw email.  That blew me away.  I thought the post office would be going out of business.Then I was introduced to the www via a meeting at the local community college as there was no public access in our city yet.  My earliest recollection is of the Ford motor company website, which actually looked pretty sophisticated.I just wish I knew then what we know now about where the web was headed.  Of course, we're still in the earliest stages of this phenomenon.  YouTube is only 6 years old,  Facebook not much older.  Twitter younger, and bitcoin, even less! Agreed.  All those Facebook wall posts will be great marketing.Not only is this another way to get USD into bitcoin, it also looks like it will be the easiest, cheapest way for those of us in countries where we can't buy bitcoin by bank transfer. You're in SoCal right?  Probably you run into celebrities all the time down there.  Can you get a video of Paris Hilton with a sign saying "will work for bitcoins" or maybe Charlie Sheen with a sign "bitcoin, for winners"?It seems thinking of good video ideas is more difficult than one might expect.Do you know any people that already have a YouTube channel and get a few viewers regularly? Good work!We need one like this for Canada. This is a variant on the kickstarter model.  The difference being that your supporters (ie: investors) can actually earn a return on their investment:http://www.appbackr.com/Something like this for all kinds of bitcoin apps, not just iphone apps, would be a helpful way to spur the development of the bitcoin economic infrastructure. What skills do you have... bmxing, skateboarding... what about other things that do well on YouTube: play any instruments?  Do humour? Any technical skills that you could make 'how-to' video for?  Can you do animation?  Can you rap?  Any small kids in your household?  Baby videos are always big hits.   I'm paying for views, not for bruises!   In fact just to make sure this doesn't go awry, the offer is only good if you DON'T wind up in a hospital or funeral home.Anyway, you're selling yourself too cheaply.  You should hold out for more btc out of this forum crew.I like it! if the stunt biker video goes viral it could be a great way to spread the word about bitcoin!  Just include something like "this painful moment brought to you by bitcoin" at the end or something.Assuming it isn't a crime in this jurisdiction to incite someone to ridiculous behaviour, I'll send you 100 btc at today's exchange rate if the video gets 5,000 views by the end of May.  Maybe some others will chime in with donations, or bigger amounts for bigger view numbers. I know at least a few of you are fans of Elliott Wave.Are any of you following this guy?http://www.tradeyourwayout.com/I found him last summer, when he was calling for 1300 in the S&P and a continued rise into spring 2011.  All of which irritated me as I was expecting a decline much sooner.  However nothing succeeds like success, and it seems like he was on to something.  We'll know more in the next 6 weeks.Just wondering if you follow him and how accurate you've found him to be over shorter time frames, or if there are some other elliotticians you prefer. Wow talk about veering off topic, must be time for a Goodwin intervention.  Of course everyone knows that Hiter was a vegetarian.  It does seem that a lack of nourishment isn't really the problem today though, it's over nourishment.  Last year more people tied of obesity than of starvation.Where are all those population-control advocates who said in the 1970s we were going to run out of food (and oil)?  Oh yeah, they forgot about technology and the free market.  They usually do. If Charlie Sheen was our spokesman, Alex Jones would definitely hear about it.  I tried to flog bitcoin to Alex Jones this week but couldn't find an email address to connect to him.  He'd be a good one I reckon.  Must be somebody on here with a connection to him, given the political inclinations of this crowd.Of course we could also try the 4Chan/Justin Bieber approach:
Your forum statistics are not reliable because of the large number of spam accounts that are on here.I'm sorry if I offended you.  My remark was based on being a frequent visitor to this forum and only having one self-identified woman post in all that time.  And she came on here specifically to bash something someone else had said, not because she was a supporter of bitcoin.Also, I was referring to gender on this forum, not online as you seem to have interpreted it.  As to why some people don't feel comfortable posting, I have no way of knowing why they wouldn't do this.  And I don't appreciate the implication that it is the fault of other people on this forum that they won't do so.  If you have some concrete allegations to make, please put them out there (in the appropriate thread).The larger point I was making is it might be helpful to know who we are, so that we can more intelligently reach out to people who haven't heard of bitcoin. A small thing: put www.bitcoin.org in your signature at other forums you participate in A rule of thumb floating around out there is that a Facebook app user is worth $1/year.  I've had a few apps  and those that we tried to monetize actually peaked at $1/user/MONTH.  Too bad we didn't have more users.So yes, there is huge money in Facebook apps.  That's why Zynga is a $5 billion company.  By these metrics Farmville alone is taking in $50 million/year, I'd bet they're monetizing at better than average.I remember when My Aquarium launched in summer 2007 (one of the first apps), it was grossing $3000/day.  For a virtual fish tank.  Go figure. Yes this seems to be a big problem.  It seems any person you are talking to has to have an extraordinarily open mind or they won't 'get' bitcoin unless they are a geek libertarian who spent their formative years with Napster.Perhaps it would be useful information if we had a demographic breakdown of the current members of this forum.  Data like:-age-gender (are there any females on here yet?)-interests-profession-political views-geography-educationOnce we know who already supports bitcoin, then we can formulate a plan to go after the rest of the planet who are just like us. How long ago did you do this?  I'm trying to access mtgox and I'm getting:ForbiddenYou don't have permission to access / on this server.Apache/2.2.3 (Red Hat) Server at www.mtgox.com Port 80 Baron, mtgox claims he has been trying to get you on the telephone.  What do you say to that? Because the Europeans had just murdered 6 million Jews.  No one was left to pogrom. Then surely you have considered that there is a difference between people who claim to be Christians, and the actual teachings of the Bible?That is refreshing.  And pretty rare amongst atheists, I would guess.  Congrats on standing outside the mainstream on this issue. So he argues one possible reason for the decline in violence is because of the rise of leviathan.  Is this what you are advocating?Interesting that he points out a significant decline in the number of pogroms in Europe after WWII.  Gee, I wonder why that was?Of course in measuring the decline of violence it helps to have a very narrow definition of violence.  For example, by excluding over 1 million abortions/year in the US alone is an interesting approach.  Whether you are pro or anti abortion, there is no doubt that 'violence' is taking place during an abortion (lesbian libertarian feminist Camille Paglia has an honest view of what an abortion is, articulated here.Really though to deny the positive impact of true Christianity on raising the status of women, children, immigrants, the poor and others from the time of Rome to the present day displays a significant ignorance of history.  Also, Pinker should investigate Elliott Wave theory before declaring the death of violence in society. So are you arguing Canada is Christian or post-Christian?If you are saying the establishment (CHRC and their minions) is more post-Christian than the populace, we are in agreement.   Well in Canada they don't burn them physcially for heresy, but the liberals have something called the CHRC with which they burn Christians financially for heresy for violating secular orthodoxy.  You should check it out, quite scary.  So I'm not sure how you think we have 'advanced'.   And so we're right back to the start: "I'm ok, you're ok as long as you don't do this/that".  But, as always the question is "who decides who can do this/that".  That is why, waaaaay back near the start of this thread, Atlas pointed out that it is Just. Your. Opinion.Unless you can point to an external source of morality.I'm done. As implausible as a rational creature coming from a rational creator must seem, I would say that a rational creature coming from an irrational force is even more implausible.  And hence, a more irrational solution to the problem.Alas, I know of no other alternatives.  Do you?Please see the video: http://johnlennox.org/index.php/en/resource/who_created_the_creator/ I don't accept your challenge, because it makes no sense.I never said Stalin and Mao were motivated by their lack of belief in God.  In fact I can't think of anybody who was ever motivated to do anything by their lack of belief in anything?  Can you?I'll tell you what, I'll give you a list of atheist mass murderers, and you explain how their behaviour was inconsistent with atheism.You give me a list of Christian mass murderers, and I'll explain how their behaviour was inconsistent with Christianity.Ready? The great lie being perpetrated is that if religion went away, war would go away:Imagine there's no countriesIt isn't hard to doNothing to kill or die forAnd no religion tooImagine all the peopleLiving life in peace Most wars having nothing to do with religion, unless you're going to define lebensraum, racism, need for oil, communism as religious motivations. This canard is the biggest lie going.  More people have been subjugated, abused, and killed in the name of atheistic communism in the 20th century alone than have died in all the religious wars in all the centuries of human history.Yes, I have a source: http://www.hawaii.edu/powerkills/ Again, you are just stating an opinion.  Please tell me why this opinion of yours is rational.  Because, there are many examples I can think of where it appears VERY rational to put your will above others.For example, if an 8 year old kid wants to put his hand on the stove it seems rational, not to mention moral, for me to stop him.But let's not get distracted by arguments about those too young to make their own decisions.Let's say my 40 year old friend wants to kill himself because he has heard his wife is cheating on him.  I hope you would agree with me that it is rational and moral for me to stop him, not least because the rumour about his wife was a lie.And then of course you might say "yes, but your friend's decision was based on a lie".  And that brings us back to the heart of the matter: "what is truth"?  And that leads to "who says it is true", and even "so what if it is true, why should I live my life as if certain facts were true?"And inevitably, if two people have two different views about what is true, there will be a collision at some point.  And at some point there will need to be a standard against which their differing definitions of truth must be measured.  And if your standard is "rationality", then you need to define rationality, and tell us how we can know our brains are in fact rational.Once again, I'm not saying my rational abilities should be put over yours.  I am merely asking you to tell me how you know you are rational since your brain, by your worldview, is the result of non-rational processes. BCEmporium, I really know no other way to ask the questions so I'll have to assume you don't know the answers.  That would be the rational thing, I believe.  It certainly fits with this puzzle.It appears that what you are defining as rational is merely your 'opinion'.  Because what is 'rational' for you is to deny the existence of God.  But for other people who have weighed the evidence, or perhaps believe to have had a supernatural experience, or think they have actually communicated with God, it is rational to believe in Him.I shouldn't have brought up Stalin and Mao because it was inevitable it would divert the conversation.  But since we're there now, I'll just say that communism is the haunt of those who have put what they think is rational above all else.  They think rationality, science, intelligence (as they define them) are the way to organize a society.  In fact they were so enamoured with their brand of rationality they thought they could organize the economies of the largest, and the most populus nations on earth.  And now we have the rationalists in Brussels trying to do it for the European super state.  And I won't even get into the 'rationality' of eugenics. Are you actually claiming Stalin and Mao were not atheists?  Then we are stretching our definitions pretty thin.  Three seconds on Google will provide lots of evidence.I don't know what motivated their actions, but their actions are not inconsistent with a worldview that says 1) I am accountable to no one and 2) nobody has any intrinsic worth (other than just stating so as a matter of opinion).More semantics.  The substance of the argument is the same, because neither chance nor selection provide an objective basis for the idea that our brains are rational.I'm not saying humans are not rational, I'm merely asking how an evolutionist can know he is rational, given that the brain he is using to both define rationality and determine if he is rational is itself the product of non-rational forces. BCEmporium, I am not going to give answers to defend every nutjob who claims to have heard a word from God or publishes a book saying it is from God.  You cannot expect me to do that because I do not share a common worldview with them.  Nor do I expect you to defend the mass murders of Joseph Stalin and Mao, despite the fact they were the leaders of massive atheistic movements.Let's keep the discussion simple: 1. How do you define "rational" (since you claim this as the basis for your moral decision-making)?2. How do you know you are rational, when your definition of rational (and your knowledge of its rationality) is coming from a brain that is the product of chance? 
Looking just at the idea of rationality:1. How do you define 'rational'2. How do you know you are 'rational', assuming that the human brain is the result of a series of chance happenings Does anyone know if NPR has a similar show? I realize that your athiesm is not a "I do as I please" statement, but I don't know why.  Other than personal opinion, what do you base your morality on?  And if you say "rationality", how do you define rationality, and how do you know we are rational beings? But why do I need to know whether he is a masochist or not?  If I want to throw the punch, why shouldn't I throw the punch?  (I'm asking from an athiest worldview, not a thiest worldview)This sounds like justice by majority vote.  And as with defining "evil" and "rationality", where do you get your definitions of "good" or "loses"? Atlas, you are the most consistently clear-thinking athiest I have ever met.  You are a very rare breed.  All the more impressive given that you are 'only' 17.  Most people haven't thought this through by the time they're 77, let alone 17.Yes, I agree entirely.  That is exactly my point: we are rational, therefore odds are we were designed that way.If we are the way we are because of random chance, then there is no reason to believe what we perceive as 'rational' is anything other than arbitrarily decided by a bunch of (generally) white, male philosophers. I'm certainly not going to defend Islam.  That is for a Muslim to do.  If God exists, then we need to determine which 'religion' He established.  That is one purpose of Christian apologetics.If you don't believe there is a God, I don't think you can refer to 'rational' morality.  If there is no God, there was no creator.  If everything is random and accidental then we have no reason to believe our brains are configured to operate 'rationally'.  What our accidental brains define as 'rational' is, again, arbitrary. Your whole argument is based on one critical assumption: that there is no God.Of course, if there is no God, there is no point in seeking Him or attempting to discern what is His will and obeying it.But if there is a God then you have a standard for objective morality.  By 'objective' I mean outside of yourself.Also, you seem to be equating religion with God.  These are two completely different things.   Exactly.  Wihout being able to appeal to a higher power, all morality becomes subjectively defined.Thus calling anything 'evil' outside the context of a religious worldview is a self-defeating process."Religion is evil""Says who?""Says me"So now it comes down to a battle of opinions, which usually results in the person with the most guns dominating.No God, no objective morality. Just finished listening to it.  They did a good job, though it's too bad they didn't talk to someone more directly connected with bitcoin.It's a good introductory podcast to share around. The Iceland comparison is interesting, I thought it would be interesting to see how they fair.  I suspect they will do extremely well in the coming years since they choose the less interventionist way forward.Does anyone on here have first hand Iceland experience?  Any bitcoiners in Iceland?  Any bitcoiners in Ireland, for that matter? "It is not even take it or leave it. It's done. Ireland's only role in this now is to implement the programme agreed with the EU, IMF and European Central Bank. Irish voters are not a party in this process, whatever they have been told," said the diplomat. http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/ireland/8349497/Irelands-new-government-on-a-collision-course-with-EU.html"We have a hostage, it is called the euro," he said. "The euro is insolvent. The only question is whether Ireland should be sacrificed to keep the Ponzi scheme going. We have to have a Plan B to the misnamed bailout, which is to go back to the Irish Punt." This is going to fantastic to watch.  Will the Irish stand up to the EU Monster?  They've done it before... He has a few more tweets on this topic.  Seems the prospective tenant is Russian, looking to set up a mining operation. Maybe.  On the other hand if someone with no legal standing falsely accused me of something like this I wouldn't dignify it with a denial either.  Certainly in this case the onus is on the accuser to provide the evidence.BTW, who is the Third Baron you refer to?  I am a native English speaker, but it hasn't been obvious to me. Not that he is accountable to this thread in any way, but it would be helpful to Baron's standing here on the forum if he would respond to Jed's post saying that he (Jed) has been trying to contact Baron by phone without any luck. I think I have read nearly every post on this thread, but the two Wagnerian summaries that were just proffered highlighted two things I hadn't reflected on much:1) the unknown victim who supposedly lost 9000 BTC knew the address to which they were sent (obviously this was in his mtgox summary), and yet the supposed thief took no efforts to launder them but sent them to his own mtgox account directly?2) the theft took place more than a month ago and was just reported mid-February after the value of bitcoin trebled?  And the "stolen" coins were still in the "thiefs" account???If this was a theft, this is surely the most incompentent crime in the history of bitcoin. True, but in the meantime some guy allegedly cannot access his own $45K.  It has now been 12 days that this investigation has been going on.  How long is he expected to wait?  And if he is accused of stealing 9000BTC, why is $45K in USD under lockdown?He's not denying your choice.  Can he only express outrage if he is a customer?  First go the property rights, then the free speech rights...And, ceasing to do business with mtgox is no simple task - if you have several thousand to withdraw.This whole matter would be a lot easier for most of us to stomach if mtgox had a simple TOS posted saying he can freeze our accounts when he is so inclined.  The problem is this is happening retroactively, without notification.  Sure, you can say when we hand our assets over to someone we are under the expectation that they will do what they want with them.  Then I guess you could also say that if you lose control of your password you can expect to lose your assets as well.  Not the kind of system most of us would want to be a part of. Gee, the guy is maybe out $45000.  Let's hammer him on his use of English.   Thanks Kozi.  Now that I read the link I recall seeing this.  Not that I remembered the part about the limit, but I remembered reading about the guy with 90,000 btc.   Wait... does the $1000 limit apply to bitcoins too?Now I can't get btc out.  I thought the limit was just for $US->LR.  Maybe it is combined.Makes it kind of hard to buy anything substantial with btc from your mtgox account. Anybody else having trouble getting their USD out of mtgox into LR?  I keep getting the message "To comply with US regulations you are only allowed to withdraw a maximum of $1000 within a 24 hour period. Please try your withdraw tomorrow.", but I'm nowhere near $1000 limit.I had trouble a few months ago but eventually was successful.  Just wondering if it's just me or are others are experiencing this too.
Sure it's easy, if you already have a passport.  You can wait 20 days to get one in Canada. Or the value bumps up again as users seek the quickest exit -> converting their USD to bitcoin and getting out of mtgox. It is not 2 days.  It is since February 13th.Also, no one can tell us how to check for 'tainted' coins? Yes of course that is the end goal.  I'm just saying that given it is 2011 and we live in a real world where we have to pay taxes or face jail time, free-thinking people need to stay engaged in the currently existing political process if we hope to ever move the debate in our direction.As shown by the willingness of participants in this thread to cede coercive power to some unknown website purveyor retroactively, simple mass opting out of the current dominant political-economic framework is not necessarily going to lead to an arrangement favourable to freedom. I have no idea who Iain Banks is, but he seems to be implying that socialism is not suited to people unable or unwilling to see past their own sociopathic self-regard.Generally, people regard themselves first.  This is not a result of their political orientation, this is an undeniable characteristic of human nature.  You can explain the origin of this fact from both a Judeo-Christian or evolutionary worldview.  Which also testifies to the undeniability of it's existence.The political system which best incorporates this fact into it's schema will prove to be the most effective at producing desired outcomes.That is why socialism has been a complete and utter failure in every country, every religion and every culture in which it has been perpetrated.And the gall, the GALL of socialists to accuse conservatives, libertarians, free marketers etc. of being selfish or self-absorbed.Anyone who has had the misfortune to have to deal with a labour unionist, a self-righteous poverty pimp, or a self-loathing limousine liberal or 'intellectual' will know that socialists have made pursuing self-interest their religion - since they have generally abandoned the practice of true religion - and they are expert at it.The further difficulty is that the socialist has no qualms at all about using force to enrich themselves, while the libertarian reconizes your right to your own property.But Atlas, these are not reasons to abandon politics.  The problem is that generally politics is seen as the fight over who gets the goods.  Politics needs to be reframed as the fight over whether or not there will be a fight over the goods. Sorry to ask this again, but I think it's fairly important.Some on here have suggested that innocent recipients of 'tainted' bitcoins should have to return them to the original owner (ie. victim of theft).How exactly is a recipient of bitcoins supposed to determine if they are tainted?  Is there a master list somewhere of bitcoins under dispute?  Unless there is some quick way of checking the legitimacy of coins it would seem reasonable to expect commerce to grind to a halt.I have purchased most of the btc I own through mtgox.  Am I at risk of having these coins seized by mtgox because somewhere along the line, maybe months ago, some of these coins were involved in some dispute? I don't understand... how is a regular bitcoin user supposed to be able to determine if btc he is receiving are 'tainted'? I think it is a good idea.  I was just wondering earlier this evening how many Canadians were on here and now here's a way to find them.I've signed up but I can't figure out how to search for members.  I'm using Firefox... maybe I'm not seeing some option because of this? thanks tilopa but I don't think I could even find the address again.I'll just hope they reappear when I open one of my old wallets again  Thank you, that is exactly my point.  Just because I don't like what you're doing doesn't make it wrong, and it doesn't mean I can suddenly take your money.We don't get to decide for ourselves what is right and wrong, nor do we get to rain our own justice down on others arbitrarily.  There has to be an agreed-to process to handle disagreements.   The great thing about forex is there is always a bull market somewhere.Of course then there is always a bear market somewhere too.  And the leverage is spectacular.One way to dip your toe in the water is to sign up at currensee.com and follow more experienced traders.  I've also found the James16 thread at forexfactory helpful. Very clever.  He's making nice margins.  I guess he's introducing bitcoin to a lot of people, they just don't know it! Juries do not decide right and wrong.  They decide guilt or innocence.The law (poorly attempts) to define right and wrong.If members of this forum are going to start deciding the guilt and innocence of various participants in the bitcoin economy and deprive them of their property, based on some discussions on a message board, then we are all in trouble. Well, if I'm holding $10,000 for you in an envelope in my house because we are trustworthy friends, and I ask you where you got the money and you say "selling widgets on the internet", and I inform you that I am against the distribution of widgets and so I'm giving your $10,000 to a charity of my choice, how does that fit into the postmodern notion of anyone getting to define right/wrong?(Pardon the run on sentence) The question isn't so much about righting a wrong, it is about who gets to decide who did what, and what constitutes a wrong. hummmm, admin I think the last two posts are spammers... So I lost some more btc tonight... just disappeared into the ether.Tonight it was by sending from an online account to what must have been an address in some previous wallet.dat I had.  Previously I've lost bitcoin sending between wallets and swapping wallets around.  My technical incompetence has certainly cost me.Am I the only one, or could there be a substantial number of bitcoins lost forever?  (Please don't tell me I'm the only one ) I agree this is the right way to go.  Can't wait to see it!!!Does anybody know what would be the best time of the day to get media coverage? Doing the betting on here would bring bitcoin some exposure: http://www.intrade.com/ While Bruce's prediction seems wildly optimistic, almost anything could happen given the very small float of btc that are out there.  The virality of the web can cause astounding things to happen.Forget a shiek.  If just one medium-sized virtual goods company, or a tipping company like Flattr or Kachingle, or a second-tier social network like Friendster or Hi5 started using bitcoin who knows where the price could go.Or if bitcoin suddenly caught the attention of some forex traders on one of the forums, or if a mildly wealthy retiree who was fascinated by the technology started telling his mildly wealthy buddies, or better yet if we got an article in Wired, Fast Company, BusinessWeek or other mainstream publication... any of these reasonable possibilities could send it skyward.On the other hand, if a sizeable player like Zynga liked what they saw but instead of adopting bitcoin forked the project... I think that could be the end of this bitcoin.Another monkey wrench could be a credit collapse.  At that point people will sell everything, even gold and bitcoin, to pay their debts.
Jeffayle, PM sent. I'm interested, just sent a PM. Deal.  PM sent.I'm still looking for an iPhone/iPod Touch.  As an alternative to BTC or as partial payment I have a 'like new' Nokia N8 to trade. I'm looking for these phones to do some app testing.  So they don't need to be in mint condition, and they don't need to have 32 Gb etc.Post or PM me with what you would like to get rid of.  I'm in Ontario, Canada. That is correct, the NYSE will be closed on Monday, February 21st.  Which means it will make whoever 'protests' on that day look a little clueless to anyone who does happen to walk by.  There will be mocking of bitcoin.Tuesday on the other hand could be a better day than average, I would guess, as everyone rushes anxiously back to work. Maybe instead of underwear he could be in a barrel.  Sort of drawing attention to the fact the Fed is bankrupting the country etc. etc. Well that's something, great job jimbobway.  If this ever does show up in Wired.... BOOM! Yeesh this thread is so cryptic.  And the only message I can decipher from it is very unpleasant.  I hope clarification is forthcoming. Given certain performance parameters I'd be willing to donate to this project.One way to ensure compliance is to give out part of the bounty at designated stops along the way.Applicants for this publicity stunt should outline how they plan to garner as much attention as possible for bitcoin from their escapades. http://www.crowdcube.com/That should give a nice boost to crowdfunding.  I see it is only available in the UK.  I wonder what the regulations are with respect to equity-based crowdfunding.  Would those regulations apply to a bitcoin-oriented site, even though bitcoin isn't issued by the central bankers? Is that what this is? http://sourceforge.net/projects/wooki/ I think this is a great idea too.  Not only because it might draw national media attention, but because it will almost certainly draw local media attention in each of the markets you visit.  Those small town newspapers and television stations are probably starving for human interest stories.  We could watch the increase in nodes on the bitcoin map as you make your way across the continent.I'd wait for spring to do it though.  No point in needlessly freezing to death due to a logistical mixup.Though that would certainly guarantee media coverage. thanks for the advice... PM sent Nefario I've never worked with Ruby on Rails so I'm looking for someone to make a recommendation regarding a host and then set up this code for me.I can pay in BTC or USD, respond here or via PM with your required payment. I agree with S3052.  Silver could fall hard, lower than it did in late 2008, for the same reason as late 2008: people will be selling everything to get their hands on USD, to pay their USD-denominated debts.On the other hand I've been waiting for it to happen for quite awhile now.  This credit implosion is taking it's sweet time to arrive. Yes, great idea.Something you should post on WoW communities too if you haven't already. Asking for service providers to connect with you on Facebook or LinkedIn can help.  That way they reveal their real identity and you can see if they have a long-term established network of connections.  Sometimes you might even have a mutual connection. Also, there might be a plugin for SMF where users can vouch for one another, or collect reputation points. Since this is a 'financial' conference it would make sense to have S3052 attend as he's been doing technical analysis on here for months now.  Or Bright Anarchist.  He has a good understanding of the economics of it all (he wrote the article for Elliott Wave Theorist back in September).If you can give us more details, I'd be willing to pitch in to help defray costs if needed. Hey that is some good stuff!  Thanks for sharing it.  Small donation sent. Excellent, speedy service.  I can hardly wait!
There is a group, completedly inactive.  Please join and start a conversation there. In what sector do you foresee inadequate production capacity in the short term?  Surely there is no expectation of inflation in the computer chip sector?As far as food goes, if prices are rising because of the use of corn for ethanol for example, that problem could disappear as rapidly as it did two years ago when everybody parks their SUVs again and oil drops back below $30/barrel. Funny you mention LinkedIn.  They sent me a coupon code for $100 in free advertising so I set up an ad a couple days ago that points to bitcoin.orgSo far 24360 impressions and 6 clickthroughs.  It's setup to target members of these groups:Open SourceINNOVAHUB Open Innovation and CrowdsourcingMicropaymentsOnline micropaymentsMicroPayments aggregationForex TradingForex Professionals around the WorldForex | Currency TradingForex Magnates (http://www.forexmagnates.com)    Get yourself on CNBC while you're at it and I'll throw in $100 worth of BTC too Absolutely.  In part because these politicians will also think they will become part of the worldwide ruling elite.Europe is the perfect example of how half measures are 'inadequate'.  You can't centralize monetary policy but leave fiscal policy to the provinces - it must all be centralized (in their view) in order to "succeed".I don't think the Germans, Luxembourgers (?) and others will continue to bail the PIIGS to infinity.  They will either demand an end to the EU failed experiment (possible) or they will demand control over spending policy.  If the EU does fall apart and war result that will just be more "reason" for a tighter integration next time around.Think about where we were two years ago: Obama was massively (pathologically) popular in just about every country in the world except Israel.  I think a lot of people at that time would have gladly traded their local yokel for subservience to him.  Obviously the shine is off of Barry O. but I don't see why such a phenomenon can't happen again. Unfortunately this does not comfort me.  What it means is there are only two options going forward: politicians in individual countries will recognize the power of the internet and will allow their countries to become freer economically and more open and responsive politically, or politicians in individual countries will recognize the power of the internet and will subsume their power to an authority with worldwide jurisdiction.I don't see how the first option can win.  The public's impulse to get something for nothing (healthcare, education, pensions), and their fear of terrorism and economic collapse will have them begging for one world government.Innefficiency is only a problem if you're in a competition.  If there's only one government, it won't matter. Massive default will flush it out.  Deflation should also eviserate excess production capacity.  Once demand returns inflation will ensue due to the lack of slack in capacity (and possible rampant government printing by then). I placed my order last night and am looking forward to receiving my unit.However I am a little apprehensive as mining is the second most dangerous occupation in Canada: http://www.kanetix.ca/ic_life_info_life_articles_25  I'll provide a review once I'm up and running. Here's a nice looking portal system for SMF, free: http://www.tinyportal.co.uk/With some features that would be useful here including an article manager and download manager: http://custom.simplemachines.org/mods/index.php?mod=97  Congrats I think this is an business ideally suited to bitcoin.  I hope it takes off for you. As a wildly enthusiastic fan of bitcoin with hardly any understanding of the technical side of mining I am interested in this offering.But I would like to see some 'estimated payback' or 'expected generation' rates presented and open for critiquing by other members of the community. Could just use one of the already available SMF portal plugins.  They might not have a up-to-the-minute web 2.0 sytle but they aren't bad and they have a familiar look to many people. I don't have a question right now, but I have used such a service in the past.This was one of the things I was trying to accomplish with my vBulletin bounty: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1798.0I thought by doing it as a vB plugin it would be more useful than just a custom site devoted to paying for answers.  A vB/Bitcoin plugin could have other uses as well, and since vBulletin is so widely used it might help speed the adoption of bitcoin outside of our small community. Based on my bitcoin and forex trading history, I am thinking of starting a new business.Everytime I place a BTC sell or buy order on MTGOX I will immediately post my trade to the forum.  You can then place the opposite trade for any volume of BTC you want.  You are virtually guaranteed to make money.Every time I buy it goes down, and every time I sell it goes up.It's the closest thing to a sure bet you will find.  You can compensate me by tossing me BTC tips from your winnings. So I think this needs some explanation.  Are you saying it is absurd to call you racist because you are not white?Or are you saying it is absurd to call you racist because you are not white but you live in a mostly white country and have suffered racism? "Mixed with yellow Chinkees, yeah"Wow, political correctness has come a long ways! I think the benefit to the consumer is that other people have also paid to lower the price, so while you are paying 80 cents to lower it 50 cents, it may have already been lowered $20. If by 'soundest' you mean the currency that will have the most value in the future I think that would be the one with the most demand versus supply, and thus increasing purchasing power.On that basis I think the USD will do very well over the next 5 years.  If we're headed into another credit crunch (and I believe we are), and most of the world's debt is denominated in USD, then the supply of USD is about to collapse.  Even Ben B. can't print it faster than it collapses.After all the bad debt is flushed out of the system though, watch out for inflation.  Haven't seen this concept before.  Feels ripe for a bitcoin clone version:http://www.pegdown.com/ Am I understanding you right, you want somebody to look after your bounty commitments and make the payouts when the relevant project is completed?It sounds like we really need a Kickstarter clone around here!!
PM sent This thread is so bizarre, but I keep coming back to it to get the latest update on our Colorado protagonist.I really don't know what to make of it.  Overall, I tend to believe his story that he is homeless, without work and in dire straits.  There is no doubt he has made bad choice after bad choice ($600 knives?!, early fatherhood out of wedlock, hanging around with people of dubious character) yet blames society/environment when things go wrong.  He responds to many of the posts on here, but seems to ignore some of those that offer good, practical advice.   Here's one thing I would recommend for anyone who is homeless in Colorado in February: get to Arizona or California, someplace where you can sleep outside and not freeze to death.  I've heard Santa Monica is very tolerant of homelessness, the view is spectacular, and the temperature is moderate.Anybody got any hitchhiking advice for the US Southwest? That is a pretty optimistic statement.  Some would say pathologically optimisitic!I think gusti has identified one of the biggest threats to bitcoin.  GoogCoin, or maybe ZyngaCoin, as they already have tens of millions of customers who are doing micro-transactions everyday. If this actually worked, he could end up being some kind of cable news meme and pretty soon people all over the US would be offering their housesitting services to banks.This is a really interesting idea.  I noticed there was no response to it. Sorry caveden, I quoted the wrong post.  I meant to quote this one: I don't think FB Credits are a competitor to bitcoin outside of Facebook, but as a micropayment solution for virtual goods within Facebook obviously they are king.  And that is no small territory.  Zynga is a $5 billion company largely because of their social games within Facebook. So how do I contact you to engage your services?  PM doesn't seem to be working... Unfortunately 70% of the transactions of 600 million people will always be worth more than 100% of the transactions of zero people.Facebook has the advantage and they know it.That is a cool idea... Pretty clever plan if you ask me...http://inventorspot.com/articles/will_social_media_currency_replace_dollar_euro_or_yuan Really nice work!PM sent. Very cool, I like the affiliate program.  Should grow quickly with people sharing their affiliate link on social media.Nicely done. bitcoin tip jar, right here: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2877.0 This could be the killer app right here.  It could certainly garner a lot of media attention:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2877.0 This ROCKS.  Congratulations to whoever created this, fantastic job.The potential is huge.For example, I just created a "Junket" and sent the link down my Facebook newsfeed.How else could this be extended?  Could a WordPress plugin be developed so that every post on a blog automatically creates a Junket with donation potential?  How about for vBulletin posts, SMF posts and every other forum/social content software product?What about a Firefox and/or Chrome extension that could detect a YouTipIt URL in a video description on YouTube and let's you donate right on the spot?This is gold Jerry, GOLD! micropayment + for a virtual good + in a social gaming environment Done, thanks for the tip.  What a gorgeous site. If you're a design pro who can take some *blah* templates and make them stunning let me know.  I need 5+ designs that will work with StatusNet.Information on themeing StatusNet can be found here:http://status.net/wiki/Themeshttp://status.net/wiki/HOWTO_Make_a_ThemePM me or post here.  Some samples of past work would be a plus (doesn't have to be StatusNet related).Will pay in bitcoin or your favourite fiat paper currency. Anybody here familiar with StatusNet (the software that runs identi.ca)?I'm looking for a developer to make some modifications to my installation, and to the mobile apps that go with it.Nothing too crazy, probably very routine stuff for you php guys on here. Nicely laid out, I like the multi-lingual approach.  Thanks for building it. Are you being serious here or sarcastic? http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LO2eh6f5Go0 
When I first read the original post I thought "oh great, the primary reason I loved bitcoin is being undermined".  But the more I think about it the more I support the idea of timecoin.As a marketing exercise, timecoin makes sense for the reasons FreeMoney has already outlined.It will also make an excellent economics exercise.  People will be able to see quite obviously the benefits of a non-inflationary currency like bitcoin as their timecoins dwindle in value on the BTC/TMC exchange.So I'm in!  Let me know when/where I can download the timecoin client. This could be replicated using the Joomla VirtueMart/bitcoin plugin that Mike developed. They may consider it gambling, but if the real estate bubble and the tech bubble demonstrate anything, it is that the population has a propensity to participate in speculation.  I think it'll engage them. That's why I think speculation and a price bubble will be 'good' for bitcoin in that it will bring it a lot of publicity.  That should bring in people who will start trying to earn bitcoins, buy with bitcoins, etc. etc. Thinking of a variation on the early-mentioned bitcoin Easter Egg hunt...Is there some way to put BTC in a QR code so that the first person to scan the code gets the BTC?Might be a good publicity stunt to have an online easter egg hunt for a goodly sum of bitcoins, using some sort of 'clues' methodology that would appeal to people who would be our target audience (I'm thinking non-current bitcoin users).  Actually QR codes could be used to give clues and directions so the easter egg hunt could extend off-line as well.Sorry I'm mixing up two ideas in this post: QR codes and easter egg hunts.  But I think together they make a good promo idea. What do people think about exhibiting bitcoin at FreedomFest 2011 in Las Vegas in July?  Would that be a good venue to raise the profile of bitcoin?Exhibitor registration isn't cheap, but we could run a bounty to gauge support for this idea:http://www.freedomfest.com/exhibitorsinfo.htm I was liking your idea as I started reading it (though mentioning hoarding was probably an unfortunate diversion) and thought you were going to say the highest bidder received X% of the bitcoins, and the rest would be destroyed.  Instead all the bitcoins get destroyed, or rather, taken out of circulation because the HD is made into jewelry.  Am I understanding this correctly?Change it to winning straight bitcoin, with the rest being destroyed (and thus benefiting even the 'losers') and I'd be much more interested in participating. Sure, put me down for 20 BTC This script isn't exactly what you're looking for, but it is an interesting spin on it:http://www.guruscript.com/startups.phpBasically people with bitcoin business proposals would post them at the site, and everybody pledges funding and votes on which proposal they would like to see funded first.  The funding goes to the winner.Given that we are still a small community, this might be something to consider.  Instead of having 10 partially funded projects, at least one project would eventually get fully funded and launched.Sorry if this is a hijack of your thread.  I see from your posts on another forum that you're a PHP developer.This won't help you for tonight, obviously, but there are people on here willing to pay to get bitcoin-related projects done.  Look under Project Development or search on "bounty". This has been my experience as well, even with very technically savvy people and libertarians.  Posting about bitcoin on a conservative/libertarian forum was a real eye-opener for me, the response was so negative.  And so ill-informed.On the bright side it is not just bitcoin that suffers from this.  Anything that goes against received wisdom is going to face an uphill battle.  (note the response on another thread on this forum when I dared to question the supposedly innocuous nature of porn ).Anyway, I think the way around trying to convince the masses is to let the elites do it.  All we need to do is get one Zynga or one Flattr or one Disqus to adopt bitcoin in a micro-payment situation and the masses will adopt bitcoin because they need to buy a new virtual tractor for their farm.  They won't need to know the features and benefits of bitcoin, they'll just want what it can buy.  I see you're on Facebook.Open up your privacy settings so that we can all see your friends list.  That way we can tell if we have any common friends or connections and maybe we can ask somebody in the area to give you a couch.Did you get your cookware, computer and kitchen knives back from the landlord, or are they gone for good? I agree that for people who advocate welfare programs, or the 'dole', they and their beneficiaries will be threatened by bitcoin.  Anything that reduces the ability of the state to take from Peter in order to pay Paul will undermine their raison d'etre.I'm afraid if you're simultaneously looking to increase freedom (bitcoin) and expand the power of the state (social welfare), you're going to have to live with a lot of cognitive dissonance.Don't be put off by that though.  If you stick around here long enough you will be exposed to a lot of clear-thinking people and the cognitive dissonances will somehow dissolve.  I've learned some surprising things on this forum, beyond just the awesomeness of bitcoin. Give it a few years.Anyway, I imagine most alcoholics don't realize they have a problem until long after their friends and relatives realize it.Or maybe the fact that we spend so much time on this forum with a male:female ratio of 500:1 balances out what is happening to your brain when you visit those 'other' sites.  Wecome aboard!(Now somebody delete the rest of this thread FAST!) I'm sure all the sexual libertines on here are going to pound me for this but...Just because something should be allowed, doesn't mean it is helpful for you.  Poke around here for awhile and read about neuroplasticity and how porn affects your mind:http://www.yourbrainonporn.com Write to Ro Gupta their VP of Business Development and tell him that: biz@disqus.comHe is aware of bitcoin. Before I started this topic I realized that there would be gender disparity on a forum like this.  That isn't a surprising or thread-worthy topic.  I started this topic because it seemed there were ZERO women active on this forum which is really something incredible.Yes, I realize the forum software says we have a gender ratio of something like 4.7:1.0, but I believe that is because of all the spam accounts that have been created as 'female'.  Likewise, based on this map http://maps.google.com/maps?q=https://smsz.net/btcStats/bitcoin.kml the project is dominated by North Americans and Europeans.  Not surprising given that the project is generally discussed in English.  But how about the 90 million English-speakers in India?  Two clients in the whole country? Interesting idea fabian, thanks for putting it out there.So is this where we bid to be one of the judges?  If so, put me down for 10 BTC. I doubt this is about porn.  This is about control.  Porn is just the Trojan horse (no pun intended) to get this ball rolling.Next it will be wikileaks, then file sharing, then various 'intolerant' media, then Drudge, and pretty soon all we'll be able to access without asking permission is BBC, CBC and CNN.And somewhere between file sharing and Drudge they'll block bitcoin.org
+1Does anyone have a link to the interview that spawned this thread? Some dude in Nunavut.  Wow.  Great map, very interesting.  Thanks for putting this together. Whoa!  Taking the battle to the belly of the beast!Be sure to invite Ron Paul   If you're on LinkedIn and would like to promote bitcoin to your LinkedIn contacts, there is a group over there now:http://www.linkedin.com/groups?mostPopular=&gid=3721050 Hromisko, I think this is an interesting idea, especially the 'local' aspect of it.By being local they will more quickly be able to match buyers and sellers for face to face transactions.  Right now bitcoin is useful only on the internet because there are too few of us and we're spread all over the globe.  By focusing locally it could spur the development of bitcoin mobile apps, the use of QR, and the development of offline business accepting a bitcoin-like currency.Of course they won't be able to strictly limit the use of their currency to a designated geographic area, but practically speaking no one in Brazil will have a use for their currency if 90% of the accepting businesses are operating offline somewhere in central Europe.Please keep us up to date with this project, I will be interested in seeing how it turns out.We'll see how that works out with Chimerica.  Maybe, maybe not. +1And content I would want to buy. Yes I would like Tapatalk.Along with the oft-mentioned email notifications. The hardest part of making this work is getting the content providers to join.So you could save time building it by using Joomla + the Maian Media extension.Or you could just use this free script.Or you could use Joomla + Virtuemart since Mike G. has already built a bitcoin plugin for that. Building a plugin means having to convert every content provider that uses Disqus one at a time.  That would be plan B, I think.If we expose one of these comment providers (or both) to bitcoin and they choose to adopt it, that is a much bigger promotional boost for bitcoin than us simply building a plugin.The main goal, I think, is to gain exposure for bitcoin, not just to solve the technical problem with a plugin.I'm still hoping someone on here has a personal connection with somebody on http://disqus.com/about/, if not 1 degree of separation than 2 via a Facebook friendship. Most of you have probably come across Disqus (http://disqus.com/).  They provide commenting functionality for blogs, news sites etc. (see an example at the bottom of this article: http://techcrunch.com/2010/12/15/bing-everyscape-interior-views/)Sites use Disqus instead of their own native commenting system because users can sign in with their Disqus id, Facebook or Twitter.  Great!  So you get more comments on your blog post.  But how about monetizing that blog post?What if Disqus also had a bitcoin-powered tipping function built in?The neat-o factor here is if Disqus added the feature to their product, it would be immediately available on thousands of websites simultaneously.  Now, instead of developing a bitcoin tipping widget and converting website owners one at a time, all we need to do is convert one website: Disqus.  There is certainly something in it for Disqus: a new powerful feature for their clients, and maybe a commission on every transaction.If you think this is a good idea, take a look at this page and see if you know any of these individuals at Disqus.  If you don't know any of them, click on their profile.  Most of them also have a Facebook profile.  Go to their Facebook profile and see if you have any 'friends' in common with any of them:http://disqus.com/about/If nobody can make a connection, then I'll write something up and send it to their business email.  But I've found in the past that this approach doesn't bear much fruit. I like your style of putting it out there and seeing if it flies.  But to get around the TOS problem, and to showcase bitcoin technology rather than just the idea of sending a performer a donation, what about this twist on the original post:Instead of Chatroulette, the Firefox extension is built for YouTube.  Since there isn't a live performer on one end, the performer's bitcoin address is instead placed by them in the first line of the description that appears under the video.  The extension is able to identify this as a bitcoin address and presents the viewer with 3 options: 1 btc, 5 btc, or a text box for entering an amount with the rest of the functionality as outlined in the original post (minus the simultaneous translation feature).This gives us an actual 'product' to market to content developers and to tech media, rather than just having a method of sending donations via the bitcoin faucet.  I think it is a bit more intuitive to people/media who have never heard of bitcoin.I realize the idea is now closer to the Chrome extension that exists elsewhere, but by including mini-wallet functionality and designing it specifically for YouTube makes marketing the tool somewhat easier.From what I've read this doesn't violate YouTube's TOS. I would donate BTC to this.  Put me down for 50 if it happens And we just got a short blurb on the EFF blog:http://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2010/12/constructive-direct-action-against-censorship This might be something mtgox.com could apply for though. Noagenda, don't build it from scratch.  There is a good CR clone out there: http://www.chatroulette-clone.com/.  Reading the comments Ron Paul is getting a lot more mileage out of this than is bitcoin.Seems the 'news for nerds' means political nerds. I'm liking this idea... I've started a related thread under Project Development here: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2229.0 There'll be some of that, but right now they're doing it for free.I think it will be slightly amazing what could happen if monetization were possibly.  I'm constantly amazed at the human talent on display at YouTube.  I think some of that talent could make an appearance on CR if they thought they could make money from it. So tell me if this isn't even technically possible.  If it is, I'll likely start a bounty.Overview: a browser extension that allows users to exchange bitcoins on ChatRoulette, and also translates ChatRoulette typed conversations, probably using the Google Translate API.Specifics: When user A, who has the extension installed connects to user B, who also has the extension installed, the extension displays  i)a text field to enter a gratuity amount, ii) a Send button for the text field, iii) a button with a preset tip amount determined by the other person (1-step tipping).Nobody needs to see bitcoin addresses displayed, this is invisible to the user.The extension acts as a mini-wallet.The user can deposit bitcoins from their client, MTGox account or wherever.  The extension stores coins, sends from it's own stash, and receives into it's own stash.The user can withdraw bitcoins from the extension.As a bonus feature, and to get ChatRoulette users interested in the extension, it should provide on-the-fly translation of text being received in the chat window.  This feature should function whether both chatters have the extension installed or not.Finally, and I'm still not sure about this one, the extension should have an address to which it sends a commission off each transaction.  The commission rate and destination would be determined by moi and may serve to fund future bitcoin projects.  I'm not exactly sure what he's saying, but it sounds like something I've heard from people who don't have a firm grasp on the concept of personal responsibility.I think he is saying that someone could easily 'manipulate the market' for bitcoin. The implication being that you will 'overpay' or be 'under compensated' when you buy or sell your bitcoins.  This of course assumes that someone is holding a gun to your head and forcing you to buy/sell.It's a worse case of the type of thinking that says insider trading must be banned to 'level the playing field', as if we were all in some sort of race when we buy or sell stocks.  Of course this type of state intervention leads to more imperfect information in the market and the jailing of people for what is probably the most victimless crime possible.  For not only is their arguably no victim, the rest of society actually benefits when an insider trade takes place as the insider is freely offering information into the system.Sorry for the tirade, but I just listened to CBC News this afternoon and they were even more appalling than usual so I'm a bit worked up.
I hope to have something done for vBulletin by the end of the year.  But not SMF. I doubt Wikileaks is even thinking about bitcoin.  Money isn't Wikileaks big problem at the moment.  I would imagine there is at least one multi-millionaire out there who thinks Assange is a hero and could bankroll the whole operation without batting an eye.  The entire bitcoin economy is a drop in the bucket.Likewise, if guilt by association is a possibility when it comes to Wikileaks, then Twitter is toast way before bitcoin.I think we're over-reacting a bit.  The publicity will do bitcoin good.   I think this must be the highest Alexa ranking site yet to cite bitcoin.BTW you have a pm. Just landed at pcworld.com: http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/213230/could_the_wikileaks_scandal_lead_to_new_virtual_currency.html That's because most banks don't have your money.  They've gone and given it to some fellow with no job and a new semi in Riverside. Interesting question.  Excuse me while I just....be back.... in a .... sec.....There. Yes, what is the possibility of a bank run, please? ChatRoulette doesn't have profiles as it is anonymous.  Which makes bitcoin such a suitable match.  Perhaps some sort of browser extension could handle the needed technology, but ideally it would be built in to ChatRoulette itself so that it received wide exposure.I think the founder and investors have been having a difficult time monetizing ChatRoulette... here is a solution for them. I realize ChatRoulette hasn't met the expectations it was generating in the winter of 2010, but it is still a top 10,000 website.  I think bitcoin would be a good fit for ChatRoulette: it allows 'viewers' to reward 'performers' anonymously (I'm thinking card tricks and piano improv here, not what you guys are thinking).Andrey Ternovskiy could skim his percentage from each transaction and finally have a way of monetizing his monster. I like your suggestion Madhatter but would make one change.  Instead of keeping the fee if the bitcoins are unclaimed, they keep the fee only if the bitcoins are delivered.  That puts the incentive in the right place.Having said that, I sent two bitcoinmails last night about midnight, and by 9 am this morning one had already been claimed.  A somewhat famous Canadian political discussion forum that had a run-in with the Canadian 'human rights' commission.The other donation was to Matt Drudge.  That's like playing the Powerball.  About 0.001% chance it will work, but if it does... watch out! This is a good idea.  I'm going to start spreading the bitcoin love now.I tried it with both MTGox and bitcoinmail and I like the email presentation of bitcoinmail better. Facebook's new Places application promises to be a great way to get deals:I walk into Domino's Pizza, Places sends me a coupon for $5 off if I spend $20 or whatever.What will be even better is when I walk into Pizza Pizza and Places sends me a coupon for $5 off if I walk across the street to Dominio's.So why isn't there an equivalent app on the web?  Right now I'm doing my Christmas shopping on Amazon (going through one of our local Bitcoin cash-back Amazon affiliates, of course) and I'm wondering why Borders isn't sending my a virtual coupon on my screen when they see me searching on Mark Steyn's Lights Out: Islam, Free Speech And The Twilight Of The West.Well I'm not really wondering of course, because Borders doesn't know I'm on the Amazon website right now.So does anyone know of an app or browser extension that would allow the above scenario to happen? Not hard now, just use your credit card here: https://www.bitcoingateway.com/ See, they're so scarce I didn't even know what to call them. Just curious.  Are there any women on this forum?Are female anarcho-capitalist geeks that scarce? I actually received a reply back from the developers of embedplus.com.  Any thoughts on how I should respond? +1 I love this idea.  Kickstarter for bitcoin with the possibility of payback. The beauty of bitcoin is even if a particular venture within bitcoin (a store, exchange, application) isn't profitable in itself, it is still beneficial to do things that support the growth of the bitcoin economy because the value of your bitcoin holdings will increase.It may be worth it for an investor to spend $10 million just on spreading the word about bitcoin because his holdings of bitcoin will appreciate so much as it becomes widely adopted.A thousand-fold increase in the value of bitcoins from here isn't hard to foresee.  $4 billion in valuation is still a drop in the bucket of the internet economy. I think your idea is better than an autoresponse because if the person sending you the email (and the bitcoin) is a friend that you want to hear from, then you can refund the bitcoin.  If it is a spammer or a stalker, you've just earned the bitcoin.Yes, bitcoin adoption is a barrier, but on the other hand this could be the application that spurs mainstream adoption of bitcoin.  It's no longer bitcoin the P2P cryptocurrency, it's now "Bitcoin: spam-free email" (or "Bitcoin! Get paid to read email!").So should it be an add-on for Outlook, or a standalone bitcoin email client? I've never been involved with a community before quite like bitcoin.org.  It is fascinating for me to see the bitcoin ecosystem evolve and grow.  Everyday members are bringing up ideas to grow bitcoin, or sites and products are being developed around bitcoin in a very organic way.But what if you suddenly had the option of doing it differently?  What if you were chosen to head up the development and roll out of the bitcoin 'product' by some venture capitalists who were going to give you $10,000,000 to accomplish the launch?How would you do it?  What would be the steps you would take to move bitcoin from where it is to being where you want it to go? Here is the discussion:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1411.0And here is the extension:https://chrome.google.com/extensions/detail/hhbhfoohbnjkdcndbhjlicijccioklea
yes, that would work.I guess it would be slicker if it acted like a mini-wallet, like the Chrome extension developed by somebody on here, so that the user didn't have to leave the page. This story at Social Times talks about a firm that has created advanced tools for YouTube video playback:http://www.socialtimes.com/2010/12/embedplus-youtube-embeds/They allow you to embed a bunch of features like slow-mo, zoom, chapters etc.  If they would add a bitcoin tip jar feature so that content producers could more easily monetize their videos... I was thinking about what got me initially excited about bitcoin back when I read the article in Eliott Wave Theorist. I think it was Bitcoin, the non-inflationary currency!.  And then when I delved deeper into it, I got excited about Bitcoin, the micro-payment solution! Is this being built off an already available platform like openx or Oasis, or is this a 'from scratch' proposition? hummmmm, methinks this is one party that guests may want to arrive at early... In Canada the employment insurance scheme is quite distinct from welfare programs.  Employees and employers pay premiums into a fund which is used to pay for the benefits.  Welfare comes out of general revenues.If I recall correctly, EI in Canada actually subsidizes general spending because the premiums are too high.How would you say things are setup in your country? I think the core of the problem isn't religion at all.  The core of the problem is the west is ruled by a bunch of pansy-assed multi-cult secularists who think every culture is morally equal and so they have no basis in their worldview to criticize Islam (Berlusconi being the exception: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/1565664.stm).  If they had a Christian or Jewish worldview, they would have basis on which to criticize Islam.Religion that extends only to the 'spiritual' parts of life (whatever that means) isn't religion at all, but a hobby.  For example, St. James says part of 'true religion' to to care for widows and orphans in their distress.If we start saying 'religious freedom' only extends as far as the walls of the church/synagogue/whatever, that's no freedom at all.There is this idea floating around that religion has been the cause of most of the wars in history.  While religion has certainly been the pretense for a lot of war, in the 20th century not even that has been true.  By far the bulk of death in human history has been the result of atheistic communism.  Pagan fascism would be up there too.  The clear connection between these two philosophies is their overweening statism.Even wars that could be reasonably linked to religion generally aren't fought by priests and nuns, they are fought by governments.  Reduce the role of government, reduce the likelihood of war. Is it just me or does anyone else think that Wikileaks isn't making the U.S. look so bad.Nothing I've read so far has been earth-shattering news.  In fact everything seems to confirm all the stereotypes the world has been operating under for quite some time:-Arab countries are afraid of Iran getting the bomb-Canada has an inferiority complex-Berlusconi may be lining his own pocket-Putin is an 'alpha male'-one of the Royals behaved rudely-there is a lot of corruption in the Afghan government-the Pope is CatholicThe most startling thing to me is that the US gov't is acting so consistently in public and in private.  Sure, the private speech isn't so polite but they're basically saying the same thing in private as in public.The one thing I thought was a revelation is that the Chinese could be willing to live with a united Korea.  And that just shows the Chinese as more benign than we thought they were.Oh, the other big surprise was that the most powerful country on the planet can't keep track of its filing system. Someone could message everybody who has posted a comment (currently 3000+) making them aware of bitcoin.O.k, who wants to risk losing their Facebook account because of spamming?   Yeah, I really don't see the advantage of bitcoin over cash for in-person transactions.  I think the killer app is somehow micro-payment related. So Flanagan expressed regret over his remarks (http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/politics/ottawa-notebook/ex-harper-adviser-regrets-glib-call-for-retaliatory-wikileaks-assassination/article1820612/comments/), finally.But now Assange is saying Flanagan should be charged for incitement to commit murder.So now is Assange against Flanagan exercising free speech?  What is the libertarian doctrine on this question? Huh?  If by free you mean 'no cost', it is free I just installed it.  If you mean some particular flavour of open source code, I can't help there. This is very cool.  Just downloaded it.However noagenda your French is even worse than you thought... that's Italian. Maybe you could post the invite to the bitcoin forum you created and we can test it out with you. Try spending the day with a one-year old.  That might change your mind.  How long does it take to restore a backup on another SMF install?  Can't be that big a job, and Bruce Wagner has setup an SMF board over at his site already. gavin, at least some of the functionality you're looking for is already available for most major forum packages.For vBulletin there is the vBCredits mod.  I was trying to achieve some of this functionality, using BTC as the in-forum currency, with this bounty:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1798.0That is currently on hold though as a new vB mod with much of what I requested above is in the works and due for release in the coming weeks.I imagine SMF has something, though it may not be as developed as for vB.  This could be the basis of what you want: http://custom.simplemachines.org/mods/index.php?mod=65, but if you search you'll probably find something even closer. I'd prefer the mirror approach too, rather than starting from scratch with something like usenet.  Just so that discussions can be picked up where they were left off.Even a once daily backup wouldn't be too onerous, would it? Now we're getting somewhere!breandan81, yes there is a sale on bitcoin at MTGox.  That might be an early Christmas present.  However if I buy some it is sure to go down some more.  Nobody said anything about stopping sex.  We're talking about porn.Anyway, I think the thing that really grates on my nerves is this idea that the "American Way" is somehow inferior to, what, the European way?I'm sure lots of people on here don't like the Tea Party, but the Tea Party movement is an outworking of the uniqueness of America.  Yes, the USA has some big problems and is headed in a fascist direction.  But where else in the world do you get thousands of people protesting for government to stop giving them freebies?  Where else do people demand their government spend less?Porn, guns, Tea Party, freedom, self-reliance, state paternalism.  These things are all tied together.Anyway, get back to work. If gun ownership led to bank robbery Switzerland would be in a state of siege.(Sorry about my participation in this thread hi-jacking, breandan.  Just advertising the benefits of gun ownership for ya!)
That's one view.My view is porn is more dangerous than firearms.  Firearms can destroy the body, porn can destroy the soul.  Firearms can keep government in check.  Porn can keep the populace subdued and compliant. Couldn't they mine World of Warcraft gold or something and sell it for bitcoin?I may be really off base here.  I don't play WoW or any other type of those games, but I did hear there was a market in WoW gold where first-worlders pay third-worlders to generate gold. Nah, price dropped because I bought a bunch the other day.  Happens with just about everything I buy.Maybe I should post my trades so you guys can make a bundle short selling. Here's some mainstream coverage of bitcoin:http://www.irishtimes.com/newspaper/finance/2010/1126/1224284180416.html No I didn't ignore this thread. I can no more ignore a thread automatically than I can subscribe to one on this forum.  Argh.Payment has been sent. How does that happen?  (I'm a Canadian, so I have very little understanding of your loan guarantors.  Maybe the problem down there is you make them sound so benign: "Fannie Mae", "Freddie Mac", "Sallie Mae".  It sounds like a contingent of cousins from across town). Skiing meetup, now you're talking.  I'd consider coming from Canada for that.Or maybe at the historic Grand Prix in Monaco in 2012.... two reasons to meetup is better than one! When did that launch?  That's great we finally have a credit card solution. I wouldn't necessarily limit to certain types of sites based on keywords.  If the ad space is free anywhere, why not grab it? Okay I've edited mine, now you have to edit yours! Man, you've been busy makin' stuff.  Thanks!Here's a list of the big oc cms'.  Though it's not shopping cart specific most of these would still have a use for bitcoin integration:http://www.scribd.com/doc/23880441/2009-Open-Source-CMS-Market-Share-Report-ExcerptAnd here's a list of some of the os commerce biggies:http://php.opensourcecms.com/scripts/show.php?catid=3&category=eCommerce I read the article by Elliott Prechter in the September Elliott Wave Theorist.  I think the biggest attraction was it's non-inflationary nature, followed by the potential for micro-payments.I'm also concerned about government banning it.  Possibly one way to fly under the radar of government long enough to get established in the mainstream and thus make it politically expensive for government to intervene is to blah blah blah, blah blah, blah blah. Put me down for 15 BTC as well. Wow am I an idiot.  I utter the above yesterday, and today things are going so slowly I was beginning to wonder if I had botched up my client or wallet somehow.What the heck is going on? I haven't installed it yet but just wanted to say 'thanks'.  This is a fantastic extension for Joomla, and for bitcoin.  Great idea, thank you for doing it. I've looked into setting up a getafreelancer type site, but what about this as an alternative: a forum devoted to bitcoin projects divided into the following categories.1) Projects with a bounty -each project would get it's own sub-forum2) Projects for hire -each project gets it's own sub-forum3) Collaborative projects (no money changing hands here) -each project gets it's own sub-forumThat way all the bitcoin projects that are available can be tracked in one place, and each can have multiple discussion threads for different aspects of a given project.If a few of you think it's a good idea post here and I'll set it up.  For me most transactions have been almost instantaneous.I'm no developer though, they may be able to indicate occasions where it won't be so fast. Privately created credit is imploding faster than publicly created currency is being printed.  The money supply is shrinking.Plus, the Europeans have possibly botched things up worse than the Americans.  You don't have to be good for your currency to appreciate, you just have to be less incompetent. This discussion has got me all shook up about getting involuntarily relieved of my bitcoins.I've got my wallet.dat backed up and stored away.  What else should I do?  Do I need to remove the client and wallet files from my (XP) machine?  Is that even possible without a full wipe of the HD? Well the first thing I learned from that article is that electricity is much cheaper in Ontario than the US.  I just checked my bill and I paid $0.065/kWh last month.  At least there is something that is cheaper in this country.Other than that, I was left with some questions.He says "we have a currency that will devalue itself almost as easily as the Zimbabwean dollar", right after noting that the ultimate quantity of BTC is fixed.  Not sure how he arrived at that conclusion.The author also says the 'artificial' creation of bitcoins is 'madness'.  As if boring a hole 3 miles underground at the risk of losing your life to haul out some yellow metal is not madness.  He seems to simply want bitcoins created and then disbursed arbitrarily by the creator somehow.Sounds a lot like the fiat money system we have now.
Well it's not the 'killer app', but I think this is an idea that might fly on kickerstarter:A microstock photo exchange site where users pay in bitcoin.  Let's call it BitPics for short.Currently, stock photo sites charge between 40% and 80% (!) of selling price for photographers to list their photos for sale.  I don't know why the commissions are so large, but it sure seems like a market niche ripe for some efficiencies.  I would speculate that their two largest costs are bandwidth (shuffling 3 Mb photos up and down the pipe all day) and transaction fees to PayPal.BitPics would reduce these costs in two ways: use bitcoin for transactions, and instead of hosting the photos locally, the exchange would only serve to display the photos.  The photographer would have to find his own host (ex: OpenDrive).Assuming my speculations are reasonable, these reduced costs might allow BitPics to charge only 5% exchange fees.  Any profits could be returned to the participants as if they were part of a co-operative.Such a site shouldn't need $200,000 for the technical requirements.  I'm going to take a wild guess and throw out $10,000 for that, if it's based on open source stuff already on the market.  Add another $30,000 for promotion and marketing to spread the word in the right communities and maybe it would fly. No interest here or over at vbulletin.orgWhat am I doing wrong?  Not enough money?  Bad idea?  PM sent... Yes please, when can I sign up? Exactly.  And the sooner the better.  The teacher's unions will go ballastic of course, but probably not that many voters care what the educrats think anymore. There is a discussion on that idea here Bruce:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1065.msg13159#msg13159I think the most interesting part of that article is where it says they raised $200,000 at kickstarter.comWow, the various bitcoin promotion ideas floating around on this forum could sure benefit from a cash infusion.  Has anyone here ever used kickstarter.com to raise money for a venture? Yes, I wondered about OSQA, but really I think it is more important to get something built that can plug into a very popular system (vBulletin) than just to have a running example of a bitcoin-funded Q&A site.But if anyone has a proposal along those lines I am listening... bitcoinmarket.com + PayPal.  General registration is closed but he is letting in established forum members. Okay here it is:Customization of vBCredits II Deluxe mod for vBulletinThis needs to be compatible with vBulletin 3.8 and vBulletin 4I need a credits system that can do the following:-enhance vBulletin to work like a pay-per-answer site. User posts a question, other users post answers and indicate what price the questioner (or any other user) must pay to see the answer.-similarly, a user can post an article, which can only be revealed by paying price set by the poster-users can subscribe to access a thread by paying on an ad hoc basis, or by automatic weekly/monthly/annual subscription charge-users can donate/tip a poster-users can donate to the site-users can display how much they've earned/spent if they wish-all transactions must be accounted for in some kind of log-admin can charge to have users post in a particular thread-users must be able to pay for their in-forum currencies in bitcoin from their bitcoin client or online bitcoin account-users must be able to cash out their earnings into their bitcoin client or online bitcoin account-admin should be able to have a commission, optionally set by flat fee or percentage, diverted to a second bitcoin account.  The commission rate can be set differently for each of the payment actions aboveAfter a quick review of some of the mods currently available for vBulletin it seems that modifying vBCredits II Deluxe would be the easiest way to achieve the above, as it comes with an API. I really don't know though, as I'm no developer.  As well, vBCredits includes a lot of useful functionality that could benefit from bitcoinization.If this project interests you please PM me or post here. I'll start by saying $350 but if I'm underpricing this feel free to let me know. What I've done is gone and posted it over here, in case it's not appropriate to start this type of discussion on this forum:http://www.vbulletin.org/forum/showthread.php?p=2122230#post2122230 Is it appropriate to solicit for a developer for a bitcoin-related project on the forum?If it is, is this the category to do it in? Are bank transfers quicker/cheaper/easier if they are within the same country?For example, if MTGox had a trusted contact in several different countries through whom users could flow bank transfers would that be a satisfactory solution? Here's an idea to get some exposure: Matt Drudge has a form on drudgereport.com where you can submit news tips.  I submitted that I wished he accepted bitcoin donations so that I could thank him for the work he does.I think a nice Donate Bitcoin gif on drudgereport would be a nice attention getter!Drop Drudge a note as well if you agree. 70% of something is still more than 100% of nothing.Zynga is a $5 billion company, all because of 3 years on Facebook.Remember "My Aquarium" way back in 2007?  The developer of that was making $3,000/day selling virtual fish.  It's fine not to like Facebook, but it is where the micropayment action is. You are correct, I have this wrong.  At least for Kachingle, the payout calculation includes the number of times I visit that site in a month.  However it does work in perpetuity.  So if I don't visit the site next month, but visit the month thereafter, they will receive a payment unless I turn off the Kachingle.Yes, you have to setup a monthly withdrawl from your PayPal, whether or not you use it.  This would be a bit of an obstacle for some people I think.The "transaction cost" includes the human burden of remembering and typing a password. That seems to be enough to stop micropayments being used by most people.[/quote]I think we're talking about developing a system that would have a central website storing some of your bitcoins, which you would then dispense to content providers.  Presumably this wouldn't require any greater login credentials than Flattr and Kachingle.It only works well if you want to allocate your donations based on a metric setup by Flattr or Kachingle.  If you feel one content provider deserves more than another, I'm not sure if they can accomodate that. Actually I thought that was the big DISadvantage of Flattr/Kachingle et. al.Let's say I'm at a blogger site and happen to really like his most recent blog entry.  I might want to tip him 0.05 BTC.  That doesn't mean I want to tip him 0.05 every month.  Maybe I'll never come back to that website again.  I don't want to make a lifetime commitment, just say 'thanks' once.A bitcoin-based system could also be used to unlock content.  Maybe I'm trying to find a solution to a problem I'm having with my car.  The answer is in some automotive forum where general discussion is free, but specific solutions are in a locked topic that can only be opened by a one-time 'donation' of 0.10 BTC.The big advantage of a bitcoin-based system would be the ability to do ad hoc donations with minimal transaction cost.  That is a significant competitve advantage for bitcoin.  As far as I can tell, nobody is doing that currently. I had the same problem with a phpBB forum I run, until I added a custom field to the registration form.  That appears to have completely solved the problem.If you want some more forum help just PM me. That's funny because I would have used the same analogy, but in reverse.  (You must find it confusing that most creationists in North America are free enterprisers, while all communists are evolutionists by definition ).It's easy to complain about 'the people' not understanding economics.  But what is really appalling is that most of the economic and political establishment also don't understand economics.  Hence our current situation, and hence the reason a mere 20 years after the reunification of Germany - a 40 year side by side experiment of communism versus partial free enterprise- we still see political leaders that actually think they can plan our way to prosperity. Well I know personally I'm spending too much time on here lately and not getting enough work done!     Well the technology is in place, now we just need the marketing!I might setup a bounty for a vBulletin mod.  I'll think about the specs this weekend. I don't think they force small developers, but I think they may be forcing big developers like Zynga.I guess the reason a developer would cave to Facebook's demand of 30% is to gain access to a market of more than 500 million people.Facebook is quickly becoming the de facto internet for some segments of society.  I just read how teen girls spend more time on Facebook than on the rest of the web combined.
Yes, I agree this is the 'killer app' for bitcoin.  In fact I emailed Kachingle about it weeks ago and received no response.Kachingle, Flattr, Rewrd, all of them are doing the same thing (dividing up a predetermined monthly donation).  None of them offer the flexibility of bitcoin.A html widget that can be pasted anywhere, and modules for Wordpress, Joomla, Drupal, and bitcoin modules that work like points/thank you modules for vBulleting, SMF and other forum systems are products that leverage bitcoins micropayment advantage over all other popular accepted methods.I feel bitcoins big advantage in the marketplace isn't the anonymity as much as its miniscule transaction costs.  Building on that is the possible path to widespread, mainstream use.Unfortunately I don't have the skills to build any of this stuff.   An interesting article that talks about Facebook's domination over it's app developers and how it is expected they will go from zero to $1 billion in the next 6 months.  All while taking a 30% cut.Zynga is already doing $1 million/day in virtual currency transactions.http://www.wired.com/epicenter/2010/09/facebooks-virtual-currency-takeover-hints-at-micro-payment-battle/ Wow, that was one incoherent article.  Either Time is getting desperate for readership and will print any scandalous story to bring people in, or the lamestream media is in panic mode trying to derail the Tea Party express.Anywhere in the history of the planet has hyperinflation ever been created by the lowering of taxes?I do find it curious though that almost everybody is worried about hyperinflation.  Why are all the economists, analysts and pundits (including Tea Partiers and Ron Paul, whom I otherwise respect) saying hyperinflation is just around the corner?  The only guy I know of who thinks the real threat is deflation is Robert Prechter, and I tend to agree with him.Credit and assets are being destroyed much, much faster than the Fed is 'printing' money.  Therefore the money supply has contracted dramatically over the last couple years, and is likely to continue doing so. Or if everyone on the forum because a bitcoin retailer for face-to-face transactions in their city, that might help too. Some thoughts and questions:Was the e-gold guy buying/selling e-gold, or was he just matchmaking?I believe MTGox doesn't buy and sell bitcoins.  He just matches buyers and sellers.Does anyone know if that is a relevant distinction?What if MTGox franchised his exchange so that we could have an MTGox located in each country, making it easier to get money in and out by direct bank withdrawl?I have thought that requiring Facebook login would be one way to cut down on fraud.  By using various Facebook facts about people you could make it more difficult for scammers:   -require a person have X number of Facebook friends  -require a person be referred by a Facebook friend who the exchange has already dealt with  -require a person to have been on Facebook for X number of weeks/months  -require a potential client to 'befriend' the exchange operator, who can then examine their Facebook profile for real-life activity in the newsfeed, photo gallery, etc.Not a perfect solution, but might help. Tell the TSA what to do with their airport scanners:http://www.prisonplanet.com/drudge-stirs-national-debate-on-tsa-abuse.htmlAnd spread the word by joining and sharing here:http://www.facebook.com/optoutday?v=wall Okay Macho, help me understand more clearly what you are saying.Are you saying that you believe speculation and sweatshops etc. are 'morally wrong', and you are spreading your viewpoint that they are morally wrong and that is all?  Are you saying that you would never support governmental prohibitions on these activities, just moral suasion?  Are you saying you would actually oppose a government who attempted to ban speculation?If that is what you are saying, then I apologize for my early posts linking you to those tyrannizing moralizers of the 20th century, Communism and Fascism.I fully support your right to free speech, including the right to persuade others of one's opinions, no matter how wrong-headed those opinions are.  If, however you do support the use of force (ie: the state) to impose your 'morality' on others, then we're back to square one. Look, if person A freely sells his Bitcoin to person B, and the value of Bitcoin subsequently skyrockets, person A did not get screwed.If person A buys Bitcoin from person B, and the value of Bitcoin subsequently drops in half, B did not screw A. You cannot decide what the value of something is.  "Stuff" is not necessarily better than speculation.  Does the world really need more SUVs?  More television sets?  More designer clothes?If I get a rush out of playing the stock market, who are you to say that is not worth as much as a new pair of shoes?  There's a good argument to be made that more stuff on this planet would be immoral.  Yet that is what you are advocating.  More immoral stuff.  Shame on you. I can't believe I'm responding to this, but the compulsion to say something is just so strong.  Must be ocd.Slavery has nothing to do with capitalism.  You do understand that capitalism is about the free dealing of free people, right?  Slavery is where one person imposes their will on another in a coercive manner.  Again, do you not realize that releasing toxic waste into a river amounts to a subsidy?  This is not a free market action.  This is the action of someone imposing their will on another person's property.  This is the action of a fascist.Again, burning down another person's property... oh why bother.In each of your examples, the perpetrator (slave owner, subsidy-seeking waste dumper, mafioso) exemplifies the behaviour you are advocating.  The imposition of one person's will on another person involuntarily.  This is why your posts are so provocative. You seem to be unable to differentiate between Fascist corporatism and capitalism.  Please see the Google monster for in-depth help with this.  Apparently if people starve and die because some unspanked trust-fund pseudo-intellectual in a university comes up with a theory of how the world should work, that's A-o.k.Well here is the heart of the matter.  You think the dichotomy is false.  The dichotomy isn't false, it is real.  You can have an economy of free people taking responsibility for their lives and their decisions and freely choosing to trade or not trade with one another.  Or you can have some self-righteous social planner make decisions for people  Those are your choices.  Everything else is a variation on one of those two options.  I know which option I choose, the one that is not responsible for the death of 100 million* people in the last century.  *http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Black_Book_of_Communism Macho, did you read anything noagendamarket said?Honestly, your comments are so surreal in this day and age I'm beginning to think you're putting us on.   Macho, you are absolutely out of control.  Your posts are the most dangerous things I have read on this forum.This type of thinking, the idea that one can somehow 'know better' than the market, that one can somehow decide that speculators and financiers are immoral, that capitalism causes famine, this is the type of thinking that dominated the two greatest IMMORALITIES of the 20th century.  Communism and fascism.  I am appalled that this type of shallow thinking persists after all the world has learned.  Why does humanity have to be taught the same lessons over and over and over again!?You talk about speculators driving up the cost of food.  What about all the farmers turning their corn into ethanol because some do-gooder much like yourself named Al Gore is imposing his 'morality' on the world, saying we need to 'get off oil'.  You think maybe that had something to do with the price of food?Why don't you explain how it is that people starve in communist/state-directed economies all the time, but I have yet to hear of a famine in Switzerland, A COUNTRY COVERED IN SNOW HALF THE YEAR AND MOUNTAINS ALL OF THE YEAR.Please tell us how speculation-free North Korea is such a bounteous land of plenty.Explain how Cuba, not in any way subject to the whims of Wall St. bankers, exports desperate people clinging to planks of wood dying to reach oppressive Florida.Remind us how those great instruments of state beneficence Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac set about to guarantee the mortgages of people who never should have had them guaranteed.  Tell us how that elitist plan turned out.After the lessons of the 20th century, anybody who has the gall to think he knows better than the millions of decision-makers who make up the market really needs a humility transplant.__________________Getting back to the original post of this thread, I think that bit of speculative fever and some bubble action might be good for bitcoin in this way: it will bring a lot of attention and coverage that it wouldn't get otherwise.  That could very well expose bitcoin to some people who see it's practical benefits and will adopt it on that basis. Nevermind, it's working now.I don't blame him for taking a fee.  It's well worth it. When I try to withdraw it says this:Even though I'm withdrawing much less than $1000. Oh great, now I'm going to have to pan for gold in the sewer system.In any event, I don't think the USD is going to collapse any time shortly.  They aren't printing it fast enough to keep up with the crash in privately-issued credit, are they? Bitcoinmarket is not accepting new registrations. I obviously haven't been paying attention to the MTGox situation because I didn't realize it was so hard to get USD into and out of the system.  I had joined before the MTGox stopped accepting PayPal so I was already in the bitcoin economy.So this thread prompted me to check things out.This morning I setup a Liberty Reserve account to withdraw some USD from my MTGox account.  After setting up my LR account I went to MTGox to make a withdrawl and got this message:Is this just a periodic thing, or have others experienced this frequently? Actually depositors do have control over things.  They have control over which bank they put their money into.  And if they didn't have the feeling of security that a government guarantee gives them, depositors would carefully evaluate the solvency of a bank before they put there money there.A lot of people like to blame Wall St. fat cats for the recent financial debacle and they certainly should bear part of the blame, but government deposit guarantees and mortgage guarantees had the effect of separating beneficiaries (depositors and lenders) from risk & responsibility.  Whenever you do that, disaster is sure to follow. Hummm, if this actually caught on wouldn't the smart money withdraw on December 6?I see the Facebook events have been cancelled in two countries already... Looks like you're already generating some talk over there.
I hope it wasn't too much.The recent price action has certainly been wild. BTC at $0.50.  Looks like we might be having our first short squeeze in history.  4.5 million BTC in circulation x $0.2899 USD (last trade on MTGox) = $1,304,550 USD. I've just paid my portion of the bounty 50 BTC, please mark me off.I would have paid earlier but because this forum has no working subscription function it's a little tricky to keep track of all the threads I'm watching.  I wish the admins would do something about this. Excellent!Yeah, that's one reason why they have more credibility over there than some places.  I'm sure it will be worth the wait. I think the largest is ForexFactory.com, and another I've used is babypips.comGreat analysis today btw.  The question on my mind is, where is all the buying coming from?   S3052, is there a forex discussion forum that you frequent?  Why not also offer your BTC/USD pronostications on a forex forum, so that it provides exposure to bitcoin to people who might find it interesting from a speculative angle?If you do this, be sure to tell us where you are so we can sign up and follow the discussion there as well. Wow, we hit $0.19 today!The question though is this from money that was already in accounts before the PayPal debacle, or is there still new money flowing into MTGox? Has anyone heard back from Currencyfair on their evaluation of bitcoin? There is a bitcoin public relations coup in there somewhere.  If we can figure out how to leverage it....Maybe on bourque.com or nationalnewswatch.com... thinking, thinking.... wow, Canadian Tire money at the same rate as the Loonie!  Now that is a sweet deal.  Now to scour kijiji for Cdn Tire money at a discount.Here's a tongue-in-check article on the Cdn Tire money economy: http://www.badeconomy.ca/corporate/277-canadian-tire-money-may-collapse-soon I think they're actually called Facebook Credits and that is an interesting question... Sandos, see the very first post in this thread for an outline of the advantages of bitcoin to Facebook developers. If we could figure out a way to setup an exchange where people could sell their Canadian Tire money for bitcoins, that would:1) probably be a news story in Canada2) give bitcoin credibility with millions of CanadiansNow if we could figure out a way to get Tim Hortons to accept bitcoin!Actually, expanding on the first idea.If there are any loyalty/affinity programs (airline points, hotel points) that allow users to transfer their points online to other users, that might be a good place to implement bitcoin as a payment solution.  Likewise if there are any social games/online games that allow the transfer or points/gold/virtual currency... LOL eBay accepts Canadian Tire money?  Well, it is the second national currency of Canada, and has a more solid backing than most of the fiat currencies around! That is intriguing.Are there any eBay sellers on here with the experience to tell us if eBay would allow it?  If it is a legit option, I'll start a bounty with 100BTC for a developer to take this on in the next couple of weeks. Here's an outline of the (huge) size of gaming on Facebook:http://www.socialtimes.com/2010/10/facebook-gamers-hours-per-month/ Put me down for 50BTC.This is a good idea.  Maybe I need to do a bounty for my Facebook developer store plug-in idea. thanks for the encouragement jgarzik.  If we started something on github, would you be willing/able to participate? Hummm, interesting posts in the liqpay forum.Also, their tagline is quite curious: "The most simple payments".  Is that intentional?
Are Kir and I the only ones who believe in the utility of BTC for Facebook apps?  Nobody else want to jump in here? Just having the exposure on their site will be almost as beneficial as the ability to trade currencies. This is a real pain.  How can we get this rectified?I emailed one of the admins but no response. And I'm a member.Perhaps a link will bring more people over: http://fivegrinder.com/group/Bitcoin%20Mutual%20Aid%20Association#main Oh that is really excellent.  What a terrific site they've got.  I emailed them re: bitcoin as well.   S3052, I think your idea is exactly what is needed, within certain boundaries.There are a lot of good ideas generated on the forum about how to drive bitcoin forward, but nothing gets done because...1) the suggester doesn't have the technical skills to execute2) the idea requires several people to work in a co-ordinated fashion, and there isn't a way to easily co-ordinate3) people would 'help' with execution of an idea/project, but don't want to 'lead'.  Without leadership, it won't get started.I don't see how S3052's idea needs to infringe on the free-wheeling atmosphere of the bitcoin community.  It is simply a separate mechanism to execute on some ideas to (hopefully) move bitcoin forward.  Nobody has to participate, and this structure would not have any 'control' over bitcoin development.People who choose to participate could commit themselves to a specific function:-technical-marketing-public relations/promotion-idea vettingetc.Initial steps could include:-defining a mission. For example: "Team BTC exists to promote the use of Bitcoins in the world economy"-gathering a list of people who are committed to this mission and want to contribute labour, money, ideas-gather a list of the skillsets from the volunteers-strike a nominating committee to find candidates for the leadership council-hold elections-determine functional heads-select a web platform to manage the community and it's projects-start accepting suggestions/ideas from the wider membership-vet the ideas and prioritize (these could even be voted on)-get to work! Isn't there an eBay-type site somewhere for this sort of thing?  If there isn't, shouldn't there be??? No kidding!!!!  I don't see it as competition for offer-based systems like superrewards.  But there are lots of people who can't be bothered earning virtual currency by filling out surveys etc.Yes, FB points is a threat.  As I understand it FB takes a big slice of the pie though.  That is where bitcoin has the advantage from a developer's perspective.  Assuming FB doesn't ban all competitors.Who knows how long it will take FB to do that though.  In the meantime, much exposure could be gained for bitcoin. I'm pretty new around here, so I'm not sure what you mean by bitcoind server.  Can you point me to a explanation of that? Why can't we subscribe to threads on this forum?  Or am I just not seeing the option? Would it be technically possible to build a forum plugin for various forum software that would permit the transferring/receiving of bitcoins?  I'm thinking of a glorified thank you mod.  Currently most forum software has a plugin that allows one forum user to 'thank' another user.  Sometimes they can earn points from these 'thank-yous'.  I'm wondering if a plugin could be built that allows the thanker to donate a bitcoin or two to the thankee in as simple a manner as possible. So it is possible to create a Facebook developer plugin that could interface with mtgox so that a Facebook user would never have to install Bitcoin on their desktop?  It could function just like a PayPal transfer? mtgox can you give us a bit more information?  Were these chargebacks related mostly to trades in the last 3 days?  Were these brand new account holders?  Did they 'get away' with their bitcoins, or will you be able to repossess them because they are still on your server? I agree with your prognosis S3052, but I hope you've got those bitcoins in the bank now at 6 cents in case they skyrocket to $10 and the Dow only hits 1,005! There is a discussion about bitcoin going on at this forum:http://www.juot.net/forums/showthread.php?p=884284#post884284 Now this is what I call a chart!Sort of what the DJIA will look like next month except in reverse.   I discovered the same thing when I posted about bitcoin at freedominion.ca.  This is a forum devoted to conservative and libertarian discussion, yet the response I got regarding bitcoin was pretty dismal.Then I was going to post a chart of the recent trading action at forexfactory.com to see if any of the fx traders would find it interesting but I don't have enough vouchers to start a thread.  If any of you guys are active on forexfactory you might want to start something.The best way to go about introducing bitcoin to a layman probably isn't to talk about the Federal Reserve, the Treasury and fiat currency inflation, nor is it to talk about anonymity when buying online, and for sure it isn't to talk about how you can generate a whopping 50 bitcoin by letting your PC run 24/7 for 12 weeks.  Probably the best way is to talk about it's utility for micropayments.  That something anyone who has bought a virtual good on a social network understands.  Likewise, anyone who wants to monetize their meager blog of 20 visitors/day will 'get it'.  At least that's my hypothesis. If this article is accurate (not a given, since the author linked 9/11 to the creation of In-Q-Tel in 1999) then Peter Thiel might be very interested and supportive of Bitcoin on multiple levels.http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2008/jan/14/facebook This is a terrific article.  It was my introduction to Bitcoin when I read it a couple weeks ago in the Elliott Wave Theorist.
I say hopefully he does it, and the sooner the better.  That way we can all pick up lots of bitcoins very, very cheap.With a maximum of only 21 million in circulation no one will ever be able to do a 'helicopter Ben'.  Either bitcoins are going to catch on and their value is going to skyrocket to the moon, or they will wither on the vine.  Somebody artificially holding, buying or selling bitcoins won't be able to manipulate their value in the long term.Everyone holding bitcoins has an incentive to spread the word far and wide, or build websites that use bitcoins, or build opensource products like CMS store plugins or social media plugins that use bitcoins because the greater the use of bitcoins, the more your holdings of bitcoins increase in value. No, I don't think so.  That would be a violation of Facebook TOS as I understand it.This is simply another place to spend your BTC, and a pretty effective implementation he's done too.  If only we could get all app developers to do it. I don't know what you mean by 'go backward'.  Do you mean after you have uncovered a square?  No, once the mine goes off you're done. Its there.  When you start to play the game (click on a square), you will be taken to a screen to place a bet.  On that screen you can buy more minesweeper 'money' with BTC. It's called Minesweeper.  Try this link: http://apps.facebook.com/sweepmines/ One small thing that could be done right now by everyone is:Install this Facebook game http://www.facebook.com/#!/apps/application.php?id=157118501301&ref=ts which is also listed in the bitcoin.org trade directory http://www.bitcoin.org/trade.The game accepts bitcoins in payment.Invite 10 different Facebook friends to install the game everyday for a week.Its free, fast and takes almost no effort.  And who knows, it may go viral and all of a sudden everyone will be asking 'what are these bitcoins?'Just be warned, I found the game addictive. Right, so there is a point in your example somewhere between $1 million and $100 million where the theatre owner and the film producer can come to agreement.  Some point where it is feasible to take the movie and risk it getting out in the world and duplicated for free, and some point where the theatre operator can make money showing the movie even if he has to pay the fine.The point is, somewhere along the line somebody is going to have to violate a contract in order to have the movie available for 'free'.  Either the theatre owner is going to start making copies, or a person who viewed the film, or an employee of the theater.  In a society of all libertarians, someone is going to have to violate libertarian principles in order to supply a free movie.Therefore it does not make sense for present-day libertarians to advocate piracy, or using bitcoins to facilitate piracy, in the pursuit of libertarian goals.  At least not in the context of the present discussion around movies.  Maybe things are different regarding software, drug patents etc.At no point am I saying that if A and B create a contract, C is somehow obligated to follow the contract.  I am just saying that for a large number of scenarios A and B can create a contract in such a way that the likelihood of C "somehow" acquiring the IP for free is very low.  Or at least B will have to compensate A in such a way that even if C gains access, A won't care. But how can he 'destroy' my bitcoins?  How are bitcoins 'real' property anymore than the music on a Celine Dion CD?  That's what I don't understand.  Aren't bitcoins 'artifically' scarce? So are the bitcoins in my wallet real property? Sure, but you can make the penalties for violating the party in agreement so onerous that they would never get into the hands of third parties.For example.  I make a movie.  I license showing of the movie exclusively to theatre chain XYZ.  Since XYZ has exclusive distribution it would therefore be necessarily true that any copies of my movie that find their way into the public realm would necessarily have come via XYZ.  XYZ will therefore make sure nobody enters the theatre with a Sony Handycam.  They will also ensure their staff do not remove copies of the movie when they end their shift.Now this doesn't prevent someone from making their own version of the same plotline.  But really, practically speaking, does anyone care if they do?  No one is going to come over to my house to watch a homemade version of Avatar.Likewise, if Justin Bieber sells his latest masterpiece on CD with the stipulation you are only buying the right to listen to the music, not reproduce it, then even if a third party hears "Baby Baby" and makes their own version, would anybody actually care to listen to this inferior version of the timeless classic?Yes, personal contracts cannot duplicate IP law exactly, but where the bulk of internet file sharing is concerned (music and video) it would have the same practical effect.    Exactly.  And such contracts could be structured in such a way as to have almost the same practical effect as IP enforcement.  Which makes me suspect that arguments in favor of evading IP laws are as much about getting free music and free movies as they are about consistent libertarianism.  But I'm still learning.However the costs of real property rights enforcement are also socialized, while the benefits are realized by the few (or the particular).With some of these European countries it's a race between their birthrate and their culture to see which will destroy their society first. This is new thinking for me.  I'm just reading through em3rgentOrdr's recommended "Against Intellectual Property".So in the context of this discussion, how do you define "real property"? Maybe I'm not understanding this completely, but it sounds vaguely to me that the suggestion is to use a 'rabid libertarian' tool to facilitate violation of intellectual property rights.  I'm not being sarcastic, I'm just looking for clarification. They will default on their promises.  That is why you either want to have your cash in your mattress, or in a very strong bank.Or, most cynically, put your money in a very weak bank.  If the banks start going down, you want yours to go down first when they're still paying on the 'insurance'. Hummm, you're causing me to pause and ponder this a little more.  Though for me the biggest selling points of Bitcoin are the virtually free micro-payment angle and the built-in inflation protection rather than the implied anonymity.  Maybe we need to have a more methodical approach to 'spreading the word'.  Maybe this is why the word hasn't spread further already? I think residents of Zimbabwe would have a special, natural insight into the advantages of Bitcoin. I agree about eating hot potatoes (that's a new one I hadn't heard before), if we can make it happen.  I suggested two months for a target date just because I figured it would take that long to find a large number of Bitcoin supporters to make it happen.Is there any value in doing media releases?  Has there ever been a full court press on getting Bitcoin noticed by the mainstream tech media?  A mention in Fast Company or Wired would certainly go a long way.  In the Bitcoin community, are there people like yourself with PR experience and connections that could be leveraged to get the word out both about "Bitcoin Day" and Bitcoin in general?  (Pardon me if all this has been tried before, I'm very new here).Also enlisting the support of various libertarian/hard money institutes and some reliable newsletter writers (I first heard about Bitcoin through Elliott Wave International last Friday) to promote Bitcoin Day would help.Just a quick note for those of you who don't use Facebook or spend very little time there, just be aware that there are more than 500 million people on Facebook, half of which check their account at least every second day.  If you've seen the Facebook Newsfeed in action, you understand the power of publicity on Facebook.  Facebook is the second most trafficked site on the planet, and for one month this spring actually outpaced Google (according to Alexa). Very nice... worked smoothly.  Keep the change.  Hummm, what are some significant dates in the history of Bitcoin?  We could mark one of those anniversaries.Or maybe December 23, since December 23, 1913 is the day the Federal Reserve Act was enacted. I would say a date around 2 months from now: long enough to get organized, but not so far out that people lose interest. How about we organize a Facebook Bomb like Mises did: http://blog.mises.org/10552/facebook-bomb/We set a day where we all agree to promote Bitcoin to our Facebook friends by:1) setting our status to something like "The Future of Money: http://www.bitcoin.org"2) join the Bitcoin Facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/pages/Bitcoin-P2P-Cryptocurrency/1344667632566503) invite our friends to also join the pageThere must be 100 bitcoin users on Facebook.  If we each average 120 friends (which seems like a low estimate) that would get the message out to 12,000 people...for free.Any takers?
